Interlude – Erin


These days, you didn’t have to wake up at dawn to avoid accidentally rousing her. But there was still a trick to it, and the trick was to not get…emotional.

Which was hard, in a way. Because if you were waking up early, it was to talk about her, and the moment you felt a tiny bit sad, she’d start to wake up. But it also meant you couldn’t be grumpy about the hour or stub a toe.

There was a trick to keeping yourself feeling neutral. Not empty, but just zen. And Ulvama had to draw on her training from the Molten Stones tribe to keep her in that mode. Training from when she hadn’t been sure if she’d be a [Witch] or another kind of spellcaster.

It was seven o’clock, and it wasn’t hard to wake up at that hour, even if she liked to lie abed and pretended to sleep when Erin got up. The Hobgoblin sat up in the tent on the back of the slumbering Corumdon Beetle, and this time, she avoided the ball of fur slumbering to her right. Across from her, Erin was sleeping with Matha and Mera in cots on the other four corners of the tent woven out of fresh leaves and blades of grass.

The [Angry Druid], Vrilla, had enchanted it all for them as a parting gift when they’d left the village of Dretonamis. Vrilla hadn’t made much of it at first beyond scolding Bowom to ‘behave’, but then she’d cupped his head in her hands and given the surprised [Mad Doctor] a kiss on the lips.

Like someone gave to someone they’d never see again. Then, Ulvama had known they were doing a terrible thing, encouraging so many Fraerlings to leave their homes. They’d brought death with them after all despite their best intentions.

It made the [Shaman] upset. But the Fraerlings just laughed at her. They were leaving home, chasing an adventure.

‘Better to be alive than pretending it.’ That was Bowom’s turn of phrase. And he was one of the Fraerlings who got up early like this.

Not Matha or Mera. They’d tried including the brawling duo, but Mera had about as much control over her emotions as the Battle Hamster. Ulvama edged around him, taking care not to step on him. One wrong foot and he’d rouse everyone in the convoy, not just Erin.

She had to hop off of the Corumdon Beetle’s back after that, down to the tents below. Almost everyone was asleep; they’d been marching or riding all day, and the giant Aphids were also napping.

Only a few Fraerlings didn’t camp with some sort of protective covering. One of them was Eurise, who could lie down wherever he wanted, bereft of a blanket, and sleep. He was already waiting for her as Bowom rolled out of his tents. Literally rolled…he grinned, but suppressed his own sense of amusement, which suggested he wasn’t actually that amused, just trying to get Ulvama to crack.

She waved at them, and the trio were joined by Roja, one of the [Explorers] who’d agreed to go just as far as the nearest Fraerling city to give everyone an escort. Like Eurise, she couldn’t abandon home that lightly.

In an hour, they’d all pretend to wake up. Then they’d have some mudroot tea, seasoned with nali-sticks, and get moving. Before that, they spoke. Bowom had a map out as he sat up.

“I think we’re a day away from Lemoste-Under-Cliffs. It’s not the biggest city, but it’s the closest. They should have a suite of facilities far beyond what we have in our villages, at least. If there’s no better [Healer], I’ll take my best shot at her the moment we get in. They are expecting us, right, Eurise?”

The Level 50+ [Explorer] shrugged, scratching at his spidersilk vest. He wasn’t openly concerned, but then, Ulvama couldn’t always read his steady face. He had seen worse than this, so he leaked no emotions out.

“I sent a tamed Dragonfly, but we’ve got no one I’d risk on the flight itself. It didn’t come back. Could be they sent it on to another destination or it got eaten.”

Bowom grunted.

“Well, they’ll have decent [Alchemists]. But I do think we need a Level 50+ one, which I don’t recall there being one in Lemoste. A city with everything we could ask for and a Last Box would be…Konor Amongst Pines. Have I mentioned how much I hate our naming conventions yet?”

Ulvama thought it was very Goblin-like, but she just nodded. Roja was having the hardest time keeping level emotionally. Ulvama cast a little spell of [Calm], and the [Explorer] nodded at her.

“It’s nearly eight o’clock these days. How fast is it getting worse, Bowom? Give us a real answer.”

The [Mad Doctor] scratched at his head.

“It’s a miracle she survived that much magical radiation. But again, I doubted it was that to begin with. It’s not my field; I can stitch limbs onto people, but the soul…that one’s hard. How bad was she coughing, Ulvama?”

“Lots in the night sometimes. For thirty minutes? Then she’d stop. Four times?”

Bowom tugged on his chin, thinking.

“Well, we don’t have enough data. Keep listening. If she stops breathing or goes low-air again, we’ll consider that another sign her deterioration is accelerating. My guess is that it’ll be a host of symptoms until total bodily failure.”

No one reacted. Ulvama kept her emotions in her chest. First the damage from the battle at sea, now this.

“What about closing the crack-thing? That’s easiest.”

Bowom shook his head as Roja demanded that.

“Good way to get a real horror. Think, Roja. If I split you open and sewed an ant into your chest, what would happen? Maybe it stabilizes you. Maybe you reject it. Worst case is that you accept it and it starts taking over. Or you’re just not the person you were before the operation.”

Silence. Eurise spat onto the ground; he’d been chewing on a bit of seed.

“We’re reaching Lemoste today. I could run ahead or have Zemmy or Mera do it if you need it, Bowom.”

The [Mad Doctor] was cool as could be, and not for the first time, Ulvama was grateful he had decided to come on their trip. Without him, it would be just her, and she couldn’t help Erin.

She wasn’t…the right level. It was tearing her up a bit, and she could tell because there was a flicker of wakefulness from her charms. Erin was getting up. Eurise’s eyes flicked to Ulvama, but he just nodded, and Bowom murmured.

“Don’t agitate the patient. Every time she gets upset, she gets worse. Alright, she’s up? Keep her from using her fire or craft. The color-Skills seem to be just f—”

He stopped talking.

They all did. Ulvama’s eyes grew wide, and she turned, but then she halted. Eurise stopped chewing on his mouthful of seeds. He ruffled a hand through his hair, then nodded.

“That’s good. New. She’s mending.”

“You can’t make a medical diagnosis; I’m the [Mad Doctor] here!”

Bowom snapped at him. He cleared his throat, and his bug-leg tapped its foot on the ground several times. He squinted at the tent.

“Yep. That’s positive. But what was the trigger? Did she level? Has to be—”

“You’re sure?”

Roja gave the two Fraerling men a suspicious glance, but Eurise just gestured at Ulvama.

“I was wondering—I thought maybe because they were Tallfolk, it was different. But it’s just what I thought. Erin’s no [Warrior]. Nor is she tough enough for her level. This is what was missing.”

Ulvama said nothing at all. She just blinked, and it washed over her. A feeling emanating from the tent, waking the other Fraerlings and even the beetle, who lurched to his feet blearily.

It wasn’t an aura. But it was coming from Erin. It felt like…that tingle you got when a lightning spell passed too close by you, but in a good way. Like the energy from rest, when you sprang out of bed, coming like a beacon from a lighthouse. Eurise nodded.

“We’re going to have to get her to turn that off. Used to be I didn’t know how either. I had to fight everything in a mile’s radius.”

“What, can old Zinni do that too?”

Eurise nodded at Roja.

“Sure can. Remember when her herd came calling? That feeling like a stampede’s bearing down on you? Mostly, she just uses it to keep her animals reasonable. If you ever hit 50, you’ll probably get kicked out of the village before your presence makes everyone go running off on expeditions.”

He nudged Roja, and the [Explorer] turned and glanced at Ulvama. The Hobgoblin was smiling again. But her eyes were slightly tearful as the sun rose.

Ulvama didn’t know how or why. Bowom just shook his head.

“Terrible [Innkeeper]. Making us all worry and the nice Goblin cry. Okay, investigation mode. Don’t miss anything. This is only circumstantial evidence…”

But he felt it too. When Ulvama climbed back on the Corumdon Beetle’s back, she saw a slightly sweat-soaked [Innkeeper] rubbing at her back. Erin Solstice pushed her hair out of her face and coughed once into a fist. But then she smiled.

“Hey, Ulvama. I dunno what happened, but I’m feeling better. Great, actually.”

The Hobgoblin managed to raise her brows skeptically.

“You sure? All I see is a sweaty [Innkeeper].”

Erin sniffed under one armpit and recoiled.

“Pleh! Gross! But I do feel better. See?”

She got up as Matha sat up sleepily, and Mera jumped out of bed in a flying kick. The Battle Hamster kicked her in the face, and she landed, swearing. Erin leapt off her bed, or tried to. She planted her legs, and Ulvama saw her shoot up—hit the ceiling of the tent—and punch through the top.

“Aaaaaah! What the—”

The Hobgoblin gazed up as the [Innkeeper] flew into the air. Mera and the Battle Hamster stopped punching each other, and then Ulvama did grin once.

“I’m falling! I’m falling! Oh wait, it’s not gonna h—”

Erin hit the Corumdon Beetle’s shell with her head, bounced off, and she crashed into the campfire, scattering little embers. Then the Beetle stepped on her by accident.

But she was just fine.

Fantastic.



——



“Hey, Ulvama, Erin’s looking great, isn’t she? Seedwrap sandwich?”

Matha commented as they were stopping for midday lunch. They were watching Erin squaring off with Zemmy and Mera. Ulvama took the sandwich as the Fraerling sat right next to her.

“Mm. Better.”

Matha energetically munched on the mashed seeds combined with bits of fruit and nut-berry to make a paste that you wrapped an edible leaf or dough around. It was Fraerling travel food and not the best, but hardly tasteless. She leaned casually against Ulvama. The Hobgoblin didn’t pay attention.

“I’m feeling great! Just try kicking me this time, Zemmy! Just not in the face!”

The [Innkeeper] was hopping from foot to foot and making beckoning motions—right until Zemmy launched into a flying [Double Kick]. Erin blocked the first one, but the second knocked her down. She was getting up as Fraerlings laughed or cheered. Zemmy tried to stomp on her when Mera tackled him from the side.

It was seeming like the regular free-for-all with Erin and the two [Brawlers]. They were evenly matched. Or no…Ulvama thought Erin was worse than the Level 40 [Brawlers]. In an actual fight, they’d kick her around unless she used her flames or witchcraft on them, and they were wise to her tricks these days. She was still an [Innkeeper], and they were dedicated combat classes.

So she was probably the weakest one, but it was still fairly even until…Erin was running away from Mera, who was on the offensive, when it happened. Her legs seemed to speed up, and her feet began leaving tracks in the ground, flinging dirt around.

“Ooh, her Galas is activating.”

Matha shaded her eyes, then ducked a clod of dirt that Erin had accidentally kicked at her. The [Innkeeper] was suddenly outpacing the swearing Mera, and she whirled.

“[Relc Kick]!”

She missed as Mera jumped over the simple stomach-kick, but Erin wasn’t done. She spun, then launched herself off the ground in a spinning kick towards Zemmy. He blocked it and swept her other leg.

“She’s going Galas! Get her, Mera!”

The two [Brawlers] teamed up, trying to keep Erin from getting to her feet. She cursed and kicked at them, and Ulvama nodded.

So far, the Galas muscles seemed to be only activating in Erin’s legs. They weren’t that strong according to Eurise, but the fact Erin had any meant that she’d kick into a kind of second gear after she warmed up. When she was ‘feeling cool’, in Erin’s own words, she could perform acts of strength that were ridiculous to Ulvama.

And it seemed…Erin’s legs were activating a lot faster. She kicked Zemmy off her, and he bounced off the Corumdon Beetle’s shell. Then she was swinging energetically at Mera.

“Aha! Got you! Got—”

Mera tossed a handful of sand in her face, and Erin swallowed half of it. The ensuing scrap ended up with Erin tapping her hand on the ground, her arm in a pin.

“Argh! I thought for sure I’d be super strong. What’s going on?”

She leapt up, peeved. Mera was feeling a tooth Erin had punched.

“I dunno, Erin. You’re not that much better at fighting, even if your legs went off sooner.”

“What, you’re sure? Not even a bit?”

The [Innkeeper] was crestfallen. Mera nodded, then thumped her own chest.

“On the other hand, I’m feeling great. I was all grumpy because you kept coughing in your sleep last night, but now it’s like I had that coffee stuff you pulled from your Skill! Right, Zemmy?”

“That’s right! What is it, your aura?”

Erin twisted around as if trying to see something.

“No. I don’t feel it. Well, I do feel good, but I don’t feel…huh. Darn, I wish I could sense whatever it is you do. It sounds cool. Hey, Ulvama. Hey, you. What’s lunch?”

She bounded over, and Matha waved her wrap at Erin.

“Seedwraps again. Want the rest of mine, Erin? I’ll get another.”

“Uh. I’ll get my own.”

Erin sat down, and Matha leapt up to get her one anyways. Ulvama poked at her hair, which was covered in dirt.

“You’re gross and sweaty now. Go away.”

“Hey! I don’t smell that bad do—ugh. Anyone got soap?”

Ulvama twiddled her fingers, and a rain of water appeared and doused Erin. Spluttering, the [Innkeeper] scrubbed at her head until she was more clean, then Matha handed her a wrap.

“Thanks…Matha.”

“No problem! So, didja figure out how you got better? Hey!”

The ‘hey’ was because the Battle Hamster had parked himself next to Ulvama with Matha’s seedwrap. She tried to push him aside and reclaim her food, but he just bit at her—so she slunk around to Erin’s other side and tried to scootch onto the twig they were sitting on. Erin sighed, but she just turned to Ulvama.

“No levels. No magic—I was wondering if it was something I ate?”

Ulvama was wondering if Bowom had slipped something into Erin’s food, too. But she just chewed on her wrap.

“You’re better if you’re better. Just say when you get worse.”

“Sure…but this feels pretty permanent. I mean, I dunno, I can tell I’ve still got a crack, but it’s not like I’m splitting apart. It’s more stable.”

Erin poked at her chest gingerly, then glanced up and hurriedly added.

“Not that I was splitting apart, but—it’s a lot better. So I guess I’m on the mend! Told you I’d be fine.”

She gave Ulvama a smile that was trying a bit too hard, but the [Shaman] just glanced at Bowom. He gave her two tentative thumbs up.

Why, no one knew, not even Erin. But the convoy was all smiles, younger Fraerlings and older ones returning to their adventure. To Lemoste-Under-Cliffs and beyond!



——



“Oh, that’s not good.”

When Bowom said that, everyone reached for a weapon. But he was merely the first to see it, standing on the Corumdon Beetle’s head as they rounded a huge cliffside—which was really a giant rock—and came to the actual cliff of Lemoste-Under-Cliffs, the Fraerling City.

An ancient tree petrified into stone, leaning against the cliffs that gave the city its name. A secretive Fraerling city, the first that Erin and Ulvama had ever seen in person. Only, it wasn’t so hidden right now.

Ulvama stirred as Matha’s three-stringed guitar playing came to a strangled stop. The former [Raider] rose to her feet, and she was speechless as color drained from her face. Eurise took one look at the city and snapped.

“Erin, Roja, stay with the convoy! I’m heading in.”

He was a blur already. Ulvama just gazed at the huge shards of broken stone lying on the ground. Then the colorful, exposed city that was visible from its wrecked walls. Bowom muttered.

“[Adjust Eyes]…well, they’re not all dead. I see lots of movement. Pyres? That’s either whatever attacked them or we’re walking into a real problem. Slow the caravan!”

“Shouldn’t we go after Eurise?”

Someone demanded. Zemmy was ready to run, but Bowom shouted back.

“Not until we know what the problem is! Hold it! I said hold it—”

A dozen Fraerlings on the backs of Aphids were bounding forwards to see more. They only halted when Erin put two fingers in her mouth and whistled. Since she utterly failed at that, Ulvama did it for her.

The Fraerlings halted and turned—Erin stood up and beckoned.

“Back, everyone! Zemmy, Mera, get over here! You heard Eurise!”

The two [Brawlers] hesitated—then reversed direction. Again, Ulvama glanced at Erin. It wasn’t quite her aura. But her voice had that ringing command in it.

Just as well. By the time they’d reformed, the group was already noticed. Eurise had halted in the distance, a tiny speck, but the city of Lemoste-Under-Cliffs was far from a ruin. The proof of that was a giant frame appearing in the air with the face of a Tallguard Fraerling with a mithril helmet and a scar across his face. He shouted.

“Halt where you are, travellers! Show us your eyes! Keep approaching and you will be cast upon!”

Ulvama saw his eyes flicker to her and widen.

“We’ve got more infec—wait, green skin? Drop the illusions! Is that some kind of polymorphing…? Every one of you, show me your eyes!”

The Fraerlings hesitated, but then complied. Ulvama held her own eyes open as the Fraerling inspected them all. Bowom called out.

“What kind of plague or malady are we dealing with here? We’re from Dretonamis! That’s Eurise the Explorer up there! We should be expected?”

The Fraerling Tallguard blinked, then cursed.

“Dretonamis? You look clear—what’s with her?”

He jabbed a finger at Ulvama, and Bowom glanced sideways.

“Her? Shrunk Goblin.”

“Shrunk—is this some kind of joke? If it’s not, come on through! So long as you’re not bringing actual Goblin Tallfolk…”

The convoy moved forwards slowly, passing by ashy cairns over churned earth. There were huge craters in it, and Ulvama felt her skin crawling as she stared at the city ahead. But the more she looked, the more intact it felt. She’d seen Paeth’s destruction. Certainly, the Fraerlings who were already scanning Eurise seemed numerous enough.

They took an extra fifteen minutes on Ulvama and Erin, but they were willing to chat. The Tallguard in command was Commander Leafin. His first words to Eurise and Bowom were ominous.

“If you’re searching for support, we can’t send it. We will take your village in if you’ve evacuated it. Tell me you weren’t overrun. We threw a warning back via your Dragonfly, but it didn’t seem like you were in the path of the swarms.”

Roja shook her head.

“It never made it back. What happened? We never heard a call for help!”

Commander Leafin cursed.

“We would have sent messages, but our Farspeaker passed. Every [Mage] not conscripted for battle has been running cloaking and barrier spells nonstop, or just casting [Restoration]. Listen, the Architects will want to talk to you when they can, but we could use anyone over Level 40 who’s willing to fight.”

“We’ve got several combat-classes. Fight what?”

Eurise gestured at Zemmy and Mera, but not at Erin. The Tallguard gave him an expression of envy and incredulity.

“The ants.”

There was a beat before Erin began cursing.



——



One of the Architects, Vision Tiregal, was a young Fraerling. Tallguard. Newly elected to his post. He wasn’t the highest-ranked, but he had, apparently, won the election that had occurred last week.

“The city called for it after three of our Architects perished. Lemoste must rebuild far stronger than before. I am calling for Fraerling villages to relocate nearer to us if they are not heavily entrenched like Dretonamis—frankly, I hope you will help us stay and clear out the rest of the hives, Eurise.”

The [Explorer] was walking around the outside of the opened Fraerling city, staring up at the buildings and floors within. It looked like an ant nest as well, albeit far more advanced, which made their foes all the more ironic.

“Of course I will. But how did they ever get through the walls? We saw one of those magical ants—they’re the ones, right?”

Vision Tiregal nodded.

“The Dyed Lands. We heard warnings from Tallguard outposts, but we never thought we’d run into more than a handful of monsters. The ants seem to have exited en-masse and cut a path all the way here. Not even the Great Companies were stopping them…they might have been embattled. We don’t know, only that this was where they honed in on. It could be they sensed our magical signature despite our Allotment falling within range or something else—”

“Excuse me, but I’ve seen Fraerlings fight. How did they break into the city? Don’t you have all kinds of magic and stuff? We killed one of those queens, and they were deadly, but…”

Erin interrupted. She gestured at the city and the Fraerlings on guard-duty, who were armed with crossbows and wands and who had sightlines across the entire cleared fields on anything coming their way.

They’d already seen Lemoste shooting down an opportunistic bird with a long-range fireball spell that had blown off its head. A team of Fraerlings was now going to pick up the corpse, food being one of the things the city needed at the moment. But this was almost like a siege.

Tiregal glanced at Erin, but her Human-ness seemed unremarkable at the moment. Ulvama he was peering at, but he replied in a low voice.

“We had only three individuals above Level 50 in the city when they attacked. Only one combat-adjacent. Over 48 above Level 40, but…we’ve killed 56 of the magical ant queens so far. We think the swarm is mostly broken, but they just overwhelmed our defenses with sheer numbers. We were vaporizing them with [Barrier of Eradication] spells tuned to insects, and they just kept coming until we ran out of mana.”

Fifty-six queens? Erin and Ulvama looked at each other as the gravity of Lemoste’s war sunk in. Eurise simply grimaced.

“You should have sent for us. I’m willing to headhunt the rest of the queens if you can pinpoint them.”

Architect Tiregal gave Eurise a weary smile and nod.

“It’s been four days of fighting, Explorer. You’d have missed the worst of it anyways, and if your village was next—we were trying to lure them away from us the entire time. Not again. The first thing I want to do is re-establish our Crelerbane Armor forces. However, we have to find or buy the Adamantium…Oierdressql had Crelerbane Armor and it still fell. Paeth and Oierdressql were wake-up calls, but we didn’t heed them. You’re welcome to our city, such as it is, but anything you can contribute is welcome.”

“We’ll get to fighting, then. Zemmy and Mera are Level 40+, and Roja is as well. Alright, anyone willing to fight, step up!”

Eurise shouted, and Fraerlings abandoned their convoy. Bowom cracked his fingers.

“I’m Bowom. If you have injured or people missing limbs who don’t mind new ones, sign me up.”

Erin was turning.

“I can go with you, Eurise. And Ulvama—”

She hesitated. Ulvama hadn’t raised her hand. The thought of fighting another sea of insects made her shudder. Eurise glanced at her, then pointed.

“You’re still not necessarily well, Erin. Stick with Ulvama. Matha, you’re in charge of these two. Keep them out of trouble.”

“Got it, Eurise!”

She saluted, and the Fraerling man rubbed at his chin.

“We could use the Beetle and Hamster if they’re willing. We’ll keep them out of harm’s way, but a flier and a Battle Hammie could be useful.”

The Battle Hamster was already in line with Zemmy and Mera, and so the Human and Goblin saw the Corumdon Beetle’s tent removed. They stood there as Vision Tiregal gave them directions to the forces coordinating the counter-offensive.

Commander Leafin was clearly relieved to be sending Eurise to the forces on the offensive, but before he dashed off to send word, he stopped them all.

“The worst part about the ants isn’t just their numbers or how much damage they can do with their pincers. It’s the Queens. If you see a Fraerling out there, make ‘em show you their eyes. The Queens…possess Fraerlings they capture. It’s easy to tell, mostly, and they can be saved. Just kill the Queen. But until then, they’ll act as if they’re on the ants’ side. Don’t let your guard down.”

Erin felt a chill run up and down her spine. She rubbed at her chest and remembered the queen reaching for her when they had fought. Ulvama was looking at her, and any inclination Erin had had to insist on fighting was gone.

Eurise just nodded.

“I’ve seen that kind of thing before. I don’t plan on letting them get to me. We’ll strike every queen ant we find. Got any fliers?”

“Yes, and levitation spells if not that.”

“Works for me. Drop and chop.”

He projected a weary and grim competence that had everyone looking at him as a leader. Erin felt like he could have rallied everyone here if he needed to. So, that was a Level 50 [Warrior] holding nothing back. She wondered…what Saliss was like when he really got mad.

She’d never seen it. Not even with the Wyverns.

At any rate, she and Ulvama had to ask more questions of Tiregal about the ant queens. He was frank.

“Most of our survivors are going through intensive treatment to make sure they’re not still influenced, but their basic summary was akin to hypnosis or being…absorbed into the ant swarms once they were brought before a queen ant. Some power of theirs—again, from the Dyed Lands. These are the most deadly ants I’ve ever heard of in the entire world. Magical army ants don’t even come close.”

For all that, the Hobgoblin felt like the situation was under control—the Fraerlings being on the offensive and unwilling to let the ants regroup seemed to mean that unless there was another huge wave of them coming, most of the magical ant swarms were reduced. Though they might still be horrific threats on their own…she feared they might become an apex predator group in this region, but that was a reality the city would have to deal with as it happened.

Only when Commander Leafin came back did Ulvama get worried.

Because three dozen armed Tallguard were with him as he whispered to Tiregal. The Vision looked apologetically at Bowom.

“I’m afraid we have a problem. We’ll have to detain you for now. You are under arrest.”

“What?”

Erin shielded Ulvama with one hand, and her eyes glinted dangerously. Leafin glanced at her.

“Level 50.”

The Fraerlings around her tensed, and Bowom spluttered.

“This is outrageous! We’re all trying to help here! Miss Erin and Miss Ulvama were trusted by three Fraerling villages and their protectors! I object! How dare you, sir!”

He jabbed a finger at Vision Tiregal, and the young Fraerling man handed him something. Bowom snatched it, unrolled what looked like an old scroll, and hesitated.

“Ah.”

“Bowom the Splicer, you are under arrest for crimes of medical malpractice in three cities and sixteen villages. Given the circumstances, we might actually need your help…the Architects are waiting for an interview. Will you come quietly? It’s just you under arrest.”

Commander Leafin eyed Erin and Ulvama as the [Innkeeper] hesitated. Everyone eyed Bowom, and he raised a finger.

“I object! I’m the medical supervisor in charge of this dying Human and—damn, I thought those things were expired. It’s been twenty years!”

He sighed as they marched him off. Erin and Ulvama gazed at his back as he waved.

“Don’t worry, I’m sure we can sort this out! It wasn’t anything too hein—well, we’ll sort this out!”

He winked a few times, and then it was just the two of them, all their luggage, and Matha. The [Raider] spoke after a few seconds.

“Who is Bowom!?”

Nobody knew. Ulvama picked up the scroll Bowom had tossed over his shoulder and read it. After a moment, she showed Erin the list of crimes. The [Innkeeper] sucked in her breath.

“Ooh.”



——



“So, I think I could join the fighting against the queens. Burn them a bit.”

After about forty minutes of touring the city of Lemoste, Erin floated the idea past Ulvama. The [Shaman] regarded her.

“What if they do that thing where they try to take over you again?”

“…Right. Maybe not the queens?”

Do you have to fight?

Erin was restless, though. She murmured as they walked around the streets, where elevators that worked on some kind of gas propelled Fraerlings up and down. Only, half were broken because the city’s exterior had been breached, so Fraerlings were using [Lightbridge] spells or just newly-built stairs.

They had a shellshocked look. Or a determined one, like Goblins after a terrible battle. No one was able to chat; even Ulvama was only getting passing glances, not the people in Dretonamis with questions.

“This city’s so sad. I can’t believe they destroyed it. I always thought it’d be so much…cooler than home.”

Matha was the one the most shaken up by seeing the devastation. Erin and Ulvama glanced at each other. The [Shaman] leaned over.

“I feel grief. Sadness. Mostly—shock. Apparently, not many civilians died. Not like Oierdressql.”

Erin nodded tightly.

“That’s good. I sense the same thing. They’re working hard on rebuilding. It’s stressful, though. I think…didn’t the Vision tell us most of their food got eaten?”

Just like the ants to steal that. They’d swarmed over the area before retreating, so a lot of Lemoste’s goods were gone. Even so, Erin murmured.

“They’re determined, though. Poor kids are the most shocked. Like her.”

She jerked her head at Matha, and Ulvama recalled that most Fraerlings in cities wouldn’t be used to monsters at all. Unlike the villages…the [Shaman] nodded. Then she grabbed Erin’s hand so the [Innkeeper] wouldn’t run off to combat.

“You’re resting.”

“But I could help—”

“No!”

The Hobgoblin was so loud and fierce everyone turned, and she lowered her voice.

“We can help here. Okay? Somehow.”

Thus began their own part in aiding Lemoste. A harder task than it seemed.



——



Even after a battle, Lemoste was still far, far too advanced to need the things Goblins would. When Ulvama found a [Healer] with Matha’s help, they gazed up at the big building filled with magic. A weary woman came out to meet them.

“Cutting bandages? Poultices? Thank you, er, Miss. But we don’t need that. We have a [Mage] casting [Restoration] once every hour; if we need to, we’ll have the mana charge increased, but the worst of the casualties are dealt with. Unless you have any regeneration spells or Skills?”

They did not. The [Healer] shook her head.

“Hunting would be best, but the Tallguard want to avoid bringing animals or predators until we have a wall back. So you’d have to ask them. You’re from Dretonamis, right? Are you wearing a costume or did you polymorph yourself, miss? I love the magical signs.”

She gestured with a wand at Ulvama, and the Hobgoblin hesitated.

“No, I’m a Goblin. Just…smaller.”

“Oh. What?”

The [Healer] blinked, then leaned forwards.

“That’s incredible magic! I’d love to ask—but I have a shift to get back to. You wouldn’t happen to know if there’s someone who can do high-level healing amongst your group? I was told there was, but they’re not here!”

Erin cleared her throat with a hesitant smile.

“We, uh, we do have someone like that. His name is Bowom, but I think he got arrested. You wouldn’t happen to know him, would you?”

The [Healer] blinked. Then her face turned grave.

“Bowom? He’s still alive? I studied his case in school! That insane—of all the times! We might actually need him, but dead gods. Is he under lock and key? If not, we need to keep him away from the patients!”

She seemed ready to run until they assured her he’d been arrested. The [Healer] muttered.

“I have to tell our director now! Thank you—er, Miss Goblin. You two. If you can do any magic, we could use some of that!”

Then she was running off. Ulvama wondered exactly what kind of experiments these had been, but regardless, she realized her help to the city would have to be less traditional. She turned to Erin.

“We should do magic to cheer people up! Just a bit of it, you know?”

She flicked her fingers. Erin was nodding.

“Yeah, but I don’t have much happy witchcraft around. Tons of remorse, actually, but that’s not gonna cheer anyone up. And after Pallass, I don’t think just making a flame would be the best.”

Certainly not. Ulvama gestured at their packs.

“What if…we make some little happy charms? Give them out?”

She was thinking of the shellshocked Fraerling children. Someone had to; it was her job, even if this wasn’t her place. Erin scratched at her head.

“What kind of charms do you give to kids? Magic balls like Mrsha has?”

Ulvama stared at her friend. Erin raised her hands defensively.

“Hey, don’t look at me like that! The Great Witches didn’t teach me kid-charms. We never got to that segment.”



——



[Shamans] were different from [Witches]. They were, by nature, more communal than [Witches], who existed around communities, but didn’t have to have them. A [Witch] could be reclusive; a [Shaman] had to have a tribe.

Ulvama’s connection to the Flooded Waters tribe was weak, so she had to draw mostly on her own mana and what she could get. Accordingly, her charms weren’t the strongest, but she showed Erin and Matha how it was done.

“For little babies, you get a bit of dust and infuse it with sleepy. Just a teensy bit so they stop waking and crying. For bigger children, a ribbon like so, see? And you tie it like this—”

She made a complicated pattern that neither Erin nor Matha could follow, and the little flower-ribbon was done.

“Then put it in child’s hair.”

“What’s that do?”

Matha scratched at her back, seeming out-of-sorts and upset. Ulvama gave her a tight-lipped smile, trying not to show her teeth.

“When children run around, a tiny bit of their energy goes—”

She waved her hands around.

“Makes people feel better.”

“Neat! How many can you make?”

Ulvama pointed down at the ground.

“Maybe…four? But if we give them out, I’ll make more!”

That was how it worked, you see. Just like how [Witches] harvested their craft to give it away, [Shamans] relied on the people around them to give them scraps of something. Hope, for instance, like when Mrsha had told Ulvama about Krshia making a ball of it to toss into the sky for Liscor’s siege. Primitive work, but the Gnoll must have had training as an actual [Shaman] to do that. It was rather impressive, actually.

The [Shaman] gathered up all the spare food they had—mostly seedwraps—and made a basket with the four charms. Then she went to give them out. Therein lay the problem.

Ulvama got…well…

A bit shy.



——



A pair of Fraerlings hard at work sawing and sanding pieces of wood were joining the reconstruction effort. They were [Woodworkers] with a unique focus: joinery. Thus, they had no nails, but were making wood carved into the correct angles to slot together and form natural connections. It would be just as strong, if not more so, than something with nails or screws, but it was far more involved and precise.

So they didn’t have time for their two children, who were about and underfoot, sometimes running to get things, but, well, distracting.

When they saw the three visitors, one looked up.

“Unless you’re here for a delivery or pickup, we can’t take orders. Everything’s for the new wall. Oh—”

He stared at the Hobgoblin hiding behind the [Innkeeper] and Matha and poking them repeatedly, then nudged the other Fraerling next to him.

“Raan. Raan, look.”

The other [Carpenter] was swearing at a blister on his palms, then noticed Ulvama. He blinked.

“What the—”

“Hello! I’m Erin, and this is Matha, a reformed [Raider], and this is Ulvama! We’re from Dretonamis! We just were coming by with some charms and food if you wanted some? We arrived and didn’t know about the, uh, battle.”

The [Innkeeper]’s smile made both Fraerlings put down their tools. Matha half-glared at Erin as she shook the first [Carpenter]’s hands.

“Very pleased to meet you. Is that a seedwrap? Ah, we can take that. Rina, Rousy—you want food?”

They turned, but their children were suddenly hiding behind the huge joists of wood they were working on. The first Fraerling, Zignem, gestured, but they were staring at Ulvama. He turned to her.

“Are you the Goblin I heard someone talking about? Tallfolk in Lemoste. It’s been an age since then.”

“Hello, yes. I’m friendly. We have charms.”

She muttered so quietly he almost couldn’t hear her. Matha took over, explaining what the charms did as the [Carpenters] chewed on their snacks, asking how Dretonamis was. When they were assured that the village was well, one sighed in relief.

“That’s good. I was worried—I’ve never seen such a thing in my life. One moment they were ringing alarms, the next I saw on the exterior vision spells the ants pouring over the cliffs. Flying down—just waves upon waves of them. We were all heading to the emergency evacuation sites, but I thought—”

His partner nudged him as one of the Fraerling kids who’d been edging closer to Matha, waving a seedwrap at them, froze up. Then they looked so afraid that he halted. Erin hesitated, glanced at Ulvama, and then smiled.

“But you made it. Now everything’s going to be okay now that Eurise the Explorer’s here. Have you heard of him?”

The children hadn’t, but they glanced up as Zignem exclaimed.

“Eurise the Explorer? He’s here? We could have used him during the siege! He could probably wipe out the rest of the queens—I’ve heard he once killed a panther with his bare hands.”

“Oh, we had this huge snuffolomonster he beat up in like three punches. Plus, we’ve got his apprentices, Zemmy and Mera! They’re great. Every time they meet, they hit each other hard as they can. They’re already over Level 40, and they’re not even, like, eighteen yet!”

Erin made some punches in the air, and the mood lightened. The [Carpenters]’ kids edged forwards as she waved something at them.

“Plus, my friend Ulvama here made some ribbons filled with lucky Goblin magic! I think it’s lucky. Might just be Goblin magic. Want one?”

“What’s it do?”

When the two Fraerlings heard what the ribbons did, they let their kids debate who wanted to wear it. Then they directed the trio down the street.

“If it’s noisy babies you want, try Eitine. Her kid’s four, but he saw some of the ants—thank you for the food.”

“…welcome.”

“Thank you for chatting!”

Erin waved at the two and then at the kids. One of them called out.

“Is she a real Goblin?”

She pointed at Ulvama and appeared nervous. Erin turned.

“That’s right. And I’m…Human. Arghablaghblegh!”

She waved her arms, and the girl stared at her. Erin lowered her arms as one of the [Carpenters] began to choke on his snack with laughter.

“You don’t look Human.”

“…What’re Humans supposed to look like then?”

Erin lowered her arms, red-faced, and the girl informed her knowingly.

“They’re supposed to be tall as trees! And go around seducing things! Like trees. That’s how you get Dryads.”

The [Innkeeper] opened her mouth, and Matha was laughing too hard to let her get a word in edgewise.



——



The second parent they came to, Miss Eitine, was better. But when she saw Ulvama, she gasped—the Hobgoblin retreated nervously as she held the basket in her hands. Erin snatched it.

“Hello! Non-seductive Human here, and Goblin! Wanna seedwrap? And a charm for crying babies?”

“…What?”

The Fraerling woman warmed to them considerably more after they explained what they had. She smiled at Ulvama.

“Thank you. I would invite you all in for refreshments, but—”

She gestured at the half-destroyed home she was trying to repair. She was an [Enchanter], but visibly tired.

“I’m sorry, I gave all my mana for the defenses. If you have any to spare, you should do the same.”

“What’s that?”

Erin blinked, and the woman pointed.

“Just down there, you see the impromptu mana circles? It’s a tank of liquid mana. Every spellcaster with non-essential spellcasting is contributing. We’re using it to fuel all the important spells.”

“We can go there! I’ve got some, though Ulvama’s a bit low right now—can we, uh, help with the house?”

The woman glanced over her shoulder.

“Oh, that? It’ll mend. People won’t…the worst part is all the soundproofing is gone. Thank you for the charm, Miss Goblin. Do you have a name?”

She smiled at Ulvama and the Hobgoblin introduced herself. The mother nodded.

“I have another family who probably has a noisy baby. Thank you for the food—we’re rationing until we have a steady foodsource. As soon as this is done, I’m sure the Tallguard will hunt down a bear, but it’s very welcome. Especially for two Tallfolk! And you.”

Matha got the coolest look of all and hesitated.

“Um. Me?”

“Yes, you. A [Raider]? Shouldn’t you be ashamed of yourself, young woman? It’s one thing to be a [Loner] or to leave your village, but to take from it? Look around you! Fraerling settlements die when we don’t support each other, and that’s the class you decided to take?”

Miss Eitine raised her voice as she gestured around the city. Matha turned beet red, and then she was trying to hide between Erin and Ulvama.

“I gave it up! We’re reformed! I’m sorry!”

She might have gotten the rough side of Eitine’s tongue, but at that moment, her son woke up. She took the dust pouch Ulvama had made.

“I’ll see to him. Thank you for your time!”

“You, uh, give it to him after he falls asleep. Maybe with a big snack and water?”

Ulvama called hesitantly, and the [Enchanter] turned, smiled, and assured her she would. Ulvama smiled back, and Erin slapped Matha on the back.

“I like her. She’s got her priorities straight, unlike Citykiller Matha over here.”

“Oh, c’mon—”

They walked outside and watched as a bunch of broken shingles floated up towards a roof slowly repairing itself. Ulvama shook her head.

“Magic. So powerful.”

“But they didn’t have that many Level 40+ people. More than I think you’d get anywhere but Pallass, but still. It feels like even Fraerling cities lack for high levels. Having one Level 50+ person per village is the big thing.”

Erin observed. Matha sniffed and folded her arms smugly.

“Fraerling villages always have the most amount of high-levels per group. Everyone knows that.”

The [Innkeeper] nodded.

“And the most people stealing from them too. Okay, let’s go help more babies fall asleep!”



——



Ulvama was perking up by the time they got to the fourth household. People weren’t that alarmed by the Goblin thing any more than they were Erin being Human. In moments like these—

A little Fraerling boy was opening the door of a rather mansion-like interior, despite the humble exterior. A bit of simple dimension-magic—the owner was a snoozing [Baker] with his mouth open in the living room armchair.

“Hey there! Are we coming at a bad time? We have some magic and a snack!”

Erin waved at the boy. He gazed up at her and shook his head.

“Da! Visitors! Da—look—”

He called, and the [Baker] barely stirred. Then the boy glanced over his shoulder, saw Ulvama waving at him and giving him a toothy smile. He froze up—and then started screaming.

“Monster! Monster!”

Ulvama’s stomach lurched. She instantly hid behind Erin, but it was too late. The [Innkeeper] was waving her hands at the boy as he ran back, climbing the stairs and falling.

“No, she’s not a monster! Don’t be racist—aw hells.”

The [Baker] was on his feet, waving a wand around in moments. He turned to his son, who was screaming his way upstairs, and then Erin and Matha. He saw Ulvama, froze, and then exclaimed.

“Richie, it’s not an actual—oh, cats. I’m so sorry, one moment—”

He raced upstairs, and Ulvama heard the screaming boy as her ears drooped. Erin turned to her.

“He didn’t blast us! Matha, you stand back. I’ll just—”

The [Baker] didn’t stop the screaming, but clattered downstairs in a hurry. He’d stowed his wand, to their relief, and he blinked at Ulvama as Erin tried to explain.

“Goblins? In Lemoste? Are there Goblin Tallfolk around?”

“No!”

He grunted.

“We could use them if they’d fight the ants. Listen, my son saw the ants, and he’s had nightmares for months about a monster with sharp teeth living under his bed. Ever since the damn silverfish got in—”

He shuddered. Proportional to a Fraerling’s body, a silverfish was big, and he’d had to beat it to death with a rolling pin after the boy had found it in his closet. As traumas went—you had to admit, that was a good reason to be terrified of monsters.

Erin was very understanding, but she kept glancing at Ulvama. The [Shaman] had closed her mouth and was trying not to scare the boy who was gazing at them from the banister upstairs, shaking with terror. His father thanked her for the charms, but when Ulvama glanced over her shoulder, she could see a pair of little heads vanishing from another house down the street.

She stared down at her feet. Erin kept smiling as she waved up at the boy. Only when the door closed did she look around and whisper.

“Bleh. I hate kids, right?”

Matha nodded.

“Absolutely. Can’t stand the little aphid shits.”

“…Lyonette has a kid. Two kids. They live in my inn.”

“Aw, c’mon. I was agreeing with you that time!”



——



“So, Ulvama…how’re we doing on the old magic front? Wanna make more charms and get back to it?”

Matha was rolling more seedwraps up, but the Hobgoblin was sitting in their tent, knees curled to her chest.

“Nn.”

She didn’t really make a ‘no’ sound, and Erin hesitated.

“Uh—you hungry, Ulvama?”

“No. No charms, Erin. Just give magic to [Mages].”

Ulvama saw Erin glance at the basket Matha was working on.

“I think that went really well. C’mon, let’s do another ribbon or something.”

“I don’t have enough magic. Too many sad Fraerlings. Not enough goodwill and happiness.”

Even after handing the charms over, it was a bad idea. Ulvama knew they should have just given mana to the defenses. Erin waved her hands at Matha.

“You sure? I think—”

“No. Too tired.”

The Hobgoblin turned to face the wall of the tents. She was tired. It was hard to pull on magic from across the world. Rags’ tribe wasn’t even her tribe, not really. She didn’t know how she’d ever had the energy to cast all that magic when they’d fought the ants.

She just needed to sleep. When Erin tried to get her to have lunch, Ulvama kicked at her leg.

“You go give magic. I go when I wake. Sleeping.”

“What about—”

“Sleeping!”

Ulvama put an aphid-wool pillow over her head. She lay there as Erin retreated and told Matha about the change in plans. The Goblin could hear them whispering.

“What about lunch? I just made more food!”

“We’ll give them out to the [Mages]. Besides, you don’t have a cooking Skill.”

“Yeah, but it’s a seedwrap.”

“Ulvama doesn’t need to eat the same food. C’mon, let’s go.”

They left, and the Hobgoblin went to sleep for a while. When she awoke, she found her stomach growling, but she sat inside for a long time. Eventually, she did have to get up because she wanted food and Erin and Matha weren’t back yet, but she dithered a long time.



——



When Ulvama came out of their tent, she had on a hood and scarf. That helped a lot; most of the children didn’t flinch when they saw her, and only Fraerlings who noticed her eyes paused.

“We, um, we get food here? Please?”

The Tallguard in line blinked at her.

“Dretonamis’ people? Sure, go on. One ration per person. If you’re getting some for a friend, just say so.”

Ulvama sidled into line. To her relief, the [Chef] at the front was too busy to even do more than glance at her eyes.

“Tomato soup and antloaf. If you really can’t stand the taste of ant, get more soup! It’s the last tomatoes we’ve got until the seeds grow.”

The soup was exceedingly fine. The antloaf…Ulvama munched it down while dipping it in the soup. She was wondering where Erin and Matha were, but the idea of searching the city…Ulvama decided to go back into the tent and take a nap.

Maybe they should have gone to fight the ants. Erin was right. Ulvama curled up in her bedroll.



——



This wasn’t really a tale about Erin Solstice. But, well, sometimes she made it about herself. She’d been trying not to, after Matha, even when she’d begun to feel…bad.

Lemoste didn’t need trouble. But—and this was a big but—Erin could tell Ulvama was unhappy. It wasn’t just noticing all the signs, but an actual feeling.

Like a string connecting her and Ulvama. Just like she could tell Matha was bored without having to see the Fraerling scratching her stomach. Erin had felt this before, but it was like she was awake.

What the heck had happened to her? Erin was walking through the city; not at random, though it seemed to Matha it was that way.

“Erin, why don’t we go back? Ulvama’s going to wake up, and this city’s depressing. Especially this part.”

“Yeah, I know. Shush, Matha.”

Erin realized they’d found themselves by a group of weary Tallguard. They appeared recently-bandaged. Their armor was messy, but they were whole. She waved at them.

“Hey, guys, can I offer you some seedwraps? What’s, uh, what’s going on?”

Most of them knew who she was. Even in disarray, a Human and Goblin attracted attention. A Tallguard with a huge scar across her nose grunted.

“Just resting up before getting back into it. Good thing you sent Eurise the Explorer. He dove into one nest and beheaded a queen. That and a trained Battle Hammy? We appreciate it.”

“Whoa, Eurise did that?”

Matha was impressed. The rest of the Tallguard—tired. Erin put the basket down and handed the food around. They weren’t starving, but clearly, they appreciated the food. A few of them eyed the simple nut-berry sandwich but took obliging bites.

“How rough is it?”

The female Tallguard replied directly to Erin as if she were a fellow Tallguard.

“Rougher than we want. Reconstruction’s going to take ages. We might be a month or more before a proper wall goes up, and even if we get the ants, there’s plenty of monsters that will be drawn to our magical signature. If we could get reinforcements or supplies, this would be easier!”

“Dretonamis could help. So will my village! They didn’t get the message—”

Matha began, and the Tallguard snorted at her. Not unkindly.

“Look, kid. We don’t need to tax villages. What we need is city support! An entire company of Crelerbane Armor would wrap up the rest of the damn ants and keep security up. Or supplies, magic, anything. We should have it already. But—Cillencreith’s gone quiet. They were always reclusive, but after this long with nothing? We thought they were just on a blackout, but they didn’t even respond to our emergency contact. So that’s more trouble. And none of our Tallguard outposts around there are reporting in.”

“Cillencreith’s the nearest city to here?”

Erin didn’t know any of the cities at all, and the Tallguard all nodded.

“Bigger than Lemoste by far. So that’s why we’re all down. If it’s two disasters or another wave of monsters from the Dyed Lands—”

The Fraerling woman took a huge bite out of her sandwich. Erin was nodding when she saw the Fraerling woman’s face change.

“What the hell is in—?”

She began unraveling her wrap, and Erin swivelled in her seat.

“Matha! What did you put in it?”

“Me? I, uh, didn’t I shuck the seed husks? Are the nuts or berries off?”

Matha raised her hands, clearly ready to run, but the Fraerling woman shook her head and took another bite. She chewed for too long, Erin felt, before swallowing.

“No…this is great. What the hell did you put in it?”

She took another bite energetically, and Erin realized the group had demolished their sandwiches. They turned to Matha, and she hesitated.

“What? That’s just day-old seeds and stuff.”

“You sure there’s not a sweetberry in here? It’s high-quality!”

“What? Can’t be.”

Someone had to toss a piece back to Matha, and she chewed it before her eyes widened.

“Hey, this is good! What the heck?”

Erin caught a piece herself, and it tasted normal to her. She said so. Everyone gaped at her as if she was crazy.

“It’s better than lunch! You got any more?”

They did not, but the Tallguard were sitting up a bit. Erin blinked at them, then turned. She glanced at her hands for a moment as Matha enthusiastically chewed on her bite. Then Erin…pulled back in that feeling that had been bubbling up with her. Matha stopped chewing, made a face.

“Wait, I got a bad bite. Now it’s just normal. Maybe I had some real fresh ingredients?”

Erin glanced at her. Then she flexed her hands again, eying the scars on her wrists. She saw one of the Tallguard gazing at her and stood.

“Well, we’ve got to get going. Hey, Matha—c’mere for a second. I’ve got an idea.”



——



The [Innkeeper] walked Matha into an alleyway not because she was worried about eavesdroppers. Just because it was thematic. Then she swung Matha into a wall.

“Wh—hey! Did I use your special ingredients or something? Take it easy, Erin!”

Matha appeared alarmed as Erin gave her a look that had the [Raider] sweating a bit. It reminded her of when she’d first met Erin, and she wasn’t actually over that. The [Thought Healer] had actually said she was disguising her trauma and she definitely shouldn’t join this trip, but what did they know?

Erin pointed a finger at Matha.

“Matha, I’m going to be straight with you.”

“Okay?”

“I don’t like you. You don’t like me.”

“Uh…you got that half right.”

Erin blinked, but disregarded that as Matha held still. She glanced over her shoulder.

“Ulvama’s depressed because she thinks she’s scaring the kids.”

“Well, she’s got a pretty awesome smile—”

“Shut it. I’ve got a plan. A stupid one, and we might get in trouble for it, but…”

The [Innkeeper] hesitated.

“I think it can work. I think it’s a good thing, if we do it right. That’s always how it goes. But I need your…help.”

She seemed like she regretted saying that, and Matha blinked.

“Hey, I’d love to help! Whaddya need? Me to steal something? Find someone? Ride something?”

“Nope. You can play the guitar, right? Or that thing’s close enough to one. Listen—”

Erin described her plan, and Matha hesitated.

“Wait. I can play a bit, but I don’t know the song.”

“I’ll hum it for you.”

“Uh—that isn’t how it works. Plus, I’m not that good!”

The [Innkeeper] was giving Matha an impatient expression.

“I’ll cover that, Matha. I can’t sing either, and we need like a drummer at least…hmm.”

Her eyes slid sideways, and she narrowed them.

“I have an idea there. You just agree to help, and we can do it, got it? Follow me. Keep an eye out for better guitars. And we’ll need a few spells for loudness and such. Easy.”

Matha caught up to her as she strode out of the alleyway, and the [Raider] had to bring some logic into the equation here.

“Erin, how is any of this easy? Listen, I used to lead the Cottontail Raiders. You can’t just execute something like what you’re talking about in a second! You need practice, lots of it, coordination, probably advertising and such—where are you gonna get a spellcaster or drummer?”

“Miss Eitine is an [Enchanter]. She can provide the magic. Even if she’s tired out, it’s a low-level spell—or she’ll know someone else who can do it.”

“Wh—okay, I didn’t think of that. But the crowds?”

“The crowds come whenever you do something good enough. As for a [Drummer]—”

They were six streets away, and Matha was jogging to keep up. Erin had made a seemingly random turn each time and gone up a flight of stairs. She walked through a back alley towards a dumpster behind a restaurant. Albeit a Fraerling one—so it was filled with worms who ate the compost and made of wood.

She flipped the lid open and spoke into it.

“Hey, Bowom, do you know how to play drums?”

Matha recoiled as a horror covered in worms rose from the dumpster. Bowom pulled one out of his ear and spoke drily.

“I am fascinated to know how you did that. And no…well, not professionally, but I’m all-in if this is something funny or covert.”

The [Innkeeper] smiled faintly. Then she turned to Matha.

“Okay, let’s rock.”

Matha was still squeaking protests as Erin dragged her into the city. It shouldn’t come together this fast! But Erin went back to the two [Carpenters], and one had a musician friend who directed her to a store who lent her the instruments she wanted because they were a fan of the Singer of Terandria they sometimes intercepted broadcasts of and no one was using them.

And they found a good spot, and Enchanter Eitine had just enough mana to work—but how? The [Innkeeper] just smiled at her when Matha objected. Bowom had to take Matha aside.

“Matha, Matha. I get what you’re doing. Wonderful straight man routine. I’d never have expected it from you. But you have to understand something.”

“What? How is she doing that, Bowom?”

The [Mad Doctor] met her eyes, cheerful, and jerked a thumb at Erin.

“She’s a Level 50 [Innkeeper], Matha. You don’t sneeze when Eurise blows the head off a monster a hundred times his size? You don’t raise your eyebrows when she does this. Here.”

He handed her a guitar. Then Erin was raising her brows at Matha.

“C’mon, we’ll do three practice-runs before we go loud. We don’t have to be perfect—I’m not gonna be.”

“Erin! I can’t!”

“What now?”

The [Innkeeper] growled, and Matha pointed at their audience, who included some of the kids like the [Carpenters]’, and at her guitar.

“I can’t play a song cold like that! I’m not good enough! I don’t even have a better class than [Strummer]!”

“I, on the other hand, am fully confident in my abilities to lay down a beat. It’s like stitching to the beat of a heart. One-and-two-and-one-and-two-and-suture-that-artery—”

Bowom cracked his knuckles as he slapped the drumsticks on the drums. Erin gazed at Matha, and the [Raider] knew that the [Innkeeper] didn’t like her. Which was fair, because Matha did have to make up for what she’d done. But for a moment, the young woman with her hair dyed magical colors and her intense stare seemed to look at Matha.

Her gaze softened, and she smiled as if she were seeing something familiar and funny. She slapped Matha on the back.

“You can do it. Ready? On…five. Is it five or three for music? Heck, I hated band class. And singing in front of everyone. Oh well.”

She took a breath, and Matha heard it tremble, but Erin was glancing down from their vantage point. The open city lay below them, and they could see from here a tiny little green tent. And Matha realized.

Oh, she’s doing this just for Ulvama. Erin winked at one of the [Carpenters] in the audience.

“One, two, three…”

Matha protested.

“Erin—”

She saw the [Innkeeper] point a finger at her without turning her head.

“[Boon of the Guest: Numbtongue]. Four, five—”



——



Ulvama was trying to doze off when she heard a strange, familiar sound from above. It sounded like—

Music? She tried to ignore it, covering her head with her pillow. She managed that for about ten minutes, but it kept getting louder.

And then she realized something was coming from above. The [Shaman]’s head rose, and her own senses, magical, picked up on something else.

“People happy? But why?”

The city was not in a mood for that. But above her, blossoming like a strange flower, there was a rain of…amusement. Excitement. Relief, even, drifting down.

Magic she could almost pull out of the air. The Hobgoblin scrambled out of her tent, and she saw, six floors up, Fraerlings moving towards one spot. That was where the din was coming from.

The Hobgoblin had no idea what was going on. But she heard the faster lyrics, the aggressive wail of a guitar—and the drums, and her eyes narrowed.

“Erin.”

She didn’t know how or why, but she knew.



——



The Hobgoblin nearly threw something when she saw the [Innkeeper] standing in the amphitheater with Matha playing a sparking guitar and Bowom on the drums.

She actually had one of her shoes in hand and was calculating the trajectory when she halted.

Ulvama had never actually seen or heard Erin…sing. She’d known the [Innkeeper] could do it, but never like this. The young woman was striding across the stage, throwing up her hands, dancing to the music.

She looked—incredibly embarrassed if you knew her, but the audience didn’t. And the [Innkeeper] had come prepared. She had somehow convinced the [Chef] to hand out the antloaf and tomato soup next to the stage she was playing on.

Possibly because she’d gotten the [Chef] to taste the food she was serving with Erin’s new power working on it. But what sold the music was the combination.

Erin’s [Singer] skills and her [Perfect Recall]—Matha playing like a legend of rock and roll on her guitar, which wailed as if it were electric—and Bowom.

The [Mad Doctor] was actually the weakest member of the band, having no musical training like the other two, but he did indeed have a very strong sense of rhythm and coordination. He was playing well enough on the drums, keeping the rhythm in line with the song—that wasn’t what was the impressive part.

At some point, the [Mad Doctor] had realized that his drumset had a more modern innovation that the creator might have actually taken from images of the Singer of Terandria’s band.

A bass drum pedal. A simple lever you stepped on to strike the drum. Simple, for a Fraerling artisan to replicate. Simple for a [Doctor] to operate. Just one thing.

Bowom’s dominant foot was his right one. Which he had lost at one point and replaced with a cockroach’s spiked leg. A cockroach’s leg, which had plenty of issues like standing perfectly vertical; it gave Bowom a lopsided slouch.

But in return, it had plenty of advantages like the ability to run at the speed of a cockroach, one of the fastest land-based creatures in this or any other world. And—the ability to hit the drum pedal so fast that you could barely even see his foot.

Bowom was doubling the beat of the song on his drumset. That he was still on-rhythm was crazy. Ulvama stared at the laughing [Mad Doctor] and the [Innkeeper] singing for the Fraerlings, who sat and ate their food, watching the strange Human.

At one point, Erin noticed Ulvama was there. They just made eye-contact, and the [Innkeeper] smiled as she lifted the wooden microphone the two [Carpenters] had helped make for her. Ulvama sat, pulling threads of the crowd around her into her magic. Her magical paint glowing. Trying to keep a scowl on her face so she didn’t encourage Erin.



——



The [Innkeeper] was still playing when Eurise and the other Fraerlings came back from their ant-killing expeditions.

They were bit to hell and back and tired and covered in gore. They’d killed eight queens—mostly Eurise dropping on them and assassinating them. But the aftermath had seen Zemmy and Mera getting a taste of real fighting, and they weren’t happy.

The sight of the city they had come to see so damaged had dampened their spirits, and Mera was unusually unhappy. When they saw and heard Erin and her band playing, she was the one who groused first.

“What is that? Music? We were killing all the ants, and we could have used her help! Instead, she’s just playing silly songs?”

She looked at Zemmy—he was tapping his foot to the beat. When she turned to Roja, Eurise brought a fist down on her head.

“Shut it, Mera.”

“Ow! Eurise! But she’s not even doing anything!”

Roja snorted as some of the older Fraerlings eyed the young ones. She leaned over to speak to Mera.

“She’s putting on a fine show for people. That’s worth more than you think, Mera. And if you think that’s nothing—you try dancing and singing on stage for more than twenty minutes. How long has she been going?”

She turned to Commander Leafin, who was bobbing his head to the beat. He glanced up as he took a swig of water.

“Three hours? They keep doing new songs and practicing them, but she’s been nonstop. Her presence makes the food taste better. Thanks for bringing these two, Eurise. The Hobgoblin’s giving out charms. They’re pretty good for Tallfolk, aren’t they?”

“Yep.”

The [Explorer] caught a flask of water as it was tossed his way, and Mera opened her mouth. Then she went up to watch the performers. She and Zemmy were practically guzzling their tomato soup out of their bowls later. The Corumdon Beetle clacked his mandibles happily below as he danced on his six legs. The Battle Hamster just curled up for a nap.



——



Afterwards, Ulvama met a hoarse [Innkeeper] as she hopped off the stage. She was covered in sweat, and her half-grown hair on the left side of her head had beads of sweat dripping down. She looked…appropriate, though. Her multi-colored brown hair and the music fit, perhaps deliberately.

Ulvama couldn’t say; there were things about Erin’s world that kept surprising her, and vice-versa. But she put her hands on her hips as Erin strode over. Bowom and Matha were still accepting applause.

“You Numbtongue now?”

Erin laughed and coughed. Ulvama handed her a tonic she’d made for her throat and some water. She was recharged on magic, actually, despite all her crafting. Fraerlings were waving at her and Erin. Ulvama waved back and elbowed Erin.

“Well?”

“What? I just felt like bringing the mood up.”

Erin replied innocently. The [Shaman] glowered at her, folding her arms. The [Innkeeper] coughed again, but it wasn’t a sick cough, just a dry throat.

“Before I forget—[Boon of the Guest: Erin]. For Nerry.”

On stage, Matha stopped riffing and fumbled her chords.

“Aw—Erin!”

The [Innkeeper] wore a smug smile as she turned back to Ulvama. To her surprise, the Hobgoblin hugged her, then let go fast.

“Thank you.”

“Whaaaa? For what? Did you manage to make a few more charms?”

The [Innkeeper] tried to appear innocent until Ulvama put her in a headlock.

“Argh! I give up! C’mon, Ulvama, I’m really hungry, and I haven’t eaten since…wait, I forgot lunch. I wonder if I can use my new power to make food taste good for me?”

“Thank you.”

Ulvama turned, and Erin fell in beside her. She was blushing now.

“It was a lot of fun. I’ve never performed like that before. Like—in a band! It’s pretty embarrassing, singing like an actual performer on stage.”

The Hobgoblin gestured at the stage.

“You did…good. Your voice wasn’t as good as the Singer—”

“Thanks.”

Ulvama poked Erin, and the [Innkeeper] jumped.

“No, shush. Not as good as the Singer of Terandria. But you sang like it mattered. So it was the best. It worked.”

Erin smiled and ducked her head.

“That’s good. I’d almost want to do it again. But—nah.”

She peeked wistfully over her shoulders, and Ulvama was surprised.

“Why not? That worked well.”

Erin waved a hand.

“Eh, if you didn’t need—I’m not good at much, Ulvama. Just chess and…chess. And killing things. I never really had the courage to try new things. Or go to concerts—Grand Rapids had them all the time. But I never went. Or started a band. Heck, I’d never have dreamed of even trying.”

She glanced across the city, waved at Eurise and the others, before putting her hands in her pockets. Ulvama unknowingly copied Eurise. She bonked Erin gently on the head with a hand.

“Dummy. You do new things to practice them.”

“Ulvama, I can’t. I’m too shy.”

She actually had the gall to say that out loud. The Hobgoblin looked at Erin, and then Matha collapsed onto her back. The exhausted [Raider] lay there on her back, possibly overwhelmed with the novel concept of work.

Or maybe that was too harsh. Even Erin turned back to gesture at her.

“I guess she’s useful after all. But don’t tell her I said that.”

In the distance, Matha lurched back upright in a sudden shock. She leapt up and then raised her hands overhead.

“[Punk]! New class! Wooooo!”

The [Innkeeper] sighed and turned away. Ulvama began to grin and then saw a Fraerling girl staring at her, open-mouthed. The Hobgoblin hesitated, and Erin whirled.

“She’s got awesome teeth, right?”

“Yeah!”

The girl nodded, and the embarrassed Goblin laughed, and then she and Erin were walking through the city as Matha and Bowom ran to catch up. Ignorant of the goings on in the greater, bigger world.

But they weren’t aching to go back. They were quite happy enough.





Author’s Note:

It has begun! The short chapters are coming! Also Silksong is out, and I’m highly distracted. However, I have a few things to say!

Firstly, if you didn’t see the announcement I put up, I have an appeal to readers to subscribe to The Wandering Inn’s various social media platforms. Just so that number rises and we can work with brands or organizations who use it as a metric of success. if you want to read it where I explain the reasoning.

Secondly, thanks for buying plushies and requesting more of your favorite characters! I already have a few readers who have posed the plushies in awesome poses and I’ll feature them if you want to submit them via social media or on Discord! The first is a regal Bird riding either a Sariant Lamb or an Eater Goat, and I’d believe each one.

Lastly—chapters. I’m doing it. I’m writing short chapters, and it’s the hour of the Halfseekers!

…You may be wondering why Erin is here. Well, I wrote a short chapter with her as well, but she doesn’t ‘fit’ narratively into the Halfseeker’s push, so I decided we’re getting an Erin chapter to start this week of our Halfseekers!

Writing a chapter a day is hard. I don’t always keep it to 10k, and in fact, I only wrote one chapter under. Some are uh, 20,000 word chapters I wrote for 9 hours straight on stream. But I’m doing it! I’m around…5 chapters in? I’m aiming for 7-8, but it’s tiring as you can imagine. So I think I’ll release the next ones over the course of the week. Expect to see at least a few more dropping—it’s not going to be daily because I’m not writing that fast, and I am taking time to edit them! But I hope you enjoy a return to shorter but more plentiful chapters! Here we go!





Procession of Queen Bird I, by tatolord!





Erin and Ilvriss by fern!





Erin and Ulvama Cowboy Bebop Style, Hollow Knight Inn Family, and Disaster Fashionista by Chalyon!

Ko-Fi: https://ko-fi.com/chalyon





Belavierr’s Eyes by olento!





Hornet Antinium and Hollow Knight Pawn by Carbon! (People love the series as much as I do!)





Hollow Garry by Brack!

Ko-Fi: https://ko-fi.com/brack

Twitter: https://twitter.com/Brack_Giraffe





Tolveilouka and Turkey Tolve by Yura!

Ko-Fi: https://ko-fi.com/yurariria

Bluesky: https://bsky.app/profile/yuraria.bsky.social





Ysara by Nanahou!

Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/wanderer.nanahou/

Ko-Fi: https://ko-fi.com/wanderer_nanahou/gallery





Ressa and King Itreimedes by Michael Cannon!





Interlude – Halfseekers (Pt. 1)


And then they had sex.

The sex was spontaneous. Organic—dead bodies were still technically organic, right?—and fun. The Selphid jumped on the giant Dullahan, wearing a fresh Drake’s body, and Maughin made a surprised, gratified sound.

“Again, Jelaqua? Are you sure we won’t wear out your body—?”

“Hey, all the nerve endings are intact, and we’re married. Get that codpiece off, you silly [Smith]!”

The details of the sexening were not necessary. It was common enough in Maughin’s 7th Floor home, next to the smithies, that if they didn’t have soundproofing spells, the neighbors would have definitely called the Watch. But as it was, the rather large home with rooms and hallways sized for someone of Maughin’s considerable height—nine feet—was rich.

Soundproofing spells on the walls and even a miniature forge attached to the Dullahan-style building with its crablike design and thick, thick walls were signs of wealth. Just like the glass windows and marble flooring in the entryway.

Of course, other Pallassians thought such houses, sometimes referred to as ‘Dull Houses’, were eyesores. They didn’t show off like traditional Drake architecture, and Dullahans favored an austere style of wealth. Like…stone flooring instead of putting a carpet down everywhere. Cold as hell unless you lived in your padded armor. Or were a Selphid.

Jelaqua didn’t mind it at all. She’d been actually very nervous about having to take care of a garden. She’d heard it was traditional for wives to do gardening when they got married, but Jelaqua had the opposite of a green thumb. And stone floors meant you could sweep it a lot easier than having to beat a bunch of carpets—and she wasn’t quite down with hiring a [Cleaner] or help.

It was little things like that which helped the married life.

And the sex.



——



Afterwards, they lay together in post-coital bliss, and Jelaqua grew insecure in about sixteen seconds after happily laying with Maughin. They weren’t cuddling as Dullahans didn’t really do that. The armored folk of Baleros were private, so Maughin’s armor came back on the moment they were done—his interior ‘self’ was a lot more sensitive and vulnerable than even regular Human flesh, so, again, like a crab, he instinctively covered up.

Dullahans were an odd species even by the standards of the myriad groups in this world. They were more divergent from the typical humanoids—a half-Elf, for all their longevity, had most of the same biological functions as a Human, but Dullahans were more different, with detachable limbs and armored bodies. Weirder. Harder to understand.

As a Selphid, Jelaqua related. The fact there was a Dullahan community in Pallass made them outsiders, even if there were generations of native-born Pallassians here. But Maughin had come from Invictel; he was a Dullahan who knew home and pined for it.

One of the reasons they’d liked each other when they met. Strangers far from their homeland. But you found a new home wherever you went—and love? Oh, she’d found it at last.

Jelaqua Ivirith, former Gold-rank Captain of the Halfseekers, Selphid, [Steelforged Whirlwind], the Selphid known as ‘Jelaqua the Tempest’ during her time as a mercenary in Baleros, lay in bed. Happy. Again, for sixteen seconds. Then she peeked at Maughin.

His head was on the bedside stand, having come off his body. It was reading a book; he’d been too distracted to read a minute ago, but now he had reading spectacles on and was perusing ‘Ponderings on Metallurgy, A Treatise on Forgotten Metals and Ores of the Waning World’ by some writer. He had a smile on his face, but Jelaqua coughed anyways.

“Um—that was fun!”

“What? Oh, yes, very.”

Dullahans weren’t that expressive, so that sounded dismissive, but it was actually encouraging. They were shy too, in a way. Jelaqua paused, then went on.

“I don’t think my body’s bad. It doesn’t smell, right? And it’s holding up in all the right places? Nothing—mushy?”

This time, Maughin had to pause a moment. The nature of Selphids was that they inhabited dead bodies. You had to be okay with kissing an animated corpse, but even he had limits. Jelaqua worked hard on her ‘social’ bodies to make sure they were preserved and, well, not corpse-like. He coughed as his body stretched out a hand to cover his mouth.

“Yes. Very fresh, Jelaqua.”

“That’s great, um, Maughy. Dear.”

They both paused. The nickname wasn’t quite landing. After a moment, Maughin’s body turned, and he regarded Jelaqua with his head.

“I enjoyed it, Jelaqua. I always do. You don’t have to do it because you think I want to.”

He blushed faintly. He was so open and direct compared to some Dullahans—but they were in private. Jelaqua relaxed a bit.

“Who, me? Of course I enjoy it! I just worry…aw, nevermind.”

Relieved, she rolled over in bed. Maughin went back to reading, and Jelaqua sighed. Married life. Her, a Gold-rank adventurer, married. She couldn’t believe it. She was still so happy.

And terribly sad. Moore and Ulinde. Jelaqua closed her eyes, but she didn’t cry or Maughin would think it was his fault.

The Halfseekers are gone. And it’s my fault. We saved lives. It’s over. I’m married now. Be happy, be happy—

It was easier when they were like this. She could believe the world was indeed that sparkling rainbow of happy-ever-after she’d wanted as a small Selphid. But then the sun rose. And the problem with married life—at least, with Maughin—wasn’t him.

Not him, the dedicated [Smith] who genuinely loved his strange new wife despite all her quirks.

No, the problem was being…well. Married to a Dullahan.

He had family.



——



Her name was Vhiren Dulamet, a common last-name. She was a [Baker], Level 28; nothing special, but she had enough to operate a bakery with her husband, Mordol, and they had a son working as an assistant [Baker] on the 7th floor of Pallass.

Not prosperous; they were middle-income at best, but they’d moved up in the world, literally, since their son was Pallass’ best [Smith]. Vhiren was 5’6’’ and had decorated metal armor that was quite elegant and impressive given her actual status. Again, made by her son. She had grey hair cut in a short bob, and her armor was polished white, which actually worked well because flour didn’t get that noticeable on it.

Jelaqua feared her more than an Adult Creler. Every time Maughin’s mother came over, she squirmed around inside her body, and Vhiren came by so often.

“I brought bread, Maughin. Fresh-baked. I hope you are eating well?”

“Very well, Mother. Jelaqua was just making breakfast. Will you eat with us?”

Vhiren hesitated.

“Oh. No. I have eaten. I will just sit and talk. Is there tea?”

Such polite words. They hid levels of meaning so deep you had to be there to understand the nuances. For instance, Vhiren was sitting with her head on a table as Maughin’s body fed him breakfast. Her body was moving about Jelaqua and Maughin’s living room-kitchen, opening cupboards, ostensibly to put the fresh bread somewhere.

Investigating. Critiquing. And the dialogue—well. Bringing fresh bread to her son was a natural thing for a [Baker] to do! It didn’t imply that Jelaqua was failing to keep the household up.

The same with not being hungry—it wasn’t a deliberate slight against Jelaqua or a refusal to eat what the Selphid was making. Unless you read it that way. The same with the comment about tea that Jelaqua instantly began to make.

You should have made it already. I can’t believe this is my son’s wife.

Vhiren didn’t say it, and her face was too polite to suggest it, but she didn’t like Jelaqua. Maughin, by contrast, was very respectful to his mother and made small talk about their business, the things in Pallass—Jelaqua joined him for breakfast, which was roasted corn-on-the-cob with a hearty side of braised beef dipped in a sauce she’d bought from a local [Saucemaker], very good.

Maughin’s mother eyed the food.

“Such interesting cuisine, Miss Ivirith. Do you not know any traditional meals? I could lend you a cookbook.”

Jelaqua hesitated, wiping her hands on a towelette. She tried to smile at the old Bagrhaven.

“I, uh—I know a few recipes, but I’d love to borrow a cookbook, Miss Vhiren!”

She was spared from having to say more by Maughin glancing up from a newspaper he was reading. He spoke with the hint of a frown.

“I like her cooking, Mother. I asked for the corn. It comes from a specialist [Farmer] up north. I had it once in Liscor and liked it. I am working long hours at the smithy today as well.”

“Oh, of course. Which farmer is it?”

Instantly, Vhiren abandoned her line of questioning. The slight at calling Jelaqua ‘Miss Ivirith’, the implication she couldn’t cook—they were all digs. And Maughin didn’t miss them. His frown, his slight censure of his mother…Jelaqua held her breath, feeling elated and unhappy.

Vhiren left soon thereafter as work was beginning. Maughin glanced out the window; it wasn’t even dawn yet. Both Vhiren and her son worked the early hours, and Jelaqua was used to it as a Gold-rank adventurer. When Vhiren was leaving with an empty basket, Jelaqua turned to Maughin.

“You didn’t have to—”

“She was being rude. I can tell, Jelaqua. I know everyone says females of any species talk in code, but it is direct enough if you listen.”

He put down his newspaper and began to clean his plate, and Jelaqua wrung the towel between her claws—she still had the Drake body.

“But you’re fighting with your family! It’s such a—a—”

A problem in Dullahan culture! Maughin censuring his mother in any way was already extraordinary. That she came over and they were civil was because they did care for each other, but the Dullahan’s face developed a stubborn cast.

“The rift began at our wedding. She will not relent; neither will I. I am not wrong. She will see it, or we will continue forging our opinions against each other.”

A Dullahan family drama. Jelaqua hung her head, and Maughin patted her arm.

“It is not your fault they are prejudiced. Come now, Jelaqua. How can I help you smile?”

Because he meant it, she smiled. It was even genuine as she kissed his head on the cheek, and he put it on his shoulders and prepared to head out for work in his forge on the 9th Floor.

“I’ll see you tonight! Good luck with the big wagon order! Is it all New Lands?”

He grumbled softly in his chest.

“New Lands or replacing what was bought up. Ridiculous. One moment they have no need for good wagon parts because ‘Wistram is superior’, the next everyone demands it because magic is missing from the New Lands.”

She grinned up at him.

“Nice to be appreciated?”

“I hate wagon axles. I’d rather work on the Adamantium…I will be back late. Please, do not wait up for me. Farrier Bealt is teaming up with my forge to handle a hundred and twenty wheels by midnight.”

Dead gods, that was a lot. Even for a [Smith] like Maughin who had lesser [Smiths] and [Apprentices] under his command—but he could do the work. Jelaqua nodded.

“I’ll be heading to that fancy get-together at lunch. You couldn’t…?”

He shook his head.

“I’m sorry, but I cannot take an hour.”

She knew that and sighed. Then she smiled and pushed at the small of his back. She was so strong she could shove even him towards the door.

“Well then, get to it! Wait, your lunch!”

She grabbed a wooden box and hurriedly activated the cooling rune, then shoved it into Maughin’s hands. He smiled at her as he began to stride down the still-dark streets of smooth stone, towards the elevators and the 9th Floor. Jelaqua waved at him, then stood in the doorway a moment.

Around her, the dark homes of her neighbors were beginning to light up, and she inhaled the scents of Pallass through her dead body’s nasal passages. Whenever she had a fresh body, she savored every sense. She was lucky; she had plenty of dead bodies, and Pallass was big enough that she could get more. She could smell the faint whiffs of alchemy from above, baked bread from behind her, and the tang of metal which hung around Maughin’s house. She couldn’t tell if it was chilly or not, but the spring air felt fresh enough.

“Okay, Jelaqua, another day of marriage.”

She snapped her claws, then glanced over her shoulder. First order of business?

Replacing the towel she’d accidentally ripped by twisting it. The problem with being a Gold-ranker was that she was too strong. The good thing was she and Maughin were wealthy enough.

The bad thing about being married was…Jelaqua was still unsure what to do with herself. She hadn’t realized it, but being a [Loving Wife] was, uh, sort of hard.

She was a Level 38 [Steelforged Whirlwind] after the Winter Solstice. Lower-level than you’d think for an adventurer and mercenary’s life of over 33 years, perhaps. Too many other classes.

A Level 11 [Loving Wife], newly consolidated from her [Lover] class. Plenty of great Skills like [Body: Slow Decay] or [Body: Fresh Flesh] so she could be more living with Maughin and less horrifically gross. That was her real class, anyways. [Wife]. Her new life…the rest of it was behind her.

Level 23 [Mercenary]? A different life.

Level 26 [Bounty Hunter]? Another period, another continent. Consolidated into her main class with [Mercenary].

Level 6 [Sullen Fisher]? Never again, thank you. Jelaqua stretched and remembered a miserable Selphid girl pulling fish up on the shores of a village and then stared around the City of Inventions.

“Life’s good. It really is.”

She was fifty-eight years old, and she’d lived a lifetime of other classes and jobs. That wasn’t as long as it would be for a Human since Selphids could live longer if they didn’t get the Wasting. But it was a full life, unlike that of half-Elves. For an adventurer? Ancient.

Jelaqua would get used to the wife thing. The first thing she did, in fact, was try to make peace with Miss Vhiren.

It, uh, went as well as it always did.



——



Jelaqua waited for twenty-six minutes at Steelforged Loaves, the bakery that had an image of Maughin drawn proudly on the signboard. Only after she waited patiently that long did Vhiren send out someone from behind the counter to get rid of her.

“Miss Ivirith, can I help you?”

It was her son, Milden, a thirty-one year old Dullahan still living with his parents. Mordol, who was running the counter, didn’t look at Jelaqua, though some of the mostly-Dullahan customers were giving her the side-eye. They knew about her, of course, and the fight Maughin was having with his family. But no one said anything in public. Dullahans were terrible gossips.

“Hey, Milden, I’ve got some of that fresh corn from Farmer Lupp. I reckoned I’d share some.”

Jelaqua had a small bag of colorful corn and regular stuff from the north. It was very pricey, and she figured that if they tried it, the Dullahans would love it. Milden glanced towards his father as he took the bag.

“Thank you, Jelaqua.”

She smiled at Milden; of all of Maughin’s family, she liked him most, and vice versa was true.

“No problem. Hey, did you catch the King of Destruction tearing Nerrhavia’s Fallen a new one?”

He perked up a bit.

“I did. They cut the scrying spell too early. He rampaged straight through the pikes, just like you said.”

Jelaqua snorted.

“Ah, that’s what I keep saying. At his level, it doesn’t matter if pikes beat horses. You can’t out-number a guy like him. Back when I was in Baleros…”

She was going to spin him a yarn about her time as a commander when Mordol spoke up.

“Milden, the customers.”

The younger Dullahan stopped and gave Jelaqua a guilty glance. He bowed his head to his father, and Jelaqua waved a hand.

“Sorry, you have to go.”

She smiled at him as he got back to work. Then she stood around for a moment…until someone else approached her.

“Miss Ivirith. Good morning to you.”

The last member of Maughin’s immediate family was Linteca. She made Jelaqua’s stomach hurt less than Maughin’s parents, but it was still awkward around her.

She was twenty-eight. Youngest of the family—Maughin was nearing forty—and the least-respectable member. Before Jelaqua, she would have been considered the problem-child, but it seemed Miss Vhiren was getting on great with her daughter. Because her daughter’s isle of discontent had been eclipsed by Jelaqua’s moon of problems.

Linteca was a Street Runner, you see. Not a City Runner, which was respectable. She was twenty-eight, pulling minimum wage in a very unrespectable job in Pallass, even if she had enough work. The city needed Street Runners constantly with its millions of people. Even so, for a family like Vhiren’s…no.

Mordol had succeeded the family business and so was a good kid. Maughin was the great [Smith], a beloved class by Dullahans, and the best in Pallass, so unassailably fantastic despite his oddities with his wife; his parents would never disown him. But Linteca?

Jelaqua happened to know that Maughin gave her some gold each month so she could have more money to spend and so she didn’t have to live with her parents. Despite that, she didn’t like Jelaqua…Maughin thought it was a way for her to get on her parents’ good side.

“Hey, Linteca, how’s the running going?”

Jelaqua smiled, and Linteca bowed her head stiffly.

“It is busy as ever. I brought the towel to your door.”

“Oh. Uh—thanks. You know how it is. Maughin and I can’t mind our own strength.”

Damn, they’d given Linteca that job? Jelaqua flushed. Linteca gave her another bland expression.

“Yes, I am sure my brother cannot mind his strength.”

And Jelaqua was almost done with the passive-aggressiveness for the day. She wished she had a monster to punch. She smiled, tight-lipped. Her Drake’s tail curled into a knot, which made one of the Drake clients freeze in horror; Drake tails should not move like that unless a Selphid was controlling them.

“—Well, I’ve got to get going. I’ve got some fancy meetup to get to.”

“Oh, with who? Fellow adventurers? I thought they were all in the New Lands. Unless these are more retired veterans such as yourself?”

Linteca raised her eyebrows. Since Jelaqua was annoyed, she went petty and smiled airily.

“Adventurers? Oh no, it’s just some Walled Nobles. You know, a brunch between that sort? Maughin’s too busy to attend, but I figured they’d have good sandwiches.”

Mordol glanced up from the counter, and Linteca hesitated. Jelaqua just knew Vhiren would hear that. She hoped the old harridan exploded out of jealousy.

“I’ll see you later. Good luck running, kid!”

Jelaqua headed out of the store and then slumped as she left. Well, so much for mending bridges. Here would be a moment when she found a friend to vent about Maughin’s family.

If she had one.

But her team was gone, and in their absence…Jelaqua hadn’t really made a friend in Pallass. Not yet.



——



The problem was her social status and who she hung out with. As a former adventurer and current [Wife], Jelaqua didn’t have a circle to get together with. Ideally, it would have been Maughin’s friends or family, but the Dullahan community was pretty standoffish.

But hey, you were a new wife, you could hang with the others, right? Again, Jelaqua was handicapped because she was, unwillingly, not just some housewife, but a socialite.

Maughin was Pallass’ best [Smith] with Pelt gone. Which meant he ranked above your average household. He wasn’t old money, and so he lived on the 7th Floor, but he was important, so that was how Jelaqua found herself sitting in a parlor next to Drakes, Gnolls, and a single Garuda in the middle of high society.

She hated it here. All the other wives and husbands were heads of Guilds or Walled Nobility, and they had a bit of an elitist attitude towards a common [Smith]. Much less his adventurer wife.

And their conversation sucked.

“So, as I was saying, this New Lands venture is completely untenable. I’m pulling out my investments.”

“Really? Are you sure, Minsvi?”

A Drake [Wife] was speaking airily to the table they were all sitting around, and a few of the other wives gasped. They were mostly [Wives] with that exact class; not many people with a job had time to hang out in the mid-morning.

[Trophy Wives]. If not that exact class…they looked good. A Gnoll was turning to Minsvi as Jelaqua sipped on some coffee and munched on a decent sandwich. You’d think they’d have better, rich as they were, but it was just a crustless piece of bread with fancy ingredients and zero compositional ability. Minsvi nodded importantly.

“My husband—he works at the Merchant’s Guild, Miss Ivirith, just so you know, and he knows everything—he said that multiple [Merchant] expeditions have lost everything. Just everything! This Consortium of Enterprise he was following? The last [Message] they sent was that they’d lost all their magic, they were running low on food, and their hired help were threatening to rebel!”

“Dead gods! What a disaster!”

Everyone was discussing the New Lands, and the group tittered with dismay. Minsvi nodded as Jelaqua eyed the sandwich plate.

“I told him to pull all our money out, and you should too! There’s no profit in the New Lands.”

“But we have a caravan already on the way, and we’ve invested a 30% stake in it!”

Stressed, one Gnoll stood up and turned. She was Senator Eriff’s wife, around his age. Minsvi nodded to her.

“Well, get it back! It’s better than watching all the gold vanish. Even adventurers are fleeing the New Lands. After all, without magic or food, it’s hopeless, isn’t it, Miss Ivirith? You wouldn’t take your team into that nightmarish land, would you?”

In a heartbeat to get out of here. Jelaqua tried to smile around and noticed most of the [Wives] giving her fake smiles. They didn’t like a Selphid among them any more than the Dullahans. The problem was…few people were used to Selphids in Izril.

The dead body thing, her species, unnerved them. Jelaqua doubted she’d do this brunch again. She wished Maughin were here; at least then he’d be able to talk to the other husbands and she’d be able to stand with him.

Another problem Jelaqua had was her tongue. She just couldn’t hold it. Oh, she could be nice if she had to, but when she was asked a question, she liked to be truthful rather than to play into whatever people were saying. So she shrugged.

“Eh, my team? If it was the Halfseekers at full strength, we’d go into the New Lands. Mind you, we’d hate losing magic, but if we were forewarned, we’d do it.”

“What? Without magic or food?”

The group was askance, and Jelaqua took a sip from her teacup. She slurped too loudly; half of them winced, and the Garuda hid a smile behind her beak. Jelaqua blushed orange, but then she went on.

“Pardon me. Whatdya mean no food? You just mean we can’t grow it. There’s plenty to eat if you can hunt. My [Rogue], Seborn, he has a knack for sneaking up on things. So long as we’re around something edible, that’s food. And our [Green Mage], Moore…he could tell you what we could eat.”

Moore. She swallowed hard, but forced a smile and went on.

“No magic’s hard, but most [Mages] can generate a bit. Moore could…could have gotten some from the ground, I reckon.”

“But Miss Ivirith, what’s the point? If there’s no magic, all these ruins are worthless! Nothing to explore. No magical animals or plants!”

Miss Minsvi was determined to be a wet blanket. She waved a claw, and Jelaqua fixed her with a kindly eye.

“Aw, well, it seems bad right now, Miss Minsvi. I feel bad for all the folk who went in not knowing how tough it was. But there’s always something valuable in a place like that. The land itself.”

“Land where you can’t use magic? What use is that?”

Jelaqua counted on her fingers.

“[Farmers]. [Ranchers]. If there’s good ore, a [Miner] would be there. Free land is great, ‘specially if it’s not hard to clear and use. More than that? Sure, let’s say this magic-draining thing affects all the New Lands. Anything above Artifact ranking is still going to have magic in the ruins. Plus, there are highly magical beasts I’ve heard. You hear about The Adventurer’s Haven coming under attack?”

They had not. Jelaqua had to explain that.

“That’s a lot of value. Not easy value, but any adventuring team might hunt those monsters because that’s gear you could never buy. Most importantly, though, I think there’s one last trick to the New Lands.”

She was staring at the sandwiches, all of different types on the tray. Was she going to gamble on another one? She could use a bite, but that last sandwich had been pretty mediocre. Everyone leaned in.

“Which is…?”

Jelaqua blinked.

“Oh, well. If the magic’s all going somewhere, where’s it going? It’s always somewhere, right?”

That was just logic. She’d journeyed with enough [Mages] to know that. Jelaqua expounded on her statement as she reached for a sandwich.

“Seborn says that there’s places in the ocean that drain magic—but Drowned Folk reckon it’s a beast or something down there. If I were in the New Lands, I’d take my team hunting for the source of the mana drain. If it’s an object, spell, or monster, that’s where the money’s at. So I don’t know about pulling your money out of the New Lands. But if you’re saying there’s nothing there, I disagree. Politely.”

She smiled at Minsvi, who glowered as the other wives murmured. Jelaqua was about to take a gamble on a tasty-looking flatbread when someone reached out.

“Why don’t you take one of these, Adventurer Jelaqua?”

The Garuda woman passed her a seemingly fruit-filled sandwich that appeared highly suspect. Jelaqua hesitated, but decided to take the gamble. To her surprise, the ‘fruits’ were actually pineapple, which went decently well with some roasted chicken! She munched on it, pleasantly shocked it was made well.

“This is good!”

The other [Wives] were debating the New Lands venture more quietly, ostracizing her, but the Garuda woman leaned over.

“I made it myself, actually. You’re exceptionally knowledgeable, Miss Ivirith! Or is it Miss Dulamet? Forgive me, we’ve met at the last get-together, but Werdin and Maughin were talking the entire time. I’m Melika.”

“Oh, pleased to meet you. Wall Lord Werdin’s wife?”

The [Socialite] was vaguely familiar, and she had some colorful feathers and a hefty golden necklace with a huge emerald on it. Definitely the wife of a rich man—Wall Lord Werdin Blackwing was from one of Pallass’ biggest noble families.

For all that, Melika seemed genuinely friendly and fascinated.

“We have some business in the New Lands as well, so hearing it’s not a complete waste of time is a relief.”

“Ah, well, I wouldn’t put much stock in my words. Just seems to me that if they’ve bought all the goods and hired everyone, there’s not much gold to get back. Everything’s a huge gamble like this, so I’d bet on a big return rather than wasting most of my gold, you know? Not that this is advice!”

Jelaqua hurriedly clarified, and Melika nodded.

“Of course not, but I might repeat a bit of what you said to Werdin. He’s been so stressed…”

That was when Minsvi spoke loudly.

“Unless Pallass’ army can do something, I think he should be! Melika, your husband knows General Edellein, doesn’t he? Is there any news from the New Lands? I’d trust his opinion over a former adventurer’s any day.”

Melika frowned at her as Jelaqua sighed internally. But then the Garuda snapped back.

“Only some kind of super ice-bird, which, just as Miss Jelaqua said, is a sign the New Lands has magic! Minsvi, you’re being terribly rude. I think Miss Ivirith would be more happy to speak to anyone with earholes to listen—over by the window?”

Then she stood and beckoned to Jelaqua. The adventurer blinked, then rose, and Minsvi hesitated. But a third of her group glanced between her and Melika and clearly thought the Garuda was better to follow—when Jelaqua got up, another third decided to follow.

The two groups split, and then Jelaqua was staring down at a view of Pallass from the grand glass windows, and Melika was smiling at her.

“You were talking about The Adventurer’s Haven, Miss Ivirith? We went to it when they visited—such a grand inn! I had no idea it was in the New Lands!”

Jelaqua blinked at her, and the suddenly-attentive ladies, and then wondered if Melika wanted something from her. At the very least, she wasn’t being sneered at, so Jelaqua took another bite of her sandwich.

“Sure? The inn? It’s probably one of the most defensive structures in Izril. More than a fortress! Now, if it was under attack that bad…”



——



After an hour, Jelaqua decided she liked Melika. The Garuda might be a [Socialite], but she was sharp! Less of a vacuous airhead than her class and demeanor suggested.

Of course, she was still a rich lady of Pallass, but who wasn’t in this room? That she listened to Jelaqua was nice, and she had some weight socially speaking. Whether that came from her husband…

He showed up after an hour with some of the married men, who chatted awkwardly in groups of their own. There was a very funny gender divide with speaking with the ladies, but it seemed that Jelaqua was an exception as an adventurer.

“Adventurer Ivirith, I hear you had some opinions on the New Lands? Did you hear about the ice bird that stopped the entire Walled City’s forces for a day? I heard it took two Named-ranks to break the wall!”

Jelaqua was chatting with them and getting some intelligence on the New Lands, as if she would ever go there. She saw Werdin march over as the head of the Engineer’s Guild came in, took one look at the scene, and walked out.

Now there’s a fellow who doesn’t want to be here. Jelaqua had nothing better to do, so she stayed put. She saw Werdin grab Melika’s arm.

“Melika, did Salkis come back? I told you and the staff to grab her! She’s causing more trouble—”

“Salkis? What did she do this time? I don’t know—”

Ooh, marital troubles. Werdin growled at Melika for a few seconds before joining the conversation as if all was well. When he spoke, Melika went mostly quiet.

All of it put Jelaqua’s tendrils in a knot. Drake high society. Eugh. It was so…gendered.

She’d heard Terandria did the same. Most Selphid’s sense of ‘male’ or ‘female’ changed with whichever body they wore. Jelaqua was an exception in that she felt female, regardless, but she could definitely wear a male body if she needed to. You couldn’t be picky about that, but it led to complications that way, too.

Maughin definitely got weirded out whenever she wore a male body and wanted to get cuddly, but he didn’t do the ‘you must be silent when I speak’ thing.

Still, Werdin was impressed enough by her theories on the New Lands. He snapped his claws as he drank some wine.

“That’s an adventurer’s take. That’s what I want to hear! A bit of guts in the New Lands, not just pull the money and run!”

He nodded authoritatively, and suddenly everyone liked Jelaqua. The Selphid rolled her eyes as Minsvi piped up.

“Actually, I happen to know a few Gold-rank teams who are in the New Lands, Lord Werdin, if you were so interested…”

Jelaqua backed out of the conversation on the pretense of getting a drink. She sort of hoped Melika would follow, but the Garuda was glued to her husband’s side. Jelaqua ambled over to the drinks and blinked.

“Wine at this hour?”

She was no lush. Jelaqua grabbed some purified water instead and sighed.

“Ugh, it’s not being served in a proper bottle or glass. Tastes just like water.”

These rich people. She was topping her glass up when someone else poured themselves a drink of water, and Jelaqua saw a familiar Drake toss down the entire cup and fill another one.

“Wh—General Shirka? What are you doing here?”

None other than 2nd Army’s [General] was here! Shirka looked about as happy as Jelaqua had felt, but she turned and nodded at Jelaqua.

“Adventurer…Ivirith? Good to meet you. I’m attending this brunch by way of invitation. 2nd Army is reforming at Pallass.”

She nodded around, and Jelaqua frowned at her.

“Yeah, sorry about that disaster. I haven’t seen a force get beaten that badly since I was in Baleros.”

The Selphid feared she’d put her foot in the cowpat, but Shirka only stiffened a second before offering her a brittle smile.

“At least someone’s not sugarcoating it.”

“Sorry, sorry. You know us Balerosians. No tact.”

“Well, you would know war. As a former [Mercenary] yourself, I mean.”

“Hey, you know about that?”

“You do have a file, Adventurer Ivirith.”

Shirka favored Jelaqua with a faint smile, and the Selphid rolled her eyes.

“You Drakes and your files. So how’s it going? Burying the dead, attending the funerals—agh, it was never easy. Sorry.”

But the [General] didn’t seem to mind. She spoke as a few people drifted towards Jelaqua, then away when they saw Shirka. She was probably doing the political thing, which any commander had to, but she was definitely out-of-favor in Pallass. And she talked to Jelaqua with that familiarity both had with war and armies.

“It’s been a disaster, but it’s not my first war, if that makes sense. Frankly…the [Slayer] corps are ‘easier’ than most, because their classes meant most were single. Dedicated to the fight.”

“Ah. Their families knew what was coming?”

Shirka nodded, and Jelaqua shook her head.

“We had a few of those in Baleros. Not that I served with them—but you get loyalists to every species. Dullahans treat theirs the best, which is weird to say, I know. The Eternal Nobles—sorry, I forget their exact name. Selphids who follow the Minds get a bit weird, though.”

General Shirka grimaced.

“The [Slayers] were certainly a problem for any [General] who commanded 2nd Army. But they were an asset. The fact that they all perished under my watch…”

“Hey, a Goblin Lord and Goblin King appear and everyone dies. Mind you, I’d have pulled my army back rather than face that monster.”

“So would I.”

Oh. That was not a happy expression Shirka wore. Jelaqua hesitated.

“So what’s next for 2nd Army? Rebuilding?”

Shirka drained her cup and filled it, again with the water.

“Yes, retraining and recruitment. It’s a long process, though I intend to have 2nd Army ready for action within a month, if not ready for a war.”

She wasn’t beaten down; that was good. Jelaqua whistled.

“You can recruit that fast?”

“From the other armies and our allied cities? Yes. Bringing them up to standard is far harder, but we drill rigorously. The real problem is our…edge. Our Archmage’s card.”

“Your what now?”

Shirka waved a claw and tried to explain. She grimaced into her cup.

“Excuse me, I’m using internal slang. It’s standing policy for every army of Pallass to have a defining trait or characteristic that they can use against a foe. A ‘secret weapon’, but not that prosaic. 1st Army had exceptionally heavy armor and General Duln and Strategist Chaldion. 2nd Army had our [Slayers], and so on. General Edellein had a rather outstanding [Lieutenant] and a number of specialist units. Without one, we won’t be approved for combat until we find another edge.”

Jelaqua raised her brows.

“Sounds like a real problem to come up with in a few months’ time. Are they just giving out special forces these days?”

Shirka offered her a mirthless smile.

“Exactly. There aren’t many good options, and it is standing practice. This isn’t confidential, incidentally. I have only a few options. One of which would be to demand a hundred Eyes of Pallass with combat capabilities for 2nd Army.”

A hundred [Spies] serving in a combat role? Jelaqua winced.

“Yeah, they’d love taking orders from you. And wouldn’t ever disobey orders. I’d rather have a hundred kids.”

Shirka’s face said she would too.

“It’s one of the few ways I can claim to have a specialty—well, I’m looking into custom armor or something else that can qualify. The problem is that’s not a very genuine specialist unit, even if I arm our veterans up. And the only other option is—worse.”

She stared into her cup and shook her head. Jelaqua was impressed.

“Worse than a hundred [Spies]?”

“Oh, I didn’t believe it either. I’d rather have our [Slayers] again. Sometimes, I see Saliss’ point about Pallass. The things we don’t know and the sins of the city—like wielding a poisoned blade.”

Now, what did that mean? But Shirka didn’t elaborate; in fact, her gaze drifted away, and Jelaqua didn’t get any more from her. Then Werdin was bringing her back to discuss the war in Reim, and well—that was brunch.

It was entertaining enough, and Melika waved at Jelaqua afterwards.

“Miss Jelaqua, I’d love to do this again!”

“Hey, so would I. If you ever have a brunch like this, just invite me.”

Jelaqua smiled, and Melika promised to, but from the glower a few of the other wives gave her, Jelaqua doubted she’d be top of an invite list. Then she was free for the day. Jelaqua Ivirith walked around Pallass.

With nothing to do in the world.





——



Normally, Jelaqua enjoyed her downtime, but that was because it was between adventures. You just ate, relaxed, and knew the good times would end, and you’d be slogging through the mud towards a monster den. But what happened when the good times were forever?

She didn’t train. Oh, she’d swing her flail around now and then, but Jelaqua was no [Warrior] who needed to train muscles; she was a Selphid, and her body determined her strength. Nor was she quite down on wifely hobbies yet.

Cleaning their home didn’t take too long. Jelaqua didn’t garden, and Maughin wouldn’t be back until late, so there was no dinner to make; she’d already put some food in their Preservation Pantry for him to eat.

So she did what anyone with wealth in Pallass did.

Tried to find something to buy.



——



The Grand Bazaar on the 1st Floor wasn’t super-interesting to Jelaqua; she’d been there a lot, and most of the curios or knickknacks weren’t something she needed. So instead, she attended a more upscale place to spend money: the Mage’s Guild.

The one in Pallass always had the latest magical enchantments, spells, or services on offer. Jelaqua stood with a crowd of murmuring people as the [Mage] created magical, light-based illusions of their latest services.

They’re getting better at that. It used to be they just gave us fancy pictures. Jelaqua eyed some of the things with less interest—she’d seen the magical carriages that were all the rage.

Maughin doesn’t have time to travel, and we have the door. Plus, buying one of those is way outside even our budget.

Same with the Adventure Rooms—she’d seen real adventure, thank you. But there was more!

“We’re now offering advanced magical artifacts, citizens of Pallass! Have you ever wanted to talk to a friend in another city without going through the Mage’s Guild? Now, our Infinite Message Scrolls are 50% off! And we have a new, advanced Book of Messages with the ability to ‘connect’ to anyone anywhere in the world!”

The [Mage] had a book that didn’t really impress Jelaqua; any decent [Mage] could cast [Message]. What was better than a scroll? Which was tempting, though The Wandering Inn had something far better.

The poor Drake charged with selling these items had to cough at this point and mutter into one fist.

“ExceptionsapplynoteverylocationiswithinmagicalreachWistramtakesnoresponsibilityforfailurestoconnectormagicaldamageduetohostilemagicalinterference.”

A portly Gnoll in the front nodded to the [Mage].

“Gesundheit. Why is this book so special, Magus…? More pages means I could have multiple [Message] spells, but that’s not worth that price.”

He pointed at the price, which was sitting at eight hundred gold pieces for the book. Way too high for anyone but Jelaqua, who barely blinked at the fee.

Pretty cheap. Any Gold-ranker would get it, and that Scroll of Messages is only twenty gold? What a steal!

She was considering the scroll when the [Mage] flipped the book open.

“Ah, I’m so glad you asked, sir. This book is capable of creating a ‘chatting room’, wherein multiple people can speak on the same [Message] spell at once! With this, you’re no longer on a dedicated one-way communication spell you need to have a [Mage] link your scrolls to. You can, with ease, write the name of the chatroom up top, here…and voila!”

He wrote ‘Test Room 1’ up top, and instantly, the page filled with glowing text. Jelaqua blinked as she saw a bunch of writing appear.



Wistram Academy: This is a showcase of our new Chatting Room feature! Simply write the room you wish, and it will be created for anyone to participate in!

Pheislant’s Mage’s Guild: Exactly! You can also add colored text without needing new ink—in fact, these don’t use ink at all—your complimentary quill will write it for you! Reusable pages! Hello from Pheislant, the weather is cloudy with a chance of rain!

Reim’s Mage’s Guild: Speak to penpals across the world with ease! You can also have multiple conversations going on at once, and all our [Messages] are encrypted with Archmage Eldavin’s magic! The weather is hot and sunny!

First Landing’s Mage’s Guild: For an even more premium option, we offer spellbooks with quills that can auto-write for you as you dictate or read each message aloud! This is just one of the new items coming from Wistram Academy! It’s a bright, blue day over here, weather of 72 degrees! That’s 72 Feldivals’s, our new universal measure of heat!

Elvallian’s Mage’s Guild: ELDER CRELER ATTACK! ABANDON ALL HOPE! THERE ARE THOUSANDS POURING OUT OF THE GROUND! FLEE! FLEE FOR YOUR LIVES!

Wistram Academy: Identity verification services are also available for a small subscription fee! Be careful whom you talk to! Children under the age of thirteen are advised to have a parent when using this product. Wistram Academy will never ask for personal information…



What a product! If she’d had that when she was adventuring, Jelaqua would have been talking to other teams or back home…she was counting up their monthly budget.

She was rich. She had fifty thousand gold pieces from the Village of the Dead alone and a smaller fortune saved up, but Maughin didn’t want her to spend her money on him and vice versa.

Jelaqua was running a home like a good [Wife]. She was helping cook, supporting him, trying to fit into Pallass. Not because she felt like she had to conform to his parents’ vision of a respectable bride. She knew she’d never do that.

It was just that it was easier to throw herself into this life she had. If not, then she just had two more graves. A team she’d led to their deaths.

She’d go crazy, so worrying about a budget it was. Jelaqua hummed to herself as if she still couldn’t smell the snow and blood, hear the Hag Queen laughing. Healer Demerra had called it ‘disassociating’, but what did she know?

I’ll have to ask Maughin about this, but I think he’d love to have other [Smiths] on the line! More than one customer was asking about the book and if there were discounts for a smaller one—but the magic didn’t end there. The smiling [Mage] hurried over to another display.

“If you’re interested in our magical items, remember, Wistram Academy is the only institution with such magic, everyone. No one can compare! Any aspiring [Mages] can learn any Tier 4 spells with our new teaching program, and we are now offering dedicated spellcasts! For instance…[Vermin Purge]! Do you have a pest problem in your house? Do you suspect you do? A [Mage] can eradicate them all in a moment and ward your house with our new line of ward spells!”

Dead gods, he had everything. Jelaqua’s brows rose as the [Mage] began offering tons of crazy things. Not just new ward spells that were going to last longer than a year—they had a decade guarantee of good service!—he was showcasing the craziest thing yet.

“Archmage Eldavin is very sympathetic to those entering their advanced years, especially in homes with multiple floors. So, he has enchanted a ‘Magical Elevator’ which can rise and fall with ease. A simple flagstone or other object, even a cushion, becomes a free-floating object! This is a very pricey enchantment, but imagine it! Having an elevator like those around Pallass in your home! Without sound or breakdowns…”

Okay, that was it. Jelaqua actually stepped forwards at this point.

“Hey, I’ve seen a lot of magic in my time, and I have to try this.”

No one just made a [Levitation] spell like that, much less in an enchantment! It had to be fake—Moore couldn’t do that, and he was Gold-rank, and neither could Ulinde. If they could…

The Selphid tried her best to disprove the floating cushion. When it lifted her into the air and people gasped as she rose six feet, she did a huge hop and stomped on it.

The [Mage] below her flinched.

“Miss, Miss, there’s no guardrails or safety spells, you’ll hurt yourself—”

“Don’t worry; Selphid. I’m just testing—”

She grinned at him and then threw her weight from side-to-side, trying to destabilize the spell. If it was just a lifting spell, it’d go sideways and hurl…

The cushion didn’t move. To her dismay, Jelaqua swung herself under the floating object, trying to see if it was actually a sneaky spell that pushed up from below, but there was nothing to interfere with. She swung herself back on top of the cushion, and it was solid as a rock.

The [Mage] seemed incredibly smug as Jelaqua inadvertently sold the enchantment better than he ever could. As it lowered her down, he spoke.

“Invest in your old age or just add a phenomenal new spell to your home today!”

Speechless, the Selphid stood there. She stared down at the levitating cushion and felt, suddenly, old. And young.

This is magic of a kind we never had. Everyone was wide-eyed, gathering around it. It made her feel like a Bronze-rank adventurer seeing a [Fireball] for the first time. And Jelaqua thought—

If this is what they’re coming out with now, what will the world be in a year’s time? Who the hell is this Archmage Eldavin?

He was truly an Archmage like the old ones, then. Jelaqua wondered, as the [Mage] began informing people they had backlog on orders and receiving his first requests—

How much money is Wistram making on all this?



——



Jelaqua went drinking that night. Not because she was depressed about the advancement of magical technology—that was actually fun. She just…had nothing else to do.

Seriously, she was as bored as a leech on a War Walker’s back. The Selphid took a mug of ale in hand and sat herself down at Tails and Scales, savoring a hot fry-up of noodles and meat from Lasica. Rufelt was at the bar, slinging drinks, and she was grousing to her only friend in Pallass. Acquaintance? Bar-partner?

Her team was gone. Jelaqua drank deep from the ale, then began to eat with the chopsticks.

“I just feel like there’s more to life than breaking in the new bedspread, you know? Not that I mind that. I reckon we’re going for one to three times a day. Two on average.”

“Uh huh. Wow. That seems like…a lot?”

Jelaqua frowned as she slurped up some noodles. Rufelt glanced at her and her partner; he was probably listening, but busy, and he seemed to like her. Her partner…well, they both were allowed in here.

“Maughin sometimes says so, but I don’t hear him stopping me, you know? I think he’s just worried I’m forcing myself to do it. Which—not the case. Dullahans get a bit prudish about sex. But between you and me—we’re all over it. Positions and everything.”

“P-positions?”

Her partner was eating their stir-fry and listening hard. Jelaqua lifted two fingers.

“Yep. He knew two. But we were doing this yesterday. And then this—wait, I need both hands for that.”

Even Rufelt had to turn and stare. After a second, the young man sitting next to Jelaqua swallowed.

“Whoa. Doesn’t that—take a lot of effort?”

She winked at Troydel.

“Selphids don’t get tired. And a [Smith]’s got stamina for days. So where was I? Right, the sex. You can really switch it up. Like—today I’m a Drake. Yesterday, I was a Human. Makes a difference.”

“R-really?”

She nodded, and Troydel’s cheeks were red as he listened. Jelaqua wondered if this was her life now. Troydel, the Earther who worked as an [Engineer] in Pallass, was her only friend.

Barmate.

Whatever. He definitely seemed really interested in all her talk about sex, which she had to admit, she was probably more open about than most women he’d met. She drained her mug.

“It’s a lot of fun, but you can’t fill an entire day with sex. Well, you can—but then he gets sore, and without healing potions—Maughin has work. So what do you do between all of that?”

She had no job. Jelaqua slumped at the bar.

“We do plenty of stuff together; it’s not that Maughin doesn’t make time. But I need a hobby for myself, you know? He’s happy to either be together or alone. If I’m not around, he’s always working on his mistress over a hot fire.”

Troydel and Rufelt both turned to stare at Jelaqua until they recalled she was talking about the block of Adamantium that Pelt had given Maughin. She called that his mistress, which had resulted in a number of very funny misunderstandings…

“How’s the Adamantium going? No one in the Engineer’s Guild says we’ve got that.”

Troydel swallowed his bite of food, and Jelaqua shrugged.

“Eh, he’s figured out how hot it needs to be to forge. So hot he can’t do it, not in Pallass. He nearly melted a hole into the 9th Floor—wait, speaking of, there’s my big lad!”

She saw the familiar figure bow his head as he entered Tails and Scales. Maughin smiled when he saw her; he was covered in soot and smelled of smoke.

“Jelaqua, I thought you were here. I finished early.”

“Maughin!”

She leapt up, and he eyed her mostly-finished plate. Troydel waved at him, and Maughin nodded to him with little more than brief recollection.

“Do you want to sit here or…?”

“I’ve got dinner for you! Let’s go back to our home. You’re filthy! Rufelt—”

“I’ve got your tab, Jelaqua.”

Rufelt waved at her, and Jelaqua followed Maughin outside, beaming.

“So, how was work?”

He grimaced.

“Boring. And I had a setback with my new smelter and forge. I can’t get anyone willing to build me an Adamantium Forge—no one knows how! All the [Engineers] are too busy, somehow. For Adamantium?”

He began complaining, and Jelaqua listened sympathetically.

“You’d think they’d want it.”

“I would, but something’s going on. The Guildmaster of the Engineer’s Guild, Chief Bellien, told me everything’s being diverted. And I can’t forge it without something far hotter than even a Mithril Forge! I just don’t know how, and I’ve had the block for months…I’m failing Master Pelt’s expectations.”

“Come on, Maughin, don’t get down. You’re not a failure. It’s Adamantium. If you learned to forge it in ten years, you’d still be on-track!”

She was then preoccupied with cheering up her husband, and she guided him back up as he grumbled about wheel axles and a new [Apprentice] who wasn’t pulling his weight. Jelaqua was glad to fuss over Maughin and hear him out. She got him dinner in his home and helped clean his armor.

And then they had sex.



——



The next day, Jelaqua saw Maughin off for work without his mother, which was a relief. She stood in their entryway for a long moment when he was gone, then scratched at her head.

I have nothing to do today. Nor did she want to wander Pallass. So there was only one thing she could think of. The thing she’d been avoiding.

She took a breath, then steeled herself. Jelaqua marched out the door, then came back in and double-checked she had the Demas Metal flail in her bag of holding.

Just in case.



——



The Wandering Inn hurt like an open wound. It was laid open; a product of the latest disaster, apparently.

She didn’t know.

She hadn’t been visiting. When Liska saw her come through the door from Pallass, she waved Jelaqua back.

“Hey, no need to pay! [Ignore Restrictions: Magnolia’s Fees]. Good to see you, Jelaqua!”

“Thanks.”

Jelaqua smiled weakly at the Gnoll. But the Selphid didn’t enter the inn right away. She stood in the entry hallway for a long time, listening to the rain falling.

Here…no, they hadn’t died here. They’d died at Liscor’s northern gates. She should leave some flowers there, though the rain would wash them away. Here was where a lot of smiles had taken place. Some tears, some Crelers.

Jelaqua walked towards the door and hesitated. She rested a hand on the wood—then stepped aside swiftly. An Antinium nearly ran over her.

Rosencrantz? The Worker recoiled and then smiled.

“Miss Ivirith, you have come to the inn! Welcome! It has been so long.”

“Hey, Rosencrantz. I’m just stopping by. Sorry I wasn’t here for the…”

Jelaqua waved a hand, but the Antinium was opening the door wider. She hesitated.

I shouldn’t be here. I don’t even know if someone died—I didn’t come running when the Goblin King emerged. She’d thought about it, but Maughin had seemed so afraid that she’d just stood outside the door to Pallass and…let the [Soldiers] run through first. Not that it had been open, but she hadn’t gone. Not like Saliss.

Yet the Antinium was beaming at her.

“Let me get a good table for you. Please, enter! Miss Lyonette will be so happy, and Miss Mrsha. You have been gone for so l—”

Then he froze. Gazed at her as Jelaqua lowered her eyes.

“Oh.”

Yeah. The last Halfseeker in Pallass followed Rosencrantz to a table, and she saw his demeanor shift. To anxiety. To uncertainty. He didn’t know how to treat her.

Moore was dead. Ulinde was dead. They had fought willingly, but Seborn had just…left. No arguments, no fights like normal. He and she hadn’t killed each other with recriminations. She deserved it, but he always knew how to twist the blade.

They could have run. They hadn’t. And they had paid that final price.

The Halfseekers were done. She hoped he was doing okay.

Jelaqua stared blankly at a menu and saw, out of the corner of her eye, Rosencrantz hurry over to another familiar face. Peggy. He whispered into her ear, and she brightened and began to wave at Jelaqua—then froze.

She and Rosencrantz glanced at each other, then began whispering furiously and pointing. The Selphid nodded to herself.

Yeah. How the hell do you talk to me? She didn’t know how. Erin would come over, and they’d probably cry or brawl, but this was…hard. She wasn’t part of this inn anymore. She was a visitor, a friend, she hoped, but now she was a Pallassian.

After a while, the two servers sent someone over to her. Asgra. The Cave Goblin peered up at Jelaqua as she shoved a glass of water and menu onto the table.

“Hey, Jelaqua.”

“Hi, Asgra. How are you doing?”

“Um. Good? You is gone for a long time.”

The Cave Goblin glanced at Peggy, who made motions at her. Jelaqua pretended not to see as she forced a smile.

“Sorry about that. And missing the Goblin King thing…how’s the inn?”

Anyone die? She wondered who’d tell her. Asgra clenched at her apron.

“Is, uh, is good. You weren’t there, right. You didn’t visit afterwards?”

“No. Sorry.”

The Cave Goblin stared up at her, and Jelaqua avoided her gaze. Asgra’s eyes darted to Peggy.

“So you, uh, not visit since before the pala—the, uh, Goblin King? And not since? Not once?”

“No.”

“Oh. Okay. Right…I just go over here for a second. You order food! On the house!”

Asgra ran off, and Jelaqua saw all three staff members begin pointing furiously, stare at her, and go running away. She sat there for another minute, gazing at the menu, then pushed herself up.

“Hells, I can’t do this.”

She moved away from the table and headed for the door. She could see how hard this was for them. Someone had died, and they knew she was in mourning.

She shouldn’t have come back.

The old days would never come back. Jelaqua walked past a young man who dodged around her with an open-mouth, but she was too upset to say hello, if she knew him. The dead haunted her memories.

Ulinde, Moore, Kevin…someday, she’d be strong enough to return.

Not today.



——



Jelaqua left flowers at Liscor’s northern gates. There was a small place for them, an altar the Watch had not cleared away. There were, in fact, other flowers there.

That hurt in a good way. She left them—then looked around Liscor, but she couldn’t stay. The Selphid went back to Pallass, and this time, without anything to do, she went to Tails and Scales to drink.



——



…It was closed, obviously. The bar opened in the evenings. So Jelaqua wandered the city, looking for a place to drink. The trick wasn’t in the open bar itself; there were plenty. It was in finding one not filled with either [Soldiers] carousing before being shipped off to the New Lands campaigns, or mourning the dead of 2nd Army—or both.

Jelaqua had gone to the first funerals with Maughin. By now, she avoided the processions of people wearing white. She knew they were still grieving, but she couldn’t give them her honest emotions. She wasn’t unsympathetic or gleeful; never. But nor could she mourn them.

She knew what they’d gone into the High Passes to do. Whenever she saw a child walking along, Jelaqua had a vision of Goblin children and had to look away.

It was a war. She had been a [Mercenary] Captain. There was never one she’d felt proud of fighting. So, whenever she entered a bar with people wearing white armbands, she just walked back out.

As for the [Soldiers] leaving for the New Lands—Jelaqua hoped that Pallass’ armies could take care of the grunts. She really did. By now, everyone knew about the magic and food issues, so she hoped that at least this wave would be better prepared.

I’m retired. I can’t put my finger on any of this. I’ll just have a damn drink, go back, give Maughin the night of his life, and…continue.

It was so damn hard. And she’d done it oh so many times.



——



Jelaqua finally found another bar on the 6th Floor, near the Engineer’s Guild. It was named Discombobulated Theorem, and they served her drink in a mug with a gear on it. In fact, they had a complicated mechanism where you pulled on a lever and the drinks sloshed down a funnel into the right mug that was ejected from a dispenser.

In practice, it made all the drinks taste sort of the same because they used the same slide. Jelaqua didn’t care. It was midmorning, and she was…well, not alone in the bar.

A bunch of [Engineers] were actually sitting around. [Mechanics], [Architects], [Builders]—Jelaqua was surprised by how many of them were having a drink for lunch.

“Hey, lads. I thought you had to be sober to work in the guild.”

She tried to jest with a few of them, and the first [Engineers] raised their heads looking like they were spoiling for a fight. But something about Jelaqua was good at defusing the situation. As if you could sense she was jocular—or that she could put your head through a wall with one hand. After a moment, one of the [Engineers] jerked a head.

“What’s there to work on? Pull up a chair if you want, Miss. Why are you here in the middle of the day?”

“Retired adventurer. What’s your excuse?”

The Gnoll had grease on his fur and the yellow suit of a Pallassian [Engineer], which always got stained with oil. It was a mark of pride, but he growled as he leaned over his cup.

“There’s not enough projects to work on.”

Jelaqua laughed softly.

“Crocodile dick. This is the City of Inventions! I know for a fact that my husband—he’s a [Smith]—can’t get your Guild to do anything.”

The other [Engineers] at the table were two Drakes, a Garuda, and a Human. Not Troydel; they were a bit older. Veteran engineers? All the odder. All of them glowered.

“What he means is there’s no projects, Miss. No budget for it. And if there’s nothing approved, there’s no work. At least, nothing that isn’t shit. Everyone’s either being told to build forts in the New Lands or work on some hush-hush project that only the top-levels work on…or we’re sitting around with barely more than maintenance work!”

That did shock Jelaqua. She eyed the talkative speaker, a Drake.

“How’s that? You’re one of Pallass’ two main forces. Between you and the alchemists, I heard you lot never stopped. Why’s no one approving more projects?”

“We can’t get funding. The Assembly of Crafts gives us work as well as common citizens. But right now, no one wants anything, so we’re saving money. No offense to your husband, but if it’s a project that might require city funding or cost more than we know, it’s not going to get approved. The Guild is in damage-control mode. All because of those bastards at Wistram.”

Everyone in the bar nodded, and Jelaqua felt a light spell activate in her head.

“Oh. Oh. Their new magic?”

All of the [Engineers] glared. The Gnoll raised a paw.

“Their fucking new magic, Miss. Did you see it? Did you see—? Those traitors in the Mage’s Guild are saying it’s better than our work! Because it is!”

He threw up his paws, and half the day-drinkers tossed things at him, but the Gnoll growled around.

“I saw their lifting spells! I jumped up and down on that pillow like I was riding a horse, and it didn’t budge! Some idiot in the crowd asked me if I could build a lifting elevator in their house like that. Soundless? Without any extra space needed? I laughed at him until he turned around and bought a levitating pillow!”

Jelaqua winced. Pallass was famous for its elevators and its gear-based inventions, though!

“Okay, but that’s one thing. There’s plenty for you to make, right?”

Dead silence. One of the Drakes leaned over.

“It’s like Wistram is trying to kill us. We were working on a new concept from the Kid—this moving floor.”

“Shh, don’t tell her that!”

“Shut it, what does it matter? It’s cancelled! Wistram came out with a moving floor spell like they knew we were working on it! Winches and pulleys? How about a dead gods damned anti-gravity rune? Just slap it on a crate of ore and throw it up a floor!”

Oh. Jelaqua remembered seeing those runes. The [Engineers] were practically shaking. With nerves as much as anger.

“The Assembly told Chief Bellein they were thinking of cutting our budget to invest in that.”

“They can’t do that! You’re Pallass’ pride!”

The [Bartender] himself seemed shocked and joined the conversation, but one of the [Engineers] waved a bleary claw at him.

“If the results show that we can’t beat magic, you can’t argue with them. And we can’t. Hells, if that magic lasts ten years, you might as well replace every elevator in Pallass with one of them.”

One of Jelaqua’s drinking partners raised a mug to throw, then lapsed into silence. The Selphid cast around, and it was so damn gloomy in here she felt like she was in apt company. Silently, she slapped a few coins on the table.

“Get me a round for the table, bartender. There’s got to be something, lads. Surely there’s something you can make that magic can’t?”

They regarded each other. One shook her head.

“Even the Kid has no ideas. It’s like all of his ideas are the ones Wistram has—I never thought I’d want him to roll on over to Bellein with a new design, but I’m begging for it. Hells, even that Eye of Pallass was turning all the charms up on him.”

The Gnoll grunted as he drained his mug.

“Hells, I’ll sleep with him if it gets us work!”

Everyone laughed at that and pelted him with mugs. One of the others shouted.

“You want us all to get killed on a zipline? I nominate Oilene!”

“I nominate your sister, Markk!”

“I nominate Markk’s mother!”

That, at least, was funny. Jelaqua grinned until she peered out the window and realized the sun was setting.

“Oh shit, I have to go make dinner!”

Somewhat unsteadily, she got up and ran back to her home. Jelaqua threw together a decent meal, and when Maughin trooped in, she was smiling.

He was gloomy.

“Jelaqua, I just heard the Engineering Guild is in a crisis! Chief Bellein told me I might as well pay Wistram for the forge I need—but I can’t muster that kind of money! The Mage’s Guildmaster himself said it’d cost tens of thousands of gold pieces!”

“I heard about that. Oh, Maughin—c’mere, you. Surely you could build it yourself? I could help with—”

He was shaking his head.

“It’s not just gold, Jelaqua. The amount of heat it’ll take—I don’t know where to begin, Jelaqua. It’s more than just making a bunch of steel. The Adamantium will melt steel like butter in a crucible! How could you…? Well, I have some ideas there, but not for a forge! How was your day?”

Jelaqua hesitated as she tried not to let him smell her breath.

“Oh—you know—I was hanging out with friends.”

“You made some?”

He smiled in relief. She changed the subject fast and got him seated while he complained.

“If only someone would allocate funding back to the [Engineers]! I don’t understand. Maybe magic is more efficient, but Pallass is the City of Inventions, not the City of Incantations! And even they can’t keep up! I hear they’re buying Wistram magic and trying to reverse-engineer it!”

Talking out his woes over dinner took the rest of the evening. Jelaqua swore she’d try to help Maughin…somehow.

“I know! What if I tried to talk to someone important, Maughin? There’s got to be someone who knows a [Senator] or two. I’ll do that; you just work on your end.”

She gave him a huge smile, and he perked up a bit.

And then they had sex.



——



Jelaqua felt like she was going a tiny bit crazy the next morning. Just a bit. She felt like one of those poor pets they sold in stores. The edible rats. Well, they were all edible. What were they called?

Hamsters. One of them spinning in a wooden wheel. Looking forwards to parts of her day, but going in a circle.

Maybe I should have a kid. Just do a bit of splitting…only, Maughin wouldn’t be part of that. And getting another Selphid to split themselves—no. Maybe they could adopt a kid?

Selphids were one of the few species that there were no fertility spells for. A Dullahan and Centaur would have a baby with far more ease than a Selphid could ever really bear a child with another species’ help. Jelaqua put that out of her head as soon as she had the idea.

She wasn’t ready for that. Managing companies of, well, older children had taught her that it was a stressful life that didn’t solve things. She had to figure this out for herself, and one way that actually did help was trying to resolve Maughin’s issue.

Jelaqua was no well-connected genius. She didn’t have the ear of a [Senator], and Maughin knew a few representatives of the Smithing Guild, but he was already using them. In lieu of ideas, Jelaqua did the only thing she could: she wrote letters to the women she’d met in the brunch and asked them for help, then sent them out via Street Runner.

It was an awkward thing to ask, and Jelaqua was fully prepared for rejection, but the Gold-rank Captain had done far harder things, like begging for gold from clients—this was easy.

Okay, having Linteca trot up with one of the rejection letters wasn’t fun. The Dullahan handed Jelaqua with a knowing gaze.

“Arranging a lunch date, Miss Ivirith?”

Jelaqua snapped back at her.

“No, I’m trying to help Maughin, Linteca! To build his new Adamantium Forge!”

The [Street Runner] wilted slightly in the face of Jelaqua’s actual annoyance. Embarrassed, the Gold-ranker toned down her glare. She shouldn’t do that to civilians. They weren’t her level. She was turning into a real monster in her retirement, like the others.

I can’t do this. I can’t just be one of that lot, who gets married, settles down, and then two years later they’re divorced and back to adventuring. I won’t.

Linteca hesitated—then nodded silently, almost in apology, and trotted off. Jelaqua gloomily sorted through the polite rejection letters, which she knew for a fact you could just get the Runner’s Guild to write for you. Even for Street Runners, it cost gold to send that many letters out!

I should just go bother a [Senator] in person. Though people are still shouting at them about Edellein…how can I help Maughin? Who would know how to convince the Assembly of Crafts or build what he needs?

She had no idea, except maybe a few [Smiths] she’d known, but they weren’t as good as they needed to be. There was only one place that might serve…

The inn.

Before Jelaqua confronted that idea, she was saved—Linteca came running back, breathless.

“Jelaqua, I have something for you. It’s not a rejection letter—I know the stationery. Here!”

She shoved a letter into Jelaqua’s hands. Surprised, the Drake blinked down at the bright blue card and opened it.



Dear Jelaqua, I would love to have a brunch to chat! Would you be interested in coming to my mansion?

—Melika Blackwing



Melika? Jelaqua remembered the Garuda, then brightened up. She began to scribble a reply, then turned to Linteca.

“Wait, where does Melika live?”



——



Melika and Werdin’s mansion was one of the biggest in Pallass. The open skylight, the actual greenery—Jelaqua stared up at it, open-mouthed, and then when someone came to the gates and led her in, she stared at the tree planted in the courtyard until Melika shouted down.

“Jelaqua! I was just setting up brunch! Come on up!”

She was fluttering down from the 2nd floor. Jelaqua strode up the carpeted staircase, staring at the servants and the richness of this place.

“Er, I’m not interrupting, am I, Melika?”

The Garuda was all smiles, and she had more food—fruits snacks from Oteslia and some nuts you could chew on while they sat on a huge veranda staring down across Pallass.

It was richer even than the last place they’d been, and Jelaqua shifted awkwardly, but she’d been in clients’ households before. Melika laughed gaily.

“Not at all! I don’t have that much weighing on my time. I just have the charity fundraiser later tonight—I contribute to a few of them, you know, since I have no job. Aside from that, I mostly just keep up the house and attend social gatherings like the one we were at! But it does get tiring after a time, doesn’t it? Everyone’s gossiping about the New Lands and so stressed…that was the seventeenth one this month!”

The [Socialite] stretched her neck. Jelaqua opened her mouth.

“We’re barely eight days into the month.”

“I know! That’s life in the upper echelons of Pallass, Miss Ivirith. You don’t have to participate, of course. Some of our most famous members refuse to touch high society. But there are benefits. How have you found married life?”

They were talking before Jelaqua knew it. She had a Human body on today and shrugged self-consciously.

“Eh, it’s not hard. That’s sort of the problem. Keeping Maughin and myself fed, managing a household, that’s the kind of stuff I could do blindfolded as a Gold-rank Captain. Then it’s just filling time between making meals. Which, what can you do? I was jumping Maughin’s bones while we were on honeymoon, but now he’s working.”

She realized she might be slightly indecorous and crude, but Melika was rolling with Jelaqua’s more straightforward style in the best example of her class. She laughed, then sighed ruefully.

“I’m afraid that you wouldn’t get much sympathy from our peers. But then, they’re managing a far larger home, Jelaqua. Between finances, a garden, a child—”

“Oh, right. You get one of those and it’s never enough time. Do you have one?”

Melika paused.

“A stepdaughter from Werdin’s last marriage. Salkis. She’s a lovely girl, but in her young adult years, you know? Rebellious, seldom checks in. I worry about her, but I can’t do much. She and Werdin fight like Drake and Gnoll whenever they’re together. I try to play peacemaker, but I think she doesn’t like me much.”

She wore a sad smile, and Jelaqua shook her head. Former marriage? She shouldn’t have asked.

“Ah, well, I appreciate you taking the time to discuss Maughin’s problem. I suspect you’ll tell me it’ll take time and maybe it’s too hard to get the Assembly of Crafts to change their mind, but I have to do something for Maughin. He’s passionate about that, and if he doesn’t actually do something with his mistress, I think he’ll explode.”

The Selphid saw Melika’s eyes widen and realized her mistake.

“Sorry, sorry! I meant that hunk of Adamantium, not an actual mistress…”

The Garuda coughed on her tea and then began laughing as she caught her breath. Jelaqua grinned, orange-cheeked, as Melika shook her head.

“Adventurer Jelaqua, you are a breath of fresh air. May I confess that I’m so impressed by you?”

“Me? I doubt you’ve heard of the Halfseekers.”

Jelaqua waved it off, but Melika insisted.

“No, I have! Of course I have! Your team was so famous across Izril, north and south! You were adventuring twenty years ago when I was a chick…we don’t have that many in Pallass, you know, and none at all in high society, really. I tried to talk to Captain Bevussa, but I rather fear she didn’t like me, and it’s not easy being in Pallass as a Garuda…”

Oh, she knew Bevussa was actually the Captain of the Wings of Pallass? Well, she might as a Garuda. Jelaqua shrugged.

“Isn’t Saliss of Lights around?”

“Yes…but who can talk to him? You’re the friendliest Gold-ranker Captain I’ve met, Miss Jelaqua.”

Well, compared to Halrac, Todi, Ceria…Jelaqua might well actually be that since Ylawes would never have come to Pallass. She scratched at the back of her head.

“I’m just a former Gold-ranker, Melika, if I can call you that. I’m trying to be a good [Wife] for Maughin, you know? I’m too low-level, but…”

She saw Melika stiffen a bit and stopped grinning self-deprecatingly.

“What?”

“You—have the class? [Wife]?”

The Garuda seemed suddenly worried, and Jelaqua shrugged, embarrassed.

“I’m only Level 11. [Loving Wife]. You know—”

“Oh. Oh my word.”

Melika’s eyes widened, and she fluttered her wings at the table, shedding a few feathers. She stared at Jelaqua.

“Really? You have [Loving Wife]? Not [Trophy Wife] or—and it’s just that? Not…colored?”

Ah. The Selphid put down her cup and stretched as she gazed over her shoulders.

“Nope. Just [Loving Wife] from [Lover]. It’s actually a pretty bad class—I got the big class consolidation after really jumping Maughin, so now we keep doing it like Corusdeer in hopes I’ll level up. Good excuse for the both of us, anyways.”

She winked at Melika. There was a joke amongst adventurers that jumping into bed together helped you level. In practice, it was probably that adventurers got together after moments of extreme stress and danger, so that was when you tended to hear a levelup, but Melika was just gazing at Jelaqua, thoughtful. Her next words cut Jelaqua like a blade.

“You actually love him, don’t you? Master Maughin? When I heard about the engagement, I did think it was odd given what I know of Dullahan culture.”

The Selphid paused and eyed the Garuda. She was resplendent, her feathers groomed, in one of those toga-style dresses, wearing jewelry, the height of beauty, sophistication, and society.

Jelaqua Ivirith took her measure in an instant now that she had a read on Melika.

“I wouldn’t marry someone I didn’t love. Is it that uncommon in high society? With you and Werdin?”

Melika avoided Jelaqua’s gaze, fiddling with a fork and spearing a strawberry on her plate.

“You can learn it. Skills help, if you’re so inclined.”

“Sounds miserable.”

“Well, not everyone can be a fighter!”

The Garuda sounded too-defensive, and Jelaqua bet she’d heard that before. The Selphid lifted hands in apology.

“I didn’t mean to imply…it’s just a choice.”

“Thank you, Captain. I just didn’t have the talents in other classes to be an artisan, warrior, or—anything else. This has afforded me a life many would envy. It is a choice. If I could have, I might have been an adventurer, but it’s an impossibility for me. I can barely lift an ornamental sword, let alone a real one!”

Melika looked greatly defensive, and this would be a fine moment to apologize—if the Selphid did that. Instead, Jelaqua just stared across Pallass where she could see some Garuda and Oldblood Drakes flying. Pallass had, as a Walled City, lots of Oldbloods. She murmured.

“Not everyone can be a [Fighter], it’s true. But anyone can be a [Mercenary]. Besides, ornamental swords are usually heavier than real ones. If you wanted to start up the life, you could do it tomorrow. Might be harder in Izril since they’re rarer, but I believe you could do it.”

She met Melika’s eyes, and the Garuda laughed.

“I’d be dead in a weekend, Miss Ivirith.”

“Maybe. Or maybe not. It’s the kind of thing anyone can do if they’re desperate enough. I’ve known [Mercenaries] who started older than I am. In their sixties, that is. Old women who couldn’t swing daggers straight who learn the life. You can be a leader or use a wand—if you’re fighting to get to the next day, anyone can do it. Don’t sell yourself short. And don’t let me imply I’m downtalking marrying into a cushy life. I’d have done it when I was a kid, to get out of my no-name village, in a heartbeat. It’s not easy doing that either.”

Jelaqua hoped she wasn’t offending the Garuda, and the ruffled feathers on Melika began to lower slightly, a good sign. Melika pecked at a few seeds in a big spoon, then cleared her throat.

“Thank you for that vote of confidence, Jelaqua. I—I suppose I’m a bit sensitive about the subject. This is from Baleros?”

Jelaqua nodded easily.

“Oh, yeah, home. But it’s like that everywhere. I’ve been on Chandrar all of two years—too hot for me. I hated rotting in the sun, but making a living like that, the rough work, is possible from Chandrar to lovely Terandria.”

Everyone needed [Mercenaries], even the nicest kingdoms. Melika appeared patently envious and leaned forwards.

“You’ve been to Chandrar? May I ask what it’s like? I’ve always wanted to visit, you know—home.”

The way she said it was with that longing Jelaqua was familiar with. The Selphid glanced at Melika.

“You’re Pallass-born?”

“Ever since I was a chick, yes. I’ve always meant to go, but, well, Werdin isn’t interested, and he’s far too busy, and I can’t just up and leave at any moment. Plenty of my friends have gone, and they say visiting the Shield City of Qualvekkaras or flying with a Garuda tribe is eye-opening. Sometimes…discouraging, but I wanted to know if I’d feel the call. I don’t know my home, you see. I wonder if something would awaken in me if I were to fly under Chandrar’s skies.”

There was that longing in Melika’s eyes, like a caged bird, that Jelaqua didn’t like. Because it seemed to the Selphid that was how the Garuda viewed herself. The Selphid coughed into a fist.

“This may be out of turn, Melika. But if you’re thinking of Chandrar as some miraculous land where you’ll find yourself—in my experience, you don’t, usually. Home is where you are. Something you make. Not something people tell you or a place you have to be. Take it from me, a Halfseeker. Home is where my team is. Home is Pallass. I miss Baleros at times, but just because I’d like to kick around the cities there. Not because it’s where I should be.”

She gave the Garuda woman an embarrassed smile, berating herself for sounding so preachy, like she was back with the Halfseekers again. Melika sat with her beaked mouth open and then stared at Jelaqua again.

“Oh my. That sounds so—I feel a bit better for hearing that. I am in the presence of the Halfseekers’ Captain, aren’t I? For a second there, I felt like I was a child hearing your team! Was that the speech you used to give when you toured Drake cities?”

Jelaqua turned so orange her skin lit up.

“What? Damn it, you remember that?”

“Captain, I told you, I remember the Halfseekers! When you were a Silver-rank team with your original teammates, going around and adventuring on behalf of the few—I saw you in Pallass when your team visited! I was twelve, and my mother had no idea why I wanted to see a Silver-rank team so bad.”

Jelaqua stared up at the ceiling. Dead gods, when was that? Twenty years ago? Moore wouldn’t have joined, then, and not Seborn…

She’d been an adventurer so long. Melika was going on, blushing herself under her feathers.

“It meant something to have a team like yours. You had Scorchlings and that half-Elf with you—”

“Jumpin’ Jiorf.”

“Yes! And you’d go to cities and take on quests on behalf of those who needed it.”

Jelaqua nodded, lost in memories. And it paid like shit. No matter what Ylawes claimed. Or maybe Drakes were stingier than Humans.

But it had been good. Melika went on, lowering her voice.

“When I heard about Garen, I…I’m so sorry. I always thought it was the most extraordinary thing, Captain Jelaqua. Your team was practically Named-rank. Except for having a Goblin, I think it should have been.”

“Maybe. But that was then.”

More regrets. Jelaqua blinked the visions from her eyes, and Melika went on.

“That’s part of why I work with my charity, you see. We give money to those in need and even to children with health-conditions due to—you should visit! You’d be such an inspiration to them!”

Jelaqua started and began to protest.

“Aw, no. I’m nothing inspiring.”

“Please, Miss Jelaqua? It would mean so much for a Gold-rank adventurer to visit them…”

The pleading gleam in the Garuda’s eyes, and also the knowledge that she’d been a fan of the Halfseekers, meant Jelaqua couldn’t refuse. Well, now she had more stuff to do.

And it was honestly good to have a friend in Melika, a real one. The Garuda promised to talk to a few [Senators], though she admitted it was hard.

“Everyone is fully on board the Wistram magic craze. When they realize we’re just giving money to Wistram and none is coming into the city, it will reverse. It’s a silly trend, and those are hard to shake without something exciting that looks good, Captain Jelaqua. But please let me invite you to more brunches? I would greatly love to be a friend with my heroine.”

She gave Jelaqua a shy smile. In response, the Selphid offered her a two-fingered salute and a real grin.

“Now you’re making me feel old, Melika. I’d be delighted.”

And she meant it. Jelaqua’s heart rose as the odds of Maughin’s forge decreased, but she truly did love having a friend.

Inspiring. It was good to know that’s what the Halfseekers had been. It had been such a funny idea from a down-on-her-luck Selphid that no one wanted to party with. A depressed Jelaqua who’d looked around and realized someone needed to smile at people who didn’t fit in.

“Argh. Thirty years. We did it, lads and lasses.”

She stretched outside of Melika’s mansion and raised a thumb as the Garuda waved her off. Jelaqua turned her head, and her teammates stood behind her, a vision so much more ephemeral than Erin’s statues. But more permanent than even the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Written onto her soul.

The Selphid whistled as she walked into Pallass.



——-



A [Guardsman] arrested Jelaqua six minutes later. She was in line for the one place she knew she could go, had to go: The Wandering Inn.

It was easier these days. You just gave your passport, and there were four doors operating on the 8th Floor checkpoint. Get past the security—and it was easy on the way out, harder on the way in—and then you just waited for the door to open in the nice lobby.

The Watch was there to keep order, of course, and an officer would walk down the line inspecting people casually. But today, a female Drake halted. She checked something and then gestured.

“Miss? Please step out of line.”

“Who, me?”

Jelaqua blinked, but she complied, and the officer asked her name, checked her passport, which was four times as long as anyone else’s—Jelaqua had to register every dead body she had—and then nodded.

“We’re detaining you temporarily, Miss. Please stand here.”

“What? But what did I do?”

“Miss, please step over there.”

Everyone was staring at her. Jelaqua complied as the Drake spoke into a speaking stone and then eyed Jelaqua as if she’d done something wrong. The Selphid soon realized the [Guards] had no idea why she was being apprehended—but she didn’t have long to wait.

“Right here, Agent.”

Someone came striding down the street towards her, and Jelaqua turned as a Drake in civilian clothes, looking like an [Engineer] of all things, flashed a badge.

“I’ll take it from here, [Guardswoman]. Thank you. This way, Miss Ivirith—”

She would have steered Jelaqua off just with that, but the Drake coughed into one fist, nervous.

“Agent, your papers? New protocols.”

The Drake, who was slightly familiar now that Jelaqua was squinting, pulled a face. Visibly annoyed, she fished out a handful of papers, and the [Guard] had to fuss over them for a good six minutes while speaking into a stone before they could go.

“Damn Fissival idiots.”

That had to be because of the Zevara incident. Another thing Jelaqua had to catch up on at the inn—she needed to buy that Drake a drink! The Eye of Pallass pulled Jelaqua away and then nodded.

“We’re bound for the 10th floor. Follow me, Miss Ivirith.”

“What? Why?”

“Pallass’ business. I’ll explain on the way.”

The Drake strode eighteen steps before she realized Jelaqua wasn’t following. She turned and glared, annoyed. The Selphid was standing in the street, arms folded.

She recognized this agent now. Even wearing the guise of an [Engineer], she didn’t quite fit in.

Maybe it was intentional. She just appeared a bit too sharp, too professional for the outfit she wore. She had light green scales, but Jelaqua bet they could change at a moment’s notice, and short-cropped neck spines. She walked like someone eternally on business, a step faster than anyone else—and this was in a Walled City—and spoke like she outranked everything and everyone, they just didn’t know it yet.

Zemize. She strode back to Jelaqua.

“Captain Jelaqua, on the authority of Pallass—”

“I’m not moving until you tell me what’s going on.”

Jelaqua was no pushover civilian. She was a Gold-rank Captain, and Zemize began to snap, then eyed the Selphid’s annoyed composure. She hesitated, sighed loudly, then jerked her head.

“I have a Pegasus waiting to go, Adventurer Jelaqua, and we’re thirty minutes behind schedule! I was searching for you, and we have multiple damn carriages from Wistram who’ll be way ahead of us—carriages from Wistram.”

She said it like that was a particularly stupid thing, and Jelaqua just raised her brows.

“I’m not flying anywhere. If you have an adventuring problem…”

Zemize drew closer and lowered her voice, ominous.

“Nothing of the sort. This is a safe mission, though one you’ll be sworn to silence on. And that you’re uniquely qualified for on multiple levels. It’s your own fault, Captain.”

She gave Jelaqua a semi-sympathetic, unsympathetic eye as the Selphid frowned at her. What could she have done…? Zemize jerked her head.

“Come on. You had to know being friends with Troydel had consequences.”

“Wait, what?”



——



Troydel’s best friend was sitting in a carriage attached to a team of Pegasi ten minutes later. She stared at her best friend in Pallass. He stared back.

“Hey, Jelaqua. Thanks for coming.”

“I didn’t have a choice! They just grabbed—why am I your best friend? What about Joseph, Imani, or—”

Jelaqua furiously gestured at Zemize as the agent slid into the carriage and spoke out the window.

“We’re secure. Seatbelts fastened. Take us up!”

The carriage lurched, and Troydel turned green instantly. Jelaqua felt her own sense of vertigo, but the Selphid just suppressed her body’s biological urges. Zemize took over as Troydel clung to his seat.

“We have a forty-minute flight to the rendezvous point. You were Troydel’s first pick within the city, Miss Jelaqua. We have standing orders not to attempt the inn, and their confidentiality is beyond suspect.”

“Standing orders from whom?”

“The Grand Strategist. Troydel asked for someone to go with him to the meeting. Congratulations.”

Jelaqua turned back to Troydel, who was trying not to look out the window.

“Oh fuck, oh fuck—”

“Where am I going?”

The Selphid shouted so loud one of the Pegasi stared over its shoulder, and the [Driver] called for them to be quiet. Zemize hissed as they fell silent.

“Captain, you are to be discreet, and you are sworn to silence on Pallass’ authority! You will provide moral backup to Troydel, who will gain intelligence for us and act according to the outline I gave him. Troydel, have you memorized the list of prompts? Where’s the packet I gave you?”

“I—I, uh, I think I left it behind!”

He felt around his seat, and Zemize’s eyes bulged.

“You what—”

Jelaqua was glancing from the young Earther to Zemize, who seemed stressed, irate, and fed-up all at once. The Selphid harrumphed.

“There’s no way you two slept together. Let alone you hitting that target three times.”

The Eye of Pallass’ glare could have stripped paint off wood. Troydel turned beet red, and Jelaqua turned her ire on Zemize.

“Where are we going? And if you get cute, I’ll rock this carriage so hard it goes upside-down. I might survive a drop. You won’t.”

That threat made even Zemize get refreshingly honest. She spoke quickly.

“You’re aware, of course, of the Earthers, Captain Jelaqua.”

Erin had never had a full conversation with the Selphid, but she’d kept her ears open. She grunted. Zemize gestured at Troydel.

“Troydel is the only Earther under Pallass’ nominal authority. He is heading to a very secret meeting with—”

She sighed

“Wistram’s magical carriages carrying several other Earthers. Those who have been located by other Walled Cities. Principally Fissival. A…well, just a meeting between them. Any information gleaned from them about their world, technology, or whereabouts of other Earthers is of vital importance. Wistram as well, though it’s out of date.”

Oh. That made sense. Jelaqua blinked at Troydel, who was rubbing at a grease spot on his hands with nerves.

“I can’t do this. I’m stressed, Zemize! Why couldn’t you get Imani or Joseph? Everyone’s going to ask about him or the inn, and I can’t explain shit!”

“I tried to get Coach Joseph, but my superiors vetoed it. He’s not Pallassian.”

Zemize snapped back. Jelaqua just sighed. She put her feet up on the seat.

“So you lot finally figured out the Earther thing, huh? Now you’re all running around? I bet every nation and company, from the Four Great Companies to the smallest kingdom, is doing the same.”

The Agent of Pallass didn’t reply. She just pulled out a file and began to coach Troydel on what to say. But the airsick Earther and Jelaqua weren’t having it. The Selphid put a hand on Zemize’s arm.

“While I’ve got you—why is the Engineering Guild underfunded right now? It better not be because everyone’s buying Wistram magic.”

Troydel and Zemize turned and, interestingly, both developed a sour expression. Zemize grunted.

“That’s a move from the Assembly I don’t agree with. Troydel has been putting out new design plans with solid merits—”

Troydel puffed his chest out, and Zemize added.

“—with copious help and teaching—but Wistram appears to have the same ideas he does. And their magical abilities with Archmage Eldavin are unsurpassed. Accordingly, demand for the Engineer’s Guild has plummeted. It is a problem I think is inadequately addressed. Well, that and they are suffering from a shortage of high-level classes.”

Jelaqua nodded to Troydel.

“Ah, so he’s the ‘Kid’. I thought so. What’s the secret project every high-level [Engineer] is working on?”

The Drake’s glower intensified.

“There are too many loose lips in the Guild—! Argh. If you’re being upgraded to this clearance level, you might as well know the rest. I’ll need to re-issue you a passport later with markings on it. Don’t let me forget. The Engineer’s Guild is working on a joint project with several Walled Cities to reproduce Earth-technology. The most…important piece of it.”

Jelaqua glanced at Troydel, and he spoke helpfully.

“She means guns. I don’t really know how they work, but they had me drawing up designs, and all the [Alchemists] except Saliss are on it; except there’s no sulfur on the markets and stuff.”

Jelaqua whistled. She had no idea what a ‘gun’ was, but she could guess. Zemize’s glower intensified.

“We’re behind some competitors. We don’t know who or how long, but we will catch up. In the meantime…it leaves the Engineer’s Guild sadly short on high-level leadership and jobs. We cannot make this an open project.”

“You’d think with Felkhr, everyone would be commissioning his flying wings or something.”

Jelaqua still remembered the Gnoll soaring through the skies. Troydel glared down at his feet, and Zemize pursed her lips as if to spit out the window. The Earther muttered.

“Yeah, I thought that too. Then Archmage Asshat had to start selling Boots of Flying. Mind you, all of it’s ‘premium’. He’s having monarchs bid against the richest people for everything. But, he says, as soon as he secures ‘more manufacturing resources’, it’ll be in the hands of everyone.”

There was a long moment of silence. Then Jelaqua developed the same expression most [Engineers] of Pallass were wearing.

Sometimes, magic took all the magic out of the world.



——



The Meeting of Earthers had Troydel unhappy. Exactly why, Jelaqua was unclear until he whispered to her. They’d set up a not-at-all conspicuous tent in ‘neutral ground’, and she could see all the guards.

Not literally, but there were too many [Invisibility] spells so the air kept rippling as they walked towards the tent. Jelaqua rolled her eyes.

“Lots of amateurs here. I wonder which city it is? I can see someone’s tail moving there, there’s a parting in the grass there—a shadow there—I bet you could smell half this lot. And then even if they’re all clever and super-invisible, you just know they’re there because of their aura-stuff.”

She threw out an arm casually and clipped someone in the air before they recoiled. Troydel stared at Jelaqua.

“Whoa, you can sense auras? Do you have one?”

She snorted.

“Clams have auras. Can I use mine? Nope. But I picked that trick up back, oh, a decade ago. I never get to use it against invisible enemies. They just never show up when you’re able to counter them.”

“Hah. Good one. Show up.”

“Hm? Oh, ha-ha.”

Troydel was tensing, and Jelaqua nudged him.

“What’s the big deal? You should be happy to see more people from home! I’d have thought you’d be all over them, shooting your shot.”

Zemize shuddered at the mental image. Troydel whispered to Jelaqua.

“Maybe a year ago! But now it’s not—fun. You know? After Erin got killed? It’s not fun pretending to be all that. And what do I tell them? I’m not Joseph. Or Imani! She lost an eye, and she was back to work the next week! I’m just an [Engineer]. Not Kevin, let alone Erin or Ryoka or—”

His mouth shut fast, and he stared at Jelaqua. She missed the gaze and patted him on the shoulder softly.

“Listen, Troydel. You know what you shouldn’t do?”

“Compare myself to others?”

Jelaqua saw the tent beginning to uncamouflage itself as they got closer, a ripple of magical fabric big enough to hold a hundred people easily. She frowned.

“What? No. You should definitely do that so you understand where you are in the world. Below the others? Sure, I won’t argue. But listen.”

She took his shoulder as he glared at her, but her grip was so strong he winced. Jelaqua met Troydel’s gaze.

“You saw Erin die. You know what happened at the Winter Solstice. Even if you weren’t there. You survived this long—and you’re going to hide away and not make the most of seeing people who made it here? You are the kids who made it here.”

She stabbed a finger at the ground.

“No matter how much of it was luck or chance. The lucky living have no right to waste what they’ve got. Now get in there!”

She slapped his back so hard it cracked, and Troydel made a faint sound. But then he glanced at Jelaqua and nodded. Back a bit straighter, he walked into the tent.

“Nice work.”

Zemize murmured to Jelaqua. She was about to vanish when the Selphid grabbed her neck spines.

“Oh no you don’t. You’re going to figure out how many of those kids there are and if they’re being treated well. Not quietly; you’re going to march up to their handlers and ask.”

“Let go of—I am an Agent of Pallass, and each city is operating their own programs—no one is going to just reveal—”

“Are they happy, are they fed, did they bury friends? If the Walled Cities won’t share that, then they’re failing their kids. Get in there.”

Jelaqua practically tossed Zemize through the cloth tentflap. Then she dusted her hands off and turned.

“Anyone else want a pep talk?”

Dead silence from the rippling air and hidden agents. After a moment, a tent pole coughed.

“No thank you, Captain. Can I get an autograph?”

The Selphid signed one, then stomped into the tent.

Kids these days.



——



Inside, Jelaqua saw she had more work to do. Six Walled Cities had rolled up. There were twenty Earthers in the tent.

Twenty. Pallass really was the smallest contingent! Fissival had the most at seven, but every other Walled City had at least two! And yet the idiots inside the tent had all the spy-abilities of the Walled Cities’ best, and all the charisma of Moass.

Because each group of Earthers was standing in their ‘spot’ with items from each Walled City—produce from Oteslia, and a few animals like Shockwoolies and [Druids], weapons from Manus with trainers, etcetera—like some kind of show-and-tell combined with a meet-and-greet.

But it was really like a dance, because each group of Earthers wasn’t talking to the others. A few were waving or making off-handed, too-loud comments, but they were sticking with their handlers because it was inherently awkward.

Too many in the rooms. Too many staring Drakes or Gnolls speaking into stones, monitoring everything, writing it all down. Too hard to cross the invisible barrier of pressure to be people.

Troydel had frozen in his corner with Pallass’ display of alchemical items and miniature dioramas. Jelaqua walked over and called out, loud.

“Hey, Troydel! Introduce me to your friends!”

“Who—?”

She grabbed him by the shoulder and went for it. Jelaqua was a former [Mercenary Captain]. You had to, had to introduce yourself to potential clients and enemies. If you didn’t, well, each person you ignored might decide it was easier to stab you in the back compared to someone you’d had a drink with and who knew your name.

She moved with Troydel across that social barrier like it wasn’t there because it was not. She headed straight for the first Walled City where two rather thin, dark-skinned kids were standing with a lot of Zeresian agents.

“Halt! Earthers only—”

The first Zeresian agent who tried to stop her put an arm in front of Jelaqua, then a hand on her shoulder. Then he skidded across the carpet. Two more tried that—the two boys goggled at Jelaqua as she came over.

One pointed at her face and the glowing orange lines of her body and recoiled.

“¡Su cara! ¿Qué onda? ¿Está mal o qué?”

Jelaqua had no idea what they’d just said. But she smiled and waved, as if they were Drathians at a port.

“Hello! I’m Jelaqua! This is Troydel. Nice to meet you!”

The Zeresian agents were about to drag Jelaqua off, or try, when Zemize blocked them. Good for her. Three more Agents of Pallass appeared, and they scuffled in the background as everyone turned to watch the meeting. Troydel whispered in her ear urgently.

“Jelaqua, that was another language! I think it was Spanish—I don’t speak Spanish!”

“What, not a word? Give it a shot!”

“I’m from Poland! Uh—uh—hello! Hola. Español?”

The two boys grew excited instantly.

“¡Sí, hablamos español! ¿Pero…dónde rayos estamos?”

“¿Tienes un celu que funcione? ¿Son aliens o qué? Espera… creo que ni habla español.”

“Yes, hello! I don’t speak English well.”

They had a strong accent Jelaqua had never heard before. Troydel mimed himself. He spoke with exaggerated slowness, gesticulating.

“I—Troydel. This—Jelaqua. My name is Troydel. Good to meet you. Muchos gracias!”

The two boys glanced at each other, and Jelaqua sighed. She stepped on Troydel’s foot.

“They’re not idiots, Troydel. Hey, hello! Jelaqua Ivirith. Adventurer.”

She stuck out a hand, and one of them blinked, then cautiously took it. He exclaimed at her grip, then smiled gingerly.

“Luis and Inti. Hello! We are…from Peru!”

“Peru!”

Troydel exclaimed, and then the ice broke faster. He pointed at his face.

“I’m from Poland!”

Inti exclaimed.

“Poland! Do you have a phone? “¿Dónde carajo queda Polonia?”

They were having trouble until a Zeresian [Mage] huffily brought something over.

“We communicate by written [Translation] spell. If you write down a question, I can cast the spell…”

Oh, that’s how they did it? Jelaqua gestured at Troydel.

“We’re from Pallass. City of Inventions! Come on over, lads, and we’ll show you what’s here. Where did you two come from? I mean, how’d you end up with Zeres?”

She pointed. There was a delay as one of the two boys—they couldn’t have been more than fourteen and fifteen respectively—grabbed a quill and wrote. Then the answer was translated. Troydel exclaimed.

“You were at sea?”

That didn’t surprise Jelaqua. They seemed too thin and sunburnt; she doubted Zeres was treating them that badly. One nodded, solemn.

“Sixteen days.”

“Holy shit, dude! How long have you been here? Hold on, how long…”

Luis read the question and then nodded. He turned to Inti and then counted.

“Twenty-three? How long are you?”

Troydel blinked. He turned to Jelaqua as if she knew and ruffled at his hair.

“It must have been…two years, now. I’ve lost count.”

The Zeresian [Mage] stared at him, and Zemize turned with a hiss, but Jelaqua just glared at her patiently. The two boys began whispering in awe. In the common tongue this time.

“Spirited Generation! Spirited…”

They knew something, but Troydel wore a blank expression as they grew excited, then, Jelaqua thought, afraid. She smiled at them.

“I’m a Selphid. Here, let me write down…a Selphid. I live in dead bodies. See?”

One of them nearly leapt a foot in the air when she showed part of her real body and waved it at them out of a fingernail with a hole in it. They stared at her in horror—but then one began exclaiming.

“¡Es un alien de verdad! Pero es más bacán que estos lamecerdos. ¿Dijo que era qué? ¿Una aventurera?”

They seemed to like her, especially when Jelaqua showed them her muscles and mimed throwing Troydel. The young man from Poland was engrossed in a translated series of questions when someone else came over.

“Hey, did I hear you guys are from Peru? We’ve got a Spanish-speaker here! Marco, c’mon!”

A gaggle of four Earthers approached from Oteslia’s camp. They also had fruits and vegetables, which the two boys instantly perked up on seeing. Jelaqua grinned at a nervous young man—they were all young, but he was twenty-five, maybe?

“Well, you speak common. Jelaqua Ivirith, former Gold-ranked adventurer. I’m just here as Troydel’s friend since no one else could make it. And you are?”

He blinked at her, but smiled faintly.

“Ertan, from Turkey. Ah, um, [Entrepreneur].”

“What kind of class is that?”

He gave her an embarrassed shrug as three more came over, one boy, two girls.

“It’s my class. From Earth. I got it when I came over. We all were at the ruins of Troy—they’re all tourists. This is Marco, Cidney, Anh… ”

Each one from a different nation, apparently, but they all had a far stronger command of the common tongue. Troydel introduced himself hesitantly.

“How long have you been here?”

“Only two months. We were working in Oteslia when they found us! Did you say two years? Are you part of the Spirited Generation? Does anyone have a working phone? And the list?”

Cidney was from Austria, Anh from Vietnam, Marco from Portugal—when Troydel heard that, he got very excited.

“I know someone from Spain! Joseph!”

“Joseph!”

Everyone but the two young Peruvians knew that name. The word drew over more Earthers, and one bounded over.

“You know Joseph? Is he coming?”

“We were saving up to visit him! I sent him a [Message], but the Mage’s Guild says he got too many—”

“Are we all going to live together now? I hope so! I can’t stand where we are! We can’t walk around without an armed escort, and they’re all getting ready to fight giant ants all the time!”

It was a babble of voices, and then everyone was shaking hands, asking where the others were from, and trying to date when they arrived. Jelaqua smiled as she introduced the concept of ‘Selphids’. The only group that knew her species, in fact, was the Fissival one.

“We knew a Mage Sa’la at the academy! This is so cool—Troydel, you’re one of the oldest Earthers we’ve met! Only Elena was here when you were! But of course, we’re not all from the same time. What year do you remember being on Earth?”

One of the Earthers with more familiarity about this world was named Andrea. There was Saif, Eun, Jacques…they had an exasperated familiarity with their Fissival agents they were trying to get away from.

Troydel frowned at her.

“I’m from 2018. I knew someone from 2016.”

“2016! It’s been…five years since then!”

“Five years?”

“¿Qué está diciendo? ¿2016? Pero si estamos en 2025…”

The Earthers were comparing dates, which alarmed them as much as Jelaqua when she realized what was going on. She held up her hands.

“Hold on, hold on. You’re saying only two years passed for Troydel, but as many as six years passed for you all?”

“Yes! Six years!”

“That can’t be right.”

“Nine.”

That came from Inti, softly, and provoked a sudden silence in the room. The Earthers glanced at each other as the excitement drained from every face. Then Eun, a South Korean [Student], turned to Troydel.

“Are you the only one from Pallass? Did you lose anyone else?”

Troydel gazed at Eun for a long moment and swallowed.

“Not me. I mean, sort of. Yes. I know some others who died.”

Eun nodded, somber. In the resulting silence, someone began to cry. Jelaqua pushed agents and Earthers aside and found a young Earther from Salazsar’s section.

“Hey. Hey, kid. It’s okay. It’s going to be okay, alright?”

Her contingent had seen losses. The way they reacted to Troydel’s words, and the expressions on the other Earthers’ faces, told the Selphid a story. Those who’d seen fellow Earthers die—and the dawning horror on those who had been spared that so far.

The girl that Jelaqua was holding was nearly as pale-skinned as the Selphid and had blonde hair and pale eyes. From somewhere cold, Jelaqua guessed. She stared up at the Selphid and flinched as she felt Jelaqua’s cold hands, but the Selphid was murmuring to her.

“Hey, kid. It’ll be okay. Just breathe. What’s your name? Troydel, introduce yourself. We’re from Pallass.”

Someone spoke as Troydel came over to squat and hold out a hand. Jacques, who hailed from Ireland, flushed as he raised his voice.

“God damn. God damn it. This isn’t funny. This isn’t fair. Why is no one from home doing anything about this? All the scientists and all the news—and now we’re here, being held hostage by these bastards!”

The professional billiards player pointed at the agents of Fissival, and a rumble ran through the Earthers. The two Peruvian kids glanced at each other in alarm as the [Mage] refused to translate that—but Marco did. Jelaqua saw one of Manus’ agents lift a claw to his earhole, then call out.

“Break! We’re calling a break—Manus’ agents, disengage!”

Then Drakes and Gnolls were there, and the Earthers were protesting.

“Wait, you can’t—”

“Let go! I want to talk to—”

It descended into chaos, and Jelaqua turned to Zemize. The Pallassian agent hovered there, but didn’t grab Troydel as he tried to hold the hand of the Earther in Salazsar’s care and spoke, urgent.

“Hey, just send a [Message] to Troydel, Joseph, or The Wandering Inn if they let you, okay? There’s more of us and—”

The Salazsarian Gemskeepers were trying to separate them, but Zemize held out a claw. She didn’t grab Troydel. She looked like she knew Jelaqua would hit her if she did.



——



The flight back to Pallass was silent until they landed in Pallass. Troydel kept staring back at the place they had been camped, and all of his nerves had turned into a longing to go back.

“That was fucked, Zemize.”

He managed that after a while. Zemize opened her mouth, and Jelaqua spoke over her, staring out a window.

“What did you expect? They know they’re captives, and you put them in a room like pigs you were trying to fatten up. They’re all going to be unhappy. You’d better arrange more meetings.”

“We will. We want them to be happy, but each Walled City is territorial—”

Jelaqua turned her head.

“They’re children. What is Zeres going to do to their two boys? Make them build weapons of war?”

“They’ll be treated well.”

“They’d better.”

The entire affair left a sour taste in Jelaqua’s mouth, and her tastebuds were all but nonexistent in this body. But if there was one positive effect, it was on Troydel.

“I’m gonna write them all letters. I can do that, right? Joseph and Imani and the others will want to too!”

Zemize held up a claw.

“Troydel, you cannot tell the others about this. If you try, I will stop you and restrict your access to the inn.”

He wore the most stubborn expression Jelaqua had seen so far. He stopped, gritted his teeth, then the [Engineer] swung around.

“Well, I can write them and meet up, right? I’m going to do that! And those other Walled Cities have no fucking clue how to charge up a smartphone, except Fissival! If they want to find out, they’d better—better let us meet up! I’m going to the inn.”

“You can’t—”

Troydel shouted at Zemize.

“To get recipes from their countries from Imani! And her snacks! And a bicycle and soccer ball—I can do that, right?”

He stormed off so fast that Zemize had to run to catch up, calling for backup. Jelaqua unfolded herself from the Pegasus’ carriage. She remarked to the air as she watched Troydel running.

“Hey, he looks older already.”

She was mildly proud of him. Jelaqua hoped his determination stuck.



——



There was nothing she could do about the Earthers in other Walled Cities. One Selphid couldn’t do much other than get herself in trouble, but Jelaqua still walked around Pallass for a while, thinking about everything.

Making weapons of war. Each city probably trying to find more Earthers, build their technology. But what the heck does that mean? You can’t copy something like a flying carpet overnight. They say they’re building these…‘guns’. I didn’t see 2nd Army with them. I bet it’s the work of years, not months.

A lot of chasing big projects that might pay off, but like Felkhr’s flying, would only appear in the long term. In the short? Jelaqua sort of thought the Walled Cities were paddling through a poo swamp with Wailer Frogs underneath their boat. Compared to Wistram, they were moving at a snail’s pace.

No wonder they were so upset. In their race, in their hurry, they were letting things fall behind they, ironically, shouldn’t. Like the Engineer’s Guild. What Pallass needed, what Maughin needed, and Jelaqua herself, was a spark of change.

Not the slow-moving rock of the shifting tectonic plate of industry and civilization, but the burning spark of innovation, the crackle of change that arced into the future at a speed that caught the eye and swept everything up with it.

You could not predict nor call upon that power easily. But you could cultivate a place where it appeared. For that…there was always that building which had defined so much of this period of her life.

The inn.



——



This time, Liska paid more attention to Jelaqua.

“Oh shit. It’s you. Hey…you! Not going back to Pallass yet, right? I, uh—hold on—where’s my speaking stone—here’s the door to the inn. Right here, see? Door.”

She got up and actually ran to slap the door to the inn for some reason. Liska began panicking the moment Jelaqua appeared, and the Selphid sighed.

“No, I’m not heading back right away. Sorry if I missed Lyonette or someone.”

“Someone, yes, right. Uh, how can I help you?”

“Actually, I’d like to go to Esthelm.”

She wanted to speak to Pelt on Maughin’s behalf. However, it seemed like the inn wanted her. Liska’s eyes slid to the door.

“Why don’t you, uh, uh, go to the inn? We’ve got a special on all Selphid guests.”

“Oh, really? Do I eat free?”

Jelaqua was tired and played into the game. Liska nodded a few times.

“Yep! Go ahead!”

She gestured, and Jelaqua stepped out of line—and so did a pale-skinned Gnoll, who brushed at his fur.

“A Selphid eats free special? Parent’s tits, what a strange city! I like it. Hello, Sister.”

A Selphid traveller grinned at Jelaqua, and she laughed at Liska’s face.

“Brother! Where are you from?”

“Oh, Baleros, but I came to see the New Lands. Scout it out for home—”

They headed into the common room, chatting, and Jelaqua winked at him as Asgra ran up.

“Hey, my friend is here for the Selphid eats-free-special? I might have to leave you, Brother. But if you’re in Pallass, let’s have a drink!”

The happy Selphid accepted a menu as Asgra stared at him, then Jelaqua, then ran to tell on Liska. Ishkr slapped his face at the bar, but then came over with a smile to welcome the Selphid.

And Jelaqua saw them looking at her, and this time, perceived the difference in their expressions.

“I…think there’s either something really good, or really bad you have to tell me.”

She commented to Peggy as the Hobgoblin came over to take her order. Peggy hesitated, then nodded.

“Yah. You want something real sweet first? Not spicy. Is really bad when you get snotty and touch eyes.”

Jelaqua laughed.

“I just ate, actually, and I’m all sick from the air. Can I get something to settle my stomach? Just a juice or…”

She took one mouthful of blue fruit juice when Peggy came back.

“You, uh, want to go inside the [Garden], Miss Jelaqua? Real quick. Okay, not quick. Also, here.”

She handed Jelaqua an entire roll of toilet paper. Jelaqua stared at it.

“For your eyes.”

Well, that wasn’t ominous at all. The Selphid sighed as she walked into the [Garden of Sanctuary]. Oh…her eyes travelled up to that mist-covered hill as the door closed behind her. No one was in the garden. Well, Apista, flitting from the yellow…flowers? Jelaqua stared at them. Then she came up the hill and bent down.

“These aren’t Faerie Flowers. What happened?”

They were just ordinary yellow flowers. She felt shivery when she saw that. And she knew something terrible had happened. Something vast. The Goblin King had pushed a hole through the wall of the inn, but even she had trouble believing it.

Then she heard the door open and sensed something appearing behind her. It closed—then opened again. Two people? A voice murmured.

“Oh shit, here we go again. Uh—the flowers got destroyed, Jelaqua. It’s…a lot happened. It’s really good to see you.”

That voice. Jelaqua blinked as she stared down at the flowers. Then the Selphid closed her eyes and sensed the two behind her.

Someone middle-sized behind her, lean enough, and someone very tall, taller than Maughin, even, standing just beside him.

No. No…it was close, but not quite the same dimensions she knew. But even so, she felt her actual body writhing as she froze and then stood up. She turned slowly.

Then she saw Kevin’s face and the torso of someone impossibly tall, a billowing cloak of green and brown surrounding him. Jelaqua stared into Kevin’s eyes and his pained, happy smile. Only for a moment.

Then she gazed up, and her face crumpled up.

“Moore?”

He stood like a statue himself, and she realized he had a huge beard, far grander than the one she knew. He was taller and older and…stronger. It rolled off him, a casual aura of power.

Moore. Not Moore.

Lord Moore’s face was filled with frozen pain. As of someone seeing a dead woman. A ghost. Kevin glanced between the two and realized that if this was Jelaqua’s first moment seeing her friend…

Lord Moore of the future had lost Jelaqua Ivirith years ago, fighting the Mother of Graves. He leaned on his staff as if it were the only thing keeping him up. A half-Giant whose voice croaked as he tried to explain, tried to say—

“Jelaqua. A strange miracle allows us…you and I in one spot is—I would have found you, but I feared—”

Words failed him. He raised a hand, then lowered it, afraid to touch her or make the first move. Kevin was apprehensive too.

Those who witnessed the dead returning to life often wept. But they could also—rage in denial or lash out in hurt, regrets. He stood back as the Selphid gazed up at Moore, and the strangest thing happened.

Unlike Pelt or Hedault, Imani or Troydel, or anyone else that Kevin had met since his return, from Zevara to Fierre…the Selphid woman did not seem surprised when she saw the two of them standing next to the rain pouring in from the ceiling of the domed [Garden of Sanctuary].

The Selphid stood, a seemingly young woman with orange eyes, her dead body swaying in the breeze, like an undead. But what undead could smile like that? For one moment, she was shocked—and then the most graceful smile touched her lips. Understanding and calm.

It was so surprising that Kevin’s and Moore’s own trepidation and grief turned to shock, and they gazed at her.

Jelaqua nodded once.

Suddenly, it all made sense. Her peaceful days, the oddities, everything. She murmured as she reached out, and Lord Moore recoiled—then let her touch his chest. She put a hand on it gently, then reached up to tug his beard with a faint smile.

“You look so old, Moore. So much more distinguished. Where’s Ulinde?”

“I—I—she wasn’t with me.”

That was all he managed. A voice so filled with pain that she closed her eyes. Then nodded. She gave Kevin a smile so radiant his knees turned weak, and he thought Maughin was the luckiest guy ever.

“Kevin, you rascal. You look just right. I wished I could have said goodbye. I’m sorry I missed your funeral.”

“That’s okay. I know you and Moore and Seborn and Ulinde were…you guys were real heroes.”

He croaked. Jelaqua nodded. Then she spoke softly as the inn’s staff and family peeked into the garden, as Apista buzzed down and then away before she cried. But the Selphid’s words hit them all, like her class. [Steelforged Tempest]. Everyone could catch what she threw.

“Ah. This is so much kinder than what Erin described. Or no, she said it was like this, didn’t she?”

Moore and Kevin blinked at her, unprepared for this strange statement. Then Kevin understood; Lord Moore could not. He had never had this conversation in his world. Kevin stepped back.

“Jelaqua, you think—”

The Selphid gently beamed up at Moore as she stood on tip-toes and reached as high as she could to cup his face in her hands. She nodded to Kevin.

“I never got up, did I? This is such a fine dream. So much better than I could want or deserve. But this…?”

She gently tapped Moore’s cheek, and he flinched, then realized what she believed. His eyes widened, and Jelaqua stepped back. At peace with herself. She turned to Kevin and shook her head.

“I don’t need it. This is enough, Kevin. I was staying away from here on purpose. But I’m happy, I am. Tell that Goddess of Death, or whomever she is, I’m ready now.”

There was no point reaching for a flail. No weapon she could wield. Now that she knew she stood in the lands of the dead, in this dream, perhaps the final dream before she passed on, the Selphid breathed in and out and gazed at Moore, and her heart shook so much she almost believed it was still beating.

She waited

—and waited

…and waited to wake up.





Author’s Note:

Here we are again, friends. It’s shorter chapters week, and the Halfseekers have arrived! We did begin with Erin, but that’s because it felt like it made sense to begin with her. I like the ability to write a ‘short’ chapter and just throw it in without taking an entire week’s time.

I’ve liked writing these chapters. It is hard, and I’m not saying that just because I’m playing Silksong (it’s very fun and I’m in Act 2 right now), but because each chapter is 16-20,000 words and I was writing them daily.

But it feels faster and focused when I’m at my best. More episodic, and I like the changeup. It will be slower now that I actually edit chapters between releases, but I hope you enjoy this week of chapters—I’ll release them every other day, probably!

Each Halfseeker will get their chapter, and we’ll go from each one, but there’s other shenanigans afoot as you can tell. Hope you enjoy and are having a good one! I’ve had weird stress nightmares for like 4 days now, but I’m oddly very upbeat. Strange…I’ll tell you in two days if that continues!

(Most of my nightmares involve being in High School or college and being overloaded with classwork but also being pirateaba and deciding to drop out so I can write more and having to talk my parents into it. This last one I was on a school trip and left my bags on the bus then I went to a cult-sea hotel where I was trying to act cool while I figured out what the hell was going on with the brainwashing. It was very sci-fi and had kelp beer. If it wasn’t for the clear evil shenanigans I’d have stayed there, 6/10.)

(Translation Credit: Gridcube and Anthony! If you’re from Peru, please submit even better translations–with more swearing!)





Bird Barrista and Inn Gang Plushies by Bookmark!





Halfseekers’s Last Stand and Jelaqua Maughin Movie Night by Lanrae!





Jelaqua and Maughin by Lei Tencie!





Jelaqua and Date Night by Stargazing Selphid!

Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/megawint/

Ko-Fi: https://ko-fi.com/megawint





Tarot Cards: The Magician and The Hanged Man by wagacliff!





Druids and Waxed Floor by MichaelCannon!





Dance Macabre by Spooky!

Ko-Fi: https://ko-fi.com/spookyspookyowl

Bluesky: https://bsky.app/profile/spookyowl.bsky.social

Linktree: https://linktr.ee/spookyowlart





Bloodfields Dryad by onionlittle!

Ko-Fi: https://ko-fi.com/littleonion

Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/littleonion.art/

Bluesky: https://bsky.app/profile/onionlittle.bsky.social





Interlude – Halfseekers (Pt. 2)


She ran.

Out of the inn, through the open door, into the rain-covered plaza of the city her team had given everything for. Ignoring the voices calling her name.

Ran faster than anyone could dream, a blur, pushing the corpse’s body to its limits until even the rain itself seemed frozen in time. But it was never fast enough.

He was behind her. She thought this inn could take no more from her. This wretched place, that [Innkeeper] who asked for everything with tears and a smile. So it had given her something instead.

It couldn’t be real. And if it was?

Moore.



——



Jelaqua Ivirith ran through the streets of Liscor until she ruptured a tendon in her body’s legs and went crashing down. She skidded across the ground, shredding her clothing and the outer layer of her body’s skin from the sheer speed she’d been running and the friction.

She felt none of it, of course. Got up, limping past a [Knight] in armor sitting on the rainy street, past pedestrians staring and crying out in horror, heedless of the [Guardswoman] who asked her a question. Her corpse’s senses were gone, replaced by the ringing in her ears, the vision burned into her eyes. The agony in her chest.

He was alive. They were alive.

How, exactly, Jelaqua did not know. Kevin had been explaining it when she’d turn and run out of the garden and inn. Now, she kept stumbling forwards until her overexerted body did collapse on the street. Then she lay and stared up at the sky as rain fell on her face.

She didn’t move for a long, long while. Only thought.

This is wrong.

This can’t be happening.

How, how could it ever be?

I will kill her for this, that [Innkeeper].

Moore. What will Seborn say?

It’s not fair.

The Selphid wanted to hurt something. She writhed around in her corpse, tearing through veins and organs, heedless of the damage she was causing to the precious vessel she normally treated with respect. Unable to control it. Unable to comprehend anything.

Moore was alive. Only, it wasn’t Moore. He’d said that, hadn’t he? An older Moore?

It didn’t matter. It was him. She would have known him as a baby or aged. There was no faking the way he smiled, his very aura, was there?

Could it be a Greater Mimic? An illusion? Am I dead?

Hope blossomed in her chest, a kind of twisted hope that this was in fact part of something truly horrific. Because if it was not?

It hurt far too much.

I have buried him. I have mourned him. He is gone, and if he is alive, how can I survive it? My heart can’t. Am I a fool? I should be so happy, but I am not.

She felt destroyed. As if someone had reached into her chest and pulled out her heart. It was—so strange. But someone coming back to life hurt almost more than their deaths.

Jelaqua had buried so many friends over the years. She had become used to death as a companion, that merciless thing you cursed that came for everyone. So she wasn’t numb to it, but she understood it.

If causality’s wheel could be reversed, if miracles could happen—then it was more terrifying. Then she didn’t know how the world worked. Then there was a part of her that would always ask: were you too weak? Did you not do enough, care enough?

Could you save them all? Bring them back? Will you mourn and weep and then be forced to do it all again? Will you stop grieving for the dead because you can never be sure it’s over?

It was devaluing death. The Selphid realized that was part of it. As a Selphid, she had gotten used to mortality since the moment she could move. She had lived in a dead body; she had to buy or procure more dead bodies, and everyone who died was loved or hated by someone. The violation of their corpses, the gall to ask a family member to wear their beloved’s corpse for your own ends—

Selphids respected the dead. Or they went the other way and saw death as a convenience, corpses a disposable tool. What Jelaqua had seen in the inn felt like an abhorrent thing.

So, a thought surfaced in her mind.

I have to kill that thing wearing Moore’s face. That’s not him. That’s some stranger pretending to be an older him. I cannot let him live. I must call Seborn and right this madness.

And Kevin too? Jelaqua didn’t think of the Human for a second. She reconnected her body to her eyes’ optical nerves and stared up at the sky. When she tried to raise her head, it was with murder in her soul. She realized she’d snapped a bit. All adventurers had their line, their breaking point, and she had hit hers.

Rainwater was trickling down her face. The Selphid began to get up—and realized she couldn’t. She checked the muscles, reconnecting to her body, and realized she’d done far more damage in her unthinking flight than she’d thought.

Every muscle in her legs was torn or inflamed. This body still worked—but not every function did, so there was no blood to clot nor capacity of the muscles to heal save for her intervention. Her right leg’s major tendons had just snapped—and her thrashing had damaged the nerve connections to other parts of her body.

Jelaqua began trying to repair them, and the senses she did have access to without damage were vision, hearing—the cranial nerves were fine. So she became aware that she was surrounded by people, all speaking with agitation.

Liscorians. She was in Liscor. She must have fled here through the door…they were speaking in a babble. A woman’s voice was loudest and nearest.

“—just ran through here, then collapsed, Watchman. She’s pale to death! Is—is it a monster?”

“Not a monster. Something in her flesh. Look, the orange—”

“She’s a Selphid, you idiots. Never seen one before?”

That came from a sneering Drake, and then there was an authoritative bark.

“Alright, move back, everyone. Guardswoman Jerci, check the way she came for disturbances. Is she a [Thief]? Was there a fight? Miss Selphid, can you hear me? I’m Senior Guardsman Lens. Is there a crisis? Are you hurt?”

Someone bent over her. A Drake. He waved a hand in front of her. Jelaqua tried and found she could move her eyes, but she was busy reconnecting all the damaged nerves, and it was a mess. She blinked once.

“Looks like she’s awake, but—Watch Captain Ronss, I have a fallen Selphid on Shield Spider Way. No clue what’s going on. I’d send for a [Healer], but…I don’t think I need backup. I’ll have a patrol help me if I need it. We may need to go to Invrisil or Pallass for help.”

How embarrassing. Jelaqua lay there, working on her body, wishing she could use her mouth to tell him she was fine. She just had to get back to the inn and…

Kill Moore? The murderous rage in her mind was already abating. Injure him? Injure someone.

Who was responsible for this? Why?

The Goblin King. The crowd milled around, whispering.

“Selphids? So that’s a corpse? Don’t look, dear!”

“Mother, is she okay?”

“It’s so freakish. It could have hurt someone—why are they allowed in the city? First Goblins, now this?”

That was the same speaker as before. A Drake, vocal. Jelaqua’s fury returned. My team died for this city. I’ll kill you. I’ll—

Guardsman Lens swung around and barked.

“That’s enough of that! Move further back!”

The blowhard wasn’t done.

“You should arrest her for disrupting the peace, Guardsman! And public nuisance. I know the laws. Under Liscorian law, chapter, uh…I’m filing a complaint as a member of the public for my health and safety!”

“You weren’t anywhere near this Selphid when she fell, sir.”

Lens addressed the Drake, and the figure Jelaqua could dimly see, upside down, responded.

“That’s a corpse! I could be infected or get a—a parasite or something! Look, her skin is on the street; is that hygienic?”

He pointed, and Jelaqua imagined it was bad. Someone gagged, and Lens hesitated, about to respond. Then there was a faint murmur—and someone else spoke up with a bright voice.

“Cheerio, good fellow! Are you a longstanding resident of this here domicile, my friend? I, too, am a resident of fine Liscor!”

A Drake with a far stranger modality of speech and a faint accent that did away with the usual extended ‘s’ tapped the first Drake on the shoulder. He hesitated.

“Uh, yes. Liscorian citizen, born and raised. Original.”

He glowered around at the mix of Humans, Gnolls, and other pedestrians with that look of someone who knew he was superior. The Drake lady nodded and adjusted a broad, pink hat which let the water run off the top.

“I’m new to the city myself. Barely four months from Veish. I hopped on the carriage to make my mark in this spot.”

Wasn’t that all the way southwest, next to Zeres? It explained how odd she sounded. Jelaqua’s arm wiggled as she finally began to figure out what did what.

“Good for you. Do you want to add to the complaint?”

The offended Drake grunted, eying the female Drake up and down. She had pale white scales, and she tipped her hat up.

“No, I was rather wondering if you were new to the city. Under four months. Because then I could quite understand you, sir, for your unprepossessing conduct. But if you were here last winter, then I say, how dare you, sir? Or does it not cross your recollection that during the terrible events of the Winter Solstice, a Selphid and her team fought to defend Liscor? I would think everyone living in the northern district remembers. I would be ashamed to hear such words coming out of my own mouth, sir, and I would now like to give you one of these. Oh, please hold this.”

She handed a handbag to the Drake, whose mouth was still open when she turned and slapped him in the face with her tail. It was an elegant move that Jelaqua had never seen before. The Drake twirled fast and angled her body so her tail came up and thwacked the other Drake across the face.

It probably hurt more than a regular slap given the weight of the tail and the speed it hit the Drake. It also seemed hugely offensive—certainly, the Drake grabbed his face and began screaming as she took her handbag back.

“Assault! I’ve been assaulted! You all saw it! Guardsman, arrest this woman!”

He pointed a trembling claw at the female Drake, who put her hands on her hips as Guardsman Lens groaned.

“Miss, you just assaulted another citizen of Liscor in public.”

“Yes, and I’d do it again, Guardsman! For shame, sir! You have no gratitude or good nature in a single scale of your body. Someone collapses on the ground and your first reaction is to charge them?”

There was a murmur, then someone spoke up.

“She’s right. I was in Liscor too when the Draugr were coming at the walls. I remember the north gates. You’re out of line, chum. I ought to slap you too, but I’ve got no tail. I’ll settle for a punch.”

“Get away from me! Guardsman, I’m in danger from this thug of a Human!”

“Everyone calm down. Sir, do not punch that Drake—”

Lens raised his hands as Jelaqua heard more voices. She was trying to sit up now, because she really wanted to see, but she could hear well enough.

“I’ll hit him too. Hold my shopping, dear.”

“Back off, all of you! I’ve got a dagger!”

“Hey, he’s threatening us. You see that, Guardsman? Also, I have this sword, buddy. What would you do if I—”

“No weapons! Put them down! Guardswoman Jerci—get over here!”

The crowd was rumbling by the time Jerci, a young Gnoll, ran past with an entire squad of the Watch. The unfortunate Drake was surrounded by Liscorians. A woman was smiling at him as he tensed—there were at least six pairs of hands on him, so movement might have been impossible even if he wanted it.

“We’re not going to hurt you, pal. That would be against the law, which you broke by threatening us with a dagger. With a child around. Absolutely not; right, everyone?”

Everyone nodded, and she pointed.

“Oh my, is that a fire? You’d better go that way, Senior Guardsman!”

Two of the Watch actually spun around in the pouring rain. Senior Guardsman Lens glanced at them and covered what might have been a smile. Then he raised his claws.

“Alright, let him go. Sir, sheathe your dagger, now. I advise you to go about your day, or I will begin charging individuals, starting with you for disorderly conduct, drawing a blade with malice aforethought, and…”

The Drake ran for it when they let him go. It almost made Jelaqua smile. Almost made her forget Moore, but they brought it back as well.

They remembered. If not the Halfseekers by name…

Oh, dead gods, what will I do? I can’t face him.

It was ‘face him’, now, instead of rip his heart out. She felt tired, and more tired when she realized this was going to be a problem. Everyone had turned back to her.

“Well now, I quite enjoyed that Liscorian civility, but what do we do about this poor Selphid? She’s still down. Does anyone know a [Healer] who works with Selphids?”

“Not here. Jerci, was there an issue…?”

“I think I saw some people running out of the door to the inn, Guardsman Lens, but they said it wasn’t a crisis. And the Doorgnoll told me to eat shit and get lost.”

“Huh. Well…damn. Okay, we might have to load her up just to get her off the street and out of the rain. Let’s get a wagon or—”

They were debating what to do with her, and Jelaqua was desperately searching for the muscle that worked her tongue, when someone interrupted.

“Excuse me. I’m a fellow Selphid. I saw my sister running out the inn and was concerned. May I approach, Guardsman? I might be able to help.”

Lens turned, and Jelaqua recognized the voice. The other Selphid—

“Your sister? You know this woman, ah, sir?”

“Pardon me—turn of phrase. We’re all brothers or sisters…I’m a Selphid [Merchant] from Baleros. Hiveno. May I approach her? Selphids can communicate in-person. It may be somewhat disturbing…”

“Go ahead. Please. Er, do we need to get you anything?”

Hiveno assured him no, and Lens had everyone else step back. Jelaqua knew what was coming, and she sensed a foreign entity entering her body from the earhole.

“Sister? Are you well? I assume you heard most of that. Unless you’re more injured than I thought?”

Selphids ‘talked’ in various ways in person. Their long, malleable bodies could speak with normal words or use other signals—or even their minds to telepathically talk, but neither Jelaqua nor Hiveno was like that. She responded.

“I’m fine. I destroyed my internals, and I’ve tangled everything up.”

Hiveno quested around respectfully, keeping back from the main area where her body was moving about on multiple fronts.

“Baleros’ balls, I can see that! What a mess. Would you allow me to give you a hand? I’ll tell these good people not to worry. Did you hear them sorting out that Drake? Taking our side? I’ve never heard the like, both here or in Baleros!”

“Neither have I. I’ll take the help, thank you.”

Embarrassed, Jelaqua sensed Hiveno withdraw, then give Lens an explanation. When he returned, he began helping her sort out nerve endings—which was mostly a game of ‘pull and see what this one does’.

Normally, you knew what everything did based on its location if you had been in this particular species before more or less, but every body was a bit different, and Jelaqua had thrown everything into disarray. Imagine a neat [Puppetmaster]’s booth with all the strings corresponding to each limb tangled up like a spider’s web, then multiply that by a hundred. That was what they were dealing with.

“You rampaged out of there so fast I was shocked, Sister. What’s your name? Apologies—you must be a [Warrior]. I can’t imagine tearing my body up this quickly.”

“Jelaqua. I—something happened, and I had to go. I wasn’t thinking.”

“Jelaqua? As in Jelaqua Ivirith, Captain of the Halfseekers? What a coincidence! Or not, given how many of us there are. You’re the Selphid I came to meet! I heard there was one of us around here, and I was hoping for an introduction to The Wandering Inn and Liscor. Though it seems I’ve come at a bad time. I’ve heard of your team, Captain.”

“Former team.”

“Oh, I’m so sorry, of course.”

It didn’t surprise her that she was known. Selphids kept tabs on each other, helped one another out because you were often the only person if you travelled from Baleros. They had very few enclaves…she spoke softly.

“I’m going to get myself back to the inn as soon as I can get this body limping.”

“Are you in need of a spare? Frankly, I could probably run back to my lodgings in Pallass and pick one up, and it might be faster than this.”

“I think I’ve got it. I can move my arm already…”

“Well then, to work.”

After a few minutes, Hiveno breached the silence.

“Is it something I should inform the Watch about? In the inn? I don’t mean to pry, but you looked like you’d seen a ghost.”

“You have no idea. I’m going to warn you now, Hiveno, that I don’t know what will happen when I get back to the inn. It’s 50-50 I’m a blubbering mess or I try to destroy what’s left of it.”

The [Merchant] hesitated as he sorted a bundle of nerves.

“A fair warning. May I ask what they did that was so egregious? I heard you were friends with the inn.”

Jelaqua replied tiredly and bitterly.

“I am. My team died defending it. I have given everything I had except my life for that place, and not for lack of trying.”

“That sounds like a tremendous amount. Did they…deserve it?”

The question struck the Selphid differently. She thought, then realized her mouth was working. So she rasped up at the sky.

“Deserve it? At first, they didn’t. She didn’t. She just gave my team rooms when no one else would, and she was just—kind. Genuinely. We can always tell. You know what it’s like. And that was it. I got mixed up in a bit of their problems, because that’s what we do. I didn’t owe her anything…and then there were more problems.”

Mrsha lost in the dungeon. Face-Eater Moths. Jelaqua rasped.

“They were friendly enough. I’d have taken my team to help them and the cute kid there, like anyone else. But aside from that? No. Then there was a terrible war in the Floodplains after the rains stopped. Almost…around this time. And I didn’t fight because I didn’t owe her that. But she still gave us something. An end to our long and pointless quest. Maybe not directly, but she did. She helped us watch our teammate die. So we owed her for that.”

Garen Redfang, falling in battle, locking blades with the Goblin Lord. Hiveno murmured with his own mouth.

“It doesn’t sound like that would engender much support from me.”

Jelaqua laughed hoarsely.

“No. No…but I’m not saying it right. We searched for years, trying to kill a monster. And he beat the three of us. We didn’t even kill him. He went down swinging against another foe, on a suicide mission. For a second, he was our teammate again. A bastard, a stupid idiot, but we watched him die like that. We owed her, if she had any part in that. And then…”

Jelaqua could sit up, now, and she stared at her legs, seeing muscles move. Speaking.

“She just helped us, and we helped her. We found our fortunes in the dungeon. Thanks to her? I don’t know. We found a teammate here. I fell in love. Got married. It wasn’t all her, but it was through her inn. Her magic door. That was still not enough. Not enough to balance what we gave.”

The Hag was going through the gates. There was no one else to stop her…Jelaqua looked around at Hiveno. And orange tears were running from her eyes.

“Nothing could fucking balance that. Not all her miracles. If you told me the cost, I’d tell you it was too high, if you put everything she did on the other side of the scales. And she knows it. She knew it. But—”

The Selphid put her hands over her eyes as her body returned to her. She pressed the heels of her palms against her eyes.

“—We would have done the same thing, us idiots. The same thing on the side of a road for people we’d never met. She just made it easier. We were the last ones. There used to be so many of us. We should never have taken our last teammate. She was just a kid. I pointed, and we went. It should have been me. I’d do it again. Every time I dream of it, I can’t stop.”

She was sobbing now. Curling up on the rainy streets, surrounded by spectators, as the other Selphid knelt with her, rain pattering off his cloak. Jelaqua raised her head.

“And now, she gave me back something, somehow. That inn did. It’s wrong. I’ll hate them for it forever.”

“Why?”

“Because it’s not a debt you should ever be able to pay. It’s not something I could ever ask for. But they did it. It has…it has to have a cost. Or else everything I’ve done since I set foot on Izril’s shores is meaningless.”

Every moment she put her life on the line and knew the value of it and still risked it all. Every time her team did the hard part because something in them said they had to—

Her anger was gone. Her doubts too, in a way. Jelaqua rose, and suddenly, she was filled with urgency. She had to know what had happened. Only then could she confront him.

She couldn’t even get to her feet. Hiveno had to help her up; Jelaqua’s knees were shaking.

“I think she’s as good as we’re going to get her, Senior Guardsman. We need to get her to another body—she’s fine, but her body is destroyed. I apologize for the scene.”

He called to the Drake, and Jelaqua nodded.

“I’m sorry too. I was having a—I freaked out.”

“Quite alright, Captain. The city owes you more than that.”

Guardsman Lens, who had just been involved in the Zevara case—albeit mostly as a cover for Moass and Hissl—saluted Jelaqua. He recognized her too. Jerci and her squad saluted, and the onlookers started.

“Oh my. It’s you. I thought it might be—Captain, may I help you?”

The pearly-scaled Drake took Jelaqua’s other arm without hesitation. The Selphid hesitated.

“I’m f—thank you. I just need to get to the door.”

“Shivertail Plaza?”

“No, I mean, yes. No…the inn. The Wandering Inn. I need to get there, not to the portal door.”

The Drake woman smiled at Jelaqua as the Selphid shook her head. She must have hit it.

“Not to worry, Captain. My name is Ambiese, incidentally. I’d love to buy you a drink.”

“Me too! Can we help?”

The Human man who’d threatened to punch the Drake offered, and Jelaqua almost imagined they’d carry her. She waved him off, but the gaggle followed her anyways.

“Jerci, clear the streets for us. Let’s just get Captain Ivirith to the inn. Which way is it?”

Lens ordered, and Jerci saluted.

“Sir! I’ll do that! Uh—wait, are we heading that way or this?”

She pointed down the avenue, and Hiveno glanced around.

“…I’ve completely lost my bearings. Captain, which way?”

“Uh, you go out the gates and…no, wait. Where are we?”

“Shield Spider Way, Captain. Where’s the inn?”

Jelaqua stared down the street.

“Right. So we’d go out the city and…straight…no, we go to the hill. It’s on a hill.”

“Where? Outside the city? You ran all the way into Liscor from the inn?”

Lens was impressed; Jelaqua shook her head, but she was getting more confused.

“No! I used the door, I think?”

But the teleportation door—did that lead back to the inn? Jelaqua felt confused. This was so hard, and she knew it wasn’t. She visited the inn all the time. What was going on? Hiveno glanced at Jelaqua, concerned.

“She might have hit herself harder than I thought, Guardsman. Even Selphids can get a kind of concussion. Although the inn is hard to find. I was searching for it all morning.”

“It’s not hard, surely. I was told it was right outside of Liscor.”

Ambiese protested, and Jelaqua shook her head.

“It was. They moved it. It’s…far…?”

Suddenly, she realized she had no idea how to get to the inn. Everyone else was confused as well. The Human man scratched his head.

“Is it in Pallass?”

“Can’t be. It might be up near Celum, though.”

“That’s not right. I swear it was—I’ve seen it! I poked my head in when I went to Esthelm, once. You just—dead gods, did I hit my head? I can’t figure out where it is!”

“Hold on, hold on—let’s all think about this logically. We know the inn can’t be in the Bloodfields. I think. It’s north of that. Almost definitely. If we need to get to it, we probably don’t climb into the High Passes.”

This was insanity. Jelaqua felt that familiar, uncanny sensation on the back of her neck. Lens reached into his belt pouch and yanked out a speaking stone.

“I’ll handle this. Watch Captain Ronss, our mystery Selphid situation is cleared up. We’re taking her to the inn. Ah—could you give us directions from here to the inn?”

He listened. Then nodded.

“He’s getting a map.”

Everyone relaxed except for Jelaqua. After a few seconds, Lens listened. Smiled around.

“Standby.”

A minute passed. He began humming, uncomfortable, as every eye lingered on him. After another minute, Lens fiddled with the speaking stone. After thirty more seconds, he coughed.

“Ah, Watch Captain, have I lost you?”

Then Jelaqua realized the inn was gone, and irony of ironies—the moment she was ready to get back to The Wandering Inn, she couldn’t find it. She began laughing softly in the rain as everyone looked at her.

Then she wondered…did that older Moore laugh too? Was it truly him? She had to know now. Please…

And she wanted to hear Kevin laughing. She began to take one step after another. Not sure what she was hoping to see. Only knowing that she had to see it.



——



The great trial of locating The Wandering Inn began in the rainy streets of Liscor. A gaggle of Liscorians, new and old, Senior Guardsman Lens, Jerci and a squad of [Guards], Hiveno, Ambiese, and Jelaqua went searching for the inn.

At first, they just tried to retrace Jelaqua’s steps. They made it to Shivertail Plaza, but then were confused how she got here. Had she gone through Pallass, Celum, Esthelm, Riverfarm, or another location via the door to the inn?

So they asked people waiting in line and other pedestrians. No one could figure it out, and some grew increasingly agitated as they realized that they’d forgotten too. In fact, the only person with an inkling of how to get back to the inn was Jelaqua herself.

I know I didn’t run that far. I can’t have with the way I was pushing my body. She was the one who stopped them from heading to Invrisil or Pallass, but Jelaqua was convinced now.

Someone’s done something to hide where the inn is. It’s like a big illusion spell. The Gold-ranker adventurer had faced situations like these before.

“The easiest way would be to connect to the inn itself with a ball of string or something. Or find someone from the inn. They probably know how to fix it. Can we send a [Message]?”

She hoped they were looking for her or at least hadn’t taken her running off as a rejection. Lens nodded, purely bemused. He muttered to himself as he pointed.

“First, someone impersonates me, next I need to find an inn…this way. We’ll go to the Mage’s Guild. I know where that is.”

They were trooping back together, and Miss Ambiese was chatting with the others taking turns helping Jelaqua along. It was quite embarrassing, but the Liscorians seemed to enjoy this.

“I kept being told I’d get my own ‘Solstice Event’ sometime. I reckon this is it. My boss keeps bragging about how he was there when cookies were invented. Now I’ll have a story for him and the lads.”

The burly man was a [Builder] named Nule who had come for the same reason many had. The mother and child were a Gnoll woman named Thirka and Tirra—the girl was being given sweets by Miss Ambiese.

“This nougat’s from my home city. I’m a [Confectioner]. I heard Liscor had a sweet tooth, and here I am! I’d love to visit the inn. I was staying away after the Solstice, and just when I worked my nerve up, the Goblin King happened. But I think I ought to!”

“If we ever get to it, I’ll buy you all drinks. But you don’t have to come, Miss Thirka. It’s wet…”

The Gnollish mother seemed as invested as everyone, and her daughter, Tirra, clung to her paw as if afraid she’d be sent away.

“We are Silverfangs, yes, Captain Ivirith. A bit of rain cannot hurt us. I am more amazed I cannot smell where you went, and Tirra cannot either! What is this ‘Solstice Event’ for?”

“Hiding where the inn is? Makes sense. Plenty of people don’t like it. Maybe you get a prize if you find it?”

“There’s free meals for Selphids today. I was having a delightful steak. I had no idea it did species-appreciation days.”

Hiveno said wistfully, and everyone eyed him. Jerci’s ears perked up.

“It does species-appreciation days? Senior Guardsman Relc never said! Tkrn said sometimes you can get a free snack, but that was only when the inn was a place we had to patrol on duty!”

Lens cursed.

“That bastard. There’s probably a limit on how many get meals free or half-off. I bet he’s keeping it hush-hush on purpose! Just wait until we tell the north Watch House! You know what? I heard Captain Zevara doesn’t visit the inn often despite having a soft spot for that [Innkeeper]. I bet that’s why! She never takes part in lotteries or things where she’d get preferential treatment.”

Jelaqua was struggling to suppress the urge to laugh as hard as she could. She didn’t correct the record; it probably would be good for business, and besides, the inn owed her something for the sheer trauma she’d endured.

But still, finding the inn? The group marching towards the Mage’s Guild realized their struggle might be harder than they thought when they passed by the [Knight].

Right. The [Knight] who was sitting in the street as rain pattered off his helmet. He had a spiked mace on one side, a heater shield on the other, and a crossbow on his back—and a lantern hanging from across one shoulder. His armor was new, if threatening to rust in the rain.

He was also an Antinium. Everyone stopped when they saw him, and Lens called out.

“Er, Sir Knight? Are you okay? I was actually coming to check on reports of you.”

“Yes, Senior Guardsman. Am I not allowed to sit in the street? I will move, of course, if so.”

The Antinium began to move; he spoke well, but he had an odd accent that made Jelaqua instantly think he wasn’t from…Liscor. Then she realized what it was. He had a mellow voice, but he was a Soldier. What in the world?

She stared along with a few Liscorians.

“Hey, that’s not one of ours…”

Lens had heard it too and glanced at Jerci before replying.

“Sitting isn’t a crime, sir. It’s just—are you waiting for something?”

“I am gathering my strength, Guardsman. I apologize if I have disrupted the peace. This goes against my code, my vow, and my Order.”

“No, nono—not at all!”

The Soldier relaxed and began to sit again.

“Ah, excellent.”

Everyone stared at him, and Ambiese raised a claw.

“Cheerio, good sir, but may I ask why are you sitting there? And your, um, name?”

Some old Liscorians winced and drew back reflexively, but the [Knight] glanced up without issue.

“Forgive me, citizen. I forget my training. I am [Squire] Rotellen, a knight-in-training of the Order of Solstice. I am upon a great quest, and I have stopped due to hunger and exhaustion.”

A quest? Jelaqua spoke up with that familiar feeling.

“What kind of quest do they give [Squires], er, Rotellen? And are you from Liscor?”

The Antinium shook his head.

“I am from the Armored Hive. I am new to Liscor. I did not think I had been put upon a quest at first, but it is surely a great one. I have been tasked, you see, with going to The Wandering Inn to request a door be opened for our keep now that it is mostly finished. I travelled to Liscor, but then lost my way yesterday as I was close to the inn. Thus, I have searched for it for the last twenty-six hours in vain.”

He clenched one fist.

“I was entrusted with this sacred duty by none other than Knight Jewel herself! A more senior member of the Order might have been better.”

Jelaqua blinked as the crowd muttered excitedly.

“Since yesterday?”

“Indeed. I have spent twenty-six hours moving about until my body betrayed me with the desire to sit. Thus, I have rested.”

Rotellen’s stomach made a faint squelching sound, and Ambiese lifted the bag of nougat.

“…Do you have nothing to eat?”

The [Squire] hesitated.

“I had brought provisions precisely calculated for my travel. They ran out yesterday. Which implies to me that I was upon my destination, though I cannot now say where it is. Thus, I have combed every street in the hopes of finding the inn. If that then fails, I shall search the Floodplains, though I may well drown. The Order of Solstice would expect nothing less.”

Jelaqua traded glances with Hiveno, then she smiled at the strange, silly Antinium.

“Well, I’m a friend of the inn, and I have to get back there, so you should come with us, Squire Rotellen.”

And that was how an Antinium [Squire] joined their company, eating the nougat hungrily. They talked as they headed to the Mage’s Guild.

“How does an Antinium Soldier speak, let alone so well?”

“I was given a book and a voice by the Armored Queen before I left. The book was of knightly virtues. Thus, I am aware of many facets of my class. How to kiss a [Princess]’ hand. How to declaim. I, along with many [Squires], have been building and training in our keep. It is finished, at least, for now. Hence the need for the door.”

His voice was softer and higher than the bass of some of the Free Antinium Soldiers with voices. And the [Squire] walked as if the armor was second-nature to him, though he was careful never to let the hanging lantern bang against anything.

“You’re one of those flame-knights, aren’t you? Do you have one?”

Mister Nule asked, and the [Squire] nodded. He glared at the rain balefully.

“I carry the pink flame of Glory, as do so many. But that is an easy flame, and in time, mine may change. I would share it but for this rain. How shall we locate the inn? Slay a Dragon? Climb a tower of hair? Challenge another [Knight] to a duel for the answer?”

“I was going to send a [Message] spell.”

“Ah, this would be the tactical acumen which I have yet to learn. I defer to you, Captain.”

Jelaqua was smiling despite the oddity of the day. This silly chaos she could do forever. It was gentle. It was so much better than Pallass where no one knew her name.

But they never made it to the Mage’s Guild. They were found before that—a shape flashed down the street in the pouring rain, and Jelaqua heard a voice.

“I found her! She’s right here—”

Kevin. He was racing around on a bicycle, and he braked hard as he swept his wet hair back. He dismounted and then hesitated.

“Jelaqua. I—”

Kevin. Seeing him again, Jelaqua realized she’d seen him yesterday, but there had been some kind of concealment Skill on him. As it was, his sandy hair and faintly tanned complexion was familiar. He hesitated, not sure if he should speak softly or come closer. It was Jelaqua who lifted a hand.

“Hey, Kevin. C’mere, you. I’m not going to run away this time. Just…are you real?”

He approached, slowly, as the crowd drew back. Jelaqua stood upright as the others let her go, then took one weak step towards him. She faltered, and he caught her.

“Are you okay, Jelaqua? You look—”

He felt real. She strained all the senses her body had, and she could see him stumble slightly as he caught her weight. Jelaqua gazed up at him, and then her grip tightened on his arms.

“It is you. Good. You kids deserve a second chance. Is…did anyone else…? Moore would have given up his place for anyone. Is Halrac there?”

She saw Kevin’s face crumple up and felt herself slipping again, falling into a sea of emotions and regrets and memories. His voice was husky as he helped her stand.

“It didn’t work…like that, Jelaqua. Halrac came back. Everyone did. He went out like a hero again.”

“Ah.”

So it was even bigger than she’d feared. She saw the desolation in his gaze, the terrible knowledge, and it was familiar to her, the Gold-rank adventurer. Jelaqua pulled Kevin closer to her.

“Was there a price? Was the Goblin King part of it?”

“Oh, yes. Only, I didn’t pay it.”

The Selphid smiled with relief as tears filled her vision.

“Good.”



——



Kevin took her back to The Wandering Inn. Though of course, his name wasn’t ‘Kevin’. He introduced himself to everyone as ‘Randy’, and for some reason, it worked.

Skill.

He knew how to get back, and he explained it to Jelaqua.

“You’re not on the list, sorry. Lyonette says it’s an oversight. You sort of have to come here, then memorize how to find your way back. Mrsha and everyone on the staff and in the family are immune, but us guests and friends struggle. Anyone else is hopeless. I had this [Spy] follow me around—I think he didn’t even know who I was, just that I’d been to the inn. The moment I went for the door, he turned around and walked into a wall.”

She tried to smile. But as he helped her and led the others into the common room of the inn, her eyes were darting around. Where was he? Where—?

Moore wasn’t in the common room, but the rest of the staff and Lyonette was, and they were arguing loudly.

“I told you it was a bad idea! I told you we should have let her know, then done the introductions! We could have gotten a [Witch] and—”

Nanette Weishart was speaking stridently as she pointed at Lyonette. Lyonette sighed back.

“Not everything needs to involve [Witches], Nanette. It would have always been…oh, there she is. Jelaqua!”

“Hey, Lyonette. I brought everyone here for the species free food day.”

Jelaqua smiled weakly as she waved at the crowd who’d come with her. She saw Lyonette’s face go slack and felt a tiny bit bad. Then Lyonette’s face broke into a smile.

“The species free food day? It’s Selphids, but for anyone who helped you, I’ll gladly offer free food and drinks!”

Lyonette, coin-pinching Lyonette, said that? The group cheered, and one of the Drakes punched his fist into the air.

“Yes, I knew there was a prize! Is there a shirt or something I can get? ‘I Survived a Solstice Event’ or something? A medal?”

The [Princess] laughed as her daughters glanced up. Mrsha and Nanette exchanged a look, then went running.

“We might be able to do something like that. Come in, please, everyone! Have a seat! Guardsmen, thank you. Jelaqua, I am so sorry…”

She approached, and that same guilt was in her eyes. Jelaqua croaked.

“You’re right. It would have always been like this. Where is he? Kevin said there’s no one—I have to see him.”

She would have moved around, but her body was giving up the ghost, and she had to sag into a chair as Kevin groaned. Lyonette glanced at her.

“Oh no, have you injured yourself? You moved out all the bodies that used to be in the basement—we can send someone to your home in Pallass. Ishkr, drat! He went out searching for you—just sit, Jelaqua. I…I would have said something, but I was in the theater. I hid the inn yesterday, so I—”

They had so much to say. Lyonette seemed different. Jelaqua wasn’t sure why—oh, wait. Her aura was so much stronger. But it had weird…cracks in it? The [Princess] appeared completely fine. That was until she winced as she tried to help Jelaqua into her seat and the Selphid got a good look at her hand.

It was a shade too pale in places, and so was the [Princess]’ face. Like someone had applied a heavy foundation but hadn’t mixed the colors quite right…the [Princess] stepped back, smiling. Was one eye slightly too blue?

“I have a lot to tell you, but later. What matters right now is…explanations.”

Ishkr appeared behind the bar with a ‘pop’, shaking water off his fur. When he saw Jelaqua, he nodded.

“Oh, good. You found her. Everyone’s coming back.”

Lyonette gripped her apron as she nodded to Jelaqua.

“We can continue this in the garden. Everyone here deserves a meal?”

“Yes, or two. I can pay.”

The [Princess] shook her head with a mysterious, even mischievous smile.

“I have so much to tell you, Jelaqua! You missed a lot…”

“Yeah, including the Goblin King. It’s my fault for chickening out.”

The Selphid saw the [Princess] freeze up, then Lyonette reached out a gentle hand.

“No one would dream of asking that of you. Jelaqua, I’m so sorry. We weren’t keeping this from you. It’s just—how could I ever tell—? It was his decision, but I’ve never seen him afraid of anything except this. Seborn doesn’t know yet.”

Jelaqua was searching for words, gagging at the impatience and fear in her chest, but they were saved from having to have this coded conversation by Knight Rotellen.

He had sunk to his knees in the inn, and all four arms were raised to the sky. He cried out.

“Praise the flames! I have arrived! My quest is at an end!”

Then he rose to one knee as Lyonette turned. The Antinium tried to take her hand and kiss it with his mandibles.

“Your Highness, I am Squire Rotellen on a quest, in the name of the Order of Solstice! I beg of thee—may we be granted a [Door of Portals] to the order’s keep? And, if this should serve, I am instructed to ask for thirty seats upon the night’s repast.”

Jelaqua was laughing softly at the expression on Lyonette’s face as the [Princess] tried to tug her hand out of Rotellen’s grip and say ‘yes, of course, what quest?’

Then the door to the common room opened, and a man ducked through, rain pattering off his green cloak. Jelaqua turned, and there he was.

Moore.

No, what had Kevin called him? Lord Moore. And it fit. It explained it. This was not the shy half-Giant she knew, who deferred to everyone, who seemed to shrink to appear less imposing.

This was…a stranger, who walked with his head held high with that sense of internal gravitas that belonged to nobles. He was stronger, more dangerous. More magical, she could tell, with an aura like stone and tree—

Older. There were hints of grey in his beard. He was not her Moore. And nor was she his Jelaqua.

That was why they cut each other, like two pieces of glass so sharp they scored the other just by being in proximity.

The Halfseekers. Though she did not know it yet—they were both former Halfseekers. Their teams disbanded. The last two in Jelaqua and Seborn’s case. The last of all in his.

He halted, eyes fixed on her as she leaned against the table, and she tried to stand. Time to talk…Lyonette was already summoning the [Garden of Sanctuary].

But as these things happened, the two Halfseekers didn’t get the chance to step away. Moore was approaching slowly when someone rose to his feet.

“That’s impossible. A half-Giant? I swore I heard that the last half-Giant residing on Izril was dead.”

Hiveno, the [Merchant] Selphid, blinked at Moore, and he turned, distracted. His voice was deeper than Jelaqua remembered, but it stabbed her when he spoke.

“Ah. You’re referring to…Moore. Moore of the Halfseekers. I am his uncle. Lord Mireden Raithland. He was indeed the last half-Giant. I have come from Terandria to Liscor. Are you the ones who helped Captain Ivirith to reach the inn? I thank you.”

He stretched out a hand, and Hiveno took it.

“Merchant Hiveno. I apologize for my indiscretion, Lord Raithland.”

“Not at all. Few would think to remember the distinction at all. Let alone that the Halfseekers had Izril’s last half-Giant.”

The half-Giant murmured, and Jelaqua tried to push herself up. She opened her mouth—and a voice broke in.

“I hate to object, sir, but as fate would have it, I quite remember! The Halfseekers are a team for whom I hold the greatest esteem, both in Liscor and as a child growing up! If I may…your nephew saved so many lives, and I must thank you and Captain Ivirith properly for what they did. I attended the funeral, of course, but I…I never managed to say anything.”

Miss Ambiese raised a hand, and Moore turned to her. Jelaqua turned as well.

“Thank you, Miss Ambiese. And for standing up for me back there. It’s all we wanted.”

The Drake from Veish peered at Jelaqua’s face and the way the Selphid smiled in that strained way, almost self-deprecatingly, and she fumbled with the menu she’d been given. Then she rubbed at one eye.

“I…but you deserve so much more. Oh dear. Oh my. I think I’m tearing up. This is highly embarrassing.”

Lord Mireden hesitated, but then he came over to offer her a handkerchief embroidered with Liscor’s own sigil. Although it was different, as if someone had hung a bunch of bells from a more elegant city’s towers…

“Yes. Yes, they deserved more. Thank you for believing it, Miss.”

He knelt, and he was still far taller than she was. His sorrow was far older than Jelaqua’s, and his hand light as a feather as he rested it on Ambiese’s shoulder. Jelaqua saw someone slip from her chair.

“I told Miss Satar about it! And I cried all day. This is for you, Captain.”

Tirra, the little Gnoll girl, ran over with something in her paws. She nearly fell on her face until Lord Moore wiggled a finger—instead of faceplanting, the girl stumbled as a piece of stone lifted up, supporting a foot. Jelaqua saw the girl catch herself, stare at the ground which had already melted back into the floorboards, and then offer the Selphid something.

It was one of the Silverfang’s trinkets: a silver fang hanging from a necklace. Jelaqua took it.

“Oh, that’s beautiful. Is this for me?”

“Yes, it’s mine, but Mother says you can have it! Please take it? It’s lucky.”

Of course, the Selphid agreed after glancing at Miss Thirka, who nodded and rose. Then, before she knew it, Nule was walking over, hand outstretched.

“Er, Lord Mireden, sir? I reckon this isn’t much, but I wanted to say thank-you as well. My family was behind those walls, and we heard it was your nephew’s team what held back that thing there. We might all be dead, and I—I think I didn’t really give it the thought it deserved afterwards. But your nephew, that Guildmistress, even the fellows with the hats deserve a statue in the city or something. Just like that [General] in the plaza. Or some kind of reward.”

There were nods of agreement, and the half-Giant thanked Nule and glanced at Jelaqua.

“We have statues, sir. That is, the Halfseekers do. As for a reward…being remembered is enough.”

The [Builder] began to nod, then caught himself and looked the half-Giant in the eyes.

“—That’s not true, begging your pardon, Your Lordship. There should be something more.”

He scuffed one foot, embarrassed at speaking to what he thought was clearly a noble. But when he glanced at Jelaqua, the Selphid realized she was smiling.

Dead gods, it hurt. But those words were a far more beautiful dagger. Lord Moore nodded at Nule silently, and Jelaqua coughed.

“That’s the kind of thing we’ve got to say, Nule. Or else it gets to our heads. We can’t count debts like that. The Halfseekers never have.”

She was watching the half-Giant’s face as he leaned on a staff, a huge, magical artifact. Lord Moore didn’t instantly agree with her. Instead, he stared past Jelaqua.

“Perhaps we—your team should have, Captain Jelaqua. Sometimes, they gave so much without a word. Who remembers all their deeds over the three d—two decades you adventured? Theirs is a legacy worthy of any Named-rank team. But because you never won victories in dungeons, instead against bandits for copper coins…who remembers those adventures?”

His voice was bitter and deep, and no one could answer that. Jelaqua saw Kevin sitting at one table, hesitating, as if wanting to jump in, but someone forestalled him. A young Gnoll woman with brown fur, just watching Jelaqua with hungry, sad eyes.

Mrsha and Nanette working at a table with Apista, peeking at them. Ser Dalimont, tossing someone out the window. A spy who’d gotten too nosy? Someone in the crowd who’d been sharp enough to use her to come to the inn?

There is no privacy here. But they couldn’t just walk away, so Jelaqua spoke to him, this older man.

“I met a woman just this morning who remembers. If we did it for the glory, we’d have all quit long ago. It didn’t change her life, mind you. She did her own thing, and we were just…there. Maybe there are some we saved who remember us. But what more could you want? A memory is more than most get.”

She shrugged, and the half-Giant turned to her, and his brown eyes flashed as he clenched a fist.

“The Halfseekers saved a city’s life. Not just…recently. They would have been forgotten except for the memory being written down. Sometimes, I wish it had been insisted on. Sometimes…”

He hesitated. Met her eyes and gazed away. She hung her head.

“Yeah. But we weren’t that important. Besides…Lord Raithland, what’s the point? The dead can hear no applause. Better to be alive. If I could wish for anything, if I deserved anything from all of our adventures, I’d ask for—I’d wish for—”

Her eyes were welling up with tears again. Then she saw it. It hit her like a [Lightning Bolt] out of the blue as the white Gnoll girl froze at her table. Jelaqua’s mouth opened.

“Oh. That’s why. That’s exactly what I…”

She peered at him wordlessly, and the half-Giant nodded and glanced to the side. Then he hunched in his chair.

“You’re wrong, though, Jelaqua. Be it so petty, but a legacy matters. And I will ensure the Halfseekers have theirs in Liscor. Griffon Hunt too. Not something so simple as a statue. Nor children named after our friends and companions. A legacy. Something to be proud of. The virtues you shared with your team, and…”

He clenched a fist.

“Safety. However long it lasts. That battle we fought, won for a hundred thousand people. Won and kept. No more monsters to come back. What we fought for will remain, and no one will tarnish that legacy. If only we remember it, so be it. We know what we did. That is what I came here to do.”

His words stirred the audience, each in a different way. But Jelaqua just saw, in the older Moore’s eyes, something she understood.

“Ah. You’re the last of your own team of crazy adventurers, aren’t you, Lord Raithland?”

The half-Giant blinked, then smiled. He took a mug from a tray that one of the Goblins was carrying around and lifted it, a small cup in his huge hand.

“In another world, another time, Jelaqua. Yes. I…almost didn’t come, you know. I could have retired. What held me back wasn’t the struggle nor the journey or odds. I had every reason to come, because I am needed. But I have been so long alone, I feared this.”

So he was just like her. The Selphid pushed herself up and swiped a mug from her tray. She knew they were all watching her, and she lifted the mug up.

“Fair, Lord Mireden. But I think you know this: the Halfseekers will never adventure again. Whatever we do, whatever we are, we fought our last battle in Liscor.”

“There was never any doubt.”

He whispered. Then they chinked mugs hard—the ale that looked vaguely like piss slopped to the floor and over their hands. It seemed as though the words hurt some of the listeners, but Jelaqua just breathed easy.

“Not again. I could never do it again. We drew a bloody line in the snow, and when I woke, I was tired of it. Tired of finding another line to draw. I needed…we needed to find something else. Some other way. We were always terrible adventurers, because we couldn’t focus on the glory and treasure and our own skins. That was how I let my team down.”

She met his eyes, waiting for judgement from the only being who could give it. And he—his hand cracked the mug as it tightened around it, and then he reforged the wood in his grip. The half-Giant stared at Jelaqua, then past her.

“Perhaps. Perhaps you did let them down, Jelaqua. But you also found each and every one of them. Lost, untrusted, and gave them a purpose. Yes, maybe, you could have given us better lives and we, all the Halfseekers, could be living now.”

She staggered slightly, and the half-Giant’s eyes focused on her. Then he lifted a finger.

“However, if they were there at any moment when it mattered, when there was one less Halfseeker in the world—Moore, Seborn, Garen, Ukrina, Ulinde, all of them—they would have told you to charge. So whose fault was it?”

The Selphid was shaking, laughing, and crying. She forced the words out.

“What a terrible team we were! Here’s to the Halfseekers, the Half Freaks of Izril—they didn’t know when to quit!”

She raised her mug and drank, and not a single person drank with her. So Lord Mireden Raithland rose to his feet, and his voice boomed across the entire inn, making visitors in the portal room start, as if the hills had developed tongues.

“For the Halfseekers of Izril! For everyone who has ever searched for the meaning that eludes them! For those who shared that burden and fought for their better halves!”

Jelaqua saw the young Gnoll woman leap to her feet, and then she knew it was Mrsha. An older Mrsha who grabbed a mug—and Kevin rose with her along with Mrsha and Nanette, the staff, and the Watch—and they took a drink.

The Selphid tossed her mug down and reached out a hand. Moore caught her arm, and she squeezed with all her might and felt his crushing grip on her arm. One of her bones broke; she didn’t care.

They held each other as if to never let go again.



——



Of course, they did let go, and the day did not turn into a full party. That wouldn’t have been appropriate. There were quite a number of tears and a few more toasts by impassioned guests, and Lyonette came out with food and drinks for all, on the house.

But Jelaqua and Moore didn’t hear or see any of it.

They walked in a [Garden of Sanctuary], the Drathian one. It was always scenic; pink cherry blossom petals fluttered down around them as they crossed the red bridge over the koi-infested pond, and Jelaqua wondered if the tree got tired of growing and shedding the blossoms.

Lord Moore gazed at the tree as well as he leaned on the bridge. He seemed like he didn’t know what to say, so he cleared his throat and nodded to the tree.

“It’s got to be four thousand years old—at least. I’m amazed it hasn’t overgrown, but whomever made this [Garden of Sanctuary] did it with more skill than Erin or the other builders.”

“Oh? Four thousand? Really?”

The tree didn’t look that old. Sure, it was old, but even trees died. Lord Moore reached up and caught a petal.

“It’s always shedding blossoms. Haven’t you noticed? It’s under a kind of stasis spell so that it doesn’t age. Fed enough to grow and…”

“Dead gods. That sounds like torture. Not that a plant has feelings.”

The half-Giant chuckled softly as he walked across the bridge to rest a hand on the tree’s bark. He closed his eyes.

“Oh, they do. But this one’s calm. Much like a half-Elf. I’d call it snooty, actually. I never could get on with half-Elves, even after I retired. I dated six—all but one kept trying to elevate themselves over the ‘younger’ races in some way. Age was the only thing they had a great advantage in. So that was how they framed the entire world.”

Jelaqua felt a smile stretching across her face. She’d been afraid she’d start blubbering again, and it was close, but those simple words revealed so much. He was more refined. More confident; her Moore had never criticized unless he truly hated someone. But this one?

“You? Dated?”

He half-turned his head, embarrassed as he brushed blossoms out of his hair.

“I know how that must sound, but, well, yes. After I was alone, I was so damned lonely…I took Seborn’s advice and put myself out there. Being Level 50 didn’t hurt. Most of the teams from my world did the same. I think Erin’s death made everyone treasure the time they had left.”

Oh, and they were right into it. Jelaqua swallowed and tried to keep her voice neutral.

“Really? Everyone? G-got any good gossip?”

The half-Giant glanced at her, then pulled out some bread and began to rip it and toss it into the pond. She stared at the gaping koi mouths as he hmmed.

“Well, Pisces. Married three—no, four times. Poor man.”

“Pisces? No, wait, I can see it. Give him a scrub and stop him sniffing and he’d fool someone. Four times, though? Really?”

The half-Giant shrugged.

“He was trying to keep the Horns together after Ksmvr died.”

“Oh.”

He turned guiltily.

“I’m sorry. I don’t mean to—it’s not happened in this world, has it? It won’t if I have anything to do with—”

She touched his arm. It felt like her nerves were tingling despite them being torn and dead.

“Just tell me. You’re not my Moore, and I’m not your Jelaqua.”

The Selphid’s eyes rose.

“—But we’re Halfseekers. We are, aren’t we?”

His lips moved as he whispered.

“Yes. Always and never again.”

Silence until he handed her some bread. She bounced her first piece off a koi fish’s head as she listened. Moore stared ahead.

“I think…I think it fell apart because Pisces couldn’t ever give up on Erin. It wasn’t that he loved her like that. I don’t think—but Yvlon left. And Ceria? Ceria went mad.”

“The circlet?”

“She’s wearing it in this world?”

“Yep.”

Moore raised the handful of bread to throw, then gently tossed it in the water.

“I’ll try to deal with that too, but that’s magic beyond me. I’m not that great a [Mage].”

“Pull the other one.”

“No, I’m not. Truly. I’m a Level 50 [Lord]-[Mage] combo. I studied all the new magic as it came out, but I wasn’t pioneering it. That would be Valeterisa, Eldavin, and so on. You’re right on track in this world, even if it’s different. Ceria as well…it’s no wonder Pisces couldn’t hold it together by himself.”

“I’ve seen Wistram’s magic all over. It’s insane. Levitating cushions, magical carriages, and even Boots of Flying. Are they going to make [Engineers] obsolete? Also, who’d Pisces marry?”

Moore lifted a hand and brushed at his beard.

“Well, that’s an interesting question—the Wistram one. I’ve been comparing the progress in my world to yours, and you’re ahead and behind. Pisces, though, far more fascinating. The first was Revi. They had a kid together.”

“…I can sort of see that, actually.”

“Apparently, so could she. But she retired, and he didn’t. That was probably the best marriage. The second was Princess Jecaina of Jecrass—”

Jelaqua nearly laughed herself off the railing. Lord Moore gave her a somber gaze.

“I’m serious.”

“A [Princess]? That [Princess]? That’s a terrible idea!”

“Yes. It was. It might have worked except that he married her not four months after he and Revi split.”

“Oh! Oh, Pisces!”

Moore was nodding and smiling. Pained, but the topic of Pisces was like a weird balm. He counted on his fingers.

“They held it together for eight months. And after the second divorce, I think it sort of set expectations. Selys was third, and she should have been first.”

“Firestrike me, Selys…that could have worked.”

“Yes. But not then. Neither one walked into that marriage at the right time, as the right people—she had her own relationships that didn’t work. Age and our times…that one was bitter.”

He exhaled, and now it wasn’t fun. Jelaqua listened with a pain for someone who didn’t exist, in a time that never would be. Moore’s voice dropped low, now.

“Then came the marriage where I didn’t show up. I think the only one who went to it was Mrsha.”

“Please tell me I don’t know who it is.”

Jelaqua wanted to laugh again. Then cry…poor lad. He deserved better than that, but Moore was describing something breaking in the future. And his smile faded.

“Falene Skystrall.”

The Selphid leaned over the railing.

“That’s not funny.”

“No one thought it was. I think they rather liked each other in some strange way. But no…most of the stories I could tell you are like that. I’m sorry, it was amusing until I heard myself talking. We come from a broken world. Maybe it was always broken, our future, but it really did seem to get worse after Erin died. We all pushed ourselves to snapping to help her. I had all but given up except that Mrsha had turned eighteen. She was going on one last adventure, and I thought…that was it. Maybe, just maybe—”

Lord Moore turned to Jelaqua, and there were tears in his eyes.

“That’s how it fell apart for a decade, Jelaqua. That’s why I came back. To avert it. I know the secrets of Liscor’s dungeon. I have slain the Mother of Graves. This time, her plans will come to naught.”

He stood before her, and she had nothing to say. If she had been masking her grief in Pallass playing at Maughin’s wife…Jelaqua nodded. Then she whispered the real question.

“So, what do you remember last?”

Not—yesterday or anything trivial like that. He understood. The half-Giant turned, and the reflected flames blazed in his brown eyes. His grief-stricken face turned, and he whispered.

“My city burning. Rhir’s damned [Heroes] pouring up the hill—and everything I thought would last this time vanishing. I stood in the doorway as long as I could, until it cracked and there was nothing left. My entire world a dream. Then I remember laughing like a madman and hoping reality was brighter.”

A fragment of glass, a fake man turned to Jelaqua Ivirith, and she whispered as the snow stung her face. The howling of Draugr and a battle in the distance condensing down to a single point. A decision already made.

“I thought she didn’t belong. The Hag Queen. It wasn’t fair. There was no way to prepare for her, no way to see her coming, let alone the Draugr. And I thought—if we went slow, we might stop them after a few streets. Harry them. And I was counting—counting. Maybe it’d only be a dozen. A few dozen. If she started reanimating them, if they breached the gates fully, maybe thousands. But the city could fight. It should fight. No one should ask it of us. I shouldn’t. Then I remember her laughing and trying to reach her. Just reach her and—”

She blinked, and tears were running down her face.

“—And then I woke up, and for a second, I thought we’d made it. Before I heard Seborn crying.”

Neither one said anything, then.

After a while, they kept moving. The Selphid and half-Giant knew each other, then. Strangers, now, telling each other what was and what might be.

They had always been on the same team.

“So, Wistram.”

“Right, Wistram! Bunch of magical artifacts everywhere. Is that the future or what?”

Lord Moore handed Jelaqua a ring.

“This is the future.”

“This? Whoa! It’s tiny! I could swallow it!”

“Please don’t. Everyone was on their rings so much in my world that I feel so out-of-touch today, not calling up everyone or sending messages. It’s not that magical.”

“Pull the other one.”

“No, really. This kind of magic is everyday; you charge them up at stations because magical gemstones are so expensive. But the big magic? [Flying]? No one can do that cheap. You can buy a [Flying] spell, but it’s still expensive. That’s why I think Wistram Academy is lying.”

Jelaqua’s head tilted, and her ears perked up with some more actionable reality.

“How’s that then? Archmage Eldavin made some actual Boots of Flying. Is it a lower-tier spell? Or some other trick?”

Lord Moore stroked his beard.

“No, I well believe he can make them. However, the question is—how many?”

“Ahh. But people are ordering them.”

“I’m sure he’s having them outbid each other, but I would very much like to know how many such goods he can produce. Archmage Valeterisa stays at this inn—watch her, she’ll change magic forever—and she’s been complaining about making magical items to fulfill a quota.”

“She would complain. She’s too busy humping Relc to do anything.”

The half-Giant chuckled.

“They were never together in my…that’s good. She looks so different. No, I rather think that she’s being press-ganged into making artifacts because no one else can.”

“Ooh. So we’re looking at dozens of Relic-class items appearing, not hundreds or tens of thousands?”

Lord Moore lifted a finger, and now his face grew crafty in a way the old Moore’s had sometimes been. Jelaqua was too tired to cry, so she just smiled. He glanced around.

“Not even dozens, perhaps. My suspicion is that Archmage Eldavin is using a very limited resource to make these Boots of Flying. A levitating cushion? Anyone can do that. It’ll hog far more mana than Wistram is advertising. Too many and a city will go mana-negative—they’re overvaluing their products. But Relic-class items require a substance that isn’t being mined anywhere in the world—yet.”

“Which is?”

She wondered if he’d keep her in the dark, but the half-Giant merely winked at her.

“It’s called ‘seith’, and finding it will revolutionize magic. But it only comes from the deep, deep sea where it condenses. Drowned Folk were the only producers of the stuff in my world—obviously, nations like the Blighted Empire were trying to acquire more, but my bet is that Eldavin needs it, Archmage of Memories or not.”

Jelaqua swore she’d heard that word coming up more than once before, but she couldn’t place her finger on it.

“So Wistram’s crashing all the other markets, including Pallass’ Engineering Guild, with empty promises?”

“Promises they can’t fulfill at scale, certainly. But there is fire under the smoke. And if they continue expanding their dominance…I have a little plan to counter them in Liscor, but anything larger is beyond me. The Mother of Graves is my focus now.”

He grew serious again, and Jelaqua shivered and glanced down.

“Okay. You keep throwing that name out, but I don’t even know…her. I’m ready. Tell me who that is and what you’re doing.”

The half-Giant gazed at her, and now the pain was on his face, and the determination. He murmured.

“Are you sure? This is the tale of how you died, Jelaqua.”

She beamed up at him as she took his arm.

“Well, it’s about time we got to the easy stuff! C’mon, you big lug. How can I help?”

“You’re retired, Jelaqua. And you’re going to stay that way.”

“Oh, right…”

They strolled through the garden as the Selphid sighed. But even when she looked up at him, striding along and listing his plans out, she and he both agreed, silently, as they met each other’s eyes.

Never again.



——



It was no [Immortal Moment], their stroll in the Drathian garden together, and they did talk until they were both fairly hoarse, then returned to the inn where they were given a nervous welcome.

Jelaqua smiled at Lyonette and gave her a thumbs up. She was ready to explode with emotions—and knowledge. However, as Lord Mireden pointed out while glancing at a glowing ring projecting an image into the air…

“It’s only 2 PM. I truly can’t be drunk yet today. I have work to do. Jelaqua, will you walk with me some more? You could watch me put part of the plan into action.”

Jelaqua glanced up from where she was taking huge gulps of water at the bar. She pointed at the track-lines of yellow on her cheeks from all the crying.

“What? Hell no! I’ve already nearly died of dehydration! I’m going to be blubbering like a seal baby if I walk with you, you gigantic prat. Give me an hour or two to breathe! Then I’ll have more questions. We’ll have a drink tonight or something.”

She was going to go berserk if she kept this up, and the half-Giant bowed to her with a slight smile.

“Fair. We have our own lives, and…I haven’t had the courage to face Seborn.”

“I wouldn’t. Dead gods.”

She leaned against him, then jumped back. They gazed at each other, strangers who hurt each other, but they’d come back, she knew. Like magnets armed with lances. She forced herself back, away.

“You…I was going to murder you for a second. Now I want to know how this happened and thank someone. Possibly punch them.”

Lord Moore lifted a hand.

“Thank them, I think. They’ve paid too high a price already. And their reasons—listen to their reasons.”

Oh, this was going to be sad. Jelaqua cast around.

“I need a pitcher of water or I will croak. And a new body. This one’s tear ducts are clogging.”

“Gross as ever, Captain.”

He tried to hide a smile as he turned his head. Then he was striding from the inn, and Jelaqua collapsed into a seat. Only when someone patted her on the arm did she peek up.

Jelaqua? How are you feeling?

A very worried Mrsha was standing there, nose a bit snotty. She’d been crying too. Jelaqua swept her into her arms.

“I’m going to be fine, Mrsha. It’s just…hah! This inn!”

She buried her face in the girl’s shoulder. Then looked up.

It’s you. You’re the one. It was always the eyes. Mrsha had the expression of children who’d gone to war. She hadn’t had that before, for all she’d lived. Jelaqua held her gently.

“Good job, kid. You stole something back from the tally of Baleros, the ledger of the deeps. Crossed one off the adventurer’s lists. Now you’ve got to tell me how it happened, but properly. Every great deed needs to be told well, got it? Later, okay? We’ve got all the time for a good tale.”

Mrsha’s eyes filled up again, and Jelaqua ruffled her hair.

“I’d make a great parent. Eh, probably not.”

She let Mrsha go and turned. Some of the people who’d helped her here were leaving, but all of them took their time to say goodbye. Thank her again—and the inn’s staff and Lyonette were all giving her this eye.

No wonder Moore ran for it. This is going to be underwater with snot and tears if I stay. So Jelaqua pulled herself up.

“I’m for Pallass. Can, uh, someone help me?”

Well then, nothing would do but Peggy and Mrsha support her, and the lopsided combo got her to the [Door of Portals]. Jelaqua found it funny how no one knew how to get to the inn, even though it was literally right out the door.

Some Skill. I have to ask about Lyonette’s cracks too. Ah, she was getting embroiled in the inn. That was okay, but Jelaqua was conscious she had a life in Pallass. Like she’d said to Moore—the Halfseekers were no more. She could be a friend, but not the last person standing in the inn between the monsters.

Perhaps the inn was ready for the next one. She hoped so. Jelaqua waited in line and realized, once again, she had a delay.

“Only people exiting through the door! We’re closed for an hour! Yeah, yeah, cry me a river!”

Liska was shouting at the people waiting outside. She was speaking with Lyonette and, of all people, Knight Rotellen. Why was it closing?

Oh, right. The new door. Liska rubbed her paws together.

“Good thing I actually know where this new anchor has to be. Hey presto! Abracadabra! New…door!”

She waved her paws around, then pointed at the [Door of Portals]. Much to the chagrin of everyone watching, that worked. Liska swung the door open and then hopped out.

“Ooh, nice and sunshiney. Is this right up against the High Passes? Yep, I can even see the other pass! Nice fort. Very block-like.”

She admired the Order of Solstice’s keep, and Lyonette peered outside.

“This is near Orefell. More mining. We’re happy to offer transport to the Knights of Solstice, of course, Squire Rotellen! And I do apologize about the confusion—I’d love to speak to Normen now, if he’s here?”

The Squire was raising all four arms skywards.

“No more damned rain! Praise the flames! The Grandmaster may be here, Princess Lyonette, or on a crusade against the forces of evil.”

“Oh my, which ones?”

Jelaqua limped onto the grass to see the new place since she wasn’t that strapped for time. She saw the Order of Solstice’s keep was indeed a rather ugly block of stones, but it was well under construction, and there were distant figures in armor training in cleared ground. They were next to a road, and…she squinted.

“Are those Eater Goats? Fuck, someone get a weapon!”

She pointed, and Mrsha’s eyes widened in alarm. Peggy began to drag them back into the inn, but Rotellen just nodded.

“Ah, yes. Our new beasts of war. They come from the village that trains Eater Goats. I would love to show you all around the keep; especially you, Captain Jelaqua.”

The Selphid opened her mouth and hesitated. After all this?

But ‘Eater Goat pets’—you just had to.



——



It was actually the subject of an argument when the group approached. Knight Ama was arguing with none other than Normen himself.

“They were chewing on Sillias! And one ate my Gargoyle skeleton’s leg! We don’t need them!”

A very defensive Antinium wearing armor was petting a goat in his hands.

“But they are adorable, vicious pets that may be sacrificed in battle, Knight Ama!”

“This is insane, even for us! And I’m the one animating Gargoyle skeletons as footsoldiers! Normen, if one more of them tries to nibble my robes, I’m going to—oh hey, look, the inn’s here.”

Ama turned, and Grandmaster Normen smiled as he saw everyone.

“Squire Rotellen, we were going to search for you! But no one could remember where the inn was. I assume this is something new and normal?”

He glanced at Lyonette, and she took a breath.

“Yes, Normen. It’s on purpose. I, ah—”

He lifted a hand.

“Say no more. Just let us know how we can get there, and we’ll adapt. It’s a good measure.”

It was a reminder that Normen was a veteran of the inn’s staff. He just welcomed everyone into the Order of Solstice’s keep.

“I’d offer you refreshments, but I think yours are far better. Everything is under construction. The armory is a mess, and we’d finish building it—the Antinium [Squires] are excellent, except that we’re too busy—”

There was a hornblast that made everyone jump, and Normen winced. None other than Jewel came racing around the corner with Durene and Vess.

“Bandits! They’re around Reizmelt! I need twenty [Squires] in ten minutes! Let’s get the bastards! Oh hey, Lyonette. The inn’s not facing another Goblin King? Good! Charge!”

She ran out of the unfinished war room, and Jelaqua saw twenty of the practicing [Knights] turn, then charge after Jewel, Durene, and Vess towards a wagon. They seemed ready to race into the distance except for the wagon which rolled to a stop.

The Heavy Roller, Chaoisa, the Contempt of Man, was burning her orange flame, and the [Knights] piled into her wagon—as many could fit. The rest ran to the stables, and they practically stormed down the road.

“Oh my. You’re rather…active, Normen. Should you be fighting [Bandits] already?”

Lyonette sounded dismayed, but Normen just grinned, and Jelaqua was entirely approving.

“They’ve got to prove they’re worth all the support, Lyonette. You can’t just take your time building things and go out when you’re ready. This is messy and good for these fellows. Some [Knights] you can catch with their pants down because they think you signal when it’s time to fight and they have all day to breakfast and stretch. Not this lot.”

Normen nodded gratefully at her.

“That’s right. I look at it like a street fight. Any moment, anywhere. Though I’d love if you had input on how we’re organizing. It is still messy, Captain…”

Jelaqua didn’t mind. She let Normen show her around and made a few comments about how she’d done things in Baleros and best practices—and the entire while, she was remembering Moore.

Later. Later. Mrsha was clinging to her, and Lyonette left after a moment. She claimed to be tired—Jelaqua eyed Peggy.

“Is she hurt? Give it to me straight, Peggy.”

The Hobgoblin sucked on her teeth.

“Yah, she hurt bad. That a secret, and she did it to herself. But good! We all super proud of her.”

She nodded, and Mrsha did too. Jelaqua shook her head ruefully as Normen gave them a curious look. He coughed.

“I can see I have a lot to catch up on. We’re taking some of the [Squires] to the inn for food. More now that Jewel’s run off. I’d go with her, but one of the [Knights] has to be here at all times. Where was I? Armory, right…anti-thief measures are very important. This is the only finished part of the keep. I wasn’t sure, but it makes sense in hindsight. This is what we need.”

The only part of the keep that was fully enclosed, and had been built with the most care, was the polished marble flooring and rather grand room with a long carpet beyond two double doors.

Ostentatious—Jelaqua thought it’d be some kind of meeting room, but when the doors opened, she just sighed.

“Of course. You’re really her [Knights] after all, aren’t you?”

The little Gnoll girl, Hobgoblin, and Selphid saw the room beyond had no window. No natural light. But it was filled with flames, which would have been a considerable problem given the smoke, except they were all magical flames, burning not on regular fuel but pools of bright stone. Magicore.

Each one stood on a brazier of its own with room for more along the alcoves on the walls. And the alcoves were likewise bare and empty.

All except for one.

The [Knight] who stood in stone held a lantern up and had a greatsword on one shoulder. Embraim, the first Antinium Knight of Solstice, stood before the brazier with a single word etched onto it. The pink flames roared as Jelaqua’s eyes were consumed by them.

Glory.

A [Bowman] stood before the blue flames, his lips a line of determination, as weighty as the blue flames which burned there.

Halrac Everam. Again, she was struck, and the blue flames roared with sadness, depression, the weight of that one man.

She turned her head and saw, in the center of the room, a Gnollish [Knight] standing like a suit of armor, clasping a sword between both paws. Brunkr…and Herove’s image was carved into a statue kneeling against the far wall. Zanze, the [Driver], sat next to him, torch raised in one hand.

Smiling. Normen glanced at the man before he faced the others.

“This is where we keep the fire. Not that we cannot generate it ourselves, but the [Squires] need it. They come in here almost daily. It’s a kind of ritual. I think it will be good for us. It should be humbling.”

Normen stood before the green flame of honor and gazed into the brazier. The flames rose higher as he passed a hand over them, and they danced between his fingers.

Peggy was wondering, eyes aglow as she gazed between flames. From grey mercy to Durene’s red of kindness to other flames like Antherr’s combination hazel fire that burned with determination.

Jelaqua saw both weapon and meaning in this room. And she imagined the [Knights] preparing for battle, dipping their lanterns in a flame and bearing it forth.

Someday, this will be a Knight Order as famous as the Order of Seasons. If they survive. The Selphid didn’t say that out loud, and Normen coughed and turned.

“I needn’t tell you all about the flames. Or the [Emberbearer] who started it all.”

He ruffled Mrsha’s hair, and she swatted at him.

Stop that! I’m just a survivor. You’re way cooler than I ever was.

He gazed down at Mrsha, then at Jelaqua. Normen knew what she’d just been told about, and he nodded sympathetically.

“Tonight, we shall talk, if it is appropriate. I won’t take up your time. All of you are welcome to visit the keep; especially you, Captain Ivirith, if you wished to impart some wisdom.”

“I’ll look in my boots for it.”

Instead of taking offense, Normen just grinned. But he halted them before they left this special room of fire.

“Before you go, may I offer you a gift? It is again—traditional for as long as we’ve done it, all of four weeks. That’s how we got the Eater Goats, actually. There’s a village near here that gifted them to us. Like attack dogs, but…they’re good for corpse disposal, I guess.”

He wasn’t sold on the Eater Goats, but he walked over and found something. Lanterns. The Order of Solstice had tons of them—some carved out of wood, others burnished metal and glass. He handed each of them the cheap, wooden ones. Then nodded at the braziers.

“If you’d like—take one. All except the black flames. Those are off-limits to guests.”

His three guests regarded each other.

“What, the fire? You just giving this away?”

Peggy was incredulous. Normen smiled. He had a twinkle in his eyes, and he replied in that accent from the streets.

“Free’s free. A fellow walks away with anything in his pockets, and the flames are magical, but cheap, as it were. All they need is fuel to burn. It’s a fancy gift that impresses everyone from Couriers to nobles and costs us not a copper.”

“You penny-pinching bastard. You’re Lyonette’s disciple too.”

Jelaqua laughed. Normen winked as Mrsha puffed up with outrage. Give away Erin’s flames?

But it wasn’t the [Innkeeper]’s choice. Normen forestalled Mrsha’s outrage with a hand.

“I think, soon, we will hold flames that even Erin does not know, Mrsha. Those will be ours. Besides…most cannot keep the flames alive. They burn for a day, a week, even a month. No more. I believe, though, you might keep them alive as long as you want.”

He was eying Jelaqua, now, and the Selphid didn’t understand. She swept her eyes around the room as Mrsha took a lantern, then decided she wanted some of Antherr’s flame. Peggy already was scooping up some blue flames.

“What? Sometimes you want to be sad. Ooh, nice and heavy.”

“Which should I pick?”

Normen shrugged.

“Go to what calls to you. The flame will pick you.”

He paused, then leaned over to Mrsha.

“It really does sound better when I talk like that. Very impressive. Is there another movie in that series? Jewel wants to watch the second one.”

Oh, buddy, there are a bunch. I’ll cue them up for you if Jewel gets back by tonight.

Jelaqua ignored them as she walked between the braziers. She felt each flame washing over her, emphasizing the idea in her chest. When she stood before mercy, she truly did feel it in her—invigorating her capacity to feel mercy, and perhaps, the mercy she might not deserve.

If you could not understand it, if you had little of it, the flames shrank. Depression grew as Jelaqua walked past it, but she didn’t want that. She had enough, thanks. She was walking back to Normen to say she couldn’t choose when one of the flames shot from the brazier until it touched the ceiling.

Pink flames roared up, and Normen shielded his face as Peggy and Mrsha flinched. Jelaqua spun.

The pink flames rose until they were like a pillar of glorious fire, burning before her eyes. Jelaqua gaped at it.

“I think you’ve found the right flame, Jelaqua.”

“Me? But I haven’t done anything glorious at all recently!”

Jelaqua protested loudly as Normen took a better lantern from the wall. The [Knight] ignored her as he filled the lantern from the brazier.

“I know better than to argue with fire. Besides, Captain. What is time? Look.”

The flames reacted to Jelaqua’s touch. When she took the lantern tentatively, the fire attached to the candles roared, and it became a blazing, pink conflagration contained within the glass. It was so bright Mrsha shielded her eyes, and her mouth was open.

“I—does it know if I deserve this? Or is it just what I believe?”

Jelaqua gazed at the lantern, and she wondered if it was reacting to what was in her heart. The Halfseekers as they charged the Hag Queen. But also every teammate she’d ever had seemed reflected in that fire.

“I don’t know. Perhaps it’s your own sense of it. But I like to imagine you can’t trick the flames with mere belief. Do you think it suits you, Jelaqua?”

The Selphid didn’t reply. She gazed into the roaring flames, and the Gold-rank Captain peered around. She lifted the lantern up and turned her head.

Garen, Ulinde, her Moore, Keilam…they were reflected in the Selphid’s eyes, shining with pink fire. Without a word, Jelaqua holstered the lantern at her side. She regarded Normen.

“If it’s just what I believe, I could burn down all of Baleros. But what’s my opinion worth, eh?”

She grinned, and behind her, glory howled skywards like a beacon. Mrsha and Normen exchanged a gaze, and then the girl handed him a card.

You should really cut some holes in the ceiling in case it does that again.

Normen eyed the scorched stones.

“Yep. Back to construction work. I need to hire Hexel.”



——



The flames of glory were still burning with Jelaqua when she returned to Pallass to get a new body. Ishkr helped her there, then vanished, and she changed bodies and then sat for a while in her dark home, staring at the flames.

Soon, she’d go and cry some more, then talk to Maughin, and they were definitely snuggling tonight to share their feelings.

But for a moment, she just sat with the lantern in her hands. It wouldn’t stop blazing.

“So why not? I deserve this, don’t I? Eh, fuck, is that from another of Mrsha’s movies as well? Parent’s tits, I’m doing it.”

Jelaqua slapped her knees and got up. She strode around, cursing and searching for the right receptacle, then sighed and went jogging into Pallass with a bag of gold. When you had enough and a Walled City, you found what you needed.

That was how the Selphid spent her evening. When she grabbed Maughin and towed him to The Wandering Inn for supper, his mother, Vhiren, missed seeing her son. Which was naturally very rude of Jelaqua as she’d been planning on a dinner with Maughin! He’d left a note via Linteca saying something had come up!

She came up to find Jelaqua, assuming they were in their home, and saw a bunch of Jelaqua and Maughin’s neighbors and passersby forming a crowd around the home. When the Dullahan [Baker] approached, she too halted.

Jelaqua Ivirith hadn’t done much in the way of home decorations. Partly because she didn’t really want the critiques from Dullahans who’d feel she was interfering with the traditional elements of Maughin’s home, but mainly because she didn’t care.

Her first and only additions to their home were a pair of large stone plinths that the Selphid had dragged up here herself. Both had big, metal basins in the center, and they sat next to the stone doorway.

Oh—and they were filled with pink flames. The fire of glory had no fuel. But it still blazed, illuminating the home with magical light. They’d burn until Jelaqua’s own vision of the meaning behind the fire faded.

So, eternal fire. It was a nice touch, Jelaqua felt. It really held the home together. But she wasn’t there to stare at the home.

She was in The Wandering Inn, tickling Mrsha despite the girl trying to claim she was too adult for tickle-fights, until the giggling began and Mrsha fought back. And Kevin was under her other arm as she gave him the noogie of two lifetimes.

The Selphid peered up as the doors opened and a giant of a man ducked in. Well, half-Giant. She raised a hand.

“Over here, you big slowpoke!”





Author’s Note:

AM DONE

AAAH IT WAS SUPPOSED TO BE HALF THAT AND HAVE ALL OF MOORES SECTION

I’M OUT

FUCK THIS



…Those are my notes from the stream. As you can tell, I may have worked hard on this.

Writing over 10,000 words in a day is not easy, even if I can do it semi-reliably. Keeping focus that long…well, I have wondered if I have ADHD given my ability to work for long stretches.

But also, it’s just telling stories I like, and I like these moments, painful as they can be. In movies, sometimes, the emotional moments feel like padding between the big events and inauthentic; the low point before the rising action if they’re done bad.

But I still want to see them each time. I would rather not a world where we skip the grief and processing of events, good and bad. Because the shorthand that creates in characters are people who exist only in their triumphs, which I think is quintessential bad writing. The only way we appreciate a triumph is by also following the characters down. It’s never when someone hits the summit that matters, it’s the climb, the slip.

I’m being philosophical. I blame low, low sleep, and I hope you enjoy this chapter. I am continuing to be in the writing zone, though I’m taking today, Wednesday, off so I can recharge. Part of good writing is also lowering that wordcount to get to the point.

Working on it. Look forward to another chapter before Saturday!

—pirateaba





Christmas Comic by Duchess Ivory! (An amazing work that hurts the heartstrings! But it’s beautiful and huge props to them.)



Goblinhome and Charlay Animated by Moerchen!





Bird and Sky by Carbon!





Admiral Dakelos by Kazah!





Doll Lyonette by Karu!





Antinium Sprites by onionlittle!

Ko-Fi: https://ko-fi.com/littleonion

Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/littleonion.art/

Bluesky: https://bsky.app/profile/onionlittle.bsky.social





Hornet Nanette by Brack!

Ko-Fi: https://ko-fi.com/brack

Twitter: https://twitter.com/Brack_Giraffe





Innworld Map by Precisa Disso!





Interlude – Halfseekers (Pt. 3)


He had so much to do and so little time. So he didn’t stop, even to lean on an old friend’s shoulder and weep. The tears would undo them both, like a crack in a mountain that a river tore through. And he was no great mountain.

Not yet, not ever in likeliness. But he was all Liscor had, so the half-Giant walked.



——



It had always been like this, you see. Whenever he ducked to enter a room, heads turned. He was never unnoticed; even after weeks, the young Gnoll woman lounging on her couch jumped when she saw him.

“Oh, hey. It’s you again.”

Liska was taking her ease, idly sending people through the door, but she sped up when she saw Lord Moore in line. The half-Giant smiled faintly. He often smiled. In the past, he’d hunched over and even picked flowers to wear.

Anything to make the small people feel less nervous. Because when they were nervous, they got violent. As if his being larger than them alone was a threat.

It was enough to drive you to madness. To hate them. But you had to also love them and their silly little ways. Silly, in that they did all the things that he did. They loved, laughed, and had secrets and ambitions—but whenever they saw him, they seemed to think he was somehow grander, more dangerous, more important than they were. Just because he was tall.

Liska was sending people through the doors faster now, but they lingered, turning to stare up at him. Lord Moore found this, too, funny. He was merely ten feet tall. True, taller than even a Minotaur might be, horns and all, taller than Centaurs, but quite, quite short for a half-Giant. Still, they stared, and children pointed as their parents hurried them back, as if he might fall on them.

It was true, if Moore fell and hit someone, it would hurt them more than he. But the danger was exaggerated. Strong men tried to puff out their chests around him. Warriors checked their blades, then pretended not to. [Mages] were the worst; they tried to act as if he were natural and they were unimpressed.

To walk amongst smallfolk was to always be an outsider, to ever be noticed. It was hard. A younger man, a younger Moore had been more self-conscious, more embarrassed, more alone. The Halfseekers had given him a family.

The [Lord] of future days, who called himself Mireden Raithland, the Moore of a world where Erin Solstice had never woken up, ten long years into the future—he gazed around, and everything here hurt him. It was all so…innocent. For all they had endured, this city had never fallen. The inn still lived.

He had sworn the moment he turned around and ran back towards that door in the [Palace of Fates] that he would keep his future from ever becoming reality. But he had…no…time.

So much to do, but he did not shove ahead in line and took the moment to speak to Liska.

“Hey, Lord M—Raithland. Uh, sorry about the delay. How’s it, uh—I always wanted to know, is being tall really inconvenient?”

His lips cracked into a real grin as she blinked up at him. He had never really known the Liska of his world well. This one was higher-level, and her banal questions were funny, because she asked the ones everyone did. He replied in a low voice that could boom over anyone else’s.

“A funny question, Liska. I once met a group of Fraerlings in Baleros.”

Her eyes widened. The people in line turned to him, fascinated by a species they thought never to meet. If any of them wanted, they could have made the journey, and it was far easier with Paeth. But so many said, ‘that shall never happen to me.’

If they wanted to, they could have an adventure. They dreamed of it, wrote it in their books, made great boasts. Few realized they could if they dared it. Fewer still had the courage.

What a waste, Moore would have said as a younger man. In his forties, now, he thought it made sense. If you were happy, why make the journey into the unknown? If you never saw monsters and wonders with your own eyes, well, had you lived a life any worse than his? Moore had slain horrors and held Relics of the old world in his hands.

He had no children of his own. He had never married in his other world. You could place his deeds and the city he had helped rebuild on a scale with a father and his son, and who could say which weighed more?

So—the half-Giant smiled down at Liska.

“The Fraerlings I met asked me the same question. What is it like being so tall? I told them that it was surely special. I must be the most unique of people for I am so much taller, just as they are extraordinary and their lives so much harder for being so small.”

He paused.

“We laughed upon it for hours.”

Liska was slightly open-mouthed as she gazed up at him. She didn’t realize he had finished until she saw him ducking towards the [Door of Portals]. The half-Giant felt rainwater touch his skin. He shielded his face with one hand, then straightened.

A [Guardswoman] standing in front of the [Door of Portals] backed up, the Drake’s mouth open as the half-Giant emerged from the door to Liscor. The people in line backed up a step, and again, Lord Moore grinned.

He stood in his city, in Shivertail Plaza, and gazed around, breathing in the wet odors of the spring rains. To him, it was so familiar though this city seemed too poor, too dingy and small compared to the one he remembered. His heart still wept for the citizens, so few of whom had escaped into the [Palace of Fates].

This time, I will build it better. Rest easy, Moore of the Halfseekers. This is my task, and I am readier for it than you could ever be.

He was Mireden Raithland now, he reminded himself. Not Moore. He bore only his memories and knowledge from the future. The other Moore, the one who had lived and died on Liscor’s grounds, was an old stranger to him. He might not approve of all that Lord Raithland did. The half-Giant wished that version of him who had left for another world all the love and life he deserved.

This was no task for young men. He had a silent and secret war to wage against the Mother of Graves.

He had a city to protect, to lead, and to do that, he would have to play the powergames he’d learned over the course of a decade.

Most of all…he wished to keep that legacy of the Halfseekers and to put a finger on the tiller of the events that would occur in this world, and that was not an easy nor light thing to do. It was a thorny garden he would have to water with gold, blood, sweat, and tears. Even he had no idea which flowers would bloom from them, but he could prune what he didn’t like.

So. The half-Giant set about his first task of the day. Not stealthily; eyes followed him as he walked out of the plaza. He could never be stealthy, so he did the opposite. He spun his staff, and when it struck the cobblestones, people walking ahead of him glanced up for the thunder in the skies.



——



Liscor’s elections were ongoing, a fact that concerned few in The Wandering Inn. Given what they had endured, it was no surprise to Lord Moore. The inn was rapidly becoming an independent force; the taxes incident was just further proof of this. They could let Liscor be, but he cared about these elections greatly.

It was his goal to win a seat on the Council. The problem was the contest for Liscor’s seats had been underway for months when he had appeared. He was a nobody, without support or backing. Also, technically, he wasn’t even a Liscorian citizen. He had no district to run in.

But if he wanted to move Liscor, he had to be on the Council. So the half-Giant had made several steps. First, he had borrowed money from Lyonette to buy a home in the 3rd District of Liscor. Citizenship was quite easy given the current Council’s attitude towards immigration. He was then in a runoff with anyone in his district, which would be accorded three new seats in the Council.

Technically, that was too low if Lord Moore’s rough count of the population in the new area of Liscor was correct. But the Drakes and Gnolls of the old city did not want to cede more of their seats to the new Human-majority areas in 3rd District. Even the old Council was biased, though he rather suspected he might like them more than the new one if the votes went ill.

It didn’t matter. He didn’t have the political capital to move any elections for candidates he favored. Getting a seat was hard enough.

Residency established—there was already some understanding of his presence in Liscor. People had seen him blocking spells when the Goblin King had been rampaging. And the rumor of ‘Moore’s uncle’ also gave him some credence as a [Lord]—a class he did possess.

Lord Moore was a [Green Lord of the Cured City]. His level, well…he’d thought about disclosing it. It might win him the Council seat on the merits of that alone, but he’d rather lay low in that sense.

Too many questions arose when people realized what level he was. In this, or his world, he was a dangerous force, but again, unsupported by a city’s might. So! The half-Giant’s task of the day was simple.

Establish his credibility and, in simpler terms still, attract attention. For a half-Giant?

It was so easy. He could do it even walking.

Lord Moore’s staff was a piece of Oteslia’s great tree. A branch had fallen to earth when, in his world, its Dragon rebelled and fled. He had paid a handsome sum for a carving of it; it was a broad staff, even for his hand, crowned with a huge emerald from Salazsar’s mines.

Not the finest Relic-class item ever to exist, but powerful and, most importantly, sturdy. It was wider than the legs of some Humans. As Lord Moore walked, he casually began to twirl it in the rain.

He had no fear of hitting anyone; even wagon drivers tried to avoid him before the huge staff began to spin. It whirled through the air, faster than you could believe, spraying water around as he rotated it one-handed.

Moore transferred the staff to his other hand as a vendor at their stall ducked, fearing the staff might slip from his grip. He saw a Gnoll boy gazing at him, mouth open, and winked one eye.

Thum.

When the butt of the staff struck the ground, it sounded like thunder. People around the half-Giant jumped, and he struck the ground twice more.

Thum-thum!

Then he whirled it around overhead before his right hand caught it again. The simple whirling pattern was so easy to do as he walked; he could have done it for hours. Lord Moore debated throwing the staff up, but suspected he would be asked to stop if he did that.

These were not the capabilities of old Moore, incidentally. In magic and combat, Lord Mireden was far ahead of the Gold-rank adventurer.

And it worked. As was the way of things, it was children who first paid attention to the thrumming in their shoes or saw the figure moving through the crowd and tugged at their parents’ hands to see. The busy men and women saw the spinning staff and first moved back out of ‘danger’, then hesitated.

They had jobs, lives to lead. This emergency or that event. Did they have time for…?

Then they looked twice and remembered something they’d been told.

The last half-Giant of Izril was dead. Then who was this? They felt their knees shaking and saw the bearded head turn as he walked with robes that rustled like the whisper of old forests. His gaze passed over adults who remembered reading stories as children, books about Giants.

So, shoppers stepped out of line. [Shopkeepers] locked up for a second. Parents and children followed, pointing, and a procession began. Like people going to a festival. Hurrying, steps tripping over each other to keep up, as if they had to follow.

In case they missed seeing something that never would be again. The last sight of their lifetime, and the world’s. He walked so proudly, as if he knew it all. And he nodded at them as they halted, unsure if they were just bothering this stranger. But his smile said, silently:

Yes. Follow me. I do not mind. I know who I am.

So, they did.



——



The half-Giant strode across the main street of Liscor, people parting around him, until he reached his destination. Surveyed it in a moment and nodded. He was conscious of the crowds following him, and also unbothered at the same time. They would always be there. Like background noise. He happened to need witnesses, now and later, so it was doubly fine. But his words were only to himself.

“Yes. This will do.”

His destination was the northern gates of Liscor. Lord Moore swept his eyes over the little altar that Jelaqua had found, closed them, breathed in and out, and then did something odd, if anyone was watching. And everyone was watching out of the corner of their eyes.

He planted his staff in the ground where it stood straight, without wavering, and then clapped his hands together. He bowed his head, briefly, then picked up his staff and turned around. He began marching back the way he’d come. As if he’d confirmed…something.

Odd. Baffling. Perhaps he was paying respects to the shrine for his nephew? But he hadn’t even approached it. Again, if you were watching, he was an enigma, this half-Giant. Lord Moore felt vaguely sorry if you were lurking in an alleyway, rain dripping onto your raincoat like, say, a certain Watch Captain and two other [Guards].

He knew he’d gotten on Watch Captain Zevara’s list after his first encounter with her in Invrisil. She was an unknown quantity to him; she’d died before he’d become enmeshed in Liscor, and he knew Embria far better. The Watch following him wasn’t a problem, anyways. Moore strode back the way he’d come at a pace that would have them running to keep up.

He only halted once when he heard the familiar sounds of a commotion. The half-Giant turned his head as he passed a side street, then went down it.

In a city, there was always daily strife of some kind. In this case, a crowd of dozens, people hurrying out of the way, calls for the Watch, to stop—people hurrying children back or watching—the half-Giant saw the cause since he could easily gaze over the heads of everyone else.

A fight. A Drake and a Human man going bare-knuckle in the rain. One had a bloody mouth, and the other’s shirt was ripped off as well as his raincloak; he had two bruises on his scales. They were grappling with each other, cursing and slipping on the cobblestone street, when Lord Moore walked through the crowd.

Without slowing, he let go of his quarterstaff, grabbed both men, and pulled them apart. So gently that they were still throwing punches and kicks when they glanced up and froze.

So did the crowd. One of the fighters gasped.

“Who the—let go of me! Who the hell are you?”

“This your backup, Human?”

The Drake sneered, but he took a step back, searching around for his buddies. They all gazed up at Moore with that sudden reassessment of men wondering if they wanted to fight someone four feet taller than they were, counting their numbers.

“Excuse me, gentlemen. It seems too wet for a brawl on the streets. May I ask what started this?”

Lord Moore’s voice was pleasant. And because it was, instantly, both fighters took umbrage.

“None of your business! Hands off! Who are you to interfere?”

The Drake slashed at Moore’s hand as he let go. The Human man made a beckoning gesture.

“That’s right. You want some, you can get in line!”

The glance he gave Moore suggested that if the half-Giant did get in line, he’d quickly get out of it. But it sounded good, and their dander was up. Lord Moore raised his brows.

He could have said he was technically Junior Guardsman Raithland. Or claimed, rightly, that he was a [Lord]. Or a former adventurer.

Instead, the half-Giant smiled around at the crowd.

“A busybody. What’s this over? Something important?”

Neither man really wanted to say. They were eying each other, but clearly wondering if Moore was going to pick them up like children again, which would be embarrassing. They edged back.

“Just stay out of it…whoever you are!”

The Drake snapped. To his great surprise, Lord Moore nodded. He picked up his staff and took one step backwards to give them space.

“Very well. If all parties agree, then I will stand here as witness. The first man to not get up is defeated. No blades, no others in the ring, no magic. So, fight well.”

He struck the ground with his staff and left it standing there, then folded his arms in the crowd as every eye turned to the two brawlers. And they…hesitated. The Human raised a fist, looked around, and the Drake half-heartedly brought his fists up.

They suddenly grew conscious of the crowd of nearly a hundred people, swelling as more came to see what was going on. The two circled, and after a moment, Moore made an encouraging motion.

“Well? What’s the matter?”

One of them had just been about to go for a kick to the balls. Moore’s comment drained the momentum out of the two fighters, and one of them glared at him.

“We’re all waiting.”

The half-Giant smiled at him, and the Drake snapped back.

“You interrupted us! How the hell are we supposed to fight with—?”

He lamely gestured around at the onlookers, who were murmuring, eying his form, even placing a few tentative bets—the things crowds did. Only, without his blood running hot, the Drake was suddenly awkward. Self-conscious.

Like that dream many people had about showing up naked to a party. Neither man was a [Fistfighter] or used to this much attention. The Human clearly felt different and spat on the ground.

“I’m not getting in trouble with the Watch in front of everyone. I’ll settle this with you later. You’d best not see me on the streets!”

He jabbed a finger at the Drake, and some of the man’s buddies jeered. It was a good way to salvage the situation. Moore didn’t let them get away with it. He loomed over the two fighters as they tried to retreat from the ring.

“No fight in the two of you? Truly? And here I thought it was important. For if it was, you two would fight even in the center of a wake. It surely had to have been. Important enough to endanger bystanders and children and interfere with everyone’s day. Come now, tell us. What was so pressing?”

His smile invited the two to tell the class what was wrong. Then the Drake and Human were glancing at each other, and cheeks reddened.

“I think one of them walked into the other. Then one called the other a name.”

An annoyed [Shopkeeper] volunteered. Someone else in the crowd corroborated this, and a few jeers rose. The two fighters began to protest as Lord Moore folded his arms.

“Ah, a terrible offense. There is no use talking it out. Right, back at it, you two.”

That was enough. As faint laughter arose, the Drake strode back to his buddies, shoving at them as some of them laughed at him as well. The Human man tried to slink back into the crowd. Moore smiled as someone blew a whistle.

“Alright, break it up!”

A [Guard] was coming to break the brawl up—to the officer’s surprise, the crowd was already dispersing. He stared around, then at Moore as if the half-Giant was the culprit.

“What’s all this then? You, sir, what are you doing?”

Some things never changed. Lord Moore turned with great patience to explain his part in this, but someone interrupted.

“I have eyes on it, yes, Guardsman. This half-Giant wasn’t part of the fight.”

One of his shadows detached themselves from an alleyway and strode over. The [Guardsman] turned, then saluted.

“Watch Captain! Um, I—right! Sorry, I didn’t realize you were here!”

The Watch Captain of 3rd District gave Moore a sideways glance as she nodded to him. There went the [Guard], and Lord Moore glanced around. He was about to keep walking when someone waved a claw at him.

“Excuse me, Mister half-Giant?”

A girl holding an Antinium doll, Human, was standing with her parents. She stared up at Moore and backed up when he knelt, but he smiled.

“Yes, young one?”

“I have a question! May I ask a question?”

“Of course.”

The girl’s parents watched as she piped up.

“Dad says you’re a half-Giant. But if you are, then isn’t that wrong? Everyone was saying the last half-Giant of Izril was dead. So what are you?”

His father opened his mouth, filled with chagrin, and Moore’s heart hurt as he listened to the girl’s plain question. He saw Beilmark’s ears perk up as he chose his words carefully.

“It’s true. The last half-Giant of Izril did die. Moore of Raithland. I am merely his uncle. I wasn’t on Izril when he fell. So yes, it was true at the time. Once more, I am the last half-Giant. Perhaps the last you will ever know on Izril’s shores.”

Everyone in earshot went silent. Lord Moore stood and looked around.

“I am Lord Mireden Raithland. I have made Liscor my home to honor my nephew’s sacrifice. If you see me, treat me as a neighbor and friend, please.”

He smiled. Then turned to the girl.

“Does that answer your question?”

She gave him a serious stare with faintly orange eyes.

“Yes, Mister half-Giant. Thank you. Um. Is it hard, being the last half-Giant? It seems really lonely.”

He blinked at her, then smiled ruefully.

“Perhaps it is. I wouldn’t know; we half-Giants have been the last for a long time. It’s not that scary. Being the last friend, the last member of a team, is far, far harder. So long as you have friends and family, being the ‘last’ anything isn’t hard, Miss. Do you have any more questions?”

She blinked up at him as her parents stirred, and he thought she saw some comprehension flicker in her tiny face. An inkling of mortality. She held her doll tighter, thinking, then pointed.

“…Is that a magic staff?”

He laughed and reached up to the emerald gem. To her delight and awe, he pulled a glowing flower with petals that shone like moonbeams out and handed it to her. Then he rose, nodded at her parents, and continued on his way.

After a moment, the Watch Captain followed.



——



Beilmark was not Zevara, a fact she was keenly grateful for. She had a different approach than the smoke-spitting Watch Captain that was simultaneously more subtle and, sometimes, more direct than the Drake.

Zevara probably would have been here in the rain, following the half-Giant around, but every person who saw her wanted to talk about the Hissl-Moass incident, so she was no good undercover. She’d tried a huge trench coat and hat, but that was so silly everyone in the 3rd District Watchhouse had laughed their tails off when they heard about that.

The Gnoll caught up to the mystery half-Giant after two streets. He did slow when he saw her, and she raised a paw.

“Excuse me, Lord Raithland. Do you have time for a friendly word? You are not under arrest, yes?”

“I had no fear of that, Watch Captain. You have the better of me; I confess, I thought you were Captain Zevara.”

“Ah, she is busy looking into someone stealing water or something silly of that kind. Now she is a detective, everyone has problems for her to solve. She’s found four lost cats already. I am Watch Captain Beilmark. 3rd District. May I ask what you were doing back there?”

“Merely interfering in a silly fight. I am sure your Watch would have handled the matter, but I interfered, as anyone might.”

She peered up at him. He wore a mysterious smile, and she had no read on him. The Gnoll sniffed, trying to memorize his scent.

“Hrr. Anyone of your size, perhaps. Did you mean what you said, that you intend to live here?”

He continued walking, a touch slower, still spinning his staff.

“Of course.”

Beilmark eyed the whirling haft of wood. It wasn’t too close to her, but she felt like ducking.

“I may ask you to stop swinging that staff around, Lord Mireden. It would be a tragedy if it hit someone, no? Where does one learn tricks like that?”

Obligingly, he stopped spinning his staff. But rather contrarily, the half-Giant seemed to place it in the air, where it floated after him, slowly rotating around his body. He winked at her as even more heads turned.

“I picked the trick up on Chandrar when I lived half a year in the company of the Nomads of the Sky.”

“Oh, the ones who follow the King of Destruction?”

There were very few groups of half-Giants left. Moore nodded.

“Yes…though not when they were at war. Not all of them fight, you see. It was one of the few things I picked up of value there. The rest?”

He flicked a hand, shaking his head and smoothing his beard ruefully.

“It’s a silly fancy that comes across species who grow up far from ‘home’, Watch Captain. I was trying to find my people, much like that girl asked me about. Playing drums on the sand, mimicking the customs I thought would make me more of a half-Giant…”

He laughed and shook his head.

“Chandrarian [Nomads] are so far from how I was raised and lived. I wonder if you can relate?”

Despite herself, she grinned. The Watch Captain shrugged.

“You speak in a way most City Gnolls would understand, yes? Some of us aspire to be ‘real’ Gnolls, whatever that is, and copy our kin in the tribes. From how Plains Gnolls talk to how they act, as if that makes them more Gnollish. Myself, I have been a child of Liscor since before the Silverfangs came, so it is opposite for me, in a way. All their customs and habits seemed foreign to me. I’ve never longed to be on the plains. Too many bugs in the fur, I imagine.”

The half-Giant nodded with that twinkle in his eyes. He gestured at the quarterstaff.

“Well, if that concludes your investigation, you may write down that I am quite good with a quarterstaff, Watch Captain Beilmark. As a younger man, I used my fists until I realized I kept getting hurt…a quarterstaff is far more useful, especially as this is a magical staff as well. Everyone has heard the tale of the [Farmer] who beat a [Swordmaster] with a staff.”

Beilmark nodded. Moore tapped his staff and winked at her.

“I rather fancy I have better odds than most [Farmers], don’t you?”

The Gnoll woman grinned. And she privately resolved to never get into a fight with this half-Giant and make a note for the Watch to be highly careful of this Mireden Raithland. She thanked him for his time.

“And may I ask one last question, Lord Mireden? I noticed you had put your name in the elections for City Council in your area. Hrr. There are fifty candidates, and I doubt many would know you by name. By height, yes…if you fail to win your election, what will you do? Are you an adventurer? Or are you going to be a—a [Lord]? Forgive me, I do not know how that class lives.”

The half-Giant nodded at her as they came back to Shivertail Plaza. He halted in line and smiled at her.

“Fear not, Watch Captain. I have utter faith I will win. But regardless, even if I should fail, I intend to do a bit of business in Liscor.”

“Enchanting? Magical services?”

He shook his head, still with that twinkle in his eye that was slightly annoying.

“No. Sewer cleaning. I am a [Green Mage]. Artisanal work as well. Not that I’m a fine crafter. I practice some alchemy as well—I do invite you to visit the first shop I open.”

With that, he ducked back into the door and vanished. Beilmark folded her arms and sniffed as some of the other [Guards] who had been surveilling him came over. She growled at one of them.

“Alright, put him on the list of Crazy Inn People. At the top of the list, yes? Right next to the Archmage. He makes my fur stand on end. I hope he’s on our side.”

“Are you gonna vote for him, Watch Captain? You moved to his district, didn’t you?”

Beilmark snorted at one of the younger [Guards].

“I don’t even know what he’s offering Liscor. Shut up about politics. Back to work!”



——



Something to offer Liscor. Yes, that was the problem. He had to show them his value more than just being a helpful [Mage] who had blocked spells.

Gold was no good. No one respected someone just handing out gold. They might need someone like that, the quintessential [Lord] who could buy influence, but who really believed in someone like that?

…Well, enough idiots, maybe. But Lord Moore wanted genuine appreciation. He wasn’t worried. He had a plan, and he’d just confirmed it would work.

What he needed was help, though. He doubted he’d find it in Liscor; the city wasn’t quite right. Too much business flowing in, ironically. So the half-Giant went to the only other location he thought worked on multiple levels.

If Moore intended Liscor to be under his aegis, then Invrisil had been claimed by Magnolia Reinhart and her kin. Celum was, likewise, under the purview of Xitegen—he could almost see the Thigh Lord’s influence around it. Moore didn’t need to butt heads with Lord Xitegen yet. The same with Riverfarm. That [Emperor] was so…prickly in Lord Moore’s experience. And he’d broken up with Durene six years early. Definitely not.

So he went to the only other place that made sense.

Esthelm.

Not that the city was poor, mind you. Just not as prosperous as Liscor. Moore eyed the walls that had been reconstructed by the Antinium; they were actually more impressive than Liscor’s.

The waterproof solid walls of Liscor were impressive on an engineering level, but they didn’t have spikes. Nor cauldrons you could fill with boiling oil or three glittering enchantments that glowed at all hours.

More Wistram magic. Esthelm’s Watch appeared sharp too. Moore noted the clay streets had been paved over with good, quarried stone in most places, and there were a lot of [Miners] going to work.

A good number of Drakes and Gnolls too; probably visiting to buy said gemstones or to try to order from the forges he could hear in the distance. Pelt was transforming Esthelm into a real city of industry. A good ally to have!

However, the Dwarf couldn’t revitalize everything, and the city’s association with Liscor had actually led to downsides. Just as Moore predicted as he walked down Gemcutter Avenue, aptly named for its stores, he noted more than one shuttered business or empty storefront.

He nodded to himself, then stopped someone on the street.

“Excuse me, do you know who the best charm-expert in the city would be?”

The surprised woman hesitated, but then pointed.

“That’d be Miss Ediya. Bezoar Street. Right at the statue of the [Florist] in the main square. Although, uh—if you came for charms, you might as well try Pallass.”

She gave him a guilty look as she glanced around, aware she was throwing the local artisans under the wagon. The half-Giant just nodded.

“Miss Ediya will do excellently. Thank you, Miss.”

He strode off. The [Florist]’s statue?

Ah. Of course.



——



The problem with the magic door in Liscor was that it allowed other cities to send goods through the door or buyers enter Invrisil and Esthelm. The effect on prices had already been felt by Liscorians, but the reverse was also true.

Buying ore in Esthelm cheap was an excellent thing for [Smiths]! Riverfarm’s huge agricultural industry suppressed food prices, and there was a valuable network of trade goods enabled by the magical door and Liska. No wonder she was levelling.

However, lowering the price of food meant local [Farmers] earned a lot less. In the same way, other cities could ruin local industries. To wit: Pallass.

The City of Inventions had too much magical expertise. Too many goods flowed into it; Salazsar’s gemstone mines could fill most of Izril’s southern cities with gems, and many [Merchants] brought such gems north to sell at high fees.

What happened when that many gems and higher-level classes in Pallass met Esthelm, who had their own [Runecrafters], [Gemcutters], [Jewelers], and so on?

Shuttered businesses or prosperous owners now struggling to make a decent wage. In fact, when Lord Moore checked Miss Ediya’s shop, she wasn’t even in. A rather dispirited half-Elf sitting in a rocking chair outside his home told the half-Giant she might not be in today.

“Sorry, Mister. There’s little point to us opening our stores. Not this week.”

“Why this week? I’m Lord Mireden. And you are?”

The half-Elf shook Moore’s hand, then gestured at his store.

“Malack’s Mystiques. That’s me, Malack. Ediya used to sell her runes, and I’m a [Gemcutter]. I used to have an [Enchanter] charm everything up, and we’d compete for business. She does cooling charms for the summer and warming for the winter; mine are good for keeping mice out of flour, teeth from rotting, that sort of thing. Just hang them up over your bed or wherever. They work.”

“I take it that’s not the case any longer?”

The half-Elf sighed.

“Oh, no. They still work fine. But my [Enchanter]’s moved to Liscor. And there are so many gems from Salazsar, pre-cut, that I don’t have much work. I’d say there is still a need for our charms, even if we can’t match a Walled City or Invrisil, but…we were doing good business on Lundas. Then the [Witches] put on a festival.”

He pulled a face, and the half-Giant nodded.

“Ah. They sell charms?”

Malack’s face soured with envy as much as despair.

“The kind of stuff none of us can make! Crow’s teeth—I didn’t even know they had teeth—weird wickerworks to catch bad dreams. I went there, and you know what the first thing I saw was? A charm made out of a bunch of teeth—real teeth. Tree rot, that turned my stomach. I was telling the [Witch] no one would buy it when she told me it unrots your teeth. Each tooth takes on the rot somehow. So it wears out, but if you have a mouth of cavities…”

Moore saw the problem.

“Hard to compete?”

Malack jerked a thumb over his shoulder.

“I bought all she had. Sold them all at twice the cost. Unfortunately, my customers got wise to that, and they just go to Riverfarm. We won’t see work for the week, Ediya and I. Makes me want to move back home.”

“You’re from Terandria? Not many half-Elves live in Izril.”

The [Gemcutter] shrugged.

“It’s fine enough. Better than home. I lived in Pheislant. One day, I got a bit too tired of all the little comments. Fathers thinking I was charming daughters. Mothers asking about my charms to give them long life, better looks. [Mages] asking me where all my half-Elven secret spells of the ancients were. I’m seventy. I feel seventy.”

He looked thirty, though time had weathered him a bit up. Moore chuckled.

“And the Drakes and Gnolls and Izrilian Humans are that much better?”

The half-Elf winked at him.

“Why, sure. I’m better than those Drakes and Gnolls with the Izrilian Humans, and better than those Humans and Gnolls with the Drakes. The Gnolls think I’m better than the Drakes and Humans, and I can’t be worse than Antinium! Myself, I like the Antinium the most. They can’t even tell I’m a half-Elf most of the time.”

They had a good laugh about that. Malack seemed quite happy to chat about Esthelm—he’d fled the Goblin Lord then came back to rebuild. He was all too happy to credit Pelt with the improvement in the city’s fortunes.

“The door ruining our business is bad luck. But I won’t say bad things about that [Innkeeper] for all she’s unpopular in other cities. Nor will Ediya. She stayed and survived the Goblin Lord’s attack. Hid out in her cellar with three families. Brave as can be. She helped us rebuild our walls, you know.”

“Hmm. I do have a proposal for Miss Ediya. I don’t need Pallass-made gems or charms, Malack. Can you help me find her? That might mean some work for you as well.”

The half-Elf raised his brows. He noted Lord Moore’s clothing, which showed no signs of the rain he’d been in; the water just slid off the enchanted cloth. The half-Elf got out of his rocking chair.

“I can do that. If she’s not out shopping, like as not she’ll be in the main square with the statue. We’ve been having more and more guests to the city defacing it.”

They headed down the street and came to the square in no time at all. When he saw the image of the [Florist] and the thirteen Goblins standing around her with weapons in hand, Lord Moore nodded. Then he focused on the splotches on the stone.

It seemed someone had decided to throw mud, or possibly feces, at the statue. Probably mud; you had to be prepared to throw poop. There was a little fountain behind the statue, and the half-Giant and half-Elf saw an old woman with brown skin tossing water up on the statue.

It wasn’t the most effective method, but she seemed hardly able to climb up and just scrub it herself. The half-Giant halted with approval on his face, if not for the besmirched statue, then the actions of the old woman.

What drew his attention was actually the second statue in the square. Because he’d rather forgotten it existed.

In ten year’s time, it was long-since destroyed, an act of vandalism by unnamed culprits, probably Vampires. But even in this world, the second statue facing the opposite direction just seemed…well, less important. Perhaps, and this was unfair but accurate, perhaps it was just that Ylawes Byres was less interesting.

The [Knight] had one of those quintessential heroic poses as he stood with shield in hand, facing towards the southern gates, and the statue to the Captain of the Silver Swords commemorated his team’s efforts in saving the city. It was a good likeness of him, bold chin and jaw, good-looking armor.

But it just wasn’t the same as that [Florist] pointing ahead, a bouquet of flowers in hand, flanked by Goblins. Both were of Esthelm’s heroes, but the [Knight] was expected, praiseworthy, even mundane. The Goblins and the [Florist] were the story that made you ask questions.

There was nothing in the Ylawes statue that Lord Moore needed, but he did nod to it once. It looked good enough; no one was throwing poo at this statue as of yet. Certainly, Malack just strode past it as he cupped his hands to his mouth, loath to get mud on his shoes from the street.

“Ediya! I have a customer for you!”

Malack called out, shaking his head as he eyed the statues. The grouchy woman shouted back.

“It’ll wait, Malack! Send them to Riverfarm or Pallass! This is the third time this week! The Watch should post a guard out!”

Trying to clean a statue commemorating Goblins would have been unthinkable in another city. But Esthelm? Moore closed his eyes a moment as he approached and nodded.

Yes, here too. He saw several passersby eying Ediya and the statue. Visitors were askance, but citizens of Esthelm were not. Some looked like they might have actually come over to help if they weren’t so busy.

The cursing woman was telling Malack to bring her a long broom when Lord Moore strode over. He raised his staff, and she pointed a warning finger at him.

“Don’t touch the statue with that. If you damage it—”

“[Mass Cleanse].”

The mud and grime vanished. So did the water and all detritus on the street in a thirty-foot radius. The fountain was left untouched, though the waters now had a clear sheen to them.

Malack leapt back, and Ediya halted, open-mouthed, as the statue gleamed in the sun. The half-Giant calmly lowered his staff and bowed to her.

“I apologize for wasting your effort, Miss Ediya. May I introduce myself? I am Lord Mireden Raithland, and I hoped I could speak to you and Malack about a business proposal.”

She was sharp and spirited. Only a moment passed before she began wading out of the fountain.

“Well, if it’s something you can’t enchant yourself, I doubt I can help. But I’ll hear you out for saving my back the effort and giving the [Florist] her due. You know her, do you? Or are you new to the city? Not many look at her without questions.”

Lord Moore glanced at the Goblins.

“I come from The Wandering Inn.”

“Ah.”

They asked no more questions after that. Well, about the statue. Ediya leapt to the ground, and Moore conjured some warm air, though the sunlight was fair enough. She raised her brows at him.

“How could we help you, Lord Mireden? You have more magic in that staff than I have in my entire body. Every [Crafter] on Bezoar Street combined couldn’t match your mana pool, I’ll wager.”

He smiled at her.

“I hope to meet them all. And if you will help me, I intend to put a proposal before all of you for new work. It will pay well. I can offer you an hour’s worth of coin to follow me and hear me out.”

Her brows rose. Ediya glanced at Malack, then lifted a finger.

“I don’t take coin to hear a man out. It might take a second to find them all, but Gemcutter Avenue has more of us. This had better not be like the Golden Triangle.”

“Not at all. It’s a quick walk to Liscor, a demonstration, and then back to Esthelm. I can cover the door fees.”

She folded her arms, then shrugged and nodded.

“Malack, you take Gemcutter’s, I’ll take Lord Mireden to Bezoar. We’ll be back in twenty minutes by the statue. I’ve been meaning to visit Liscor anyways. Ever since that City Runner, what was his name? Fals. Ever since he came by, my fortunes have gone up and down.”

The [Runecrafter] eyed him, not quite concealing the faint hope that he had brought a shift for the better. Lord Mireden just gazed at the statue.

“The fortune was here all along, Miss Ediya. I just hope to show it to you.”

After a second, she snorted.

“You had better not be a [Charlatan]. Or I will carve a [Rune of Itchy Feet] into your boots.”

He laughed at that.



——



When Liska saw Lord Moore returning for a third time in the same hour, with thirty artisans from Esthelm in tow, she had to protest.

“Oh come on. I know you’re a guest, but there’s limits to the door’s reserves! We’re at 36% today already! Some idiots just had to bring in a bunch of goods from Invrisil. Idiot [Merchant] complained when I charged him for it too. We’re not made of mana here! Okay, we have lots, but…”

Lord Moore turned and tapped the [Door of Portals] with a finger. Mana didn’t work like lightning; it didn’t arc from his fingers to the door. Rather, a nimbus of magic swirled around the door, almost like water moving in three-dimensional space.

A far more complex technique than any of the other [Mages] had ever seen; a regular artifact might just draw the mana from an unguarded source, like a gravitational pull of airborne particles. But the half-Giant seemed to create a cloud that infused the very air with force, then…melded into the floorboards, the wall, and the doorframe?

Some of the crafters following him from Esthelm gasped at the display of magical power. Miss Ediya just nodded to herself.

Liska halted mid-rant, mouth open. She croaked.

“Okay, we’re at 120%. I thought you couldn’t recharge…er, where do you want to go? Priority location change!”

“Liscor, please, Liska. Thank you.”

The half-Giant moved through the door and spoke in a carrying voice as the [Crafters] filed through behind him.

“My hope is that you’ll all sell the new type of charm I intend to teach you. There are those in Liscor who could do the same, and I hope, in time, they do want to learn. But I would prefer you to have the first chance.”

Malack glanced at some of the other men and women, mostly in their advanced years, who were following him. Ediya spoke in a carrying voice.

“For a cut of our profits? If it sells well, you can be sure we’ll do it, but how much of a cut will determine whether or not we’re working ourselves for nothing, Lord Mireden.”

He lifted a hand.

“A small cut, perhaps, for the teaching. But I would rather take my investment in the form of charms. I may need…quite a lot. I intend to be your best customer.”

That provoked skepticism, as well it might. Malack frowned as he shivered under the rain. Then he glanced up as a barrier spell bloomed overhead like a huge flower, shielding them. He nudged Ediya silently and then spoke.

“I don’t need to tell you this, but most charms conflict like artifacts, Lord Mireden. They don’t explode—mostly—but if you put too many together, they’d just…tangle. Nor are ours the sort that can last more than a few months. Ediya could do half a year, maybe? No more.”

They were all peering at him. Ediya nodded.

“I could do years if I worked my best, but charms are a trinket at best. Even a Gold-rank adventurer would only carry two if they had the magical capacity.”

“Not these ones.”

Lord Moore was remembering an archway hung with hundreds, thousands of bells. He lifted his hand, and the vision was replaced by grey skies. He turned to the others.

“These ones only grow in conjunction with each other. And they can last forever, even if made by a Level 10 [Artisan]. The making might take six times, ten times as long as a regular charm. But the cost is low in raw material, usually. It’s time and other factors that determine the difficulty and complexity.”

“You’re selling us an idea made out of Dreamleaf smoke, Lord Mireden. No such charm exists…that I know of. Are you from Wistram’s Terras faction?”

Ediya shot back, and everyone gazed at him hopefully. Once more, Lord Moore grinned.

“No. I’m from The Wandering Inn.”

A few of the crafters trailing behind glanced at each other, then picked up the pace. And some of Liscor’s citizens who had that nose for these moments, like Miss Ambiese who had just come out of The Wandering Inn, followed.



——



He took them to the only place that mattered. He could have never left Esthelm, of course, but this was his selfishness.

Lord Moore halted at his destination. The north gate of Liscor was closed, obviously. It was reinforced by a glowing barrier spell, and the door had been caulked up with mud and braced—beyond it lay the floodwaters of the filled plains, so of course it was inspected daily and people were kept well clear of it.

However, he didn’t need to get close. The small crowd of people gazed at the place he had brought them. The artisans were in fact a group within a group, for again, he had summoned a crowd just by his nature and walk.

Well, that and the floating umbrella spell that sheltered everyone from the rain. It followed the group as they moved, and Liscorians, especially those with magical backgrounds, were drawn to it.

They were used to parasols, and yes, some umbrellas, but this one looked…different. And movable magical barriers? The Archmage of Izril and her apprentice didn’t do that; even when Valeterisa shielded Relc from the rains, it was static barriers.

Yet the place that the half-Giant had taken them to hardly seemed impressive. The object by the gates was mundane, even. Nonmagical.

It was an altar on the side of the street, on the sidewalk in a gap between buildings. A simple structure, the kind that you found in the wilds, by a crossroads, or in places like this.

They were spontaneous; someone had nailed together a simple frame, and Lord Moore was surprised by how much they resembled the altars he knew.

But he supposed it was a kind of universal thing. Beneath the rain pattering off the sides of the slate roof shingles, he saw fresh flowers, some old. A colorful stone, a letter stamped and sealed. No coins; someone would just take them out when no one was watching.

Beneath the altar had been more flowers. When he’d first appeared here, he’d seen a profusion, battered by the rain, scattering petals onto the ground and being swept into the sewers. That there were still fresh tokens…

He stood there for a while until an older man, shivering despite the umbrella spell, spoke in a querulous voice.

“Ah, I, ah, I don’t understand why we’re here, Lord Raithland.”

Moore turned his head, the trance broken. He swung around and saw the familiar outline of Watch Captain Beilmark among the watchers. People staring up at him.

Now, the half-Giant stopped whispering. He spoke at his normal volume, and a street away, heads turned. His voice was no great shout, no roar for attention. He spoke, and they listened, like the very earth had once heeded the voice of Giants.

“This is where my nephew, Moore of the Halfseekers of Izril, died. Spellslinger Ulinde—this is the last place the Gold-rank team fought. They died to stop a Hag Queen from breaching the gates, and countless Draugr.”

His words provoked a silence from Esthelm’s people, who might not have known what this place meant. A few of them made arcane gestures; Ediya touched her lips, then drew a four-pointed symbol on her heart. The half-Giant looked around, then back at the gates.

I do not know what he faced. But he stopped whatever it was. He felt his skin chilling, though water didn’t touch it. His grip tightened on his staff.

“Do you feel it?”

Then he swung around to Malack and Ediya, and the crafters regarded each other. A few cast spells or muttered Skills. Then they shook their heads.

“What are we supposed to feel, Lord Mireden…?”

The half-Giant ignored Malack’s query. He spun, and then, faster now, he strode down the street. Faster—they parted before him, and his staff struck the ground.

Thum.

Below him, Antinium in their Hive glanced up, curious about the strange sound coming from above. Their antennae waved as they heard it again.

Thum.

Could she hear it in her prison? The Mother? It was like the sound of a heart beating through Liscor.

When the half-Giant halted again, he seemed even taller. A group of schoolchildren peeked through the windows of their classrooms. [Builders] repairing an apartment in the northern section of the city turned, hammers in hand, nails clenched between their teeth.

Another altar, two hundred paces down the street. This one—different. It was larger, and he didn’t begrudge her that. There were flowers, yes, but not as many.

Instead, there were…objects laid against the altar in the rain. Placed beneath it, like offerings to some strange god of battles. And Mireden knew the divine.

Tekshia Shivertail’s altar had spears laid before it. Practice spears, those hand-carved out of wood. Weapons used to kill monsters—a [Soldier]’s weapon of war. Senior Guardsman Relc had left the first one for Liscor’s [Spearmistress], and they were still here.

Beside this altar was a second one—and it had no weapons in the smaller shrine. Just…hats.

Worn hats, placed here before they were discarded. Some had holes in them or were frayed to the point where the cloth was almost transparent. That was how you know they’d been loved and served their purpose. Hats for gentlemen; spears for the Guildmistress of Liscor.

Moore spoke.

“Look. Here is where Tekshia Shivertail died. She and five Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings halted the Draugr who broke through the gates. Right here.”

If not exactly this street, then this place was where it had happened, and that was what mattered. This marker. This moment.

The half-Giant took a step into the center of the street, where the cobblestones were newly patched, but he could still see cracks around the place they had been repaired. He had noticed people walking around this spot.

Lord Mireden bent to one knee and touched the spot.

“This is where a Gold-rank adventurer died.”

His eyes stung. And he had not known her that well. But he remembered the grumpy old Drake who knew their job. When his eyes rose, they glowed. He planted the staff down, hard, and the streets shivered.

“A hundred thousand Draugr crashed down on Liscor, and they were halted. Outside these gates, Face-Eater Moths died. If I walked from here to the Bloodfields, I could show you that place where dozens of Silver-rank adventurers fell fighting the blight from Rhir. Then they downed an Adult Creler. Hell’s Wardens were made in blood there. And there—”

He pointed eastwards.

“Those gates are where Skinner once broke through. Where he was stopped by the Black Tide. He died on the Floodplains of Liscor, where the Goblin Lord Reiss met his end. All of this, and more, I know. You know. Do you sense it?”

Lord Moore turned to the man who had asked, and the [Enchanter] shook his head.

“I can’t detect anything. Lord Mireden—”

The half-Giant’s voice rose to a shout now.

“How can you not feel it?”

The old [Enchanter] flinched. Lord Moore swept his gaze around, seeking understanding in anyone’s faces. He felt it. It was the chill on his skin, the stinging in his eyes. The pain of his heart. The tingling of fate as it touched his shoulder and pointed.

Miss Ediya spoke.

“I feel it. But that isn’t magic, Lord Mireden.”

There were goosebumps on her arms. She gazed at the altars like she had the [Florist]’s statue. She understood part of it. The half-Giant spread his arms.

“Did I say I was taking you to find mere magic? You feel it. All of you do. You just think that is all there is to it. This spot means something.”

He pointed down at the ground. Who would dare deny it? The half-Giant whispered.

“If I dared to tear down this altar, I would be fought. It would be rebuilt. If I spat on this ground, of all the many streets in Liscor, someone would speak out. Why? If it is nothing but bare earth and stone, why is that true?”

No one replied. So, the half-Giant walked over and gently lifted a spear from the altar. It was almost a profane act, but he held it so gently and turned to them.

“Is this an ordinary spear? No. If I were to place a spear here and ask for courage before a battle I knew I might never win—is it the same spear I could buy in any shop? No. Is that statue in Esthelm’s heart made of mere stone and history?”

“No.”

The [Runecrafter] wasn’t the only person to say it. Malack was gazing down at the flagstones.

“I’d rather set fire to my shop than pry up a cobblestone or steal these spears to carve up and sell as trinkets, Lord Mireden.”

“I would too.”

The half-Giant gently put the spear back where it belonged. Then he produced something from his pockets. He hung it in the air as they all looked at it.

It was made by his own hands, but he was no great crafter. He had just enough talent with magic and his fingers to take a piece of wood he had carved from a tree in the [Garden of Sanctuary] and a piece of metal he’d shaped into a point.

“This sliver of wood I took from the oldest tree I could find in the [Garden of Sanctuary] where her statue rests. I burnt the wood with the flame of glory in the Order of Solstice’s keep. The metal I took from a spear that had been used until it broke. I would never dare to steal anything or profane her will. But I knew Tekshia Shivertail. And I hope that if she were here, she would grant anyone worthy the thing she had too much of.”

He clapped his hands together in an act none of them, save for a watching Antinium Worker, knew.

Prayer.

Lord Mireden closed his eyes and thought of Tekshia. The wind blew faintly on his skin as it chilled, and he saw the Drake raising her spear.

“A bit of courage.”

When he opened his eyes, he could see it. Faintly, ever-so-faintly, for he was no [Priest], nor had he been a true believer of the Prophet Pawn. But sometimes, in this world, you could see it with your own eyes.

Malack gasped as he pointed, and they saw the faintest glow touching the edge of the little spear-charm. Like light glancing off the edge of it, but the skies were rainy and dark. The half-Giant reached up, but he didn’t take the charm.

“It should hang here long. And there are more ways to respectfully harness the meaning here.”

“What is…what is this called?”

Ediya spoke, dry-mouthed, and the half-Giant turned to her.

“It is like faith, but the [Witches] know it too. I simply call it meaning. Sites of power. Liscor has so many. But [Witches] cannot harness this; it is not their city.”

“Nor is it ours.”

The [Runecrafter] pointed out, and the [Lord] smiled.

“Yours and Liscor are connected. But more importantly—you are not [Witches]. Their craft does have rules, Miss Ediya. And if all that failed, you have at least one place in your city.”

The statue was overflowing with the very same meaning. The [Runecrafter]’s eyes widened, and she nodded. Lord Moore reached out and then spoke.

“…In time it might become too easy to make them. Yet I would love a city filled with such charms as the world has never seen. The belief in them will make them stronger. But the greatest ones will always be made by those who know the reason why they matter. They will only shine in the hands of those who take the time to listen. If I teach you, that is what I desire. One for every ten you make.”

They had such small value at first, until you added them up and they became an avalanche that could sweep aside mountains. Like the smallfolk.

The half-Giant swept his cloak around him as he began to walk back. To Esthelm, to show them how it was done in their city where it would be easiest.

He knew they were listening. Cityfolk and the Watch, murmuring. Disbelieving or, perhaps, believing and wanting to learn what he knew.

Let them try. There were rules they didn’t understand. Faith was one of them. The Lord of Liscor advanced. And the first thing he brought to Liscor, how they knew him? He came as a [Shopkeeper] with something new to sell. Lord Raithland was well aware of how Liscor stole everything new.

Try to steal this.

He sat at a silly little stall later that day, as Miss Ediya and the other crafters of Esthelm rushed to work, and sold exactly three charms.

The first one was to a little Gnoll girl who spent all her allowance on a tiny spear. Her mother paid for it as Tirra listened on how she should use it and care for it.

The next was a Human man, Nule, who bought a blooming flower that a certain half-Giant had always loved with orange flowers and a yellow heart, carved and painted and hanging from a chain of soft ashwood.

The last was a Drake, Miss Ambiese, who stared for a long time at the little frying pan made of cast iron. She took it in trembling claws.

“Does it bring good luck or bad? Sorry. I know most charms don’t work like that. But this?”

She peered at him, and the half-Giant smiled as a line a hundred people long stared at him and he closed his shop. He stood like the mountains.

“Yes,” he told her. Then his eyes twinkled, and the city whispered his name. He began walking again, towards a vision of the future only he knew, taking them on a path away from the worst.

Once more on a strange and wonderful journey.





Author’s Note:

I swear this was under 10,000 words when I wrote it on stream. Edits added a tiny bit more. And this Author’s Note!

This is an example of a short chapter I’d like to be able to write at will. Simple premise, delivers a few other elements of foreshadowing but gets the job done.

It’s hard.

Mostly it’s hard because there’s so much going on I always interweave things and I just like talking about stuff. My brain can get side-tracked and then we’re discussing the Nomads of the Sky or I think I need a perspective about, I dunno, how Goblins are treated in Esthelm and suddenly it’s 20,000 words and I’m adding up levels for Asgra.

But this worked. And it is Lord Moore’s first chapter, and he’s not the same, is he? In the [Palace of Fates] outlines, I didn’t know who was coming back. Kevin, I knew. But in the course of the story, characters change. Much like how Numbtongue was supposed to be Pyrite…it would have changed the story.

Mireden Raithland fits. I think he does, and the original story of The Wandering Inn with the Mother of Graves is his world, in a way. Strange how things turn out. Just like how Ryoka Griffin was a story idea I had before The Wandering Inn.

Have I mentioned that? Ryoka Griffin predates Erin Solstice. She was in a never-written story. A Courier in a strange crossroads-world where she met a sleepy Dragon, two odd [Guards], and a surly Drake Prince (Ilvriss, sort of; it’s not one-to-one in every case) and a reclusive [Necromancer].

I never wrote a word of it. Just thought it up. And when the story was written, it turned out the inn was what mattered most. And there needed to be an [Innkeeper]…

You take stories and retell them or tell them in ways where they fit. I’ll write it all up sometime, but for now, Lord Moore has arrived. And we are still going—I’m on Pt. 9 so far, and I think I’ll be writing until I collapse for my weekly break. I’ve been writing hard and higher-quality after Iceland and sickness, and I hope you agree. But I always need more rest. Also time to play Silksong. Hope you’re enjoying it so far! Imagine how much I’d write if that game wasn’t there and I really wanted to play it.

(The same amount probably, I’m pushing it, but enjoy it.)

See you next chapter!

—pirateaba





Rabbiteater by Batcastle, commissioned by Owlchemist!





Beach Kevin, Kadane, and Pior by MichaelCannon!





Necromancer by Spooky!

Ko-Fi: https://ko-fi.com/spookyspookyowl

Bluesky: https://bsky.app/profile/spookyowl.bsky.social

Linktree: https://linktr.ee/spookyowlart





Moore’s Grave, Moore, and Orjin by Gridcube!





Moore Card by Stargazing Selphid!

Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/megawint/

Ko-Fi: https://ko-fi.com/megawint





Happy Moments and Shardele by Nanahou!

Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/wanderer.nanahou/

Ko-Fi: https://ko-fi.com/wanderer_nanahou/gallery





Pisces by katiemaeve!





Yazdil by Brack!

Ko-Fi: https://ko-fi.com/brack

Twitter: https://twitter.com/Brack_Giraffe





A Cursed Ship by Bread!





Ulvama Shrug, Fatty Duck, and Bartender Ulvama by Chalyon!

Ko-Fi: https://ko-fi.com/chalyon





1.00


The inn was dark and empty when the traveller arrived. It appeared suddenly, rising above the gentle hills and valleys of autumnal grass that blew in the wind, green, orange, and even purple in places.

The rolling plains were deceptive from afar. At first the many hills and divots seemed gentle, mere waves along a grassy plain. But the closer you got, the more you realized how easy it was to lose your bearings. In the center of a flat stretch of grass surrounded by hills on every side, you could look around and not know where you were. Even climbing a hill, all you might see was a mountain range.

Mountains so vast they disappeared into clouds on all sides grudgingly parted to form a pass connecting the north and south. Cliffs of stone slowly ridding themselves of vegetation and life, rising without end, promising to wall off the world except in this one spot where a gap had been chiseled. No other signs of civilization—at least not without the right vantage point.

That was why the inn was such a relief to the lost traveller. It had been placed on one of the highest hills for reasons of safety come spring, but also to act as a beacon. You might catch a glimpse of the roof, sagging in places but still mostly intact, or the chipped paint peeling along some shutters slightly moldy with disuse.

Yet, the inn stood. It had been there for decades, and whilst the other buildings had long since fallen to rubble or been burnt, the inn had been spared. When armies marched, it had been abandoned, then later reclaimed. When undead came flooding across the land, once more the inn had fallen empty. Only, this time, the windows stayed dark. Hopeful travellers stopped looking for anyone at the door, and visitors were rare anyways these days.

Abandoned, the inn waited. The Skills and care that had been put into the old wood, the magic etched into the bones of this building remained, defying a decade of disuse.

That was why the young woman was drawn to it. Not just because it was the first building she’d seen since coming to this world. Because of what it represented.

She stumbled through the thick grass, looking over her shoulder with every few panting breaths, but her desperate sprinting had long since turned to weary trudging despite the terror still coursing through her. The young woman smelled of brimstone and fire. She clutched at her right arm, and the t-shirt she wore was charred, as was her arm.

The girl climbed the hill, even though there was no light in the windows, not knowing what she might find.

The inn. In every world, the inn was a gathering place. Somewhere to meet people, to rest, a point along your travels. Somewhere an epic quest could begin, or where the weary traveller could sit around a warm fire.

A safe place. But this inn was dark, and the hope faded in the traveller’s chest as she reached the top of the hill.

“Hello? Is…is anyone…?”

She called out as she looked at the dark building. The door was closed, and nothing stirred at her voice. The young woman looked over her shoulder and hesitated.

Was it still out there? She doubted this place could keep her safe, but the strange land of hills and those impossibly huge mountains were overwhelming. Worse—it was growing dark, and it was going to be a darkness bereft of any artificial light.

The idea of staying outdoors with those red-eyed things, or the Dragon, made her shudder. So the young woman pushed the door open and called out again.

“Anyone here? Hello? I need—”

She knew the inn was empty the moment she opened the door. The smell was like that of a library long-abandoned, dusty and moldy—the first wave of stale air made the young woman cough and hack.

“No. Darn it. Of course it’s empty.”

All at once, the traveller sighed and leaned against the doorframe. Her strength ran out of her at the sight of the dark interior, the faint outlines of chairs and tables shrouded in cobwebs and dust proof that nothing had set foot in here for ages. She rested her forearm on the other arm and then winced as the burns screamed at her. Not to be left out, the cuts on her legs throbbed.

She tried not to cry. The young woman had known, known the inn was probably deserted when she saw it. She’d known, but hope—

“It’s not fair. Ever since I came to this world, everything’s been going wrong.”

Talking helped. Talking made her feel like she wasn’t crazy. The girl looked around.

The inn was cavernous, a building meant to hold entire crowds. She felt as small as an ant and unwelcome, like a thief stealing into someone else’s property at night. It was…very dark. Even the fading evening light wasn’t welcome here. A few steps in and the young woman heard her footfalls echoing, then the sound being swallowed. She hesitated. Should she enter?

Inside was darkness, and while it was dusty and she felt like an intruder—the young woman looked over her shoulder.

She was hurt. There were things outside. Monsters. She’d seen them—they’d nearly killed her!

Monsters and an unfamiliar world. A world that wasn’t hers. What she was sure was a Dragon, and she had no idea how she’d gotten here. She had no idea how to go back. She had no idea where here was.

“I just wanted to go to the bathroom.”

It was a plaintive whisper. The girl looked back once more and was almost about to back out of the strange inn when she heard the first sounds overhead.

She jumped, looked up, sprang out the doorway—and straight into the first wet, cold raindrops. The girl threw up her hands, gazed up, got a faceful of water, and ran inside as the skies opened up.

It began to rain, and the cool air grew colder still. The patter of raindrops overhead tapped down through the cracks in the roof, dripped down through floorboards, and landed in the dust where they vanished.

Then it became a roar of sound, and the shower turned the world outside into oblivion. The young woman’s eyes opened wide, and she backed away.

“No good. I guess—”

She found herself inside the inn and gazed about. She coughed again as the dust settled.

It was suddenly, unaccountably, peaceful. Despite the onslaught of rain, the young woman realized she might be safe.

The fire-breathing lizard-thing probably didn’t like rain, and it was so wet it’d douse even a forest fire. And the little green things with teeth would surely never find her in this! The young woman looked around, and as if a reward had appeared for her surviving all of this, she saw a chair.

Just a worn, overturned chair, clearly the sufferer of a thousand bottoms. But it invited her. Slowly, the young woman bent down, righted the chair, then began coughing and sneezing again as more dust overwhelmed her. But she brushed the chair off and sat down.

She closed her eyes for a moment. Just a moment. She’d rest here to begin with, get her bearings, and then figure out what had happened and why. The adrenaline slowly drained out of her, and Erin Solstice leaned back, trying to get comfortable.

She was almost ready to pass out, but a thought nagged at her. She cracked open one eye and looked around. She sighed, opened the other eye, and addressed the empty room.

“I’m really hungry.”

After a few minutes, Erin Solstice sat back up. The traveller, the first guest of this inn in ages, looked around and rubbed at her eyes.

No—not a traveller. She hadn’t been intending to travel anywhere tonight. The young woman frowned as she looked around. How had she gotten here?

Not just here, as in this abandoned inn, but here—here? She’d been going to the bathroom after finishing a game of chess in her room, in her home, and then…she must have taken a wrong step somewhere.

It must have been a really big wrong step, because instead of walking into the bathroom and seeing the comforting sight of porcelain, she’d suddenly found herself in a cave, nose-to-nose with a slumbering—

Dragon.

Erin leapt to her feet, heart pounding. It hadn’t been a dream! She looked around and felt at her right arm.

The burns flared up again, and Erin winced.

“It’s definitely not a dream. But how am I burnt? I could have sworn it missed!”

The jet of violet flame had shot wide of her by a mile, but it had still broiled her right side. Her jeans had kept her right leg from burning as badly as her unprotected arm, but it still hurt. Erin had no idea how she’d dodged, but that had saved her life. She’d run out of that…cave…and then?

Then she’d found herself running around the rolling valleys and foothills, calling for help and screaming as she realized she was not home. That had been a mistake, because the shouting had attracted attention. Attention, not help.

A bunch of little green things with red eyes and mouths full of teeth had come after her. They’d slashed at her legs as she ran—still screaming—and lost them.

“What were those things? G—they sort of looked like—Goblins? No way. This has to be a dream, but my arm hurts too bad for it to be a dream.”

That was her paradox. There was no way this was happening. Everything felt real, from the pain to the aching in her feet and tickling in her throat from the dust hanging in the air. However—this was surreal.

“What is this place? An inn? Really?”

Now that she looked around, it was clear that a lot of things were wrong. Erin had been in old-fashioned buildings, even to Renaissance faires, but this—this was the real thing.

There was no glass on the shuttered windows. She couldn’t see evidence of plastic or anything beyond simple wood or metal fixtures. There was no overhead lighting—and yet it was still very much the common room of an inn.

The tables and chairs might be covered with dust and spiderwebs—without any spiders—but there was a bar against the far wall and a staircase leading up. A single room seemed to lead off to another part of the inn, but most of the building was just this vast central space.

It should have been lively, Erin felt. She looked at the bar and imagined someone behind it, polishing a mug and serving a lovely cold drink of—

Erin’s longing sigh was accompanied by a third fit of coughing so long that she actually stumbled over to the door where it was pouring rain to gulp for air.

The dust! Her third assailant in this world was trying to kill her! Eyes streaming, Erin gulped for air. It was like she was breathing the stuff. She wiped at her face, coughed one more time, sneezed, then glared back at the inn.

“This place is going to kill me! I’m going to choke to death before the rain stops. Someone should clean it up!”

She looked around.

“…And I guess that someone is me.”

The young woman hesitated, but it was clear that if she tried to stay in this place for a few hours, let alone sleep the night, she’d probably attract every monster in ten miles by her coughing alone…if she didn’t suffocate in her sleep.

“Besides, this would make for a great place to explore from, and it’s got walls. I’m not going to find anything better, I bet. Then I…”

Her voice trailed off. Erin looked around and felt the unbelievable nature of what had happened building on her.

Do what? Where am I? What happened?

She fought off a wave of panic threatening to engulf her. No—she couldn’t panic. She couldn’t—Erin glanced at the pouring rain. It was muffling anything from outside, but she clamped her mouth shut.

She couldn’t scream. It was possible something could hear her through the downpour.

Don’t scream, don’t panic. Think. She wasn’t running for her life. She had to think. So the young woman forced herself to sit down at a table. She faced it, squared her shoulders, and adopted something like a reasonable posture.

“First things first. I should stay here. I don’t know what’s going on. I don’t know if this inn is safe—but it’s dusty. It’s got walls. So I explore. Also, I find something to clean all this stuff up with. I don’t want to use my shirt. Seems like a bad move, but I can’t breathe here without…okay. First steps. Pawn to E4. Pawn to C5. Sicilian Defense. Here we go.”

And with that, she got up and began to explore the inn. The first thing Erin actually did, before even venturing into other rooms, was check her pockets.

Most people went into their adventures well-equipped or with some nifty object that gave them an edge. Erin checked her pockets and found…nothing. If she’d known she was going to end up in this place, she would have brought along a backpack crammed full of essentials. And a gun. To fight off the little green men and the Dragon.

But she hadn’t planned this and, unfortunately, hadn’t even taken a phone. She’d been going to the bathroom!

Erin’s forehead wrinkled as she circumnavigated the common room first, checking the tables and chairs for something, anything. All she found was more dust.

It had been so fast. All she’d done was step into the bathroom and she’d been somewhere else. No flash of light, no wardrobe—did bathrooms count?

Apparently so, but it had been so sudden she felt like she’d been wronged, somehow. No mysterious voices, just bathroom teleportation. How?

Virtual reality? Very virtual if so, but it felt too real. No. Then—she was crazy?

Erin hoped not. However, the Goblins and Dragon made her feel there was only one reasonable, unreasonable explanation.

Magic. This was some kind of fantasy-land. Which meant she probably needed a sword or a wand. Or a magic sword.

But it became clear to her that the first thing that Erin needed was…a dustrag. And that became her first mission in this world. Get a dustrag and clean yourself a spot to sit.

It was proving to be a harder challenge than anticipated. There was nothing in the common room, even behind the bar, aside from a line of very dusty mugs. Erin hesitated before the door adjoining the bar and poked her head inside.

The young woman blinked at the semi-familiar sight. It was a kitchen alright; it had cutting boards built into the counters, a bunch of cupboards, and even a stove—a stone stove with a hatch to build a fire, nothing gas or electric.

The same for the ovens—she saw a giant, old-fashioned baker’s oven that led up to a presumed chimney. Here, at least, there were actual objects. A pot, cast-iron pan, and a few other utensils, including the world’s rustiest ladle, were all lying next to…

“Aha!”

Erin found a bucket. It was not a dustrag, but you needed water to clean things, right? And she happened to have a fresh supply coming down right outside.

She grabbed the bucket and towed it outside to fill up. After a second, she ran inside and grabbed some of the old mugs she’d found and set them outside to catch more water. She might need it.

Encouraged, Erin went back to her dustrag hunt. She began opening cupboards in the kitchen, but just found plates, old utensils, what might have been more dust or disintegrated food—

Nothing cloth at all.

“Drat.”

Erin gave up on her cupboard search and left the rest for later. Did you store dustrags in the kitchen? Maybe with towels, but she needed a pantry. She scoped out the rest of the ground floor but found nothing so handy.

“Darn.”

Well, that only left upstairs.

It was a very dark stairwell that looked down on Erin as she put her first foot on the stairs. The young woman looked up and gulped. Given the size of the ground floor, the staircase to the second floor was…ominous, to say the least. It looked like the bones of some gigantic monster in the darkness.

Cautiously, Erin ascended. It seemed as though every second stair creaked or groaned loudly as she placed her weight upon it, and the sounds echoed in the dark inn. To Erin, it felt like she was stepping on landmines—each time she heard a loud creak, her heart sped up and caught in her throat.

“Come on. Come on. You can do this.”

Erin whispered to herself, keeping her voice low so as not to—to wake up anything that might be up there. At that thought, her heart skipped another beat, and she paused halfway up the stairwell, shaking slightly.

“This is stupid. There’s nothing up there. Nothing!”

She paused.

“Okay, maybe there is something. I don’t know. There could be—more of those Goblins? But there’s probably not a Dragon, right? Right! Don’t be stupid.”

Hesitation. Another step.

“But a Dragon could be up there.”

Erin took a step back down. The stairs creaked. She scolded herself as her heart thumped painfully.

“Don’t be stupid. How would a Dragon fit up there? But Goblins?”

With a small laugh, Erin gazed upwards. The darkness on the second floor waited for her. Long shadows made the chipped and faded wood ominous. But it was just an illusion, a trick of the mind. She knew there was probably nothing up there. If there were, wouldn’t it have tried to eat her already?

But this was a different kind of fear that held her heart. It was a child’s fear, the fear of the dark and the unknown. So, Erin hesitated. But she knew she had to climb.

After a minute, she began talking to herself quietly.

“Dustrag. Dustrag, dustrag, dustrag…”

Erin muttered the word like a mantra. Somehow, the thought that she absolutely needed to find one gave her the strength to continue climbing the stairs.

One step. That was the hardest. Then two steps. Erin’s heart jumped as the stairs creaked underneath her, but nothing terrible happened. So she kept climbing.

However, if the sketchy staircase was the first hurdle of the mind, the empty corridor full of shadows and darkness was an entirely new level of intimidation.

It was so dark. Even when her eyes adjusted, Erin could barely see five feet in front of her. But having come this far, she was committed. So she kept going with her heart pounding out of her chest.

“Dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag…”

The first room she came to was very, very dark. Erin crept inside and froze as she heard a sound. Was that…rustling?

No. No, it was just her imagination. She could hear the storm passing outside with the rain making a racket on the roof overhead. The wind was blowing against the inn, that was all. It was probably just a leaf—

Rustle, rustle.

Definitely a sound. Erin’s heart played the drums in her chest. There was something in the room with her, and she really hoped for once that it was just a rat. Something—it sounded almost leathery, like two wings unfurling…

“Dustragdustragdustragdustragdustra—”

In the distance, thunder rolled, and a gust of wind blew hard against the inn. Something pale and white unfurled itself in the darkness and flew at Erin. She screamed, flailed wildly at the thing, and crashed to the ground with it in her arms.

For a minute, all was confusion and noise. Erin fought wildly against the monster attacking her as rain started pelting her face and it wrapped itself around her arms and head. She eventually threw it off her and scrambled to her feet to find the terrifying creature was—

A curtain.

For a few seconds, Erin just stared at the faded fabric in her hands in complete shock. Once her heart had decided to stop running a marathon, she exhaled.

“Curtains.”

She picked up the pale bit of fabric and studied it. Well, it was a curtain. That was about the extent of her detective skills. It was a white curtain—or at least it had been white a long time ago. Mildew and dirt had turned it grey, but at least it was fabric.

“Okay, okay.”

Erin’s heart was still racing far too fast. She looked around. The room was still very dark, and the wind coming in from outside made the windows shudder in a very eerie manner.

Erin closed the window. That stopped the noise, at least. But it was still way too dark to make out many details. Now, she could keep exploring the second floor. Or, having found a dustrag, she could go back down to the bottom floor. The comforting, familiar, dusty ground floor.

The room was very dark. Erin took another look around and quickly went back downstairs. She tossed the curtain on one of the tables next to the bucket she’d found and looked around.

“Let’s see. Where should I start, then?”

Really, the better question was where not to start. Aside from the walls, everything was covered by a thick layer of dust. In the end, Erin started with the table she’d sat at.

The wet curtain…rag raised a cloud of dust into the air, making Erin stumble away, coughing and hacking. But the actual task of cleaning was in fact very easy.

Erin took the dustrag, dropped it in the bucket of water, then slapped it over one table. The dull sound made her jump and look around, but nothing moved, so she took hold of the dustrag, dragged it along the table, and took all the dust and pushed it onto the floor.

Then she did another pass until she could see the wood grain beneath, a dark brown now that night was falling, and squeezed the cloth and dipped it in the bucket once more.

One dip turned the water dark grey, but rain meant that Erin had a lot of free water. Ironically, all the dust seemed to have prevented mold or other more clinging stains. A few passes of the dustrag, sending clumps and clouds of dust billowing onto the floor, and the table was mostly clean, if wet.

“Table’s done! That just leaves—um…”

Erin looked around and began to count the tables—and chairs—and floor—then decided to just clear one more table so maybe she could sleep on top. And maybe a few chairs. And since it was going fast and the rain wasn’t letting up, why not do all the tables?

Every time her bucket got so disgusting that it made the rag filthier than when it went in, Erin opened the door of the inn, tossed the water out, and sat back in one of the chairs until the bucket had filled up again. Then she started cleaning once more.

There was a rhythm to it. In no time at all, Erin had cleaned the tables, so she decided to clean all the chairs too. And once she’d finished with that, it only made sense to clean the bartop as well.

The long counter was made of some kind of high-quality wood. Erin admired the way the faint light from outside made the rich wood glow after removing the dust. The bar was long enough to accommodate at least twenty people at a time…or fifteen if they were picky about elbow room.

That done, Erin cleaned the barkeep’s shelf below the bar and the other surfaces in the common room. When she was finished, the inn seemed far warmer than it had before as the newly clean surfaces reflected the fading light from outside.

However, there was one place that Erin had avoided the entire time. Namely, the floor.

It was only natural. Erin had nothing like a mop, and she’d been pushing all the dust onto the floor the entire time. As such, huge piles of wet dust clumped together everywhere. Erin kicked at a pile and shrugged.

“Well, when you compare it with the tables and chairs…”

She could only laugh at her strange results. Clean tables, dirty floor. You could eat your dinner off the tables, at least. And who cared about floors? Floors were for stepping on, not sleeping. Erin wiped at her forehead and found she was covered with a layer of sweat. And—was it nightfall already?

Yes, sometime in her cleaning efforts, the rain had ceased and the visible light had decreased until the inn was nearly pitch dark. Now, instead of everything being a mass of shadows, there was nothing to see at all.

“So it’s not scary, but terrifying. Great.”

At least the ground floor was reassuring. Erin looked around the room, her eyes spotting the moonlight reflecting off the smooth tabletops and chairs. Yes, this room did feel a bit better. She’d cleaned it and thus made it hers, in a way. That made it safe. At least, she really hoped that was the case.

Erin sat back down in a chair and found she was exhausted. She leaned back against the table and sighed. If ever she needed proof that she was terrible in a survival situation, this would be it. Here she was, lost in a terrifying world without a clue where she was, and what was her first move? Clean the room.

“At least Mom would be happy.”

Erin laughed to herself. She closed her eyes, overcome by exhaustion. Time to rest. Maybe tomorrow, everything would be better. Maybe this was all just a dream. Probably not, but…

Her eyelids lowered. Her breathing grew slower. Erin just had enough consciousness for one last thought.

“Now I’m really, really hungry.”



[Innkeeper Class Obtained!]

[Innkeeper Level 1!]

[Skill – Basic Cleaning obtained!]

[Skill – Basic Cooking obtained!]



In the darkness, the girl cracked one eye open. She looked around and then sat up.

“…What was that?”





1.01


The inn was dark. That was because the world was dark, at least for the moment. Two moons hung in the sky, one light blue, the other pale green. But their soft light was obscured by a shifting layer of clouds overhead.

However, despite the late hour, one figure moved restlessly around the room. A young woman. Her progress left a trail in the dust as she walked. She paced from wall to wall, muttering to herself. Then she tripped over a chair.

“Ow.”

Erin brushed dust off her pants and t-shirt in disgust. Well, her clothes were officially filthy now. Parts of her t-shirt were burned black, and her jeans had been cut by the Goblins’ knives. But that wasn’t important at the moment.

“Did I just level up?”

Erin stared up at the ceiling from her fallen position. She could have stood up, but that would have required effort. And besides, Erin was hungry, tired, and confused. Lying on the floor made her feel better. Even if the dust was getting in her hair.

Ordinarily, that would have been disgusting, but at the moment—

“Seriously? I leveled up? What is this, a game?”

Slowly, Erin pulled herself up into a squat. Then she put her head in her hands.

“No. No it can’t be. But a—a Dragon and Goblins and now leveling…this is another world, right? One like Dungeons and Dragons? Or—or a video game?”

She straightened and stood up. The world seemed to be spinning around her. Common sense? Who needed that? Nope. Just hand her a few fire-breathing Dragons and let her level up by cleaning tables. Yeah, that made sense.

“Right, right. Let’s recap. I’m in another world which is actually a video game. And there are monsters in this world, and I can level up by doing stuff. I even get skills, and when I do, a voice in my head—no, more like a thought appears that tells me I’ve accomplished a task.”

She nodded to herself.

“Yep. Makes complete sense…”

Her voice trailed off. Erin’s head lowered and then snapped back up.

“Like hell it does!”

Erin screamed and kicked a chair hard enough to send it flying into the air. The chair landed with a tremendous crash, which was satisfying to hear. Less satisfying, though, was Erin’s foot, which had hit the chair hard enough to jam every toe.

After screaming in pain and hopping around a bit, Erin sat at one of the tables and cried for a while. It wasn’t that she liked crying or did it a lot (usually). It just helped at the moment.

After about ten minutes of crying, Erin finally started choking back tears. She felt better, but quickly hit upon another problem when she went to wipe away her tears and snot and remembered there wasn’t any tissue paper nearby. So she used the rag.

The wet, disgusting rag. But it was better than her shirt. After that, Erin sat, staring at nothing in particular as the darkness surrounded her.

“I’m tired.”

That was the last thing Erin said before she fell asleep. This time, there were no interruptions.



——



The next day hit Erin in the face. She groaned and sat up, head aching. Her neck felt twisted, and she was sore from lying on the floor. She still would have slept in longer if it weren’t for the sun and her stomach.

Hobbling around, Erin looked at the bright daylight streaming through one window. She shook her fist at the sunny opening in the wall and glared.

“This is why drapes were invented, you know.”

The window did not respond. Erin sighed. She was already talking to objects. Which was fine! She often cursed her invisible opponents when playing chess on the computer. Or talked to the chess pieces. She’d know she was insane if the window started speaking back.

Windows. These ones had no glass or curtains. They were square holes in the wall, but they did have shutters. Too bad Erin had chosen one of the open windows to nap underneath.

Without thinking, Erin’s hands went up to her head and came back covered in dirt and dust. Oh, right. She’d slept on the floor. The dirty floor where all the dust had gone.

Erin sat in a chair and buried her face in her hands. After a little while, her stomach growled louder.

“Got it. Message received.”

Groaning, the young woman eventually stood up. She stood, feeling her body protest the natural law of gravity, and sat down. That felt better, but then her stomach objected. Hunger and exhaustion warred, and hunger won out.

Erin got up, knowing she had to look for food. There wasn’t any in the inn; she hadn’t bothered checking the rest of the cupboards because why should she? Any food that had been around since the inn had been deserted was probably sentient and had legs by now.

So that only left the outside. But Erin hesitated as she put her hand on the door to the inn.

Monsters.

She shivered. The memory of yesterday returned, fresh and vivid, and her hands began to shake. Her burned arm flared in pain as the cuts on her legs itched and stung. Erin closed her eyes and took a breath. Yes, monsters. But—

“I’ll die here if I don’t find something to eat.”

So she opened the door. It wasn’t courage that made her do it, just the will to survive.

The day was so bright that Erin was blinded for a moment. She walked outside, shading her eyes. And then she stopped. Because a thought had struck her suddenly. Something she had realized but not taken to heart before.

“This—really is another world, isn’t it?”

It wasn’t the Goblins that convinced her. Or even the Dragon. You could imagine that, even if the burns and cuts still throbbed. People imagined aliens all the time. But what couldn’t be imagined, or, Erin thought, even faked, was this:

The clouds were too big. Erin Solstice looked up into the sky and realized it wasn’t just the clouds. The sky was too vast.

The sunlight was coming from beyond that incredible mountain range she had seen, and even now it had to fight through clouds surrounding those invisible peaks. The sky was so blue it hurt her soul, the kinds of beautiful colors that made her feel like it was a day to be remembered. Yet up, as she craned her head back, she could see clouds, even tiny, pinwheeling birds she could barely make out.

But the clouds were just too darn big. It wasn’t something Erin could explain, because she knew clouds were already vast. She had spent hours lying on her back, gazing up at the way a single one had so much depth to it, like a floating island in the sky.

These, though…Erin looked at a cloud floating overhead and realized it covered the entire grasslands, the entire basin she stood in, countless miles and the inn in one vast shadow. It was so high overhead she couldn’t understand it. She had seen airplanes flying through the sky, and she was certain that the highest ones she’d ever seen would be flying far below this single cloud.

It was larger than the entire plains. It was larger than the inn, a thousand times, ten thousand—a hundred thousand times over. Erin had visited Chicago, one of America’s biggest cities, and seen it sprawling from both the ground and from planes. You could fit that entire city up there and have more room still.

Erin’s knees shook as she looked up at a cloud the size of an island blowing through the sky. One second the world turned dark and she thought an entire world could be up there, hidden in that beautiful cloud, grey and white blowing across the world.

Then it passed, and the sun shone down on her and warmed her skin, and Erin knew. She looked around and began breathing again.

Another world.



——



Presently, Erin came back down to earth and realized there was some trickery going on on the ground as well as the sky.

For instance, all those hills and valleys? Only now did she realize what an optical illusion they created. From one of the tallest hills, she could finally identify how difficult it would be to see anything from down below.

“It’s all hills and valleys! No wonder I couldn’t find anything last night!”

If you walked carelessly, you could lose track of your surroundings and find yourself in a valley thousands of feet wide. And it was all mostly uniform, only a few flowers and rocks breaking up the tyranny of grass.

However, not green. Erin had to believe it was autumn, here. It had not been in her world—to her knowledge, it should have been around the end of July, or August at the latest. She might have forgotten the day. And month. But the grasslands were not the green she expected—instead, the grass was slowly changing color in places, moving from green to orange and even into purple in places. It was yellow running into dusky red in wavy patterns, like bands of color appearing over the landscape.

It was beautiful and, perhaps, the first thing to make Erin smile in this world. And it was also a landmark.

The plains stretched on and on without pause, which meant that you could easily lose track of where you were. But if she knew that following that band of orange led her close to this inn…

“Just so long as the grass doesn’t change color overnight, I might have a shot. Looks like it goes purple-orange-yellow and runs right next to the inn. So I can follow that back! Follow the purple-orange-yellow grass road!”

She laughed with relief. No fear of forgetting that particular pattern of colors, either. There were very similar swathes all around her, but she had a good memory. That was to say, she’d forget what day it was and if she was wearing socks, but she didn’t forget what really mattered. Like chess moves. Or this, she hoped.

Then Erin realized she could see something else from her vantage point.

Erin stopped as she started to pick out small details on the horizon. Far, far in the distance between the mountain range and the rising sun, she saw what looked vaguely like buildings. No, a wall of stone? Was there a town out there? Or a village? A…city?

It was impossible to tell from where she was standing, but the sight of that gave Erin hope that she wasn’t alone in this world. However, just the thought of travelling that far on her empty stomach was impossible, so she kept looking. The next thing that caught her eye made her heart pound with excitement.

“Are those…trees?”

Erin squinted. There was a small collection of trees in the distance, nestled in one of the valleys. They were trees, weren’t they? Erin felt they looked off—until she realized she was looking down at them from her vantage point.

It was surreal to feel herself looking down on a forest, but that was the only answer she could think of. It looked like there was a small—well, relatively speaking—valley to the east filled with trees. It didn’t seem too far away, and if Erin looked closely, she could see small specks of yellow and blue on the trees. Fruit?

There was only one way to find out. And so she began to walk in that direction, her legs and stomach overriding her cautious brain. She needed food. It wasn’t hard to walk down the gently sloping hills, and although it was less fun to walk back up the hills, at least Erin could do all of it at a meandering walk. The grass was soft under her shoes, and she had good footing. It was…peaceful. Deceptively peaceful.

In the back of her mind, Erin remembered the Goblins. Okay, maybe they weren’t Goblins, but what else could they be? They were strange, deformed children that looked like twisted versions of Humans with sharp noses, sharp teeth, little knives, and—

Goblins. And Erin remembered that they’d found her as she was running, singed and bewildered, from the Dragon.

She almost turned around, but she needed food. If worse came to worst, Erin reasoned that she could grab some of the fruit things and run back to the inn.

That was the plan. It was the plan right up until Erin found herself walking by a huge rock.

There was nothing too important about the rock, except that it was more like a boulder, a gigantic mound of stone rounded at the top like a small hill. It was twice as tall as a normal person and just as long across. In short, it was a big rock.

However, if Erin had thought about it, she might have wondered why a giant rock was right here. Suspiciously free of any other small stones and far less craggy and worn down than she might expect. Moss did cling to it in parts, but it was oddly free of any lichen near the base. But she didn’t think about such small details.

Erin ignored the rock completely, only stopping to wonder if it would provide her an even better vantage point to see around her if she climbed up. But she was hungry, so she walked right past it. It was that which saved her.

As she put the large boulder behind her, Erin felt the whoosh of air and a terrifyingly loud crack right next to her ear. She jumped, turned around, and screamed. She dove forwards as the second pincer nearly took her head clean off.

The thing that had been hiding underneath the rock lifted it up off the ground and scurried after Erin as she sprinted away. She spared only one glance over her shoulder, but that was enough. She ran even faster.

Two large, long pincers made out of a dark brown chitin were poking out from beneath the rock as the crab-monster scuttled towards her. It had lifted the gigantic, hollow shell enough so that Erin could see countless tiny crab legs tearing up the earth as it propelled itself along the ground.

It was a crab, but it was all wrong. Two long, curved eye-stalks had appeared—and the giant pincers snapping and trying to tear her to bits. Oh—and it was also taller than a school bus, if not as wide.

Erin didn’t scream as she ran. She couldn’t waste her breath. All the air in her body was devoted to keeping her running as fast as she could as she charged downhill.

Something huge missed Erin’s back, but she felt the wind as it passed by. She sped up even faster, but it sounded like it was right behind her. The giant crab was making a sound as it ran after her too, a loud clicking that sounded like gunshots going off next to Erin’s head.

So she ran faster. She thought she would be dead every next second, but she realized that the loud sounds of pursuit were dying down. Eventually, the clicking stopped, and Erin realized she couldn’t hear anything behind her. She stopped and turned to see a rock with many legs slowly moving back across the plains.

“What the…holy…crab?”

Erin could only gasp and clutch at her side. She felt like her legs were about to fall off and her lungs were about to burst. She was also lightheaded, but she really didn’t want to sit down.

Instead, she forced herself to keep walking. It hurt. Everything hurt. But she was still alive, crabs or no crabs.

Erin tried to smile. Her legs ached, but eventually, she got her breathing back under control. And even better, she was at her destination.

“Is—is that a tree?”

Erin gaped up at the strange plants before her. They were probably trees. They had bark, leaves, and fruit. But in each aspect, they were slightly—off.

The tree in front of her was thin beyond belief. It was about ten feet tall, which wasn’t very high for a tree, but the trunk was thinner than she was! And the branches were as thin as Erin’s arms and tapered off to fine points that still held leaves and, apparently, didn’t snap in the wind.

The leaves were huge, too. Big, green leaves closer to palm leaves than ones Erin might expect. However, they had that classic leaf shape, not like a maple, and they seemed thick.

Given such trees, Erin would have expected to find a bunch of branches from the decent breeze and rainfall of last night. She was used to seeing downed branches from trees in her neighborhood after big rainstorms, but to her vague surprise, she saw almost no leaves on the ground, or branches. Or fruit.

“Weird. Grey bark, green leaves, blue fruit. Who dropped the paint bucket on this thing? And why is it so…tough?”

She had gone to snap off a low-hanging branch but found that she could barely bend the thin branch, even when she held on with all her weight.

The trees were as strong as could be! What interested Erin more than the aesthetics was the edibility of the fruit. And the reachability.

Most of the blue fruits on each of the trees were clustered around the top branches. There were yellow fruits lower down, but since they were smaller, they were probably also unripe. Hesitantly, Erin grabbed a branch, and after testing her weight on it a few times, tried to pull herself up.

“I—hate—pull-ups!”

Her arms shook as she strained to get off the ground. After a few seconds, Erin got her chin above the branch, but no further. After another second, she had to let go.

Erin landed on the ground and stared up at the tantalizing blue fruits, just out of reach. If she weren’t so hungry and tired…she’d still probably never get up that high.

“Is this how I die? Starving to death because I can’t do a pull-up?”

No. That was stupid. But the more Erin thought about it…

“No. No!”

Erin jumped and managed to pull herself halfway up the first branch through sheer desperation. But her arms gave out, and she fell on her back with a whumph that knocked the air out of her.

“You…stupid tree!”

Erin’s shouts of frustration echoed in the small valley. She tried to grab the branch again, but she couldn’t even pull herself up anymore. She screamed in frustration, grabbed at her dirty hair, and then kicked the tree.

The entire tree shook slightly with the force of Erin’s kick. The leaves trembled, and the blue fruits moved—

And one fell to the ground.

Erin stared at the round, slightly fuzzy blue fruit. Then she looked up at the tree. Without a word, she grabbed the fruit. Then she looked around expectantly.

“Um, shouldn’t there be some kind of announcement?”

No response. Erin kicked the tree again and picked up another fruit.

“[Mysterious Blue Fruit acquired!] Dun dun dun dun!”

After a little bit, Erin put her head in her hands to cover her blush.

“…I hate this world.”



——



He woke up with a scream, which was hugely embarrassing. When he would inevitably meet his end, the Dragon had resolved himself to go out with dignity befitting his nature.

He’d even come up with a speech (then forgotten where he’d put it). Screaming in front of the adventurer or hero was not how he wanted to die.

But he couldn’t help it. The sight of someone appearing in front of him? For a second, he’d opened his eyes and thought he was dreaming or…remembering.

Then the Dragon had realized the young woman was indeed real, and she had entered his cave without setting off any of the hundreds—literal hundreds—of protective spells supposed to warn him or buy him a moment’s time.

Of course, in the next moment, hundreds of alarms had begun blaring in his ears that his lair was compromised and he was about to die.

So yes, he’d screamed. Maybe exhaled a bit of flame in shock; if he’d been truly in control of his faculties, the first thing he would have done would be to blow pure Dragonfire at any intruder in the vague hope it would work.

It often did. However, in this case, it had been more like…an exhalation of the noblest of gasses in surprise. A tiny tongue of flame which obviously hadn’t been aimed at the young woman as he tried to crawl to safety and fly at the same time, while also activating his emergency teleportation spell. Then he’d crashed into a wall, and by the time he picked himself up, she was gone.

An advance scout? Possibly a sacrificial decoy. The Dragon knew he was dead in moments if his foes were cunning.

Who was it? That Necromancer? One of his kin? [Knights]? A random [Hero]?

He had no idea. But the Dragon hadn’t wasted time figuring it out. He’d activated his teleport spell and been gone from his lair in moments.

At least he’d remembered that. His backup location was far less convenient and arguably far more dangerous—for most people. But as his wealth, his hoard of treasures showered down around him, the Dragon looked around and realized he wasn’t being pursued.

Not that he didn’t spend the next two days checking every magical channel and re-fortifying his new cave. He didn’t get a wink of sleep. Worse, she picked up his contingency [Message] and sent him a dozen questions by spell, asking if he were alright and what had happened.

“Just a coincidence? An accident? I don’t know, and I didn’t get anything to latch onto. Whomever it is, they’re gone. I—I shall be watchful.”

The Dragon snapped back and continued checking for signs of pursuit. But when none were apparent, even two weeks later, he had to then wonder if it had been an accident.

An accident that carried someone into his cave? Maybe some magical…disturbance at the Academy? There were stranger things that had happened. When he replayed his memories, she seemed as surprised as he.

Naturally, he didn’t put anything to chance and continued fortifying and getting accustomed to his new hideout. He hated the location, the neighbors, and the complications for anyone visiting, but it might be safer.

“At least, from strange young women appearing out of nowhere. She had to have been the subject of—of some chance. Maybe a [Gambler] or whatnot. Otherwise, I would be either dead or have been contacted by whomever it was. It cannot be Demons; they’re far too unsubtle. Who else? If it was the Quarass, I’d be dead. Djinni smell of magic. And that leaves…my kin, who wouldn’t do that.”

His brow wrinkled as he tried to figure it out. He truly had no idea. Well, he would keep checking, and if he didn’t sense any pursuit, he might put it down to the random causality of events.

Besides, he realized that there was one small, small silver lining to this entire debacle. The intrusion into his lair had woken him up, and he feared he wouldn’t sleep for another year. But until he did, he could do some housekeeping.

Glumly, the Dragon consulted his notes.

“That time again? Two hundred years already? I might as well. It’s courteous.”

He made a huge face and yawned. Distastefully, but there was such a thing as manners. Sullenly, he reached out to the nearest city he could find and made a few arrangements. Then he settled back.

He was already dozing by the end of the third day. He was tired. And such obligations as he had left in life? There were very few. The only thing he had left was pride. Pride, waiting for the last young woman or whomever it was to appear. He had a speech…somewhere…

And a few social obligations to uphold. That was all. The Dragon slept once more.





1.02


The fruit in her hands was blue, probably a fruit, and pretty large. Erin had seen monster apples before in stores, the weirdly expensive ones that were three times as big as their smaller cousins. That was about the size of the blue fruit.

Her stomach rumbled just looking at it. Erin raised the fruit to her mouth, then hesitated.

“…Am I going to die?”

It was a good question. Erin studied the fruit in her hand. She sniffed it cautiously. It smelled faintly…sweet. She poked it. Tender. Probably succulent. Then she licked the outside.

“Pheh! Hairy!”

Maybe it would be better to peel it after all. Maybe it was actually some kind of alien monster she was holding, and if she bit it, she’d be eating a mouthful of guts and blood. That thought made Erin hesitate for a few moments before she started peeling it away.

“It’s like a peach. Not a monster, not a monster…”

Erin peeled off the outer layer of blue fruit and found the inside of the fruit was a purplish-blue. The juice ran to the ground and smelled…Erin’s stomach grumbled, but she’d found something else that caught her attention.

“That is the biggest seed I’ve ever seen. There’s more seed here than fruit!”

Erin held up the core of the blue fruit, which was indeed a seed core two-thirds the size of the blue fruit itself. The shell was a stained purple-brown, but Erin felt something sloshing about inside when she shook it.

“Okay, time to see what’s inside.”

She’d need a rock for that. Erin transferred the seed core to her other hand and stood up. As she did, she squeezed the core gently.

Crack. Crack.

Fragile. The brown shell split open and disgorged a mess of pulpy seeds and brown juice onto Erin’s pants and the ground. She stared at the mess in silence until the pungent odor hit her nose—an incredibly powerful chemical smell similar to antifreeze or some kind of cleaning product.

Slowly, Erin stood up and brushed the seed vomit off her clothes. That did nothing to get rid of the smell, though. Then she picked up the pieces of the seed’s core and hurled them as hard as she could against one of the trees.

“I hate this world!”



——



After a while, her stomach began to growl again as the smell from the seed pod dissipated in the morning air. Hesitantly, Erin grabbed the second blue fruit and brought it to her lips. She had taken care to not get any of the seed pod’s innards on her hands, and she wasn’t about to eat the first fruit.

She didn’t know much about herb lore or good fruits or bad ones, but just the smell of the seed core’s innards had convinced Erin it was unwise to try. The actual fruit on the other hand…

This time, she bit into the outer skin and chewed. The texture was unpleasantly rubbery and tough to chew, but thankfully it was edible. And what was more—

The pure, sugary taste that rushed into Erin’s mouth put her in mind of blueberries. Only—the blue fruit was a bit tougher, so maybe a strawberry? A strawberry that someone sprinkled sugar on and had the taste of blueberries. In short—

“Wow. This tastes really good!”

That was the remark Erin made after she’d consumed eight more of the blue fruits, all in rapid succession. The seed pods she left untouched on the ground, but she happily devoured the outer rinds, stripping an entire tree clean before she was finally full.

Groaning with satisfaction, she sat back against the tree. She felt good. Sticky and smelly, true, but good. The day was fair and warm, and with her stomach full and the soft grass beneath her, there was only one thought on her mind.

Bathroom.

Maybe it was something in the fruits that triggered it, or maybe it was just long overdue. Either way, Erin was suddenly, keenly aware of a certain need pressing at her. Erin sighed and stood back up.

“Nature calls. I hate nature.”

She walked behind the nearest tree and then around it. There wasn’t much…cover here, but she really had to go.

“Well, what am I hiding from anyways?”

Erin thought about that for a moment then deliberately edged around the trunk until the sun was out of view. That made her feel better.

A few seconds later, Erin felt refreshed and happy. Her stomach was full, other parts were empty, and best yet, she was alive.

“Now, how am I going to get back past that crab rock-monster?”

Erin’s stomach twisted unpleasantly at the thought, and her heart began to pound in her chest. But an idea struck her as she looked at the countless seed pods on the ground.



——



The large, duplicitous rock seemed more and more out of place the more Erin looked at it. If she’d been able to think past her hunger before, she’d have wondered how such a large stone made it all the way to the grasslands without being eroded by the elements. Well, that stupid crab-creature was clearly one of the predators in this world.

And it was quick. Erin didn’t want to run away again, so she really hoped this plan of hers would work. Did crabs have noses? Probably not, but she really hoped they could still smell.

Slowly, Erin walked forward. The rock remained motionless. Well, that was fine.

Erin picked up a small stone and hurled it at the rock. It bounced off.

She waited. The rock didn’t shift so much as an inch.

Erin picked up another, larger stone and threw it against the rock. She wasn’t a good shot, so the rock glanced off the side. Again, there was no response.

“Uh, is…is this the right rock?”

Erin looked around. No other suspicious large rocks in sight. But it wasn’t doing anything.

“Get closer…no, that’s stupid.”

She eyed the rock again. Well, if it wasn’t going to move…

Erin turned away. She’d circle around. Far around. She began walking away.

Click.

It was such a small sound. But it made her freeze and then whirl around.

Erin caught the rock crab crawling towards her stealthily. In just a few seconds, it had covered nearly twenty feet. She stared in horror as it reared upwards.

Clickclickclickclickclickclickclick—

The rock crab began its high-speed shuffle towards her. Two enormous claws and a pair of dark eyes curled up from underneath the rock again.

Erin stepped back, half-turned to run, and remembered what was in her other hand. She took swift aim and threw the seed pod she had been holding.

Bullseye. The seed core smacked the rock crab right on the antenna and burst into a shower of pulpy liquid. Even at this range, Erin could smell the toxic odors on the breeze.

If she were honest, Erin didn’t know what she expected. Pain or shock from the rock crab, maybe. She’d nailed it pretty good on the antenna, and she was sure that had to hurt. But still, it wasn’t as if the seed cores were that heavy. She expected the crab to recoil and maybe get scared off by the scent at best.

What she didn’t expect was for the crab to freak out and start smashing itself with one of its claws. It was panicking, frantically scraping away at the spot she’d struck with the seed core, ignoring the damage it was doing to its own antenna. At the same time, the rock crab was making distressed sounds.

It sounded like the loudest cricket in the world, only a lot deeper and echoing out from beneath the rocky shell the crab was wearing. That was enough to make Erin back up until she was back among the trees and the crab was barely visible.

Even after she’d gone a ways away, she could still see the crab doing an unhappy dance as it tried to scrape off the seed pod fragments.

“Huh.”

Erin scratched her head.

“Well, it’s good to know they hate fruit.”

Speaking of which…Erin decided to get more of the delicious blue fruits. As many as she could carry, in fact. Blue was now the color of breakfast, lunch, and dinner, and she only wished she had more hands. Could she make a basket somehow…? Out of grass?

She kicked at a tuft of the stuff.

“…That’s a stupid idea.”

How about her shirt then, or pants? But that was a bit…well, there was no one around to see her except the rock crabs, right? Even so.

“Too bad I’m not a streaker, huh?”

Erin addressed that comment to a nearby patch of grass. The grass said nothing in reply.

With a sigh, Erin walked away. She slowly crested a small hill and found herself looking down on the fruit orchard once more.

She also found herself looking at several short, green creatures that had appeared in her absence. They were kicking trees and harvesting the blue fruits that fell to the ground.

They were instantly familiar to her, of course, but the transfixed Human got a good look at them again. They were short, four feet tall at most, possibly even shorter. Almost like children, although their heads were too big.

That was because of all the teeth. But they wore ragged loincloths and were grunting and poking one another. Erin saw pointed ears, scabs from some healing wounds, and as one glanced up and saw her and froze—she saw two crimson, glowing eyes.

For a few seconds, they didn’t see her. Then one of them looked up and saw the slack-jawed Human staring their way. He made a shrill noise, and the others looked around.

“G-goblins?”

The nearest creature took a step towards her. He looked harmless. For a moment. Then he bared his incredibly sharp teeth and drew a knife. His friends did likewise. They advanced on the young woman.

The young woman, for her part, stared in horror for two more seconds and then pointed one finger. She opened her mouth and screamed.

“Gobliiiiiiiiins!”

The green-skinned monsters stopped and stared as the young woman screamed and took off, running at top speed. But they followed her doggedly despite the insane speed at which she sprinted. These Goblins had learned to hunt other species and knew that Humans panicked easily and grew tired. They’d catch her as soon as she slowed down.

…Assuming she ever slowed down.



——



It was evening. The sun cast long shadows across the plains. All was silent. Aside from the screaming rock crab smashing itself in the head and the screaming Human, there was no sound in the world.

All was calm.

A single figure sprinted across the grasslands. She was running as fast as she could. Behind her, a group of squat creatures followed. It was nearly dinnertime.

Erin Solstice, aged 20. A young woman from Grand Rapids, Michigan, with a casual interest in video games and a deep obsession with strategy games. Her hobbies include snow tubing, watching YouTube videos, playing chess, shogi, go, etc. She dreams of one day becoming a professional board game commentator.

Currently—

Running for her life.

Again.



——



Erin found a stream running down a hill a few hundred feet away from the inn. Its position and relative size meant it was the perfect place for her to gather water or even wash herself should the need arise. All things considered, it was an idyllic windfall of a discovery.

She took three steps, leapt, cleared the stream in one jump, and hit the ground running. The stream kept flowing as she left it rapidly behind. Not once did Erin look back, although her throat was burning.

She was still being chased.

By Goblins. They swarmed after her, wading through the stream despite the strong current. And though they were small, their bodies were wiry and their dirty arms muscled. And they all carried weapons.

Generally, they wore daggers or short swords, but Erin had spotted what looked like a meat cleaver on one of them. She was too busy running to get a good look, but if they were like the ones she had met yesterday, the weapons were rusty, stained with dried blood and crusty substances, and sharp.

That, combined with the Goblins’ faces, made them terrifying. Normal Goblins were supposed to look ugly, but not dangerous. In video games, Erin had always seen them depicted as short, man-like creatures with beaky noses, pointed ears, and ugly faces. But these Goblins…

Pointy ears? Check.

Ugly face? Check.

Their noses weren’t too pointed, but they were definitely carrots compared to potatoes as noses went. But what really scared Erin were their teeth.

They had two rows of teeth. Like sharks. They had blood red eyes, like monsters in nightmares. Glowing red eyes. And they screamed as they chased her.

It didn’t sound like normal screaming. Erin was used to hearing screams, but they only came out of Humans. The sound the Goblins made wasn’t a continuous sound but a kind of ululating noise that seemed to grow louder the longer they yelled.

Yiyeyiyeyiyeyiyeyiyeyiyeyiyeyiyeyiyeyiyeyiyeyiyeyiyeyi—

It made Erin break out into a cold sweat, and she pumped her legs even faster to charge up the hill. She was in one of the valleys, but she knew she was headed straight for the inn. She just had to get there and, and—

That’s where they’d kill her. Erin would get to the inn, and they’d surround it, break in somehow, and tear her to shreds. But what other choice did she have? None. She couldn’t run forever.

Already, Erin felt like someone was twisting a knife into her side, and she was gasping for air. She was no athlete. The only reason she was still ahead of the Goblins by a good bit was because they were short. She also guessed they were letting her use up all her energy before closing in for the kill.

Erin crested the hill, stumbled, caught herself, and saw the inn’s dark brown walls only a hundred feet away. She dashed towards it, throwing all of her energy into a desperate sprint.

The Goblins’ voices had faded a bit by the time she burst through the inn’s doorway and slammed it shut. But she knew they were only minutes away at best, so Erin stood up despite the agony in her chest and legs.

The door had a metal bar that could be slid to prevent it from being opened. Erin did that and then looked around. Windows. The common room had so many windows.

“Oh, you’ve got to be—”

She didn’t waste time on the rest of her sentence. Erin dashed over to one window and slammed the wooden shutters closed. Then she fumbled with the latch. It was a cheap bit of metal, but it might buy her a few seconds.

Erin sped around the room, fighting to close the windows as the Goblins’ shouting grew louder and louder. She slammed shut the last window and let out a huge sigh of relief. Then she remembered that the inn had a second floor.

The mysterious darkness of the second floor that had terrified Erin the night before didn’t even slow her steps as she dashed up the stairs. She ran in and out of each room as fast as she could, closing windows. While some of the mantles had succumbed to the rot, all of the shutters were mostly intact. She’d hear if they were being smashed in, at least.

Erin ran into the room at the end of the corridor and stopped when she saw the skeleton in the last bed. But even that didn’t slow her much, and she closed the windows just in time to hear the Goblins start pounding on the door downstairs.

They didn’t get in that way. But as Erin sped down the stairs, she heard one of the shutters break. And then another.

The first Goblin squeezed through a window as Erin stood petrified. The second and third were right behind him.

Erin backed up. The first Goblin came at her as his fellows spread out behind him. There were five—no, seven of them.

Her legs were shaking. Erin tried to turn over a table, but the Goblin was too quick. He lunged forward, and she fell backwards with a small scream. He laughed and jumped for her, knife swinging.

Erin rolled backwards and felt a stinging cut on her leg. She scrambled to her feet and looked down.

Blood. It ran down her leg from the cut in two wavy lines. She looked back at the Goblin and saw his grinning face.

It was a similar grin. Or smile. Or expression, really. But to Erin, it was the same face. The same as a Human’s. Mocking. Confident. The kind of face young men—

He licked at the blood on his knife. Erin’s face froze. The fear that had been bubbling inside her turned in an instant to anger. The Goblin didn’t notice and ran for her, still grinning.

Erin’s leg shot up. She didn’t kick. It was just a lightning-fast shot right between the legs. She could have sworn she heard something crunch.

The Goblin’s face, which had been so full of malicious glee, froze up. He turned pale, made a high-pitched keening sound, and toppled over.

The other Goblins stared in shock at their friend. Erin stared in shock too, but had the presence of mind to grab a chair before they could react. She raised it threateningly.

“Well? Come on!”

Erin swung the chair like a club. The Goblins ducked underneath it and advanced on her, swinging low.

A lucky blade slashed Erin’s leg, and she cried out in pain. Instantly, she brought the chair up and over her head and smashed the Goblin flat.

In movies, the chair would break off, leaving Erin with the stumps in her hands. In reality, the impact made her hands sting, but the chair didn’t so much as creak. The Goblin, on the other hand, screamed a lot.

His fellows backed up as Erin held the chair up for another swing. Her leg was bleeding badly from the cut, but she was more mad than scared at this point. Plus, she had a chair. All they had were knives.

In fact, she had more than one chair.

“Eat this!”

Erin tossed the chair at one Goblin and clipped him on the head as he ducked. He fell down too, and meanwhile, Erin had grabbed another chair. She used it like a shield, jabbing the legs at the nearest Goblin and forcing him back.

Faced with an unexpected threat, the others split up and tried to circle around Erin. Accordingly, she tried not to let them. But even if they were surprisingly fragile, they were quick and hard to hit. Before long, the remaining four Goblins were all around Erin, peering under tables, feinting at her from behind unheld chairs.

“Get back!”

Erin tossed her chair again and, again, missed. But as the Goblins ducked, she turned around and fled for the stairs. She had longer legs, but they were quick too and surged after her as she jumped up the stairs two at a time.

The fastest Goblin was hot on her heels, cackling with that strange laughter as he swiped at the back of her legs. Erin ignored the bleeding and hit the top of the stairs with the Goblin right behind her. He laughed evilly.

And stopped when he realized it was just him and the Human female at the top of the stairs. He looked up. The big Human female made a fist.

——

The fourth Goblin crashed down the stairs, face a bloody mess. The remaining three Goblins looked up at the young woman standing above them and hesitated. But she was prey. Prey didn’t fight back!

One threw a knife. It hit Erin in the stomach point first, but the toss was so weak it barely penetrated her skin. She ignored it and leapt down the stairs.

Two hands on the handrail let Erin swing her legs up. She was no gymnast, but rage gave her a moment of athletic inspiration. Both her feet crashed into the face of the knife-throwing Goblin.

He screamed and clutched at his broken, bleeding nose. His two friends ran back as Erin landed on the ground. The bleeding Goblin waved his knife at Erin. She slapped him.

Crack. It was a good slap, the kind that made Erin’s hand go numb. The Goblin fell down, stunned, and his hand let go of his knife.

Erin stared at it. Then, before the other two Goblins could move, she grabbed it. And when she stood up, she had a very different expression on her face.

The remaining Goblins looked at her. They weren’t just two, not really. Their friends hadn’t been knocked out, just hurt. Already, they were getting up while clutching their bruised heads and bodies. However…

The Human female was facing them, knife in hand. She didn’t look as frightened as she had been before. In fact, she looked quite angry. That wasn’t good. She seemed suddenly bigger, and the Goblins were keenly aware that she had just beaten two-thirds of their number in a matter of seconds.

And she had a knife.

The Goblins stared at Erin. She stared back. Now they were all awake and upright, but they didn’t seem to be about to attack. In fact, they seemed sort of nervous.

Erin stared at them. They stared at her. Her eyes began to water, but she didn’t dare blink. But she had to do something, right?

“Boo!”

The Goblins shrieked and ran. They crashed out of the broken windows and ran as if pursued by demons.

Erin stayed where she was for quite some time, hands still half-raised. Eventually, she lowered them.

She wanted to scratch her head, but nearly stabbed her eye out with a knife. Carefully, Erin put the knife on a table and then sat in the nearest chair. Her legs had lost all strength.

“Ha. Haha.”

Erin coughed and then chuckled again.

“Hahaha.”

Her chest hurt. Her arms hurt. Her legs hurt. Actually, her entire body hurt. She felt like she was dying. But.

“I can’t even laugh properly right now. Hahahahahaha…ha?”

And then she did laugh. She started laughing as she sat with her back against the table, bleeding onto the inn’s dirty floor. She laughed and laughed until tears were in her eyes. And as she closed her eyes, she smiled. Then she bumped her cuts and stopped smiling. But she still slept.

[Innkeeper Level 4!]

“…Hey. What happened to levels 2 and 3?”



——



The last of the Goblin warriors fled the fearsome Human in a rush. It had only been seven of them in total, hardly an actual raiding group even for their tiny tribe.

Even so—seven Goblins versus one Human without a weapon? They should have killed her. That they hadn’t was bad.

Bad for many reasons that even the littlest Goblin, crouched and watching the inn from afar, could understand. She and two others were so small and young that they weren’t even warriors; her weapon was a basket, and it had been full of blue fruits until the chase.

Deadly, dangerous blue fruits that could kill you foaming-mouth-dead. But they were so hungry, the Goblins would take that risk. They were so hungry, eating Human sounded good.

And now they were hungry, hurt, and embarrassed. The Goblins snarled as they limped away. They didn’t talk to the littlest Goblin, just grunted and pointed and made the smaller ones get their baskets and go back for actual food they could take back to the tribe.

The little Goblin ducked a swat from one holding his crotch and fled. She didn’t know the name of Injured Crotch, but that was now his nickname in her mind. Goblins didn’t have names. Only their [Chieftain] had any real title, and he was scariest of all.

The seven Goblin warriors were so irate at their loss they jabbed the smaller Goblins to hurry up until they got back to the trees. Then they sat down, tried to rub dirt or spit onto their injuries, and pointed with huge growls at the trees.

The little Goblins had to kick the trees and collect the fruits. The smallest one was so hungry she took a bite from the sweet blue fruit and got hit again by one of the older Goblins. He snarled. She wasn’t allowed to eat here! He kicked the blue fruit away savagely and gestured emphatically to hurry up.

The Goblin warriors were looking around—nervously. The giant thing that hid under rocks might come back. Or something else seeking to kill Goblins. Which might be…anything.

The little Goblin sniffed as she covered her head, but grabbed as many ripe fruits as she could. Then she had to run with the basket back to their tribe.

Their tribe was a lot of Goblins in a cave. It was small, so narrow you had to roll under a rocky opening and crawl forwards until it grew tall enough to stand.

There was no light here except a few cracks in the ceilings, but the little Goblin could still see just fine. It was wet here after all the rain, and it smelled of poo.

But it was safe from big monsters and other things. Even if the [Chieftain] sometimes got stuck going in and out, this place was far safer than outside.

The little Goblin had no idea when the tribe had gotten here. Nor why they were here. She was only…young. No one explained things to her. The older Goblins mostly hit her and made her do things. That was how they were taught, but the little Goblin thought she was seven sticks, three rocks, and two leaves old.

She’d been counting. But she didn’t know numbers above ten. The only Goblin so wise, who could even speak words and read them, was the [Chieftain].

He was mad again. He sat, twice as big as any other Goblin, snarling at anyone around him while he waited for a smoky fire to warm a bit of food. The littlest Goblin’s stomach growled as she saw it.

A dead deer. The [Chieftain] had found food! All the Goblins were watching hungrily, but the [Chieftain] would eat first. Then, the little Goblin hoped, there would be at least bones, but possibly some hot meat.

The fruits were placed next to the deer carcass, but the [Chieftain] snarled and kicked the fruits away. The Goblins were made to take them away from the precious meat and remove the little bad things.

The small Goblin had no idea why, only that it was bad. Bad-death. She wished…someone would explain. But only the [Chieftain] knew.

He had taught them numbers. So he could tell them to get ten blue fruits each. Learning to count was amazing. The little Goblin had counted teeth, flies, Goblins—until the [Chieftain] kicked dirt at her.

But then she’d been counting days she’d been awake and realized she didn’t have more than ten, and she had been awake more than ten days, right?

It had been a big puzzle. So, to forget her hungry, rumbling stomach, the littlest Goblin with no name sat in her sleeping spot and looked at her big idea.

She counted one thing with leaves. Then, when she had ten leaves…she put down a rock instead. And that meant ten leaves. And if she had ten rocks, that meant it was now a stick. Paradoxically, she had decided grass was bigger than a stick by ten again, even though blades of grass were smaller in size than sticks. Otherwise she’d lose track of all the itty bitty pieces of grass that could get blown around. She had not needed a piece of grass yet, but she was looking forwards to getting a nice purple stem to count with.

That was how she thought she’d seen seven sticks, three rocks, and two leaves of sun. She’d counted backwards to figure that out, but she thought it made sense. The rains had been falling a lot when she was born, and they fell regularly. At least—they had twice already, after it got really cold.

The cold. The little Goblin shivered. That would be a bad time. It was wet now, but it could get wetter. And she was hungry. She looked back and saw that the tribe was eating. She sprang up and ran forwards, but there were only scraps already, and so she had only a single mouthful of bloody meat and half a fruit.

This was the little Goblin’s life. She sat, listening to her [Chieftain] growling, an echo of her tummy. She curled up as he demanded to know why his warriors were hurt.

They didn’t tell him. And the other Goblins didn’t either because the [Chieftain] would be very mad to know they’d let a single Human live. So he just hit them and made them look for more things to eat.

The little Goblin sat there and watched the [Chieftain] out of the corner of her eye. He sat there, a scowl on his face. Angry. Always angry. But the other Goblins were like that. Angry. Or they woke up and slept and ate.

She didn’t know why, but they were missing something. When, rarely, they stole something very nice like the colorful water, the [Chieftain] would get happy and then angrier still, or quiet. And he would do what no other Goblin did and talk. And he would say there should be more Goblins. A bigger cave. And the Goblins would listen to him until he scattered them with a fist or one of his great weapons, an axe made out of bone.

He spoke for the first time in two rocks and one grass as the little Goblin listened. Two words. The [Chieftain] looked around and growled as he wiped blood and spat fur from his mouth.

“Need [Shaman].”

But what that was, the little Goblin had no idea. And he said nothing more, so she went back to counting the steps to the blue fruit trees with her grass and rocks. She thought of the strange Human in the big wooden thing. And she wondered if that meant anything different would happen.

Less blue fruits to eat, probably.



Amentus Fruit (Blue Fruit) Trees by Enuryn





1.03


The next morning, the young woman sat in a chair and pondered. It seemed stupid. No, it was stupid. But there could be only one explanation.

“When you level in dreams, you level in real life?”

Erin thought about that for a moment.

“Huh.”

She sat in the chair for a few more minutes. Those minutes turned into half an hour and then nearly a full hour before her stomach grumbled.

“Right, food.”

After another hour, Erin decided to get up. Her body protested the movement, but her stomach overruled her legs. She got up and reluctantly stumbled out the door.

Her legs hurt. As she stepped outside, Erin felt at the back of her legs and winced.

“Right. Knife cuts.”

She should wash those. If she had water. But since she didn’t and the wounds were already scabbed over, Erin left them and started walking.

It was a long, long walk back to the fruit trees. Erin was only glad she remembered where they were. She was even gladder that there weren’t any suspicious rocks along her route, but that only made her warier. Could they burrow? Were there grass crabs?

If there were, they didn’t seem interested in her at the moment. Erin found the strange, spindly trees easily and picked an armful of blue fruits. She was glad they were bountiful with the blue orbs, and gladder still the Goblins hadn’t stripped them bare. But it was a veritable orchard here, so she gathered as many as she could.

Erin sat and ate fourteen. It wasn’t that she was hungry so much as really thirsty. She sucked as much of the blue juice out of the fruits before gathering as many as she could carry and walked back to the inn. The seed cores she left where they lay.

…Actually, now that she thought of it…

Erin doubled back and grabbed two seed cores and placed them carefully on top of her stack of blue fruits.

“Just in case. I should also get a bow and arrow or something, right? Too bad I have no idea how to shoot anything. Or have any idea how to carve a bow. You carve bows, right?”

Erin thought about that as she walked back over the sloping ground, taking care not to trip and break the seed cores. How would she make anything, anyways?

“Um. Is it three bars of iron and two sticks to make a pickaxe? Or can I make a wood sword by punching trees? Why couldn’t this be Minecraft instead?”

But now that she thought of it, Erin remembered the trees.

“Firewood. If I could cut the wood away, that is.”

She thought of the incredibly stiff branches.

“…Nope. But wait a second. What about fallen branches? Or—”

She turned around and started walking back. But again, she found no detritus from the tough trees anywhere in the orchard.

“Weird.”

Frustrated, Erin kicked a tree and dodged another falling blue fruit. She added it to her armful and walked back to the inn.

The room was still a mess from last night’s fight. Erin set the fruits down on one table and started righting chairs and tables.

“Stupid Goblins.”

She paused as a thought struck her. Goblins. Oh yeah. She’d fought Goblins.

Her eyes fell on the knife she’d taken from one of them. Slowly, Erin’s legs folded up, and she sat on the dusty ground again. Then she sneezed.

“Dusty. This is stupid.”

She got back up and looked around. Where was it? There.

“Dustrag. Let’s do this.”

Erin got down and began sweeping up the dust on the floor. It was difficult since she had to move all the tables and chairs out of the way, but it gave her something to do. She only had a small, dirty rag anyways after cutting the curtain into easier-to-use parts, so she was mainly doing it to think. Her mouth was terribly dry, but Erin started working. She had to focus.

“Goblins.”

Erin stared at the waves of dust as she scrubbed.

“Seriously. Goblins.”

She shifted two tables aside and pushed the dust out of the way.

“…With shark teeth. That’s messed up.”

Erin thought about that.

“But I won.”

She amended the statement instantly.

“Barely. They’re not that dangerous. They’re like kids. And I can beat up tons of kids even with knives. If I’m careful.”

Not that she was going to make a habit of that! Just Goblins. She could fight them off. Then Erin reconsidered again.

“Unless they stab me in my sleep. Or there are lots of them. I’m probably safe if I make sure they can’t get in without me hearing it. I should block every way in but have, like, an escape window.”

She’d have to remember to do that. Then she’d be forewarned and could hold them off or run; they didn’t seem as fast as she was. So she was reasonably safe from them? Erin bit her lip.

“There’s the rock-crab-thing. Does it eat Goblins?”

Was she safe in here from that thing? It couldn’t fit through the door, but could it knock down the walls? Probably not.

So, as far as she knew, the inn was reasonably safe if she took precautions. What about leaving it? The Goblins—a memory nagged at her. They’d been carrying baskets. Which meant…

They hadn’t gone hunting for her.

“They were eating the blue fruits. So they live nearby. Wonderful. I’m going to run into them again. Which means I need a weapon. Great.”

Erin stopped and put her face in her hands. She immediately regretted that decision.

“Pheh! Dusty.”

She sighed and grabbed the rag. Time to clean up some…more?

“Uh. What happened to the dust?”

The floor of the inn was made out of floorboards. Very sensibly, and in keeping with the rest of the inn, which was also made out of wood. However, Erin had never seen the floor before. Up till this very moment, it had been covered by a thick layer of dust.

There had been so many clumps of dust rabbits it had been more like a dust sea, and a disgusting one at that. Erin had left a trail every time she walked across the floor, hence her desire to get rid of it. A task that would surely take at least two days given the size of the inn and her tool of choice, a rag instead of a broom or mop.

Now though, she was staring at the floor. A clean, dustless floor. Erin gazed down and then stared some more. Then she looked at her hands.

“Was that me?”

It must have been, but how had she done it? Of the numerous and varied—of the few talents Erin possessed, cleaning was not one of them.

Oh sure, she could clean up spills and small messes. Anything that involved tossing water and mopping stuff up was okay. But this?

“I wasn’t even dusting for more than—an hour? Two? And it’s all clean.”

Erin scuffed at the floor and amended that thought.

“Sort of clean. You couldn’t eat your dinner off it, I guess. But that’s why we have plates.”

And it was a definite upgrade from before. Distractedly, Erin scratched her head and felt the caked dirt and dust on her face start to crumble away.

“The floor is clean. I am not.”

Erin stared at the floor again and felt hot, sweaty, and very dirty. She felt like she was forgetting something, but she was so hot—she was dehydrated! And as soon as Erin realized that, she realized how thirsty she was.

“Right. I need a drink.”

Water, preferably. But Erin would have killed for a nice, cool drink of anything, really. Too bad there wasn’t any water nearby. More blue fruits? Why hadn’t she kept that bucket of water from when it had been raining? Instead, she’d used it to clean tables! Erin groaned, but she knew she couldn’t waste time on recriminations. She looked around and came to a realization.

“Time to find some. Or I’ll die. Whichever comes first.”

Erin wandered out of the inn. After a minute, she walked back in, grabbed the knife, and closed the door behind her as she left. After another minute, she walked back in and threw the dustrag on the ground. She slammed the door as she left this time.



——



“It’s really hot.”

Erin stumbled through the grass, looking around blearily every few steps. Her mouth felt dry and nasty. She had a headache, and she felt sweaty and gross. But what was really on her mind was water.

“Water. Water is water. Because water. Where’s the water?”

Erin walked for a few minutes in one direction and saw no water. So she turned left and started walking that way. Then she doubled back around and sat down. Her head felt…thick. And she was so unwell she sat there for a long time until she felt she had to get up.

She was so thirsty, and that overrode the throbbing feeling in her mind.

“I could drink a Gatorade. Or a Pepsi. I like Coke too, though. What about Pepsi and Coke and Gatorade? Gatorpepcoke? Pegatoroke?”

It occurred to her that she wasn’t making much sense. Even for her, that was. Erin looked around for the water and felt her head spinning. Her head was really starting to hurt.

“Cogapeptorade?”

Her foot slipped. Or maybe she stumbled. But suddenly, Erin tripped and had to spin around to keep her balance. That was so much fun that she started spinning around as she walked. She stopped after a few seconds and tried not to vomit.

“Feel sick.”

She wiped her brow. At least she wasn’t sweating. It was really hot, though. Weird.

She really needed to sit down in the shade. But there wasn’t any to be found, at least not where she was. Maybe if she lay down she’d feel better?

Erin went to bend over. Halfway down, she remembered.

“The stream!”

She tried to stand up and nearly fell flat on her face.

“Where—where was it?”

Head spinning, Erin looked around. The inn was still visible.

“It was there. So if I’m here…there?”

Shakily, Erin began stumbling towards where the stream was. As luck had it, she was closer than she thought and came across it in a matter of minutes.



——



The stream was flowing fast, cold, and surprisingly deep. The young woman didn’t care. The instant she spotted it over the small rise, concealed as it wound its way down from the mountains, she broke into a run and threw herself forwards, gasping with relief.

“Water!”

She cupped her hands and began drinking the water as fast as she could. One mouthful and Erin’s eyes bulged. She spat the water back out and looked down at her hands.

Her dirty, dust-covered, filthy hands. Erin dunked her hands in the water and gave them a scrub—as well as her face—and rinsed out her mouth before she tried again. Then she drank one huge palmful, another, and then five more.



——



It was around the fourth palmful that Erin realized she’d made a bad mistake. The water was delicious and as cold as ice cubes, but she was so thirsty she drank it down like…water. Five minutes later, she was lying on her side trying not to puke.

Too much water on a dehydrated body. Erin could feel her stomach trying to empty itself and was determined not to let it.

“It—it hurts. It really hurts…”

No one had told her not to drink water fast! Okay, maybe every P.E. teacher she’d ever had, but why didn’t she listen? The groaning girl was praying no Goblins or a crab snuck up on her right now, because she was afraid she wouldn’t be able to run if they did.

Fortunately for her, it seemed like nothing else was thirsty at the moment. And after what felt like an age of groaning in agony, the pain in her stomach receded enough for her to sit up. She was really glad she hadn’t puked. She only had one pair of clothes, after all.

Speaking of which—Erin raised her arm and sniffed. She shuddered and came to another decision.

“…Bath time.”



——



The stream was far deeper than Erin had thought. Deep enough for her to sit up to her shoulders in water along the edge. It was also cold. Erin had thought she knew pain when, in the delirium of waking up, she’d turn on the shower and realized she’d hit the cold water on full blast.

That was nothing to this stream’s chill. It was probably mountain runoff, and so it was one step above freezing. Erin’s teeth were chattering, and the fast-moving current meant that there wasn’t even a body of water to warm up in time.

It wasn’t even numbingly cold, which was too bad.

“B-being numb would be better than being really cold.”

But it was water, and it was making her clean. And the longer she sat, the warmer Erin felt. That was probably because her body was freezing up, but she didn’t care.

Erin ran her hand through her wet hair and sighed. She’d scrubbed hard, but without soap or shampoo, what could you do? And when she thought about how she hadn’t used a toothbrush in days…yuck.

At least the inn was clean, now. And since she was no longer actively dying of thirst, Erin had figured out how she’d done it so fast.

“Hm. So, [Basic Cleaning] was really a skill after all?”

Erin thought about it. It was better than thinking of cavities and rotting gums.

“…Huzzah. What a great skill! I mean, I might have to fight off giant crabs and Goblins, but at least I’ll be able to clean the floor while they eat me! I wouldn’t want to leave a mess.”

She sighed and dunked her head into the water.

“Gah! Cold!”

The stream was deep enough that Erin was up to her shoulders in the cold water. And it was moving fast enough that if she lay on her back, she might be swept downstream quite quickly.

“And if I follow the stream long enough, do I get to an ocean? Or just a lake?”

It was a tempting thought. Why not just let the waters carry her away to somewhere else? Anywhere had to be better than here, after all. She could leave and then…

“Then I’d be eaten by something else. Underwater Goblins, probably.”

Erin punched the water and sighed again.

“Monsters, monsters all around. And not one of them looks edible. But at least there’s blue fruit that smells like cleaning fluid. And at least there’s a dusty old inn. And at least I have four levels in innkeeping. Huzzah for me.”

She splashed some water on her face. Tired. She felt really tired. But being clean was helping a lot. Now that she had water she could drink and eat, at least. And with water, she could even have a bath.

“A really frickin’ cold bath.”

But it was good. And the sun was warm. Erin thought about getting out of the water and lying on the grass while the sun warmed her up. That was a good thought. Her clothes were already drying, and but for the few cuts and burnt right shoulder, they seemed fairly clean.

Bracingly cold bath, food and water sources acquired, and a clean inn. The young woman brightened up a bit.

“Maybe today won’t be so bad after all.”

Erin laughed to herself.

“Or not. Knock on wood.”

She turned jokingly to find a piece of wood to knock on and saw it. A huge shadow in the water. A giant, flat head and jagged teeth over a brown, spotted body that had been almost invisible as it slunk along the stream bed. And it was coming straight at—

Erin shot out of the stream like a reverse cannonball just as the fish lunged. She felt something incredibly large brush past her navel, felt the slimy, slick feeling against her skin for one heart-stopping moment—

Then it was over. Erin lay on the grass, breathing for air as she stared at the fish flopping around on the grass. She recoiled, but the giant shape was flopping now, no longer a missile of death but a confused water breather on the wrong side of the divide between land and sea.

“W—wh—”

The fish flopped towards her. Erin flopped backwards and got to her feet. It might be on land, but it had a mouth as large as her head. It was almost one-third mouth, in fact. And it had very sharp, very long teeth.

The flat, squat fish that looked like a balloon with teeth kept thrashing around. It truly was like nothing Erin had ever seen. It was far wider than any regular fish, and only a stingray was that horizontal, but this fish was hardly as elegant. It was more like a brick designed to bite as much of you apart as it could. But for her seeing it, it might have taken a huge chunk out of Erin’s side. Or her face.

Whether it was trying to still bite Erin or get back in the water was hard to tell. Either way, it wasn’t having much luck; the floppy fish was arcing its body, trying to maneuver in the air as it leapt up and down, but it wasn’t designed to move about on land and mostly stayed where it was, biting at the air helplessly.

Erin stared at it for a good minute. She covered her face and screamed into her hands for a second.

“Fish. Fish with huge teeth. I hate this world so much.”

Eventually, the fish stopped flopping around. Erin slowly edged over to the fish and stared at it. Was it dead? It didn’t seem to be breathing. It was probably dead.

She pointed a trembling finger at the fish.

“Hah! Take that!”

The fish lay there. Erin edged over and nudged it with one toe.

Instantly, the fish leapt into the air, wriggling like a snake. Its tail smacked Erin in the face as she tried to run. That hurt.

Erin fell over and landed next to the writhing fish. She pulled herself away as the gaping maw opened and closed a few feet from her face and waited until the fish slowly stopped moving again. This time, she was pretty sure it was dead.

“Four minutes. Four minutes is a long time not to be breathing, right? Okay—”

Just in case, Erin psyched herself up, ran over, and kicked the fish hard in the side.

“Aaaaaah!”

Erin hopped around in agony, clutching her foot.

“Is that thing made of rocks?”

It was like kicking a sack of cement. Not that Erin had ever kicked one, but she imagined that was what it was like. The fish had barely moved when she kicked it. It lay on the ground, jaw gaping open. It was definitely dead, now.

After a while, Erin stopped hopping around and swearing. She limped over to the fish and stared at it. It had…two eyes. Four, actually. But it had two on each side. One big eye and a smaller eye right behind it.

“Ew. Mutant fish with teeth.”

Erin stared at it for a little while longer. Her stomach rumbled.

“Right. Lunch.”

She poked the fish and tried to think of something to make. She had no fire, no other ingredients aside from blue fruit. The [Innkeeper]’s lips moved soundlessly for a second.

“…Sushi?”



——



“Discovery one: fish are heavy.”

The dead fish lay on the kitchen counter. It was dripping.

“Discovery two: kitchens have knives.”

It was a very sharp knife, too. It looked sharp, at least. Testing the sharpness with her thumb was probably a good way to lose her thumb. Erin’s arms hurt, and she smelled of fish. Oh, and her clothes weren’t dry. Lastly? She pinched at one nose with a sigh.

“Discovery three: fish stink.”

She sighed. Self-evident discoveries aside, she had no idea what to do next. Or rather, she only had a vague idea of what to do next.

She had a fish. You skinned a fish—or was that a bird?—and then you ate it. She was pretty sure about that. A fire was involved at some point, but slicing up the fish was a good first step. After all, wasn’t sashimi just raw fish? True, Erin had only eaten that once, with enough wasabi to burn her nose off, but it was worth a shot.

“And hey, I need food. So it’s time to chop stuff up.”

Still, Erin hesitated. She’d never had to cut up a fish before. How was she supposed to do it? She had no idea.

Maybe this is a moment where my new Skills could come in handy. Erin had a great idea. She lifted the knife, poked the fish in the side with it, and smiled hopefully.

“[Basic Cooking]! Give me—baked fish!”

Nothing happened. Erin hadn’t been expecting it, but she’d really, really been hoping the fish would vanish and a convenient, tasty dish would appear. She sighed.

“Huh. I guess [Basic Cooking] doesn’t work on fish.”

Or maybe not this fish. Or maybe she needed a fire? Erin gently poked it in the teeth and shuddered. Its scaly hide looked no easier to cut. But at least she had a knife.

True, she could have grabbed a bigger knife. Happily, there were several knives, ranging from one that looked like a proper cleaver to a tiny one the size of a finger. But she’d chosen a slimmer blade, because she didn’t want to wrestle with the big one. Besides, this one was sharpest, and she needed all the sharpness she could get.

Gingerly, Erin began sawing at the fish’s exterior. The knife skated over the scales without finding purchase. Grimly, Erin tried again. She sawed at the side and felt the skin begin to slowly part.

“Ew. Ew. Ew.”

At least she knew the fish bled red. That was really no comfort, actually. Erin warily held the knife as far away from her as possible while carefully pinching the fish with her other hand. She kept slicing at the scales, but she didn’t know how to do this. She didn’t cook as a rule, and fish? She’d buy it pre-filleted and deboned.

It was tough, too! The knife did not seem to cut well as she sliced horizontally with it, trying to peel the outside layer off. Erin sawed some more and managed to peel off a slice of skin. She looked into the fish’s insides and gagged.

“Oh. Oh god. Why—why is that yellow? What is that?”

She poked it with the knife. The yellow thing vibrated. A bit of pale yellow-white pus oozed from it—

Erin put down the knife and stepped into the common room to breathe for a while. When her stomach had stopped lurching, she went back.

“There is no way I’m eating that. Cooked or raw. Actually, there’s no way I’m eating any of this without a frying pan.”

She looked around. Frying pan? Check. Good. There was actually a very respectable-looking one made out of cast iron lying right on the counter. She’d seen it on the first day, and while it might need a wash, it was big enough to make an omelet. The fish would need to be in a lot of parts to fry up, though.

“Okay, okay. Let’s just…get rid of the bones? And the—the squishy stuff.”

Erin cut then hacked at the easily detachable bits. It was hard work. Nothing really wanted to come out, and the knife she’d chosen wasn’t exactly a precision tool.

“Come on. Get out of there.”

The yellow thing was stuck to the bones. She couldn’t get it out.

“Alright. Can’t go around it. Gotta go under it. Goodbye head, look out belly, here comes the knifey.”

Erin flipped the fish over and tried to cut around the other side. But again, the scales were hard to saw through. And now everything was slippery with blood and fish juice.

“Come on. Cut. Cut!”

She pressed hard with the knife. But it just wasn’t going through the skin. Annoyed, Erin pushed harder. And the knife slipped.

It happened in an instant. Her hand lost its traction, and the blade skated across the scales. It flashed left, and Erin recoiled. She yanked her hand back and felt…she saw a flash of red on the blade.

“…Huh?”

Erin blinked and held up her left hand. A gaping red line split her palm diagonally. There was no blood.

She flexed her hand once. That’s when the blood started pooling. But there was no pain. The young woman just stared at it in horror, then gazed about.

Erin looked around. Bandage? There were no bandages nearby. Or cloth.

Her hand felt…numb. Then tingly.

Bandages? Cloth? There were…curtains upstairs. Right? But they were dirty and moldy too.

The blood was dripping onto the fish and the counter. Erin wanted to wipe it away, but she was still holding her knife. And suddenly, her hand started hurting.

“…Ow.”

Erin dropped the knife.

“Ahh. Ah.”

She gripped her wrist as hard as she could, stopping the blood flow. But the pain kept coming now, on and on.

“Bandage.”

She didn’t remember leaving the kitchen, but she was back with one of the curtains from upstairs and slicing it to make a bandage as blood soaked the cloth. It was hard. She could only use one hand, and her other hand was hurting. The pain hadn’t been there at all, but with each microsecond, it was ratcheting up. The terror in her heart was being eclipsed by the need to shout. To scream.

Eventually, she wound the cloth tight and gritted her teeth as she tied a knot. The bloodstain was already spreading, though at least something was covering the wound. But it still hurt.

It hurt! Erin tried to think as she stumbled back to the common room. It wasn’t deep. Well, it was deep, but she wasn’t looking at bone. Yet it felt really deep.

“It hurts.”

She didn’t have words to describe the agony in her hand. The rest of the world was dim and unimportant compared to the pain radiating from that one point. All of her senses were focused on that place, and it was all Erin could do not to scream.

“Screaming is bad. Quiet.”

She just knew it. Screaming would make it somehow so much worse. So instead, Erin sat and gripped her wrist. The blood was dripping. It hurt.

It really hurt.



——



The sun was going down. Erin sat in the chair and stared at the puddle of blood on the floor. It wasn’t big. But every few seconds, another drop fell from the bloody bandage onto the floor.

Drip. Drip.

The pain was still there. It didn’t go away, even after this long. But it was—better. At least she could think a bit. She’d moved around, gotten another curtain and sliced it up for a second bandage. But she hadn’t wanted to change the one she was using, so she just sat.

She knew she should try to stop the bleeding. Apply pressure. But any more and she would scream. And if she started, she feared she’d never stop.

The first hour…the first hour she’d just held her wrist, mouth open, forcing herself not to scream. Hoping, praying that the agony would desist. It didn’t—it never went away. But she had eventually sat here.

Staring at her blood as it fell to the floor.

Drip.

Something smelled bad. Erin looked up. What was that smell? She wanted to ignore it, but after a few minutes, she had to stand up and go see.

It was coming from the kitchen. Erin walked in, clutching the wrist of her bad hand.

“Oh. Of course.”

The dead fish stared up at her on the cutting board drenched with her blood. It stank. At the same time, Erin’s stomach grumbled. She wasn’t hungry for fish, but she was hungry.

She didn’t want to eat, though, if that made sense. Erin walked back to the chair and sat down. As she did, she bumped the back of her legs. The knife cuts burned and hurt. A different kind of pain.

“I get it. It’s a bad day, right?”

Erin whispered. It made her feel better not to talk loudly. She was awake even though she was tired. The pain wasn’t going to let her sleep. And she was hungry, but she really didn’t want to eat.

So she sat and watched her blood fall.

Drip.



——



It was dark when the small puddle stopped growing. It soaked into the floorboards, a dark stain in the night. Erin stared at the blackness. She couldn’t sleep.

“Still hurts.”

That was—an understatement. The night was cool, even cold, but sweat was beading on her forehead. Her teeth ached from clenching, and she felt like a single line of pain was her entire being. It radiated up from her hand, and she—

Couldn’t make a sound. Just think of something else.

Erin stared at the table. She stared at the grain of the wood. Tried to think of—of—things to do? Make bandages? Find…?

No good. She couldn’t distract herself. But she had to. Her eyes rolled in her head. Couldn’t she fall unconscious from the pain? If only.

She had no strength to stand. It hurt too much. She couldn’t think—the only things that came to her were the most basic instincts. She had to think of something else, though.

So Erin began to whisper. She forced herself to—remember. How did it go?

“Pawn…pawn to E4.”

She rested her injured hand on the table. It flared once in pain and then resumed throbbing. Her other hand traced a square, and her eyes darted over the empty table. Her eyes were watery with pain, but she didn’t need to see in the pitch blackness. She knew it by heart.

Her fingers closed, as if holding something small and delicate. She even moved her left hand, tracing it across the table. Yes. That was how it went. What came next?

“Pawn to E5. Pawn to F4. Pawn captures F4—King’s Gambit Accepted. Bishop to C4, queen to H4. Check. Bishop’s Gambit. King to F1, pawn to B5. Bryan Counter-gambit. Bishop captures B5, knight moves to F6. Knight moves to F3…”

The pained whisper went on and on, until her throat dried and she kept up in her mind. First one game, then another. Erin kept talking to herself, kept playing long into the night. Alone, in the blackness of the inn as the shutters rattled every now and then and faint peeks of moonlight shone through.

A line of agony trying to divide her in half as she clung to the only thing she knew. Whispering the moves of a famous chess game, an immortal game, into the silence to distract herself.

But the pain in her hand never stopped.

It just kept hurting.

And hurting.





1.04


Erin woke up suddenly. Her hand was burning.

Though her head felt like fog, she couldn’t fall back asleep. Instead, Erin just sat and cradled her hand again. She couldn’t move it or the pain would get worse, but sleeping or relaxing were beyond her as well. She could only sit in agony.

Bit by bit, the pain faded away. Maybe it was her waking up, or maybe she just got numb.

“Either way.”

Erin got up. She still held her hand and took great care not to flex it at all. It was…aching didn’t even begin to describe it. It was just pain, all the way through. And it wasn’t stopping.

But at the same time, she was ravenous. And for a little bit, that overrode her pain.

Slowly, very slowly, Erin hobbled around the inn. She grabbed the blue fruits with her good hand and began chomping them down one at a time. She was so hungry she ate four before she knew it, and then polished off two more as she sat at a table.

She would have sat there forever. Getting up wasn’t worth the effort, but a higher power called to her. It spoke in words she could not ignore.

Bathroom.

Erin sighed and put her head on the table. But the longer she sat the more uncomfortable it became. Still, the pain in her hand fought off the need to go relieve herself for the better part of an hour. When Erin finally stood up, she marched to the inn’s door and kicked it open. She’d go do her business in a random valley and then wash her hands at the stream. Hygiene and all that.

Erin made it five steps out of the inn before she reluctantly turned back and closed the door behind her. She doubted the Goblins would come back, but—safety. That done, she went about the business of doing her business.



——



It took nearly two hours before Erin came back. That was mainly due to her getting lost. Somehow, the stream seemed to be in a different spot than she’d remembered, and when she’d completed her task, she wasn’t able to retrace her steps.

The one benefit of finding the stream was being able to dunk her hand in the cold water to reduce the pain slightly. But she’d been watching for fish in the water, and all she wanted was to go back and sleep again.

When she did finally see the welcome sight of the inn, Erin could have cried with relief. All she wanted was to sit and suffer in peace, and the open door welcomed her in.

Absentmindedly, Erin walked through the door and closed it behind her. Then she went back and sat down at the table. Only then did she feel the wet fabric clinging to her hand and look down. She looked at the dirty, bloody bandage now sodden with water. She wasn’t a medical doctor. Or a doctor. Or even very familiar with first aid, but she didn’t think that was healthy.

“Damn it.”



——



“Ow. Owch. Ow.”

Every time Erin peeled off a bit of the bandage, part of her skin and a lot of blood went with it. Some of it was dried blood. Some of it was not.

After she’d gotten half of the bandage off, Erin had to stop. The pain was too much. And the bandage was stuck to her skin. But having a half-peeled bandage was worse. Erin couldn’t stop picking at it.

“Maybe I can cut the rest off somehow.”

Erin went to the kitchen. There were certainly sharp things in there. Like knives.

“Not knives.”

So were there scissors? They didn’t seem very medieval, but who knew? Erin decided to go through the cupboards in the kitchen again. She had no energy for the outside, but she couldn’t sleep and she’d only opened about half that first night.

This time, no longer panicking, Erin did a systematic search of every drawer and cupboard in the kitchen. The dust that poured out made her sneeze and cough, but she did find some basic cooking utensils like metal spatulas, a drawer full of tarnished silverware, and even some plates. The cupboards held a lot of things that Erin only vaguely understood.

Cooking implements, she suspected, like some weird metal grater with a wood handle. Did you…press down from the top? She found a corkscrew, the tip rusted, a collection of moldy cup holders, and a bunch of other culinary knickknacks. There were a lot of them. And that was…strange. Erin tried to make sense of it out loud since her inner thoughts were mostly devoted to not crying in pain.

“I’ve seen old kitchens in castles. I thought drawers and that kind of stuff only came later. This is, um, steel. Or at least iron. It looks like steel. Did they have a lot of steel in the medieval ages? Knights in armor, duh. But when were cheese graters invented? Is this place in the Dark Ages or past that? And can I get a light bulb somewhere around here?”

Erin grumbled as she searched with one hand. She threw open another cupboard and stopped. She stared at the pristine interior and the perfectly fresh, perfectly preserved…

“What the—”

Food. Food was sitting in the cupboard. A gleaming, single link of a sausage, a glass jar filled with white powder, and another container with a knife stuck in the little opening—

Erin had to rub her eyes with her good hand. Then she slapped herself to make sure she wasn’t dreaming. But when she looked again, it was still there.

“Is that…flour?”

Erin opened the jar and poked a finger at the powder. It felt—real. And fresh. Or, at least, it didn’t feel like white mold and dust, which is what it should have been. Erin drew her finger back, shaking, and stared at the white granules on her finger. She sniffed and nearly sneezed again—no clues from that aside from a lack of much to smell.

“It could be flour. Or—alternatively, it could be cocaine.”

She tried to smile, but her hand hurt too much.

“…It’s probably flour.”

But was it any good? Erin stared at the bag and tried to remember how long things were supposed to stay good. Probably not that long, even in glass jars. They had blown glass in this world?

No, focus on the flour. And the sausage? Erin stared at it. It looked like one of those things you saw in old-timey kitchens. Just a…her mouth watered.

There was no way that was good. Not unless someone had put this here right before she arrived. And if that were the case…no.

No, there was something odd about the cupboard. Unlike every other one, there was no dust or spiderwebs, and it had seemed in the best condition of the lot, despite the fraying wood. It smelled like, well, a cupboard, and the food smelled like it was edible.

It had to be a trick, though. Erin sighed and pulled the jar of flour out anyways. Might as well check. But then she caught sight of the pot with the knife in it and opened it. Erin placed it on the counter, removed the lid, and here was another surprise.

Erin’s eyes narrowed, and she frowned hard.

“That’s butter.”

There was no mistaking it. And it wasn’t just butter either. Erin was used to the nice, square sticks of butter that turned soft and spreadable in the sun. This…was more like a pot of butter. Yellow, swirled about, with a knife stuck in it, gleaming and ready to be applied to a bit of bread or something nice. Erin’s stomach rumbled at it, and she was almost tempted to eat it as-is. However—

“That’s not right.”

Erin stared at the butter. It was a golden yellow, fresh. Like someone had thawed a stick of butter just now. Same with the sausage and flour—well, the flour was just flour.

Yet everything else? Erin stared around the kitchen. Dust and cobwebs seemed to make up most of the room. She stared at the floor she had yet to sweep.

“How long does it take for dust to get two inches deep?”

Five months? Two years? Five years? Either way, Erin was pretty sure butter didn’t last that long. She craned her neck around, suddenly feeling a prickle of suspicion on the back of her neck.

“Is someone messing with me?”

Erin glanced around. Could someone have put the food in here? But no, her footsteps were the first to disturb the dust. So then how…?

Her eyes flicked back to the cupboards. At last, something bright caught her attention. It was inlaid around the edges of the cupboard, on the interior door, which was why she hadn’t seen it, but a silver glimmer finally caught her eye.

“Oh. Oh!”

Erin Solstice stared at a line of glowing, incomprehensible symbols drawn along the edge of the cupboard. They looked like someone had painted them there with the most delicate brush and silver paint. They were nonsensical: circles and connected shapes that almost looked like letters or—

It hurt her head just to focus on them, and the longer she stared, the brighter the runes seemed to grow. It was—Erin brushed at the inscriptions and traced them around the edge of the entire pantry. She didn’t know what they meant, but she was convinced this wasn’t just random art or even a fanciful attempt at the real stuff. This meant something, and the hair on the back of her neck rose as she touched one beautiful sigil.

“Wow. Magic.”

She stared at the runes, entranced. Then a thought struck her, and she opened the other cupboards. Could it be that…?

“Here. Here…they’re everywhere.”

Around the edges of each cupboard were the same small etchings of runes. Erin traced them with her fingertip, but unlike the cupboard with all the good food, these ones weren’t glowing. The paint was flaking, and beyond the glow, some quality had been lost. She noticed a break in the wood along one solid line of the magic writing and took a wild guess.

“Huh. I guess it wore off. Or maybe they broke somehow? I wonder what they’re made of.”

She went back to the enchanted cupboard in awe. But now curiosity was engulfing her, so she gingerly touched the runes on the cupboard door.

…It felt like painted wood, but Erin had to believe it was something more. Was it just paint? Could you re-draw this and get more magic? Experimentally, she scraped at the runes with one fingernail. A bit of it flaked off onto her finger.

“Silver? Or something glowy.”

It was fragile, too. The young woman hesitated. Was that supposed to happen? She poked a little harder, not really thinking, just curious.

The old wood of the cupboard was beyond delicate with age. Erin’s finger jabbed the lip of the wood, and a splinter of it came away. Just a thin fragment of wood. And silver, glowing magic.

The fragment of wood disrupted the glowing line traced around the cupboard. The glowing symbols flickered—and as Erin watched in horror, they faded away.

“No, nonono—”

The sliver of wood dropped to the ground, and Erin stared at the piece then tried to replace it.

“Don’t do this to me! No—I just—”

She tried to press it back into place, and the wood cracked, and more runes flaked away and drifted downwards in a little spiral of silver dust and wood. Erin stood there, mouth open in horror.

“Oh you’ve got to be shi—”

Erin pulled back too far as she stood up, overbalanced, and fell backwards. She didn’t hit the ground too hard, but her bad hand smacked the ground. Instantly, Erin grabbed her hand and cradled it, but she could feel the blood running again. She curled up into a ball and stayed there for a long time.

“It’s not fair. It’s not fair.”

Erin looked up after the pain faded a bit. She saw a dark cupboard. When she got up, the food was still the same, but the magic had gone.

Dully, she stared at the now dark symbols. Dead. Just like that. The food? Still fresh. But it wouldn’t be fresh any longer. And the magical cupboard was dead. Forever.

Erin rubbed at her eyes. She wasn’t crying. But her eyes stung a bit. That was all.

That was all.



——



Erin sat at the table in the common room and talked to herself. It was mainly to avoid thinking about pain or her own stupidity.

“True, you’ve gotta leave stuff behind when you leave. Can’t carry everything. But you had good food still here. And more, in those other cupboards. And here’s a kitchen full of supplies…how expensive are good, sharp knives?”

Erin flexed her hand and winced again. Very sharp knives.

“No one leaves that behind. So why would anyone…?”

It was a bad thought to have. Erin suddenly felt very uneasy. The hair on her neck began prickling, and her stomach began doing pushups.

“Question. How did Mr. Skeleton upstairs die?”

Her spine tingled.

“Maybe that’s a bad question.”

But once asked, it wasn’t easy to get rid of. Erin tried to ignore it. She stared at the dried blood on her hand, ate another blue fruit, but the thought lingered. Eventually, she couldn’t bear it any longer. She stood up.

“Upstairs. Fine. Hello darkness my old enemy.”

It wasn’t nearly as hard going up the stairs. Now that she knew what was in every room, going down the dark hallways wasn’t scary. But going in the last room? That was very scary.

Erin took a few deep breaths before she opened the door. Her palm was sweaty on the doorknob.

“Am I afraid of dead people? Well yeah. But they can’t hurt me. Zombies can, but normal dead people can’t. It’s just a skeleton. I can take a look for signs of—of death, and then I’ll go sleep. Good plan. Let’s do it.”

She opened the door and stared inside. Then she ran back and started opening the other doors on the top floor, slamming into each room before running to the next. But what she sought was not there.

Slowly, Erin walked back to the room at the far end and looked inside. A sagging bed, a small table, a shuttered window. Nothing else. Erin whispered into the silence.

“It’s gone.”



——



The skeleton was gone. Erin was sure of it. It wasn’t anywhere in the inn that she’d looked, and she’d combed both the top and bottom floor thoroughly. And the worst part about losing a dead body was wondering where it went.

Erin sat in the common room. Actually, she sat in a corner of it, her back to the wall as her eyes darted around the room. It wasn’t that she was waiting for a pile of bones to fall from the ceiling. But…she would prefer to know where said bones had gone.

“Okay. Okay. What’s the problem? It was just a skeleton. Just a spooky, dead thing. And even if it did move—somehow, where would it go?”

She didn’t know why she was whispering to herself. It just made her feel…well, it didn’t make her feel better, but it felt appropriate. It was getting dark. It was nearly night. In the circumstances, being loud didn’t feel like the smart thing to do.

And the skeleton might hear her.

“No, no. That’s impossible. It’s not here. It’s somewhere else. Besides, where could it hide? I checked all the rooms upstairs. So where could it be?”

The…cupboards?

Her eyes darted towards the kitchen. No. It couldn’t be. She’d checked.

What about underneath the floorboards? Or on the roof?

Erin kept very still and listened. Nothing. That was good, right?

But skeletons don’t need to breathe. They don’t need to move until you’re asleep. And then…

Enough. Erin shook her head. It was all in her head. There had to be a perfectly good reason for a corpse to disappear suddenly—

What about the walls?

Erin refused to turn her head. She was just being paranoid. Which was a good thing. Because it could be anywhere. She could just see herself, asleep, as a skeleton tip-toed out of the darkness, a knife in hand and—

She wrenched herself out of that idea. Skeletons didn’t do that, she had to believe. It was more reasonable to assume someone had taken it. The skeleton was not her imagination. Someone had taken it. Why?

“Because it was valuable? Because skeletons are so useful, sure. Maybe the Goblins did it. Can’t you eat bones? Or—someone else?”

That was just as inconceivable. Okay, maybe someone, something took the skeleton. But why? And when?

Erin’s mind suddenly flashed back to when she’d returned that morning. Hadn’t the inn’s door been open? She hadn’t noticed at the time, but she remembered closing it as she left. She didn’t remember having to open it when she got back.

Her skin crawled. The inn suddenly felt a lot less safe.

But it was just her imagination. She had an overactive imagination. If she went to sleep, all would be well. All she had to do was close her eyes, and when she woke up, all would be well. There was nothing to worry about. Erin couldn’t even hear anything except the rapid beating of her heart and the creaking.

Creaking. A footstep.

Erin sat bolt upright. Her heart felt like it was about to stop from sheer overwork. Her eyes darted to the ceiling.

Something was up there.

She heard it moving about. Maybe if she’d been more relaxed she might never have noticed the faint creaks and groans of floorboards as something crept around upstairs. And judging by the sounds…

Erin tracked the progress of the creature above her. It was moving to the stairwell.

Slowly, Erin clenched her bad hand to avoid screaming. The pain as her sliced hand throbbed and started to bleed grounded her. Silently, she stood up.

The knife was on the table. Erin held it in her good hand and moved around. The stairwell was on the right side of the room. Anyone coming down wouldn’t be able to see her if she were in the rightmost corner.

Skirting the chairs and tables, Erin made her way over and crouched down. The handle of the kitchen knife was slippery in her hand with sweat. Her other hand was slippery with her blood. She gazed at the blade of the knife. It was very sharp.

The creaking stopped for a moment as the intruder reached the top of the stairs. Erin waited. It would come down. And when it did, she’d get one chance to attack first.

Attack first? Am I some kind of hero?

No. New plan. The instant Erin saw what it was, she was running for her life. But she had to see what it was first.

The skeleton popped into her head. Was it that? Or was it the creature that had stolen its bones? Was it some kind of parasitic creature that lived in dead corpses—or a gaunt nightprowler that ate the marrow of the deceased?

Please let it just be a skeleton.

The monster started descending the stairs. Quietly. Slowly. Even though Erin was listening, she barely heard the sound it made. She tried to guess how far down it was. Halfway. Two-thirds. A few steps left.

Something left the last step and walked into the common room. Erin didn’t breathe. She didn’t move, or even blink.

Slowly, the creature stepped closer. Erin squinted and gasped as it came into view. Then she stood up and sighed.

“Oh. Just a Goblin.”

The short green creature whirled around in surprise as Erin stood up with a sigh. It immediately crouched, its sharp dagger held in a fighting stance. It snarled at her.

She snarled back.



——



The rest of the Goblin ambush party of seven waited outside of the inn, keen ears straining for sound. Each one was a seasoned warrior—at least by the standards of their small clan. They were all armed with the best weaponry available. The most dangerous among them had shortswords that were only half-covered in rust. And they were awaiting the signal.

The inn’s door flew open. The Goblins looked up. They expected the Human female to run out of it, screaming and preferably bleeding. At worst, they expected their comrade to be running out, her fast on his heels. They readied their weapons.

And ducked as a body flew over their heads.

“Go to hell!”

The Human female slammed the door shut.

The Goblins stared at the closed door of the inn. They stared at the barely recognizable face of the unconscious Goblin and then exchanged a look. Then they quickly picked up their fallen comrade and legged it back into the night.



——



The young woman’s fight with the Goblins did not go unnoticed. The little Goblin that had crept after the attack group seeking revenge for yesterday witnessed their second embarrassing flight.

She almost liked the Human for beating the one who tried to creep into the second floor. She hit him a lot. She thought the warriors wouldn’t tell the Chieftain about this, either.

However, the littlest Goblin didn’t know that while she was staring at the inn and creeping back with the warriors, she was being watched.



——



A crouched figure stared at both the Goblins and the fleeting image he had seen of the person in the inn. So there was someone there. Of all the luck! It was a perfect place, but he had no idea whether she was alone or dangerous in and of herself.

She certainly seemed fearless of Goblins, though that wasn’t saying much. But what was she doing out there?

Well, she didn’t have anything else to steal that he’d seen. Not that he’d had much time. He decided to keep an eye on the place. But the growling of his stomach almost alerted the small Goblin. She stopped, staring around, and he ducked back into cover.

Damnation! She couldn’t see him, but he decided to return to his lair, his abode. His sanctuary, yes. He might not have gotten anything but bones, but those bones would help him finish his latest project.

Oh, yes indeed.





1.05


Erin woke up with her back against the inn’s front door. Her neck was aching, and her hand was burning. It was morning.

“Ow.”

She held her hand. It was hurting—

“Feels like it’s worse than yesterday. Which is probably my imagination.”

She sat, cradling her hand for a full minute. Then she remembered why she was sitting there and shot to her feet.

“Skeleton? Goblins.”

Where was it? Erin hobbled over to a table. There. Two daggers on the tabletop. She looked around at the windows—some even had furniture piled up to make sure nothing could get in. And she’d been up all night, waiting to hear anything trying to come in. But no other Goblins had, and the other one had left its dagger as well, albeit unwillingly. Erin mumbled to herself as she poked one of the hilts with a finger.

“At this rate, I’m going to start a collection.”

At least it proved she hadn’t been dreaming. Well, until she’d fallen asleep. But nothing had killed her, so Erin tried to put the disappearing corpse out of her mind.

“No skeleton? No problem. I hope.”

She sighed and then sniffed.

“What’s that smell?”

Something smelled really bad. And it was coming from the kitchen. The instant Erin opened the door, she groaned aloud.

The fish lay on the cutting board, covered in dry blood and reeking in the sunlight. It stank. Actually, it smelled worse than that.

“This. This is disgusting.”

Erin stared at the fish for a few more seconds. She had absolutely no desire to touch it. On the other hand…

A few black things crawled out of the fish’s mouth. Erin stared at the small things, gagged, and then ran outside before she hurled.

That was the start of her day.



——



How did you get rid of a fish? Erin put it outside on the ground and stared at it.

“I could bury it. If I had a shovel. And I could burn it. If I had a way to make fire. Or…I could leave it over there.”

She picked it up and walked for about fifteen minutes before she was sure she was far enough away from the inn. Then, Erin unceremoniously dumped the rotting fish off the cutting board.

That was a mistake.

As the fish hit the ground, it exploded. Something inside of it broke or squished, and suddenly a host of little black and green insects exited the fish’s body from every orifice. Erin took one look, screamed, and ran. She was getting good at that.



——



It took her a long time before she found the courage to return. And even then, it was just to run in, grab the cutting board, and leg it to the stream.

“Ew, ew, ew.”

Erin thrust the plank of wood in the water and watched fish guts and insects sweep away into the current. It wasn’t the dead fish she objected to. Well, not as much as the live bugs that clung stubbornly to the wood. They were small, and she wasn’t sure if she was relieved or further disgusted to see they were flies, not beetles or anything worse.

Big flies, though, with fat, glowing abdomens. Like—disgusting fireflies, lurid green instead of nice yellow. Not that fireflies were that cute up close either. Erin pointed at the last straggler refusing to be pulled off by the water.

“You. Get off.”

The tenacious fly seemed to have the strength of ten bugs, because it refused to let the current drag it off. Erin lifted the board a bit and realized this fly had other odd qualities. Something about its head was triangular, and yes, that glowing abdomen was far bigger than a firefly’s. It even looked slightly…liquid, and the bloated insect was like nothing she had ever seen before on Earth.

“Another weird creature. Wonderful.”

Reluctantly, she looked closer. Know thy enemy, right? She supposed she should also know her bug.

“That’s definitely a bug. And it’s really ugly. If I could take it to a scientist back home, I bet I’d be famous. Since I can’t—go away, would you?”

She dunked the board and shook it underwater. Swish. Swish. The bug clung to the wet wood despite Erin’s best attempts to shake it off. Then she noticed another detail.

“…Why’s it got four legs? I thought bugs had six.”

It was also segmented in two places, as if the bug had people-legs. That was weird and disconcerting. And still, it refused to let go of the wood, fanning its wings futilely and trying to fly off. Probably to join its many siblings still buzzing around the dead fish’s corpse. Well, Erin wasn’t going to bother the rest of them, but this one? This one had a date with the water. It just refused to go.

Annoyed at this resistance, Erin finally pulled the cutting board out of the water. The insect fanned its wings as she stared at it. It was really mostly like a firefly, except that its backside was glowing green. Better than a cockroach, but there was only one way to deal with bugs like that.

Erin curled her finger and gave the bug a damn good flick.

It exploded.

The insect’s green abdomen burst into a splatter of green liquid as the rest of it flew off into the stream. Erin blinked as the green liquid covered the cutting board and splashed into the water.

Some of it landed on Erin’s arm. Instantly, both the board and her arm began to smoke and dissolve.

“Ahh! Owowowowowow!”

She plunged her arm into the water. It was an instinctive reaction, but it made the pain vanish. Still, Erin frantically scrubbed at the spot until all of the burning pain had gone. She looked at the cutting board and stared as the green liquid ate into the wood until she dunked it into the water. Then she stared at her burnt skin, and the cutting board, eaten away by…

Erin turned her head and backed away as the rest of the glowing insects buzzed around the dead fish.

“Acid flies. Okay, that’s completely wrong.”



——



Her skin was red and sore from the brief contact with acid, but she was fine. Nevertheless, she washed both her body and the cutting board until she felt completely clean. This was less fun, because Erin was also watching out for strange shadows in the water.

“Great. My hand hurts, and now my arm hurts.”

Erin stared at the dead fish as she walked back to the inn. The fish’s body was swarming with those little acid flies. They were probably laying eggs in it or something equally fun.

Briefly, Erin considered dragging the fish into the stream and letting all the buggers drown. Then she considered what would happen if all the flies landed on her and exploded.

“Right. Well, there’s only one thing to do in a situation like this.”

Erin raised first one, then both her middle fingers. Her injured left hand hurt like fire, but it still made her feel better.

“That’s for all of you.”

Then she went back to the inn. There was only one good thing in the world right now. And that was food.



——



“I really should have brought a bucket.”

Erin stared at the ingredients lined up on the kitchen counter. Her stomach was rumbling, and she was in the mood for food. But she didn’t really want another breakfast, lunch, and dinner of blue fruit. Today, she was in the mood for bread. Freshly baked bread. And that lovely bit of sausage.

She’d been holding off on eating either, mainly due to the pain and infestation of her kitchen, but Erin was relieved to find the bugs hadn’t gone for the good food, instead preferring the fresh, rotting corpse of the fish. So she had ingredients! Enough to make bread!

Unfortunately, that required water. And Erin really didn’t want to walk to the stream and back with a heavy bucket. But she needed water. She knew that. Somehow.

Was it instinct? Erin frowned and knocked on her skull. She had never made food, not really. Well, she’d made Mac and Cheese and instant ramen, but that didn’t count. And that went for microwaves and ovens too. So why did she know that to make bread she needed flour, oil, salt, sugar, yeast, and some water? It had to be magic.

Or a skill.

“[Basic Cooking], huh?”

Erin stared at the washed cutting board. Yes, all the ingredients were here. It made sense; this was a kitchen. Kitchens had ingredients. Therefore, she could make bread. Or dough. To make bread, she’d have to bake it in an oven. Handily, this kitchen had an old oven that Erin’s instincts told her she could use. But to use the oven, she needed fire.

She had no idea how to make a fire.

Whatever new ability she had to make food, it did not extend to making fire. Erin stared at the empty fireplace in the oven and thought.

“Sticks. You hit sticks together. Or rocks.”

She looked around. She had wood. There were lots of chairs and tables. What she didn’t have were matches. Or a lighter. Or a can full of gasoline and a flamethrower.

Erin went back to the kitchen. There had to be something to start fires in there. How else would you cook things?

“Right. Rummage time. I know I saw a shelf full of weird stuff somewhere…”

She went back through the shelves. In her first search through the kitchen, she’d put everything vaguely useful or non-rusted in the cupboard next to the food.

“Let’s see. Frying pan? No. Tongs? No. A saw? Why does a kitchen need a saw?”

Erin set the small handsaw aside and squinted. Behind that was something she hadn’t quite figured out. Well, two things—a rock and something else. Something weird.

“Is that…a horseshoe?”

No. It was way too small to be a horseshoe and the wrong shape. Unless this world had really weird, small horses that was. But even then, why have horseshoes in a kitchen?

“Unless they ate horses.”

Erin stared at the horseshoe-thing. She stared at the rock. Slowly, she slid the rock along the fire striker and watched sparks fly.

“Huh. So that’s what flint and steel looks like. It actually does look like Minecraft!”

Erin paused. She sighed and slapped herself gently.

“I’m an idiot.”



——



Flint and steel was actually pretty fun to use. So long as you didn’t burn down the flammable, wooden inn around you by accident.

Erin peered in the large fireplace and fumbled with the flint and steel again.

“Dried grass…check. Broken chair…check. Fire?”

She slid the flint across the steel quickly and flinched as the sparks flew.

“Ow. Hot!”

The shower of sparks descended on the dry grass like a swarm of angry fireflies. And the tinder caught fire in places, and the fire grew.

Erin held her breath. Then she exhaled, blowing at the small flames like she’d seen television campers do.

“Damn. It went out.”

She struck the flint and steel again. This time, she let the fires grow a bit and did not blow on them. Slowly, the small fires grew. She fed the small flames pieces of wood and grinned.

“Fire! Call me Prometheus…Promethea.”

The warmth on her front became a little too hot, so Erin scooted back, but she was grinning. Well, she was grinning until she sat on her bad hand.

“Okay. Pain. But now I can make bread! I’ve got all the ingredients. Right? Right. I just need flour, yeast, butter, a bit of salt and sugar and—”

Erin sighed.

“Oh yeah. Water. Great. Well, I can just go out and get some. It’s not like there’s a time limit or anything—”

She looked back at the fire she’d just started. It was already starting to go out.

“Dammit.”



——



There had been no light yesterday or the day before. During the daytime, it was conceivable they might have seen something from the walls, but no one had looked that far expecting to find anything but monsters or Goblins.

However, by daylight, the faint trickle of smoke was possibly, possibly visible. And if the wind blew just right, the keenest of noses might pick it up.

Or it could just be their imagination. However, the watchers on the walls dutifully reported it to their superior.

“It could just be nothing, Senior [Guardswoman].”

The woman frowned and sniffed to pick up the faint smell. There were countless scents around her, and this was like a needle in a haystack, but she agreed.

“It does look like—smoke. Maybe it’s a traveller. Or bandits. Or whoever’s been robbing the farmsteads.”

“Or Goblins. I’ve seen them creeping around now and then. Do we send out a patrol?”

She thought about it.

“Not a full one, and that’s not our call. I’ll tell the Captain. You just keep an eye on it. I think she’ll put our best patrol on it. Punishment detail for breaking all those windows yesterday.”

Her voice was laden with irony, and the other person on the wall grinned with idle glee.

“Ooh. I’d hate to be Relc. Klbkch didn’t do anything, though. But he’s…eugh.”

The woman glanced over her shoulder and reached out to slap a helmet.

“That’s Senior Guardsman Klbkch to you, rookie. Send a street runner to tell the Captain.”

“Yes, [Guardswoman] Beilmark.”



——



In the end, Erin let the fire burn while she went to get water. The fireplace was stone, and the kitchen was stone. The odds of a stray spark walking all the way to the common room was remote. Still, she felt uneasy.

“This is how it starts, right? You leave the fireplace on while you go on a vacation for a few days, and the next thing you know, your inn’s burned down. A classic cautionary tale.”

Erin sighed as she walked along. She wondered again how much trouble she was really in. After all, she had just started a fire, true, but that was pretty basic even for primeval Humans. What could—

A patch of green moved in the grass ahead of her. Erin stared at it. Was it part of the grass? It raised its head and stared back. It wasn’t the grass at all. It was—

Something exploded out of the grass. Erin screamed, flailed wildly with her bucket, and fell over. The gigantic bird with leathery wings and a beak longer than her arm took off into the sky with an ear-piercing screech. She caught a flash of scales, as green as the grass it had blended in with, and the long head and beaked teeth? The young woman gaped upwards.

“Oh. Oh wow.”

Erin sat on the ground and stared.

“Is that a…pterodactyl? No way.”

It looked like it. And while Erin was only really seeing its rapidly disappearing backside, the bird had a certain…non-feathery quality to it. However, where the ancient dinosaurs Erin had seen in museum pictures were brown and plain, this bird had been a light green with red markings along its head and beak and the tips of its wings.

“Camouflaged dinosaur birds. Now I’ve really seen everything.”

Erin shook her head and got back up. She brushed off her dirty t-shirt and jeans.

“Gotta wash these sometime. But that means I’ll be walking around naked. Is that an issue? And what’s that smell?”

Something smelled truly terrible. Erin covered her nose and frowned. She cast around for the source of the smell. It was on the ground somewhere. She walked ten steps and found a nest. Erin stared down at a neat ring of dirt, trampled grass, and stones. A nest on the ground? But then—she didn’t see many trees nearby, and the only other place would be those cliffs.

“Huh. I guess without many trees birds get lazy. But what a big nest. And what’s that inside—”

Erin took one look inside the nest and covered her mouth. She gagged and took a few deep breaths.

“Okay. At least I know where all the normal birds go. Inside the dinosaur-birds.”

Averting her eyes from the grisly remains, Erin turned to go. She took two steps and tripped.

“Ow.”

She got up, cradled her injured hand a bit, and wished for the world to explode. Or just her. Then she squatted down to look at what she’d tripped over. She saw a second nest, this one much cleaner and smaller. And it was filled with big, round, pale…

“Eggs?”



——



Buckets could hold things. Ideally they held water, but they could also hold eggs. They could also hold eggs in water.

It was still a pain to haul the bucket across the grasslands, though. Erin puffed and huffed and kept up a running stream of complaints as she lugged the full water bucket along.

“People used to do this every day? This is why plumbing was invented, you know. Who puts a stream so far from an inn? What happened to a good well?”

She kept grumbling until she reached the inn. Once there, Erin had to lean against the door and pant like a dog for a while before she felt better. She noticed a sign hanging next to her nose and squinted at the faded lettering.

“Huh. ‘Closed?’ Is that English?”

It was English. Slightly stylistic, each letter carefully traced in black paint, but Erin understood it nonetheless.

“Huh. So people speak English here. Good to know!”

Then she frowned at another word painted right below it. Not English. The lettering was far more curvy, and based on her limited knowledge of Earth’s languages—it looked completely unique.

“Hold on. What’s this word?”

It looked…odd. This was clearly an open-closed sign. Erin could tell because it was on the front door, and because she flipped it over and, just as expected, it said ‘Open’ on the back.

And there was a second word right below it, in that other language. Erin had no idea what it meant; it was foreign to her. But if she had to guess?

It probably said ‘Open’ too. In a different language. Just like signs back home. And that meant—Erin felt a shiver run down her spine.

That meant there were two languages here. Two sets of writing, at any rate. Furthermore, it confirmed Erin’s suspicions.

“This was an inn once. But someone abandoned it. And they left a lotta useful stuff behind.”

She tapped her lips thoughtfully and narrowed her eyes at the hanging sign. The rope was frayed and worn, but it was still in pretty good shape.

“…Well, finders keepers.”

Erin kicked open the door to the inn and dragged the bucket inside. But she paused and stepped out to look at the sign.

It was a sudden whim. Erin flipped the sign over so it read ‘Open’.

“Now, where can I get a piece of chalk and write ‘no Goblins allowed’?”

Well, that was a question for later. Right now, Erin was more concerned about the precious water. She had the water. She had dragged the water very painfully all the way here. Now she had to find a place to store said water. The bucket was nice, but it was also sort of small and definitely not useful as a long-term container. It was leaking a bit. So where else could she put it?

Erin wandered into the kitchen.

“Well, here’s a cauldron.”

It was actually a pot, but it looked like a cauldron. It was in fact both things at once. The point was that it could store water. Unfortunately, that meant the cauldron had to be cleaned first.

Erin tried to use as little water as possible. But the pot was large, filled with dust, and the bucket was finite. She eventually ran out of water and had to make another trip back. And then another.

When the cauldron was finally full of water and clean enough to hold said water, Erin was ready to kill something. Like eggs. She stared longingly at the fresh sausage, but she shook her head.

“No. No. You deserve at least a sandwich. Or eggs and sausage.”

That would make it taste so much better. So Erin decided to commit. She tromped back into the kitchen and stared at the grey embers in the fireplace. The fire was long dead. Erin groaned and then scowled. She pointed at the embers accusatorially.

“I’ll deal with you later. For now, I need dough.”

Dough was easy. It was just mixing stuff, and Erin had plenty of stuff to mix. But an idea struck her as she stared at her ingredients.

Bread took a while to bake. Bread needed to rise and do all kinds of complicated yeasty-stuff according to her [Basic Cooking] skill. And to be fair, that was about all she could make with the ingredients at hand. Not much you could do with a bit of flour, right? But eggs? Eggs changed everything.

Erin stared at the flour. She stared at the butter and salt. Then she stared at the eggs. Her eyes narrowed.

“Forget bread. It’s pasta time.”



——



The mixing bowl was full of flour, a dash of salt, some water, and butter. Oil would be best, but Erin didn’t have oil, so butter would do. She grinned. This was easy. Then she cracked the egg.

A large, glistening yolk fell into the bowl. The eggs of the giant dino-birds were about three times bigger than normal bird eggs. That could make a lot of pasta. But there was just one thing different about these eggs.

“Oh. Oh god. Why are there red lines—?”

Erin covered her mouth.

“It was alive. There was a baby inside.”

Her stomach lurched. But there was nothing to throw up. Erin took a few deep breaths and tried to think.

“Right. Normal eggs actually hatch. Right. This isn’t a store, so of course they’d be living—but they must be new eggs. Not full of half-born chickens, right?”

She stared at the rest of the eggs. Right?



——



Erin wiped her mouth as she kneaded the dough. She hadn’t thrown up. But her stomach was still a bit queasy from all the killing she’d done. If that was the word for it.

“Sorry, baby dino-birdlings. But I really need to eat. And you look nice and doughy right now.”

She punched the dough ball gently. The kneading was done. It was time to roll it and slice it into nice, pasta-sized shapes.

To her credit, Erin barely hesitated when she grabbed the sharp knife again. But she did take the time to wash the blood off before she began slicing. And though it took her a bit longer to cut everything since she worked with one hand and tried to keep all her digits out of the knife’s path, she eventually had a pile of long stringy noodles ready to be boiled.

Erin held the first batch of raw noodles over the boiling water in the pot.

“Double double, boil and trouble…into the pot you go.”

The noodles fell in with a large splash. Erin yelped and jumped away.

“Hot!”

When she was finished calling herself an idiot, Erin sat back and waited. The noodles wouldn’t take that long. Then she could add some more butter, a little more salt, and feast. It was a good plan.

“Too bad I don’t have something refreshing to drink as well. A nice glass of juice would go down great. But y’know, it’s not like I…can…”

Erin stood up. She walked back into the common room and looked around.

The pile of blue fruits was right where she had left them. Erin’s eyes narrowed as she looked at them. She stroked her chin in thought.

“Blue juice?”

She shook her head.

“Nah. Blue fruit juice? That’s more like it.”



——



It was a messy process, peeling each blue fruit and then pulping the fruit into a mush. And then of course there was the mandatory trip to the stream with the bucket in order to get enough water to add to the mixture, not to mention to clean the glasses, plates, and silverware. By the time she’d made her umpteenth trip to fetch water, Erin’s arms felt like they were about to fall off. But that was okay, because she now had a drink.

“Mm! Sweet! This stuff’s like syrup! Chunky syrup! Or…a smoothie.”

Erin put the pitcher of blue fruit juice in the common room and checked on the noodles. She didn’t know how long to cook them, but she’d been taking out a strand or two every few minutes to make sure it was good. At last, she decided it was ready.

“Hm. Chewy. Tasty! Pasta is the greatest food in the entire world.”

The last thing she did was take the red sausage out of the cupboard and slice it up. She did it very finely, keeping her fingers far from the blade, but she diced the entire thing.

It had little pepper flakes inside. And the meat looked good. Erin couldn’t help but take one sliver; she resisted the urge to gobble it down and put the rest in the noodles. She might not get more for a long time.

The sausage tasted like sausage. Hot, spicy, and so flavorful it burst in her mouth. Erin’s eyes went slightly misty. It wasn’t blue fruits or—it tasted like food.

She couldn’t cry, though. She was far too hungry. Erin rubbed her eyes briskly and created a huge serving of noodles and dumped it onto a plate.

“Hm. Fork…fork! Am I missing anything?”

She felt like there was something missing. But—she brought the food into the common room anyways and sat down.

“Who knew carrying stuff with one hand was so much of a pain? I mean, everything’s a pain.”

The pasta was nice and hot. Erin felt her stomach rumbling. But something still felt off. And pain was still present.

“But it’s a better day, right? A bit of a better day.”

Erin stared at the plate. Pasta, check. Fork, check. Juice, check.

She sighed. A smile tried to climb onto her face. Her hand throbbed, but Erin kept the smile up and raised her fork. She was going to eat until she puked. Okay, maybe until she was just full. She raised the first glistening noodle to her lips.

Knock, knock.

Without thinking, Erin stood up and went to the door. She opened it as if she were at her home.

“Hi, can I help you?”

A giant insect stood in the doorway. It raised one chitin hand in greetings and opened its mandibles as its antennae waved in Erin’s face.

“Greetings. May we come in?”





1.06


A giant insect stood in the doorway. It had large, black, bulbous eyes like a bug, no pupils, just tiny facets reflecting the light, a dark brown chitinous body, almost black, and a pair of swords at its sides. A giant shell like a beetle or turtle’s covered its back, and the entire effect made the bug-man look slightly hunched.

It had four arms, each one covered in chitin but shaped almost like a Human’s, complete with fingers, and two long mandibles coming out of its mouth, shaped like pincers. A pair of waving antennae were attached to the thing’s head. No hair, no nose, no…clothing, really. Just a loincloth and a belt and a pair of swords sheathed at its side?

There was something shiny and metal pinned to its chest, but she was mostly just staring at the ant-person in front of her.

Erin stared at the ant-creature, lost for words. Then it opened its mouth and began to speak again.

“Good evening, Miss Human. I was wondering if my colleague and I could take up a moment of your time—”

Erin shut the door. Then she bolted it. Where did she put the kitchen knife?

“You idiot. I told you this is why I should have opened the door.”

A second, louder, muffled voice came through the door. A second bug-person? This one had a slight rasp to it, sibilant. Erin heard the two talking as she looked around. Weapon. She needed—

The Goblins’ knives were on the table. She grabbed both and tried to think. Knife. Chair? There were lots of chairs.

“Maybe it was a bad time?”

Or windows. Erin looked around. Plenty of windows. She’d jump out one if she needed to.

“Move over. Let me show you how it’s done.”

Someone knocked on the door again. Erin froze, and then went back. Very slowly, she opened the door.

A giant lizard—no, a miniature Dragon that looked sort of like a Human stared down at Erin. He had to be at least six-and-a-half feet tall.

He was huge, muscular, with scars parting the rippling scales instead of flesh. His head was shaped like a lizard’s—or a Dragon’s. No nose, again, but a snout and slitted pupils, not round. His scales were light green, and he had sharp, sharp claws on each hand. Yet he also had a very humanoid body—except for his feet, which were taloned like a dinosaur or lizard’s. Or a Dragon’s, again. He even had a long tail, which dragged on the ground behind him, and neck-spines sticking out the back of his head!

When he smiled, she saw his teeth. Pointed and sharp. Oh, and he had a forked tongue. The Dragon-man raised one claw and opened his mouth wider in a grin.

“Hello, Miss. Sorry if we—”

Erin shut the door, bolted it, and dragged a table in front of it. She could feel her heart pounding out of her chest as she pushed another table in the way. Knives were no good. He was huge! She’d have to jump out a window after all. She heard the first person, the bug-guy—he sounded like a guy—speaking drily.

“Good job not scaring her.”

“Shut up. This is your fault. I told you I should go first. I’m not a horrific Ant.”

“Yes, but I have my badge on. You have not brought yours. Again. For the eighth day in a row. Therefore, I was the most logical choice to—”

Were they talking? Erin listened hard. Her hands were shaking so hard she couldn’t hold anything. She heard them trying the door and finding it locked.

“Now what? I do not believe breaking and entering would be appropriate at this moment.”

“What, are you crazy? Let me talk. That was just a misunderstanding caused by seeing your face. I’ll straighten all this out.”

One voice was higher than the other and had a strange clicking quality about it. Erin guessed that was the insect’s. The other, the lizardman, pronounced his words with elongated s’s. And they were both speaking in English.

“Hello? Miss? We’re not dangerous.”

One of them was knocking on the door. Erin tried not to hyperventilate. Her eyes darted to the window. But she had to ask.

“…Are you a Dragon?”

She heard a surprised laugh from outside the door.

“Am I a Dragon? Aha. Haha. Well, that’s just—oh, Ancestors bite me. I mean, do I look like one? I’m not even Oldblood, but maybe I do. Klb, buddy, what do you think?”

“You are blushing.”

“Be quiet. I’m in a good mood now.”

The lizardman raised his voice again.

“Excuse me? I’m not a Dragon, Miss Human. I’m just an incredible Drake in service to the City Watch. Me and my idiot partner were on patrol when we noticed the smoke. May we come in? I promise we won’t bite.”

“Or inflict other forms of bodily or mental harm upon you.”

“Shut up. Are you trying to scare her?”

Erin debated. Somewhere in her mind, she was trying to decide whether she should be laughing or panicking. And if she were going to laugh, would it be funny laughter or hysterics?

She couldn’t decide. So instead—

“Um. Give me a moment. I’ll open this door.”

“Thank you very much.”

Erin dragged the tables out of the way and hesitantly unlatched the door. She opened it and stared at the insect and giant lizard again. The insect just stared at her. The lizard, on the other hand, opened his mouth and curved his lips upward. It might have been a smile.

“…Hi.”

Erin’s hand tensed on the door. The lizard guy put his hand on the door and stopped her from closing it. She tried, but suddenly the door was locked into place. He gently opened it and gave her a lazy salute with his other clawed hand.

“Sorry, sorry, Miss. We’re not here to hurt you, I promise.”

Erin hoped that was the case. She couldn’t budge the door an inch. But this wasn’t the time for flight, right? She took a different tack.

“W-want something to eat?”

The lizardman blinked.

“Um, sure.”

“Okay. That’s great.”

Erin opened the door slowly. The lizardman smiled and carefully stepped inside. The giant insect walked in too and gave her a polite nod.

“Good evening.”

“…Hi.”

The two stared around the empty inn. Erin pointed to the table while keeping her eye on them the entire time.

“Food’s over there.”

“Ooh! Pasta! This is good stuff!”

The lizardman—Drake—rubbed his hands together. The noise the scales made sounded like sandpaper. He went to sit at the table, but the insect guy paused.

“I would gladly partake of nourishment if offered. However, we would not wish to deprive you of your meal.”

“What? No. I’ve got lots of pasta.”

Erin pointed vaguely back to the kitchen.

“Let me just get a plate and…forks. Do you, uh, want a drink? I’ve got water.”

The two strangers exchanged a glance. The Drake raised one claw.

“I’ll have a glass if that’s alright.”

The ant man instantly copied him with a nod.

“I will accept the pasta and water as well. But may I inquire if you have any more meat-based dishes? Corusdeer, perhaps?”

What was a…? Erin shook her head.

“…No. No I do not.”

“A pity.”

Erin went to get the plates. She heard the two sitting and chatting idly while she went to the kitchen. There she took a moment to sit on the ground and slap herself a few times. Then she got the plates. An idea occurred to her as she was filling the cups with water, and she poked her head out.

“Here. Uh, I’ve got juice as well. Want a glass?”

The Drake blinked as she offered him a cup. He stared at the liquid inside and eyed his companion.

“Oh, thank you. It’s…blue.”

“Yeah. I made it myself. It tastes good, really.”

A moment’s hesitation and the giant lizard-man accepted it with a shrug.

“Well, I’ll gladly accept. Klbkch, you want any?”

He turned to his companion, and the other figure declined.

“I will pass for the moment. We should get down to business rather than partake of food.”

“In a moment. Let’s eat first. This looks good!”

Erin stared. Here was an opportunity. She had two creatures who could not only speak English for some reason, but were also not inclined to kill her and were eating her food. There were so many questions she could ask about herself, about where she was, about everything really.

It might be her questions would decide her ultimate fate. Probably not, but they were certainly important. But before Erin could ask any of the questions, including how a ‘Drake’ and giant ant learned to use a knife and fork, she had to ask again.

“…Are you sure you’re not a Dragon?”



——



“…So someone on the walls spotted the smoke and called it in. Since it didn’t seem like a grassfire and since we knew this place was abandoned years ago, the Captain decided to send someone to check it out.”

“To put it succinctly: we saw the fire and decided to investigate.”

The giant lizard turned and glared at his ant man companion.

“That’s what I said.”

The ant fellow replied stoically; his voice never seemed to change, unlike the boisterous lizard guy. He was—precise.

“You said it poorly. I am merely rephrasing your words for the benefit of all.”

“See, this. This is why no one else is willing to be your partner. Along with you being, y’know, you.”

“Your hurtful remarks are unnecessary. Besides which, I believe we are getting off track. We are in the presence of a member of the general public, remember.”

“Oh. Right. Sorry.”

The lizardman cleared his throat. It sounded weird to Erin; much deeper and bassier than normal. She was transfixed, as much by the surreality of having them eating with her as the fact that the ant man had excellent table manners and his companion did not—and the way they just—talked, bantered, even. It was beyond weird.

Actually, everything was weird to Erin at the moment. Not least were the two creatures sitting across from her.

Well, maybe ‘creatures’ was unfair. They were probably people. They acted like people. But they looked— Erin stared at the lizardman’s arms. They were huge. She’d seen bodybuilders on magazine covers and terrible gym commercials, but this guy was bigger than 90% of the male population. The Human male population. And he was green. And he had scales.

He glanced her way. His eyes were like a snake’s. Or a lizard’s. She looked away hastily and glanced at the ant man. At least, she thought he was an ant.

While he wasn’t that much smaller than the average guy, the insect guy looked tiny next to his partner. But of the two, he was definitely higher on the weirdness scale. Mainly because he was a giant insect. He had antennae.

“Miss?”

Erin jumped.

“Me? Hi, yes, me.”

The lizardman gulped down some of the blue juice.

“Sorry, but can we ask you a few questions about where you’re from? It’s pretty odd to find a Human out here, let alone in an abandoned place like this. Not that we mean to pry, it’s just that it’s kind of our job to ask these questions.”

“What? Oh, it’s no problem. Ask away.”

The insect guy leaned forwards.

“Well, to begin with, may we inquire where you come from?”

“I’m from Michigan.”

The two exchanged a glance while Erin mentally slapped herself.

“Michigan? I’m not familiar with that city. Or is it a nation…? Is that north of here? Over the mountains, maybe? On this continent?”

“Uh. No. It’s a bit further than that.”

“Oh, so are you…lost? Or travelling maybe?”

Erin shook her head.

“No, actually I got lost and—this is stupid. Why am I making excuses?”

Again, the glances were exchanged. The Drake coughed into one claw. The ant man began making notes on a pad.

“Um, I don’t know?”

Erin sighed and spread her hands on the table.

“Look. It’s complicated, and I can’t really explain. But would you believe…magic? Like a crazy, crazy, uh, teleportation spell?”

To her surprise, the two took that at face value. The Drake looked at his companion and raised both brows, but not in disbelief.

“Oh, a [Teleportation] spell? Was it a misfire or did someone target you? That’s a Mage’s Guild issue.”

“Not if they did not cause it. Intriguing. Was it a magical duel, perhaps? Some high-level spellcasting?”

The terms were flying over Erin’s head, but she did her best to describe what happened.

“Um. I didn’t see anything when it happened. I just sort of turned the corner and—look, the point is I suddenly appeared around here. And then…Dragon.”

“I told you. It’s flattering, but I’m not a Drag—oh.”

The ant man leaned forward.

“Do you mean to say you found a Dragon? Somewhere around this area? And you—survived the encounter. Unharmed?”

His voice was patently incredulous. Erin blinked.

“Is, uh, that a bad thing? I mean, it’s a Dragon yeah, but isn’t he…?”

Both she and the ant man looked at the lizardman.

“Look. It’s getting sort of embarrassing. I’m not a Dragon. I’m a Drake. And yeah, we’re distantly related cousins, but Dragons are…there’s no way. That would be huge. You said you saw one? You sure it wasn’t a Wyvern? It was probably a Wyvern.”

Erin vaguely knew that word, but she shook her head adamantly.

“It breathed at me. Fire. And then I was chased by little green men.”

“Goblins. And by the way, some Wyverns breathe fire too.”

“So they are Goblins. But—well, hold on—then I found a giant dino-bird—”

“A what?”

“A big…big leathery thing. With wings.”

“Oh, right. Those annoying things. What’re they called, Klbkch?”

The insect person looked up from his plate and replied calmly. He had a notepad open next to his meal and was taking notes. Was he writing with a…quill? And inkpot? Erin was fascinated.

“Razorbeaks. Go on, Miss.”

There wasn’t much else to say. Erin tried to summarize the rest of it.

“Well, after I got the eggs, there was a crab rock, I mean, a rock crab, and then I found blue fruits before that and…I met you two. A not-dragon and an insect. Who don’t want to eat me? Or is that after the meal?”

The lizard guy looked shocked and offended.

“Of course we wouldn’t eat you! That’s barbaric, and besides, it’s illegal. I mean, okay, sure, it happens sometimes in distant villages, but we wouldn’t do that. Right, Klbkch?”

The lizard man turned to his friend.

“Indeed. We would not violate our duty as guardsmen.”

“Your duty? You’re…guardsmen? And you…you’re K—kbch?”

The insect man raised one hand instantly and bowed slightly in his seat.

“Our pardons. We have not introduced ourselves. Allow me to correct this mistake. I am Klbkch, Senior Guardsman in the employ of the City of Liscor. This is my partner, also a Senior Guardsman.”

He nudged the Drake, and the other one looked up from sucking down a huge mouthful of noodles.

“Relc!”

The lizardman raised his glass.

“And this blue juice tastes good!”

“Indeed. And I must apologize again, but our true intent in coming here was to ascertain the danger posed here.”

Erin looked around.

“From what? Me?”

The Drake shrugged, picking at his teeth with a claw and glancing around.

“Not you, specifically. Really, it could be anything. We thought it might be a random fire or a few Goblins. If there were some stupid kids, on the other hand, we’d be dragging them back right now since it’s dangerous to stay here. Bandits on the other hand…”

Erin met his gaze in alarm. He had very yellow eyes with black pupils.

“Danger? Why danger? Is there something wrong with me staying here?”

“Well, there’s nothing wrong with you staying here. Aside from dying, that is.”

“Dying?”

Relc kicked Klbkch under the table. Erin noticed the motion and the slight impact.

“It’s just a possibility. This, uh, place is sort of bad. For your health.”

Erin looked blank. Klbkch cut in.

“The plague. This location was once a small community until everyone here died. Horribly. Admittedly, this was a decade ago, but it was evacuated and has been condemned since then.”

Erin put her head in her hands.

“So am I going to die by puking out my guts or something?”

“Actually, the plague symptoms manifested themselves as—”

Relc kicked Klbkch again.

“Why don’t you shut up and let me talk? Look, Miss Human. You’re probably not sick if you’re still walking around.”

“And not oozing.”

“Shut up. Ahem. We were just sent here to make sure no Goblins or nasty creatures started living here. We’ve got no problem with Humans. Well, at least the non-violent kind.”

“Indeed. There is no law against occupying this area.”

They both stared at her. Erin felt compelled to speak.

“Good. Thanks?”

“Right.”

“Indeed.”

“…Want another plate of pasta?”

The Drake had eaten most of his, and he looked fairly satisfied if how much he’d put away was anything to go by. He brightened up, and the Klbkch-person raised his hand politely as well.

“Oh, sure.”

“I will have another as well.”

Erin ladled noodles onto each plate. The diners were silent for a moment as each slurped down their noodles, or in the case of Klbkch, did something complex with his mouth-hole. Erin didn’t look closer.

After a while, Relc put down his fork.

“This really is quite good. How’d you make this all the way out here?”

“Oh, I found some flour and butter and stuff in one of the cupboards. It had a runey…thing on the shelves.”

“That would be a preservation spell. It is quite common among higher-class establishments.”

“But you cooked it, then? Do you have levels in a [Chef] class, then?”

Erin stared at Relc.

“Levels? Oh. No. I’ve got levels in, uh, [Innkeeper].”

He blinked at her, but idly, as if they were just making passing conversation and this wasn’t amazing.

“Oh, I see, I see. That’s convenient. Did you earn them here?”

“Uh, yeah. Every time I fell asleep I kept leveling. I’m, uh, level 4.”

“Not bad! Especially if you just got here a few days ago. Did the notification wake you up right as you were falling asleep? I hate that.”

“It did.”

“It’s very annoying.”

“Yeah. It is.”

The two looked at each other as Klbkch continued to eat in silence. Erin coughed into one hand and decided now was the time.

“So. Leveling. Classes.”

Relc blinked, then tapped at his chest with a grin.

“What about it? Oh, are you wondering about mine? I’m a [Spearmaster]. This idiot’s a [Swordslayer]. We both have levels in [Guardsman] as well, but not nearly as much as our primary classes. Pretty cool, huh?”

He grinned and was clearly waiting for some reaction. Erin hesitated.

“Right, right. Um, good to know.”

She smiled uncertainly, and he deflated a bit.

“Uh—thanks. [Spearmaster]. Me. Him—[Swordslayer]. No, it’s cool. We’re [Guards]. Yeah.”

Relc coughed a few times into his claw and glanced at her.

“And you’re an [Innkeeper], right? Got any other classes?”

“Um, no. No.”

Another quick glance. Klbkch and Relc hesitated, and the Drake shrugged.

“So four levels in…? That’s too bad. But you’re young; leveling takes time after all.”

“Okay. Right. Um. Let’s pretend I have no idea what leveling or classes are. I’m, uh, from really far away, and we have different…traditions.”

Relc and Klbkch exchanged a glance.

“…You mean you don’t level in this Michigan place?”

“Oh no, no. We level, it’s just, uh, different from you guys. And I never paid much attention in school and all that…”

This time, the look she got was ranging beyond skeptical into incredulous. Relc sat back with a frown and popped another sliver of sausage into his mouth.

“They have to teach Humans how to level? Weird.”

Klbkch agreed, although he gave Erin a look of what might have even been sympathy.

“That is unusual. I was under the impression levels worked uniformly across all species. However, I too understand the issues of communicating leveling and the system of classes. Even so, it is odd to think there is a nation that does not teach it in some way. Unless you are referring to a cultural difference in classes?”

Erin had no idea what that meant. She spread her hands on the table, looking from face to face.

“Yes. No. Maybe? Look, I level. You level. We level. Everyone levels, right? We all can level up in, uh, classes and gain skills. How am I doing so far?”

Relc nodded amiably. He was slurping down noodles with his long tongue. Erin was fascinated, although she wasn’t sure if he was being disgusting or not.

“That’s pretty much how it works. What were you confused about?”

“Um. I gained levels just from cleaning an inn. And I wasn’t an [Innkeeper] before this. So why…?”

Relc waved a claw airily.

“Oh, that. New classes without an apprenticeship, you mean? Simple. You must have satisfied the requirements for the class, that’s all. I know it’s sort of weird gaining a new class suddenly, but it happens. I knew a guy who gained four levels in [Farmer] just because he kept growing carrots in pots next to his window. Not [Gardener], [Farmer]. I guess it was because he grew lots of carrots. Leveling is weird that way.”

“So…okay, let me think.”

Erin had to massage her head while the two guardsmen looked at her in concern. Well, she assumed they were looks of concern.

“This is a world. Everyone levels in it. Humans, lizard people, talking insects, cats, dogs, Goblins…”

“Hey, what did you just call—”

Klbkch leaned forward, cutting Relc off.

“Actually, I would like to correct you on that point. While the thinking races may level, animals and even creatures such as Dragons are not capable of leveling. Which is common knowledge.”

They were giving her very, very strange looks. Erin hesitated, but she was already in too deep, so she decided she had to gain as much information as possible.

“What, really? How about Goblins?”

“They can level. Now, about what you just said. I’m not a lizard—”

“Indeed. It is part of our shared past. Once, of course, all races fought with tooth and claw and magic, but then they divided. Those who decided to forsake their natures and pursue a different truth received the gift of leveling, while those creatures who stayed true to their nature kept the might of their natures instead. According to historical records, at least. It is the subject of some studies, but that is the consensus.”

“Really? So that means—”

“Hey!”

Relc’s fist smashed into the table. Every plate on the table jumped into the air, and Erin nearly fell out of her chair. She looked at Relc. He was scowling, but when he glanced at her pale face, he stopped and looked guilty.

“Um. Sorry about that. Really. But, uh, can we talk about that name?”

“N-name?”

“Yeah. You, um, called me a lizard person, right?”

“Is that wrong?”

“…Yes. Yes, it is. I’m a Drake, not one of the Lizardfolk. There’s a big difference.”

“Sorry. Sorry about that.”

“Uh, don’t apologize. Look, maybe I overreacted a bit. I’m not, uh, mad…”

Klbkch kicked Relc under the table.

“I believe it was my turn to do that. Apologize to the Human for your rudeness.”

“…Yeah, sorry.”

Relc bowed his head down low, until the neck spines along the back of his head were pointing at the ceiling. Erin waved her hands urgently.

“Oh no, no. Please don’t do that. I didn’t know it was so rude. If I’d have known, I’d have never—there’s a big difference between lizard people and Drakes, right?”

Klbkch raised one finger politely.

“Only a few differences, but the animosity between their cultures is—”

Erin saw Relc go for a huge kick, but Klbkch swung his legs up, and Relc glared at him until he was quiet. The Drake turned back to Erin huffily, and she realized this was an important issue to him.

“Shut up. I’m still sorry. But yeah, there’s a big difference. I mean, sure, Humans say we look similar, but we’re totally different. They have those neck frills, and they’re way too colorful. We build cities out of proper stone, but the Lizardfolk live near water and can breathe underwater too, some of them. They have Naga and, like, jungles in Baleros. Whereas we Drakes like drier climates. We enjoy warm sun, open spaces…”

“Nice rocks to laze about upon while we should be performing our duties.”

“You’re just an overgrown ant. You be quiet. Anyways, we’re special. Those guys are just amphibians that learned to walk on two legs. We’re related to Dragons. We’ve got special powers.”

“Like what?”

“We can breathe fire. Some of us can, at least.”

Relc sat back and folded his arms with a triumphant grin. Erin and Klbkch stared at him in silence.

“What? It’s a great power!”

“I am sure it is.”

“Yeah. That sounds amazing. Really…really cool!”

Relc nudged Klbkch with a triumphant smile of approval.

“See? She gets it. Told you it was cool.”

“Yeah, it’s awesome.”

“I feel I must mention that you, personally, cannot breathe fire, Relc.”

“Shut up, Klbkch!”

Relc looked annoyed and embarrassed at the same time.

“Only a few Drakes can do it, okay? Not breathing fire is perfectly normal. And some of us can, so there.”

He looked at Erin anxiously.

“We’re still cool, right?”

Erin grinned and gave him a thumbs up. Then she winced in regret. She’d used her bad hand. The Drake focused on the bloody bandages with a trained eye and suddenly frowned and leaned forwards.

“Ooh, nasty. What happened there? Looks like a bad cut. Were those Goblins?”

“What, this? It’s nothing, it—”

Klbkch stood up suddenly. Erin flinched, but he raised two of his spindly arms.

“Please, I mean no harm. But your hand. May I see it?”

Erin hesitated. Then she slowly extended her hand. On the outside, her bandage was grey and red with congealed blood. Some dripped to the floor. Relc winced, but Klbkch studied the injury carefully without touching it. Then he looked up.

“Again, apologies. But could I trouble you to remove the bandage?”

Erin hesitated. But then she slowly unwrapped her hand. And flinched. The pain that had been slumbering in her hand suddenly flared, and something dripped to the floor.

It was yellowish-white pus. It dripped from her wound. And the wound itself was different. Instead of the thin red line, it had changed. Parts of the injury were darker red and—Erin looked away.

Relc hissed softly. However, Klbkch made no sound. He inspected her wound for a few seconds, his antennae moving slowly, and then looked at her.

“Yeah. Um, yeah.”

Erin tried to breathe. Her hand was suddenly burning.

“It—sorry, it’s a mess. I cut my hand, and I guess it just got infected, but—”

“It is not an infection.”

“What?”

“It is poison. Of a sort.”

“You sure? It doesn’t feel like—”

“There is a fish in the rivers near here. It secretes a mucus that damages the area it touches. Such as in this case. I have seen several similar afflictions as a guardsman.”

“You have? I mean, it’s not an infection?”

Erin was trembling. The insect man held her gently.

“Please, do not be alarmed. This is treatable. Allow me.”

He reached down. Erin looked and saw him pull something out of a belt pouch at his waist. She blinked as he held up a bottle full of a shimmering, emerald-green liquid.

“This is a low-grade healing potion. If you pour it over your injury, it should heal your affliction.”

Relc opened his mouth, but the bug man turned his head, and the Drake hesitated.

“Yep. Good thing it’s meant to treat light infections too. Klb, are you going to…?”

Klbkch didn’t respond. Gently, he uncorked the bottle and held it out to Erin. She accepted it gingerly, but hesitated.

“This is—I mean, is it safe? For Humans?”

Klbkch and Relc both nodded. Relc was eying his partner, but the ant man was intent.

“Please, believe me. It will heal you.”

Erin stared into his eyes. They were compound eyes, large ones. Brown and fractal. Like an ant’s. And they were creepy as hell, but Erin decided she could still trust them.

She gripped the potion tightly in her right hand and poured it slowly over the open wound on her left hand. She gasped in shock. Klbkch instantly checked her hand.

“Are you alright?”

“It—it doesn’t hurt!”

Relc snorted gently. It sounded like a leaf blower starting up.

“Of course not. Why would anyone make a healing potion that hurts when you use it? But look at that!”

He pointed. Erin’s eyes went down to the cut in her hand. It was closing up with amazing speed. The flesh was joining together, and in an instant, the entire cut vanished. She gaped.

Klbkch plucked the half-empty bottle from her hands before she dropped it. She was too busy poking at her hand to realize, but when he’d stoppered the bottle, she turned and gave him a huge hug.

“Thank you—ow!”

“Apologies. It is unwise to hug those with exoskeletons. Please, are you hurt?”

Erin stood back and rubbed at where his pointy bits had poked her.

“No, no I’m not. And how can I—I can’t thank you enough. That—that was a healing potion, right? How can I repay you for—”

She cast around for something to give him, but Klbkch held up one of his…hands.

“Please, it was nothing. That was merely a low-grade healing potion of no great worth. Let us call it payment for the meal. Unless, of course, you object?”

Erin looked around, flustered, and shook her head rapidly.

“Oh no, thank you. I mean, this is probably worth—can I get you another plate? Or—or you could come back. I’ll feed you two again if you want—”

“I will accept gladly. But for now I am full, and I believe it is time to be going. We would not wish to intrude upon your hospitality for too long.”

Relc paused as he gulped down more blue fruit juice.

“We wouldn’t?”

His partner turned to face him, looking the same, but he lowered his mandibles and he sounded mildly exasperated.

“We are still on duty, if you recall. The Captain will be expecting a report. If we do return, we will have more time to socialize.”

Relc considered this with a nod for logic. Then he held up a finger.

“Or, and hear me out. Or…we could have more food and stay here longer.”

Klbkch stared at him until the finger lowered by itself.

“I am sure you would prefer that. But we are being paid to work, not to enjoy ourselves. Moreover, you are eating all of this Human’s dinner.”

Relc glanced at the table. He stood up immediately.

“Right. Well, let’s be going. Um, sorry about that, Miss. Here, let me just pay for the food…”

Erin tried to protest, but a scaly hand prized hers open gently and deposited several copper coins and two silver ones into her palm.

“I insist. That blue drink is really good, by the way.”

“Thanks.”

“Well, we’ll be off then. Good night to you.”

The two left the inn. Erin watched them go. The door closed, and she heard them speaking lightly about reporting back and filing…

Then she heard nothing at all. Erin went to go sit down and ended up sitting on the floor. She stared at the door. She stayed sitting for another hour in complete, stunned, gratified shock.

What just happened?



——



Relc and Klbkch left the inn. They began walking through the grass under the night sky. It was cool, but both moved quickly. Each one scanned the landscape as they walked and kept their hands on the spear and swords at their sides. They weren’t nervous, just wary.

However, they were also moving a lot faster than average to get back to the city before complete nightfall; they had to clock out and file that report. This patrol had taken longer than they thought, but they were so busy thinking that it took five minutes before Relc finally broke the silence. He turned to Klbkch and murmured.

“What a lonely girl.”

“Is she female? I could not tell with complete accuracy. She sounded so, but I have met few Humans in social settings.”

Relc nodded wisely and glanced over his shoulder.

“I can. It’s the things on her chest.”

“Mammary glands? Breasts, I think they’re referred to. Or maybe the word is tits.”

Relc hesitated.

“Really? I thought those were birds.”

Klbkch shrugged.

“That is what I heard some small Humans saying once. But she’s female. And young, correct?”

The Drake nodded slowly, frowning back at the old inn.

“Yeah, I’d bet on it. I’m not sure why a Human would be out here anyways, let alone in that place.”

Klbkch shrugged.

“Inquiring into others’ personal affairs is only a matter for the Guards while we’re on duty. Respecting another’s personal space is a principle of social interaction.”

Relc elbowed him, but Klbkch had sidled out of range.

“Shut up. She just seems lonely, that’s all. Why else would a Human female want to hang out with a Drake and an overgrown bug?”

Klbkch was silent for a while.

“Do you believe she is a lawbreaker or fearful for her life?”

Relc shook his head again.

“Even if she was, who’d hide there? You’d have to be mad, or be a [Warrior] or [Survivor] to want to live by yourself. Plus, the plague! Do I look sick? Am I oozing?”

The Drake checked himself with vague paranoia, but Klbkch shook his head.

“It was almost certainly safe as I and Watch Captain Zevara assured you repeatedly, Relc. Besides, that young woman’s presence is proof enough. She would be dead within the day if the disease were still present.”

“Bet she didn’t know. And her expression when we walked in—she’s never seen a Drake or an Ant before in her life. Well, the Ant part makes sense.”

“I would prefer that you call my species by their proper name.”

Relc ignored that. He glanced over his shoulder.

“What do you think? I bet she’s some kind of runaway or a child that got separated from her clan. Do Humans have clans? Or is it all [Lords] and [Ladies]? Maybe she’s not even from this continent.”

He waited for more speculation, but the ant man had turned his head and was refusing to speak. Relc glowered, but then grudgingly snapped.

“Fine. Antinium. Happy?”

Klbkch replied at once, as if nothing had happened.

“Her being a runaway would be most likely. I find it hard to believe any Human would wander so far into the grasslands by accident, and she did not seem to be looking for directions. Her magical teleportation story is also possible, but why would she not have asked to be taken to the Mage’s Guild? It is clearly a cover story.”

“Bastard.”

“You are correct in at least one definition of the word. But speculation is pointless in any case. We investigated the smoke, and now we can make our report. She is not breaking the law since the inn was abandoned nearly ten years ago.”

“What about the Dragon? Do you think she made that up?”

Klbkch hesitated and glanced at Relc. His pincers made a clicking sound as they came together in thought.

“She was not lying, at least not intentionally. But it is possible she was mistaken.”

“Yeah. A Dragon? Really?”

Relc laughed, and the Antinium shrugged.

“It seems more likely that she was hallucinating. However…she may have run into a fire-breathing salamander. I cannot imagine she would survive an encounter with a real Dragon. Armies would not.”

“Plus, we’d know if a Dragon lived around here. They’re pretty obvious.”

“…Indeed.”

More silence. At last, Relc summed up the contents of their report.

“So…scared Human female? Not a threat? Probably a traveller? Makes good pasta?”

“That was my assessment.”

“Right, right. Let’s tell the Captain and get some sleep. Or rather, I’ll sleep and you do—whatever Ants do to sleep. Sitting-sleeping or whatever.”

“Agreed. And it is very restful. You should attempt it sometime.”

“Pass.”

The two walked in silence for quite some time. The road back to the city was long, and in any case, they were still alert for potential dangers that might be sneaking up on them. Not that either had much to fear from most predators so long as they kept their eyes and earholes open, but you never knew.

After a long time, Klbkch broke the silence.

“So, shall we return tomorrow?”

Relc blinked and looked at his partner in disbelief. Because he had been about to say the exact same thing, and he was sure Klbkch would shoot it down.

“Oh, definitely. Right after work?”

“We may be able to fit checking in there as part of our duties if we convince the Captain it is necessary.”

Relc slapped Klbkch on the back of his shell in delight.

“Klb! That’s so devious! We can waste hours and say it was all an investigation! Now you’re thinking like a Drake!”

“I will endeavor not to in the future.”

“Go roast yourself.”

They walked on for another few minutes until Relc broke the silence again. There was just one last thing he had to bring up. He eyed his partner, looking amused, but Klbkch refused to respond. Relc indicated the empty bottle hanging at Klbkch’s belt.

“So, a lesser healing potion of no worth, huh? You know, I’ve never heard you lie like that.”

The Antinium’s voice was calm as he replied.

“Would you have had me tell her the true value?”

“No, no. It’s for the best. Mind you, I think she figured it out.”

“…Perhaps.”

“How are you going to explain that to the Captain, huh? That’s supposed to be special-issue. We won’t even get another shipment of that quality for months, probably! All the way from Pallass once the Blood Fields are frozen.”

The Antinium was unmoved.

“I did not believe a lesser one would be worth the risk. I shall make do with a replacement, and I will deduct the cost from my pay. Besides which, it was used to protect a civilian.”

Relc rolled his eyes.

“You’re a regular do-gooder, huh? Trying to level up your…[Good Person] class? Is that a class?”

“You know fully well that I have no levels in any class of the kind. I was merely being kind.”

“Sure, suuuure you were.”

“I have no sexual attraction towards Humans. Unlike you.”

“Me? I don’t like Humans. They’re scaleless, hairy, and they smell funny. I mean, this one’s nice, but I definitely wouldn’t want to see what it looks like under those clothes.”

“Mm. It’s not very interesting. They are very fleshy.”

“Ew.”

“Indeed.”

The two walked on in silence. Eventually, Relc spoke again.

“—It’s not that I’m not interested. I have an open mind! I wouldn’t mind looking. If I was offered. They’ve got nothing on good scales, but I could get over the fleshiness. Maybe.”

“Deviant.”

“Shut up.”

The two were almost in sight of the walls now, and Relc waved up at the figures watching them. He turned to Klbkch, but the inn wasn’t even visible from here. The Drake smiled, and Klbkch nodded.

“She was quite interesting in any case. It was pleasant talking to her.”

Relc sighed.

“Yeah. Yeah, I’m glad we didn’t have to kill her.”

“Indeed.”



——



Erin sat against one wall. She was falling asleep. She wanted to run around screaming about lizardmen—Drakes—walking ants, and a crazy world, but that was passé. Besides, she’d already done that for a few hours anyway.

Her mind was swimming. Her eyes were drooping. Erin was about to fall asleep. But her hand didn’t hurt. So she was smiling.

At last her mind finally blanked. Erin’s breathing deepened, and her eyes closed.



[Innkeeper Level 5!]

[Skill – Basic Crafting obtained!]



Blearily, the young woman stared up into the darkness.

“…Just let me sleep.”

She closed her eyes once more, but she was still smiling as she drifted off.





1.07


Erin woke up with a big smile on her face.

Actually, she woke up and went back to sleep several times before the sunlight got too bright to ignore. But when she eventually got up and ate breakfast, she got around to the big smile.

It came when she was eating more blue fruit and she realized she was using two hands. Erin had to stop and stare at her left palm for a while. She poked the clean, unscarred, uncut skin and grinned.

“Healing potions are awesome.”

She sat back in her chair, flexing her healed hand. It didn’t hurt. It was amazing how much it didn’t hurt. And she owed it all to a giant ant man and a lizard…Drake. What were their names again?

“Klbkch and…Drake Guy.”

Erin sighed as the memories returned and gave her a hard time.

“Seriously. They were so normal. But apparently I’m normal too. There are other Humans around here at least. But leveling? Classes? Am I an [Innkeeper]? Do I innkeep? How does that work?”

Then she remembered something else.

“I leveled up again.”

Erin poked her chest. She felt there should be some sense of accomplishment from within, but all she felt was vaguely full. But she remembered.

“[Basic Crafting]. Might as well give it a shot. I’m out of fruit, anyways.”



——



It was an uneventful trip to the blue fruit trees. As Erin gazed up at the blue fruits, she wondered for the first time how many there were left to eat. She counted.

“…Looks like I’ve got a few weeks before I run out. But bleh, eating just blue fruit all the time would be disgusting. At least there’s some ingredients left for pasta if I can find more eggs.”

But what would happen when her small cupboard ran out? What then?

Erin touched the pocket of her jeans and heard the clink of coins. Right, she had some money. But how much was it? And more importantly, how could she spend it? It wasn’t as if she could eat metal.

Grumbling to herself, Erin loaded up with blue fruits. It was getting annoying carrying them all by hand. She dropped a lot of them, which bruised the skin and made the fruit taste mushy. So why not try making something?

Erin stared at the ground. She had…grass. She stared at the trees. She had wood. But she had no way of cutting that wood, so it was no good. She didn’t know how to make things. Even if you gave her…rope, or string, and pieces of wood or something, Erin didn’t see how that equated to a basket.

Yet as she stared at the grass, something in Erin’s head lit up. She frowned suddenly.

“Wait a second. Maybe that could work. Let’s see. If I take this long grass and tie this knot here…”

Erin hunkered down and started picking the longer clumps of grass and testing their durability. She started tying knots and cutting with the knife.

Knots? Erin knew the most basic, weakest knots where you just folded two sides of string over each other and the shoelace knot, but she couldn’t tie that unless she had a…shoe. However, suddenly, she was weaving the grass together in ways she hadn’t thought of. But now that she was doing it—it was obvious. If you had big pieces of fabric, string, or grass, of course you could tie them together to form a net. And that would be the base of your basket…

It was like someone had bridged the tentative idea from what she needed with actual understanding. Erin found she had to focus on her task—she couldn’t just go on autopilot, but at the same time there was a certainty in what she was doing. And in less than twenty minutes, she was looking at a basket made of grass.

“Whoa.”

Erin held up the basket and inspected it. It was lightweight, but durable. Wide strands at the bottom wove together to form a decent mesh, and it even had a handle made of three big leaves braided together! She experimentally tossed all the blue fruits she’d gathered into it and lifted it. The grass basket pulled downwards, but the woven handle didn’t tear.

It was a real basket. Made of grass.

Was it tacky? Yes. Did she feel like she should be dancing with pom poms on a deserted island? Yes. Was that a terrible thought to have? Probably. And should she feel ashamed of herself? Erin already was. But she had a basket.

And more importantly, she had a plan.

What could you do with a basket? Well, you could eat and walk at the same time since you had a free hand. Erin cored a few blue fruits and hung on to the seed pods. Then she went looking for eggs.

It took her about an hour before she found another nest. When she spotted the telltale brown shape hunkering in the long grass, Erin stomped over, making as much noise as possible.

This time, the thing that erupted from the grass didn’t fly away immediately. Instead, the dino-bird screeched and dove at her. Erin stood her ground, reached into her basket, and threw a seed core.

She missed.

But the flying object spooked the bird. The giant pterodactyl wavered and then flew away as Erin hurled more seed cores at it. She laughed triumphantly and rushed to grab the eggs.

That was when the bird turned around and flew at her, pecking and trying to bite her. It wasn’t afraid of the seed cores after all. And it had a sharp beak.



——



Only when she was sure that the dino-bird had gone did Erin stop running. She stopped and covered one of the numerous bloody peck marks on her arms and back and tried not to shout.

“Stupid thing.”

At least it hadn’t been bigger. Erin had managed to smack it a few times until it stopped trying to bite her face off. But that didn’t mean she’d gotten away unscathed.

Erin hissed as she pressed on another bite. She wanted nothing more than to get some cold water on them. Too bad there were more suspicious rocks in the way. Actually, there were about six of them, spaced out across the grasslands. Well, her trick hadn’t worked on the bird, but rock crabs were a different matter.

On her way back, Erin pasted two of the rock crabs with the slimy seed cores when they shuffled at her. They didn’t like the noxious liquid that splashed their shells and retreated with loud clicks. Erin wiped off the foul-smelling juice from her hands and walked past the crabs triumphantly.



——



It was just past midday when Erin got back to the inn. At least she’d stopped bleeding on her walk back. She made it halfway through the inn’s door, blinked, and threw up.

Erin stopped gagging and retching long enough to stare at the pool of liquefied blue fruit in horror. Then she was sick again. And again.

Somehow, Erin made it to the stream. It was a combination of walking fast and pausing every few minutes to throw up that got her there. She didn’t so much jump into the stream as fall into it and begin shivering as whatever was hitting her really went to town.



——



The next hour saw her kneeling at the stream, gargling water, puking it up, and watching out for the crazy fish. Fortunately, they didn’t seem inclined to get near her. Actually, she saw one swim towards her and start nibbling at the contents of her stomach as it washed downstream. That was gross.

Erin washed her mouth and hands off for the tenth time and felt the shaking and nausea stop a bit.

“What—what was that?”

Erin could only mumble as she stared into the water. She moved her head—not so much out of desire for movement as to watch for the dangerous flatfish.

The fish that had been eating her vomit was floating belly-up in the water. Erin saw the other fish were avoiding it just like they were avoiding her.

“…Poison. Gotta be.”

But what had it come from? As she lay there, the young woman tried to identify the causes. Her first thought was the pasta. The pasta, sausages…

The plague?

But no, Klbkch had said if she was oozing she was sick. This felt like bad food poisoning. It could be the pasta. Or—or was she sick because of contact with the Drake guy? The bug-people might have horrible diseases.

Yet the fish was dead. So that felt more like it was something Erin had eaten. So, logically, she had two culprits.

Pasta made of dino eggs and sausage. Or…the blue fruits.

Given both as options, Erin knew which one she suspected. But she didn’t eat the seed cores! Were the blue fruits dangerous?

On a vague hunch, Erin looked around and saw the basket of blue fruits still lying on the ground where she’d dropped them to be sick in the stream. She picked one up and stared at it.

“You look innocent. But maybe…”

She did exactly what she normally did to eat it, except with her fingers instead of teeth. Erin delved into the pulpy fruit, resisting the urge to take a bite, and stared at the seed core inside.

It looked like it wasn’t broken. It looked, therefore, like this fruit was good. On a hunch, Erin tossed the blue fruit pieces into the stream. They sank a bit in the clear water, and she wondered if the water was bad too—she should have really boiled everything she drank. However, she had the most suspicion about the seed cores that scared the rock crabs so much.

The first flatfish had been avoiding her and whatever had killed its friend, but it apparently had short-term memory problems because it ungainly leapt and swallowed the pieces of the blue fruit she tossed into the water. Erin watched it as it spat out a bit, but apparently decided the rest was digestible, even if it wasn’t the flesh it so clearly craved.

“Okay. How about…”

The seed core didn’t crack as she gently lobbed it into the water and bobbed down the brisk current. The fish investigated it—and to Erin’s amusement, gingerly closed its teeth around the seed core and gave it a tentative nibble. It crunched down the seed core then began to spit out fragments and a bit of ugly greenish-blue from the pulp. All four eyes swung around crazily as the awkward fish shook its body in clear revulsion.

“Must taste bad, huh?”

The fish zoomed around unhappily as Erin watched. Then it grew slower, and Erin saw it open its mouth wide and then it began vomiting the contents of its stomach up. She watched a replay of what had happened to her. Only this time—within two minutes—the fish was dead.

A chill ran down Erin’s back as she saw the second corpse floating downstream. Those fish weren’t as big as her, but that one had eaten one seed core and—she looked down at the blue fruits in horror.

No wonder the dino birds, rock crabs, or other animals, even birds and worms and stuff, didn’t try to eat them! Only she was stupid enough to try—and the Goblins. She must have been lucky! Some of the seed cores must have leaked poison or something into some of the fruits she ate so she didn’t notice due to the sweet taste.

And then I eat too many and die. Only, I was spared because of random chance. Erin shuddered. She clenched her hands.

It wasn’t fair! Her one secure food source, good-tasting food, turned out to be poison. It was just like the acid flies, the fish, the cupboard—everything was out to get her.

Except for the two friendly [Guards], and they were gone. Erin put her head down.

“Do I just eat what’s in the cupboard and fight dino-birds? If I can’t eat the blue fruits…”

Her survival chances were dropping rapidly. Yet Erin looked at the basket of inviting blue fruits and saw them completely differently. No longer this world’s versions of apples or oranges—they were alien fruits, and she was lucky she hadn’t died eating the first one.

Glumly, Erin was about to toss all the blue fruits in the stream when she decided she could at least harvest the definitely-deadly poisonous cores as a rock crab deterrent. Then, as she was lying there, trying not to cry or puke—she heard a sound.

It sounded like—Erin sat up.

Oh no. Not now. She scrambled around and then crawled over to an incline and rolled down the other side.

Goblins.



——



The band of Goblins were six in total. Three with weapons, three with baskets of their own. In fact…they even looked vaguely familiar. One had a lot of bruises, and Erin recognized it as the one she’d slapped—mainly from the huge mark on its face.

The non-combatants were odder. They were small, wearing ragged, dirty clothes that looked far too big for them. One, for instance, had what was just a tunic for a regular person dragging on the ground, it was so short.

Those were the ones carrying baskets. Grass baskets, like Erin’s. And in fact—they had buckets too. Buckets made of what looked like…Erin hesitated as she peeked up from the lip of the slope she was hiding behind.

Shells? It looked like some kind of chitin. Not the Klbkch guy; it was too small, and too…she hesitated.

It looked like a spider shell, only hollowed and taped together with something sticky to make a crude basin. A big, big spider.

As it turned out, the Goblins were using it to collect water. They gazed around furtively as their leader poked the others and pointed.

They didn’t speak that Erin heard, only dipped their containers into the water. And—she noticed—they had baskets of blue fruit too.

The young woman realized she was occupying the exact same ecological niche as Goblins. That didn’t make her feel great, but they hadn’t seen her; for once, the unique topography of this area meant that she was less than twenty feet away and invisible unless they climbed up and saw her from above.

She hoped they wouldn’t take long to do their business. Then Erin hoped they didn’t use the stream as anything like a restroom. Or even bath, because she might be downriver of them! Then issues of hygiene and water contamination fled her mind as she heard a snarl.

One of the Goblins had found her grass basket. And spotted one of the dead fish floating downriver. It pointed at the basket, and all the Goblins looked up. Erin tensed as they investigated. She was still feeling vomit-y, but she had been healed and there were only three with knives. If it came to it—she could definitely run away and get to the inn. But what were they doing?

They were investigating the basket, poking each other and making odd gestures, again, completely in silence. Then the smallest Goblin did something that fascinated Erin.



——



The littlest Goblin hated getting water. It was heavy, and the big Goblins made her carry it. But she couldn’t fight well, and sometimes they had to fight spiders or other things. And they hit her if she complained.

They’d already gotten blue fruits, and the basket was heavy, so the little Goblin kept trying to hang it on different limbs as they went to fill the buckets. She felt like if she carried it on her back, she wouldn’t hurt her arms.

But when one of the Goblins who could make baskets saw her fraying the grass with her efforts, she hit the littlest Goblin, and the sniffing little Goblin carried her burdens in silence.

They were lucky; there was nothing hunting them when they got to the stream. After a few big mouthfuls of water, the group was ready to bring water back to the tribe and [Chieftain] when they found the basket.

That was odd. One of the warriors pointed at the basket, and all six Goblins checked themselves. Three had baskets of blue fruit, and the other three didn’t carry baskets.

But there were…one…two…three…four baskets. The lead Goblin was suspicious as the littlest Goblin looked around. There were no more Goblins gathering food, much less the blue fruits. Had one forgotten a basket?

It looked—good. Well-made. Most of the other Goblins who could craft baskets were lazy and made cheap ones because they fell apart soon. This one was nice, and the littlest Goblin wanted it.

Perhaps someone had forgotten it here. The bigger Goblins decided it was more food, and who cared where it came from? That meant one less Goblin had to make a trip to get the blue fruits.

It didn’t seem to occur to them that maybe it hadn’t come from Goblins at all. The littlest Goblin tugged at arms and pointed urgently.

What if it came from the inn? What if the Human had made it?

The others laughed silently in her face. Humans had real baskets of wood and metal! The littlest Goblin thought it made sense. The Human girl had been around the blue fruits and she was at that inn.

But they just poked her, and since her idea was stupid, she had to carry both baskets and the water.

That was so unfair the littlest Goblin protested. She swung her fists wildly at one of the warriors, who kicked her into the stream. She had to swim out before the fish got her and lay, sulking, on the ground. However, her defiance had worked, and the grumbling warriors decided one of them would carry the water bucket.

But she still had to carry both baskets! The littlest Goblin decided that was the best she could get, so she rolled around in the grass as one of the older Goblins who gathered fruits all the time decided to inspect the mysterious extra basket. Instantly, the [Gatherer]’s face twisted up, and the older Goblin snapped at the littlest Goblin to come over and help.

Some of the fruits were bad. What idiot Goblin had harvested these?



——



These Goblins were weird.

Erin had expected to get a movie-like scene from the Goblins where they said ‘let’s eat the Humans’ or something evil. But they weren’t like that. They didn’t…speak.

But they did pantomime a lot and seemed to be able to read each other’s minds. Could Goblins do that? They also seemed bored, and the ones with weapons were bullies! They’d kicked the little one into the stream, and now they were taking her basket!

Bullies and thieves. Erin bit her lip. She could remake that basket, but it was the first one she’d made! Plus her food was being taken. Her—admittedly poisonous blue fruits.

Okay, they could have that, but please, leave the basket! Erin watched as an older Goblin with what looked like a spider’s claw shoved through her black hair as a…hairpin?…investigated the basket.

Then she seemed upset and made a loud eigk-ing sound, the first sound any Goblin had really made aside from chortles or grunts, and beckoned the little Goblin over. To Erin’s indignation, she began tossing blue fruits out of the basket!

The little Goblin seemed as confused as Erin. She poked at one and got a swat from the older Goblin as she tried to add it to her collection. What was wrong with the fruits on the ground?



——



They were all poisonous. The littlest Goblin recoiled from one bad blue fruit and wiped her claws on her wet shirt as the [Gatherer] sorted the basket. It wasn’t just experience that told the older Goblin this.

It was her Skill.

[Detect Poison]. These were bad, these were bad…by the time she sorted the basket, only the fruits without a trace of badness were left. Half were scattered on the ground. She’d have to re-check these ones when they got back to the cave, too.

The littlest Goblin peered at the bad blue fruits. They didn’t seem bad to her. But she knew if you ate the nasty thing inside, you’d be dead in an hour. Bad, stomach-screaming, frothing-mouth-death.

One of the bad ways to go, even worse than spider-death. No, actually, spider-death seemed worse still, but both hurt a lot.

The little Goblin was curious, though, so as the older Goblins decided to take a break before heading back to their cave, she produced a tiny little knife and began opening the fruits. If these were bad…

She begged for one blue fruit, and since they had extra, all the Goblins ate one from the extra basket. They didn’t have to tell the [Chieftain]. The littlest Goblin cut them up and removed the seed cores and tossed them into the stream, and got to stare at the good blue fruits and the bad ones. She cut up three bad ones and then smiled.

Oh! That was how it worked.

The bigger Goblins watched the small Goblin out of the corners of their eyes. She was very young and very odd. Even for small Goblins. She’d smile or stare at things that made no sense, or collect rocks and sticks.

And now this? The littlest Goblin didn’t seem interested in eating the poisonous fruit, which was good, so they took a brief nap then left. They didn’t understand why she smiled. Nor did the young woman watching until she crawled out of hiding.



——



Erin felt like throwing up again by the time the Goblins had gone. Not because of them stealing her basket—the poison was still in her system.

However, she was curious as to the little Goblin’s antics. She clearly knew the fruits lying all about were bad—and just as obviously, at least one of the Goblins had identified the poisonous ones.

“Huh. Can Goblins smell poison? Wait…wait. That Relc guy said they have Skills. Do you get Skills to tell if there’s bad fruits? [Bad Fruit Detector]? No way.”

But how else would the other Goblins do that? Super-smell? If so, she should have picked up on Erin. The young woman didn’t know, but the little Goblin’s actions made her most curious. So she squatted down and stared at the pieces of blue fruit.

She was confused, not only by the blue fruit analysis, but by the Goblins. They were definitely horrible and had tried to kill her at least…five times, but they had tools like buckets and even—it seemed—Skills. So they had classes, like Klbkch said.

They were still monsters, and Erin supposed even monsters had to eat. But even so—it was odd. Now, what had the little Goblin, the one wearing all rags, found?

Perhaps it was nothing, but Erin had seen that smile of satisfaction. She peered for a long time at the ‘bad’ blue fruits.

“I think I need to figure out what a good one looks like.”

Unfortunately, the Goblins had eaten their snack and so Erin had to go all the way back to the blue fruit trees—carefully, watching out for crabs and Goblins. But since they’d already gone foraging, she reasoned they were unlikely to come back.

She did a round trip with an armful of fruits and sat, creating another basket by the river as she tried to cross-reference her fruits with the bad ones.

The problem was, Erin had no idea whether the fruits she had were good. She wished she had whatever the other Goblin had—a way to tell what was safe or not. That was a Skill, and Erin began understanding how valuable it was.

“I could eat mushrooms! Or…maybe not mushrooms because ick. Or bugs? Wait—that’s just as bad. Plants, then. Herbs. And blue fruits. Okay—this fruit and this fruit and this fruit.”

She took three random ones from her collection and put them in the ‘I have no idea’ pile. Then she organized the ones the Goblin had opened in the ‘definitely probably deadly’ pile. After that? It was a game of spot the differences.

Embarrassingly, it took Erin over fifteen minutes, far longer than the little Goblin, to identify what the distinction was. And then of course she tested it by tossing it into the stream and watching which fish really seemed unhappy as the bad fruits ran through their system. Erin supposed many creatures that weren’t…people? Mammals? They seemed to suffer the effects of blue fruit poisoning a lot faster than her.

“Aha! So that’s all it is?”

Mystified, Erin looked down at the bad fruits. She saw almost identical interiors to the good ones. You couldn’t tell if the seed cores were smashed and mixing with the fruit from the inside.

At least—not from the coloration of the blue fruit, or even the smell. Taste? The blue fruits were so sweet it’d be hard to identify, and by that point, you were putting poison in your mouth.

The trick had taken Erin a long while to figure out, but since she knew the little Goblin had seen something, she’d eventually begun prodding the pieces of fruit, wondering if it was just noticing bits of seed core.

Then she saw the difference: all the bad blue fruits were wet. To be more precise, they were actively juicy. Blue liquid ran from the pieces, whereas the other blue fruits refused to produce juice except where they were torn and only when you chewed or mashed them up.

Erin had noticed when she made the blue fruit juice that she’d had to really mash the pieces up to produce the juice. However, in the bad sample group, the fruits were actively watery.

“Maybe the poison is making the fruit like—wetter? Or it’s making the fruit weaker?”

Or perhaps the poison was killing the fruit rind outside the seed. The longer Erin stared, the more the bad fruits seemed to be actively going through rapid decomposition before her eyes. Turning to mushy, nasty pulp.

The blue fruits, the good ones, felt more like oranges in texture; you had to bite and extract the sweet. The bad ones were actively mushing due to the seed cores being compromised.

Erin’s test group of evil fishies certainly seemed to back up her findings; they kept eating the pieces of blue fruit she tossed to them, but they began spitting out the bad ones after a few bites.

As if they could also tell. Well, Erin didn’t want to rely on Goblins and biting fish for evidence of poison, but she had to admit—they seemed to have figured it out.

She gathered up all the remaining blue fruits thoughtfully and put them in her basket. She’d check them all before eating back at the inn. And she’d eat very, very sparingly of the ones that looked good, juice-test or no.

If she got sick, hopefully it would only be lightly. Erin didn’t relish that, but she’d rely on pasta and eggs over the blue fruits for a few days. At least she had something to try.

“And all because of that little Goblin. Huh.”

Erin stared back at where the Goblins had been. That was the most pleasant encounter she’d had with them—mostly because they hadn’t known she was here. Then a thought occurred to her, and her face fell.

“Aw. No. Oh no. Am I…dumber than Goblins?”



——



The longer than expected outing had one benefit. Erin was mostly over her food poisoning bout as she returned to the inn. She still had a vague desire to retch, but it was mostly gone. Erin climbed up the hill, shuddering at how close it had been. She’d gotten off lucky, she supposed. It had only been an hour or so of feeling terrible. If it were actually serious—

Erin had to stop and smile. Serious? Back when she hadn’t been struggling to survive, oh, three days ago, being that sick would have ended up with her in bed for the next week.

“And I’d have a team of doctors feeding me pills by the pound too.”

She laughed softly. Then her smile vanished. Erin covered her face with her palm.

She trembled.

And then she walked on. It was getting dark. She couldn’t stop yet. Whether or not she knew it—she was in too much danger.

Something was watching her. And waiting for nightfall.



——



The key to distracting oneself—from the facts and the resulting overwhelming emotions—was motion. Erin moved around the inn and kept busy. She cleaned the vomit off the floor, washed the plates as best she could with some of the water, helped herself to a bit of pasta, and brought out more plates and silverware to the common room. Then she stored the eggs and blue fruit away in one of the cupboards, went upstairs, and cleaned a few rooms. She was moving, but really, she was waiting.

“They said they’d visit. But did they mean that or are they busy? Either way, I can always make more pasta and save some for later, right?”

She had a pot full of hot pasta in the kitchen, and she’d served and eaten her own plate of buttery noodles with blue fruit juice before she realized it was dark. Hopefully, Erin stared out one of the windows, but the grasslands were empty. The sky was so amazingly vast, the stars so numerous. It was beautiful, frightening. Erin would have loved to stare at it if she were at home, yet what she was really hoping to see were two figures. But she didn’t.

“They must be busy.”

Erin sighed to herself. But it wasn’t that early in the night after all. She could wait.

The young woman sat at a table, her stomach full, her clothes torn and dirty, her eyes drooping. But every few minutes, her eyes flicked to the stout wooden door. She was waiting.



——



Senior Guardsman Relc stretched in his chair in the Guard’s barracks. It wasn’t too crowded in the early evening, most [Guards] having checked out already or begun their evening patrols. Those who remained in the building were almost entirely Drakes, aside from a few tall, furry, humanoid guards. And they were all busy with their own tasks.

There was only one exception to the two species in the Watch barracks, and that was him. Klbkch. Relc cast an irritable eye over at the large, hunched insect hovering over a table next to him. Klbkch was industriously writing in a large ledger, pausing every few moments to dip his quill into a pot of ink.

“Are you done logging out for the day yet?”

“Almost.”

Klbkch made a precise notation with a quill on a sheet of parchment. He glanced up, and his dry voice was devoid of exasperation by most standards, but Relc could tell his partner was annoyed. It was the subtle clues, like the way Klbkch stared at him with two arms crossed.

A lot of the new [Guards] couldn’t tell anything about Klbkch—not that they got near him. He was Antinium, and even if he was Senior Guardsman Klbkch, everyone knew who he was and what he represented. But then—this was Liscor, not the army or another city.

Liscor was unique, so you actually had a guardsman duo of Relc and Klbkch. The Antinium clicked his mandibles, and his voice was annoyed.

“There. I have signed us both out. Again.”

“Great. Thanks. Now, wanna go check on that Human? I hear—”

A female Drake shouted at Relc from across the room. She was nowhere as large as Relc, and she wore chainmail and a sword at her hip as she stomped up to him.

“Senior Guardsman Relc, belay that! There’s a brawl in the marketplace. Get over there and stop the fighting!”

He sat up and groaned. Klbkch turned as the Drake pointed. She had light blue scales, almost cobalt, and bright yellow eyes. She also had her badge of office pinned to her chest and—whenever she was talking to Relc—a vexed glare. Right now, the vexation was for the idiots fighting. Relc protested.

“What? Some idiot had to start a fight now of all times? We were going to go back and—”

“Shut up and get moving! I need everyone there, now.”

“But—we’re signed out—”

“We’ll count your hours later, move!”

The Drake strode off, already snapping at another patrol who rushed for the door. Relc stayed where he was for a moment, mouth open in protest. Then he swung himself to his feet.

“…Jerk.”

Klbkch was already signing them back in and checking his gear. He sighed but nodded to Relc. Despite his grumblings, the [Spearmaster] was on his feet fast.

“A pity. Let’s be on our way.”

They headed for the door, and the rest of the [Guards] called for the brawl fell in behind them. They had clubs, truncheons, and shields; neither Relc nor Klbkch went for their spear and swords. Relc made one huge fist and glared at the female Drake in disgust.

“What a pain. Let’s smack some scales-for-brains quick. Maybe we’ll still have time to go to the inn afterwards.”

Klbkch shook his head slowly. He was calculating and reminded Relc of the obvious.

“You know we will be called upon to go after those who got away. And there is damage assessment, guard detail, investigating any burglaries during the violence…”

“Aw.”

“Do not fret. The Human will not be going anywhere.”

“I know, I know. But I was going to eat more pasta and—”

“Relc!”

The angry shout made Relc wince and cover the two holes on the side of his head. The female Drake was pointing as she headed back for the second floor.

“Alright, let’s go. Man, I really hate Captain Z.”

That was his name for her. Klbkch looked reprovingly at Relc as they marched out the doors.

“Don’t insult the Watch Captain while we are within earshot.”

“She can eat my scales. Let’s go and get this over with.”

“After you.”

They sighed as they got back to work. Relc sighed even louder because his stomach was grumbling and he’d promised it pasta. Late shifts and overtime pay, which was nice. But for what? He’d have to grab a snack at midnight, not a proper meal, and visit the inn tomorrow. It was okay for Klbkch; he had no life. But Relc?

He just hoped the [Innkeeper] wouldn’t stay up waiting for him.



——



Erin sat at the bar counter in the inn and waited. All was perfect.

Well, all was sorta perfect. It was at least acceptable. She had a basket of the blue fruits, more pasta in a large pot, and she’d even drawn a fresh bucket of water from the stream. She had very nearly spotless plates and silverware, and, all in all, she was ready for some guests.

If they’d ever arrive. At first, Erin kept checking the door every few minutes, even going to the window to see if she could spot them. But then she found herself leaning back in her chair, waiting—it had been a long day of walking back and forth on top of being sick. She supposed she was still recovering, because she was very, very tired. She wasn’t that hungry, but she wanted to wait for Relc and Klbkch.

Eventually, Erin’s eyes drooped. Her breathing slowed. She fell asleep while dreaming she was still waiting and awake. She was counting blue fruits with the little Goblin when—

Thump. Thump.

Erin woke up with a start. She raised her head and looked around groggily. It was dark. The inn had gone from faint light to no light in what felt like a heartbeat. The set table was almost shrouded as she sat up.

They never came. Or wait—what was this?

Thump. Thump.

Something was at the door. The pounding was low and steady. Erin wiped the drool off of her chin and got up from the table. She must have fallen asleep waiting. But here they were. She stumbled over to the door and shivered.

Odd. The nights were somewhat chilly, but right now it was actually cold. Actually, it wasn’t just cold. It was…frosty?

The door’s handle was covered in a thin layer of ice. From behind the door, Erin sensed something chilling, and she could feel a cold draft blowing from beneath the crack. Or was that the shivering sensation running down her spine?

Thump.

Erin jumped back from the door. That wasn’t knocking. Something was hitting the door. Hard.

“Hey. Who’s there?”

She wished her voice wasn’t so wobbly.

“A visitor.”

Was it a whisper? No. It was more like an echo. It sounded like a loud voice coming from thousands of miles away, and it had an unearthly quality to it. No voice could be so deep, so spine-chilling.

“Um. We’re closed. S-sorry.”

The something on the other side of the door…chuckled. It was probably a chuckle. It was wet and gurgling.

“It matters not. I require sustenance. Food. Provide that to me, and I shall be on my way.”

Food? As in the fleshy variety? Erin shuddered.

“I don’t have any. Go away!”

“I will not be denied. Open this door or face my wrath.”

That was enough for Erin. She backed away from the door.

“I’m warning you! Come in and I’ll, I’ll…”

She looked around desperately. It was too dark, and she’d forgotten where she’d put the Goblins’ knives. Weapon. She needed a weapon.

“Do not anger me further. If you refuse my simple request, I will—”

She didn’t wait to see what the voice would do. She could guess. Instead, Erin ran to the kitchen. She needed a weapon. A knife, a piece of wood, a spatula, anything.

Erin’s hand had found the handle of a pot when the scrape of wood made her breath stop. She’d forgotten. She’d been waiting for Klbkch and his friend. So that meant—

The door was still unlocked.

Something was pushing the door open. Erin sprinted back to the door and threw her weight against it. She knocked back whatever it was, but she couldn’t close the door fully. It was in the way.

“This is unwise. Your insolence will only bring about more punishment.”

The creature hissed at Erin. She could hear it right outside the door. It was pushing, trying to get the door open. But Erin was fueled by pure fear, and she somehow managed to keep the door where it was.

“Mistress. All I ask for is a bit of food. Provide me that and I shall be on my way.”

The skeletal creature reached its hand through the doorway. Something dark dripped down out of its bones. It splashed against the wood and vanished. Its face was—that wasn’t a Human’s skeleton. It was a mask of elongated bone, as long as Erin’s torso. Two jagged nostrils revealed something wet and fleshy, moving in time to the voice behind the bone.

“I do not wish to become angry.”

Her hand was on the cooking pot. Her heart was dead in her chest.

“No.”

“No?”

The skeletal monstrosity seemed to recoil. It pushed the door further open, and something noxious wafted in. It smelled like decay, like worms rotting in an unmarked grave. The monster pushed harder, and Erin’s feet slipped.

“A pity. But I will have you provide me with sustenance nevertheless.”

Erin seized the door and tried to close it, but the creature hurled it open. She fell back and stared in horror.

A thing with too many bones and pieces of flesh gazed down at her. It gave off a ghastly smell, and crimson light flashed from its eyes. A rotting monstrosity garbed in bone. A dead being of some eldritch horror whose ‘arm’ jerked and twitched as it wriggled towards her, brown rot and decay and mildewed skin.

“Give me what I desire. Or I shall—”

Erin screamed and hurled the pot.





1.08


It was instinctual. The black metal pot flew through the air even before the creature finished speaking.

“What the—”

Before the creature was struck by the flying pot, it made a very uncharacteristic, very Human, very surprised sound. After it was struck by the pot, it didn’t make any sounds at all.

The image of the gigantic, skeletal creature wreathed in slime and darkness vanished in an instant. Erin stared as the much more normal figure of an unconscious young man dressed in grey robes appeared on the ground. He was unconscious and already had a big bruise forming on his forehead. She stared at him. She stared at his dirty robes and the flicker of light on the tips of his fingers as the illusion faded.

“…Huh.”



——



The young man was dreaming. Maybe he was dreaming of something nice. Maybe he was reflecting on his life so far and how it had led him here, or his past mistakes. Either way, the bucket of water woke him up.

“What—who dares—?”

The young man sat up, rubbing his head. Erin stared at him. He didn’t seem very mage-like. Or that impressive, for that matter. He had pale skin, brown, unkempt hair, all unwashed and fairly filthy. His fluttering eyes were grey-green, but when they focused, they were sharp as they flickered around and then looked up at her.

He actually didn’t look that bad, although he certainly looked thinner than strictly necessary. What was most off-putting was his smell. A rancid odor that contrived to combine personal body odor with a foul sewer stench. Actually, that smell was probably his clothes, which didn’t look like they’d been washed. Ever.

The mage stared up at Erin and blinked. She stared back.

“So. You’re gonna hurt me if I don’t give you food, huh?”

Erin stood up and cracked her knuckles. It really hurt, but she tried not to let it show. The young man raised one finger and pointed at her. It was only slightly trembling.

“You struck me? Me? How dare you! I will have you know I am a mage of great power, and I will not be—”

The mage cut off quickly as Erin lifted the cast-iron pot up with one hand.

“This. This is a pan.”

Erin waved the metal pot in front of the young man’s head. She saw him glance at it and then colored when she realized her mistake.

“In fact, good Mistress, that is in point of reality—”

“If I say it’s a pan, it’s a pan. The important part is that I’ll hit you with it if you try anything.”

“Oh really?”

The mage sneered at her. Erin took offense to his tone instantly. His voice sounded sort of educated, precisely enunciating each word, but it was acerbic. Sneering was the default mode to his voice. The young man’s gaze darted about, first to Erin, then around. He eyed her pot, but then he lifted one hand. Erin recoiled as the young man’s gaze seemed to brighten. She felt something change and panicked.

“Hey, stop that!”

He ignored her and mumbled something. At once, he vanished. He was gone! A booming echo reverberated throughout the room, wrathful.

“Behold my p—”

Erin swung her pot in the space where the mage had vanished.

Clong.

“Ow!”

The mage reappeared, clutching at the side of his face. Erin raised her pot again, and he raised his hands defensively.

“Try that again and I’ll hit you harder.”

He shielded his face, backing up, but he stumbled on his robe and nearly fell down. He was most likely dazed from two blows to the head, so he raised his hands and sniffed loudly. Despite his situation, he adopted a lecturing, superior tone as he lifted a finger.

“Now look here, there’s no need for violence, Miss. I can see that you are no ordinary plebian fool but an extraordinary plebian. Believe me when I say that is a high compliment from a practitioner of the arcane such as I.”

Erin glared.

“I know what plebian means.”

His mouth opened, and the young man’s supercilious expression turned to worry.

“Ah.”

“One more insult or stupid little invisibility spell and I’ll break something.”

The mage looked surprised.

“You—you could tell it was an invisibility spell?”

Erin rolled her eyes.

“What else could it be? I’ve played D&D.”

The mage blinked at her. Then he muttered to himself in a not-quite whisper.

“How astute. She’s quite intelligent for an [Innkeeper].”

Erin glared. He coughed and avoided her gaze.

“Ahem. Well, I shall be going. I am—terribly sorry for all that. It was just, ah—a spell which I—desperate times make fools of us all. And clearly, not you. Which is why I shall depart and not trouble you again.”

He made a show of standing up and brushing down his robes. Quite a lot of dirt and grime fell to the inn’s floor. Erin stared at it and glared at him harder. He swept her a deep bow and gave her a charming smile. Or what he probably thought was one. The young man reached into his robes, and she lifted the pot, but he held up his other hand hurriedly.

“My apologies, good [Innkeeper], for all these misunderstandings. Please accept this recompense for your wasted time.”

He reached into the pocket of his robes and produced a few bronze coins. He made to offer them to Erin, but when she made no move, he placed them on the table.

“So. You’re paying me for trying to scare me and steal food?”

The mage gave her a winning smile. It did nothing to wipe away Erin’s scowl.

“Harshly put, good Mistress. But yes, I would like to make amends. Let us be quits with no further unpleasantness! Or violence. And I am sure this payment is quite acceptable, is it not?”

Erin stared at the four bronze circles, which he grandly placed next to the bronze coins. She glanced up at his face. He looked entirely reasonable, even apologetic. Her face was impassive and betrayed no emotion whatsoever.

“You’re sweating.”

He began dabbing at his forehead with his robe.

“Am I? Terribly sorry. Let me just, ah…”

Three more coins appeared in the palm of his hand with a flick of the wrist. It looked like a sleight-of-hand trick. A pretty bad one, at that. Erin stared at the seven coins. Not one was silver. Hadn’t Relc given her two silver coins for a meal? She changed her grip on her pot for more striking power.

“Some people don’t like being threatened by a giant skeletal monster from hell.”

“I-I see?”

The number of coins on the table didn’t change. Erin stared at him.

“Some people would take violent offense to being scammed.”

The young man blinked once.

“Ah, this is understandable. But may I remind you that traditionally those who practice magic are beings of great power that should not be crossed?”

Erin wanted to fold her arms, but she kept the pot raised.

“Yeah, and they have fragile bones. I’m sure mages are really scary when they’re far away, but wands aren’t good at blocking frying…pots.”

The mage licked his lips, but his face remained calm.

“Fair point. Let me just amend my fee.”

A silver coin appeared in the palm of his hand. Erin narrowed her eyes and said nothing. Another silver coin appeared, and then a third.

She crossed her arms.

Three more silver coins joined the small pile. The mage was definitely sweating now.

“I, uh, hope this is sufficient, good Mistress. I am of course willing to pay any dues to—to make amends, but I’m slightly low on coin at the moment.”

Erin kept staring.

Very reluctantly, he reached into the belt at his side. He pulled out a gold coin and held it up.

“Would, ah, this do?”

Erin relented a tiny bit. She picked up the coins in his hand without taking the gold coin. She thought she heard him sigh in relief, but his face remained impassive. He was still sweating. She eyed him and nodded to the table.

“You know, I just wanted to see what would happen if I kept on staring at you.”

He tried to hide it, but his eyes widened a moment in what might have been shock or outrage. The young man sniffed and then coughed into one sleeve.

“Ah. Of course. Well, as a practitioner of the mystic arts, I feel it is always wise to be…generous.”

Erin’s face told him how much she believed that. She frowned at the coins she’d taken.

“It would certainly save time. And you know if you paid for everything, you wouldn’t have to try to scare people to get what you want.”

Another sniff, as if she were speaking nonsense. He flicked his fingers dismissively.

“Ah, but money is so…mundane. Where would the enjoyment in life be without variety?”

“Uh huh. And you provide that by threatening people with illusions?”

“Only on occasion. And I quite understand your irate feelings. However, since I believe all is settled, I shall just…”

He edged away from her and towards the door. Along the way, his stomach rumbled and his ears turned red, but he kept walking. Erin sighed and came to a rapid decision.

“Where are you going?”

His shoulders hunched, and Erin saw his hand tighten on the door handle.

“Well, if you have no further need of me…I did pay for my misdeeds, after all. Rather handsomely, I might add, given that no harm was actually done except to my person. So I won’t intrude any fu—”

“Come back here and I’ll feed you.”

He turned around and blinked at her. Erin was already going into the kitchen for a plate and cups.

“Here. Blue juice and some blue fruit. I’ve also got pasta, but I need to warm that up first.”

Erin set the cup and plate down and added three blue fruits on top of it. She expected the mage to dig in immediately or make a snarky comment, but he just turned pale.

“Ah. Am I supposed to eat this?”

“Yeah. It’s food.”

“And I suppose if I don’t, you hit me with that pot, correct?”

He eyed her warily. Erin eyed him back.

“What are you talking about? I’m giving you food. Are you allergic to the color blue or something?”

Once again, the face of her guest seemed caught between wanting to say something and wanting to bolt. He pointed gingerly to the blue fruit.

“Are you aware that, ah, this fruit is poisonous?”

Erin paused, the blue fruit halfway to her lips.

“Poisonous?”

He smiled at her, his face a shade paler than before.

“Highly. The core of the Amentus Fruit causes painful death within hours if eaten. While the outer rind is safe for consumption, the inner seeds are toxic. You are aware of this, right?”

“Um. I am now? I mean, I figured that out earlier. These ones are good. I’ve checked them.”

The look he gave her said that he didn’t believe her. The look she gave him told him that he could eat her food and she didn’t really care if he was poisoned or not. He gulped.

“I see.”

“…Want one?”

The mage eyed the blue fruit apprehensively.

“Do I have the option to refuse?”

Erin sighed.

“Look, it’s safe. I’ve eaten tons of them. Just eat around the core and you’ll be fine, okay? I figured out how to check for good ones. See?”

His was very ripe, non-mushy, and when Erin took a bite to show him, she was sure it wasn’t contaminated. Still, her odd guest made no move towards the plate. He steepled his fingers and gave her a genuinely fake smile.

“Shall we just say I accept your word? I wouldn’t dare question your authority on the subject, good Mistress, it’s just that—”

“Oh come on.”

Erin stomped into the kitchen and grabbed a knife. The mage flinched when she reappeared with it, but she grabbed one of the fruits and began cutting the outer shell of fruit away. She left the seed core on the counter and shoved the diced fruit into a plate. Two more fruits went the same way before she plonked the plate down in front of him.

The seed cores were perfectly intact, too. Whereas the bad ones she’d found had shown hairline cracks when she’d explored the insides. That little Goblin was on to something.

“Here. Totally non-poisonous food ready to be eaten. Happy?”

She glared at him. He gingerly picked up a slice of blue fruit and regarded it apprehensively. He looked ready to refuse, but then both he and Erin heard a loud sound.

It was a growling beast that almost made Erin look for a monster—until she realized it was his stomach. The young man turned beet red, and Erin almost laughed at him. He hesitated, then the fresh food in front of him seemed to do in his last resolve.

“I suppose the toxicity would be acceptable if it were just the fruit. Well then.”

Gingerly, he bit into the fruit and chewed. After a few seconds, he swallowed and took another bite. His eyes widened, and he began chewing vigorously.

In under a minute, the plate was empty and he was wiping the blue dribbles off his mouth with a corner of his robe.

Erin set down a plate of steaming pasta in front of him.

“You’re hungry, aren’t you? Well, eat this.”

“My thanks.”

And it even sounded like genuine thanks. Erin guessed he had been fairly hungry. Actually, now that she looked closer, his robes did seem to hang rather thin on his frame. And if you factored in the dirtiness and general smell he was now giving off, she guessed he was in pretty rough shape.

Still, he ate with all the vigor and energy of two men, so she supposed he was still okay. And once she’d refilled his plate, he slowed down. After a while, he stopped, probably to let his stomach expand, and regarded her.

“So, if I might inquire, what is a delicate flower of effervescence doing in such a locale?”

Erin glared at him.

“Are you trying to sound impressive or do you actually talk like that?”

He drew himself upright and looked indignant.

“How rude. My advanced lexicon and diction is merely a result of my education, not a façade that—”

“Stop it. You sound like an idiot.”

His eyes narrowed, but Erin’s glare out-glared his own. He snapped back testily.

“Fine. I suppose there’s no use attempting to impress anyone who actually has the rudiments of an education. But my question remains: what’s a young g—woman like you doing out here alone?”

His voice was no less haughty and condescending than before, but at least he wasn’t dropping seven-letter word scores every other sentence. Erin decided that was worth a few more seconds of forbearance. That didn’t mean she had to be polite, though.

“I got lost.”

He raised an eyebrow.

“Lost? It takes quite some skill to wander this far into the Floodplains. Or are you a local? I very much doubt you are, though.”

“Floodplains? What are you talking about?”

The mage waved a hand around lazily.

“This area is known as the Floodplains of Liscor. It’s because of a lovely natural phenomenon of the geography and—but you aren’t from here, if you don’t know about this area. But I would have guessed as much since you are Human. As far as I can tell.”

“I am completely, 100% Human, thanks. And why does that make a difference?”

“The locals don’t like Humans that much. Which is a fact anyone in a hundred miles would know. This is the border to the Drake lands to the south. But you…didn’t know that, did you?”

He gulped down a few more noodles while watching her. Erin’s mouth opened, and he frowned at her.

“You truly didn’t? Well, well. A traveller who doesn’t know anything about where she is…teleportation spell? Amnesia magic?”

Erin blinked at him.

“How’d you guess? Actually, you’re only half-right, but how’d you guess?”

He shrugged.

“It’s common. Well, not common exactly, but it’s the only explanation I can think of. Back in the Academy…it was not an unheard of phenomenon. I suppose you could have also been carried off by one of the local avian species, but they tend to drop their prey and chew their bones.”

Erin shuddered.

“They grow that big? No; don’t tell me. I don’t want to know. But you’re right. It was a teleportation spell. Or something. It didn’t feel like a spell, but…”

“And you’re an expert on [Teleportation] spells? I see.”

This time, the sneer in his tone was a bit too pronounced. Erin’s hand twitched towards the pot.

“I’m not. But I’ll just bet those kinds of spells make a flash of light or a weird sound, right?”

He looked reluctant.

“…Perhaps.”

“And anyways, I didn’t see any idiot in robes waving a wand around and shouting ‘abracadabra’. And there aren’t wizards where I—I mean, I’m sure it wasn’t a…I just turned the corner and here I was.”

Erin trailed off, but the mage’s eyes were suddenly filled with interest. He leaned forwards in his chair.

“Really? You just turned a corner and you were in a completely different place?”

“Yeah. It’s been fun and games ever since.”

He sat back.

“Fascinating. That has to be a very high-level phenomenon or artifact. Seamless teleportation without any visual cues and even sensation at that range? Not even our Archmages could…fascinating indeed.”

“Fascinating as in ‘I know what spell that was?’”

The mage caught himself and looked up. He hesitated, then shook his head.

“No, no. I have no clue what kind of magic would be capable of that, if any. That sounds like a spell which—well, suffice it to say I know of only a few living mages who might even attempt such a feat. But if you were the target, it still makes no sense. Why would anyone waste such a powerful spell on someone as mundane as…as…”

“Me?”

He avoided her gaze and wiped his mouth on his sleeve, which arguably made his mouth dirtier.

“Yes, well. I see you’ve established yourself quite nicely. This is—is quite a lovely establishment you’ve founded. Very quaint.”

“It’s not mine. I just found it and somehow became an [Innkeeper] by cleaning up around here.”

“Indeed. That is quite often the case. However, you seem to have taken to it well. This area is inhospitable to most Humans.”

“Thanks, I guess. But if it’s so lousy—and it is, I totally know—why are you here?”

He blinked at her.

“Me?”

“Yes, you. I told you why I’m here. What’s a raggedy mage doing scaring people for food?”

He swept his robes around himself defensively.

“My physical appearance has nothing to do with—”

“Just answer the question.”

He looked uncomfortable.

“I, ah, came here to expand my horizons. This part of the continent—well, the local collection of city-states are quite hospitable to those people trying to avoid undue attention. Besides, food is plentiful if one has certain skills.”

“Like pretending to be a horrible monster?”

The young man was having a real problem looking anywhere near Erin. He flushed slightly and twiddled his thumbs together, then cleaned his plate with a fork.

“One does what one must to survive.”

She looked at him.

“I suppose one does. Does it make you feel good, stealing from innocent people?”

Her words turned his face bright red. He set down his fork and pushed his empty plate back. The mage looked up at Erin, and his eyes focused with sudden anger.

“You would not be so quick to judge if you knew more about the people you’re defending. Especially this city.”

The young woman hesitated only a second, but then put her hands on her hips.

“Maybe not. But then again, the only two I’ve met were quite polite, paid for their meal, and didn’t try to threaten me when I first met them. Whereas the first Human I met was you.”

Again, Erin and her guest locked eyes. This time, he broke away first. He got to his feet with a swirl of his robes.

“I see I’ve overstayed my welcome. Well, your meal was quite adequate, good Mistress. Please accept my heartfelt gratitude.”

He probably meant to stalk away, but Erin barred his path.

“Here.”

She offered him two blue fruits. He hesitated.

“Take them. You look thin, and maybe if you eat them you’ll stop bothering other people. Thank you for your business. Come by again and I’ll feed you. Try to scare me and I’ll hit you harder next time.”

He blinked at her, but accepted the fruits anyways.

“Um. Thank you.”

They stood there awkwardly for a moment.

“It occurs to me that I never asked your name.”

“Me? Oh, I’m Erin. Erin Solstice. And you are?”

The mage took a step back and gave her an elegant bow. Erin stared at the blue stain on the sleeve of his robe.

“Pisces, practitioner of magic, student of Wistram Academy, specialized in the Elementalist and Illusionary schools of magic with additional competencies in multiple spell schools.”

Erin raised an eyebrow.

“Good for you. Got a hobby?”

He hesitated and put one hand on the doorknob. The mage gave Erin a long look and murmured.

“…Necromancy.”

He closed the door as Erin stared.





1.09


At some point, Erin slept. At some point, Erin woke up. These were minor details. What mattered was the sound.

Knock. Knock.

She tried hard to ignore it. But it kept going and going, waking her up from her peaceful oblivion.

After a while, the knocking was too much to ignore. Erin opened her eyes and sat up. It was far too bright in the world. And noisy.

Someone was knocking at the front door. The locked front door. Erin thought about going back to sleep, but the knocking hadn’t ceased for the last few minutes. It was the kind of knocking that said the person on the other side knew there was someone to bother, and they would develop the cadence and volume to be annoying if they did this for an hour straight. So, at last, Erin reluctantly got up and opened the door.

She greeted the knocker with the world’s hugest scowl, like she would her mother waking her up early after a late-night study session.

“What do you want?”

Pisces the friendly mage gave her a brilliant smile.

“Greetings, good Mistress. I was wondering if I could impose upon you—”

Erin shut the door. After a few seconds, she opened it.

“Fewer words. Get to the point.”

The [Necromancer] looked haughty—but then caught himself as an audible little growl escaped his stomach. He coughed delicately into one sleeve.

“Um. Very well. Are you open today?”

The [Innkeeper] actually turned around blankly.

“Who?”

“You. This establishment.”

“Here?”

Pisces blinked a few times. He spoke very carefully, pointing at the ground and enunciating each word clearly.

“Is this place open? Do you provide sustenan—food? I pay, I eat?”

Erin finally caught on and glared blearily at him. She thrust the door open further.

“It’s early. Yes, I guess I am open. Come in.”

She stomped inside. After a moment, Pisces followed.

“I would like to peruse your menu if I m—”

Erin’s glower cut him off. She came back with four blue fruits and tossed them on the table. Pisces stared at the fruit and opened his mouth. He looked at Erin’s expression and amended whatever he was going to say.

“If I might trouble you for a knife and fork—”

She slapped them down on the table and walked away.

“And a plate?”

Erin’s service came with a huge frown. But he did get the plate. She would have liked to go back to sleep, but the sounds of Pisces shifting and the clink of silverware on pottery was too distracting. Instead, she got her own blue fruit and started a fire to warm up her pasta. She munched on the sweet fruit in dour silence.

Outside, it began to rain.



——



Rain. Rain fell down from the heavens like hail. Well, actually it fell like rain, but these were bigger drops that fell a lot faster and harder than normal. The hammering of rain against the rooftop was nearly deafening.

Nearly. Behind her, Pisces set down his knife and fork and sighed loudly. Erin wished he weren’t here. It wasn’t that she disliked company; she was starved for it. She just wished her company wasn’t him.

“That’s a lot of rain.”

She was talking to herself, but he seemed to take it as an invitation to speak.

“It happens quite often. A natural weather phenomenon, you know.”

Erin turned and glared at Pisces. He raised both eyebrows and held up his cup.

“Another drink if you would. My cup has run dry.”

“Where did you find—stay out of my kitchen.”

“I would be only too happy to. But I fear I was quite parched, and if you would be so good…?”

Erin’s eye twitched. But she went and got a cup for herself as well. She didn’t pour his drink, but rather set the pitcher of juice on the other end of the table so he had to reach for it. She glanced out the window and saw, well, nothing.

Even the darn mountains had been obscured by the kind of rainfall that made you hope your gutters were clear back home. Erin could barely see ten feet into the downpour. She shivered; that kind of onslaught was one thing in her home or indoors, but this inn felt a bit too—fragile. Pisces, for himself, seemed quite glad he was here, not anywhere else. Erin turned to him and gestured outside.

“Does it rain like this a lot?”

He took his time replying, and when he did, his voice was distinctly self-satisfied, lecturing. Almost like a pompous college professor—not that Erin had ever gone to any classes, just been accepted.

“Seldom. It is a seasonal weather pattern to rain like this in the spring. Fall downpours like these are an aberration. Normally, I would not hazard a guess at how long the rain would fall, but someone has been interfering with the weather. So we’ll have a brief storm, that’s all. Hardly anything as memorable as magical rain.”

That statement was loaded. Erin took the bait because she had to.

“Interfering with the weather? How? And what do you mean—magical rain? Like what?”

He smirked at her. She noted with displeasure that he was already on his second cup of blue juice.

“With magic, how else? Some shortsighted fool must have cast a localized weather control spell. Impressive, I suppose, but clumsy in execution. As for magical rain—have you never observed glowing rain in any color? Magical typhoons? Ah…raining toads?”

Erin glanced back at the furious downpour—it did indeed seem to be lessening already.

“Raining toads? Doesn’t that only happen when a tornado picks them up?”

Pisces hesitated. Erin turned back just in time to see his look of surprise covered by an attempt at banal amusement. He made a show of taking a sip from his cup.

“Ahem. Of course, that is how the phenomenon actually occurs. But the impetus is largely magical…I see you know your way around some natural events. This particular storm will not be raining any creatures, however. It truly was someone simply sending unwanted rain our way. It may be a scandal, although given how the Drake cities squabble—I detected it from the south. Perhaps as far as Pallass.”

Erin had no idea what Pallass was, but other cities of Drakes? She leaned too-casually on the table, now giving Pisces her full attention.

“Wow, that’s far, right? Wouldn’t you have to be a pretty powerful sorcerer to do that?”

“The term is mage, good Mistress.”

“The name is Erin, idiot.”

He smirked, already cocky again.

“Aha. Accept my apologies. But if you are referring to one of my exalted brethren, mage is the best term to use.”

Erin stared at him. He didn’t appear abashed in any way.

“You don’t have wizards or sorcerers or…warlocks? Witches? You’re all just mages?”

Pisces flicked his fingers haughtily, then decided to wipe them on his robes instead.

“I did not say specialization is absent from the magical world. Rather, shall we say that those are titles for mages who meet certain requirements? A [Wizard] is an arcane researcher and true student of the arcane arts. Such individuals are similar to myself, but prefer to study the mainstream branches of magic. [Sorcerers], on the other hand, are quite simplistic and refer to those who use no spellbooks and have little formal education. [Warlocks] obtain their powers from other sources such as summoning, while [Witches] practice alchemy along with specialized schools of magic. Their…very peculiar magic, which is so rooted in folklore. Nevertheless, [Mage] remains the generally accepted title to refer to all those who practice magic as a catchall moniker…”

He trailed off. Erin was staring at him. Pisces gave her a confident smirk. She raised her eyebrows.

“Okay. So you’re saying [Mage] means anyone who uses magic. Next time, just say that.”

His face visibly fell. Pisces moodily stabbed at a piece of blue fruit.

“You asked. I was merely fulfilling my role as a guest.”

“Good. For you. So what, a—mage did this?”

He shrugged.

“Yes. And it’s not as if this is a particularly difficult task. I realize it may look so to the uninitiated, but a spell like this could easily be cast by a level 30 [Mage]. Less, I suppose, if the individual were specialized.”

“So…?”

“As I said, not that impressive. Many mages could cast a spell like this.”

“Can you?”

Pisces paused. He chewed slowly, looking past Erin.

“My specialization lies in other areas.”

“Like dead bodies.”

The young man’s jaw tensed ever-so-slightly. Erin saw his thin frame—and he was thin and hungry, judging by how fast he’d eaten her blue fruits—shift in his chair. Pisces glanced at the door and avoided Erin’s gaze and drained his cup.

“Merely another branch of magic, good Mistress Erin. I note you don’t have the same aversion as a less-informed fool. Let me assure you—”

Erin stared at him. She opened her mouth, but then the door slammed open. Both Erin and Pisces turned as a wet, dark figure sauntered into the inn and threw his arms wide.

“Good morning everyone! Weird Ant behind me, friendly Human, and—oh.”

Relc strode into the inn, beaming, then visibly did a double-take when he saw Pisces. The [Necromancer] jerked in his seat, then froze. Klbkch closed the door and bowed slightly at Erin.

“Please pardon our intrusion. Is this establishment open for business?”

“What? Oh. Yeah.”

Erin scrambled for words. Relc was still staring at Pisces, who studiously ignored him as he refilled his cup. She smiled at Relc, glancing at Pisces.

“Hey, you two! Klb—Klbk? It’s been a while. I guess. But come in. Or come in more. Have a seat. Want something to eat?”

“If you would be so kind. Thank you, Miss Erin. It is Klbkch, but you may refer to me as Senior Guardsman if that is simpler.”

Klbkch wiped his feet and stepped over to a table. Relc was still staring. He frowned at Pisces then jabbed a claw his way before eying Erin suspiciously.

“You multiplied. Can Humans do that?”

“What? Oh no, that’s just Pisces. He’s annoying, so ignore him.”

Erin waved Relc over to a seat as she went to the kitchen for plates. Relc kept staring until Klbkch kicked him and motioned him to a seat.

“I believe staring is considered rude in most cultures. Sit down and cease your rudeness.”

Relc glared and sat, rubbing his leg. Klbkch turned and nodded to Pisces.

“Please excuse my companion’s lack of tact.”

Pisces waved his fork airily, but Erin, poking her head out of the kitchen, realized the young man was no longer smiling. He had pushed his chair back from the table, and he kept glancing her way. It didn’t stop his mouth from running, though.

“I paid no attention. The plebian masses are a burden to be endured; I bear no ill will to the misinformed or ignorant for their rudeness.”

Klbkch and Relc exchanged a glance.

“Indeed. It has been nice to make your acquaintance.”

“Humans. They’re so—”

Erin reemerged from the kitchen, trying to hold a pot of hot noodles and several plates with only two hands. She interrupted the two.

“Do you guys want pasta or blue fruit?”

Relc broke off, coughing.

“Ah. Eh. Um, what I meant was—”

Klbkch raised one hand politely as he kicked Relc subtly again.

“I would be delighted to try the blue fruit. I believe my tongue-tied partner would like some as well.”

“Right. Food. I’ll have some.”

Pisces waved his fork again.

“And me. A second plate and a refill of my drink, if you would.”

There was something so presumptuous about his tone that Erin scowled. She slowly walked into the kitchen, put the pot back down, and then came out. She jabbed a thumb over her shoulder.

“You want pasta? It’s in the kitchen. Get it yourself.”

Pisces’ outraged sniff at the discrepancy in service was ignored. Turning her back on him, Erin smiled at Relc and Klbkch.

“So, um, hi again. It’s been a while. Klb…Klbkch and…?”

Klbkch nodded while Relc looked expectant.

“Um. Uh…”

“Relc.”

Klbkch murmured softly. Erin beamed desperately.

“Relc! Right, right.”

“What? How come you remembered this idiot’s name and not mine?”

Relc looked aggrieved. Erin blushed.

“Um, sorry.”

The Drake leaned over the table, frowning. He looked bigger today, or perhaps it was being able to contrast him with Pisces. Relc was over six feet tall without the long neck spines that ran from the back of his head like a thin mohawk. He was also, Erin realized, wearing all-leather armor, and today, he’d leaned his spear against the table.

He even had a shortsword at his side and a dagger and a belt with two glowing bottles and a few pouches.

Belt pouches seemed like a style in this world, because Pisces had them—and so did Klbkch. Although—Erin noticed now—the Antinium had two swords sheathed at his waist. And two daggers.

Wow, they were armed. Was this the level of police in this world? Then again—if that was the case, Erin supposed they were just regularly armed. But it might be why Pisces kept glancing at them. He had no weapons, she noted, just a stick at his side.

Wait, was that a wand? Erin turned and stared at it, but Relc tapped the table, interrupting her train of thought.

“Aren’t I the better-looking one here? What gives?”

Erin turned and gave him an embarrassed smile.

“Sorry. It’s just—uh, you know. I’ve got a bad memory.”

“Really?”

“…No. Sorry. It’s just been a busy two days.”

“Oh.”

He looked deflated. Erin tried to cheer him up.

“Relc! I’ve got the name, now. And I’ve got more pasta. Well, it’s old pasta, but it still tastes good! And more blue juice. And blue fruit! It’s, uh, not poisonous if you only eat the outer bit.”

“Ooh, pasta!”

Relc perked up instantly. Erin went to fetch the pasta and placed two steaming plates in front of the two.

“My thanks.”

Klbkch nodded at Erin, and both began eating. Around mouthfuls, Relc eyed Erin and then Pisces.

“So, how’re you doing? Level up again?”

“Actually, I did. Right after you two left.”

“Ooh, congratulations! Did you get a new skill?”

“[Basic Crafting]. It helped me make a basket out of grass.”

He chuckled knowingly.

“That’s quite useful! Most craftsman and artisan classes get that early on. I guess [Innkeepers] are sorta like that, right? Got to take care of the inn, repair windows, fix tables, and all that.”

“I guess. I haven’t ever tried that, and besides, I don’t have a hammer. Actually, I’ve never swung a hammer in my life.”

“Well, you’ve got the Skill for it, so it’ll be a breeze. And you can buy a hammer no problem. Just head down to the city, and you can get a good one for only a silver coin or two. Tell you what, if you’re ever in the area, I’ll help you get one at a discount.”

“Really? That’s really generous. Thank you.”

Erin smiled hesitatingly at Relc, who grinned back at her as he slurped down a noodle. Klbkch set down his fork and nodded at his companion.

“Not entirely. I do believe my companion would earn a small fee for directing any business to his associates.”

Relc glared at Klbkch. He tried to kick him, but the Antinium had scooted his chair back too far. They were both sitting fairly wide of the table, Erin realized. Oddly so.

“Shut up. Do you have to ruin everything I say?”

“I am merely pointing out the truth.”

“Well…stop it.”

Erin had to smile as the two began bickering. However, she was the only one amused. Across the inn, Pisces drained his mug and plonked it down on the table.

“If we’re done with the lovely chatting, my glass is empty. Isn’t attending to one’s customers part of my service?”

Erin glared. Relc glared too. Klbkch—well, she still couldn’t read the ant man’s expression, but he definitely gave off a silent air of disapproval.

“Nice customer you’ve got here.”

“Yeah. Hey—shut up!”

Pisces raised his brows.

“How discourteous. I believe I shall bring my business elsewhere next time.”

“I don’t want it anyways. Besides, you tried to rob me last time. You’re here on sufferance because I feel bad for you.”

He sighed and rolled his eyes heavenward. Erin sniffed and debated whether she should refill his glass anyways, but felt a sharp poke in her side. She screamed and jumped.

“Sorry.”

“Don’t—don’t do that!”

Erin rubbed at where Relc’s claw had poked her. He looked startled at her reaction and actually apologetic.

“Sorry. Again. But…you said rob? As in, that guy over there tried to rob you?”

Relc’s voice was a low hissing whisper as he glanced over at Pisces. He needn’t have bothered, though. Pisces was still engrossed in his cup. Erin grinned maliciously and whispered back.

“Yeah. Last night, I was visited by a scary monster. But when I hit it with a pa—pot, it turned out just to be him. So I got him to pay up for scaring me. That covers all the food he ate, I guess.”

“The fee was extorted under duress.”

“Shut up! You’re lucky I didn’t just toss you in the stream and let the fish eat you!”

Klbkch and Relc exchanged a glance. Relc gave the Antinium a slow nod, and Klbkch returned it. Relc turned a goggle-eyed gaze back to Erin.

“And…you let him come back for breakfast?”

“Well, it’s not like he’s dangerous. Just annoying.”

“And you didn’t think to report him to anyone?”

“Like who?”

Erin stared blankly at Relc. He stared at her. Klbkch finished his plate of noodles and set down his fork. Then he stared at Erin too. She looked at the [Guardsmen] and slapped her forehead.

“Oh. Oh. I forgot. And besides, you weren’t here yesterday.”

Klbkch nodded.

“Very true. Our absence was most lamentable. But allow us to perform our duty now. Incidentally, Mistress Solstice, the pasta was delicious.”

“Yeah, it’s great! Hold on.”

Relc grabbed the fork and started shoveling the pasta in his mouth. He was able to cram nearly half the plate down his throat in one huge gulp and munched down the rest in seconds. Erin stared with fascinated horror and a tiny bit of envy as he gobbled.

That done, Relc exchanged a glance with Klbkch. Then he turned to Pisces.

“Hey, you!”

Pisces looked up with a scowl. He glared at Relc and made an irritable harrumph.

“Do you want something? I don’t do magic upon request. If you seek a certain spell, I would be happy to discuss my remunerations…later.”

“Really?”

Relc grinned in his seat. He shifted, exposing one huge bicep, as he moved his right arm towards his spear. Erin felt a prickle run down her spine. Wait. What was…was what she thought about to happen? No way. No—

“How about you do the magic spell where you turn into a monster? I’d love to see that. Or better yet, do you have a spell to get out of trouble? Because you’re going to need one now.”

Pisces’ face went blank. His eyes flicked to Erin and then back to Relc and Klbkch. Erin saw his jaw tense, and then he smiled at her. A glassy, empty smile. She felt a pang in her chest, and she didn’t know why. Only that the slightly supercilious look in his gaze had turned to something blankly hostile. No…resigned? As if he had expected…

The young man made a show of standing up, dusting off his robes.

“Ah. I see the good [Innkeeper] holds a grudge. Well, I’m not sure what she told you two, but I assure you, I have compensated her more than adequately for my…mistake. It’s nothing two soldiers need concern themselves with.”

“Oh, but it is, it is! And you’re wrong, by the way.”

“About what?”

Relc exchanged a glance with Klbkch. He grinned. Or rather, his mouth opened and he showed Pisces his teeth.

“We’re no soldiers. We’re [Guardsmen]. And we’ve been looking for the bastard who’s been robbing homes with illusion spells.”

“Ah.”

For a second, Pisces was very still. Then, with a surprising burst of speed, he sprinted for the door. Erin saw his legs move—then he flickered forwards.

It was like he teleported! One second he was there, the next, five feet away, lunging for the doorknob! But he stumbled, nearly falling over himself, arms flailing. He would have still gotten out except for how fast the two [Guards] reacted.

Relc kicked himself back from the table as his right arm snatched the spear. That was why he had been sitting so far back—he whirled the spear up and threw it in one motion. Erin was only aware of a blur of movement and the whoosh of air past her face. She screamed, and his spear blew past her ear, but it didn’t strike Pisces. The spear flew between his legs as he tried to grab the doorknob and tripped him up. He sprawled to the ground as Relc pushed his chair back.

Klbkch was already on his feet. Like Relc, he’d given himself plenty of space. He didn’t draw his swords, just strode over to Pisces and put one arm in a lock. Another of Klbkch’s arms held Pisces’ head down.

“Do not move. You are under arrest for intimidation and attempted theft. Remain still. Any sudden moves will result in bodily harm.”

With one arm, Klbkch dragged Pisces up. The mage didn’t struggle as Klbkch deposited him back in his chair. Relc grinned at Erin as he picked up his spear. Pisces was panting, looking from Klbkch to Relc with clear unease.

“Good throw, huh?”

She tried to answer and croaked.

“Y-yeah.”

Relc’s eyes widened slightly.

“Oops. Sorry, did I scare you? I forgot normal people aren’t used to that. Don’t worry—I never miss when I throw.”

Erin kept looking at Pisces. His eyes darted around the room, but Klbkch was standing right over him. She nodded slowly—what were they going to do with…?

“I’m sure. I’m sure. And I’m not scared. Just—surprised.”

“Good, good.”

Relc patted Erin gently on the back. She nearly fell out of her chair but caught herself on the table. He didn’t notice. Relc sauntered over to Pisces and grinned down at him.

“Gotcha. Tried to run from me, did you? No one ever gets away.”

He looked over at his companion.

“Klbkch, got anything to tie him up with?”

Klbkch shook his head.

“Alas, I did not anticipate an arrest, and my gear is signed out at the barracks. I am without manacles or spell-bind rope. We shall have to be attentive with its lack. Unless Miss Solstice has anything to bind him with?”

Klbkch looked at Erin. She spread her hands. So there was a prison? In the city she’d never been to?

“Uh, no. No, sorry.”

“A pity. But we shall do without.”

“Indeed you will. This is an affront!”

Pisces tried to push Klbkch away. His face was pale and sweaty, but he still maintained his haughty tone, if slightly strained.

“I am completely innocent—utterly so. These baseless accusations are false and—”

“You are lying.”

Klbkch said it flatly and without a hint of doubt.

“[Detect Guilt] is a basic Skill most [Guardsmen] get. I can sense your guilt, which is enough for me to justify this arrest.”

“Plus, we already know all about you and your crimes.”

Relc folded his arms and grinned even wider. His teeth were yellow, and very, very sharp.

“We’ve been looking for you, Mister Mage. Or should I say, the scary creature that threatens travellers and people living by themselves? You’ve been stealing food and money for nearly a month. There’s even a bounty on your head, which I’d love to collect.”

Erin stared at Pisces, who’d turned a paler shade of white, but Relc wasn’t done.

“Okay. Here’s what I’m thinking. Me and my friend here will drag you out back, beat you with sticks or rocks for a while, and then drag you back to the city for a reward. Then we’ll give half to our lovely innkeeper here. Sound good?”

Pisces’ smile was strained by now, and he shifted, but Klbkch was leaning on his shoulder, pressing him down in his seat.

“Actually, I would prefer—”

“Too bad!”

Relc cracked his knuckles. Erin, who had been staring in fascination and horror, raised a hand.

“Um. Isn’t that wrong?”

“Wrong? Why would it be wrong?”

Erin searched for words as Relc stared at her blankly.

“Aren’t there rules? Like, rules against police—guardsmen hurting people once they’re caught? Like…like no beating someone once they’re on the ground?”

Relc stared at her. He turned to Klbkch.

“Do we have rules like that?”

Klbkch let go of Pisces to scratch at his head. He stepped back, but kept one hand on the hilt of his swords as he talked, keeping Pisces well within range.

“I believe that may be a Human standard.”

“Oh, good. I got worried there for a second.”

“Yes, we wouldn’t want to ruin the enjoyment of mindless thugs like yourself.”

Pisces sneered at Relc. He seemed incapable of keeping his mouth shut even when it was for his own good. Relc made a fist, and he flinched.

“Hold on, hold on. We don’t need to beat up Pisces. Like I said, he only tried to rob me. And I already hit him with a pot. What’s this about beating him up?”

Erin grabbed Relc’s arm. It was instinctive, but once she touched his scales, she nearly jumped away. His skin, or rather, scales, were surprisingly cool and easy to grip. But it felt so alien to Erin that she was quite unnerved. It made everything seem frighteningly real.

Relc glanced at Erin and peeled her off gently. He was so strong that he broke her grip effortlessly with just two of his fingers.

“Don’t worry, miss. We’ll do the punching outside where you don’t have to see.”

“Or—or you could not. Isn’t that what nice guardsmen do? You could just arrest him and skip the punching, right?”

The Drake nodded with a blank, uncomprehending, cheerful look on his face.

“Yeah, but he called me a common thug. I want to punch him for that.”

“Well—he’s a jerk. But I mean, you’re a guardsman. Insults like that are ten a penny.”

“Ten a what?”

“I believe she is saying insults to our position are quite common.”

Klbkch clarified. He looked at Erin, who shrugged awkwardly and gave him a sheepish smile.

“What?”

Relc seemed slightly hurt. He looked at Erin with his eyes narrowed slightly. But rather than angry, that somehow made his face look sad.

“No one insults me regularly. Except Watch Captain Z and Klb, come to think of it. People like me. Everyone likes us. We’ve got a special job.”

“But one you sign up for, right? I mean, sure, it’s a great job, but—it’s just a job, right?”

Erin faltered. Relc was staring at her in disbelief. His tone rose in indignation.

“It’s not just a job. It’s a highly prestigious job! Not just anyone can be part of the city guard, let alone a Senior Guard.”

Erin blinked.

“Really? I thought you just…signed up.”

Relc scoffed. He turned to Klbkch.

“Signed up? Can you believe this? Humans.”

Klbkch was unimpressed. He carefully munched piece after piece of blue fruit.

“Perhaps if you explained our function more properly there would be no need for outrage. Clearly, the nature of guardspeople differs culturally. I thought Humans did it quite similarly in the north, but…elaborate, Relc.”

“Right, well. It’s still not—okay.”

Erin crossed her arms. Pisces sneered and took another swallow of juice from the table. He began mumbling to himself, but Erin, Relc, and Klbkch ignored him.

Relc sighed. He scratched the spines at the top of his head.

“Look, I’m not sure what Humans do, but in our city, the city watch isn’t like mercenaries or personal bodyguards. We don’t just sign up. We have to be voted in.”

“Really?”

“Really. See, we’ve gotta get at least fifty ordinary citizens to vouch for us before we’re sworn in. And to become Senior Guardsmen like us, you’ve got to get at least four hundred. Impressive, right?”

Relc grinned and pulled something out of the belt at his waist. He showed Erin a crimson badge edged with gold and striped twice with purple. It was shiny. It had the logo of a city, well, a stylized city, over…Erin squinted. Was that water? Little wavy lines. It was quite beautiful, and she had to guess it was costly.

“Nice. So that’s your official badge?”

The Drake polished it on his front as he placed it back in his belt pouch.

“Yeah. We’ve got to keep it on us at all times. Some guys wear it on their chests, but it can get ripped off. Besides…”

He tapped his scaly arm.

“Doesn’t stick so well on scales. Anyways, we’ve gotta pay a fine if we lose it, so why risk it, right? I only need it when I want to prove who I am or pull rank, anyways.”

“Fascinating. But it’s still the elevated status of a common enforcer when all is said and done, isn’t it?”

Pisces sneered at Relc. He seemed full of confidence all of a sudden. Relc glared, making another fist the size of a brick.

“You’re still under arrest. I can hit you. It’s only because I’m being considerate of Miss Solstice here that I don’t. But I will. If you don’t shut up.”

Eyebrows raised, Pisces drew a finger across his lips.

“Pardon me. I would not dare to interrupt such august personages such as yourself. Please, proceed.”

Erin sighed, and Klbkch made a sound that sounded quite similar. Relc, on the other hand, just scratched his head.

“Right. Good. Anyways, we’re the ones with weapons, and you’re just a [Mage]. Not a high-level one either or you’d be teleporting away.”

Klbkch nodded.

“Or destroying us in a number of ways. The lack of lightning falling from the sky or [Fireballs] confirms this.”

Erin, suddenly quite nervous, edged behind a table. Her wooden table and the wooden inn.

“You sure about that? Really sure, I mean?”

Relc grinned at her. It was a grin with entirely too many teeth.

“Don’t worry, Miss. He’s no threat or we’d have taken him out when we first realized who he was. He looked more dangerous than he turned out to be. You see, both of us can tell if we’re in danger or the enemy is strong. This idiot couldn’t even use [Flash Step] properly!”

The [Necromancer] turned beet red, but Erin was fascinated.

“You can do that? Like—sensing each other’s power levels? Really? How?”

The Drake’s mouth opened, and he eyed Klbkch, who scratched at his antennae. However, Pisces interrupted with a huge sneer of his own.

“A keen observer would discern his opponent’s weaknesses and strengths and make assumptions based on their actions and ability. These two, on the other hand, are just using a Skill.”

Relc eyed him. So did Klbkch, but it was more subtle. The Drake shrugged, unperturbed.

“Well, he’s right. We do have Skills. They’re part of our classes, although in my case I’ve got [Dangersense]. But I’m also a former soldier. And Klb? He’s the Slayer. We can tell you’re not hot stuff, Human.”

Slayer? Erin glanced at Klbkch, and the Antinium’s mandibles lowered and came together as he stared at Relc. The Drake lifted a claw, wincing apologetically. What did that mean? He hurried on; if anyone reacted, it was Pisces, who turned dead white as he stared up at Klbkch.

“My scales aren’t itching, so your Human friend here isn’t that good at magic. They always itch when I’m in danger. That’s not a Skill, either. But your friend can’t even trigger my [Dangersense]. Not even a little ring.”

Erin held up her hands, hesitating between Pisces and Klbkch. Slayer. Did that mean he slew…?

“He’s not my friend.”

Relc shrugged.

“But he’s Human.”

The Drake said that like it meant everything.

“That’s—”

Erin struggled for a response. Meanwhile, Pisces’ sneer deepened, and he curled his lip, oblivious to the danger.

“Spoken like a truly ignorant fool. What would you know of magical mastery? My powers may not lie in mere confrontation, but I assure you, I have more power in my fingernails than you have in your entire brutish body.”

Relc stepped forwards, fist raised.

“Okay, that’s it. Close your eyes, Miss—”

For one moment, Erin wasn’t sure if she wanted to get between Relc and Pisces or duck out of the way. Klbkch made the decision for her. He grabbed Relc, and pulled him back. Not easily; but there was more strength in those wiry ant arms than Erin would have guessed.

“Relax. I would prefer not to damage this establishment. Nor would the owner or even you, I suspect.”

Relc hesitated. He looked at Erin, who decided to add her support of denial.

“Yeah, let’s calm down before someone gets hurt. Like me.”

Erin grabbed the jug of blue juice and began filling cups. Relc accepted a glass, drained it, and then sipped at the refill.

Erin went to fill Pisces’ glass, but he shielded it with one hand.

“No—no need, good Mistress Solstice. I am quite satisfied at the moment.”

Relc was still glaring daggers at Pisces.

“Peh. You should drink. It’ll be the last tasty thing you eat for a long time. Actually, what am I saying? This stuff’s way too good for you. Just remember what you’re missing when we lock you away.”

“If you can.”

Erin eyed Pisces. He was still sneering, and she wasn’t sure why. If she was any guess, Relc was two seconds away from turning his face into raw beef.

Relc scowled. He closed his hand, and Erin watched his entire arm ripple. She’d seen ripped guys before, of course, which wasn’t that impressive, but this—

“Last I checked, you were within arm’s reach. That means your fancy spells aren’t going to do a thing before I hit you hard enough to make your brains pop out. Trust me. I’ve done it before.”

Again, Pisces didn’t seem affected by Relc’s threat. At least visibly.

“I am a powerful [Mage] far beyond your capabilities. Even if your paltry Skills cannot detect my—capabilities—you would do well to be wary of my hidden…capabilities.”

He seemed to have forgotten synonyms for ‘capability’, like potential, talent, ability, and so on. Erin had the unfortunate desire to laugh. But Klbkch didn’t twitch.

The Antinium moved his head slightly. His expression didn’t change, but then, there wasn’t much to change. He lowered one of his four hands to his side, and Erin saw the hand rest casually on the pommel of his dagger. More sweat beaded on Erin’s lower back.

“Such as?”

Pisces drew himself up in his chair slightly.

“I have studied countless schools of magic. You see before you a practitioner of the elements, a weaver of illusions, a refined chanter, a master of alchemy, pyromancy, aeromancy, geomancy—”

“And necromancy.”

Erin helpfully chimed in. Pisces choked on his next words. He glared at her. She shrugged.

“What? You told me yesterday. Oh, and were you the one who stole the skeleton upstairs? I just realized that was probably you.”

Pisces lost his sneer and now looked uneasy. Relc, on the other hand, grinned again.

“Well, well. Theft of a corpse and reanimation, no doubt. That’s another big mark on the list of charges. But necromancy, well, that also means we don’t have to bring you back alive anymore.”

Erin opened her mouth, and Relc waved a hand. He looked exasperated as he glanced her way.

“Yes, yes. But we’ll just hit you and drag you back so Miss Erin doesn’t see anything nasty. But you’re in serious trouble now, Mister [Necromancer].”

“Oh, really?”

Pisces sat back in his chair. He was still pale, but he looked far more confident than he had any right to be.

“Regardless if you know my identity or not, I still believe you will find capturing me no easy task.”

Relc blinked. He scratched the spines on his head and then shook his head gently.

“Humans. You’re so arrogant and crazy. It’s almost funny. If you’re so full of powerful magic, dodge this.”

He swung his spear forward, the butt of the spear first. Erin shouted and tried to grab the spear, too slowly. But where the spear should have cracked Pisces over the head, Relc’s swing met nothing but air. Pisces was suddenly gone.

“What the—”

Relc blinked. Erin gaped. Klbkch instantly swung his swords in an arc, slashing the air around the chair. But he touched nothing.

“Gone.”

Relc swiped the air where Pisces had been with his spear and growled deep in his throat. Erin stared.

“He’s not invisible? He did that once.”

Relc shook his head angrily.

“No. I’d be able to sense if he were within a few feet of me. This was an illusion spell. A damn clever one, too. He pretended he was here and walked off while we were busy chatting. Most idiot spellcasters aren’t that stealthy or…when did he creep off? Klb, it was when you let go of him! I didn’t even see the chair move—damn, the chair’s an illusion too! Normally I can hear idiots skulking around even on the battlefield! This bastard tricked me! Me!”

He kicked a foot of the chair, and Erin gasped as the chair vanished and reappeared, further back. Klbkch looked to the door.

“I am unsure of when he left. He may have escaped only a few minutes ago. We may still catch him if we hurry.”

“Right, right.”

Relc cursed and swung his spear angrily. It made a terrific whooshing sound as it cut the air. Erin held her breath, afraid he’d let go and accidently cut her.

Klbkch turned and bowed his head to her.

“Thank you for informing us of his class, Mistress Erin. Although he posed no threat to either Relc or I, he is far more dangerous than we had believed. I did not notice the illusion spell. I have grown inattentive, lax. Relc as well, but this is a critical failing on my part.”

The Drake glared as Erin hesitated, looking at where Pisces had been sitting.

“Really? I thought—he didn’t seem dangerous. I mean, I hit him with a pot, and that knocked him out.”

“Oh, he’s probably as dangerous as a frog in a fight. That’s not the problem.”

Relc shook his head.

“We thought he was just an illusionist. That’s annoying, but really all he can do is scare folks into giving him things. But a necromancer’s worse. Far worse. We could let him go if he was just a normal [Mage], but we’ve got to find him now, and he knows it.”

“Why?”

Relc muttered to himself. He was still looking around, and his tongue was flicking out of his mouth, as if tasting the air. It was the first time he’d really reminded Erin of a lizard from her world.

“A rogue [Necromancer] on the loose does nasty things. Even a low-level one can bring down villages if you give him enough dead bodies, and they level fast when that happens. Damn, I’m not going to be the one who let the next Az’kerash get away, Klb. We’re gonna have to hunt this guy down. If we can’t catch him today, I’ll have the Captain send out multiple patrols once we get back to the city. Erin, we have to go, but I think you’re safe if that guy didn’t do anything last time.”

Erin nodded. Then she hesitated.

“So. Does…that mean you’ll be back soon?”

Relc nodded.

“Less than an hour, but we won’t be able to stay. Sorry. I’ll try to get the patrol out faster, but you know how it is. We’ve got to shift around guardsmen on patrol, set trackers, get armed up, etc.”

“Oh. Okay. But, uh, does that mean—how long does it take to get back?”

“We should be able to cover the distance in approximately ten minutes if we run.”

Relc nodded in agreement.

“So we’ve gotta go. Why? Are you worried he’ll attack you?”

“No, not that. It’s just—the city.”

“The city? What about it?”

“Um, where is it? Is it that teensy little wall of stone in the distance?”

Relc and Klbkch stared at her silently and then exchanged a glance.

“…You mean, you don’t know? By the way, things look smaller in the distance, Miss Solstice.”

“I know that! I just don’t know what I’m seeing! Should I? It’s not like there’s a sign or anything around here. And I can’t see it at all times.”

Relc looked amused.

“Don’t be snippy. But it’s easy to spot. Look, you can even see it out the window here.”

He walked over to a window and pointed. Erin squinted. Now that he mentioned it, the viewpoint here did let her pick out that same landmark. It was just that she needed to look hard to spot the edge rising over a hill.

“…Is it that grey stuff there?”

“Well, yeah. Isn’t it obvious?”

“No, it’s really not. It could be a rock. A square rock.”

“It’s not a rock. Why are you having a hard time believing me? Can’t you see the buildings?”

“No, I can’t.”

“I do not believe she can, in point of fact.”

Relc and Erin turned to look at Klbkch. He studied her and then brought his face close to hers. Erin flinched as he did.

“Do not be alarmed. I mean you no harm.”

“Sorry—sorry. It’s just the pincers. And the eyes. It’s just—sorry.”

Relc laughed.

“Don’t mind Klbkch. He’s ugly even for an ant. But you really can’t see the city from here?”

Klbkch nodded. He seemed focused on Erin’s own eyes.

“I believe Humans have more limited eyesight than you or I.”

“What? That’s stupid.”

Relc huffed to himself. He pointed out the window at the black dot.

“Look, the city’s that way. It’s only a twenty-minute walk, and there aren’t many monsters along the way. Besides, once you get within a few miles, the area is regularly patrolled, so you won’t have any problems. And if those idiots at the gate stop you—which they won’t—just tell them you know me.”

Klbkch nodded.

“Or me. However, you should encounter no problems. Only those with past records of crime are unwelcome in Liscor.”

“And speaking of which…we’ve gotta go. It’s my day off, but we’ll report that annoying Human maggot-mage back at the barracks. If we move fast, we might get him before he runs too far.”

Relc was on his feet. He moved so quickly that Erin was left gaping. One second he was sitting down, the next he was at the door.

“Hey, Klbkch, coming?”

And then Klbkch was there too. If Erin hadn’t seen the black blur that swept past her and felt the rush of air, she would have sworn he’d teleported.

“Indeed. It is unfortunate we must leave so soon. Our apologies, Miss Solstice.”

“No—no problem.”

“Well then.”

Klbkch nodded to her. Relc waved and was out the door in a flash. Erin was left sitting with a table full of dirty plates and a state of mild shock.

She had just picked up the first plate when the door slammed back open. She jumped, but Relc waved at her.

“Oh, sorry we forgot to pay. We’re in a hurry so—put it on our tab!”

The door closed. Erin stared at it hopefully, but it didn’t open again.

“…What tab?”





1.10


Erin stood in front of the cupboard and sighed. Loudly.

“Men.”

Erin paused and thought about that word.

“Males. They eat and eat and eat. And then I have to clean up the dishes. Typical.”

True, she was an [Innkeeper]. Or at least, she kept an inn relatively clean. But that didn’t make her feel better.

“Pantry? Pantry is empty. Food? Food is gone. And money—”

She glanced at the pile of coins on the kitchen counter. Gold, silver, copper and…where had the gold come from?

Klbkch. He’d put two down for his meal and Relc’s, one each time he’d come. Was that normal pricing? She guessed that if he was giving it to her, it was.

Erin dunked a plate in a bucket of water, the lye soap in her other hand. She used the dustrag to wipe at the plate, but then realized she needed a second bucket to clean everything off.

She decided she’d soap-wash the dishes, then she had to get another bucket from the stream…but her reward was the lovely coins. And less food. Assuming she had more money coming in than she spent, this was ideal—but she needed to spend it. That seemed to be the critical missing link in the way this business was working so far.

“Money is shiny. But, uh, inedible. And it’s good to have money, but starvation is an issue.”

Erin stared at the empty pantry. She had a tiny scraping of butter left, a mostly empty jar of flour…starvation was a major issue.

“Aren’t there some more blue fruits around here? Here? No…here? Yep. Nice and wrinkled. Lovely.”

She could always get more blue fruits, of course. But there was a limit on how many those trees had left. And there was also a limit to how many Erin was willing to keep hauling back.

“And I’m out of ingredients.”

The flour was almost gone. The butter was all but gone. The salt—okay, there was some salt left and some sugar too. But they were running low in their jars, and with the lovely preservation-spell-thing gone, they’d probably turn rotten sometime soon.

“So I’m in trouble.”

“So it would appear.”

The second, droll voice was right in her ear. Erin was sure her heart stopped for a good few seconds. She turned around and looked at Pisces.

“If I had a knife in my hand, I’d stab you.”

He smirked at her. It seemed to be his default mode of face. He stood up from where he had been crouching, invisible or concealed, in the corner of the kitchen.

“Ah, but what good innkeeper would deprive herself of such a magnificent guest?”

Erin reached for a knife. Pisces lifted his hands instantly.

“Please, please, good Mistress, let’s not be hasty!”

He took a few rapid steps back. Erin glared at him, but only let her hand rest on the counter. Pisces looked dusty. And dirty. And sweaty.

“Where did you come from? I didn’t hear you come in through the door.”

The sneer was cut with genuine nervousness, but Pisces gestured upstairs smugly.

“I was, in fact, upstairs the entire time. Under a bed. It was the simplest solution given the intelligence of those two brutish guardsmen.”

Erin blinked. He had dust-bunnies all over his hair and robes, which, granted, didn’t actually make him that much dirtier. She glanced towards the common room and nodded.

“Good job, I guess. But they’re still going to find you. You’re a criminal, and you’ve got nowhere to hide.”

“Except here.”

He raised a hand before Erin could say anything.

“Please, hear me out. Rest assured, I bear you no ill will for reporting my actions to the guard. I fully appreciate the severity of my crimes, however—”

“You want something. What? To stay here? No. Nope. No way in hell.”

Pisces lifted his hands and put on what she supposed was his best smile. It made him no less desperate, but he spoke quickly and eloquently. A scholar? Erin supposed a [Mage] was probably scholarly.

“I assure you I would be a quite convivial guest. And I wouldn’t ask for much. In fact, you may be interested to know I am proficient in multiple schools of spellcasting. While necromancy is a—passion of mine, I have extensively studied the elementalist, illusory, and enchanting schools of magic. My level is over twenty in the general [Mage] class. Even amongst my fellow students, you would be hard-pressed to find a spellcaster as widely capable as I am. I can aid in a number of functions that would improve your inn. And I have money.”

Erin raised two eyebrows. One just wasn’t enough.

“And you’re telling me all this…why?”

He licked his lips.

“In point of fact, I was wondering if I might persuade you to shelter and provide me with my basic necessities while in this moment of dire need. I can provide you with adequate recompense, I assure you—”

Erin snorted rudely.

“Right, for how long? Days? Weeks? Months? And I get to feed you, make sure no one finds you, and clean up after you? Again: no. I’m barely getting enough food for myself as it is.”

“Would you turn away an innocent—”

Erin’s finger nearly jabbed him in the chest as he stepped back. The young woman raised her voice as Pisces retreated out of the kitchen.

“Innocent? You? You’re nothing more than a thug with a magic wand. Remember how we met? You tried to scare me into giving you food. And now you want protection because you’re getting your just desserts? No. No, when I see Relc again, you’d better be long gone from here. And if you don’t leave now, I’ll kick you out myself.”

Erin finished her tirade and folded her arms under her breasts. But while Pisces had turned white as a sheet, he didn’t look ashamed or afraid so much as…

Angry.

He whispered a spell. Erin felt the air grow colder around her and suddenly saw shadows twisting around Pisces’ hands. The darkness was gathering around him like a cloak. It was the same spell as before, or close enough.

Pisces took a step towards her.

“I am a man in desperate straits. You would do well not to underestimate what I am capable of.”

Erin’s heart was racing. She took two steps back, and he followed.

“Antagonizing one of my power is unwise. If you have any sense, you will accede to my request. Or know the consequences.”

Her mouth was dry, but she knew it was just an illusion. So Erin forced herself to reply with more bravado than she felt.

“So, what? If I don’t decide to help you, will you hurt me? Bash my brains in? Or will you just rip my clothes off and try to rape me?”

He looked shocked.

“Of course I wouldn’t do that. I’m no barbarian—”

“Good.”

Erin’s hand moved in a flash. Pisces looked down and gulped. A knife was poking into his stomach.

Her heart was racing. She could taste bile in her mouth. But her hand was very, very still. She wasn’t sure of much in her life right now. Magic and monsters made her head spin. Yet some things were the same. And she had no intention of being the victim here, especially where no one could hear her scream.

Her knife had a gratifying effect on her mage guest. He licked his lips and raised his hands, turning a shade paler than normal.

“Now, now. Let’s not be hasty, good Mistress. I was merely saying—”

“Move and I will stab you.”

It was no threat. It was a promise. And, to his credit, Pisces was intelligent enough to take it seriously.

“—Allow me to apologize. But if I might say a few words—”

“No. Out.”

Erin advanced. Pisces had to step backwards or be knifed in slow motion. She forced him back into the common room and towards the door.

“Please, please reconsider.”

“No.”

His face was so desperate Erin paused a second.

“Why should I? Give me one good reason, Pisces.”

Pisces stopped at the door. Erin jabbed at him with the knife, but he refused to move back any further. He raised his hands higher and spoke with increasing speed and panic.

“If I am caught, they will take me to the city. And there I will be judged and killed. This is a certainty, Mistress Erin.”

Erin eyed him uncertainly. Pisces was licking his lips, and he looked genuinely afraid. But she couldn’t quite trust him after his threats. Posturing aside—there was the way he was looking at her, too. He didn’t really trust her, did he? Oh, no. And she didn’t trust him. But the part about being executed? Erin frowned hard.

“Relc never said—”

“He didn’t want to tell you the truth! But he and I both know what happens to [Necromancers]. We—any mage possessing even a single level in the class—are all killed on sight in this part of the world! There’s no mercy for my kind here. The legacy of the Necromancer of Terandria, Az’kerash, lingers. Especially here, where his armies once sieged Liscor.”

“Well—well too bad.”

Erin’s mouth was on autopilot. Pisces tried to step around her back into the kitchen, but she blocked him, forcing him to the door.

“Even if you’re in danger, I’m in danger if I hide you. I’m not doing that. Run away. Just run away now.”

“They will have patrols out around the city. They will scour the grasslands for me. Please, if you were to hide me, I would be sure to survive.”

“No. Go.”

Erin pointed towards the door with one hand. He wavered, but made one last entreaty.

“Please, I beg of you. Just one night. Just give me sanctuary, and I swear I will be gone upon the morrow. It is my death without your aid. Would you kill me? I ask you as a fellow Human. Please.”

“I—”

The knife in her hands wavered. Pisces seized the moment. He stepped forwards, hands outstretched beseechingly.

“Please, spare my life. If you have any pity in your soul—”

Thudthudthudthudthud.

Pounding footsteps. Both Humans turned and looked at the door. Pisces turned white, and Erin heard a roaring, familiar voice.

“Gotcha!”

It was quick. One second, Erin was pointing her finger at the door and glaring at Pisces. The next, something kicked the door open, blew past her, and Pisces was gone. Two figures crashed into a table and chairs. Erin’s mouth dropped open.

“There you are!”

The larger shape uttered a triumphant laugh as he swung Pisces around and slammed him into the floorboards. It was Relc. He came through the door and took Pisces down in a tackling charge faster than anyone Erin had ever seen. Pisces didn’t even make a sound until he hit the ground—and then it was the sound of someone losing all the air in his body and perhaps having his lungs and ribs compressed.

“Miss Solstice.”

Klbkch appeared at her side. Erin jumped, but the ant man placed a steadying…hand on her shoulder.

“Please forgive my rudeness. Are you well? We doubled back and lingered, knowing the criminal may have only pretended to flee the area. Are you hurt or in need of assistance?”

“What?”

Erin stared at him.

“Are you—what’s—I’m good. Good.”

“That is well. Then, please stand clear. We will be going about our business, and I would not wish you hurt.”

That said, Klbkch gently guided Erin to one side. To her astonishment, the fight between Relc and Pisces wasn’t over. The two were rolling around, knocking over tables and chairs as the Drake attempted to smash the Human into anything he could while the Human tried to avoid that fate.

Relc roared from the ground.

“Klb! Get over here and help! This guy’s slipperier than he looks!”

Klb nodded to Erin and dashed into the fight. She watched in stupefaction as the two tried to hold Pisces down. Oddly, it wasn’t that easy. Despite the size advantage and muscle advantage, Pisces was still managing to fend off both. Erin wondered how, until she saw he had something in his hands.

The wand. It was jetting electricity, as if it were an electric wire. Electricity, flames, which Relc jerked back from. He swung a fist, and Pisces vanished again. This time, he slammed so hard into a table Erin winced as he tried to get up.

Pisces scrambled to his feet and leapt for the door, but Klbkch caught him by the foot and attempted to tie his hands together with a piece of string, which turned out to be his boot’s shoelaces. Pisces shouted…something, and the leather burst into flames. Relc leapt on him and then blinked.

“[Barrier of Air]!”

Pisces waved his wand, and the Drake smashed into a shimmering whirlwind of air, bounced off, and landed on the ground. He ducked under the shimmering…spell? Erin was transfixed, but then Klbkch took Pisces down with a leg-sweep. He didn’t reach for his swords—he dodged a shard of stone that pierced the air next to his head, pinned Pisces’ hand—and then made a clicking sound of exasperation as Relc knocked both him and Pisces over in a low charge.

Pisces got back up, slashed the air with his wand, and both Klbkch and Relc ducked a glowing blade, throwing themselves flat as Pisces backpedaled.

It was a fast and dirty fight that had one or all three of the fighters rolling on the ground at all times. But Erin had only half an eye for that. The other eye was watching all of the furniture in her inn get smashed as they fought.

“Stop moving! Hey!”

“Desist your actions or—”

Pisces’ fingers sparked. A small explosion of lightning blasted Klbkch into a wall as Relc ducked. Erin ducked too. From behind her table, she could see Klbkch twitching and making a distressed buzzing sound. Then the Antinium drew his swords. Relc roared.

“You squirming—”

The dull thud of something hitting something echoed throughout the inn. But it was punctuated by another crackle of electricity and Relc shouting in pain.

Erin turned away from the brawl and ran into the kitchen. She emerged with the pot just in time to see Relc blasted off his feet, this time by what looked like an explosion of air.

Pisces backed away from the Drake, panting heavily. His face was bruised and he was bleeding from the nose and mouth, but his fingers still crackled with energy. He turned to run, but stopped.

Klbkch was on his feet. The ant man was standing in front of the door, swords drawn. He held two, one in each hand, while his other two held small daggers. Erin saw Pisces gulp. She agreed. Klbkch looked like a wall of blades. The two [Guardsmen] had gone after Pisces unarmed while he had his wand. Now that Klbkch had drawn his blades, Erin felt like the odds were completely reversed.

“I—I seek no quarrel with you. I am a graduate of Wistram Academy and a practicing mage. You detain me at your peril.”

Pisces pointed a trembling finger at Klbkch. It sparked with green energy that crackled around his fingertip, but it was suddenly a lot less impressive compared to Klbkch’s armory.

“Regardless of your affiliation to any academy, you are still under arrest. Please surrender now or I will be forced to employ lethal force.”

Pisces hesitated.

“My magic—”

“Is useless. Surrender.”

“Surrender?”

Erin jumped. She saw Relc getting to his feet. The Drake’s eyes were narrowed, and in his hands was a spear. It wasn’t long, but it did look extremely sharp. And the way he held it, Erin instinctively knew he was ready to use it to kill.

Pisces took one look at the spear and immediately raised his hands.

“I—I give up.”

Relc spat. His leather chest armor was singed in multiple places, but the scales underneath only looked soot-blackened, not damaged. However—Erin could tell how furious he was. The Drake’s claws tightened on the spear.

“Not likely. I’m gutting you like a fish right here.”

Erin stared at Relc in horror. But there was no joking in his eyes. He was practically quivering with rage, but the arms that held his spear were completely still and tensed.

“Gutting? Hey, that’s—”

“Don’t be hasty!”

Pisces backed away from Relc, talking fast.

“I assure you, my life is worth far more than you would ever get for me dead. This can all be solved amicably. I will fully cooperate—”

“Cooperate?”

Relc stepped forwards, and Pisces pressed his two fingers together. A strong breeze flew through the inn, and a flickering barrier of wind appeared in front of Relc.

“I will cease all magic and go with you quietly if you assure my life. I meant no harm to you or your companion. But we are at an impasse until you do.”

Relc’s eyes narrowed.

“By that? You think a piddly little [Barrier of Air] spell is going to stop me?”

The big Drake’s body tensed. He crouched slightly and then dashed into the wind wall. Relc’s massive body smashed into the semi-transparent barrier of wind. He sunk into the barrier, and then the winds pushed back.

Even from this distance, Erin felt the tremendous force in the spell and saw chairs and tables being blown away. For a moment, she thought Relc would go flying. But his claws dug into the ground, and the wind howled—

The whirling winds blew apart with a small clap of air that sent the nearest chairs flying. Pisces staggered back, face grey with shock. Erin stared.

Relc, on the other hand, just twirled his spear in his hand. He spat contemptuously on the floor.

“That’s what I think of your spells. I’m a former soldier of the 4th Wing of the Liscorian Army. I’ve killed more [Mages] than you have levels. Now, are you going to die quiet or will I have to pay for painting the walls red with your blood?”

Pisces stepped back, tripped over a fallen chair, and fell on his back. He raised his hands and cried out in a shrill voice.

“I can be ransomed. Quite highly! My school will pay ten—thirty gold coins in whichever denomination you like for my return.”

Relc raised the spear.

“Still don’t care. I don’t need money if I can get rid of a stinking fleshbag like you.”

Erin raised her voice in horror.

“What? No! No killing! Do you hear me?”

But no one was listening. Klbkch was closing in, swords and daggers at the ready. Relc raised his spear higher.

“Last words, [Mage]?”

“I—I—”

She couldn’t believe what was happening. The friendly Relc was lowering his spear, a dozen paces away from the backpedaling Pisces. But he could close that gap in less than a second. His eyes—

He was going to kill Pisces. And Klbkch wasn’t going to stop him. Erin’s head swung to the Antinium, and Klbkch stood by the door, impassive. She couldn’t read his face, and in that second, he looked like a true insect. Pisces was white with fear. Erin was in denial until she saw the Drake’s eyes. Even then…she saw Pisces hit a table. He looked at Relc and grew calm for a second.

That bitter, blank look returned to his face. He bared his teeth and lifted the wand like a dagger. It glowed, but with no real hope. Just like his eyes. But he drew himself up, a pale, thin young man, and shouted, eyes bulging, his voice hoarse and—Erin’s head swung to him as he raised his voice.

“I have only ever done what I loved. Slay me as well, you thoughtless fools. Just like all of my kind. One day—one of us will follow Az’kerash.”

Erin’s skin crawled. Klbkch looked up sharply, but Relc just grinned with all his teeth. His tongue flickered around them, like blood.

“Nice last words. But remember—your Necromancer died here. Miles from this very spot. The Tidebreaker was his end.”

Pisces’ look of defiance flickered. He lifted his wand.

“I know.”

The Drake lowered his spear and ducked, sweeping low as Pisces took one step forwards, a word, a name on his lips.

“Gewil—”

“Hey!”

Erin slammed the pot on the table top as hard as she could. Relc, Klbkch, and Pisces paused as one to stare at her. Relc froze in his killing charge as Erin pointed one shaking finger at them.

“No fighting. Not here. And no killing!”

Relc blinked. He lowered his spear a fraction. Erin pointed to it.

“Stop that! Put the weapons away and get out.”

“But he’s—”

“I don’t care! You don’t kill people just because they practice stupid magic! And you don’t kill people just because you don’t like them! And you don’t kill people because killing people is wrong!”

“What?”

Relc pointed down at Pisces angrily. He didn’t lower his spear, but Pisces had stopped mid-cast of whatever spell he had in mind.

“He’s a criminal.”

“No, he’s an idiot. But he didn’t do anything wrong enough to die for. All he did was try to scare me.”

“He hit me with lightning!”

The Drake gestured at the burns on his chest. Erin pointed to Pisces’ bleeding nose and bruised cheek.

“You punched his brains out! That’s not enough to kill him over!”

The Drake lowered his spear. He turned to Klbkch in disbelief, then back to Erin.

“I can’t believe this. Are you defending him? Because he’s Human? Or do you not want the blood in here? In that case, I’ll take him out back and—”

“No!”

Erin shouted at Relc. She waved the pot around dangerously.

“Are you stupid? I don’t want anyone killing anyone! You can’t do it! I forbid it! It’s wrong! It’s illegal.”

“In point of fact, my comrade’s actions are not—”

Erin whirled and pointed at Klbkch. The Antinium actually backed up a step as she glared between the two [Guards].

“I don’t care! No killing, do you hear me?”

Relc hissed angrily.

“Then I’ll arrest him, and he’ll be executed tomorrow. Happy?”

Pisces turned pale again. Erin’s mouth replied before her brain caught up.

“I withdraw my testimony.”

“You what?”

Erin lifted her hands.

“I withdraw it. All of it. I was never attacked yesterday. This mage-guy never visited the inn, and I never saw him until today. So there’s no reason for you to arrest him.”

“You can’t do that!”

Relc turned and looked at Klbkch.

“Can she?”

The ant man nodded reluctantly.

“She is correct. Without her testimony, we cannot submit a report regarding his attempted thefts.”

Relc faltered. He looked uncertainly at Pisces and then remembered.

“But he’s still a [Necromancer]! That’s a crime no matter what he does! And he attacked us!”

Erin crossed her arms.

“Prove it.”

“What?”

“Prove. It. Can you? Is there a way to check his, uh, class?”

Relc gritted his teeth.

“…No. Not without an artifact. Klb, you got an [Appraisal] scroll?”

“No.”

“Then go. Now.”

Relc gaped at Erin. It was surprisingly frightening. Erin could look right down his throat. He had a lot of teeth.

“Are you serious? One word to our Watch Captain and she’ll send a patrol back to capture this idiot! And if we don’t arrest him, you have a [Necromancer] running around! You want us to let him go knowing his class?”

“Absolutely.”

Erin glared at him. Relc lowered his spear, grabbed at the spines on his head, and hissed.

“I could still arrest him for attacking me. Yeah. I’ll just do that. Who cares about testimony or whatever?”

He took a threatening step towards Pisces, and Erin’s mouth once again beat anything else.

“You do that—and I’ll tell all the people who vouched for you that Senior Guardsman Relc arrested someone after a fight he started. You have no proof, no testimony, and I’m pretty sure if you arrest him, that’s illegal. There are laws, and you have to follow them. If this isn’t the first time you’ve done something like this, you could get a permanent citation on your record.”

Erin was just making things up now. She had no idea what kind of legal system Relc had to work under, but she was taking a guess based on their limited conversations. And it worked. Relc hesitated.

“No, I can’t.”

“Yes, you can. You have no cause whatsoever to arrest Pisces.”

The Drake’s arms were bunched up. He turned, furiously, and called in backup.

“Klb—help me out here!”

Erin’s heart sank as Klbkch sheathed his daggers. But only so he could pull out something from his belt. A handbook. How had he fit it on his belt?

Wherever he’d gotten it from, the Antinium read carefully.

“I believe Senior Guardsman Relc does have just cause, Miss Erin Solstice. It is true that his personal sworn testimony would be called into question if you were to speak against him. [Detect Truth] spells would settle that matter, but Relc’s history of inappropriate conduct on-and-off-duty does not help his case.”

“Hey.”

The Antinium raised one finger.

“However. As Senior Guardsman Klbkch, I will vouch for my partner to take this Human into custody for unlawful practices which include extortion, theft, and intimidation, which we have every right to suspect, with or without your testimony.”

He closed the book, and Relc waited, clearly unsure if that meant he had won. Erin’s heart sank. She looked at Klbkch and then at Pisces. And then around her inn. How could she save him? For once, she didn’t want the [Guardsmen] to be…

Here?

Here? Erin’s eyes lit up, and she stopped Klbkch, who was stepping towards Pisces to effect the arrest, with a shaking finger. Literally—she shook it in his face as the surprised Antinium halted.

“Oh no. Absolutely not. You’re all wrong, Klbkch.”

“I do not believe I am.”

Erin’s shaking intensified, from nerves as much as faux-fury.

“Oh yeah? Oh yeah? Well, this is outside your jurisdiction! You said it yourself—you don’t patrol my inn! Therefore, it is my inn, and I deny your city’s authority here!”

Klbkch’s mandibles opened and stayed there. Relc swung his head to Pisces and Erin.

“Wait—what did she just say? Jurisdic—we don’t do that, do we, Klb? Buddy?”

Erin froze, but Klbkch clacked his mandibles after a second. He stared at Erin for a long moment, then at Pisces, then slowly sheathed his swords. He met the [Innkeeper]’s desperate gaze—then nodded.

“…I believe I am incorrect. Relc, the Watch has no authority here. This is an independent inn, and the [Innkeeper] is allowed to deny our authority here.”

“What? Then let’s arrest her too!”

Relc protested, and Erin’s heart sank, but Klbkch stared at Erin for a long moment and then backed up.

“That would be inadvisable, Relc. We are off-duty, and Miss Solstice has stated her case. Executing a [Mage] of Wistram might also affect the Academy’s relationship with our city. Which the Council and Watch Captain would not be happy about.”

Relc spluttered. He looked from Pisces to Klbkch to Erin, and his scales grew darker. Was he…blushing with fury? Relc lowered his spear, made an inarticulate noise of rage, then pointed at Pisces.

“You take one step in the city and I’ll—I’ll—you take one step in there and I’ll do something about it. If I so much as see you on my patrol—”

Pisces was panting, looking at Erin with disbelief. He lowered his wand, slowly, and spoke.

“I assure you, you will never see—”

Relc’s eye twitched.

“Shut up.”

Pisces wisely shut up. The Drake looked at Erin, then whirled around. He stomped towards the door.

“Humans!”

Relc kicked the door as he left. Erin winced as she heard the wood crack. Then he was gone.

Klbkch walked past Erin and nodded to her politely.

“Do not mind him. You are within your rights to enforce law within this establishment as you choose. I apologize for the mess on both our behalves.”

He left. Erin stood around the room, looking at the broken chairs, overturned tables, and general wooden carnage. Behind her, Pisces got to his feet. He was still shaking and sweatily pale.

“I don’t know how I can thank you, good M—Miss Erin. Please, accept my humblest—”

Bonk.

Erin tapped him on the head with the pot. Hard.

“Out.”

“What?”

Pisces stared at her in disbelief. Erin raised the pot higher.

“Out.”

He stumbled out. Erin kept staring at the mess in the room. It had to be said. Definitely.

“Males.”





Interlude – The Great Ritual


It took her a long time to clean up all the broken wood. It was just as well she needed fuel for the fire in the kitchen, but it was still a pain to pick up all the splinters. Especially when one got stuck in her hand. But she’d done it, and now it was late.

The night was cool. Erin Solstice was tired, still shaky from the adrenaline and panic in her veins, but she was oddly—satisfied.

Despite the crack in her front door, she carefully locked it with the big, iron key she found. Despite the angry Relc and the damaged inn, her only reward from the huge fight—she was satisfied.

Because the young man wasn’t dead. She had put herself on the line to save him. It was a curious thing. The little Goblin who had watched the fight was fascinated. And so, in his way, was the [Necromancer] himself.



——



He sat in his cave, still replaying what he had thought his last moments would be. He didn’t know that Drake, but he had been a…dangerous quantity unknown in the regular run-of-the-mill [Guardsmen], who were inept as could be.

As for the Slayer of the Antinium? Pisces shuddered. His hands trembled so badly that he could barely move the needle across the piece of bone he was carving. So he stopped and thought.

The [Innkeeper] had saved his life. And kicked him out of her inn, but she had also fed him. Despite extorting a high price after…he had attempted to rob her. She was unlike anyone he had met. He owed her a debt, perhaps. But the real question he asked himself was where she had come from. Why didn’t she know what a [Mage] was compared to a [Sorcerer]?

Why was she here, alone?



——



It was a question Erin Solstice herself had asked many times, but she had no way to know for certain. Magic, chance? She didn’t ponder it long. She was dozing.

It had been a rough day, and Erin was lying in the kitchen with some blankets piled up. She was beginning to dream about disappearing skeletons and obnoxious mages. About Dragons breathing fire and Goblins and giant lizardmen eating pasta.

She slept, but countless miles away, something else was happening. Something that made her dreams skip and scatter and even made the young [Necromancer] sneeze a few times and rub at his nose absently.

Something was happening.



——



It was night here as well. Despite it being across the entire world, continents away. The deepest blackness of night, so late dawn was only an idea yet.

However, many remained awake. They had not slept, in fact, for days, not truly, just traded on and off shifts. Laboring to finish a project decades in the making.

Some stood out of pride and dedication alone. Their eyes had begun to sink into hollow sockets.

Men and women. Humans and…people with pointed ears. Feathery people, even a woman clad all in armor, her disembodied head floating next to her body. They all shared the same purpose, the same ideal.

The same kingdom. Now, they took their spots in the glowing diagram, and it covered the floor, so vast that the audience, standing well away from the lines of power, had to crane their necks as they waited for the final piece of this—hope.

This ritual. They were far too deep underground to see the sky, but two moons, one pale green and the other light blue, hung fully in the sky. That was necessary too.

There was so much magic in the air that it was beginning to distort the world visually. It was necessary; and it might not be enough, even with this.

The man in the center of it all continued to chant, as he had for hours, now. His voice was wavering, hoarse and cracked from the strain of talking so long. He wore the robes of a [High Mage], and he was festooned with artifacts. Each word was being checked by terrified apprentices and [Scholars].

Indeed, even the leader of this odd congregation was following the magical incantation, though he was no [Mage]. None of them were basic ‘[Mages]’. Not here. Not this kingdom of blight and glorious despair.

The leader was a man, a [King]. He looked younger from a distance. Barely seventy years old. Barely…and far younger than those with pointed ears. Until you stared into his eyes and saw true age looking back. Age and despair and defiance and—in this moment—hope.

The Blighted King stood, despite the late hour, with a giant of a woman by his side. A warrior with a scar down her cheek and a hand on the throwing axe at her side. She was wary, despite being clad in armor, of a trick, of failure—the Blighted Queen could do nothing but watch.

The same for the nobility, their guards, and even the lesser [Mages]. Only one person could follow what was happening fully, and it was the man who stood on the Blighted King’s right side.

He looked—thirty? Thirty and sixty. Young and old. Time was odd about him, and his hand curled over the grip of a staff as well as the floating spellbook from which he was reading. He was the most tense of anyone here. If anyone would stop this at its zenith and bear the consequences, or avert calamity—it would be him.

But everything was going well. Impossibly well, in fact. One of the participants was looking around. Whispering to the others. There was so much power here. More than they had brought. Then she fell silent, tongue-tied.

A [Lord] drew his sword and watched the light bend. The [Soldiers] moved uneasily, because they had no idea what was happening. The congregation, the ritual itself, all focused on a point in the air. A split in…

Everything? The [Mage] in the center of it all wept, his eyes beginning to bleed. He was so exhausted.

But his task was nearly done. The spell was completing.

It was not a clap of thunder. It was not the boom of space-time being rent. Rather, it was a whisper. Something grew thin. A veil tore ever-so-slightly. The light changed, drew inwards just for an imperceptible second; the wind blew in this deep cavern impossibly—and then they were there.

Humans.

Young men and women. They appeared mid-motion, some sitting, some lying down. Some walked out of the air, looked up from their smartphones in bewilderment. Bewilderment—then shock, panic. Fear or disbelief.

“What?”

“Where am I?”

“What’s happening?”

They shouted in alarm as a sigh ran through the waiting people. The [King] was on his knees, and his [Queen] was helping him up. The [Mage] beside the Blighted King had his staff raised, but his eyes were filled with disbelief.

Panic and chaos below as people rushed around, but every eye was on the Humans. They were so young. So few for the cost paid. And they had no idea what was going on.

Some of the summoned Humans were crying out in fear. Others tried to run in their panic but found their legs wouldn’t cooperate with them. A few stared around the room, noting the magic runes by their feet, the robed men and mages clustered together, and the watching aristocracy.

Uncertainty hung in the air, from those waiting for this moment to those called forth. But it was the [Mage] who spoke. He stumbled up from the dying ritual, and his voice filled the echoing chamber.

A wheeze. A pained laugh. The relieved hysteria of hope. The [Mage] raised his arms, robes falling about him, and fell to his knees. His face, stained with bloody tears and watery ones, raised to the heavens as he cried out.

“The Great [Heroes] of Prophecy are here! We are saved!”

It was one voice at first—then the others took it up. [Mages], [Soldiers], onlookers cheering in relief as the group of Humans drew together in fear. Some of those watching simply collapsed in…hope?

But others watched with calculating, appraising glances. The [King] rose, beckoning, and the young people waited. There was nowhere to run—but they weren’t in danger. Yet. They were confused. Lost. Far from home.

And they were not the only ones.



——



The night was old, and dawn was only an hour away. The countryside, here, was full of chirping crickets, owls, the sounds of insects buzzing, and so on. Or at least, on a normal night it would be. Right now, all was silent. Unnaturally silent.

An old man stood outside his home, sword drawn. The night was dark, and by all rights, he should have been in his home enjoying his dinner. But he heard something outside and had gone to investigate. This far out in the countryside, he couldn’t rely on militia patrols to keep him safe.

If it were a monster, he would run, naturally. On the other hand, a lone Goblin or a [Sneak Thief] trying to steal from him would meet his sword. He had been a [Swordsman], and he was more than strong enough to defend himself. Still, he was no fool. If it were [Bandits] en-masse or worse, he’d report to the Adventurer’s Guild.

He had to know. His grip was sweaty on the leather-wrapped pommel. Something was out there. The man hesitated—then shouted into the night.

“Who’s there?”

He almost hoped there would be no reply. The night was too still, though. And then—somehow, they were there.

They hadn’t been a second ago. They were no [Rogues] or invisible folk. But one second he sensed nothing and the next they were standing out of sight. The [Swordsman]’s hand was tight on his sword, and he backed up towards his house. Until he saw them.

Slowly, they approached. Hands raised, as pale with fear as he was.

Children. That was the first thing the old man thought. Children.

But then, he was old. Not all were that young. They were younger men and women. But children—because of how they looked. Lost, afraid. More afraid of him and the darkness than he was of them.

Humans? He hesitated, then put down his sword. If this were a trick—he called out, hoping they were no monsters or [Bandits]. The terror on their faces was too good to be an act. He hoped.

“Oh, are you young’uns lost? Come in, come in. The weather’s far too terrible to be out at a time like this.”

His sword sheathed, he opened the door to his home, letting light spill out invitingly. But none of the children moved. They just…stared at him. That was when the old man’s hair began to prickle a second time.

Something else was wrong. Their clothes were strange. He had never seen such—odd attire. Even in the darkness, he could tell there was something different about the fabric, the colors.

Nobility? Now he regretted sheathing his sword. But they were Human, and if this were a trap…

The terror on their faces. Was a large city burning? Hair was rising all over his arms and along his back. Had Invrisil fallen or…?

At last, one of them broke the silence. A young man pointed a trembling finger, and the old man nearly drew his sword again. Because the finger was pointing at him. But—rather than anything behind him, a warning—the finger just pointed at his side. The young man gulped and then finally asked—

“Dude. Is that a sword?”



——



And a few, a few simply wandered in carelessly.

A young woman paused mid-step. Her raven hair was matted with sweat and bound in a ponytail. She was barefoot, blasting music from the earphones and iPhone in her hand. Mid-run—she stopped slowly as she passed through a doorway.

And realized—abruptly—this wasn’t home. Or the track. Or her world at all. She came to a stop in a room full of people chatting or standing around, who turned to goggle at her. Swords, daggers on their hips, strange clothing—even a magic orb on a counter.

One of the [Receptionists] raised her brows as the odd woman came running in. She called out slowly. The young woman had to take her earbuds out of her ears and her thundering heartbeat had to slow before she finally heard the question.

“Hello? Miss? Are you here to join the Runner’s Guild?”



——



Two twins were walking down the street, laughing and arguing together. They turned the corner and walked out of London and into a throne room.

The paving stones turned into cracked marble. The overcast sky into a room a hundred feet tall and a night sky shimmering with every colorful star in a desert landscape. And a street of people into…

The boy tossed his smartphone up as his sister scolded him in case he dropped—

His hand froze. He fumbled—missed—and the phone clattered to the ground, the only sound in this frozen, slumbering tomb.

A tomb meant for a man. A living man, hair bedraggled, thin, practically a statue on the tiny chair before the throne. He sat there, staring at nothing and no one. Until that sound woke him.

Slowly, the man looked up. His eyes alighted on the two as they froze, in outlandish dress, a light coming from the smartphone. His blank look turned into a frown, and the twins stared back, terrified, confused—no idea where they were.

A second. As two pale green eyes fixed on them. Before a man in faded, noble clothing burst into the throne room, spear leveled, ready to run them through, and dozens of [Soldiers] came screaming to the defense of that slumbering ruler and the throne.

They had a second to scream before the man sitting in that chair stood. He stood, breathed in, and uttered the first order in two decades.

“Stop.”



——



Not just one. Or two. Or even dozens. They were coming. From every background, every place.

A girl was laughing as she was being dragged from her cell. Laughing with defiance—until she tripped. She went sprawling, landing on something soft, and waited for them to drag her up.

Then she realized there was a different kind of light on her. She looked up and saw an adventurer staring down at her. He moved an iron-covered hand and extended it.

A woman leaned over the counter in the Adventurer’s Guild and blinked down as the man helped the young woman to her feet. They stared at her bright orange jumpsuit. Asked questions, but she couldn’t stop laughing, then.

Because there was no one holding onto her. Her wardens were gone.

She was free.



——



She took a step off the street and into a tomb. She fell, screaming, into the darkness, the light from her phone the only thing in the gloom.

An intruder in a sacred place. The guardian awoke from his long vigil and heard the first voice in an age. Like a song.



——



He—didn’t know where he was. The young man knew every inch of this mall he was supposed to be in, and the street leading to it. Or he should. But no matter how hard he tried, his cane couldn’t find anything familiar. Just…dirt. Dirt? How had he gotten here? Had he gone to the park instead?

“Zoe? Are you there? Anyone?”

If he could have looked around, he would have known everything was changed. He already knew—but not how much. His eyes opened and shut as he turned, slowly—

But he was blind. So he called out in the forest, hoping someone would hear him.

“Hello? Can someone help me?”

And after a moment—someone heard him.



——



More and more, flickering into place. Each one different, each in a different place.

Rain fell upon the world. Just for a moment. A passing shower of souls. But where they landed, ripples spread across hither-to calm waters.

Not legends of Earth. Nor did they have any special powers save for those which all Humans had. But they were living. They were here.

The world was beginning to shift.

The night was late, and Erin Solstice was asleep. She rested her head on the cold floor of her kitchen, on an inn sitting in a plain full of quiet grass. Around her was silence. In her dreams, she drooled a bit and mumbled about pasta.

She was lonely. But she was no longer alone.





1.11


Erin woke up. Generally, this was an ordeal. Today, however, it was fairly easy. Because the real ordeal would come later.

Such as right after breakfast. Erin stared glumly at the three shriveled blue fruits on her plate. She bit the first experimentally and chewed. And chewed. And chewed.

“Rubbery.”

It was incredibly difficult to chew the fruits. The skins on these ones were so tough to bite into, it did remind Erin of eating rubber. Not that she’d ever done that since she was a baby.

Plus, they’d lost their delicious juices and tasted—well, flat. There was no sweetness left in them, and they were quite, quite unappetizing when you put all these qualities together. But Erin ate them, mainly because she had nothing left to eat.

“I’m in trouble. Yup, yup. It’s amazing these things lose so much taste after only a few days.”

It wasn’t that she was out of blue fruits. There were plenty—well, some—still ready to be harvested from the orchard. But they, like all food, were in limited supply. Besides, the issue wasn’t that. It was her guests.

“Who’d want to eat blue fruits all day? Raise your hand if that sounds like fun.”

Erin didn’t raise her hand. Granted, they were tasty and made a good fruit drink, but when you got down to it, they were still just fruits.

“And I want food. Real food. Not fruit. I want bread! I want pasta! I want pizza and soda and salad and ice cream—actually, forget the ice cream. I need meat. Or fish that doesn’t bite back! I want sushi, cheeseburgers and fries, toast, waffles…cereal…”

Erin pressed her hands to her rumbling stomach and tried not to cry.

“Even instant ramen would be nice. Is that too much to ask?”

It was. She knew that. But just thinking about the food made her tear up a bit. She could handle Goblins. She could deal with rude [Necromancers] and fight off evil rock crabs. She could even handle giant fish that tried to nibble on her when she took a bath. But she wanted food.

“Plus, I need to feed my guests.”

Erin nodded. The math was simple. No food equaled no guests equaled no money equaled starvation. But the little flaw in the equation was that in order to get the food, she’d need to spend the money. And she had no way of doing that.

“Unless I go to the city.”

Now, that was a thought. She wasn’t sure if that was a good thought, but it was the only option she had available. The city. Erin went to the window. Relc had shown her where it was…

“There.”

Erin stared at the small buildings in the distance. It looked far. But then, everything looked far around here. And the city would have things. Like food. And clothing. And toothbrushes. And plates and things for her guests? It looked a lot farther than twenty minutes away, though. Erin imagined the journey wasn’t without risks, but if Relc and Klbkch did it…she weighed her options.

“It’s far. But I have to go. Maybe? Yes…no. No? Yes. I need food. And I need to feed my guests. It’s my duty as an innkeeper.”

She paused and thought about that last statement. Erin collapsed into a chair and cradled her head in her hands.

“Am I an innkeeper? Is that what this world is doing to me?”

Maybe. It was probably the [Innkeeper] class. However, it was the only class she had. Erin just hoped she didn’t change to meet the class.

“I’ll grow a huge beer belly and start hauling around kegs of ale. That’s what innkeepers do, right?”

She didn’t actually know. It wasn’t as if she’d ever paid that much attention to medieval history, at least the parts that were actually history.

“They never mentioned innkeepers in the legend of King Arthur. Or did they?”

There was no Google to help her, so Erin abandoned that train of thought. Really, she was distracting herself. She knew what she had to do today.

“To go to the city or not, that is the question. Actually, there’s no question. I need to go to the city. I need to go…shopping.”

She hated shopping in general. This? This would be crucial shopping, because unless she got enough flour, eggs, and so on to sell to her guests—she wouldn’t be able to make more money. Which she needed to buy more things. Essentially, she had a job, and while she could live off blue fruits for a time without money—she couldn’t do that forever. Her teeth certainly couldn’t.

Still. Erin really, really didn’t want to go. She liked people, she really did. But she had a negative reaction to leaving her safe inn and travelling to a far-off city probably full of giant lizards and insects that walked on two feet.

Glumly, she stared at the three blue fruit cores on her plate. She walked outside and threw them as far as she could. The juices left her hands feeling unpleasantly sticky, but there wasn’t much she could do about it.

“Guess I’ve gotta go to the stream. Who knew washing your hands was so much work?”

Erin grumbled as she wiped her hand on her jeans. Then she paused. And looked down.

Her jeans were blue. The blue fruit juice was blue. But against all odds, the blue stain still showed up quite visibly on her clothing. Or rather, the blue fruit stains. And they weren’t just on her pants.

Erin’s shirt was a nice, commercial t-shirt with a lovely company logo on the front and back. Really, she wasn’t that attached to it, but it was perfect to wear when she was just staying at home. It wasn’t her choice of clothing.

…Which was good, because Erin would have cried if she’d inflicted the same damage on a t-shirt she really liked. She gazed down at the blue stains covering her shirt. She poked at the rips and cuts on the sleeves and the burn marks on one side. She lifted the shirt, sniffed once, and gagged.

For the first time, Erin felt at her hair. She raised a hand and smelled her breath. She thought about the last time she’d brushed her teeth. Then she tried to shut down her mind.

“Well, that settles that. I’m off to the city.”



——



Erin walked through the grass. She wished there was a nice road to follow, but for some reason, no one bothered to pave a road through the empty wilderness. Come to that, she wondered again why anyone would build an inn in the middle of nowhere.

Maybe there used to be more people in the area. Or maybe there was just an idiot who thought he was breaking into an untapped market. Either way, Erin was grateful for the inn.

“But why does it have to be so far away from anything?”

Erin walked down the slope. At least there was that. The inn was located on an incline. Not a steep hill, but a really long slope that gradually went down the more she walked. It was nice, until Erin looked back and realized she’d be climbing up all that way again soon.

“Wow. That’s a big hill.”

She stared for a while and kept walking. Relc and Klbkch had called the journey to the city a walk of about twenty minutes.

“They lied to me.”

Or maybe they just walked really fast. Erin could actually see the city Klbkch had called Liscor in the distance. It was still small, but given how close it seemed now compared to before and multiplying her velocity by her legs and given energy divided by her willingness to keep walking…

“Thirty minutes. No; probably an hour. Yeah, that sounds about right.”

Erin sighed. But exercise was good for her, right? It built character. Or something.

“So, what do I need?”

She took a quick inventory check. Her coins were securely packed into the bottom of one pocket. They were heavy. She had her clothes on, which was important, and she looked like…well, like a homeless person. But she had money. So what should she buy with it?

“Um. Clothing. Right. And soap. And a toothbrush, if they have toothbrushes. And toothpaste…which they probably don’t have. But something. And I need food obviously, more soap, towels, laundry deter—more soap, and a comb.”

Erin walked a few more feet.

“And a sword. I need a sword. And a shield? And armor? And, uh, anti-Goblin spray? Oh, and books! Tons of books. Maps, history books…can I read any of that? Well, Relc and Klbkch speak English. So that’s weird too. And I need bandages, a sewing needle, someone to teach me how to sew…”

Erin felt at her pocket. The coins jingled. She wished there were more to jingle.

“And I need to rob a bank.”

Okay. Erin retraced her thoughts.

“What’s essential?”

She counted off on her fingers.

“Clothing. Food. Toothbrush. Toothpaste. And a lamp.”

She snapped her fingers.

“Right. A lamp! And a sword.”

She felt at her pocket again and heard less of a jingle, more a few bits of metal rubbing together.

“…Just the lamp.”



——



“Flat grass, flat grass, all I see is flat grass.”

Erin sang as she walked. She wasn’t sure if there was a tune, but at least the singing kept her company.

“Horses eat grass, but I’ll pass, so I’ll go to the city fast. Or I’ll die of starvation! And once I’m there, I’ll eat ten pears and—hey, is that a Goblin?”

Erin turned her head suddenly, and the small head ducked down. She squinted. Yes, that was definitely a Goblin. It was hiding up on a small hill to her left, but she knew it was still there. Watching her.

Well. She was being followed. Erin wasn’t sure what to make of that. She looked around, and two more heads disappeared as their owners dove for cover. They didn’t look like they were trying to ambush her, just follow her.

“Hm.”

Erin bent down and searched the grass. Eventually, she found what she was looking for. She waited until one of the Goblins decided she’d forgotten about them and poked his head up again. Then she turned and shouted.

“Shoo!”

Erin hurled the rock. It missed the Goblin’s head. And the hill. But the green figure took the hint and disappeared in an instant. Erin sighed to herself.

“Great. They’re like cockroaches. Evil, giant, green cockroaches. With teeth. And sharp knives. And red eyes.”

She wondered what she should do. Then she thought about what she could actually do.

Erin kept walking.

The city kept getting larger the further she walked. She felt at some point it should stop getting bigger, but soon the buildings loomed in her vision. They were no skyscrapers, but they were taller than she felt medieval buildings should be. But the city was still far away. So she walked.

And she was being watched. Multiple pairs of eyes stared at the young woman as she walked through the grass. They watched her for signs of weakness, for things that could be exploited. She was watched. Occasionally, she turned around and threw a stone.



——



When Erin got to the city gates, she stared up for a while.

“That’s a big wall.”

It was a big understatement. The wall was high. And that was high even by wall standards. It was nearly forty feet tall, which Erin had no way of knowing was perfectly normal for a curtain wall. She had no way of knowing it was forty feet tall either. She just thought it was big.

But what was unusual about this particular wall, and what Erin did notice, was the way the gate was constructed. It was no iron grating of a portcullis with handy holes to shoot and poke at enemies, but two solid metal doors. Erin wondered why, as the gates looked solid and hard to budge. They were, and for a reason. But she didn’t find out that reason until much later.

Erin approached the gate. There wasn’t really anyone else going through at the moment, so she felt very alone and small as she walked up to them. She stopped when she saw the guard.

He was big. He was armored. He was also a Drake, and he had yellow scales rather than green ones. Pale yellow, so Erin was reminded of popcorn. He also had a curved sword, and so it was with trepidation that she approached.

“…Hi.”

The Drake flicked his eyes down towards Erin and then resumed looking off into the distance. He was holding a spear at his side and a metal buckler on his left arm. Since he wasn’t using either to bash her to death, Erin considered this to be a good first start.

“Um. Nice weather, isn’t it?”

Again, the guard glanced at her. Again, he didn’t respond.

“…Right. It’s just that I’m new here. And I’m Human. Nice to meet you. My name is Erin. I, uh, know another guy who works with you. Relc? And Klb…Klb…the insect guy? So yeah. They know me. I’m no threat. And, uh, I saw some Goblins running around a while back. They’re not here right now, but I felt you should know.”

The Drake sighed audibly. And loudly.

“Go on in, Human. Anyone can enter the city. The gates close at sundown.”

“Right. Thanks. Uh, have a nice day!”

Erin smiled. He didn’t smile back.

“I’ll just be going. Now.”

She walked past the guard. As she walked through the iron gates, she heard him mutter under his breath.

“Humans.”

Erin’s smile froze a bit on her face but she kept walking as if she’d heard nothing. Everyone was grumpy when they had to stand and deal with obnoxious tourists. And besides, he was just a guard. She walked through the imposing gates into the city. And then she had to stop.

Because she had entered Liscor. A city of Drakes and the Antinium and even more species she had not yet met, but saw walking and milling about. At least three she could see, all mingling and going about their lives. And now entering—

One Human.



——



The Drake at the eastern gates was still yawning when the young woman hesitated, then walked forwards into the city of Liscor.

There were barely any more [Guards] on his section of the wall either; visitors came from the north or, in the winter, the south far more often. Even the western approaches had a few farms, but the only people coming in or out were [Traders] or [Hunters].

One had stopped three-dozen paces past the gates. Erin Solstice stopped dead in her tracks because there…

Was a hyena.

No, a dog-person.

No, a hyena-dog-person. Her first instinct was to stop, because she was reminded of a werewolf, a rabid animal—but way bigger than even the largest wolves from her world. It was crouched over half a deer carcass, red with blood, and Erin looked back for the Drake with yellow scales—

Until she heard the voice.

“—by the tribes and fur knots. All the lice in Izril! All the lice in Izril and—and Raskghar on these stupid paving stones!”

It was a male voice, growling and angry. Then, Erin saw how the person had clearly tripped. The blood from the carcass was due to it tumbling out of someone’s grip. They were getting up, and when she caught sight of their face…Erin’s fears about an animal were unfounded.

The furry person had dark brown eyes, with faint pupils almost lost in the deep chestnut color. Their entire body was covered from head to toe in a similar chestnut fur that rippled with every movement. Erin could tell because the figure had on only a kind of hide leggings, and nothing but a weird kind of armband on their right arm.

She realized that was one of those things an archer had—an armguard. It went with the recurve bow on their back and quiver at their side. As they straightened, hefting the deer onto their back, Erin realized a few more things.

They had features like a hyena, not a dog. There was something…more poofy about their ears, and their face was more angular than most dogs’. A humanoid element that made them look even more expressive than a dog’s face.

Second? This—this person was six-foot-seven. They towered over Erin, and they had the muscles to match if they were carrying half a deer.

Come to that—Erin stared at the deer, because she knew deer from her home state of Michigan. This was a big one, possibly a buck? But the antlers were…glowing. They were an oaken brown at coronet, but turned cherry red at the tips, and the entire antler had a faint bright glow to it.

The hyena-person noticed Erin at last as they stood with a groan. They did a visible double-take, then glanced guiltily at the blood on the street.

“Apologies, Miss. Was I in your way?”

It was hard to imagine that—the street was a good two-dozen paces on each side, and there wasn’t anyone else in this particular spot. There was no sidewalk, but the paving stones were mostly flat…except in one spot where some shift had made one jut up treacherously.

Erin backed up instantly, waving her hands.

“Oh, no! I’m, um—sorry I didn’t help? Sorry you fell?”

The person gave her a blank look—then bared all their teeth. Erin froze up, and the figure looked confused. They closed their mouth and curved their lips up.

“Er…apologies, Miss Human. We don’t see many of your kind around here, yes? A [Trader], a traveller? No need to apologize. [Broader Shoulders] means only I can carry a deer back! Half of one, at any rate. If only I had a bag of holding large enough for an entire deer, eh? I wouldn’t make a Human help me lift one of these!”

They laughed and patted an odd bag next to their belt. Erin’s smile grew more desperate.

“Yes? No?”

The person stared at Erin with a quizzical look. A bit of blood dripped onto their shoulder, distracting them, and they cursed again.

“Tribes and tribulations. Excuse me, Miss. Watch the blood. If that [Guardsman] asks…pretend you never saw me. I’ve got to get this to the [Butchers] before the Acid Flies are all over.”

“The…”

This was so fascinating, but the figure was already striding off, and Erin, dumbfounded, had to catch her breath a second. And by that point, she realized that this was a city of more than just ant people and Drakes.

Erin walked down the first street, and then she began seeing crowds. In fact…that furry fellow was one of thousands. Hundreds she could see in any given moment, which made her assume this city was home to at least tens of thousands.

Drakes, Relc called his people. Not lizards—Drakes. They had scales of every color, almost always one color with perhaps some speckling of other scales at most, like freckles. But most had only one dominant scale color.

Green or blue were the majority, but Erin saw a Drake with orange scales talking to another who was laughing and…gossiping? That was what it looked like as she held a claw in front of her mouth, whispering loudly to a group seated at a table. She had bright yellow scales and…a kind of tavern girl’s outfit on.

A medieval dress. But, done in a modern style if that made sense. With cleaner and far higher-quality fabric than Erin would have expected of the actual medieval ages. Like someone in a renaissance fair, actually. But…

The more Erin looked at the various types of clothing, she realized it wasn’t a one-to-one comparison with her world. The dyes were less vibrant and the lack of machine-printing meant that there were no logos, but a lot of fine embroidery. She saw a sigil of a city in the form of a badge on a passing Drake’s uniform and could tell it was an emblem because of the delicate gold thread surrounding the city with a sword and axe hovering over it.

On another hyena woman’s shirt was a silver fang embroidered in thread. And the lack of dyes also resulted in a more natural feel to the attire around her. Instead of neon-green, the brightest colors were a fine red shirt on one of the furred men, or plain white cotton on a very light dress under a thin, pale-blue outer layer.

The people here wore clothing bright and colorful enough that, at a glance, you might not realize how different it was. Erin’s t-shirt and jeans were still odd, but not uniquely so. If anything, it was being a Human that made her stand out.

Because these people were people, even if they weren’t Human. They were walking to work, talking, avoiding the fellow with the half a deer carcass on their shoulder—Drakes and the furry people.

No Humans. And no ant-people that Erin could see on this crowded street. The Drakes seemed to be the majority, but there was a strong minority of the…what?

Erin had no idea what to call them, but they were a tall lot, weren’t they? The Drakes varied in height roughly around Human standards, but the furry folk seemed to be taller on average. Bigger, too. There were male and female ones—Erin could tell despite the fur. And the female ones tended to have breastbands at the minimum.

A lot of the furry folk wore light clothing. Literally just a kilt or a kind of exceptionally loose pair of pants. A…toga? An actual toga, yes! It must have been hot, despite the cool weather, for anyone with that much fur.

By contrast, the Drakes also had togas and fairly loose clothing, but some were dressed head-to-toe. Like the Drake with bright yellow scales whispering to some people at—an outdoor café?

She had a platter of drinks and some bowls on the tray, but she’d stopped to whisper to a gaggle of other Drakes.

“—broke up again. Hawk can’t keep a girlfriend for more than a month, Courier and gold or not. It’s his obsession with vegetables.”

“You sure it’s not him being…him, Drassi?”

“Oh, hush. He’s fine. He’s more Drake than you are. I’m just saying—”

The barmaid, or whomever she was, jumped guiltily as an angry Drake with black scales—aside from some grey-white ones around his head—came out, his voice raised. He had a smock, and he looked managerial. In fact, Erin realized she was witnessing a common sight from her world.

“Drassi! This is the eleventh time this week! I’ve told you again and again, stop gossiping. I don’t care what your class is—enough. You’re friendly, but you’re also fired.”

“What? But I can work harder! Come on, Mister Drells…”

The Drake protested as her friends coughed and tried not to be there. Erin’s eyes boggled at the sight of someone losing gainful employment before her eyes—and if that didn’t make this a city like home, she didn’t know what did.

The city. Now that she was done staring at the people, Erin realized this city was…well, stone. Streets? Stone. Walls? Stone. Not concrete or asphalt, but cobblestones stuck together with some version of cement. Not incorporating any faux-stone cladding. Actual, legitimately hewn stone that sometimes bore chisel marks.

It reminded her of one of those European cities, the older ones. A lot of the buildings were wooden, and most had at least two stories. There was even a sidewalk, but no cars, obviously. Nor were there any traffic lights or modern electronics in sight.

Erin saw wood shutters thrown open, a few people on outdoor balconies watering pots of flowers, and someone hanging clothes up to dry—but thankfully no privy pots being thrown into the streets.

In fact, she realized that the street not only had a sidewalk, but very familiar openings into…a sewer? The street looked fairly clean, and Erin was so busy staring that she didn’t hear the angry person shouting at her until she looked up and saw a wagon rolling towards her.

“Get out of the way, you idiot!”

Erin ran for the side with a squeak of alarm. The driver on the wagon, another Drake, slowed the pair of ponies that stared at Erin almost accusatorially as the Drake—female?—managed to stop her vehicle.

“Are you blind? Stay on the sidewalk! I nearly ran you over!”

“I’m sorry!”

Erin called back as people turned to stare at her. The fired [Barmaid] perked up the instant she saw Erin.

“A Human? We haven’t seen one of them in…I wonder if another trade caravan’s getting here?”

The [Driver] paid no attention. She pointed at the huge wagon, and Erin realized those were the vehicles of choice. From footcarts to gigantic wagons larger than cars, loaded with goods.

“Sorry? Sorry? When this wheel runs over your foot, no healing potion in the world is going to get it back. Do you think I want that on my conscience?”

“S-sorry. I just didn’t see—”

The Drake glowered, but she flapped the reins, moving onwards.

“I don’t have time for this. I’ve got a delivery to run. Sidewalk! Use it!”

Erin was running afoul of everyone. Subdued, Erin scurried to the side of the street—and got into trouble again. Because she wanted to stop and stare, and this was a crowded city. Hundreds of people were all about, and they didn’t much like someone who stood still. Or Humans in general, it seemed.

Erin had come to a halt in front of a large building with writing on top. A lovely, wide sign…that she couldn’t read.

The language was different here. Exactly like the other words on the sign. It said, um…well, she had no idea, but there were two words and what looked like an apostrophe. But the real clue was what looked like a crystal ball and a magic wand with glowy bits. Some kind of symbol. Magic? Then Erin got in trouble again with the locals.

“Excuse me, Miss. Are you waiting in line for…?”

“One side, Human! Stop blocking the way!”

She jumped out of the way, and some impatient citizens strode into the building, which was getting good traffic in and out. Erin looked around. Every head turned to stare at her, and she heard that refrain again.

“Humans.”

“Excuse me—um—what’s this building? I can’t read…”

Erin looked from person to person, and one stopped to talk to her. That friendly yellow-scaled Drake had been drooping along, head hung low after being fired. But this novelty made her smile come back with an eager vengeance.

“What, the Mage’s Guild? You can’t read, Miss Human? Right, you don’t read Drake script. Are you looking for the Mage’s Guild? Runner’s Guild? Adventurer’s Guild? An inn to stay in? Stables? The Watch, maybe? I’m Drassi.”

The words broke over Erin like a rushing wave. The young woman lifted her hands.

“No! I mean, I’m just looking around. Nice to meet…I’m just looking for a—a store!”

The Drake gave her a bright smile. With too many teeth. She bared all her needle-sharp teeth, and Erin gulped.

“What kind of store?”

“Uh—I—just looking, thanks!”

Erin fled, feeling embarrassed and awkward. The Drake scratched at her neck spines as Erin hurried off.

If she kept moving, she could be part of the crowd. After a while, Erin was less flustered. She walked down the street and became, well, part of the city’s traffic. That allowed her to observe.

This city is huge! At least, she thought so. There were so many people she wondered how many lived here. Tens of thousands? Hundreds, probably. And all packed into the walls, not spread out.

Hence, there were no real suburbs, just residential streets with four stories of buildings next to or above shops. Erin saw the fellow who’d killed that odd deer again, depositing his kill with the [Butcher]. He was having a hard time.

“You just gave me a damned Corusdeer. Half of one.”

“Yes. And?”

The man had his arms folded as the Drake harangued him.

“Where’s the other half? You didn’t skin it first? You’ve ruined the hide—and there’s dirt on this part! Did you drag it back?”

The other figure growled.

“I dropped it once, okay? It’s not bad, no! And as for cutting it in half—I thought I saw a Shield Spider nest near me. They would have been over the kill—and me—in minutes. The hide’s fine. You can make boots out of what’s here. How much for it all?”

“Typical. You go for the top half because the antlers are worth money to the [Alchemists]. Nevermind the intestines being good for sausage or all the organs like the liver and—stop growling at me. I know, Shield Spiders. Damn it. Alright…let me check the quality of the meat. Give me a few minutes. And get a bucket of water and wash yourself off. You’re going to attract Acid Flies.”

A butcher’s. Or was it a [Butcher]? Erin saw more of that oddly cursive writing on storefronts, helpful sign posts…she guessed that this city would be easy to navigate. If she could read.

Oddly, everyone spoke the same. The furry fellow had a bit of a rolling ‘r’ to his voice and a growling tone, just like the Drakes elongated their ‘s’ and ‘l’ sounds, but they were speaking perfect English.

As for the butcher’s shop, what made Erin stare was the glass window. It had glass! It was the first glass she’d seen, and it astonished her because she hadn’t expected to see any in what she took to be a medieval world before they had access to the stuff in bulk. Wait, didn’t churches back then have glass? The point was she didn’t expect to see it in widespread use.

But glass was visible in a few buildings, and the more she looked, the more she noticed it. It wasn’t ubiquitous, but it was a window here, a pair of spectacles there—and one huge building with tons of people entering and exiting had a wand and a crystal ball icon over the front.

And then she wandered into an open plaza, and her mouth dropped. There were benches, even a park with trees and a playground over there! In this city! In fact, rising at one end of this plaza was a distinctly governmental building. It had large pillars, an open frontage that had less traffic, but a very familiar-looking sigil. The same one on Relc’s badge.

“That must be city hall or something. And the place with the wand—was that a magic shop…do they teach magic there? Do they sell wands? Wow. Wow. And I just need to find…a regular people shop.”

She was still overwhelmed, but Erin could catch her breath in the plaza with no one growling at her to keep moving. She took one breath, then another, then tried not to hyperventilate.

“Okay. Okay. I was lost before. I can do this.”

She had, in fact, been lost in a big city before. The key was noting where the foot-traffic was going. Erin guessed that led to places people shopped or did…things at. She kept monologuing; a lot of people were standing around or watching the children play. Again, Erin saw no little ant-people like Klbkch.

“What do I do if I get super-lost? Remember that street name. Squiggly line…got it. And if I can’t remember it or find my way back? Amsterdam, chess tournament. Start crying and ask where mom is…No, wait, I’m older now. Uh—uh—”

She heard a loud snorting sound from the side. Erin turned, and three dozen paces away, another furry person covered their mouth. They were laughing—at her.

“Sorry! We overheard, yes?”

They were a duo, male and female, watching a little boy run around on all fours. He was either naked or clothing didn’t matter with all his fur on. Erin turned beet red as she realized the parents had…heard her? She hurried off towards the most crowded street. Just try to blend in.

…After five minutes of walking, Erin realized she was lost again. She stared hopefully at another building with one of those broad frontages. Then she looked around. She peeked through a window and saw someone, another Drake, idly sitting at a wooden counter, head propped on one chin. Erin took a deep breath.

Then she went inside.



——



“Uh, is this a store?”

Every head in the Adventurer’s Guild in Liscor turned at the voice. Grizzled Drake warriors sporting scars from their heads to their tails, inhumanly tall furry people, most carrying bows, and several people who looked like mages, wearing robes or carrying staves, appraised the speaker who had just walked into the building.

A small Human. Possibly female. She stopped uncertainly the moment she noticed all the armor.

Unlike outside, the people in this building were not civilians. Civilians didn’t clank when they moved or sat down. These people, adventurers, wore armor, even in the morning, and they carried no daggers or shortswords, but had battleaxes strapped to their backs, longbows resting against the walls.

The figures at tables or clustered around a billboard appraised Erin for one heart-stopping second, then their eyes shifted away in disinterest. After a few seconds, Erin’s heart started beating again. She decided that this was definitely not the shop she was looking for. She almost turned and ran again when a voice rang out.

“Ah, hello? We can help you over here.”

A voice called to Erin across the low murmuring. She saw a green-scaled Drake, her scales as fair as light grass under sunlight, waving at her from behind a counter. She looked faintly bored, but peered at Erin with less instant hostility than most people in this foreign city.

She was much smaller and had thinner limbs than Relc. Erin guessed she was female on the basis of her voice. The dress was also a big clue: light blue and flowed like running water, two straps along her shoulders providing support.

Hesitantly, Erin made her way over to the counter. The female receptionist gave her a close-lipped smile. She scrutinized Erin up and down and then launched into a rehearsed, if tired, spiel.

“Good day, Miss. How can we help you today? Do you have a bounty or request to post? Or are you registering?”

“Registering? Quest? Oh no, I’m not here for…uh, anything. I just thought this might be a store, so I…”

“Oh, I see! No worries, Miss Human. You’re just in the wrong spot, but I can give you directions if you’d like.”

The receptionist smiled again. And because she didn’t seem hostile or annoyed, this time Erin smiled back.

“Oops, sorry. Uh, where am I?”

The Drake chuckled as if it weren’t obvious.

“This is the Adventurer’s Guild. That lot didn’t tip you off?”

She nodded to the armed people lounging around. Erin blinked and her eyes went wide.

“The Adventurer’s Guild?”

“Didn’t they have one back in your city?”

The Drake raised her brows in frank disbelief. Erin stared around the room with renewed interest. Now that she wasn’t being pierced by a thousand glares, she could take in the building properly. It was a large place, and, at first, Erin thought she’d walked into an inn. Or a bar. But now that she knew what she was looking at, the receptionist behind the counter made a lot of sense.

“N—I mean, I’ve never been in one before.”

She wondered if that was a stupid thing to say, but the Drake just flashed her another big smile, reassuring.

“That’s quite alright. Not everyone needs to use an Adventurer’s Guild. Most never will, hopefully. If you’ve never needed any services, let me give you the basic explanation. Here you can let the Guild know about dangerous monsters in your area, post quests and offer rewards, or if you’re an adventurer yourself, you can go look at assignments or receive your reward.”

The receptionist pointed to a large wooden board nailed up against one wall. It had quite a lot of parchment stuck to the wood, and several large and burly adventurers were gathered around it, talking amongst themselves.

“Wow.”

Erin studied the adventurers. They were all wearing armor, although the quality and amount varied from person to person. Most of the Drakes seemed content to wear only armguards or the occasional helmet without much chest armor, but several of the large hairy dog-hyena-people were wearing chainmail, and in one case, real plate armor.

That wasn’t all, of course. Some adventurers weren’t wearing any armor at all. But they were all armed. Erin spotted several Drakes wearing light robes and carrying staves or daggers at their belts. One even looked like they were wearing armor made out of some dark, glossy material. It didn’t look comfortable, but they definitely looked ready for a fight. Erin whispered as she saw one of the Drakes flick a claw and produce a few sparks, to the amusement of her companions.

“Real mages. That is so cool.”

“…Miss? Excuse me, Miss?”

Erin looked around. She realized the receptionist had been trying to get her attention for some time now.

“Oh, I’m really sorry. What was that you were saying?”

“Are you a traveller, Miss? Or maybe…an adventurer? Are you here to register?”

The look the she-Drake gave her said this wasn’t much of a possibility. But she was very friendly, and Erin tried to explain.

“Oh no. I’m, uh, an innkeeper. I guess. Or maybe a wanderer? Actually, I’m just new around here.”

The receptionist looked interested. She sat up a bit and added a different emphasis to the class than Erin had.

“An [Innkeeper], is it? Are you opening up a business here? Humans almost never move to Liscor. I’m Selys, by the way. I should have said so from the start. My apologies.”

Selys offered Erin a hand. It was such a Human gesture Erin had to smile as she shook her hand. It felt weird touching the cool scales, but not unpleasant. She was almost worried about the claws, but she didn’t even feel a prick as Selys returned the smile, again, without teeth.

“I’m Erin. Erin Solstice. And no, I’m not, uh, innkeeping here. I live outside the city. In an inn a ways away. I guess. I just came here, because I needed to go shopping. Badly.”

She indicated her ripped and stained clothing. Selys eyed that with a slow nod.

“Well, I can’t leave the desk, but I can give you some directions. No wonder you were lost—you can’t read any of the signs, can you? Your people normally stick to the north; Esthelm’s as far as most get. What brings you out so far? Oh, and what are you looking for?”

“Um. A teleportation spell got me here? And I need food. Flour, oil, butter, salt…that kind of thing. And I need clothing. Lots of clothing. And toothpaste!”

Selys gave Erin a longer look, as if trying to see whether Erin was joking or not. She replied after a moment.

“Well, if it’s food and general supplies you’re looking for, try the market two streets down from here. To get to it, just take a left as you walk out of here and then turn right, and you’ll be there in no time. They’d also have some clothes there, but I’m not sure if they have any made for Humans. What kind of teleportation spell did that? You mean, people teleportation? Gone wrong? That would be a huge scandal. Anyways, the market will have everything you need.”

“Oh, that’s great. Thank you so much. About how I got here—I don’t know if it was an accident or me—maybe teleportation! But um. Right now I’m just trying to get by. So the market is two streets down and left and right…?”

Erin had already forgotten the directions. Selys repeated them, then mouthed what Erin had said. ‘Maybe teleportation’?

Erin was too flustered to notice. She could memorize most of what she needed pretty easily, but when she was nervous, things slipped. She wished she had her smartphone or Google Maps. A map would be useless since she had never learned how to read them.

“I’m also looking for a place to get some other supplies. I don’t suppose you know where—”

A large, hairy hand grabbed Erin by the shoulder and pulled her around.

“Huh?”

Erin was looking at a wall of brown hair. She was sure that wasn’t there a minute ago. She looked up.

A hyena’s face stared down at her. Or rather, a hyena’s face on a humanoid body covered in fur. It was one of the adventurers in the guild and it—he—didn’t look happy.

But he wasn’t saying anything. Rather, he was looming. Erin could tell it was looming by the way he stood and the way she felt like an ant. She didn’t know why he was angry at her. Maybe he just wanted to pick on someone. She opened her mouth and tried diplomacy.

“Um. Hi. Are you—are you a wolf-person?”

It was definitely the wrong thing to say. The pissed-off look on the hairy hyena-guy’s face only got worse. He growled at her in a rumbling voice that sounded like…well, what Erin imagined a dog would sound like if it could talk.

“Do I look like a Wolf Beastkin?”

“N-no?”

Erin backed up a step and found the counter was right behind her. She looked over her shoulder and saw Selys gazing at her worriedly, but the receptionist didn’t come to her aid.

The not-werewolf leaned over and growled in her face.

“I’m a Gnoll.”

His breath was terrible. Erin felt weak at the knees just smelling it.

“Right. I’m very sorry about that. Um. Can I help you?”

“You’re in my way. This is for adventurers.”

“Right. Sorry. Sorry about that.”

Erin stepped to one side so he could get to Selys. He didn’t move forward, though. Instead he just glared some more. A few more seconds of glaring made Erin stutter.

“Is—is there something else you want?”

The Gnoll twisted his neck and cracked it. It sounded like firecrackers going off and scared the hell out of Erin.

“I don’t like Humans. They smell. You smell like garbage. Like rancid oil and flames and things that turn my stomach. And Goblins and dust and mold.”

Erin stepped away again, but the angry Gnoll just followed her. She knew she was being watched by the other adventurers in the room now. But, like Selys, they seemed content to watch the Human-bullying without making a move.

“R-really? I can’t smell anything.”

“That’s because Humans can’t smell anything.”

The comment came from behind Erin, but she was too scared to turn around. It had the same growling quality to the voice though, so she was sure it was another Gnoll.

“Right. Well. I’m sorry about that.”

Erin tried to sidestep the Gnoll, but he blocked her way.

“I don’t want Humans in here. You don’t belong.”

“Hold on, now. She’s just lost.”

At last, Selys came to Erin’s aid. The female Drake leaned over the counter and called out to the Gnoll. Now, Erin realized he had a bag of dripping something. There was a long, bug-like leg sticking out of it, he was covered in green blood—and some red—and he looked tired and angry.

“If you’ve got a bounty—Shield Spiders—I’ll process it now. But this Human was just asking directions. You can’t just kick someone out who—”

He looked at her and snarled. Selys flinched and shut up.

Across the room, Erin saw the Drakes in the room stir. One of them hissed softly.

The Gnoll glared at the Drakes, and they glared right back. One of his hands twitched towards the sword at his side, but he didn’t make any move to grab it. Still, the tension was so thick that Erin was sure if a Gnoll or Drake moved the room would explode.

Erin was wondering whether she should run when the Gnoll broke off the staring contest and swung around to her.

“You. You’re stinking up this place with dirt and filth. I can smell the things you’ve rolled in. You haven’t washed in—dead gods. I’m covered in Shield Spider guts and you smell worse! Take a bath before you come back here.”

He jabbed at Erin’s stained shirt with one pointed claw. She jumped back nervously from the long, filthy nails.

“Oh. Yeah. Um, I’m really sorry about that. It’s just that I’ve been sort of fending for myself, and I didn’t have a change of clothes so—”

The Gnoll leaned forward. Erin could see the individual whiskers protruding out of his snout. She could smell his rancid breath. But she was mainly focused on his jagged teeth.

“Begone.”

Erin hesitated. She cast one glance towards Selys, but the receptionist wouldn’t meet her eyes.

The Gnoll growled, and Erin backed up. He herded her towards the door, and once she was out, he slammed it shut behind her. The last thing she saw was Selys waving at her guiltily.

That was the first building Erin was kicked out of in her visit to the city. It wasn’t her last. Not by a long shot.





1.12


Erin walked through the city, feeling the unwelcome sun warming the back of her neck. She was hot, sweaty, and tired. But most of all, she was anxious. It was a terrible, biting pain in her stomach that refused to leave her no matter how much she tried to relax. Because she couldn’t.

She was lost. Not just geographically, but in every sense. Right now, she was making her way to the market Selys had told her about. But she was still lost.

She didn’t belong to this city. The people had been a mix of unfriendly or—well, not all of them had been bad, like Selys and that first Drake, but Erin was the outsider, and it wasn’t a pleasant feeling. She tried to take her mind off things by admiring the city.

It really was like an older city. True, there was a lot more roundness in the architecture of the buildings—a lot of gently sloping roofs and open rooftops rather than the angular buildings Erin was used to. Stone and wood and yes, glass, but it felt to Erin like one of the older cities of Europe—hallmarks of older architecture without the steel or metal that was everywhere in a modern metropolis.

It was pleasant to stare at this foreign architecture and feel like a traveller to some part of Earth she had never experienced before. The people were what really got to her.

They weren’t Human. No matter how long Erin stayed in the city and walked its streets, she couldn’t get over that. Every face she saw in the crowd was inhuman, and the majority of them were Drakes. There was the occasional Gnoll or other furry face in the lot, but they were mostly reptilian.

All kinds of reptilian, too. Long snouts, delicate spines on the neck, elongated neck, big eyes, slitted eyes, stub snouts. They all had very large teeth, though. Only rarely did Erin glimpse a walking ant man—or ant woman, she couldn’t tell—walking by.

Klbkch’s people were few and far between. Erin saw them scurrying along, sometimes in groups, other times by themselves, mostly with tools in hand, heads down, clearly on a mission. People avoided them almost as much as they avoided her, but it really said something that a Human was the person people stared at, even more than insect-folk. It was also adding to Erin’s anxiety.

She wished they’d stop looking at her. That was the one thing that made walking through this city so hard. While she was staring at the exotic sights and people, they were staring right back. And it seemed that they didn’t like what they saw.

Erin tried to walk quickly down the street. That way she’d avoid offending anyone else. She didn’t have a good record at the moment.

“Kicked out of three shops. And two homes. And then the Adventurer’s Guild.”

To be fair, some of them looked like shops. Why no one put up any signs so people could tell the difference was beyond Erin.

“Well, there are signs. I just can’t read them.”

It was a funny thing. Erin could speak the exact same language as Relc and Klbkch, but for some reason, she couldn’t read anything they wrote. It was probably because…of magic.

“Magic. Either that or they’re all bilingual. Or trilingual. Or something.”

A Drake walking the opposite way down the street gave her an odd look. Erin shut up. Her habit of talking to herself was making her weirder than normal.

Still, that alone didn’t explain why it seemed like the entire city hated her. True, she kept walking into places and asking where she was, but that was…okay, that was really annoying. But she was just as unfavorably received on the street, it seemed.

“Move it, Human.”

“Out of the way, smooth skin.”

“Watch it, fleshbag.”

Actually, no one had ever said that last one to her. Or the second one, either. Or the first, in point of fact. They didn’t say anything at all, really. Almost all of the Drakes stared at her, while the Gnolls and other furry people walked as far away from her as possible. But they all watched her constantly.

Some glanced out of the corner of their eyes. Others were less discreet and openly stared at her. Erin saw a few small Drake-children pointing at her and felt out of place. In a sea of scales and fur, she was the only Human. She felt so alone it hurt.

Erin turned right and found herself on another kind of street. This one was wider, had cobblestone paving, and a lot of wooden stalls. It was a market.

“Finally.”

Erin sighed with relief and walked forward. She’d finally reached her destination, and it had only taken her…an hour. Possibly two.

And better luck, Erin seemed to be in the section selling food. Tons of shopkeepers stood or sat in their shaded stalls displaying bins full of food. Here was a Drake selling weird blue-leaved plants that looked like oversized white carrots…or dead maggots. There was another Drake cutting meat for a waiting customer as flies buzzed around his stall. And there was—

A Gnoll.

Erin passed by a larger stall than most, tended to by a tall Gnoll, although they were all tall in her eyes. This one seemed to be selling a lot of stuff, and not just food. Erin was tempted to stop and browse, but the Gnoll shopkeeper complicated things. She was dithering when the Gnoll spotted her and roared out above the general hubbub.

“You, Human! If you’re looking for a bargain, shop here!”

Erin’s heart jumped. Gnolls were, like Relc, loud. And her voice had put every eye back on Erin.

Yet, the Gnoll woman had bared all her teeth then caught herself, closed her mouth in a tight-lipped smile, and beckoned Erin over. She wore a kind of animal hide sarong, albeit lined with some soft cloth on the inside, a breastband of the same material, and little else. Mostly because her shop had a thin canopy that meant she got the most of the sun, standing or sitting in it all day.

Her fur was spotted with jet black dots, but the rest of it was russet brown and, Erin thought, neatly combed or maintained. She was at least six-foot-something, and her smile was direct, even if her eyes were slightly calculating. But she did smile without a hint of anger or annoyance, and she’d called to Erin. So the young woman hesitated and then walked over to the stall.

As she approached, the Gnoll’s nose wrinkled and she waved a paw in front of her face. Erin’s heart sank, but the Gnoll made no comment.

“Well, what are you seeking?”

The Gnoll looked intently at Erin. She looked angry, or maybe Gnolls always sounded brisk and impatient.

“Oh, um. I’m just looking.”

“Can I get you anything? What are you looking for?”

“I’m—I’ll just look around if that’s okay.”

“I…could help you find what you want. Krshia’s Silverfang Goods. Do you have anything you want or—?”

It was entirely reasonable, but Erin began sweating at once. She backed away a step.

“No, I’ll just wander around and—look. Thank you.”

Erin edged back from the Gnoll’s shop. She really didn’t want to be chased out of the market yet.

“Hrmf. Suit yourself.”

The Gnoll looked away. She was definitely annoyed now, even if she hadn’t been before. Erin backed away and looked towards the next stall.

This one looked equally promising. And better yet, it was tended to by a Drake. Which wasn’t that much better, true, but at least he wasn’t wrinkling his nose. Maybe because he wasn’t looking at her.

Erin approached the stall carefully and gazed at the many items on display. Let’s see. There were lots of bags piled up neatly, and in front of them there were little bins of their contents on display. That was good since Erin couldn’t read any of the words on the store signs.

But there! She saw flour, salt, and even sugar on display along with other dried goods. The Drake was selling dried sausages that hung from hooks at the top of his little shop, dried onions and garlic in baskets, and a number of dried roots and spices in one corner of the shop.

“Hi. Is this a food shop?”

The Drake looked over at her.

“What does it look like, Human?”

Erin winced internally at the tone of his voice. But he wasn’t wrinkling his nose still or glaring. He just looked annoyed.

“Oh, I’m looking for food. Lots of it.”

She heard a very loud and angry snort come from the Gnoll shopkeeper. She winced, externally this time.

“What you see is what I have.”

The Drake indicated his goods with a wave of one claw. That sounded like an invitation to Erin, so she stepped inside the stall and peered around. Flour was what she was most interested in. With that and a bit of oil, salt, etcetera, she could make bread, pasta, and other filling things. It was the best place to start. She bent down to examine the flour—

“No touching the food with your filthy hands unless you’re buying!”

The Drake’s voice made Erin jump away. She caught herself before she fell backwards. He was glaring at her.

“Don’t touch. You’ll stink it up with your Human smell.”

“Sorry. Sorry.”

Erin backed away from the goods on display, hands raised. She guessed she really did smell.

The shopkeeper directed his full and unhappy attention towards her.

“What do you want? Name it and I’ll fetch it for you.”

“Oh, okay.”

Erin floundered.

“Um. I’m looking for a few things, actually. Uh, do you have any butter?”

“It’s right there on the sign.”

The Drake tapped the little piece of paper pinned to the stall. Erin looked at it desperately, but just saw squiggles and lines in all the wrong places.

“Uh. I can’t read that. Sorry.”

He hissed softly in annoyance. Erin winced again.

“But I’d like some. Butter, that is.”

He slowly and grudgingly turned and pulled out a small pot with a small cork for a lid.

“Oh. Great.”

Erin wasn’t sure if she should ask to see how much butter was inside. She wanted to hold the little pot too, but the shopkeeper’s expression also vetoed that idea.

“And, uh, I’d like some oil too. Do you have another jar…?”

The Drake sighed loudly in annoyance.

“I don’t have all day to play fetch for you, Human. Just tell me what you want to buy first.”

“Okay.”

He wasn’t throwing things or chasing her away, so that was as good as it was going to get, Erin guessed. She took a deep breath and rattled off whatever she could remember she needed.

“I’m looking for some flour, salt, butter, oil, and sugar. Oh! And yeast. I’ll need yeast too. If you have it.”

The Drake didn’t move.

“Anything else?”

Erin looked around quickly.

“Um. Those sausages. How much do they cost?”

Erin pointed to the sausages hanging from a hook. They looked mouthwateringly plump. She had the idea she could fry some up with the pasta. Just the thought was making her stomach rumble.

The Drake’s eyes flicked over to them.

“How many?”

Erin rummaged in her pocket and pulled out her precious coins. She saw the Drake’s eyes widen just a fraction as she showed him the mix of silver and bronze and two gold coins.

“Well, if I’ve got enough, I’d like to buy a few of those. And some onions.”

There weren’t many vegetables here. Only some garlic and shriveled roots in one bin. But she could always go to the Gnoll and ask—well, maybe not the Gnoll. But there were probably other shops that sold produce.

The Drake eyed the coins in her hand and flicked his eyes up to her. Erin felt like she was being assessed, and she didn’t enjoy the feeling. For all she was a paying customer, he still looked like he was angry at her for some reason.

At last the shopkeeper seemed to come to a decision. He flicked his tongue out of his mouth and glared at her.

“Two gold coins. Eight silver. That will buy you a bag of flour, oil, butter, four sausages, two onions, and a bag of sugar, salt, and yeast.”

Erin hesitated. She eyed the meaningless symbols on the little plaque again. The Gnoll shopkeeper to Erin’s left seemed to be having a breathing problem. She was choking on the air. Erin glanced to the side.

“Are—are you sure that’s the price? I mean, it sounds like a lot—”

“Are you calling me a liar?”

The Drake raised his voice angrily. Erin could see other customers and shopkeepers looking around.

“No, no! I was just saying that—”

“Typical Humans. Walking in here, stinking up the market, and insulting any non-Humans you find. You should be grateful the Guard doesn’t run you out of the city! First that damn [Necromancer] comes here, and now this smelly one that can’t even read.”

“Lism!”

The Gnoll woman hissed, but he ignored her. The Drake seemed to be inflating with rage. Erin didn’t know what she’d done to set him off—besides the smell—but she tried to be diplomatic.

“Look, I was just asking about the price.”

“I just gave you my price. Take it or leave it.”

“But can we negotiate? I mean, how about two gold coins? What’s the price of the flour? If I pay you—”

The Drake shopkeeper let out a strangled hissing sound.

“Human, I have a business to run and a store to manage! Either pay me my price or be gone. You won’t find a better offer in this market.”

Looking around, Erin guessed that was true. She was getting unfriendly looks from the other shopkeepers down the street, especially the Gnoll whose wares she’d walked by.

“Okay. I’ll buy it all.”

She placed the gold and silver coins on the counter since he wasn’t holding his hand out. He eyed the coins, sniffed once, and swept them away.

“Here. Your food. Take it.”

The shopkeeper began grabbing items and slamming them down on the counter. He shoved them all together in a huge untidy pile and threw a few dented copper coins down too. Some rolled onto the ground.

Erin hesitated, but the shopkeeper’s scaly back was already expressively turned away. She heard what sounded like hissing laughter and muttered comments from behind her and turned red.

Slowly, Erin bent down and began picking up the fallen copper coins. She tried to avoid looking at anyone or anything.

When she finally stood up, the shopkeeper was looking at her expressionlessly. He flicked one claw towards her.

“If you’re done grubbing in the dirt, I have more customers to serve.”

Erin knew her face was red. Her eyes were burning, but she was determined not to do anything else. She took a deep breath and tried to steady her voice as much as possible. Still, it wobbled a bit as she said one last thing.

“…Can I buy a bag?”



——



Erin sat in the shade of one of the buildings and stared silently at the four silver coins in her hand, which was all she had left after buying a large cloth bag and the food. It wasn’t so bad. She still had some money, and she’d bought enough food for now. It was just enough for…well, she didn’t know. But it certainly wasn’t enough for a lantern, much less a sword. She doubted it was even enough for her clothes.

She’d started out with two gold coins and a full handful of silver and copper ones. And in an instant, they’d been spent. True, she’d bought a lot of food. Stuff like sugar was expensive, right? Especially in a place that wasn’t modern like this. It was just…she couldn’t help but feel it was a mistake.

She hadn’t seen any other shoppers trade gold coins for what they’d bought. Not one and especially not that much for some food. She had a bad feeling in the pit of her stomach. She thought—

No. She knew she’d been ripped off.

And it hurt. It really did. Erin wanted to go back there and punch the Drake shopkeeper in the face, but she had a pretty good idea of what would happen if she did. Plus, he could probably eat her face if she tried.

So. Erin sat and stared at her hand. Four silver coins.

She could still go shopping with that much money. She could find another market, find another shop, and…

And do what? She didn’t know how much money things cost, and she didn’t know how to buy clothes for herself.

Everyone in this city wore clothing, but the definition of that really varied. Some of the male Gnolls wore extremely exposed clothing, sometimes leaving their chests completely bare save for a light cloak, while the female ones usually had more on. Still, even that was varied because it seemed showing skin—or rather, scales—was the fashion around here. Only the Drakes seemed to adhere to a dress code she was used to.

It was one of the hidden truths of the world. Money was useless if you had no idea what to spend it on and everyone ripped you off.

Everything would be so much simpler if she could read. Was that too much to ask?

Erin put her head on her arm and closed her eyes for a moment. Her head jerked up, and she nearly smacked it against the building behind her as she realized something.

She couldn’t read. But she knew people who could.

Relc. Or Klbkch. Either one of them would know all about clothing and money and stuff like that.

Erin stood up. She pocketed her silver coins and wished she’d thought of this before she’d lost all her money. But maybe four silver coins was a lot of money? She’d have to ask. And they’d help her, surely. Because that’s what guardsmen did, right? Just like how police officers were so willing to help anyone who came to them with a problem.

Erin pushed that thought out of her head. Guardsmen were not police officers. They were allowed to kill people without due process, for one thing. But Relc liked her pasta, and he and Klbkch had been kind to her. Now all she had to do was find the guardhouse without being able to read the signs.

She started walking down the street, looking around for anything that screamed of jail cells or law and order. She tried very hard not to think about what she’d do if Relc or Klbkch were both off-duty.

——

Relc was off-duty. So was Klbkch. But for the moment, Relc was lounging around the mess hall of the guard’s barracks. He was playing a game where he tossed a wickedly sharp dagger up into the air and caught it as it fell back towards the floor. Half the time, he caught the dagger. The other half, he missed or knocked the dagger flying. He sat in a widely vacated corner of the room.

Only a few other Drakes were sitting at the long wooden benches, chowing down on hard bread, cheese, and unidentifiable strips of meat. Well, unidentifiable to Humans. It was more grey than red.

One of the guards was talking with his fellows. He stood up and approached Relc cautiously. Unlike Relc, his scales were a very pale blue, and he was smaller if not shorter than the other Drake. He cleared his throat while standing at a respectful distance from Relc’s game.

“Hey Relc. I hear there’s a Human wandering around the city.”

Relc looked up and missed the dagger as it flipped down.

“Ow.”

The other guardsman sighed as Relc sucked at the point of red blood oozing from his scales.

“You’ve got no talent for that game. If you didn’t have [Thick Scales], you’d have cut your hand off years ago.”

Relc smiled smugly.

“[Iron Scales].”

The blue Drake rolled his eyes.

“That explains everything. What kind of level do you have to be to get that, anyways? No one else has it, so it must be high level.”

“It is.”

Relc began trimming his claws with the dagger. Although in his case, he wasn’t making the nails shorter, just sharpening them.

“It was the last skill I got from my [Sergeant] class. I think you get it in [Spearmaster] as well, but I don’t know. Either way, it’s a life-saver.”

“I’ll bet. No wonder you don’t worry about hurting yourself, you smooth-scaled bastard.”

“Now, now. Don’t be jealous.”

Relc swept the nail clippings off the table with one hand.

“Too bad I never got any dagger skills. I can’t understand how this stupid flipping works.”

“Then stop flipping. It’s annoying, and you keep nearly hitting people. Remember poor Tkrn the day he signed up? He still flinches whenever he sees a dagger.”

“No. If Klbkch can do it, so can I. Anything that damn bug can do I can do better. But hey, what’s this about a Human? Is it that female one I was telling you about?”

“Not sure.”

This time, another green Drake jumped into the conversation.

“Belsc—the guy on eastern gate duty—he didn’t say much other than that he thought it was a Human female. What was the name of the one you met?”

Relc scratched his head and looked up at the ceiling.

“Um. Erin something. Sol? Solace? It was something like that. Erin Solace? Did he mention anything else about her?”

The blue-scaled Drake bared his teeth.

“Yeah. He said she was really annoying. And she talked too much.”

“That’s her.”

Relc laughed. The other Drake shook his head as a few more [Guards] glanced over.

“Humans. I don’t know why you’re interested in this one. It’s certainly not the smell, to hear Belsc talk.”

“Yeah, you get used to that.”

Relc leaned back in his chair and played with the dagger. He smiled to himself, warming to his theme of stupid Humans. It was a popular topic in Liscor—especially with the annual Blood Fields battle almost upon them. He felt a tiny bit guilty, but he was also still mad about yesterday.

She’d chosen a [Necromancer] over him. Which was just Humans sticking to their own kind, so Relc kept talking as he trimmed at his nails.

“Still, she’s interesting. Erin, or whatever her name is. She makes a mean plate of pasta, let me tell you. And she’s tougher than she looks—I didn’t think any Human could survive out in the Floodplains that long. She’s funny too.”

He grinned as the other guards made disparaging noises. Relc raised his voice.

“Hey, I’m telling the truth here. Little Miss Human isn’t that bad. You should meet her. But let me tell you, she can also be pretty annoying. Remember that [Necromancer] guy I told you me and Klbkch tracked down? She wouldn’t let us kill him even after he blasted us both with a few spells. Just kept saying that he wasn’t that bad.”

“Stupid Humans.”

“I know!”

Relc nodded in agreement with the other guard.

“They’re interesting and entertaining, but they don’t have much inside their fleshy heads. I’d never trust a Human to have my back. Drakes stick together and Humans do their thing in the north, am I right?”

Relc looked around for confirmation as the other Drakes laughed with him. He laughed boisterously until he saw the young woman staring at him across the mess hall. His laughter cut off instantly.

“Oh.”

The other Drakes looked over in curiosity at the Human female. She wasn’t that special to them; one Human looked much like any other. She was staring at Relc, who looked extremely uncomfortable.

He cleared his throat.

“Um. I—”

The door closed behind Erin as she walked out.

A nasty silence fell over the mess hall. Relc looked at the others.

“How long was she here?”

The blue Drake shrugged.

“Dunno. She must’ve walked in while you were talking.”

“Oh, bite me.”

Relc leapt up from his chair.

“Hey, Miss Human! Wait! I didn’t mean it!”

The other Drakes watched as he dashed out of the room. Then they turned back to their conversation. One of the Gnolls flicked his gaze towards the blue-scaled Drake, who looked slightly smug at how everything had gone down.

“So. When did you spot her?”

“Right at the start. Did you see her expression? Relc’s not gonna have an easy time explaining that.”

“Serves him right. But did you smell her?”

“Yeah. Humans. They don’t wash.”

“I hear they roll around in their own filth.”

“Disgusting. Why’s Relc interested in one anyways?”

“Why do you think?”

“I still don’t get it. There’s no scales, nothing firm to grab. What’s the point?”

“Search me. Maybe it’s just Relc. He’s weird.”

“True.”

“Anyways, Humans. Haven’t seen one in a long time. Did you see it? So fleshy.”

“Disgusting. Let’s go eat some meat.”

“Agreed.”

——

Erin walked out of the city gates and through the grass. She walked as fast as she could, which wasn’t very. The cloth bag she was carrying was more like a satchel, and it was loaded down with a lot of stuff. She was impressed that it could fit the bag of flour and other ingredients she’d bought without the fabric breaking, but it also meant she had to carry all of that on her shoulders.

The bag of flour was quite heavy. But Erin carried it anyways, ignoring the pain in her right shoulder. Her left one was already sore. She’d switch shoulders when the pain became unbearable.

“Hey! Miss Erin! Wait!”

Erin kept walking.

“Oh come on. Please?”

Relc appeared next to her in a blur. He was quick for such a huge guy. Erin turned her head so she didn’t have to look at him directly.

“So, how’s my favorite Human doing? Good? Bad? Um. I, uh, don’t suppose you heard what I was saying. It was just a joke, really. I didn’t mean…”

She kept walking. Erin’s feet were already sore, but she put one foot in front of the other. She had a long way to go to get back to the inn, and the bag she was carrying was heavy.

“Look, I know I was sort of—okay, I was rude, but let’s talk. Hello? Are you listening?”

Erin didn’t look at him or speak. She just kept walking. Put one foot in front of the other. She was so tired and sore she barely felt hungry.

——

Eventually, he went away. Erin kept walking though. She was trying to make it back to the inn before the sun set. It was going to be a close race.

She was about halfway to her destination when the first stone flew over her head. Erin instinctively ducked and so the next two stones missed her and landed in the grass. She looked around.

At first, she couldn’t spot where the stones were coming from. Two more missed her, but the third struck her on the shoulder.

“Ow. Ow!”

Erin spotted the origin of the stones. It was a Goblin. The small creature was hard to spot in the fading twilight. It was standing on a hill and hurling rocks down at Erin. And it wasn’t alone.

Two more Goblins screeched and threw stones at her from their hilltop, making her flinch away and pull the bag up to shield her head. But then they just pelted her legs. They were bigger than the first one and staring at her burdens.

Her food. They wanted her food, and they’d laid an ambush! Erin tried to shield her head with the bag of flour and got a sharp strike to the chest.

“Ah. Ow.”

She covered her face with her arms. The stones kept flying. And they hurt. Even at this distance, the rocks cut her arms and bruised her flesh. Already, she felt blood trickling down one arm.

Erin knelt on the ground and shielded her head with her bag. That made her less of a target, but the barrage of stones continued. It wasn’t as if the Goblins could hurt her, not so long as they kept hitting her back, but they just didn’t stop. And if she got up, they’d aim for her head.

What could she do? Erin felt the stinging hail cut into her back. She had to run. At them? Away? They’d steal all her food if she did. But could she attack them? Fight? If she got any closer, the stones could gouge out her eyes, injure her badly. What could she do? What could she—

Something moved past Erin in a blast of air. She flinched and looked around, but it was already gone. Then her eyes travelled to the hill. Someone was rushing at the Goblins, ducking under the stones and deflecting the ones that came close to his head with a fast-moving…spear…?

“Hey! Slither off, you little bastards!”

The stones stopped flying abruptly. Erin heard a high-pitched scream and several heavy thwacks. Cautiously, she got up and looked around.

The Goblins were running away in full retreat. Relc stood on the hilltop, spear in hand. He waved at her and leapt down the hill in a few long strides.

“Hello there, Miss Erin. Fancy meeting you here.”

Erin stared up at him. He offered her a toothy grin and a hand up. She stood up by herself and picked up her bag.

Relc cleared his throat expectantly.

“It’s not often I get to rescue a damsel in distress. That’s what they call Human females, right? Damsels? Anyways, I saw you were in trouble, so I immediately rushed to help.”

“Thanks.”

Erin began walking again. She heard Relc follow after a second’s hesitation.

“Okay, okay. So they weren’t that dangerous. And I was just doing my job; true. But I am sorry. Really. I said too much back there.”

She said nothing. Her vision was blurring over from the cutting pain of the bag’s strap as it carved a groove into her shoulder.

“That looks heavy. Here, let me carry it for you.”

Relc reached for the bag. Erin pulled away.

“No. I’m fine.”

“Oh come on. Don’t be like that. I just—well, it was just me being careless, alright? Let’s talk. Please?”

Erin tried to walk faster, but her legs were already giving up. Relc easily kept pace with her. He was even able to walk backwards faster than her.

“Look. I’m very sorry, Miss Erin. Let me carry your bag. It must be quite heavy, and this way we can talk without one of us falling over.”

Erin grudgingly slowed down. It was a tempting offer. Her legs were screaming at her to accept Relc’s generous offer and have him carry her as well. Her shoulder was already in another dimension of pain.

“Fine.”

She unslung the bag, wincing as blood returned to her arm. Relc lifted the bag with one hand and slung it over his shoulder. Then he kept pace with Erin as if nothing had happened.

“So.”

“So.”

Relc scratched the spines on the back of his head, looked down, looked up, and sighed.

“I really didn’t mean it. It’s just—[Necromancers], y’know? They’re dangerous. And it’s best to kill them on sight. You ever seen a thousand zombies trying to eat anything in sight? Even if they’re low-level, even if they play nice, I could never trust a [Necromancer].”

“Especially not if they’re Human.”

“I didn’t say that.”

“But that’s what you think.”

Relc didn’t have anything to say to that. They both walked on in silence, faster now that the bag wasn’t weighing Erin down.

“So. You bought food, huh? Making lots of pasta tonight?”

“I’m going to sleep.”

“Right, right. But, uh, good to see you made it to the city. So how’d you like it?”

“It’s fine.”

“Good, good.”

Relc was clearly casting around desperately for subject matters. He peeked into the bag. Erin could practically feel him salivating.

“Sausages. Mm. But hey, why didn’t you buy any clothes? I thought all females loved clothes, Drake or Human.”

Erin’s stomach twisted. She avoided his gaze and mumbled.

“I didn’t have enough money.”

“What, really?”

Relc looked at her askance and peered into the bag he was carrying.

“No. I mean, there’s food in here, but that’s only a few silver coins at best. I’m sure you had more than that, right? How much did you spend?”

Erin felt her face heating up. She looked at the ground.

“A couple gold coins. Some silver ones.”

He stopped. Erin didn’t. She heard him muttering to himself and then swearing. It sounded like swearing. He loped forwards and was next to her in an instant.

“Really? What kind of rotscale sold you—why did you spend that much money?”

She stared at the grass as she trampled it. It was tinted with a lovely deep orange color in the sun’s fading glow.

“I just thought it was the right price, I guess. I didn’t want to argue.”

Relc muttered under his breath and sighed in exasperation.

“Well, I could go back to the market and ask around. But—I don’t suppose you caught the name of the store.”

“I can’t read the language here.”

Relc sighed again. Deeply.

“Right, right. Well, if you remembered his face, I could find who sold you all that, but I doubt anyone’d bear witness against him. And there’s not much for me to go on. I mean, he sold you overpriced goods but it was your fault as well. No offense meant, Miss, but how’d you trade a gold coin for a sack or two of flour?”

Erin couldn’t think of anything to say to that.

“Sorry.”

They walked on in silence. At last, the inn was in sight. Erin trudged up the last incline, her legs screaming all the way. She paused at the door.

“I can take the bag now.”

Relc hesitated.

“You sure? I can carry it in—”

“I’m sure.”

Erin accepted the bag, and her legs wobbled. She opened the door with one hand.

“Right. Thanks.”

She wanted to close the door, but Relc held it open effortlessly. He scratched at the back of his neck awkwardly.

“Look, I’m still really sorry about before. I didn’t mean—well, I’m sorry. I’ll make it up to you, I promise.”

Erin looked up at him. She just wanted to close her eyes. But he seemed sincere. So she mustered a bit of sincerity herself.

“Thanks for helping. With the Goblins.”

Relc gave her a wide, toothy grin.

“It was nothing. They’re no threat to me or anyone with a few levels in any warrior class. But don’t worry about those pests. I said I’d make it up to you, didn’t I? I’ll do something about them.”

Maybe it was an empty promise. But it made Erin smile a tiny bit.

“Thanks. Good night.”

Relc curled his tail up and flicked her a salute with both hand and tail at the same time.

“Until later, Miss Erin.”

Erin watched as he rapidly disappeared into the dark landscape. She vaguely envied the speed and effortless grace with which he moved. Then she closed the door.



——



The moment she threw the first stone, the littlest Goblin felt bad. Especially when it nearly hit the Human in the face. But she had to, because the two older Goblins made her.

They’d found her sneaking around the inn and had pulled at her ears. Hard. She was wasting time when she should be gathering things, making grass baskets, or doing something for the tribe.

She had screeched and protested, but then they’d all seen the Human coming back to her inn. With food. They could smell it.

The older Goblins, male and female, had debated. They knew that the warriors had lost to her and they had no chance of killing her even with their rusted daggers. But if they threw stones, she’d have to drop the food. Then the littlest Goblin could run down, grab some, and run off.

The littlest Goblin was so hungry—always hungry—that she did what they told her to. They were tossing stones down at the Human as she shouted at them. Just some food! Just drop the bag! The older Goblins were aiming at her eyes, but the littlest Goblin pelted the Human’s arms.

Then the scary Drake appeared, and they ran. The littlest Goblin fled, screaming, then hid in the grass and crawled away. Only after an hour did she get up and run back to her cave.

It was a bad day, and she was hungry. And—the littlest Goblin was sniveling already when she got back to their hidden cave—the two older Goblins would tell the Chieftain she had wasted time and that they hadn’t gotten food.

They were always mean to her. Always made her go with them gathering food or sharpening knives…or told her to stop counting birds and help gather food. They poked and prodded and pinched her ears more than most, because they had made her.

Somehow. Just like Goblins were born, the littlest Goblin had a vague idea of how it all worked, but those two were hers. Not that it meant they were nicer; they found her when she sat and tried to think or have fun and dragged her back.

Sometimes the two gave her food even when there wasn’t any to go around and showed her how things worked. Sometimes they got mad and poked and hit her if she wasn’t working, but it seemed to her like they always found her even when she was hiding, as if they knew her better than even the Chieftain.

She skulked into the tribe’s cave, wishing she had a Skill to make herself hide. She was waiting for the Chieftain to roar at her or just for a swat. But the tribe was busy eating.

Spiders. Cooked spiders in a big pot with water. It was…not good. Even for them. But it was what they had, and a few eggs made it taste like something. The littlest Goblin actually got a bowl and brightened up.

Maybe she wasn’t in trouble! She was sure she’d get only half her food because she was in so much trouble. She looked around for the two older Goblins and didn’t see them. Maybe they were still after the Human’s food?

She felt a pang in her stomach at the thought of being punished later. So she went back to her collection of sticks and rocks and thought of how much food that big place had to have. A city. The Chieftain sometimes said the other peoples had all kinds of good food, but behind those walls. They couldn’t even raid a caravan; there were too many dangerous Drakes or Gnolls or Humans, with steel armor and magic.

But what if you could get in there? Could you hide and steal some food and live there? Could they have a city like that?

The littlest Goblin was so caught up in the idea that she distracted herself for a long time, wondering what that Human had done to get an entire bag of food. Flour. She knew it from the older Goblins coveting the powdery stuff. You could make all kinds of things with it. Thick soup, crunchy bread, or just eat it raw and…

“Where?”

A growl brought the littlest Goblin out of her stupor. She jumped in fright and then saw the huge Chieftain’s face an inch from hers. She tried to run, and he grabbed her by one leg.

The time for punishment had come. The littlest Goblin dangled there as the Chieftain held her. She began to babble excuses—she meant to steal the Human’s food—and saw a quizzical look on his face.

“Where? Two?”

He shook her and gestured eloquently to the two empty pallets of dried grass. Then the littlest Goblin realized…he didn’t know about her sneaking off and wasting time. He wasn’t mad at her for that.

He wanted to know where the other two Goblins were. The littlest Goblin stared at the blank pallets and realized there had been a bit more soup, because they’d never come back with her.

Were they still out there, trying to steal the Human’s food? Maybe sneak in when she was asleep? She babbled an explanation and instantly got a bonk on the head.

Sniveling, she clutched at her head as the Chieftain roared at her. Go find them! And bring back food!

She was afraid of the dark, but more afraid of his wrath. So she wormed her way out of the cave and ran back to the inn. She searched around a few hills, hoping the other two would see her and scold her and she could bring them back to the Chieftain. If they had to steal from the Human…

Then the littlest Goblin smelled something on the air. Something wet, like iron. She froze in place, and a Drake stretched as he stood up.

“Got you bastards. You can’t run from Relc! Damn, I thought there were three of you? Whatever. If Erin doesn’t love this—now I need to find some wood. Damn. I should be having dinner!”

He chortled to himself and whirled a spear up and brought it down in one movement. So gracefully. The littlest Goblin didn’t understand what he was laughing about, but she smelled something familiar in the air. Something like metal. Something like…

She stared down at the two bodies in the grass. The Drake hummed as he drew his sword.

“Two coppers per ear…nah. Stick. Stick. You’ve gotta put them on sticks and—you know what? She can figure out how she wants to mount them.”

He gathered a pair of round objects up as the little Goblin stared down at him from her hiding place. She didn’t move. She didn’t breathe. She just looked at the two little bodies the Drake kicked down the hill. He walked off, humming under his breath in the night.



——



It was just before dawn when the little Goblin crawled into the tribe’s cave. The sleepy [Warrior] on duty growled at her—then noticed she was still alone. He nearly swatted her, but then smelled her. Then…he backed away and pointed to a slumbering mass.

The Chieftain woke up with a huge growl of anger. He looked at the littlest Goblin, raising a fist—

She didn’t think she said anything. She just sat there, mumbling down at the ground. And the Chieftain…

The grumpy Chieftain sat there and did not hit her. Though it was surely her fault. He picked up the littlest Goblin, tossed her into her sleeping pallet, and sat there.

Head lowered. Head bowed. The other Goblins in their tribe sat around him or worked mechanically, dully and silently.

But the Chieftain just stared at nothing. Stared at the smoky embers of the fire. Though the smoke stung his eyes—he did not weep. Goblins didn’t weep. Even the littlest Goblin. But the Chieftain stared down at the ground. Then he reached for something.

His axes. He stood slowly and asked one question of his tribe.

Where was that Human? The littlest Goblin didn’t know if he’d heard her wrong or if he was looking for the Drake. The Chieftain walked out of the cave.

She did not stop him. She just sat there. Wondering why today had been like this.



——



There wasn’t much light, so Erin just put the bag in the kitchen and lay down on the floor of the common room. The old linens she’d piled up to make a bed made her sneeze.

“I need to buy fresher pillows. And blankets. Or laundry detergent. When I have the money for it.”

Instead, she just used the cloth bag she’d bought as a pillow. Erin tried to get comfortable on the hardwood floor, but the very nature of it was giving her a…hard time. Besides, her shoulders ached. Her legs still hurt from the long walk. And if it were only that which hurt, she would already be asleep.

But instead Erin lay in the silence, listening to her heart beat. She wanted to say something, to think something, better. But there wasn’t anything. So she stared at the hazy shapes in the dark room. It took a long time before her eyes closed.

[Innkeeper Level 6!]

This time, she said nothing at all. She just cried for a bit before she fell asleep.





1.13


Erin woke up tired and bleary-eyed. She mechanically got up and remembered that she’d forgotten to gather any blue fruits. She looked at the bag full of food she’d dragged all the way to the inn. It was too much work to make pasta or bread, so she ate one of the sausages instead.

It was dried, too salty, and had lots of gristle. Even though Erin was starving, it was not the best thing she’d ever eaten. But she ate it anyways, chewing until she could swallow the greasy meal.

Dully, Erin wondered how long it would take for her teeth to rot or her gums to start bleeding. Not too long now.

It wasn’t a good day. But at least she had food. And if she didn’t have money, at least it was a new day.

With her stomach full, Erin felt a little better. Ready to face the day, at least. She made a mental list of what to do. Gather blue fruit first. Then she’d make some pasta, some bread, and then she’d figure out how to—

Knock. Knock.

Erin jolted upright. Someone was at the door. Was it Pisces? Well, it was just another headache for the day. She’d deal with him and—

Knockknockknockknockknockknock—

It wasn’t Pisces. Erin got up and went over to the door. Whoever was there was seriously excited. Too energetic at this time of day.

Erin yanked open the door.

“Who the hell—oh. It’s you.”

Relc grinned at Erin. He was holding something in one hand and his spear in the other.

“Good morning, Miss Human! It’s me, your favorite [Guardsman]! And how are you doing this fine morning?”

Erin blinked at him. It was far too early to have to stare at a giant lizard grinning at her with a mouth full of sharp teeth.

“Hey Erin, I’ve just taken care of your Goblin problem for you! Took all damn night, but that’s how much I wanted to apologize. See?”

Relc raised his spear triumphantly. A bit of something fell to the ground. Erin blinked and stared at it. Red.

She looked up and saw red blood dripping down the spear, running along Relc’s claw and onto the floor of her inn. Relc noticed that and pulled the spear back outside.

“Sorry about that, Miss Erin. You see, I was just disposing of the Goblins. Call it me making up for yesterday. But now that they’re gone, the others should leave you alone, especially once I set these up around the inn. Uh, do you have any sticks? I need some sticks or something.”

Relc lifted the objects in his left hand. Erin looked at them and saw two melons. Green melons? No.

Her eyes went back up to Relc’s grinning face. She stared at his bloody spear. He was talking, but the words were suddenly impossible to make out over the buzzing in Erin’s ears. She looked at his smile. She looked at the spear, still covered in drying red blood.

She looked down and saw the heads.

There were two of them in Relc’s claw. He’d grabbed them by their ears, and the force was already tearing the dead flesh. Each one’s eyes were still open, their lifeless expressions twisted in fear. Blood still dripped from one, down into the eye sockets of another.

Erin’s eyes wandered up and away from the heads. She stared out past Relc’s shoulder. It was a beautiful day outside. The sun was shining. The sky was blue. There wasn’t a cloud in the sky.

She looked down at the heads. They were still there. She looked up at Relc. He was still speaking, but stopped and looked at her in concern. He dropped the heads carelessly to the ground. Erin heard each one thump wetly on the floorboards of the inn.

Relc raised his clawed hand and reached out for her. The same one he’d held the heads with.

Erin threw up. She vomited up the sausages, choked, and threw up some more.

“——————!”

She felt a hand holding her, helping her upright. She pushed away at it, retched.

“——? ——. ————!”

Her head was spinning. Her ears were filled with a piercing, high-pitched sound.

“——————? ——?”

Erin looked around. The heads were still there. She threw up again, but there was nothing left. But still, she threw up bile, and then retched and retched until she couldn’t breathe or think.

“——!”

At last, Erin stopped. She felt strong hands lifting her up and felt herself being sat in a chair in the inn. Relc’s anxious face peered at her, and she felt his hand on her temple. She stared past him at the heads. They were lying on the floor of the inn. Their eyes were open. Blood had dried on their faces.

Erin took one deep breath. The world spun around her, and she heard nothing. Just static. She felt numb, like she was in surgery. But underneath that numbness was something terrible.

She looked at Relc. The Drake was fussing over her, trying to get her attention. She looked back at the heads. Then she began to scream. He reached for her, with concern in his eyes. A blank look of uncomprehending concern. Then…confusion. Frustration. Outrage.

The Drake looked down at the two heads on the ground and laughed. Through the ringing in her ears, she saw him kick one slightly with a toe, then recoil and clap his hands to his earholes. He stared at her. Then he shouted, threw up his hands, and turned. Came back, pointing a finger, and she—

She kept screaming, like that wordless howl in her ears.



——

Erin walked outside with the two Goblin heads in her arms. They weren’t cold. They weren’t warm, either. They were just fleshy. Heavy, fleshy. And dead.

She made sure not to drop them as she walked. She didn’t know where she was going, only that she had to find the bodies. She left the inn behind and began walking.

Relc was gone. He’d left sometime earlier.

She didn’t remember anything. Just flashes of her screaming at Relc to get out and hurling things. Screaming, crying, vomiting. And then the heads. Picking them up where they lay.

Erin walked with them in her arms. Everything was going by too quickly. One moment she was inside, the next she was out, looking around for…for…

The bodies.

The dead bodies were lying out in the open. Two corpses lay in a bed of trampled grass at the base of a hill. There was nothing—graceful about it. There was no dignity. Just flies, buzzing already. The Drake hadn’t done anything, just removed their heads and presented them to her like a trophy. Like an apology gift.

Erin stopped. She placed the two heads on the ground and walked over to the bodies. They told a story. She wasn’t good at forensics or anything like that, but she could still read what had happened. The blood was still wet on the ground.

Two died…there. At the top of the hill, running. Relc had probably cut the first one down in an instant. The other had run, but not far. He’d made it only a few steps before a spear had stabbed him from behind. Multiple times.

Erin looked at the bloody holes and felt nothing. No. That wasn’t right. She felt something. She felt so many emotions she couldn’t think. But they were buried deep within her heart. Right now, the numbness made her feel like she was in the middle of a silent world.

She placed the heads down next to the bodies. Which belonged to which? She looked at the cuts around each head. The…the cuts were too similar to match one to a body. She had to roll over the corpses to check the other side.

The sunlight kept their bodies warm. But they were still cold, and Erin’s hands were colder still. She flipped them over carefully and learned something else.

One was male, one was female. It was hard to tell from their faces, but they were distinctly a pair. The same who’d been throwing stones at her? Hadn’t there been three?

She didn’t know. Erin couldn’t think. The coldness grew worse. Erin began to shake. She crawled away to throw up, but found she couldn’t. So she went back and stared at the two bodies.

Their blood had long stopped flowing, but the grass was still red. They smelled, but only of dirt and blood. Not of death and rot. Not yet. But they were rotting. And in the sun, they would start to stink soon.

Erin knew this. She didn’t know it, but she’d read about it. They would rot and attract bugs. They were already.

A green fly landed on one of the bodies. Erin stared at it. An Acid Fly. It fanned its wings and began to crawl over the male Goblin’s body.

She swatted it. The bug exploded as her hand struck it, and the acid burned her palm. Erin scrubbed her hand in the grass and rubbed dirt on her skin. It was raw and red, but she ignored it as soon as most of the burning had stopped.

She needed to bury the bodies. Or they would rot.

Erin went inside the inn. She came out a few minutes later holding a long wooden spoon. It was probably used for stirring one of the big pots. It would do.

She began digging in the grass where the bodies lay. It was hard work. She had to tear out the grass before she could pry at the soil. And even then, the ground wasn’t easy to break up. But she persisted, and the few clumps of dirt grew as she dug deeper.

Slowly. Like making a sandcastle at the beach. Erin dug down, and the pile of dirt beside her grew. The hole was small, and every time she tried to scoop out more dirt, the walls caved in. But she kept digging. And the pile of dirt grew.

At some point, the wooden spoon broke. Erin used her hands. They began to bleed after a while. She kept digging.

At last, the hole was big enough. Erin picked up the first body and laid it in the grave. It fit. It more than fit. The hole she’d dug was big enough for a Human, which meant more than enough to fit both Goblins inside.

They were such small creatures. Erin vaguely wondered if she should dig one more grave.

She looked down at her bloody hands and broken nails. No.

She placed the second body in the grave, next to the first. Then came the heads. She placed each with their body. One, and then two.

As Erin picked up the second head, she heard a sound. She turned around and saw the Goblin standing in the long grass.

The Goblin was small and ragged. It was wearing a grey, stained loincloth and a few rags tied to its chest. It held a small knife. It stared at Erin and the head she held in her hands.

Erin paused. Her head was still filled with static, but her mouth tried to say something. Too late. The Goblin rushed at her, screaming wildly and slashing with the dagger.

Erin stepped back. She held the last Goblin’s head in one hand and waited until the other Goblin was close. She leapt sideways at the last moment, and the small Goblin missed her. It turned, still flailing its weapon.

She slapped the Goblin as hard as she could across the face. Her hand made a krack as she sent the Goblin tumbling to the ground, and it lost hold of the dagger it was carrying. It whimpered and fled from Erin, scrabbling after the weapon in the grass.

Erin was still staring at the Goblin as it seized the dagger and spun to face her. It was small. So small. Like a child. This one was a child. But it had murder in its eyes.

Erin’s mind was still hazy. But as the Goblin stared at her in tense silence, she realized what she wanted to say. It came to her when she saw the tears running from the Goblin’s red eyes.

“I don’t want to kill you.”

It rushed at her. Erin stepped forward and kicked the Goblin in the stomach. She’d done that to a boy as a child, only now she was kicking a child.

The Goblin vomited and then curled up into a little ball of pain. It tried to scrabble away from her, but it was in too much pain. Erin stared at the Goblin lying on the ground. She still held the head of the other Goblin in her hands.

The smart thing to do would be to kill it. She’d level up, and then she’d be rid of one less Goblin trying to kill her. If she let it live, it would get reinforcements. She’d never be safe so long as they were around. They were dangerous monsters. They’d kill her in her sleep and eat her or do worse if they could. It was survival of the fittest. She’d pay for letting it live. It was it or her. She had to—

The thoughts ran through Erin’s head as she looked at the twitching Goblin. It was small. She turned and placed the last head with the bodies.

When she turned around, the Goblin was gone.

Erin put the last head in the grave and stared at it. Then she slowly began to fill in the rest of the grave.

It was a long process. Erin packed the dirt in tightly and made a mound of the rest. She pushed on the dirt and made it as firm as possible. Then she stared at the uneven pile of upturned soil.

Erin placed her hands together and bowed her head. Then she let her hands fall away. There were no words for her to say. So she patted the last bit of dirt into place and sat down on the grass.

The sun was shining. The sky was a deep, deep blue. She didn’t cry. She just sat and rocked back and forth as she stared at the grave she’d dug.

Erin didn’t blink.

——

She looked up when she heard the horn.

It was no echoing bass rumble of a dread army’s herald. And neither was it a clarion call to victory sounded upon a dark battlefield. It just sounded like a horn. But it was loud. And it made her look up.

A Goblin stood upon a hill and stared down at her. He was nearly a head taller than Erin. So he was very big for a Goblin, but small, still. His body was muscled and wide, but taut, as of someone starved for enough food. His head was covered by a rusted helmet, and he wore mismatched bits of metal armor on his body.

Even without being told, Erin knew he was the leader of whatever Goblin tribe lived around here. And she also knew he was out for blood.

Hers.

She got up slowly. It wasn’t that she was terrified; it was that she was still in shock. She backed away slowly as the Goblin Chieftain pulled something from behind his back.

Her thoughts scrambled together. The inn? Or the city? She could probably outrun him, but the other Goblins were sure to be nearby. So where were they?

Erin was so busy looking out for other Goblins sneaking up on her that she only realized that the Chieftain was holding a bow when he fired the first shot.

An arrow struck the grass next to her feet and quivered in the packed soil. Erin turned and ran.

A second arrow missed her as well. So did the third. The fourth passed through the gap between her pumping arms.

Erin crested a small hill and immediately dove. She hit the grass face-first and slid painfully, and the fifth arrow missed the spot where her back had been. She got to her feet to run again and saw the Goblins.

They stood together, a silent wall of small bodies and red, staring eyes. They were staring at her. Not many all told. Forty? Less? If she had to guess, it was a small tribe. Smaller than the one she’d run away from that first day. But they were all armed. She waited for them to charge. She waited to die.

Not one of them moved. They watched her, that was all. They made no sound.

One of them was quivering. It was standing close to Erin and holding a knife. A small knife, held by a small hand. Erin recognized it.

It was the ragged Goblin from earlier. It stared at Erin, and she stared back. She could tell it wanted to cut her, to attack. But it didn’t.

A horn blew from the other side of the hill. Erin looked up. The Goblin Chieftain. He was the one who was orchestrating it all.

So. She stared back at the Goblin. It stared back, hatred and death in its eyes. Crimson eyes. They were unnatural, monstrous.

But still, they were too much like a Human’s.

“I didn’t kill them.”

Erin said it out loud. She didn’t expect it to understand, but the Goblin jerked in surprise. It looked at her, searching for the meaning in Erin’s words. The young woman looked into those sad, crimson eyes and saw the pupils lost and staring. She spoke, her voice rasping.

“I didn’t kill them, but it doesn’t matter.”

It looked into her eyes. Erin looked right back. Then she got up and ran.

——

They didn’t scream as they followed her. That was the scariest part. The Goblin tribe followed Erin swiftly, running as fast as they could to keep up, but they didn’t move to cut her off. They just followed.

Maybe they would have stopped her if she’d run for the city. But Erin ran for her inn and so they let her go. They weren’t here to kill her. Just to watch.

Without being told, Erin knew this was different. If it were just a fight or them trying to kill her, they would have swarmed her and ripped her to shreds in an instant. But this was a hunt.

And the Chieftain was the one hunting her.

Maybe he thought she was easy prey. He was right. And he probably could have guessed Erin wasn’t the one who killed the Goblins. It didn’t matter. It was blood for blood. The oldest of vengeances.

Erin thought all this as she hurtled through the door of her inn and blocked it with as many tables and chairs as she could. She knew it as she scrambled to find a kitchen knife, a frying pan—anything to defend herself. And she knew it when she sat in a chair and tasted death in the air.

She gave up on looking for a weapon. She sat and stared at the door. She heard the Chieftain’s horn call far away and then again as he drew closer slowly.

There was nowhere to run. And she couldn’t fight.

It had dawned on her as she was holding the sharp kitchen knife. She’d been trying to imagine her facing the armored Goblin, dodging blows, countering with a slash and then cutting—

No. It was impossible.

She was no warrior.

Erin sat in the wooden chair and felt it rub against her t-shirt. She felt her hands, slick with sweat. She tasted blood from running too hard and felt each breath tear a hole in her lungs. She was alive. She knew she wasn’t dreaming.

And she knew she was going to die.

“Checkmate.”

She sat at the table in the inn and stared at the door. It occurred to her, suddenly, that this was the first time she’d sat around and really had a chance to think. Because this was, in a sense, the first time she’d ever had when she wasn’t reacting blindly to events.

Maybe if she’d taken more time earlier, she would never have come to this point. If she’d thought ahead, maybe she’d have asked Klbkch and Relc how much food was worth. If she’d thought for a second, she would have known what Relc meant by taking care of the Goblins yesterday. Maybe then she’d have stopped Relc from killing the Goblins.

But she hadn’t. So she was here. But it was a terrible thing, waiting. So Erin sat and thought.

“I’ll think. I’ll think for once about it.”

Erin closed her eyes and tried to ignore the horn as it blew from far away. The Goblin Chieftain wasn’t moving fast. He was probably walking, saving his energy for when he got here. He was in no hurry.

She thought about Goblins. She thought about how they had leaders, and how it was the leader’s job to defend his people. Maybe he didn’t care about them. And maybe he wouldn’t take revenge if it were an adventurer or guardsman that killed them and then went back into a city with stone walls. But what about a stupid Human living by herself out in the middle of nowhere?

She thought about the small Goblin who’d attacked her. She thought about families, and thought about her parents. She thought about the Goblin Chieftain and his axes and armor.

She thought about what would happen to her when he caught her.

“Checkmate.”

Erin whispered it again. It sounded wrong, for some reason.

Checkmate. She’d heard that word too many times. But those had been games. This was real life. And she—she didn’t want to die.

But she was about to. That was why she was sitting in the inn. Erin heard the horn blaring again in the distance and knew that death was coming. So. Checkmate.

Was it? She had to ask. Erin whispered to herself a single question.

“Is it checkmate or just check?”

Erin stared at her hands. She hadn’t washed them. And she could still feel the clammy, lifeless head in her palms. She sat in the inn and stared down into the lifeless eyes of the two Goblin heads.

Horn call. She looked up at the door. The big Goblin was moving slowly. He wanted her to be afraid. To despair. To panic. There was nowhere to run. And if the only options were to fight and kill or run and die—

“If only it were dying.”

Erin whispered those words. She didn’t want to die. But better than anything else. So. Fight. And kill.

“I can’t do it.”

But she had to. Erin started shaking. There was no option. It was as clear a choice as she’d known. She could run or hide, and maybe, maybe she’d succeed. But if he caught her, she’d have to fight and win. And to win, she’d have to kill him. It was kill him or give up.

“Checkmate.”

Did she have a fever? Erin’s body flashed between burning heat and empty cold. She was shaking, but something inside of her was calm. So terribly calm.

Erin closed her eyes. She knew. But she didn’t want to. Her mouth was dry, but she forced herself to speak.

“Oh Father who art in Heaven…”

Her voice trailed off. She’d forgotten the rest long ago. And there was no God to listen to her. No merciful god would condone what she was about to do.

Erin opened her eyes. She stared at her hands and thought. Who was her enemy?

A Goblin. Not just any Goblin, but a Chieftain. A leader among their kind. Strong? Yes. Stronger than the others by far. But maybe not that much stronger than a normal Human man. If she were better at fighting…

But he had two axes. And a bow and arrow. And he had levels, whatever that meant. He was a better fighter. And what did Erin have?

She looked around. She had an inn. She had a kitchen, the few supplies she’d bought from the city. She had a common room full of tables and chairs, an upstairs with no way out save through the windows. She had kitchen knives, pots, pans, and an empty fireplace.

Erin closed her eyes and thought. She opened them a minute later and knew.

A horn blew somewhere in the distance. Erin listened to it and heard her heartbeat drowning out her thoughts. She knew what she had to do.

Erin got up. Her ears were ringing, but the world was silent. She felt like a dreamer, walking through a sleeping world. Even the blaring horn call sounded faint. In this moment, she felt like she had all the time in the world.

Slowly, Erin walked into the kitchen. She bent and fished around in the bag of food she’d bought. There it was. Was it enough? It would be enough.

Erin looked around and picked up the cast iron cooking pot. It was small, but it would do.

All the embers in the kitchen’s fireplace had long since turned to ash. Erin tossed in a few pieces of wood and slowly bent to strike sparks. It was slow. The horn kept calling, louder and louder. But her hands never wavered. She was still dreaming.

At last, the fire caught. Erin fed the small blaze, and it grew slowly. She added enough wood and set the pot above the fire. It would be hot soon enough. The fire was growing.

That was it. Erin filled the pot to the brim with the item she’d taken from the shopping bag. Then she put the lid on the pot. Slowly, she walked back into the main room of the inn. And sat down.

The horn blew. It was from right outside the inn. Erin heard the Goblin’s heavy footsteps now, the rattle of his metal armor. He paused before the door.

Thud.

The door rattled. The chairs and tables blocking it moved from the force of the impact. Erin stared at the door.

“It’s all just a game.”

She whispered to herself. She didn’t believe it.

Thud.

Another impact. This time, Erin heard cracking. The door wouldn’t last. She had seconds left.

Thud.

The fire was starting in the kitchen. It would take time to heat the pot. Was it enough? It would have to be enough.

Thud.

The entire door shook. Erin saw the wood splinter around the hinges. She waited. Death was in her bones. But whether it was hers, she didn’t know.

“Knight to D4. Pawn to E3.”

She didn’t want to die. But it might be better than what came next. Erin closed her eyes.

“I truly hate this world.”

The door crashed inwards, and the Goblin Chieftain stepped into the inn.



Rags by ArtsyNada





1.14


It was a beautiful morning. The sky was deep blue, and the sun shone down pleasantly. The inn felt so quiet, only one panting, ragged breath could be heard. It smelled like mold and faint dust. The floorboards, worn smooth by age, were slick with sweat from Erin’s palms. For a second, it seemed so peaceful.

The front door had a single locking bar of wood on it. The stout door and the band of metal around it splintered inwards as something struck it. Louder than she could imagine anything sounding. A crash of wood. It barely lasted seconds as a second foot broke the rotted, weakened section of the door. A second—and the Goblin Chieftain burst through the door, charging into the inn.

His eyes were burning red orbs, swiveling as he lifted a pair of axes. He wore ragged fur armor, rusted chainmail, and he stood a head over the young woman, who flinched as he howled. Erin stood up and grabbed a chair, arms shaking so badly she could barely hold it up.

The Chieftain grinned as he whirled and spotted her. He glanced at the chair Erin was holding and then dismissed it. His eyes lingered on Erin. Her face, her body—she didn’t like the way he was looking at her.

There was worse than malice there. Hatred. All the intent in the world. Hatred and a shaking rage. Erin hesitated. The chair was in her hands, and she’d raised it to throw. The Goblin Chieftain was looking at her with all these terrible things behind those eyes.

But why was water leaking down from the corners of his eyes? She spoke, the words escaping through the tightness in her chest, like a balloon filled to bursting with fear.

“I don’t want to hurt—”

The Goblin Chieftain roared and charged Erin. So fast. He put his shoulder down and hit her before she could even throw the chair. Erin barely felt the impact. She did feel it as she smashed through the table behind her. The chair she was holding flew out of her hands. She felt something in her body crack.

The Goblin lifted one of his axes. Erin lay on the ground gaping like a fish. He swung down. She rolled left, and the axe splintered the floorboards.

Away. Erin threw herself over another table and felt the other axe miss her by an inch. She picked up a chair and hurled it at the Goblin. He swatted it down with one armored hand contemptuously.

The table was between them. Erin tensed to dodge left or right, but the Chieftain grabbed the table and pushed. He rammed the heavy table into Erin’s midsection like a cannonball and then flipped the table.

A wall of wood came up and crashed down on her. Erin lay under the table, stunned, until she felt a thick hand grab her by one ankle and drag her out.

The Goblin pulled Erin from under the table and laughed at her. She lay on her back, eyes unfocused. He pulled aside his loincloth and pulled her towards him. Erin looked up at him and felt horror beating in her chest. He bent down to rip her clothes off—

She kicked up, right at his groin, with all her strength.

The Goblin caught her leg easily. He grinned at her again. With his other hand, he grabbed her other leg—

Erin sat up. Her legs were caught, but her hands weren’t. She punched the dangling target right between the Goblin’s legs.

His eyes bulged, and the huge Goblin roared and threw her away. Erin tumbled over and got to her feet. He was clutching at his private parts. She grabbed a chair, and this time, she didn’t hesitate.

Erin brought the chair down on the Goblin’s head with a heavy thump. Once. Twice. Then the Goblin punched at her.

She saw the punch coming and tried to block with the chair. The Goblin’s fist smashed through the wood and knocked Erin off her feet again. She got up and felt her mouth filling with blood. The world was swimming crazily to one side. She had to…

The Chieftain picked up his axe, cursing her in a language she didn’t know. Erin scrambled away. She was near the kitchen. The kitchen. She dashed inside and slammed the door shut.

There. The pot was sitting over the fire, and black smoke was coming out of the lid. Erin reached for it and felt the burning heat. Gloves. There was a rolling pin on the counter but no gloves or oven mitts. Where were—

The door exploded inwards with a terrific crash. Erin turned and saw the Goblin Chieftain. He lifted his hand again, a blurred gleam of metal—

She ducked. The axe whistled through the air and struck the wall. The second hand came up, and she swung the rolling pin. It cracked across his face.

His nose broke. Erin felt it break, but she lifted the rolling pin and hit him again. His other axe dropped from his hand, clattering to the floor. Erin didn’t reach for it; her burning arms just lifted the rolling pin higher and brought it down. Hit him. She had to hit him while he was stunned. Blood rolled down his face as he stared at her. Hit him. Hit—

Shk.

Something heavy hit Erin in the midriff and pushed her back. She stumbled back a bit and regained her footing. Something was weighing her down though. Something was…Erin looked down.

A knife was sticking out of her stomach, just above her waist. Her kitchen knife that she used to gut the fish. It was too far on the left side. It wasn’t symmetrical. And it was in her. In her.

Erin tugged at the knife. It was stuck. She pulled and felt—the skin around her stomach tried to pull itself out with the knife. She clenched her stomach muscles and pulled—

The knife came out with another terrible tearing of flesh. Erin stared at the blood on the blade. She dropped it, and the knife fell with a heavy thump to the ground. It should have clattered.

Blood. It was running from her stomach. Erin held her hand over the wound and tried to make it stop. But she was bleeding now, faster and faster. And the Goblin Chieftain was getting up.

“————!”

Erin wasn’t making any words. It was just a half-choked scream. She stumbled towards the fireplace, pain tearing up her insides with each step.

Smoke billowed from the pot. The contents boiled and spat at her. There was no time for gloves. She grabbed the pot by the handles.

The metal burned her. Erin screamed as her hands blistered and the skin burned away. The pain was unbearable. But she held the pot and turned.

The Chieftain was on his feet. He snarled at her through his broken nose and bloody face. He had the kitchen knife in his hands. He lunged at her.

Erin tossed the contents of the pot at the Goblin Chieftain. The boiling oil splashed the Goblin’s face and ran down his chest.

He screamed. The Chieftain dropped the kitchen knife and screamed so loud Erin went deaf. She dropped the cooking pot and stumbled away from him.

She held her shaking hands out. Already, her skin was burnt black and white in places. Large blisters were forming out of her ruined skin. But it was only half. Only half of the pain in the world.

The Goblin Chieftain clawed at his face and sank to the floor. He was screaming still, but the sound he made was so very small. She heard him choking. Screaming quietly in agony. She understood. There wasn’t enough sound in the world to convey it all, and the screaming would make the pain worse. But still, he had to scream, so he did it quietly.

Erin sat on the ground and stared at him. He lay on the floor, steam rising from a face running with oil and dripping skin. Erin was bleeding. The wound in her stomach bled without stopping. But her hands—

They weren’t the same. And the agony of both was too much to bear. So Erin forgot the pain. She stared at the Chieftain as he lay on the floor. He was smoking.

Parts of his face were sloughing off. The boiling oil had…melted him. He was still alive. But he was dying.

Erin heard him breathing. Short, sharp bursts and whimpered pain. He lay on the ground and did not move. The fight was over. She’d won.

Slowly, Erin began to cry.



——



The girl sat in the ruined kitchen with the Goblin. Both were silent. One was dying. The other, dead inside.

A haze of burned smoke filled the room. The smell of burnt flesh filled the air. Oil dripped off the counter, ran down across the floor and seeped into the cracks with the blood and flesh.

Eventually, the girl moved. Slowly, so slowly, she stood. Staggering, clutching at the hole in her stomach, she walked over to a large cloth bag filled with food. She picked up a kitchen knife lying on the ground.

With the knife, she began slicing the cloth bag apart. The pain as she tightened the bandages over her stomach nearly made her faint. Her fingers and palms bled, and the world grew black. But she gripped the bandages tightly and tied a knot.

Then she looked behind her.

A dark shape lay on the floor, still dying. Steam rose from what remained of a face. The odor of cooked meat hung heavy in the air, wrongly appetizing. A face of ruined green flesh charred black stared up at her. What remained of lips moved as a chest rose in short, labored breaths.

The girl still had the knife. She almost raised it, almost ran—and then she went to sit down next to the body. The oil was still hot enough to scald, but she barely felt it. She sat with the Goblin. He stared back, and she looked at what remained of his eyes. Hollow pits. Not enough of a face left to do anything but breathe.

The oil dripping down his face still looked like tears. Why was he crying?

The lips moved. Did he speak? Only she knew.

A dark shape lay on the floor. The girl sat with it and waited. In time, the breathing stopped.

Through the narrow window in the kitchen, the sun shone down amidst blue skies, a ray of light into the kitchen, filtering through smoke. It wasn’t even midday yet, and a cool breath blew down from the mountains, stirring across the inn and rattling some of the shutters.

But for that, the world was so silent.

The girl sat back against the counter and closed her eyes. Her blood dripped to the floor along with her tears.



[Innkeeper Level 9!]

[Skill – Bar Fighting obtained!]

[Skill – Unerring Throw obtained!]





1.15


His name was Klbkch. It was what the members of other species called him, at least. His true name was longer and hard to express with lips. So he thought of himself as Klbkch or sometimes ‘Klb’. It was important to have an easy, affable nickname.

At the moment, Klbkch was off-duty. He had signed out of the roster and added Relc’s name to the log as well. His partner never signed out, or if he did, he did it improperly. Therefore, Klbkch had long ago made it a practice to do it for Relc. It was important to do things properly.

Propriety had gotten him this far. Propriety, an adherence to all the rules of Liscor, spoken and unspoken, and effort. A mountain of it.

Klbkch nodded to the desk sergeant on the way out. She barely looked up, but growled a goodbye.

“Thanks for dealing with those drunks, Klbkch. I owe you one.”

“Not at all, Senior Guardswoman Beilmark.”

And for that, she furnished him with a harried, grateful smile of a woman who had a family to get back to. These were salient details that Klbkch remembered, because they endeared him to people.

There was a time, not long ago, that he could remember when no one spoke to him when he became a [Guardsman]. When every eye was hostile or cautious.

Ten years ago seemed like both an age and a short time. Ten years…he wondered how much longer he’d do this. Another decade? A century?

If it were that long, he wondered if he would ever learn how to smile like they did. Not with their lips, but genuinely.

It didn’t matter. The cause was all. He should have gone straight back home, down, to the one street in Liscor where the ground opened up and no one but his kind went. Down, home to the Hive.

But instead, for once, Klbkch walked to the eastern gates. He passed by the [Guards], who straightened guiltily and then looked relieved that he was off-duty. He waved at the ones on the walls and then began to walk.

Klbkch walked through the dark grassland outside of the city, up rolling hills, head swiveling for monsters, but with little fear. He moved fast, in a continual stride, for he did not have all the time in the world. Once he was done here, he needed to conduct his work below, in his Hive. Six hours…and then he might sleep for four and get back to work. Depending on how long he took right now, he might sleep for two hours. Or one.

He was headed to the inn where a young Human female currently resided. Klbkch wondered why he was wasting his time doing this. It was not part of his duties as a guardsman. Relc had refused to go, citing some complaint he’d had with Erin, an argument.

Yet Klbkch went. He told himself he was visiting her to improve his relationship with her. It was important to maintain good relationships with other species. But she was hardly important; Humans were not well-liked in Liscor, and she had no capital, social or economic. So why?

Maybe because she had never mentioned The Black Tide. She had never met an Antinium and when she smiled, there was no edge behind it. She was guileless, possibly naive. He was only going to check in on her and have a drink.

Klbkch knew something was wrong when he saw the smoke in the distance. It wasn’t visible from Liscor’s walls, but he saw it once he got within a few miles of the inn, a thin line of smoke coming out one window. Not from the chimney. And the door of the inn wasn’t closed either, but ajar.

Even in his ruined form, his eyes had been made to spot details at a distance, and Klbkch noted how the door hung in pieces.

Instantly, Klbkch drew the two swords at his waist. He had two more hands free, but he left them unarmed for now.

Swords at the ready, Klbkch charged up the slight incline towards the inn. He moved extremely quickly—his long legs combined with his levels in the [Guardsman] class that gave him [Enhanced Movement], which turned the several miles into a blur behind him.

The inn was leaking black smoke out of the back windows. Klbkch knew they were connected to the kitchen. The door smashed in, and as Klbkch approached, he saw a crowd of monsters clustering around the windows.

Goblins.

The instant they saw him running at them, they turned and fled, running for the base of the mountains. Klbkch debated cutting them down for a second—then he turned to the interior. If she was anywhere—

Klbkch stopped outside of the inn and flattened himself against one wall next to the entrance. He drew his two daggers with his lower set of hands and braced himself, listening. He did not underestimate or overestimate his chances.

As a [Guardsman], he was the fourth in order of levels in the entire city of Liscor. His other talents put him in the top three fighters in the entire Watch day by day. Once, it wouldn’t have been a competition. He was capable of handling most Goblin varieties, but if he was outnumbered, he would retreat.

His goal was to assess the whereabouts and well-being of Erin Solstice and, if possible, escape with her. If not, his job was to witness her fate and the forces currently occupying the inn.

For some reason, Erin Solstice mattered to Klbkch more than assessing the threat at the moment. He dismissed that thought instantly and questioned his judgment. His survival outweighed a single Human’s. He should fall back and summon a Watch patrol.

But. She could be inside, wounded or dying at the hands of the Goblins at this moment. Klbkch was well-aware of their tendency to rape and assault females of any humanoid race. He heard nothing.

His instincts told him to wait, that it was too late. Klbkch ignored them. His mind was telling him to act. He charged through the door, ready for anything.

The common room of the inn was a mess of broken tables and chairs. Klbkch swept the room. Empty. The door to the kitchen was broken in. He raced into the kitchen. And stopped.

Two figures lay on the ground. One was a Goblin. Not just any Goblin; a Chieftain. A Hobgoblin. A true danger and threat. The other was a Human girl. Both were lying still.

The air smelled of smoke and oil. Burnt flesh.

Klbkch assessed the situation. The Goblin Chieftain was a great threat. He could be killed if necessary, but—he was already dead. Dead. A threat capable of wiping out low-level parties of adventurers by himself had been killed by…a girl?

How? But that didn’t matter. He looked at Erin Solstice. Then he heard the rasping sound.

The young woman lay against a kitchen counter. She held a bandage to her stomach with her arm. Her hands were blistered and blackened. Tears had painted clear lines through the soot on her face. Red-black blood had dried around the bandage on her stomach. Her eyes barely fluttered as he knelt beside her.

She was barely breathing.

For once in his long life, Klbkch of the Free Antinium had no idea what to say.

“Ah. Miss Solstice?”



——



The pain had left after a while. Erin floated in a dark, warm sea by herself. She was falling asleep. Or maybe she was asleep and just dreaming.

Erin slowly sank into slumber as the light of the world faded away. It was a wonderful feeling as she gave up her burdens and closed her eyes. Sleep. It had been so long since she’d slept properly.

But there was something bothering her. Something…was making a sound? Yes, a sound. Erin squeezed her eyes shut, but now she was being shaken. She didn’t want to wake up. But maybe if she did, she could go back to sleep. She listened.

“Miss Solstice? Miss Solstice, you must drink.”

She was waking up. And with the waking came pain. Erin groaned, or tried to. Her throat was terribly dry. She hurt. She hurt so much that she couldn’t bear the pain. She didn’t know what to do. She wanted to go back to sleep, but the voice was insistent.

“Drink.”

Something was at her lips. Cool glass and a wet feeling. Erin felt cool liquid pressing forwards and licked instinctively.

At once, something wonderful began happening. Just as her tongue tasted bitter foulness and she gagged, the pain went away. For a second.

Then it was back. Desperately, Erin opened her mouth and tasted the disgusting, wonderful drink again. It was bitter and had some terrible taste like a mix of the worst medications combined with what she thought bugs might taste like. Yet with each gulp, the pain lessened, and the burning agony in her stomach fled, piece by piece. The terrible numbness in her hands vanished, replaced by pain, tingling, and then a sense of incredible normality.

Erin opened her eyes and sat up. Energy flooded back into her body, and the darkness of death receded. She looked up and saw a giant insectoid face staring down at her.

“Guh.”

Erin choked on the last mouthful of the healing potion. Klbkch held her steady as she gulped it down and swallowed. His mandibles clacked as he spoke, and a tiny ‘mouth,’ more like an opening between the mandibles, opened and closed, producing the staccato voice. Staccato, but intent, worried.

“Miss Solstice. Are you well?”

“I—I’m alive.”

Erin stammered. She looked at Klbkch. He was holding the empty potion bottle in his hand. He had saved her. Brought her back from death. She wanted to thank him. She didn’t have the words, but she wanted to thank him for saving her. She opened her mouth and then saw the body lying on the floor.

The Goblin Chieftain. Her eyes fell on his ruined face, on his motionless body. Erin paused and ignored Klbkch’s repeated questions. For a while, she just stared at the body until Klbkch dragged it out of the kitchen. When he returned and she looked back into his face, she’d completely forgotten what she wanted to say.



——



“You are not from here, are you, Miss Solstice?”

That was the first thing Klbkch said to her after he’d made sure she was well.

Erin lay against the kitchen cupboards, her shirt lifted up as she inspected her stomach. It was perfectly healed, although the bandage was still there. She would have felt uneasy about undressing in front of Klbkch but—she wasn’t. It was probably because he was an insect.

She looked up in surprise. Klbkch was staring at her. She didn’t know what to say. He, however, did.

“I do not mean this country or even this continent. You are not from here, are you?”

Klbkch squatted next to her. His back-shell actually rested on the ground, making it an easy position for him. He was incapable of lying on his back, and she wondered how he slept. Erin shook her head slowly.

“No. I’m not.”

“I thought as much.”

Erin smiled bloodlessly. She felt so tired, but sleep was as impossible as anything else, so she talked. She gazed at the insect-man’s face, and he was the most reassuring, normal thing this day. She tried to shrug and gave up halfway.

“Was it obvious?”

“Say rather that it has become obvious. It is an unbelievable statement, but it is the only one I can come to.”

Erin hesitated and then nodded. Klbkch nodded in agreement.

“How’d you figure it out?”

He raised a hand and began to tick off points on his fingers.

“Many clues lead me to this conclusion. Your curiosity about levels and classes, your mysterious arrival, and this ‘Michigan,’ which is no nation recorded in any book or map. But most of all, it was this last moment. No Human would weep for a Goblin.”

Erin brushed at her face. Her tears were long dried but—

“Really? No one? What about Drakes?”

“No Human. No Drake or Gnoll, Selphid, Dullahan, Beastkin, or any creature from this world would.”

“What about your people?”

Klbkch didn’t blink. He couldn’t. But he did twitch. His antennae, above his head, moved erratically then settled down.

“The Antinium? We do not weep.”

“Oh. I see.”

Erin felt Klbkch’s hands moving at her side. He was peeling away the sticky bandage.

“Ow. What was—”

“Worry not. The healing potion worked. The bandage has stuck to your skin.”

“Oh—ow! Good to know.”

“You will be weak for at least a day afterwards. However, you will recover in full. You are lucky; there was no infection that the healing potion could have exacerbated.”

Erin yelped as a bit of skin came off with the rest of the bandage.

“Good. Thank you. So. What now? Did you—what did you do with the body?”

“I buried it outside. Far from the inn, in pieces, to prevent chance reanimation. Worry not.”

“…Thank you. Um. Thank you.”

Klbkch nodded. He quickly and deftly folded the dirty bandage and added it to the fire he’d lit. It smelled terribly, but that was just one burned odor among many in the kitchen at the moment.

Then the ant man went to check on the small pot he’d set over the stove. It was filled with boiling water, not oil. After a minute, he dipped another piece of cloth into the pot and brought it over to Erin. She accepted it wordlessly and used it to sponge off dried dirt, blood, and other stains from her skin.

“I had made the observation that you were not from this world, Miss Solstice.”

“Yeah. I changed the subject. Humans do that when they don’t want to talk about something.”

She scrubbed violently at her stomach. The towel was quite hot, but the heat was welcome. She felt cold. Klbkch bowed his head as he watched her.

“Then you have a commonality with many non-Antinium species. My apologies. I should not be asking such questions now. You are still in shock.”

Erin looked up.

“I’m not in shock.”

“You are still suffering from this encounter. Your mental state is unbalanced.”

“I’m not in shock. I’m really not. I’m just—tired.”

Klbkch bowed his head again.

“As you say.”

“I’m okay. Really. I just—I’m from somewhere else. Another world. This place is different. I just—I just don’t want to talk about it right now. It’s been a bad day.”

“Of course. Forgive my rudeness. But if I may, I would like to suggest a course of action.”

“Um. Okay?”

“I have disposed of the Goblin Chieftain’s body. However, there are many Goblins still hiding nearby. If you feel safe here, I will dispose of as many as I can. If not, I will escort you to the city and then return with reinforcements to—”

“No.”

Erin cut Klbkch off. She sensed the Antinium’s surprise.

“No? If you feel unable to travel, I can—”

“No. No killing Goblins.”

He paused. She could sense him looking at her even though his multifaceted eyes had no pupils. Klbkch seemed baffled, and his mandibles opened and closed several times, like someone opening and closing their mouth.

“May I ask why not?”

“It’s wrong.”

“Many would argue otherwise, Miss Solstice. Goblins are considered monsters and bandits for the purposes of determining crime under Liscorian law. They are killers who prey on the weak. You have nearly died at the hands of one.”

Erin nodded.

“They’re vicious, evil little monsters. And they’d probably eat me if they could.”

“Undoubtedly.”

“And they’re murderers.”

“This is true. Over a quarter of the deaths of travellers on the roads around Liscor are due to Goblin attacks. They are murderers.”

“Yeah.”

Erin mumbled. She stared at her hands. Her clean, whole hands.

“They’re murderers. And so am I. Don’t kill them.”

Silence followed her last remark. Erin stared at her hands. At last, Klbkch’s staccato voice sounded next to her ear.

“I do not understand your reasoning. But I will accede to your request. Know that I will defend myself with lethal force if attacked, however.”

“That’s fine. They’re gone, anyways. They ran off when they heard him screaming.”

“Very well then.”

Klbkch fell silent. Erin stared at the spot where the body had lain. She felt lightheaded. At some point, she felt she should have clung to Klbkch and started crying. Or was that too stereotypical? Was it a normal reaction? But instead, she just felt a bit—empty.

“One more thing.”

“Is there something you wish to ask of me, Miss Solstice?”

Erin nodded vaguely. She pointed at her chest. It was still bare. Oops. She pulled her shirt down. Good thing her bra was still on.

“After I killed the Goblin—I gained a new skill. Two, actually. [Bar Fighting] and [Unerring Throw].”

“They are worthy skills. Unusual for the [Innkeeper] class, but not unheard of.”

“Really? Why’d I get them? And aren’t skills like…set?”

“Another sign you do not belong to this world, Miss Solstice.”

Erin looked up with a frown. Klbkch waved one hand.

“I mean no offense. It is simply that all beings know how classes and skills work.”

“Well then, explain it to me.”

Klbkch was silent for a few seconds.

“To put it simply, classes are general ways of life that individuals take. In life, one might choose to become a [Butcher], or perhaps a [Musician]. It is simply a matter of fulfilling the requirements. Often, they are known, but there are exceptions. One cannot simply take [Ruler]-type classes for instance.”

“Right, you’ve got to be born into it.”

“That is indeed one of the ways to learn such a class. But in any case, classes increase one’s proficiency at their role with each new level. And with that increase in ability, Skills may be learnt. But there is no one set of Skills for a class.”

“Really?”

“Indeed not. Two individuals taking the [Soldier] class, for instance, may learn different Skills at the same level. It is a matter of need and inclination which allows individuals to learn skills. For instance, while Relc is a higher-level warrior than I, he is not of a higher level in the actual [Guardsman] class and thus does not possess the [Detect Guilt] skill.”

“Okay.”

Klbkch looked at Erin. She shrugged.

“Do you understand?”

“Not really. Sort of. I guess? But why are there levels in the first place?”

“It is the way of the world. All races that think are given the ability to level and take classes.”

“By who?”

Erin sighed and slapped her face lightly.

“Or whom. Who did it? And why?”

“It is not known. But our oldest texts tell us of this truth.”

Klbkch recited in his inflectionless voice:

“All those that Think—Feel. From Feeling do we Act. It is in Action that we Level. All those who Think have a Class. And it is in that Class which we find destiny.”

Erin snorted. Then she realized he was being serious.

“Did someone teach you that?”

Klbkch nodded gravely.

“It is part of the lessons any child learns. The exact wording comes from a book: The Book of Levels, which was originally written nearly twenty thousand years ago. Copies of this text are among the few mainstream works that have been faithfully reproduced into this age. I have studied it extensively upon coming to this continent to understand the mentality of the peoples here, as well as levels and classes in general.”

“But why is that how things work?”

Erin was getting frustrated. Klbkch’s calm, matter-of-fact tone wasn’t helping matters either. This time, his pause took longer, and she thought he sounded vaguely exasperated.

“It is simply how we live our life. This is a universal truth throughout the world. Is yours not the same?”

Erin scowled at him.

“No, it’s not. We don’t have levels, and we don’t learn Skills like we’re in a video game. We don’t have classes except for ones in school, and we don’t need levels to learn things.”

“Learning skills is not merely a matter of levels. Classes and leveling are simply the basis of our lives so we may grow faster from what we do. It is a fact of life.”

“That’s stupid.”

He looked at her in surprise.

“I beg your pardon?”

“Your leveling is stupid. Your skills are stupid. I hate your world’s classes, I hate your city, and I hate you.”

She shouted those last words at Klbkch and then buried her face in her hands. After a while, she felt him place a comforting hand on her shoulder. It was cold, smooth exoskeleton. But it was still comforting.

“…I didn’t mean that.”

“I took no offense, Miss Solstice. I realize you have gone through a traumatic event. The fault lies with me for not being more receptive to your distress. I should have provided more comfort and companionship. In that, my partner Relc is occasionally more effective than I.”

“You’re fine.”

Erin mumbled that through her tears. She’d begun crying. Not bad crying or loud crying, but her eyes were suddenly filled with tears.

“I’m just having a bad—I mean, it’s been—I hate this world. But I didn’t mean that last bit about you. You’re okay. Everyone else can go to hell.”

“I see. It is a long way to Rhir. Here. Please accept this.”

Klbkch handed Erin another piece of cloth. She blew her nose and sniffed loudly.

“I’d like to be alone now.”

Klbkch hesitated.

“I will remain here with your permission. It would be unwise to—”

She cut him off.

“I’ll be fine.”

“Respectfully, I must disagree. Though the Goblin Chieftain is dead, his tribe may seek vengeance.”

“They won’t.”

“May I ask how you know?”

“I just know. Please. I’d really like to be left alone.”

Again, he hesitated, but at last, Klbkch stood up. He walked over to the door of the kitchen. There he turned.

“One last question, Miss Solstice, if I may? What caused the Goblin Chieftain to attack you in the first place? It is rare that the tribal leader takes any aggressive action if unprovoked.”

Erin closed her eyes. She felt so tired. And the events of…was it this morning? They felt so long ago.

“Relc. He killed two Goblins and beheaded them.”

Klbkch paused. Out of the corner of her eye, Erin saw him close one of his four hands. Then he bowed deeply.

“Allow me to apologize on both our behalves. Words cannot express my shame.”

She nodded shortly.

“It’s okay.”

The lie said, she waited for Klbkch to leave. When he didn’t leave after a few minutes, she looked directly at him.

“I’m going to sleep.”

He nodded.

“Well then. Take care, Miss Solstice.”

The Antinium didn’t close the door since the door was broken. But he did prop it against the hole in the wall with two chairs. That done, the ant man disappeared into the grasslands, quickly becoming a silhouette against the orange sky.

Erin put her head against the wall. Her eyes were burning, and her body felt slow and fuzzy after the healing potion. At last, he was gone. It wasn’t that she didn’t want his company. In fact, she wanted to hold him or maybe him to hold her. But she wanted to sleep now. To forget.

But she couldn’t sleep.

She wanted to sleep badly. Her mind was crying out for her to close her eyes. But when she did, she saw things. So she kept them open.

She smelled the burned oil and burning flesh still. Klbkch had opened a window, and an evening breeze was blowing through the kitchen. But she still smelled death. She still saw it in the Goblin Chieftain’s eyes. He was looking right at her—

Thump.

Erin smacked her head against the wall behind her. It hurt. She did it again.

Thump. Thump.

The image of the dead Goblin’s eyes disappeared for a second. But the instant she thought about them, they were back, staring into her soul.

Thump.

Erin bumped her head again. The pain made the vision fade briefly. It also made her head swim. Still, if she had to choose between that and the Goblin’s—

Thump. Thump. Thump.

She wanted to sleep, but couldn’t. And the night was coming. With it came uncertainty, fear, but worst of all was that one thing she couldn’t escape.

Memory.

Thump.



——



Klbkch walked through Liscor’s eastern gates and nodded at the Drake on duty. He received no reply from the weary Drake, but made no comment. Politeness was important. Fostering strong ties and goodwill towards the Antinium within the city was important.

What was also important was turning in a bounty. Klbkch had a large cloth bag he’d fashioned out of what remained of Erin Solstice’s shopping bag, and it was weighing down his left side by quite a bit. But the bag was necessary, and besides, it kept the smell and sight from disturbing the other civilians he passed.

Yes, the bounty. He would fill it out tonight at the Adventurer’s Guild. But before that, he had another mission that took higher precedence.

Klbkch walked through the streets until he came to a bar he knew was frequented by many Drake customers. It was a loud, raucous joint filled with many reptilian bodies, but they made room for him. Not out of respect for his occupation—he was off-duty—but out of a desire not to touch him.

The lone Antinium walked through the crowd of Drakes until he heard his name being loudly called and the smash of a tankard being hurled his way.

“Oi, Klb! You won’t believe what that stupid Human did this time.”

Klbkch approached Relc from across the bar. The Drake waved him over to a seat and turned unsteadily. He was with a gaggle or, as the proper term was, cluster of Drakes. Some were male; the majority were female. Or not. Gender was still difficult for Klbkch to ascertain at the best of times.

“Good thing you’re here. Let me tell you, that Erin girl? Stupidest Human I’ve ever met. Do you know what she did this morning?”

Relc didn’t wait for a response, but launched into his story. By the looks on the others’ faces, this was not his first retelling. Klbkch ignored Relc and ignored the seat the Drake was trying to shove him into. He was clearly inebriated.

Klbkch placed one of his hands on Relc’s shoulders to steady him. Proper posture was critical. Relc grinned at him.

“Hey, what’s gotten into you, Klb? Decided to take me up on a night out for once? Pull up a seat.”

He turned his head as Klbkch put the other hand on Relc’s other shoulder, and the Drake gave him a quizzical glance. Then Klbkch hit Relc with his other two hands as hard as he could.

The Drake saw the punches coming, but he was too drunk to dodge properly, and Klbkch’s hands held him in place. He smacked into the floor hard as both punches caught him in the jaw and stomach at the same time.

For a moment, all was stunned silence. Then Klbkch heard a loud hiss that turned into a screeching bellow of rage.

Relc surged to his feet with a roar and caught Klbkch’s foot while coming up. The blow smashed him in the jaw again and this time stunned him for a few seconds. Klbkch nodded to himself. Proper posture was critical for a good strike. Relc was a fine warrior, but he was drunk, and this was a surprise attack.

Relc lay at Klbkch’s feet. He got back up, received two more punches again, and decided to lie down. Klbkch nodded to himself and walked away from his partner.

The atmosphere in the room had turned hostile. Klbkch glanced around but decided not to draw his daggers. The other male Drakes were glowering and clenching their clawed hands, but experience told him that they would not attack unless he made further provocations.

Klbkch estimated the public perception towards Antinium within the city had lowered a degree from his actions, regardless of the reasons. Antipathy within the City Guard might also be substantial, at least in the short term.

It was a costly consequence, but it struck Klbkch as fitting. He nodded to the silent bar of onlookers.

“Good night to you. Please accept my apologies for the inconvenience. I shall take my leave.”

Klbkch turned and walked out of the bar. He heard the hubbub start as soon as he’d left, mixed in with Relc’s indignant and distinctive voice. Oh yes. There would be consequences tomorrow.

For some reason, that didn’t bother Klbkch. Instead, he wondered what Humans were like. Were they anything like Drakes? He had only seen them on the other side of a battlefield or rare visitors to Liscor. They had not been like Erin.

But the night was deepening, and he still had a bounty to turn in. The proper forms needed to be filled out, and an eyewitness account delivered. Things had to be done properly or not at all.

Klbkch walked into the night. There was a bounty to fill out and research on Humans to be done. But most importantly, his Queen must know of a Human named Erin Solstice. She was important. She was…unique.



——



The body was gone. But Erin still saw his face. She still smelled burning flesh, still felt her hands burn. She still heard him breathing.

She didn’t sleep. And as the night fell into day, she stared up at the dark ceiling.

Listening to the breathing.





1.16


Erin sat in a chair and stared outside. It was a lovely day. A warm breeze floated through the window, warming all it touched.

Except for her. She felt cold. Cold and empty.

Shadows passed before her. They had names. Klbkch, Relc, even Pisces. But they weren’t important. The dead were far worse.

Erin held a Goblin’s head in her hands. She stared into its blank eyes and felt her hands burning. She sat next to a dying Goblin and listened to him breathing.

The sun was bright. At some point, the night had turned to day. But Erin still felt as if it were night. In the inn, the shadows were long and kept her in darkness. It was only fitting.

The world felt hollow. Everything echoed, and the surroundings blurred gently around Erin as she sat. She wasn’t doing anything in particular. She was just existing. Existing and not fitting in.

A little ghost in a little inn in a little world. That’s what she felt like.

It was cold. Not physically; at some point, someone had put a blanket on her and left some tea that had grown chilly, untouched. Had that been Pisces? Surely not.

Erin looked up. Relc was in the inn. Was it the first time she’d seen him today? Probably. He was yelling about Goblins and apologizing. Klbkch was there. Silent. His brown carapace blended in with the chairs. Maybe he’d been here all day. Erin couldn’t remember.

“—kill all of the little bastards!”

Relc was shouting. He grabbed his spear. Erin’s hand moved.

“Whoa!”

Relc’s head jerked back as a kitchen knife flashed past his face. The blade thudded into a wall and lodged in the wood.

Klbkch and Relc stared at Erin. She stared at her hand silently. Oh. Right. A skill. [Unerring Throw]. Had she talked to Klbkch about it yesterday? Or was she going to talk to him in the future about it?

She looked up at Relc.

“Leave them alone.”

Then Erin went back to staring at her hands. After a while, Relc left. Klbkch left too, or maybe Erin just stopped seeing him.

“This is my inn. I make the rules here. And if you don’t like my rules, get out.”

Did she say that to Relc or the empty inn? Maybe she screamed it. Erin couldn’t remember. Time wasn’t the same anymore. She just stared at her hands and felt her flesh burning. She saw the dead Goblin lying on the floor, screaming quietly.

It was all she saw.

Pisces came later. He ran in with sparks shooting from his fingertips. He was like Relc. But he cared. He wanted to kill Goblins too, or maybe just scare them away. Place a curse on them. It didn’t matter.

Erin stared at him until he flinched and looked away. She gave him one of the dried sausages. She told him if he killed a Goblin, then she’d kill him.

He took the sausage and turned white when she told him she’d kill him. Then he put the blanket over her and left.

Erin sat in the inn and felt the walls closing in. She couldn’t breathe in there. So she went outside.

The sun was too beautiful, and the sky was too bright. Erin went back inside and felt the darkness crawling up her spine. The shadows were moving. The wind sounded like whispers.

She heard breathing. It was hers.

It was dark. At some point, the sun went down. That was the worst time. Erin saw dead things lying in the shadows. The bodies of Goblins lay underneath tables; their heads sat in the moonlight filtering in from the windows.

Erin shut her eyes. But they followed her inside her head. They dug around her mind and pulled out memories. Then they tore apart her heart. Piece by piece, until morning came.



——



Klbkch came the next day. Relc was missing. He sat with her a while and asked her more questions. Was she well? Did she want anything? Was she hungry?

Erin answered until it was too much work. Then she just sat and waited for him to leave. Eventually, he did.

The sunlight grew brighter until the shadows retreated. Erin sat in her chair and rocked back and forth occasionally. She got up when she heard the thumping.

Someone was at the door. Klbkch had made sure it was fixed, by nailing boards into place until it was secure. Erin hesitated a moment before she opened it.

A giant rock stood in front of her inn. A long claw reached for her. The rock crab clicked and swiped at her, snapping at her waist.

Erin opened her mouth and screamed. The rock crab tried to grab her head with one claw. She smashed it with a chair and kept screaming. The rock crab jerked back its claw and retreated. She howled at it. She screamed and screamed until her breath was gone. Then she screamed some more.

The crab retreated in agony, trying to shield its ear holes with its claws. It scuttled away as fast as it could. Miles away, the pterodactyl birds took flight in panic.

Erin screamed and screamed until her voice was gone. She wiped the tears off her face and walked back into the inn and slept in her chair.



——



She felt hungry when she woke. Erin ignored the feeling and kept sitting where she was. But the pain started biting at her insides. She ignored it.

It went away. But a few hours later, it came back and tore at her. Erin wondered when she’d last eaten. Two days ago?

Her stomach gurgled and begged. Erin felt the starving pain gnawing at her mind. Eventually, it became too hard to ignore. So Erin decided to eat.

It was too much work to cook. And she couldn’t eat meat. So Erin got up.

The effort of standing up left her light-headed and dizzy. Erin swayed and fell onto the table. She lay there and stared at the ground. After about ten minutes, she pushed herself up and walked out the door.

The sun was shining. Erin shaded her eyes. It was noon. Of tomorrow. That was probably why she felt hungry.

She began walking. It was hard. Her legs didn’t want to keep her upright. Twice, Erin tripped and fell over. But she got up and walked on. Walking was hard, but it wasn’t nearly as hard as other things.



——



The orchard was just as she’d left it. The unnaturally straight, stiff trees still bore the bright blue fruits. Erin kicked one tree and caught the fruit as it fell towards her face.

For a while, she sat on the ground and stared at the fruit. The trees provided her with shade; the wind blew her hair back into her face. Eventually, Erin bit into the fruit and ate.

It was sweet and delicious. The juice was cool and refreshing. Erin tasted ash and dust. Mechanically, she finished the fruit and ate five more. Then she threw up.

Once she was done, Erin ate another fruit. It helped with the taste. Then she stared at the mess of fruit and the stained seed core in her hands.

She cracked open the seed core and stared at the pulpy mess inside. Poison. It was probably a really painful way to die. The smell was terrible. It would probably taste terrible.

Poison was a terrible way to die. Almost as bad as melting your face off.

Thump. Thump.

Erin smacked her head against the tree. It was nice and hard. The blue fruits showered down around her.

Thump. Thump. Thump.

She stopped when she saw the Goblins. They were standing at the edge of the orchard, four of them. They fled the instant her eyes fell on them.

One of the Goblins dropped something in its panic. Erin walked over and picked up the small basket made of twigs. It wasn’t very good.

She turned and looked at the orchard. Fruit trees. Of course. They were probably hungry too. She couldn’t see them eating the rock crabs, and the dino birds would probably eat them if they tried to steal their eggs. Aside from the occasional traveller, what else could Goblins eat?

Erin left the orchard. She walked back to the inn slowly, feeling her body gradually collapsing on itself. She probably needed to eat more. But it was too much work.

She sensed them following her. When she looked around, they fled. But they were slow, and she caught glimpses of them. Ragged clothes. Thin bodies. They looked like starving children, refugees from a war. Not like monsters. Except for the teeth and red eyes.

That gave Erin an idea. She stared at her hands for a moment and then picked up the pace. Suddenly, she was walking faster. When she got to the inn, she looked for the shopping bag and found Klbkch had stored all the ingredients away on the counter. It was very hard to start the fire. But when she’d started, it was easier than stopping.

Erin smelled smoke and burning. But only burning wood and not so much smoke. Mainly, she just heard breathing. And her stomach rumbling.



——



Evening fell upon the plains, upon the lone inn on the small hilltop, and upon the four Goblins skulking in the tall grass. They watched the inn. They watched the smoke rising from the chimney. They watched and heard their stomachs rumbling.

All of them had weapons. Not good ones; rusty blades and crude clubs. But they were dangerous.

Even so, they feared the inn. They feared the one that lived inside it. A trickster. A deceiver. A destroyer. She looked weak, but she was death. A burning death. Burning, melting death. A terrible way to go, even by their low standards.

They knew that. But still, they smelled something wonderful coming from the inn. Food. And they were so very hungry.

The inn had closed shutters, but they could still smell something wafting from the inside. It didn’t smell like rotted meat or the foulness inside the blue death fruits. It didn’t even smell like the dead, half-rotted animals they sometimes found on a lucky day. It smelled good.

They salivated. But they feared the inn. And they had to eat tonight or starve. So, reluctantly, they tore themselves away. They had hoped the Human female would drop some food or fall down dead. Since she did neither, they had to find other food.

Still, they hesitated. They lingered outside the door and wished they had the numbers or strength to steal the food. But the monster inside was death. She had killed the Chieftain, and so she could not be fought. It was death.

Still, they hungered.

The littlest Goblin had no more thoughts than that. Three Goblins were dead, now. The Chieftain, two more…their tribe might end here, before the snow came. That knowledge did not hurt her.

It just was. Her curiosity about the Human was gone. She saw everything clearly now. The Human female was death, a different kind than the Drake or the bug-person, but death nonetheless. She was hungry and empty and…and she wondered if the Human had any knives. She needed a sharp knife. Or she would die like the Chieftain.

The littlest Goblin’s gaze was empty, but like the other four Goblins, she wavered, debating, silently, whether or not she could steal a morsel from the inn. She was so hungry without the Chieftain to make sure everyone had a tiny bit of something or to kill one of the deer or something else like a few spiders.

How long did they stand outside the front door, drooling? Too long. The door slammed open.

The Goblins cried out in fear and turned to run. But the Deceiver didn’t chase them. She stood in the doorway of the inn, hands on her hips. She raised one eyebrow.

“Well? Come on in.”

The Deceiver turned and walked back inside. The Goblins exchanged a glance and stared at the open door. A good smell came from inside. They hesitated.

The littlest Goblin knew this might be her death. It would be just like the Human to kill them like the Chieftain. But the smell was so delicious. She clutched at her stomach, which was so beyond empty it now began to feel full. If she died, she wanted a bite of whatever that smell was. One bite, just one in her entire life. Her feet carried her forwards as the others hissed at her.

So, so delicious.



——



Erin turned as the first Goblin finally crept into the inn. He froze in place, but she pointed to a table.

“There. Sit.”

He…hesitated, and then scampered over to the chair. Erin thought it was a he. It was almost impossible to tell.

The Goblin awkwardly perched on the oversized chairs as Erin placed a plate on the table. Or was it she? They flinched with her every move. When she pulled out the forks, the tiny Goblin nearly bolted. But they sat up and stared as she brought the pot into the room.

The metal was still burning hot. But Erin used her t-shirt to protect her hands and carried the pot to the table. She picked up a pair of tongs and began dropping buttered pasta mixed with sausage and onions onto each plate.

The Goblin salivated. They stared at the golden pasta and up at Erin with wide-eyed wonder. They reached for the pasta with dirty fingers and hesitated. The tiny little Goblin stared up at Erin.

She stared back. Her eyes travelled to the Goblin’s fingers, which were scooting beneath the plate.

“Steal my stuff and I’ll hit you with a chair. Sit. Eat.”

The Goblin snatched their fingers back instantly. They stared at the pasta and then up at Erin. She wondered why the Goblin wasn’t eating. Oh. Of course.

“The first meal is on the house.”

The Goblin looked up at the ceiling. Erin sighed, but her lips twitched.

“That means it’s free.”

Again, the Goblin stared at her. This time in wide-eyed wonder.

“Eat.”

A hand reached for the pasta.

“Not like that.”

The Goblin snatched his hand back and nearly tumbled out of the chair. Erin sighed again. This time, she was smiling a bit.

“Eat with a fork. See this? Fork.”

She pointed to a fork. The Goblin stared at it. Slowly, the tiny figure picked it up. The Goblin inspected it, turning it around and understood how to use it, but admired the tiny tines. Then, gingerly, he speared one buttered noodle and slowly transferred it to his mouth. It hung over the open mouth full of yellowed teeth as he stared at her. Asking for permission.

Erin nodded. The noodle fell. The Goblin gulped and went very still. Deathly still.

Then he smiled. It was a terrible smile, full of sharp crooked teeth and hesitation. But it was a smile.

Erin smiled back. She laughed for the first time in ages. It was a laugh that came straight out of her feet and through her heart. It exploded out of her chest. It was a good laugh, and it made the world right again.

The Goblin looked at the laughing Human. The little Goblin put down his fork and ran out the door, screaming. It only made her laugh harder.



——



Erin put away the last plate and watched the last Goblin groan as it lay slumped on the table. Four Goblins. Six plates. She was surprised they’d managed to eat that much.

They were very small creatures. Still, they ate like starving wolves, which they were. At least, in that they had been starving.

But they lay now in a blissful food coma, on the border between pain and oblivion with their bloated stomachs. But as she approached, they sat up and stared at her.

Erin pulled up a chair and sat. The Goblins drew back, but they didn’t run screaming this time. They stared at her. She stared back.



——



After a long time, it was night. The smallest of the Goblins glanced towards the door, and they all stood up as one. Erin made no move to stop them.

Awkwardly, they wandered towards the door, still staring at her. Then one stopped and nudged the others. They clustered together, backs towards her. Erin saw something flash in their palms. The hairs on the back of her neck rose, but she remained seated.

One of the Goblins came back. It was holding something in its hands. It held it out to her.

Erin stared down at the three small, tarnished silver coins in the Goblin’s cupped hands. She blinked. Once. Twice. Then she let go of the chair and stood up.

The Goblin flinched, but Erin moved very slowly. She reached out and touched the Goblin’s hands. They were rough, dirty, and warm. She closed them over the coins.

“The first meal is free.”

The Goblin stared at her. She stared back. It turned and fled. But it stopped at the door and said something. It sounded like ‘sqwsmsch.’ Then it was gone.

Erin sat back down and stared at the door. She blinked a few times and then smiled. She stared around at the inn and wiped at her eyes. Then she pulled the chair in to the table and put her arms down for a pillow.

She was asleep the instant her head touched the table.





1.17


Erin woke up slowly. She woke up to the sight of a bag full of money on her table. For a moment, she thought the Goblin had left it.

It wasn’t the Goblin. In fact, the mysterious bag full of silver coins was courtesy of Klbkch. Erin peered down at the note he’d written and squinted to make out the words. To her amazement, it was legible, if slightly smudgy English! Even cursive?

For the destruction of a Hobgoblin Chieftain within the area of Liscor, you are hereby awarded 12 gold and 14 coins of silver, or equivalent in lesser denominations. Signed and witnessed by Senior Guardsman Klbkch.

—Senior Guardsman Klbkch



Post Script: Please excuse my poor handwriting, but I am not fluent in the script used by most Humans on this continent.

Erin peered down at the bag. She opened it and blinked at the sight of all the gleaming silver and gold. Gold. For a while, she stared at the shiny metal and watched as the sunlight made it glow. Then she closed the bag.

She gazed at the table. The money seemed like it was right out of a dream. But it didn’t actually matter much to her at the moment.

She looked back at the table. Had she dreamed that too? But no, she saw where the Goblin had spilled the blue fruit juice when she’d smiled at it. A large glowing fly was hovering over the table.

Erin sighed. But then she smiled. And suddenly, she knew what she was going to do.

First, she smacked the Acid Fly and ran around screaming until she washed the acid off. Then she ate breakfast, which were cold noodles mixed with sausage and onion. It was delicious. Then she walked down to the city.

A thought struck Erin as she walked. She’d have to go back to the market. The market where she’d lost all of her money. Her footsteps slowed and then picked up. Suddenly, Erin had two things to do today. She was looking forward to both.

——

The second time the Human female entered the market, every head turned. This time, it wasn’t just because of her smell. The looks were amused and hostile, a mix of both. But this time, they faltered a bit because the first time she had been pierced by all the stares.

This time, she returned the gazes until people looked away, but they watched her out of the corners of their eyes.

Erin marched right up to the stall where she’d been ripped off. She glared at the Drake and then squinted. They had purple scales, but it was more of a lilac-purple. And they looked a bit—smoother-scaled? There was a different curve to their face. Erin hesitated.

“Wait a second. Have we met?”

The Drake shook her head. A distinctly female voice emerged from the toothy mouth.

“Do you wish to buy a necklace, Human?”

Erin eyed the pendants and other jewelry on display.

“Later, maybe. Right now, I want to talk to the Drake guy who ripped me off the other day. You know; the one that took all my money. The ugly one.”

The other customers and shopkeepers nearby who heard that laughed loudly. The female Drake grinned and covered her smile. She pointed, and Erin turned to see a scowling Drake four stalls down.

“You.”

Erin marched over to the Drake. He glared at her, but now, Erin reflected the glower and added more to it. He shifted his gaze pointedly over Erin’s head. She cleared her throat. When he still ignored her, she kicked the bottom of his stall.

The Drake looked down and snapped at her.

“What do you want?”

Erin gave him a polite smile without any of the sincerity.

“Why, I’d like to do business. Jerk.”

The Drake hissed under his breath. He shook his head at her and flicked his tail in her direction.

“My store’s closed to you, Human. I won’t sell to those without a hint of respect for others.”

“Respect? I have tons of respect. Just for anyone who’s not you.”

Several of the other shopkeepers laughed at that. Erin noticed she and the Drake were drawing a crowd. She didn’t particularly care.

The shopkeeper Drake glared harder at Erin.

“You’re obstructing my business. Leave before I summon the Watch.”

He turned his back on Erin, but she rapped on his counter.

“My business with you isn’t done yet. I want my money back. You ripped me off the other day.”

The Drake looked over his shoulder.

“So? I offered you my goods, and you paid my price. That is a basic rule of buying and selling. I have done nothing wrong.”

There was a general murmur of agreement from some of the shop owners and a discontented rumble among the shoppers. A Gnoll woman leaned over her stall, opening her mouth, but he shot her such a ferocious look she fell silent. She was watching Erin, anyway. There was an expression she liked on the Human’s face this time, and she stood closer to the shop counter, not huddling like she had on the first day.

Erin Solstice leaned over the counter and fixed the Drake with a glare.

“Oh yeah? What if I’m not happy about what you sold me? I think for two and a half gold coins you should be selling me enough onions to fill the bottom floor of my inn. So how about I return to you what I’ve purchased and you give me a complete refund?”

The Drake sneered at her.

“Do you take me for a slow-witted hatchling or a Human fool? I won’t accept food that’s days old! Besides, this store does not give out refunds!”

“Really? Where does it say that?”

“Right here.”

The Drake pointed to a sign. Erin stared at it and up at him with narrowed eyes amidst the laughter. She heard a low growl from the Gnoll woman and hesitated. Then she grinned mirthlessly.

“Oh, right. It does say that, doesn’t it? Too bad I can’t read. But I do remember you had your prices listed as well, didn’t you?”

She looked around at the other pieces of paper pinned to the wooden stall. The Drake shopkeeper lunged, but Erin was quicker. She pulled the familiar piece of paper away and waved it in front of his face.

“Well. Why don’t we call the Watch after all? Buying and selling is all very well, but what about sticking to prices you write down?”

The Drake shopkeeper hissed again, long and slow this time. His eyes flicked to the paper and back to Erin’s face. He wasn’t sweating, but Erin was pretty sure lizards didn’t sweat. Or maybe he just didn’t think he was in trouble yet.

“Even—even if you have that bit of paper, what of it? I sell to many customers. And you—I barely remember what I sold to my last customer, let alone you.”

“A bag of flour, one pot of oil, a small bag of salt, sugar, yeast, four sausages, and two onions.”

Erin said it instantly. She paused for a second.

“And one crappy bag.”

The Drake stared at her with an open mouth. She smiled sweetly at him.

“I’ve got a good memory. A really good one, actually. Perfect for numbers and lists.”

He didn’t have much to say to that. But the look on the shopkeeper’s face told Erin he wasn’t about to start tossing gold coins around. She leaned over the counter and stared at him. She wished she wasn’t so close. His breath smelled of rotten meat.

“I want my money back. I’ll give you a few silver coins for what I paid, but I’m not leaving here until you give me my money. Now, we can do this the hard way and call a bunch of people over and you can lose all your business for the day, or you can give my money back and I’ll—hey, is that a chess board?”

Erin pointed at one of the Drake shopkeeper’s displays. Everyone turned and looked. Amid the cluster of items he was selling, the Drake had a few chessboards complete with little pieces fashioned into Drakes and Gnolls!

Erin saw a knight piece in armor, a Drake with a sword and a shield, and her eyes locked on what was, instead of a bishop, someone with robes and a staff. A mage? But everything was the same; it was even set up, and he had a little sign attached to it that she couldn’t read. It had something like exclamation marks, though, so she guessed it was a hot product?

Suddenly, Erin’s fury about being ripped off was replaced by pure fascination and excitement.

“Oh hey, it is! It’s just like—I mean, the pieces are different, but it’s chess, it is!”

The Drake snarled and batted Erin’s hands away.

“Get your hands off that! This is a valuable item! These are custom-carved and based on the Titan of Baleros’ standardized rules! The best [Tactician] in Liscor plays on these very boards I sell! I bet you don’t even know how the game is played!”

Erin glared back. Her hands were suddenly itching to hold a chess piece.

“It’s a chess board made out of wood. Unless it’s made out of gold—which it’s not—it’s about as expensive as that food you sold me. So I guess you’re selling this for three gold coins, too?”

That got another laugh from the crowd who had gathered to watch Erin’s showdown with the shopkeeper. The Drake, on the other hand, just grabbed the chess board and pieces and went to shove them below his counter. Then he stopped and turned to her with a gleam in his eye.

“Are you a player of chess, Human? If so, why don’t we bet on a game?”

Erin raised one eyebrow.

“You mean, we play a game of chess for my money? Why should I do that?”

The Drake spread his arms innocently. Erin noticed his tail was wagging on the floor, but she pretended not to notice.

“Human, you and I have a dispute. I refuse to pay for goods sold, and you refuse to leave. So long as you’re stinking up my storefront, I won’t have any business, so I offer a wager in good faith. Win against the player of my choice and I will pay you back the money you paid me, though it will cost me my goods that I have earned honestly. Lose and you agree in front of witnesses not to bother me again. That is my best offer.”

“Lism…”

Once again, the Gnoll [Shopkeeper] growled warningly, and even the glare he shot her didn’t keep her from opening her mouth. Even one of the other Drakes looked concerned.

“Lism, that’s a bit much…”

Erin narrowed her eyes at ‘Lism,’ and the [Shopkeeper] shot glares at the others to keep them silent while he gave her an innocent look. She knew something was up, but Erin just thought for a moment and then nodded. Her lips twitched once, but she managed to suppress them.

“Fine. Let’s play.”

The shopkeeper smiled down at her. It was a smile full of teeth.

“Give me ten minutes to call over my player. Then I will teach you why it is unwise to bet against your betters.”

Erin gave him a big, happy smile.

“Fuck you.”

——

Twenty minutes later, Erin sat at a table in the middle of the street and played with a pawn. She set up the board and checked that it was right.

“All the pieces are in the right spots? And these move like this?”

She turned to one of the onlookers, the super-tall Gnoll woman whom she’d met on the first day. The Gnoll squatted next to the board and frowned, conferring with a few others.

“Hrr. Yes. That’s exactly how they move. You should call the Watch, Miss Human. You won’t win this game.”

Erin blinked at her. The woman sounded concerned and kindly. She nodded to the purple-scaled Drake, Lism, who was marching back with Erin’s opponent in tow.

“Your opponent is very good, and Lism, that slimy bastard, will refuse to pay you if you lose.”

“I know. How good is my opponent?”

“The best in Liscor.”

The young woman’s fingers stopped moving as she picked up a little piece and admired it. Erin glanced into the Gnoll woman’s face and exhaled.

“That good, huh? Got it.”

She didn’t get up or stop arranging the chess pieces. The Gnoll woman gave Erin an exasperated look and stood up, shaking her head. She joined the watchers as Erin got up to inspect whomever Lism had brought.

This Drake was interesting. He was shorter than Lism, clearly younger, and his scales were sky-blue, not a grungy purple. He had a light tunic on with the same insignia as Relc’s badge, and he had a few ink stains on his claws.

He also looked fascinated by Erin and actually held out a claw to shake before Lism brushed forwards.

“Here he is, my nephew. Olesm, meet, er, this Human.”

“What a delight. A Human? A [Trader]? What’s this about, Uncle? I’m supposed to be at work, you know—”

The Drake had a pleasant voice, and he looked around nervously, but Lism hushed him.

“The Council will spare you a few moments, Olesm. Just sit down and win a game or two.”

He smiled innocuously at Erin, and the young woman saw the younger Drake try to hold out his clawed hand again and once more Lism stopped him.

Olesm was his name? He was thinner than the shopkeeper, but the Drake was still taller than she was. He sighed, glanced at his uncle, and finished setting up the pieces on his side with clear familiarity. Olesm seated himself and smiled at Erin across the table.

“I apologize, Miss Human. I rarely get a chance to play any games within the city these days. May I know whom I am playing against?”

“Of course. My name’s Erin. Erin Solstice.”

He nodded to her.

“I am Olesm. I believe you know my uncle, who asked me to play in this match.”

Erin gave her opponent a friendly, genuine smile and then looked over his shoulder.

“Is that your uncle? My, you two don’t look alike.”

The Drake hovering over his nephew’s shoulder hissed at her. Olesm raised what would have been his eyebrows if he had any.

“I understand this is a game with a wager. I would urge you not to bet against me. I am quite a good player.”

The shopkeeper interjected quickly.

“We have already agreed to the terms. The Human cannot back out now.”

Olesm glanced at his uncle, irritated, and opened his mouth to reply, but Erin shook her head.

“I’m not backing down. Let’s play. Besides, I wouldn’t want to disappoint the crowd.”

She gestured at the crowd of watching people. They were definitely people, but Erin wasn’t sure what else to call them. Drakes, Gnolls, and even one of Klbkch’s kind, the Antinium, were all gathered in a circle to watch the game. The Gnolls and Drakes stood close by, and Erin noted the Antinium was sweeping the street.

But every now and then, quite often, it would glance at the board, and it seemed really keen on getting the dust out from behind some stalls. None of the Gnolls or Drakes paid any attention to the Antinium save to keep their distance, and the crowd was quite distracted, anyways.

Some of them seemed to be betting as well, and though Erin couldn’t hear what they were saying, they didn’t seem to be betting on her victory.

“Are you sure, Miss? I really am quite good. I will be playing at my best.”

The blue-scaled Drake looked anxious, but Erin gave him a bland smile.

“I don’t intend to lose either.”

Olesm sighed, but made no further objection. Instead, he peered at the board and made sure his pieces were all aligned within the squares. He struck Erin as a very meticulous and careful type, which made him unique among the Drakes she’d met so far.

“I’m surprised you know about this game. It was invented just a few years ago. By the Titan of Baleros himself. I’ve been playing it nearly since it came out, but it’s not caught hold yet in a lot of cities.”

“You don’t say.”

Erin was busy examining the board, but she found that fascinating. She had already gone over the rules, but…she lifted one eye and then put a confused look on her face. Erin tapped one of the pieces, a Drake with a scepter and crown.

“I’m not sure if the rules I know are the same in that case. This piece here. You can move a king together with a rook like this, right?”

The Drake blinked.

“That’s right. I’m surprised you know that move.”

“Oh, I’ve seen a few players use it. Knights move like this, right?”

“Correct.”

“And pawns can move two spaces on their first move, right? And if a piece is here, they can take it diagonally?”

Lism was trying to hide a gloating smile as the Gnoll woman groaned and the onlookers hastily tried to amend their bets one way. However, Olesm looked quite pleased by Erin’s questions.

“You seem to know this game. Well, well. This might be a good challenge after all.”

Erin smiled blandly at the Drake.

“I’m no expert. But there’s a wager on this one, so I’ll play my best. The white side moves first.”

“Indeed it does.”

The shopkeeper smirked, and the other watchers crowded around closer as Olesm pushed a pawn forwards. Erin smiled at him.

“Not many players lead with a pawn from the side. Most like going down the center.”

She pushed a pawn forward quickly. Olesm shrugged as he contemplated his next move.

“I have found this strategy to work in some of my games. It is fascinating to play such a new game of strategy, and so I always test new theories out on the board.”

A game that had only been out two years? So he probably didn’t even have a name for that opening move. The shopkeeper anxiously hovered over Olesm’s shoulder. He hissed in the younger Drake’s earhole.

“So long as you win. You must win no matter what.”

Olesm narrowed his eyes but didn’t take his eyes from the board. Eventually, he pushed forwards a pawn to counter Erin’s pawn. He was chatting conversationally as Erin moved a piece too-quickly. Olesm was clearly thinking over each move, but Erin seemed not to be thinking at all.

“So you’re really good at chess in Liscor, huh? Have you played a lot of games?”

Erin pushed another piece forwards instantly and shrugged. Olesm blinked, and the onlookers muttered.

“A few. But should you not spend more time thinking?”

She waved a hand at him.

“Don’t worry, don’t worry. I’m having a blast. I just think fast about my next move, that’s all.”

Olesm frowned at her, looking irritated by her attitude. He pushed forwards a rook in reply, a bit hastily, and retorted, though she doubted he was the snappish type. He was more…peeved.

“You should think harder. I have played over a hundred games so far and won over two-thirds of them. If you truly are betting something important, it would not do to lose this game so easily.”

Erin smiled back at him.

“A hundred? Wow. But like I said, don’t worry. I like to play chess too. And I’ve played a…few games too. I’m not worried.”

“Why’s that?”

Erin smiled wider.

“Because I’m going to win.”

——

By the time Relc got to the market street Erin was on, the game had gone on for twenty minutes. A few customers were at the stands haggling, but most were still watching the game. One smart Gnoll was selling them food as they watched, and the shopkeepers seemed content to put their business on hold to watch the fun.

Relc was not having fun. He shoved his way to the front of the crowd and grabbed Erin. The crowd protested angrily. So did Erin.

“Hey, what are you doing?”

“What are you doing?”

Relc snapped back at her. He pointed angrily to the game of chess where Olesm was taking his time considering his next move.

Erin shrugged.

“This? I’m getting my money back. Let go of my shirt. You’ll poke holes in it.”

She tried to peel off Relc’s claws from her shirt. Relc let go, but pulled her away from the game. He leaned forwards and hissed at her.

“Stop playing. This isn’t a fair game.”

“What?”

Erin looked at the board and back at Relc.

“You can’t cheat in chess. It’s fair.”

“No, it’s not.”

Relc raised his voice and pointed to the shopkeeper.

“Hey, you! Yeah, you. I know you. Stop the game. This isn’t fair. The bet’s off.”

The crowd rumbled in discontent at Relc’s words. The Drake shopkeeper spread his claws out innocently.

“It is a fair game. She let me name my player, and we agreed to the wager. There are many witnesses. It would be wrong to cancel the game now, Senior Guardsman.”

Relc eyed the Drake shopkeeper balefully. Erin noticed the shopkeeper’s tail was wagging a bit. He also had a gleeful look if she was reading his face right.

“I hate to agree with that jerk, but he’s right, Relc. I agreed to the wager, and I want to play. I’m going to win my money back and play some chess while I’m at it.”

“Are you crazy? You’re going to lose this game.”

Relc hissed at Erin. She blinked up at him.

“Am I? Why’s that?”

Relc growled under his breath. He jerked a thumb over at the seated Drake who was studying the board with a frown.

“That guy you’re playing? He’s a [Tactician]. The highest-leveled one in the city!”

Erin blinked again.

“So? Does that mean he’s good at chess?”

“Very!”

“Well, so am I. It’s still a fair game, isn’t it?”

“No! Are you stupid?”

Relc seemed close to tearing out the spines on his head.

“All [Tacticians] can tell when they’re being led into a trap! They’re good at playing these games—they have Skills! Tactics are a [Tactician] thing—it’s in the name! How do you not know this? If you play one in a game, they’ll win almost every time! Plus, that idiot loves to play that stupid game!”

The Olesm looked up and glared at Relc.

“I’m not using any Skills. I am simply matching Miss Solstice in a game of wits, Relc. Practice makes the player.”

Erin glared too, much to Relc’s chagrin. She jabbed him in the leg with a finger, looking more annoyed by his comments about chess than her odds.

“It’s not a stupid game. And so what if he likes to play? Like I said, so do I. And I’m a good player.”

“You still can’t win.”

“I can.”

“You can’t.”

“Oh, hi Klbkch.”

Erin turned away from Relc and waved at the silent ant man who had come up behind Relc. Klbkch nodded at her politely.

“Miss Solstice. Please forgive my companion’s interruption. We are on duty, and it is improper of us to disturb a member of the public without cause. But Relc insisted we speak with you once we heard of the bet that had been made.”

“Really? You heard about the bet?”

Klbkch nodded.

“Indeed. It is all over the city.”

“Yeah, everyone was talking about the stupid Human who was dumb enough to wager on a game of chess against that idiot.”

Relc jerked his thumb at Olesm. The other Drake continued pondering the board, but Erin could see him grinding his teeth in his seat.

Klbkch nodded and leaned forwards to confer with Erin. Lism looked worried as two [Guards] glanced his way, but he clearly didn’t like Relc or Klbkch. Especially Klbkch from how he glowered.

“I understand this is a bet made to recover your lost coin. However, I fear I must issue the same warning as Relc. The odds of you winning a game against Olesm are quite slim.”

At this point, Erin was getting exasperated by everyone telling her the same thing, but she glanced at her opponent, and a mischievous smile crossed her face.

“Olesm. Oh yeah, that’s what his name is.”

Erin covered a smile as Olesm’s eye twitched. She turned to Klbkch and Relc.

“Look, I’m glad you two care. But I’ve got this. It’s fine. You’ll see.”

The two guardsmen stared at her, unconvinced. Relc turned to Klbkch and whispered. Unfortunately, his voice was still quite loud, and Erin and those around them could hear him quite plainly.

“I don’t think she gets it. Humans are kinda slow. You explain the [Tactician] bit to her.”

“I believe you have given her adequate information. If she will not listen to you, she will not listen to me.”

“Exactly. So stop calling me stupid or I’ll hit you.”

Erin glared at Relc, who shuffled his feet and looked away. She glared at Klbkch, who raised all four of his hands and bowed his head, and then shifted her glare back to Relc.

“Let me play. You two can watch, but I’m going to play and win.”

“But—”

Erin raised a finger.

“No. Go away and let me play.”

Relc opened his mouth, closed it, and then hissed long and loud. He threw up his hands and stomped back into the crowd.

“Humans!”

Erin slid back into her seat and smiled at Olesm.

“Sorry about that.”

Olesm glanced over Erin’s shoulder and sniffed at Relc and Klbkch.

“Think nothing of it. But if we’re done with the interruptions, it’s your move.”

“So it is.”

Erin pondered the board. Then she slid another piece forwards.

“Oi, Klbkch. What’s she doing? Was that a good move? It looked like a bad move.”

“I am uncertain at this point. Allow me a few moments to assess the board before I give you my opinion. And please, lower your voice.”

Erin covered a smile as Olesm’s eye twitched. She waited for him to play another piece. As she did, she studied the board.

Chess. The pieces were different, and she was playing in a street in a city full of walking lizards and talking ants. But it was still chess.

It was wonderful to play again.

——

Olesm frowned as he toyed with a bishop Erin had cornered with one of her knights. He had no idea what a ‘bishop’ was; the [Carvers] had styled it after a [Mage] instead, but the Titan had referred to it thusly and that was how it was called in the game’s rules.

Naturally, Olesm used the word because anything the Titan did, he did. The Drake moved the piece diagonally one way and then frowned. Then he moved it another way and frowned again. He glanced up at Erin.

She stared back at him innocently. The Human waited as the Drake moved his piece back and forth around a rook she’d used to attack his queen and then took one of her pawns with it. His frown didn’t go away, but he seemed content with the move. For about three seconds.

Erin moved another of her pieces forwards instantly. Her knight—a scaly Drake with a buckler in one hand and a scimitar in the other—took one of his pawns.

“Check.”

A susurration went through the audience around the two players. That was, except for Relc, who had gone to one of the stalls to buy something to eat. Olesm leaned back in his chair and gave Erin an admiring look.

“Well done, I hadn’t anticipated that.”

“It was just a lucky move. Well, not lucky, but it was quite nice, wasn’t it?”

“Indeed.”

Olesm moved his king sideways.

“Your turn.”

Erin pointed at the board.

“Oh, that’s check too. Sorry.”

Erin tapped her queen and pointed down the board. The Drake player grimaced and moved his king the other way.

“That’s check as well. See the rook?”

Olesm paused and blinked at the table. The crowd murmured more loudly, and Relc came back to look at the table.

After a minute, Olesm made a move that wasn’t check, and the game went on. But now, he took longer and longer between each move, and his frown, which had started about five minutes ago, didn’t go away.

Meanwhile, his uncle, the shopkeeper, watched the board with clear anxiety. He glared at Erin, who smiled serenely back at him. Whenever Olesm made a move, she would instantly move a piece and take one of his own or threaten his king. Eventually, she stopped staring at the board and stared at the shopkeeper with a smile on her face as Olesm frantically searched the board for a comeback.

Something was wrong. At first, he’d thought she was careless. But as the game had progressed, Olesm had noticed he was losing more pieces. Yet he didn’t process his vague sense of unease until this moment. He began moving his pieces, taking few of hers, and watched as his began to fly off the board.

Like someone creeping up on him. Like a Rock Crab, the young woman closed her trap. And the ‘even game’ he’d thought he’d been playing began turning into—the young woman smiled at Olesm and Lism.

Her voice was quite even, but she kept speaking each time she moved a piece. Not every turn, but she said it to the crowd’s growing amazement. It was just part of the game. Although, the way she said it might be a bit rude.

Nevertheless, Erin calmly looked Olesm in the eyes as she placed a piece near his king.

“Check.”

“Check.”

“Ooh, no check this turn. But watch out for your rook. It’s that or your queen.”

“Check.”

“Check. And it’s check if you do that too. And that…”

“Check.”

“Check.”

“Check.”



Erin Solstice by ArtsyNada





1.18


“Checkmate.”

At last, Erin slid her last rook into position. Olesm stared at the board and then tipped over his king with a trembling claw.

A sigh ran through the audience surrounding the chessboard. It sounded like disbelief. The choking noise coming from Lism’s mouth was like a lawnmower engine failing to rev up. But the rest of the crowd exhaled in pure amazement.

The tall Gnoll woman’s arms were slightly uncrossed, and she was eying Erin with a look of amazement. Relc—pure incredulity as he peered at the board. Klbkch was counting how many pieces Erin had left. Then, his head rose, and he looked at Erin, surprised. Nodding to himself, as if he’d suddenly seen something obvious that had been hidden by the clouds.

Erin cracked her fingers and grinned. It wasn’t her best game, but she’d gone for drama over efficiency. Her opponent had a single king left in the middle of her pieces, and she had a small army surrounding him. She smiled up at Olesm, who’d turned pale. Her audience was gaping at her and the chess board.

Two rooks, one knight, a bishop, her queen, and a few pawns. Olesm had one king. Technically, he’d been in check for a long time, but Erin had hunted down the last pawns before putting him into a final checkmate.

She would have been ashamed of herself, doing this to any other rookie player. It was rude, bullying, and any chess tourney in the world would have probably had some things to say to her in private or called her out on the spot.

But she wasn’t home, on Earth, and she had never taken a game as personally as this one. Erin stared up at unfamiliar skies and the open ramps and sprawling architecture of a city unknown to her. Drakes and Gnolls, gazing at her with faces full of scales and fur.

She couldn’t even read the signs. But the game? Erin Solstice’s eyes tingled slightly. The game had never left her. Chess. Her game. The pieces looked different, but it played the exact same way, and she knew that board more than she knew the back of her hand or her own room. She had sat on both ends of the board ever since she was five years old.

The blue Drake, Olesm, was still in a state of shock. He was staring at his lone king, tipped over, like he didn’t know what had hit him. And to be fair—Erin had to admit she didn’t look like a chess expert. Who did, though?

She was no grandmaster, anyways. She’d quit, come back—it was a long story. But it was enough to say that if chess was a few years old in this world, Olesm, who might have…four years? She had forgotten how long the game was out.

Call it a four-year-old chess player going up against someone with at least four times his career. She’d played grandmasters—and sometimes won. And that had been when she was a girl.

“Good game. Let’s play again sometime, okay?”

Erin reached over and patted Olesm on the shoulder. The Drake looked slightly shell-shocked and made no reply. Erin waited, then shrugged and stood.

Klbkch and Relc made their way through the crowd to her. Relc was still pointing at the board and gobbling.

“You won. But how did—but he’s—you won!”

“Congratulations on your victory, Miss Solstice.”

“Why thank you, Klbkch.”

Erin grinned at Klbkch. The ant man nodded back.

“May I ask how you managed such an incredible display? I would not have thought it possible, nor deemed it prudent to bet against Olesm in a game of chess until this moment.”

Erin shrugged. There was no harm in telling. Besides, both the shopkeeper and his nephew were still staring at the board.

“You said he’s played for a few years, right?”

Klbkch nodded.

“And he is a Level 22 [Tactician]. There are few higher-level [Tacticians] even within the Liscorian army. Although that is largely because most consolidate to [Strategist].”

Erin had no idea what that meant, but she nodded as if she understood.

“Good for him. But I’ve been playing chess for…at least fifteen years, now. I stopped playing for a while until recently, but I used to play at least three games before I went to sleep each night. He might have a fancy Skill, but a rookie’s still a rookie.”

This time, it was Klbkch’s turn to do the staring with Relc. Erin smiled at both of them and then tapped the shopkeeper on the shoulder.

“I want my money back. All of it, thank you. And while you’re at it, I’ll buy the chess board and pieces too.”

The Drake gaped at her. Then the color returned to the scales in his face, and he backed away.

“I—that game was—”

Erin interrupted him.

“If you’re about to say it was rigged, don’t bother. And if you want a rematch, I’ll gladly play again if you double how much you owe me. Which is a bad idea because I’ll win. I want my money.”

The Drake blanched, and his scales turned pale. Erin smiled at him. His tail was twitching hard in agitation.

“My mind is…slightly hazy. I’m afraid I have no recollection of how much you spent. Unless of course you could tell me?”

Erin gave him a winning smile.

“Two gold pieces, seven silver, and four copper exactly. I don’t have a receipt, but I’m sure Klbkch and Relc could help you find out.”

Lism stared at Erin as if doubting her memory, but it was just numbers. Like chess moves—Erin couldn’t remember the Pythagorean Theorem to save her life, but she could remember entire chess games. At her words, Klbkch nodded seriously and bowed in his direction.

“As Senior Guardsmen, we would be happy to provide assistance in assessing all financial income for your business, as well as any unpaid taxes that may be extant. For now, we will have to order your shop closed while we begin a thorough investigation of your wares and inventory.”

Relc grinned evilly.

“Right. Let’s start flipping over tables until we find a receipt.”

The Drake shopkeeper made a strangled shrieking sound. He tried to block Relc, but the Drake [Guardsman] was already happily trashing his store. Erin hid a grin.

Only now did Lism’s nephew seem to come out of his stupor. He jerked, looked at the chess board, then stood slowly. Olesm walked up to her, his tail dragging low on the ground. But he did hold out a clawed hand to shake.

“I must congratulate you, Miss Solstice. I have been truly humbled by your skill. Please, accept my sincerest apologies for questioning your ability.”

Erin fidgeted awkwardly. She hated this bit. At least he was taking it better than some. There was no shame in losing. Sometimes you got frustrated, but when pride was on the line or you refused to admit you’d lost to a girl—she took his hand and shook it gently, looking into his eyes.

“Oh no, you were a good player too. I really shouldn’t have played like that as well against a rooki—another player.”

“You are too kind. But I know when I’m outclassed. I have to ask—are you a [Tactician] by any chance?”

“Me? No. I’m not. Sorry?”

Olesm drooped further. Erin could practically feel him kicking himself. She tried to cheer him up.

“Don’t feel bad. I’m not a professional player, but I’ve won a chess tournament or two in my time. I’ve even played a grandmaster and won. One of the few female ones, which was really cool. But I was so nervous at the time I totally forgot to castle, and I lost my rook to—”

Erin broke off and cleared her throat, blushing. It was a bad memory, but at least Olesm stopped looking like a kicked puppy-lizard. Indeed, he was staring at her with vivid interest.

“Is this ‘grandmaster’ you speak of a class? Is it possible—could I take such a class myself?”

An alarm bell went off in Erin’s head. She tried to think fast and failed.

“Um. Maybe? It’s more like a title where I come from. Besides, grandmasters only play chess. I’m not sure if that’s a class.”

Olesm nodded. Erin could practically see him taking notes in his head.

“Perhaps it’s a class only obtainable at high levels in the [Strategist] class line. If ever I have the opportunity, I shall take that class at once.”

“You can do that?”

Erin blurted it out. Olesm nodded again.

“Of course. I am merely a lowly [Tactician], the first of the [Strategist] class line. But should I advance in level and learn more skills, I might qualify for the [Strategist] class. And perhaps after that I might one day become a [Grandmaster]…? It makes my scales shiver to imagine such a class.”

Olesm stared dreamily off into the air. Erin edged away from him a bit.

“Right, well good luck with that.”

She wanted to go back and get her money, which the Drake shopkeeper was practically begging Relc to take as the other Drake frolicked in the destruction of his shop. But Olesm had her cornered, and now Klbkch was on her tail.

“Miss Solstice. I believe this is your wager.”

He offered her the exact lost sum she’d quoted. Erin took the coins gratefully.

“Thank you, Klbkch.”

He raised his mandibles and opened them in a…smile? Olesm edged back from Klbkch at once, but not far. The Antinium nodded politely.

“I am merely fulfilling my duty as a member of the Watch. And once again, may I congratulate you on your victory? I would greatly enjoy playing a game against you once I am off-duty.”

Olesm nodded in fervent agreement. Erin smiled and wondered whether they’d follow her back to the inn.

“Another game? Sure, sure. After I finish my shopping—well, one or two more games won’t hurt, but I don’t have time today.”

Klbkch nodded while Olesm visibly drooped. Erin felt bad, but she also knew his type. As in the type of player who would challenge her to another game day and night unless she said no.

“Tell you what, next time, we can play a bunch of games. Not just chess—if you guys have got other strategy games, I’d love to play them too.”

Olesm’s face lit up.

“Do you like these kinds of games, Miss Solstice? Gnollstones? Magical cards? I’m sure you must be quite good at any game you play.”

Erin grinned and waved a hand self-deprecatingly, but her ears perked up at the fascinating names. She noticed Klbkch glancing at Olesm silently, but then the ant man returned his attention to her.

“Oh, I love all kinds of strategy games. I always surfed YouTube for—uh, what I mean is, I used to watch and play tons of chess games. And not just chess; I learned how to play Shogi, Go, and even a few card games. But I couldn’t gamble, so there was that.”

Erin shrugged. Olesm stared at her blankly.

“Excuse me, but I am unfamiliar with these games. Is ‘shogi’ another game of strategy as chess is?”

“No, no. Shogi is a game that originated in Japan. And, uh, Japan is…and…um…”

Erin trailed off. Klbkch and Olesm stared at her intently. She could practically see the Drake’s eyes lighting up in eager interest.

It occurred to Erin that trying to explain a game that originated in a country in a world that no one had heard of that used a language based off of a culture which also didn’t exist would probably be a bad idea. But they were both staring at her. It was Klbkch who saved her.

“—Of course, these games are quite rare outside of your home nation, Miss Solstice. I doubt they would have permeated to Izril yet. I have heard of and observed Shogi before.”

Olesm glanced at him and hurriedly nodded before shaking his head.

“Oh! Yes! Sorry, it’s my mistake for not recognizing—hah, I suppose there are a lot of games I should look into. Forgive me.”

“Not at all. Um—maybe we should save that guy’s shop?”

Erin relaxed and pointed at Relc. Olesm turned, distracted, and Erin mouthed a silent ‘thank you’ at Klbkch. She could have sworn he twitched one antenna at her, like a wink.



——



Liscor had several markets that were open at any given time during the day. It also had many streets. So it had more than one Market Street too. But only one had a Human walking down the street and admiring the displays.

Erin’s feet hurt. She felt that was ridiculous. After all, she’d been playing chess while sitting down for nearly an hour. Yet, she hadn’t stopped smiling as she played first Olesm, then Klbkch in a series of quick games.

Which she’d won. All of them. A rare thing among chess players, but while they were good…Erin had enjoyed herself so much she’d been on fire, metaphorically speaking, and played her best.

Not only that, she had her money back!

Erin jingled the money pouch at her belt. Klbkch had helped her buy one to carry all the money she now had. It was wonderfully heavy and made lovely chinking sounds as Erin walked, but she was also worried someone would steal it.

That was why she had to spend all of it fast. Erin hesitated and then walked a few stores down from where the Drake shopkeeper was screaming over his destroyed shop and cursing Relc and Humans in general. She approached another stall, filled to bursting with all kinds of goods. It looked nice.

Each wooden stall was, simultaneously, identical and unique if that made sense. Identical because they were carbon-copy frames of wood, a counter and semi-enclosed space that each [Shopkeeper] could place their goods in and sell from. Erin had seen similar things at farmers’ markets back home.

What made them unique was that the canvas roofs were all hand-stitched and of different colors. So a blue tarpaulin covering might have tiny little golden Dragons on the edges, or another stall would just have a plain white cloth covering. And the goods were obviously different for each.

A Drake was selling what looked like…armor? Made out of eerily black chitin. In fact, he even had a sword sheath shaped like a giant…leg. An insect’s leg. Erin wondered if Klbkch found it offensive, but she was reminded less of the Antinium’s beetle-ish forms and more of a spider.

A big spider if that was the leg. She shuddered and hurried on, but the Drake was still calling out.

“Shield Spider gear! Cheaper than Pallassian steel and almost as good! Anyone fancy some adventurer’s equipment? No? Please?”

Not many people wanted to wear spider-based armor, it seemed. Another Gnoll was just selling pots and making a killing, from the looks of it. He had cheap cooking pots, cups, storage vessels—anything you could want. Erin was curious, but what she needed was food.

While there were a number of produce-selling shops, only a few had a myriad of goods, which Erin guessed were [Shopkeepers] like the terrible Lism, who had a bunch of items on display. One caught her eye, and it was a stall with a rich violet covering. Violet—with a silver-threaded fang in the center. Striking, attractive, and simple.

Erin had been too harried the other day to appreciate the shop, but she recognized the owner. And this time, she slowed down and really looked at the owner.

It was that tall Gnoll woman who’d warned her about Olesm! She, like many of her people, wasn’t wearing a full-body dress, but a kind of decorated breastband and waistcloth. It worked because, well, she was covered in fur.

A light mahogany color. Or…walnut? Erin wasn’t sure how many colors of brown she actually knew, but the fur covered the Gnoll from head-to-toe. Like the other Gnolls, she had a vaguely…hyena-shaped head? A mane of darker hair running down her neck, like Drakes had neck-spines, and her ‘fingers’ and ‘toes’ that Erin could see in her sandals were furry paws, although fully flexible.

She seemed well-known by a lot of the shoppers here and called out greetings to a few who passed. When she caught sight of Erin, the Gnoll woman sniffed.

Unlike the first time they’d met, the Gnoll [Shopkeeper] did not greet Erin or wave her over. She folded her arms and waited.

Erin winced inside, but there was nothing for it. She stepped closer and waved at the tall Gnoll.

“Um. Hi. Are you open for business?”

The Gnoll looked down at Erin. She wasn’t smiling.

“I am, and I see you’ve wrestled some coin out of Lism’s claws, that greedy hoarder. Good for you, Human. But if you are here to look down your nose again at my goods, I would prefer not to waste my time, no?”

She seemed offended, and Erin recalled that she’d run off straight to Lism and snubbed the Gnoll’s friendly greetings. Erin blushed and ducked her head.

“What? No, no. I’m actually here to, uh, apologize.”

Erin tried to gauge the Gnoll shopkeeper’s reaction. It was hard to read her face. Like Relc and Klbkch, a Gnoll’s face didn’t display the same expressions as a Human one. But Erin didn’t detect the same amount of hostility in her features.

“Oh? What do you have to say then?”

“Um. Sorry?”

The Gnoll raised one eyebrow, and her ears twitched back. That was a Human reaction, so Erin went on quickly.

“It’s just that I was having a bad day, and I met this other Gnoll who really didn’t like me. So, uh, I was kinda afraid you would get growly at me too. But I’m sorry about that. I shouldn’t judge by, uh, species.”

The Gnoll looked at her. Erin still couldn’t read her face. But—weren’t Gnolls kind of like hyenas? They looked like them. And hyenas were cats. Or maybe they were dogs. Either way, Erin peeked at the Gnoll’s ears.

They were twitching. And once Erin saw that, she saw the Gnoll’s lips were twitching the merest fraction. Erin tried out a smile. To her surprise, the Gnoll smiled back. And laughed. She had a lot of sharp teeth, but the laugh was so boisterous Erin wasn’t as afraid.

“Hah! This is the first time I have heard a Human apologize in…months? A good day, yes? It is good you come to make amends. I will forgive you and forgive the smell you stink of as well.”

Erin frowned. Was this good or bad?

“Sorry, I don’t want to make you mad again. But—do I really smell that bad? I just had a bath.”

The Gnoll shopkeeper laughed again. She—and now that Erin looked, she was definitely a she— clapped one hand on Erin’s shoulder. Erin’s knees buckled.

“I do not mock you, Human. But I laugh because I forget others do not have our nose. Forgive, please. You stepped in something on your way to the city.”

Erin rubbed at her shoulder surreptitiously. Then she looked down at her feet, made a face, and began dragging her foot around on the street.

“Eugh! What was—that’s so gross! I’m so sorry! I had that on my foot the entire time? You’re totally forgiven. Your nose is amazing! Do I, uh, smell at all beyond that?”

The Gnoll shopkeeper nodded, turning serious.

“You smell of burned ash and trash. No; not just that foul smell. Even burning trash smells better. I know not what it was, but I can still smell it on you. You could also use some soap, a shampoo for your hair.”

“Really? You can smell all that?”

Erin sniffed at her arm experimentally, but she smelled like she always did. Better, actually, since she had found the stream to wash up in.

The Gnoll wrinkled her nose.

“Oh yes. It’s not too bad now though. All that blood and oil covers it up.”

Erin froze. The Gnoll laughed at her expression. Then she sombered and gave Erin a long, appraising look.

“I smell that too. Blood and death. Yet you don’t stink of fear anymore. You smell like a [Warrior] from my tribe after their first battle or hunt. I am relieved for that, yes? You have a bravery in you, to win a fight to the death alone.”

“It’s nothing to be proud of.”

Erin replied automatically. Her stomach was dropping out of her legs, but the Gnoll shopkeeper didn’t seem to notice.

“Isn’t it? You stormed back here, trounced both Lism in words and his nephew in chess—although Olesm is the better of the two by far—and in front of all to see! Warrior and tactician, both! A fine day for a young woman to have—”

“No.”

Erin cut the shopkeeper off flatly.

“It’s not anything to be proud of. At all.”

The Gnoll stared down at her. Erin met her gaze. At last, the Gnoll shrugged.

“Hrm. If you insist. I apologize if I’ve erred. Humans can be difficult to understand.”

That last remark stung. Erin gritted her teeth.

“Why do all of you say that? I’m Human. So what?”

The Gnoll grinned at her with all her teeth.

“Because you are Human. Few of us have ever seen your kind here, let alone talked to one.”

Erin smiled sourly.

“Well, you’re the first Gnoll I’ve talked to. The first one that wasn’t angry at me, at least.”

The Gnoll [Shopkeeper] laughed and slapped Erin on the shoulder again, but gently. Two huge brown eyes met Erin’s, and she growled in approval.

“Hah! You are a spirited one! I like you. So I will introduce myself. I am Krshia, [Shopkeeper] and seller of goods. And you are the Human who slew the Goblin Chieftain! What is your name, brave little one?”

So she knew, already, who Erin had killed. The young woman bit her tongue.

“I’m Erin. Erin Solstice.”

Erin stuck out her hand but found herself grabbed and squeezed tightly by the Gnoll shopkeeper. It was a bear hug by a creature that looked sort of like a bear. She was strong enough for a bear too, and Erin felt oxygen quickly leaving her body.

The Gnoll must have heard Erin squeak or felt her dying because she eased up on the pressure. She sniffed at Erin, only wrinkling her nose slightly. For Erin’s part, she smelled spices, sweat, a strong doggish smell, and that earthy smell that came from a day or two of not bathing. Then she was on the ground blinking up at the Gnoll.

“There. We have met, and we are now friends. Come into my shop, Erin Solstice, and tell me what you need. For the pleasure of seeing Lism humiliated, I will give you a discount. And I will not steal your coins. That is a promise from a Gnoll of the Silverfang tribe.”

“Silverfang?”

Erin blinked at her, but stepped inside the stall and looked around. Her first impression of Krshia’s full stall was of a dazzling panorama of goods. Sacks of food, neatly labelled as ‘wheat’, ‘rye’, ‘ashwheat’, and so on, occupied the lower part of the stall. In English, along with labels in that foreign script! Higher up were some books with interesting labels. Erin saw only a few on display, and they were pricey—gold instead of silver! But Krshia had a bunch of knives sharing space with some earrings made out of what might have been pure silver and bits of gemstone.

At first, it looked like everything, but Erin noted gaps in the stock. It appeared everything Krshia sold was in popular demand. She blinked as she took in the huge supply.

“Wow. Okay. That’s a lot of stuff. But that’s good, because I need a lot of stuff. Like food, clothing, um, soap. Toothpaste—do you have—?”

“Aha. I see why Lism got exasperated. Let us take a moment to breathe, Miss Erin.”

Krshia cut Erin off with a friendly smile and a raised finger. She gestured Erin onto a stool.

“I am not gifted with perfect memory via Skill or otherwise. Let us make a proper list, and I will be able to see what you want, yes? It will take time, but we shall be more organized than me fetching this or that.”

Erin nodded, impressed by the decision-making. It made her feel a bit silly for not having a list herself, not that she had any paper. But her mom would have had a grocery list.

Her mom. Erin’s mind caught at the idea, but she pushed it down and focused on the Gnoll. Krshia bared her teeth at her again, but Erin was pretty sure it was a smile. A toothy smile, but the Gnoll was inviting.

“I will give you a fair price. Just as I said. I hail from the Silverfang Tribe, far to the south. The Great Plains of Izril. Have you heard of us?”

“Um. No. A tribe, huh? What does Silverfang do?”

“Oh, we are fine [Traders], but we also mine silver and do much with it. I have not been home in nearly a decade, but you may find many Gnolls in Liscor are Silverfangs. Sit, sit! Ah, here is some parchment. Now, tell me what you need. And then I will have your goods delivered rather than make you pay for a bag.”

She growled derisively, and Erin realized this was another way she might have been ripped off by Lism. The young woman blinked.

“Delivered? You do deliveries?”

Krshia laughed.

“Of course. Did you think many would carry off bags of flour as you did? It is too hard. No; the stupid shopkeeper Lism, fur sheddings that he is, didn’t tell you and gave you the bag on purpose. But then again—have you never had a Street Runner deliver anything? It may be a bit more for somewhere outside Liscor, but I know a few Street Runners who will do it.”

Erin glanced over at Lism’s distant shop. He was still screaming at his store and his nephew. It looked like Olesm was recreating the game they’d played on another chess board. Erin had already bought the board she’d won on.

“I feel bad about that, actually.”

“Bad?”

Krshia stared at Erin in surprise and then laughed again.

“Humans are strange. He would not give you the same if he were in your place; he surely would not.”

Erin shrugged.

“Still, it’s not nice. And the law should be equal for everyone.”

Again, Krshia stared at Erin. Erin shifted uncomfortably.

“Well, that’s what I was always taught. Plus, I bullied Olesm a bit.”

The Gnoll shook her head, but not in confusion so much as…a kind of amused gratification.

“That is a viewpoint I have not often heard since coming to Liscor. So, you truly knew what you were doing, but you pretended to be humble and baited him into that game. Cleverer still!”

Erin ducked her head.

“I didn’t know he was going to challenge me to chess! That was a lucky coincidence. I just—happen to be really good at it.”

“Hm. How good is ‘really good?’ Olesm may be young, but he is considered the best player in Liscor sheerly by how much he plays. From how you speak—it sounds like you made a choice to ‘bully’ him. If he were a Level 20 [Warrior], say, what would you be?”

The question caught Erin off-guard as Krshia produced a tub of what might have been toothpaste—and a brush. She offered Erin a choice between mint and lemon, and Erin pointed at the lemon.

“I, uh—well, I dunno. If he’s Level 20…I’d be Level 60?”

Krshia nearly tripped and caught herself and turned to stare at Erin. Instantly, Erin felt like she’d made a mistake.

“Is that off?”

“If you say it’s so—so you could beat him one-handed, eh? Blindfolded, even? What did you want? Soap? I have a few from the [Alchemist]. But to wash the body…no, this is hair conditioner for Gnolls. I don’t think you need quite this much. Scale cream…I will have someone find it.”

Erin saw Krshia glancing her way as she produced a bar of soap. The [Innkeeper] fidgeted. She knew it sounded like bragging, but—she coughed into her hand.

“Er…I might be able to beat him blindfolded.”

At this, Krshia actually stopped and gave Erin a look that said she didn’t believe her. Erin raised her hands.

“Sorry! I know it sounds like I’m blowing smoke, but you can play chess blindfolded if you know the pieces. He’s a talented…rookie. But he doesn’t know any chess openings, and I’ve played since I was a kid.”

“Since you were a child. Hrr. Now that’s…”

Krshia’s eyes sharpened, and Erin fidgeted, but the Gnoll smiled in an incomprehensible way. She walked over and tapped one of the earrings she had. Erin noticed it was set with a beautiful bit of quartz which was glowing a bright blue. Wait…hadn’t it been clear just now?

“Fascinating. This truth-stone earring says you are telling the truth. So I believe you.”

“Wh—truth stones? That’s what that thing is? I’ve never seen something like that! Is it magic?”

Krshia looked amused. Then she frowned as the blue glow grew brighter.

“Really? Not once? I…have never seen a truth stone before either.”

At that, the stone turned a murky red color, and the Gnoll poked it a few times, looking mystified.

“So it is working. Tribes! Well, I suppose…they’re not the most common, and it is an expensive item. More gold than you have, Miss Erin. Not that I won’t sell it to you if you have, er, forty-eight more pieces.”

As she did not, Erin changed the subject, but she noticed Krshia glancing at the earring in confusion more than once.

“So. These deliveries…how do they work?”

Krshia smiled. She pointed to a small wooden bowl filled with brightly painted wooden tokens. Circular, with little markings on them in the unknown script. Erin looked at them and saw each had an intricate little design of red and gold that made up a pattern around the edge. The center was filled with some words and a symbol. It looked a bit like…a foot? A stylized, clawed foot like Relc’s.

“Don’t tell me you’ve never seen a Runner’s Guild Seal before? Hah—maybe not Drake ones? You haven’t? Well then…they are for Runners. When I give you one, I will keep its twin, yes? Then, when a Runner delivers your goods, you will give him the Seal you have, and then I will know my goods have been delivered. It is simple.”

Erin picked up one of the pieces of wood.

“Runner’s Guild? So you’re saying it’s like a postal service?”

“A what?”

“Um. A delivery service?”

“That is what I have said, Erin Solstice.”

Erin blushed while Krshia grinned toothily at her and laughed.

“Right, sorry. I just haven’t ever heard of these Runners before. What do they do, besides make deliveries?”

Krshia gave her a long look and snuck another quick look at the blue earring. She seemed to be checking whether Erin was making fun of her.

“Runners run. They are quick ones, those who can run long distances to earn money. Sometimes they deliver letters, other times valuable things. Goods, yes? Magical items, messages that must only be spoken to one person. Such are expensive requests though. Only the best carry such things. Most just deliver goods very cheaply. I can call one and have all that you buy delivered to your inn for a good price.”

Erin thought she knew what Krshia was talking about. In the bustling city, hadn’t she seen a few Gnolls and Drakes racing about faster than everyone else? Krshia nodded when she mentioned seeing them.

“That would be a Street Runner. If you were living far away, I would call for a City Runner. For a long journey, perhaps to another continent, or in a dangerous spot, or if I needed the fastest in the world, I would pay for a Courier—and spend a fortune on the delivery!”

That sounded good, but Erin had learned skepticism here.

“What’s a good price?”

“It is the broken inn a few miles east of here, yes?”

Erin nodded. Krshia scratched her chin.

“…Four silver coins. Not a small price. If it were the city, it would be one, or maybe coppers for a small delivery. But it is far, yes? And if it is heavy and monsters lurk about, the price goes up. You are lucky the Goblins are scarce and the Hollowstone Deceivers do not travel this late in the season. So I advise you to buy a lot and have the delivery done once, yes?”

Erin thought about that. It sounded really good. Better than carrying anything herself.

“I like it.”

Krshia grinned at her again. This time, Erin grinned back using all of her teeth.

“I knew I liked you for a reason. Then tell me what you want, and let us not waste the light, eh?”

“Sounds good to me.”



——



Later that evening, Erin sat in her inn and felt at her money pouch. It was much lighter now, but she felt a lot better about it. She felt a lot better about life, actually.

She had fresh clothes on, and she no longer smelled of…well, she no longer smelled. Instead, her skin had been bathed in an orange-y scent from the soap she’d used. And lemon toothpaste made her mouth feel fresh. And she hadn’t had to dodge fish in the stream while bathing either.

The day had been full of busy things, and none of them had been entirely bad. After she’d bought all of the goods she needed from Krshia, and even haggled a bit over the price, the Gnoll had shown her to the bath house to have a proper wash. Then Erin had gone back to her inn, eaten the rest of the pasta, and she was now enjoying a minor food coma as she sat in a chair in her inn.

Erin played with one of the chess pieces on the table. She’d carried the chess board and a few essential items like soap with her back to the inn. She hadn’t wanted to let the chess board go. It was incredible, really. Chess? In a world like this? Actually, it made sense, but Erin was still amazed. She had to keep touching the pieces to make sure they were real.

But she had to focus. Erin dragged her mind back on track. Krshia told her the Runner would deliver her stuff tomorrow at some point. Until then, she could clean up the inn a bit. Or maybe play a game against herself. That was fun too. It was just—

Erin stared down at the chess board. She murmured to herself.

“Knight to D4. Pawn to E3.”

Suddenly, her good feeling vanished. Erin felt cold. The food in her stomach was dead weight instead of comfort, and she felt sick. Her hands shook as she put the pieces back on the table. Everything was better. It really was. But…

—If she closed her eyes, Erin could still see a Goblin lying on the ground next to her. If she opened her hands, she could still feel the dead weight between her palms.

Erin moved a pawn up and took the knight. She stared at the pieces on the board.

“It’s kill or be killed in this world, after all.”

She put her head in her hands and rubbed at her eyes. Yes. That was what she’d learned. And she hated it. All of the good that had come to her seemed like it had been built on the bad.

The bad. The dead. A game of chess on a pile of corpses. Erin stared at the chess board.

She was good at chess. She liked chess. She’d grown up playing chess and other games like that, despite the fact that girls weren’t common in chess tournaments. Chess had been fun to her until she’d grown up and realized she’d never become a Grandmaster herself. She was good, but not great. But chess had still been her hobby. Chess was fun. It was about outwitting the opponent, about using strategy—

It wasn’t at all like killing someone.

Erin stared at her hands. They were quivering. She could still feel them burning. It was all a game, though, wasn’t it? A game with levels and classes. A game like chess.

“It’s just a game. Just a game?”

Erin stared at the board. Pieces. If she thought about it like that, then death seemed to matter less. She’d done the right thing. She’d defended herself, killed the monster.

Killed the monster.

She stared down at the two dead Goblins. They were so small. Like children. And they had family. Friends. Those who loved them.

The ragged Goblin. The ones hiding outside her inn, scrawny and afraid. They were the enemy too, if she played the game like chess. The right thing to do would be to hunt them down and kill them. That was how all games worked.

That was how you played chess.

Erin sat up. She remembered the Goblin’s hand in hers, the feeling of his skin. She remembered his smile. She remembered laughing.

And then she understood. Erin put her hand underneath the chess board and flipped it off the table. Both white and black pieces soared into the air and clattered against the floor.

Erin stood up.

“I remember why I got bored of chess. There’s only one winner and one loser. The best game for both players is a draw.”

She walked over to the door and yanked it open. Then she stopped and turned. She raised her middle finger and flipped off the chess board a second time.

“I’ll make my own rules. And anyone that doesn’t like it can go to hell.”

The door slammed shut as Erin walked out. A few minutes later, she rushed back into the inn and carefully put all the pieces back onto the chess board.

“Still a great game, though. Don’t take it personally. Let me just get a quick snack for the road. And I need some soap. Proper hygiene and all that. Where did I put the soap? Soap, soap, soap…I should really organize all this stuff. Maybe tomorrow.”

Then she was gone, running down to the city. There was still plenty of daylight left in the sky. And she had one more thing left to do. The most important thing of all.



——



The sun was setting over the grassland when the young woman returned to the inn. She stopped, again, and saw a streak of purple grass blowing as the cool winds came down across the rolling hills and valleys. Shadows crept and lengthened across the old inn. They should have exposed cracks, but as she looked up, the darkness seemed to hide the age of the building, all the little imperfections and signs of age.

Like this—it looked like what it had been in its heyday, a lone building set against the fading crimson sky, visible for miles away if it were lit up from the inside.

Erin Solstice slowly put down her burden. Her arms hurt, and she regretted not adding this to the delivery, but she had been too excited to wait. Krshia had humored her and even helped Erin buy what she wanted.

She was carrying a bucket filled with nails, a brush, and even a few slats of straight wood planks. And a hammer. It was quite heavy, and the young woman muttered and rubbed at her aching shoulders.

However, she eventually reached the inn’s door and set down her burden. Then she gazed up.

The shadowy sign was long-since faded. The little one that said ‘open’ and ‘closed’ hung below some façade, some…signboard above the doorway that had once been this inn’s name.

Even if she had been able to pick out the letters, Erin felt it was in that other language. She did feel guilty, but she got to work as she set her tools down. Then she pulled something out of her pocket and grimaced.

“Aw. The water.”

She had a packet of what looked, at first, to be plain white dust. And some black charcoal or other powder. But when Erin found some water and filled another bucket with it, the dust turned the water white, and the second turned another black.

Powdered paint. Very handy, and it beat hauling a bucket of paint back all this way. Erin mixed up both, then dipped her brush into the first bucket. She gave the inn’s signboard a coating and hoped it dried as fast as Krshia claimed.

The inn lost its name quickly as Erin stood on a chair she propped on top of a table she’d dragged outside. She felt a pang, but it had lost that name long ago, with its customers and owner. It needed a new one, especially if she were to stay here.

It felt…reverential, almost. The girl picked up the bucket of black paint and the brush and thought a second. She dipped the brush in the black paint and painted a broad stroke on the wide plaque above the entranceway. She wrote the beginning of a letter, frowned at it, and then cursed and shouted obscenities and had to cover it all up with white paint again.

It was hard to write properly, and it took her several tries as the daylight escaped the world to finish her sign. Numerous coats of paint to cover her mistakes. Multiple tools. A paint-scraping knife to get rid of the paint when it became too thick. A hammer to hit things while she vented her frustrations.

But eventually, the sign was done. The young woman sighed in relief and then picked up the pieces of wood she brought with her. This was easier, so she only took the paintbrush and wrote on it briefly. Then, she planted the pieces of wood in the ground and drove the sign down with the hammer a few times.

By now, it was dark. So dark that Erin was yawning, hungry, and covered with paint. In defiance of any good painter or craftswomanship at all, she left the tools on the ground where they lay. Even the paint brush in the bucket.

“Food. I hate painting.”

The paint was already drying, and the sign and plaque were done. The lettering was crisp and clear, and if any travellers had been present, the words would have caught the eye.

But there weren’t any travellers. The inn was long-deserted, and no visitors had come here for a long time.

Yet—it didn’t matter. The inn’s shuttered windows began to glow with a bit of light. As they did, a few people stopped outside the inn. Not guests. Not yet.

Just…a young [Necromancer], rubbing at his rumbling stomach and glancing up at the new sign. He raised his brows and inspected the smaller sign. He recoiled—shook his head, and gave the inn a strange look.

Almost as strange as the smallest Goblin, peeking at the inn in the darkness. Her night vision was good, but even so, she had to hurry forwards when he left and puzzle out each word in the Human’s language one by one. She too stared and hurried away, just as confused.

It didn’t matter. The lack of guests didn’t matter. The sign was what mattered. The new name of the inn and the message mattered. They were written, now there to stay. As was the young woman.

So, as Erin Solstice slept, the twin moons rose, and the night sky began to brighten. The moonlight from the two moons, a pale blue and a faint green, caught the inn’s sign. The letters spelled out the new name:



The Wandering Inn



Next to the inn, a large sign was hammered into the earth by the door. It read:



“No Killing Goblins.”



Thus began the story of The Wandering Inn.





1.19 R


The wind blows through my hair as the sun rises. Past the mountain range they call the High Passes, which divides Izril in half, a fierce breeze blows north, and I wonder if it’s come all the way down from those peaks hidden among the clouds. It blows down past the screaming Goblins trying to kill me and catches an arrow mid-flight.

The arrow zings well wide of my face, and the wind chills the sweat on my skin. It’s a good feeling. The wind. People often underestimate how a brisk breeze can change your day.

And on this day, when the sky is blue and clear without a cloud, who wouldn’t want to be outside? The air’s chilly with the hints of winter coming, and the breeze is better than air conditioning.

It’s a perfect day for running. I’ve run through bad days when the heat can drop a horse, and I’ve run through thunderstorms, typhoons, and even dog crap. Twice. And while I can grit my teeth and keep running even when the wind’s against me, I live for the days when it has my back.

Oh, right, the Goblins. They’re still sprinting at me, but here’s the thing—they’re short. And they’ve been waving their shortswords for the last ten minutes. Aside from the one with the bow—which is a concern despite the terrible aim—the others aren’t that quick.

The one in front is clutching at his side. Her side? I see a hopeful mouth of teeth turn into a smile, so I turn and start sprinting.

The grass is knee-high, and I grin at the screech of dismay from behind me. I’m not sweating much despite the hard run, and my eyes fix on the ground, what I can see of it. It’s been a great run so far, despite the Goblin ambush.

There’s a reason my eyes are on the ground, not my pursuers. A large rock appears in the grass, and I hop over it just in time. Careful. At the speed I’m running, I can easily break a foot if I trip over one. I’ve split my toenails more than once by kicking rocks at high speed. Not fun.

Keep running. Actually, scratch that. Run faster. The wind blows against my face, and I smile again. It’s the small things that make life good. Like the wind.

The wind cools you down. It gives you something to run against; makes you feel alive. It also helps throw off arrows when people are shooting at your face.

An arrow flies through the air, and I change my course slightly. It slices through the air past my left arm. Too close.

I adjust my path and pick up speed. I’m nearly out of the range of the Goblins that have been hunting me. A few more seconds and I’ll lose them.

Goblins. They’re frightening little monsters with red eyes and pointy teeth. They look more like demons, actually. But they’re real enough, and they like eating Humans and, purportedly, even worse. If they can catch them, that is.

One pops out of the grass as I run towards the city in the distance. It’s a larger Goblin than normal, and he’s wearing rusty chainmail and holding a short sword. Damn. A Hobgoblin? That’s what they call them. He must have been circling around this entire time!

He swipes at me at knee-height, trying to cripple me, and I jump. Straight over the blade. The Goblin gapes as I land and then sprints after me.

My legs blur. The Goblin slices at my legs, but I’m already out of range. He runs as fast as he can, but I pull away so quickly that it’s like he’s standing still.

“Nice try.”

I mutter under my breath as I keep running. I don’t have the time or air to actually say that out loud, of course. Besides, I’m not good at comebacks. Or…insults. Either way.

The Goblin stops after a few more feet and howls at my back. I ignore him and keep running. After a while, I hear the Goblins’ shrill war cries end as they give up the chase.

After what feels like a few miles or, to be more worldly, a few kilometers, I stop. I do a quick scan of the area around me. Shorter grasses dominate this gentle downwards slope. Looks like I’ve lost the Goblin tribe.

I take a few deep breaths and wipe at my forehead. Not much sweat. Good. I’d be worried if I got tired that quickly.

“Whew. So that was my first ambush.”

What a way to start the morning. I’d be lying if I said it was normal, but I can get used to anything. I think. I could have used a bagel and some coffee on the streets of the greatest city in the world*, but this is far more exhilarating. Unless I got run over by a cab or something.



*Obviously, New York.



It would have been close if they’d fully encircled me. I shouldn’t take shortcuts through the high grass like that—especially when I have such valuable cargo.

Is that how they knew how to get me? I check the rucksack I’m carrying and feel a thankfully intact piece of glass inside the leather container. I don’t want to know how much I’d pay if it got broken. And it might have been why the Goblins were after me. Maybe they could detect valuable goods?

“Or Persua, that sallow bitch, tipped them off. Nah, nevermind. Even she doesn’t talk to Goblins.”

I shake my head. Sour grapes. I can just imagine how fuming mad she is right now since I’ve taken ‘her’ delivery. Well, I don’t think she would have enjoyed and/or survived that ambush.

Back to running. After a few seconds, I start walking and then transition into a jog. I could take it easy now the adrenaline has left my veins, but time is money, and soon, I’m back up to speed. Not sprinting speed—I need to conserve as much energy as possible for the emergencies like Goblin attacks, Carn Wolves, bandits, Zombies, Skeletons, Crelers*, and the other nasty things that live in the plains**.



*I’ve never actually seen these particular monsters. I’m not even sure if that name is right—they have other nicknames like ‘Tunnel Crawlers’, but they’re a world-renowned threat. Apparently they’re not something you want to meet.

**If I make it sound horrible, it’s only because I’m aware of the possible dangers. At any given time, there’s really not that many monsters lurking around. It’s just that you never know when one will pop up. I checked a bestiary in the Adventurer’s Guild, and they have an entire tome just for the local threats.



Anyways, I keep running. I enjoy the wind blowing through my hair for a bit and finally reach the city in question. It looks, well, like most of the settlements I’ve been to over the last week.

Tall, gray walls and spearmen and archers in towers that keep an eye out for monsters. This is Celum, or something like that. It’s a city, one of the southernmost in this region before the High Passes. They have a [Mayor], but they don’t pay fealty to any noble family directly, so that makes them a city-state*. And that’s my destination for the moment.



*More like just a city. It’s not that big, but all of the cities have their own form of rule. Some are ruled by a council, others have elected leaders like we do back at home, and some still have lords and ladies, although apparently the nobility isn’t in charge everywhere, which is something. The point is they all band together if threatened, but they have their individual squabbles and goals. Just like the good old USA.



I approach the open gates. A guard’s on duty next to a winch so he can slam the gates shut if a dangerous person approaches or if they’re really ugly, but he doesn’t even twitch as I approach.

“Hoy there.”

He greets me. At least, I think it’s a greeting. It’s more like a curt nod, and he’s blinking sleepily in the dawn light. He probably hopes I’ll just trot into the city, but unluckily for us both, I’m trying to be at least somewhat responsible. I wave at him as I slow down, and he begrudgingly stands a bit taller.

He has…well, what I’d charitably call a ‘mustache,’ but it’s more of an attempt at one. I guess he’s either too young or not gifted with facial hair. Aside from that, he’s wearing cheap leather armor, and he has a sword. Between that Hob and this guy in a fight, I’d give it to the Hob, but that’s what walls and the other members of the guard are for, I guess.

“Hm? Something wrong, Miss Runner?”

He looks me up and down, and I notice his eyes finding my feet. Bare feet. I smile at him—and my stomach clenches. I hate talking to new people, so I gesture awkwardly behind me.

“Goblins. A few miles outside the city. A group jumped me.”

The [Guardsman] blinks, and suddenly, I have his attention.

“Goblins? How many? Are you hurt, Miss?”

“No…I don’t know, two dozen? And a big one, a Hob?”

“Hobgoblin? Two dozen Goblins…another tribe. Dead gods, and there are [Traders] on the road. Where, exactly?”

“The—tall grass over there? Only three miles?”

I point in the vague direction I came, and the [Guardsman] peers as if he thinks he can see them.

“That’s not good. We need to send a patrol out and hire a Bronze-rank team. Silver, maybe…you outran them, Miss? Did they have bows?”

“One or two. They missed.”

I grin, and he gives me a strange look as if he doesn’t believe me. It’s hard to hit a moving target! But then he’s looking around.

“I need to inform the Watch Sergeant. And—could you wait here, Miss? I’ll need you to show me the rough area where they are for the Adventurer’s Guild and the Watch—”

Ah, shit. That’s what I get for trying to help. I raise my hands as I begin to jog forwards.

“Sorry, I wouldn’t know the exact spot. Just over there. They probably ran off. Listen—I’m a City Runner. I’ve got to go.”

“But the Goblins—”

“I’m on a priority delivery! For Magnolia Reinhart!”

“Lady Reinhart?”

The [Guardsman] hesitates, and his face screws up in agony. Yep—this is just like home. He’s clearly weighing being responsible for me being late. He curses, then waves me through.

“If you can circle back this way, Miss—I’m Guardsman Wesle! Any help you can render the Watch would be greatly—”

His voice is already receding as I hurry down the cobblestone street. Yeah, right. No offense, but I’m not walking for an hour while people say, ‘is it this patch of grass they popped out of?’ I did my best. Won’t take this gate on the way out.

Hard cobblestone replaces grass, and I slow down a bit, cursing. Now, instead of stones or sticks, I’m looking out for bits of glass, crap, and other hazards on the street.

From a fast run I slow down to a jog, but not the kind that you see on TV most of the time. I hate the stupid bouncy run actors pretend to do, which clearly misses the point of running. Jogging, like sprinting or walking or anything else, should be fluid and concise. You don’t waste energy looking like you’re standing on a pogo stick.

They have no form. But then, I’ve heard that said about how actors handle guns, do action fights, and about anything else. And my expertise is running.

Let’s see. I’ve never been to Celum, but pedestrians are already out and about despite the early hour. Good. I’d hate to have to wait. I navigate down the streets, using the wooden signs posted above the streets for guidance. There’s a sidewalk to allow the wagons and other wheeled transports and horses to travel about, but few are on the road and I’m in a hurry, so I head straight down each street.

It’s great that everyone around here speaks and writes in English. How amazingly annoying* would it be if they wrote or spoke a different language? But by some contrivance of fate, English is the dominant language in this world. Of course, other languages exist, but apparently, most species know English. And they write it in Human lands.



*And realistic.



Anyways. As I slow down to let a cart go by, I think of what the guard said. He seemed amazed I got out of the ambush unscathed, and I have to admit—I was caught off-guard at first. Running means tunnel vision a lot of the time. And, uh, I’m bad about seeing everything at once, even when I don’t have an iPod blasting music* in my ears. Maybe I should run without my headphones in?



*Pop. And rock. And techno, but that’s hit-or-miss. Look, if I can run to it, I will. I have a soft spot for country music, but it’s hard to keep up speed when I’m listening to a harmonica’s croon. Country is for crying or nostalgia. At least, that’s the only kind of song I download.



At last, I reach my destination. By which I mean I reach a tall stone façade of marble and gaze up at a fancier class of painted wood door than I’ve seen elsewhere. Unlike the other houses which enter onto the street, this is a proper mansion within the walls.

It has a walkway and a garden past an iron gate and more glass than any other building in the city, I swear. Whoever lives here can obviously afford it; she’s hired me. But she even has a glowing magical light spell affixed to a little lantern next to the gate.

A magical spell. To be precise, a glowing crystal, which is this world’s version of a lightbulb, only the glow is gentler and comes from within the entire crystal, rather than a filament burning hot with electricity.

Magic. But not everyone can afford a damn magic light. Nor is just anyone titled like the owner of this mansion. I only have to check once.

Lady Magnolia Reinhart. Yep, this is her place. One of her places, as I understand it, but from the shockingly pink carriage* sitting to the side of the mansion…I’d guess that she’s here.



*Garishly pink, really. I mean…there’s pink, a subtle color not often found in the natural world, and then there’s the pink you get on princess dolls. The pink that sears the eyes. That pink is on the entire damn carriage in various shades. It offends my very soul. Even the horses don’t seem to be near it; it’s unhitched, and I pity the poor people who have to stare at that all day. Some people have no taste.



I take a few deep breaths. This is the part I hate the most. But it has to be done, so I steel myself. And hesitate. I take another deep breath, worry about hyperventilation, and then trot up the garden path and take the brass knocker and bang it a few times.

I really do hate this part the most.



——



Celum, just past dawn.



The instant Lady Magnolia, a member of the Human nobility in the northern part of the continent of Izril, opened the door, she clasped her hand to her heart.

“Oh my! Are you here with the delivery already?”

She personally opened the door, despite the pair of [Maids] hovering behind her and the [Butler], who stood to attention behind both. It was so fast it caught the nervous young woman outside by surprise, and she backtracked a few steps before nodding hastily.

“City Runner at your service.”

Her first impression of the [Lady] was of pink. A pink dress cut almost like business attire, but so shockingly vividly dyed it matched a whirlwind of curled, dirty blonde hair and stood out as the most vivid dress Ryoka had ever seen since coming to this world. The owner of the shocking colors had less vividly green eyes, but her smile engulfed all the other features. She had been smiling before the door opened and her expression seemed to dance ahead of her words.

Magnolia Reinhart thrust the door wide and smiled as she gestured the young woman in. All three of her servants stared at the muddy feet of the City Runner, but the [Lady] barely paid any attention as she swept back inside. The entrance to one of her homes was carpeted with a long tapestry of a grand war, and she walked over the faces of brave warriors vanquishing some horrific monstrous menace with too many legs without noticing it.

The young woman did notice the carpet, nearly forty feet long, hand-sewn, and the mirrors, portraits of noble forebears of Magnolia, and the three servants, all of whom silently stood aside and bowed as she hesitated at the doorway. But Magnolia just beckoned her in, and the young woman swallowed her words as Magnolia spoke too quickly to interrupt.

“I hadn’t expected you so soon! But where are my manners? Magnolia Reinhart, at your service! You are the City Runner I’ve been expecting, yes?”

She turned, and the young woman managed to croak out a few words, her throat tight with nerves.

“Mm. Your seal?”

She set down her pack and began to open it. One of the [Maids], who had a pair of spectacles almost as severe as the frown on her face, made a displeased sound. Scandalized, even. Lady Magnolia hesitated and then touched her fingers to her brow.

“Oh. Of course. Seals. It’s been so long since I—I’d completely forgotten. Please come in while I fetch it.”

The young woman hesitated and eyed the pristine mansion behind Magnolia. It only occurred to her that she really didn’t need to ask for a Runner’s Seal. Not from this person. She began to sweat, but it was too late. The [Lady] noticed her hesitation and glanced down. Her eyes widened slightly, but she took the moment in stride.

“Oh, don’t worry about that. I have plenty of servants who can deal with little stains. Please, come in, come in!”

The young woman hesitated and then reluctantly stepped into the house. She looked up and around at the marble flooring she was currently dirtying, the fancy rugs, the tapestries on the wall, and clearly wished to be elsewhere. But Magnolia just swept towards the nearest room, a sitting chamber, and she was already fiddling around with a little pot set next to the wall.

“Now, where did they put the seal? Normally, I’d leave this all up to my [Head Maid], Ressa, but I just knew it was my delivery. Hm…hmm…here!”

Her hand plucked a silver-and-sapphire token from the plate. The beautiful seal was half gleaming silver, the other half a semi-translucent pool of cerulean. It looked as expensive as could be.

Magnolia presented the token to the young woman, who received it with extreme care. Then, the [Lady] patiently waited as the young woman carefully stowed the token in a belt pouch at her waist and then undid her pack.

It was a backpack, but not one that would ever grace any store in the world the young woman had come from. Rather, instead of Velcro and machine-tooled stitches and individual and superfluous compartments, this pack was made of leather stitched to cloth and had all the aesthetics of a black bug crawling on her back. But it could be tightly secured with strings and opened without having to be taken off.

Carefully, the messenger, for that was what she was, removed a heavily-wrapped item. She held it out.

“Here, all in good order.”

She should have offered it to a servant. She should have said, ‘[Lady] Reinhart,’ or offered some courteous address. In fact, at this point it was quite acceptable for one of the [Maids] to produce a club and harry her into the street. Any other Reinhart would probably have done that, but Magnolia was smiling and took the wrapped parcel quite graciously.

“Thank you very much, Miss Runner! Are you new to the region? I confess, I haven’t seen you around before, and I make it a point to get to know the best City Runners in the area.”

“I’m new.”

Magnolia waited, but nothing more was forthcoming. So she smiled and carelessly unwrapped the heavy layers of wool and string that had protected the item. The young woman blinked at the detritus littering the floor and then looked back at the package she’d so painstakingly brought this far.

An enameled bottle of red crystal caught the light in Magnolia’s hands and practically illuminated the foyer. It stood at odds with the liquid within, a fine, practically clear blue liquid, such that the resulting shade through the crystal bottle was a brilliant, vivid purple, far more outstanding than a mundane wine as Magnolia held it up to the light.

“Beautiful, isn’t it?”

Magnolia swished the blue liquid inside the bottle and smiled gently. She turned to the young woman and bowed her head slightly.

“I can’t thank you enough for bringing this in time for brunch, Miss Runner. I’m entertaining several of my friends, and I promised them I’d share a glass of this delightful drink with them. I would hate to be made a liar, and they would never let me live it down. Especially Pryde. I know it was somewhat exorbitant to send for, but it is so delicious!”

She gestured at the blue liquid and seemed to realize the young woman had not, at this point, even seen the valuable item she was delivering unwrapped. Magnolia gestured to it lightly.

“The wine, you see? It’s distilled from a very poisonous fruit—the Amentus fruit, I think they call it. So hard to get a hold of, but I did promise! And wouldn’t you know it, but I drank the last glass yesterday. And so I put in my request, and here you are!”

She beamed at the young woman. The young woman said nothing. Her left eye twitched. Magnolia peered at her and went on.

“Please tell the Guild that I’m very happy with their efficiency.”

Nod, nod. The young woman shifted her feet and glanced towards the door. She opened her mouth again, then recited something she’d clearly just remembered.

“Do you have another request?”

It was the traditional response, and Magnolia dithered.

“Well, I suppose—but no, I don’t believe I need—well, at the moment no, but it would be a shame too—no. I suppose not.”

The young woman nodded and began to edge back towards the door. Magnolia was ringing a silver bell, and aproned women and an elderly gentleman were descending the stairs towards their mistress, but when she noticed the young woman leaving, she called out.

“Won’t you stay and have a glass? I would hate to send you on your way without a little reward.”

The City Runner froze, mid-way out the door, and she turned with a hunted expression, clearly hoping she’d done everything. She hesitated, then finally bowed slightly, and begrudgingly, and shook her head.

“…Sorry. I have more deliveries to make.”

Magnolia’s face fell, but she rallied at once.

“Then at least take this gift for your trouble. No, no! I insist.”

She pressed a gold coin into the young woman’s hands. The young woman tried to give it back, but Magnolia wouldn’t hear of it, so she gave up. Ryoka Griffin pocketed the coin, tried to smile, and her lips twitched.

“Um…thanks. Bye.”

She headed out the door as fast as she could. Magnolia Reinhart watched her go, the bottle of Amentus Wine in her hands. She glanced at the faint stains on the carpet, but a [Maid] was already working them out with incredible speed. She sighed and handed the bottle to the [Butler], who spirited it away for later.

Magnolia Reinhart put her hands on her hips, looking a bit amused, a bit defeated. Only now did the rest of her servants move, and the [Maid] with the spectacles came over and leaned against the wall. She folded her arms, and a slight smirk crossed her face.

“Well, that didn’t work out like you hoped. So much for the charming [Lady] beloved by all Runners.”

Magnolia Reinhart rolled her eyes.

“Oh, do shut up, Ressa. You scared her off. Bare feet? Well, I have met her. Now, let’s see about entertaining Pryde, and if she disparages this drink, I shall toss it in her face.”

She turned, sighing, and cast only one last glance at the head of raven-black hair before the young woman was already fleeing back for the open road.



——



The City Runner left the mansion of a house and walked down the street. It turned into a jog as soon as she had enough room, and she moved out of the richer housing and into the common districts. There, she knocked on two more doors and, with much less conversation and a lot more efficiency, handed over a letter and a bag and received two red tokens.

After all, she hadn’t just been carrying Magnolia Reinhart’s delivery alone. That was inefficient—it was just that the [Lady] had top billing.

Her deliveries made, the young woman took care to stow both tokens in the same pouch the silver and sapphire token had gone in. She made sure the pouch was closed as well. It was crucially important that she not lose any of the tokens, or seals as they were known.

Runner Seals. A proof of delivery. Without one of the brightly colored bits of stone, any delivery was suspect. A messenger had to deposit such seals in order to receive their reward, and so they were valuable.

To an extent.

Among the wealthier class of patrons, Runner Seals were a sign of their status and power. Merchants and bankers used lesser gemstones instead of common stone, and the most elite members of society even had their own unique form of Seal to prove delivery beyond a doubt.

Even then, she’d probably have to swear on a truth stone the delivery had gotten to Lady Magnolia. But the Seals were still important proof of the handoff, and Magnolia’s was unique. Anyone without such means had to use the simple cut stone provided by their cities at nominal prices. These were cheap, but also meant that they could be used to prove false deliveries.

Cases of Runners taking goods and providing false Seals happened every year. Thus, trust was just as important with Runners. Their reputation for honesty was a key part of receiving individual contracts, just as much if not more so than their ability to deliver packages quickly.

Street Runners were different from City Runners, though, and in her case, she was more trusted. But you had to keep proving that.

The young woman set off for a different gate than the one she’d come in from. She was tired. Not physically tired, but drained from the effort of interacting. Her pace picked up as she went out the gate, and soon, she was running down a well-worn road that would lead her back to her city. She wanted to make more deliveries today, and so she had to beat the midday rush on requests if she wanted to get any of the profitable ones.

She was a messenger. Or Runner, as they were referred to. Street Runner, City Runner, even Courier were their designations—and a whole host of rude words whenever they ran into someone.

She preferred to think of herself as, simply, a Runner. Because she was a runner, and running was what she loved to do. The deliveries she could take and mostly leave, unless it was the wrong address. Or the deliveree was dead. That had happened once, already.

The point is she was running, and there was a breeze in her face. At a moment like this, she could ignore the fact that she was in another world, or that she had no way to get back, or even that the Goblins were chasing her again. She was running, and she was free.

She was also barefoot.

Her name was Ryoka Griffin, a name which she hated, hence her refusal to really give it out to people. She enjoyed running, not talking to people, and her hobbies included not mentioning her name, running, disappointing her parents, drinking coffee, running, and anti-sociability. She was, currently—

Running.





1.20 R


Every head in the Runner’s Guild turned as the door opened. It was a conditioned response; those who ran were either quick to notice things or they were dead.

Unlike adventurers, Runners didn’t slay monsters, but there were requests posted that weren’t average letter deliveries. Emergency rush jobs, dangerous assignments all went there, and naturally, the Runners who were relaxing between gigs sat at the tables and talked, watching the bulletin board, exchanging interesting tidbits, and listening for hot gossip.

Everything could be sold for a profit, and while there was such a thing as the Runner’s Handbook, some Runners were less upstanding and would crack open a delivery and see if it was worth ‘losing.’

Most were trustworthy, and a Runner’s Guild like this one, in the city of Remendia, was more well-known than the city itself. After all, Runners went everywhere, and so any City Runner in the region—even Couriers—might walk through these doors.

Today, the newcomer was a young woman. Again, not unusual, but she still stood out from the other Runners present. Her skin was a light brown, and her hair was black, reaching down her back in a ponytail. She looked—different.

Drathian, perhaps, was the guess of most, but she stood out around the crowds of fairer skin tones in general and hair that ran from fiery red to brown, and occasionally, more magical colors as well.

Her feet were bare, another departure from the norm. No one ran barefoot. Only a Centaur would be that crazy, and there was only one Centaur in all of the north who was a Runner. At six feet and one inch, the young woman had long, long legs, but they were Human, not equine.

Her eyes were bright green, like green turquoise, dancing with amusement when she was excited or happy. Narrowed and sharply hostile when she was upset. She did not often look happy, but her default expression was of a half-frown, a blank look that clearly said she did not want to talk.

The final notable thing was—or had been—her clothing and the odd, rectangular object and device which sometimes could be seen attached to her ears. It was the oddest thing, a bright red piece of string that looked magical. The same with her clothing, which had been brightly dyed and expensive-looking—until she’d bought some conventional leggings and a simple, off-grey tunic to run in. She shrugged the rucksack she carried onto one shoulder and glanced around as the door swung closed.

Ryoka walked over to a counter on one side of the room, ignoring the appraising looks she received. She waited until the female receptionist at the counter looked up. The woman had a uniform, a green vest over a white undershirt, that made her look like an official attendant. Which she was. She even had a hat with the Runner’s Guild logo on it and the local city’s emblem.

The moment of inspection turned relaxed, despite the appraisal of Ryoka herself. She was one of their own and not a threat. Not that you were supposed to be attacked here, but gossip was the only thing faster than Runners. And for exciting things to break up the humdrum lives of the small towns or cities in this area, you should sit in either the Adventurer’s Guild to see someone taking on a request to slay a monster or enter a dungeon, the Mage’s Guild to hear gossip or events from further around the world relayed by [Message] spells, or the Runner’s Guild, where valuable items or sometimes letters with profound impacts on events were entrusted to the people inside.

You could tell who belonged here, because they were almost always wearing light clothing meant for prolonged travel. They looked fit—they spent most of their day exercising—and they were a kind of unique subset of almost any settlement.

Runners. You could spot them by appearance, just like this ubiquitous building, which was open, flat, with a small second floor devoted to offices and managerial work or private meeting rooms.

A Runner’s Guild could be found in every city of Izril. The bottom floor was where everything was done, and it was dominated by several counters along one side of the room and a kind of bar and meeting space on the other side.

Appropriately, this had once been a tavern, and it still was. Runners, notable by their worn shoes, light clothing, and, usually, athleticism, lounged or stood in groups when they weren’t clustering at the desks.

Ryoka barely looked twice at any of the other Runners, and she didn’t greet anyone by name, but the woman at the desk clearly knew her.

“Good morning, Miss Ryoka.”

The [Receptionist] treated her to a friendly smile. She smiled in a determined way that said she knew she might not get a response. Ryoka nodded back. She did not smile.

“Hi.”

A pause, so infinitesimal, but noticeable, and the [Receptionist] moved forwards.

“It’s a pleasure to see you’re doing well! Do you have any requests to turn in? Magnolia Reinhart’s delivery…?”

Ryoka nodded again.

“Three seals. I got it to her.”

“Very well. I’ll witness your claim.”

The receptionist waited patiently as Ryoka scribbled down her name and listed the seals she’d brought in. She had to write down the composition of each seal. Two red hardwood seals and the expensive silver-sapphire seal.

Each desk had a [Receptionist], a trained man or woman—all Human, here—who would take Runner’s Seals, hand out coins, or head into the back to retrieve a bundle of letters, a wrapped item, and give a Runner instructions on where to go.

There were maps on the far walls showcasing various cities, and often, a pin would be stuck into the worn paper showcasing some natural or monstrous threat. [Bandit] groups, some idiot [Hunter] leaving snares unattended, and so on. Next to those maps was the last fixture of both Runner and Adventurer’s Guilds: a bulletin board made of cork from which delivery requests hung.

But the real paperwork and coordination of information and items was done behind the polished desk counter, and the woman had a ledger out and was jotting down a few notes in moments.

“Wonderful. You were lucky to pick up that delivery for Lady Reinhart. She was pleased, I hope?”

“Yep.”

Ryoka finished writing and slid the paper and quill over to the receptionist. The other woman’s smile flickered, but she added her own signature to the log. She kept speaking, as if trying to coax a longer response out with sheer momentum.

“Most Runners fight over the right to deliver something to her. She pays extra for speed, and of course, she’s been known to tip generously too. You’re all signed out.”

The receptionist waited for a response. She got a silent nod.

“Thanks.”

The [Receptionist] sighed. Someone else gave her a sympathetic look, but only just. A male [Receptionist] had breathed a sigh of relief not to get the surly newcomer at his station. Then again—she was efficient, but he had long since given up even trying for smalltalk.

The City Runner turned away. She began to stride over to the far end of the room—then halted. Reluctantly, she peered over her shoulder. Then she came marching straight back.

A Street Runner, all nerves, fourteen years old, was queueing up for the female [Receptionist]’s attention next, but he backed up as the City Runner marched straight back into spot. The [Receptionist] hesitated.

“Something else, Miss Griffin?”

“Yeah. Goblins. I ran into a small tribe outside of Celum in the tall grass. A Hob, some Goblins. One had a bow. They jumped me, but I got out of it. The Watch knows, but put up a notice.”

Goblins? The Street Runner and a few heads turned at this commonplace threat. That did get the other [Receptionist]’s attention. In a trice, the woman at the counter had a map out and was asking Ryoka to pinpoint the area.

“You escaped a Goblin ambush? And a Hob? Are you sure it was a Hob?”

“He was taller than me, so yeah. Had a sword, shield…decent armor.”

“That’s no good. How did they sneak up on you?”

Ryoka grimaced as if it were a personal failing.

“They were lying in the grass. Leapt up and almost stabbed me. I outran them. I don’t know where they went.”

Some of the Runners inspected Ryoka as she pointed out the location and turned away. She didn’t look frazzled for someone who’d survived a Goblin ambush. Even a small group could kill a City Runner, and she’d outrun them? No emergency alchemy items or Skills?

The [Receptionist] looked approving.

“No wonder you made City Runner so quick! I’ll let the local Runners know to watch out.”

“Eh. They weren’t that fast.”

Ryoka shrugged and stepped back again. She headed over to the large bulletin board with the requests on it, ignoring the stares and murmurs. Ryoka peered at the bits of paper and looked for anything exciting.

Like the Adventurer’s Guilds, the Runner’s Guild used a first-come-first-serve system when it came to giving out delivery requests. It was this board that Ryoka studied intently, ignoring the eyes still boring into the back of her head. She was used to them.

What she wasn’t used to was the loud, cheerful voice that cut through the silence.

“Hey, Ryoka!”

The young woman tensed up. Her head twitched towards the door, but it was too late. Another girl was making a beeline towards her. She was shorter than Ryoka, but wider. Not from fat; rather, she looked sturdy. So sturdy that her pack was three times the size of Ryoka’s, and even without a high-grade bag of holding, she ran ore and heavy deliveries for the Merchant’s Guild on a regular basis.

Garia Strongheart slapped Ryoka on the shoulder. The taller girl’s left eye twitched, but Garia didn’t notice.

“Did you just finish your deliveries to Celum? That’s fast! I normally have a bite to eat in the markets. They do a wonderful cinnamon bun in the mornings, but I guess you already ate, right?”

The taller girl looked over at Garia and gave her a fractional nod. Garia made a show of studying Ryoka’s bare feet; she had good, worn shoes, the closest this world had to sneakers without plastic. Comfortable, shaped leather, undyed but buffed shiny from so much wear.

“Mhm.”

“And you did it barefoot? I thought the others were just playing a prank on me when they said you ran everywhere without shoes.”

Ryoka sighed inaudibly.

“I run everywhere without shoes.”

“Why? Too cheap for them?”

Garia laughed. Ryoka did not. Her voice took on an element of strained patience which Garia noticed.

“I’m just slower with shoes, that’s all.”

Like the [Receptionist], Garia tried. She put on a smile and felt around in one pocket.

“Oh, so it’s a class thing? That makes sense. But is the, uh, [Barefoot Runner] class better than the [Messenger] class?”

Ryoka shrugged. Below the bulletin board’s specific requests were listings of each Runner’s Guild and how many letters or bulk-delivery parcels were waiting. Ryoka did some math, calculating how much she could carry. You could pay for a bulk-delivery to another city, and whichever Runner picked it up would get a smaller fee, but it was reliable work.

The taller girl’s continuing silence and clear disinterest in conversation didn’t bother Garia, at least outwardly. The friendly girl continued to press Ryoka, asking about the road, what dangers she’d encountered, and so on. She got monosyllabic responses if she were lucky. But Garia had a secret weapon today.

“How about a nali-stick, Ryoka? My dad’s a [Farmer]—I told you, remember? He was trying to grow some on his farm, but most didn’t grow well. It’s super sweet. Want some?”

She pulled a thin, pale stalk of something out of her pocket and offered Ryoka a bite. The other young woman hesitated and eyed the unusual food, but she raised a hand.

“Pass.”

Garia looked disappointed and took a bite. Instantly, her eyes went wide with a sugar rush. She missed Ryoka’s vague look of disappointment. The City Runner shifted, and one foot silently kicked the other.

Ryoka went back to studying the requests. Most were generic delivery requests. Unfortunately, they were all spaced out so that it would be hard to do more than a few without running twice as far.

A scrap of paper hiding behind two other requests caught her eye. Ryoka pulled it out and studied it. Then she showed it to Garia.

“What’s the reward for this one?”

Garia looked at the piece of paper and shook her head.

“Oh that? It’s one of the old-style requests. You get them now and then. Someone sends a [Message] that they want a delivery and they promise payment. But we have no idea how much they’re willing to pay and who they want the package delivered to. At least it’s confirmed.”

“Confirmed?”

“That means we can at least prove they’re not [Bandits]. Who’s this one from? Oh. Don’t take this request.”

“Why not?”

Garia had instantly spotted the delivery location, and she tapped it.

“It’s for the High Passes. I know you’re not local to here, but you know the High Passes?”

She pointed to one of the windows and the huge mountain range to the south. Ryoka had seen it; no one could miss it. Garia went on, looking solemn.

“Very nasty place. More Runners have died there than—well, it’s bad. Tons of monsters live around the area. It’s a Gold-rank threat. Or…Named-rank. Even a Courier wouldn’t do that lightly. How much do they want?”

“Hmm. It says the price is ‘to be agreed upon.’ But they’re offering twenty gold just to visit…”

Garia laughed.

“Twenty gold? That’s a fortune for City Runners—and way too little to risk for the High Passes! This has to be a joke. No one lives there. Here—”

She plucked the piece out of Ryoka’s grip and stuck it back under the other requests where it belonged.

“Maybe if we get a famous Courier like Tritel, the Moonlight Rider, he’ll take a look, but otherwise, I bet it’s a prank. Like asking someone to visit the moon.”

Ryoka’s expression didn’t change as her eyes flicked to the buried request, but she nodded. Then she looked elsewhere. Garia picked out another request and showed it to Ryoka.

“How about you and I do this delivery of ore to Pelingor? It would be a long haul, but they’re offering a gold coin for delivery today! Plus the roads are very safe. Whaddya say?”

The other girl studied the notice and eyed the packs waiting against one wall. A valuable delivery was often stored in the back rooms…but the ore samples bound for Pelingor were just light enough that they didn’t warrant a wagon or caravan from the Merchant’s Guild, the slowest method of transit.

Barely light enough. Each one probably weighed fifty pounds. More? They were filled to bursting and were as heavy as they looked.

“I’ll pass.”

“Again?”

Garia looked disappointed. Ryoka shrugged awkwardly.

“I’m not good at running in groups. Or with that much weight.”

“Well, if you’re sure. But we should run together sometime. How about in a few days we do the Tern Road run and deliver the spices to Celers and Remendia?”

Again, Ryoka’s expression didn’t change, but she looked up at the ceiling as she considered Garia’s request.

“Fine.”

Garia beamed and slapped Ryoka on the back. Again, the other girl’s eye twitched.

“Great! I’ll let you know when it comes up.”

“Sure.”

Ryoka selected a piece of paper as Garia turned away. But then the door opened, and she heard Garia call out. This time, her shoulders did hunch, and she closed her eyes in resignation.

“Fals!”

More Runners walked into the guild. Their arrival was greeted with much more enthusiasm and energy than Ryoka’s had been. A few other Runners moved over as the three people who had entered strolled up to the receptionist’s counter and offered her silver seals.

Garia joined the group around the Runners and grinned up at the tallest one. He was a blond, tanned Runner with long legs and a red shirt and long, grey rose leggings that were better quality than the other Runners around him.

A striking look that said he wasn’t as wary about being picked out at a distance as a Runner. For further proof he was capable of defending himself, he also wore two daggers at his belt. Neither one was enchanted, but he’d used them to defend himself more than once. He’d even slain a Creler and claimed the bounty when it jumped him, or so the local rumors went.

“Fals, how’re you doing?”

Fals grinned at Garia and exchanged slaps on the shoulder. He pointed to the other two Runners accompanying him, a young man and a woman.

“We just finished a run to a group of adventurers out near the old ruins. Albez? They bought a bunch of potions and supplies. And tipped well, so we’re going to celebrate.”

Garia sighed enviously.

“And you don’t have a scratch on you.”

“We’re not stupid enough to get near the monsters. I saw a few undead, but we kept well clear of them.”

Fals laughed, and the other Runners laughed with him.

“So why are you here? Going to accept another assignment?”

He shook his head.

“Nah. I’m too tired for that. No, I just wanted to have a word with our newest Runner here.”

He walked over to Ryoka. The other Runners who’d congregated around him fell away, leaving just his two friends and Garia.

“Ryoka, how’re you doing?”

The other girl had finished picking out two requests. She looked up from stowing the deliveries in her backpack.

“Fine.”

Fals waited, but that was it. Garia shifted uncomfortably, and the other two Runners glared at Ryoka. She looked expressionlessly back at them. However, Fals took the lapse in stride.

“Good, good. I was wondering if you needed any advice, what with you being so new. Normally, most Runners begin as Street Runners first. But you impressed the Guildmaster so much you made City Runner in two weeks. It was that or you’d run the rest of the Street Runners out of business!”

Ryoka shrugged. Again, Fals broke the silence before it grew too onerous.

“Well, I noticed you took Magnolia’s request this morning. It’s a good run, isn’t it?”

“There were a few Goblins on the road.”

“Right, right.”

Fals scratched his head and shifted uncomfortably. Ryoka finished tying her pack closed and hoisted it onto her shoulders. She looked at him expectantly.

“The thing is, it’s a really good delivery. It pays well, it’s safe—well, mostly safe—and Runners like Magnolia. She tips well and shares her deliveries.”

Garia grinned.

“She once gave me a few treats she imported from overseas. They were frozen bits of fruit and sugar. Tasted amazing.”

Fals nodded knowingly.

“Exactly. We all like her. I know she wanted someone to deliver that blue drink she likes so much. Did she share any with you?”

Ryoka shook her head.

“I wasn’t interested.”

This time, she definitely got a glare from every Runner in earshot. Fals shifted again. He lifted a hand and glanced around, smiling peaceably, and stepped closer to Ryoka. She, accordingly, stepped back, but the other Runners turned away as Fals spoke a touch more seriously.

“Right, well, it would just be best if you let another Runner take the request next time. Not that you don’t have a right to it—it’s just that we like to share the request. Give others a chance to take it easy, okay?”

He gave her a smile which went unreturned. Garia eyed Ryoka nervously. Ryoka stared at Fals expressionlessly and then nodded.

“Got it.”

The two other Runners accompanying Fals shifted on their feet. They looked at Ryoka with a lot more hostility than Fals and Garia. For his part, Fals nodded and gave Ryoka another friendly smile.

“Just so you know. Good luck on your run! Let’s have a drink next time, alright?”

Fals and the other Runners walked away. Ryoka watched them go. Her face betrayed no emotion, but Garia saw her hand go up and tug at one ear. She made a vexed expression—until she noticed Garia staring at her. Then she turned hurriedly and strode for the door. She glanced back once at Garia and nodded.

“See ya.”



——



What was the receptionist’s name? It’s still bugging me. I think it started with an ‘S’. Or was it a ‘Y’? No. I’m sure it was an ‘S’.

Either way, at least that’s done with. And now I can get out of the city and away from annoying people*.

I feel a lot better as I jog out of the city gates. Running calms me down. And I need some calming down after having to deal with idiots**.



*Everyone

**Almost everyone.



Okay, okay, calm down. I adjust my pace as I sprint out of the city gates. People are staring. Not that it matters too much, but I don’t want to waste my energy running too fast right now.

Destination: Wales. It’s about thirty miles away, which makes it one of the furthest cities to travel to. I’ll get over there in a few hours and then jog over to its neighbor, Ocre. Or whatever it’s called. But I’ll stay the night in Wales since it’s bigger and has better inns.

There’s a Runner’s Guild in Wales. There’s one in almost every big city, so I can receive more requests wherever I go. That’s handy, and it means I don’t have to come back here and deal with the annoying Runners around here.

Then again, they all do city-to-city deliveries as well, so I tend to run into all of them sooner or later. It’s a pain.

Well, Garia isn’t a pain. She’s just too friendly. But she’s the best of them. The rest of the City Runners can go to hell. Especially Fals.

City Runners. From what I understand of these Runners, they’re like postmen. Or postwomen. Whichever. But you can divide them into roughly three categories. There are the Street Runners, the City Runners, and the Couriers.

Street Runners cover individual cities and don’t stray outside of them very far. They take the safest, easiest jobs and receive the least amount of money. They also seem like they’re not that high in the social hierarchy in the Runner’s Guild. They’re the youngest or the oldest, and that’s about all I know.

City Runners are what I guess I fall into. They—we run from city to city and make deliveries in a general area. A City Runner might run for a few days if they have to make a really long delivery, but they won’t stray from their ‘territory’*. They take on the more dangerous jobs, but again, they’re not adventurers, so a City Runner mainly runs away from any trouble and tries to make their deliveries as quickly as possible.



*Territory. What are we, dogs? But apparently we are, with all the little groups and infighting the Runners seem to do. It’s a mess of politics and friendships in each Runner’s Guild.



Then there’s Couriers. I haven’t personally met one, but I hear they’re the equivalent of long-distance mail. They can go from one end of the continent to the other or even across the sea, if their delivery calls for it. They’re quick, efficient, and apparently they cost incredible amounts of money to hire. But they’re also supposed to be really good at their jobs.

I want to be one. If only because they don’t have a clique and they make their own rules.

From what Garia told me, each one is at least Level 30, and they all have levels in other classes as well, so they’re not easy to ambush. And that’s…

I look around as I run. I’m going down one of the main roads, but it’s empty at the moment. Still, I jog off the road and into the short grass. It’s not like I’ll go much slower out here. I wait until I’m a ways away from the road before I shout.

“That’s so stupid!”

Well, it’s not much of a shout. It’s hard to shout and breathe at the same time, and it feels really awkward to talk to myself. Who does that? Anyways, I’m still not over it.

Levels. It’s one of the weirdest things about this world, and this is a weird world. It’s like a game, but it’s not a game. At least, there’s no evil demon lord or end of the world coming, and I’m no hero from another planet summoned to defend this place from evil.

I’m a girl from California. I should be a freshman in college in New York, and I was running barefoot around the track on my first day when I ended up here. One second I was doing a lap, the next, I ended up in this crazy place with my iPhone, my wallet, and my watch. Some might call this destiny or fate. I think it was a mistake.

I’m no hero, but this place is exactly like a video game. Or, failing that, a fantasy book. Something out of Tolkien’s Lord of the Rings, except the cities I’ve visited don’t have any Elves or Dwarves. In fact, they don’t even have many Humans with skin darker than tan. I’m practically an outsider because I look Asian. Not that this is the most homogenous place ever*, but I still stand out.



*Thankfully. But it seems like this continent’s equivalent to Europe? Europe with hints of globalization, but I’ve been told I’d ‘fit in’ more on another continent. By Persua, predictably.



Back to the road. It’s not good to stray too far from it, I guess. I hate having to dodge around wagons and listen to every idiot I meet shout at me about my bare feet. But it beats Goblins, I guess.

Barely.

Anyways, what was I thinking about? Oh yeah. This is a stupid world. A really stupid one, and the worst part is that it’s just like the one I left.

Fals. He was hinting—no, he was telling me not to take any more of the good delivery requests. And judging by the crowd back in there, they all think the same way. Did they nominate him to ‘warn’ me? Of course they did.

Politics. No one takes all the good deliveries or we’ll make life tough for you, huh? And this Fals is their…what? He’s popular, I know.

I grit my teeth. I don’t like him. He’s always giving me advice, usually about things I should or shouldn’t do. And since he’s a senior Runner, he’s got some kind of priority with deliveries and everything else. I really hate running into him in the guilds.

Already. It’s only been two weeks and a bit*, but I’ve gotten used to this world, at least a bit. You really can get used to anything. But I’ve never liked social climbing, and it feels like half of being a Runner is doing just that.



*Has it really only been that long? It feels…so much longer.



I hate Fals. I run into him too much. And now, I’ve got to run with Garia, dragging a massive backpack thirty miles for terrible pay. Why did I agree to run with her? Because it was too hard to say no.

Damn. Damn me, damn her, and Fals can…there’s not enough damnation around here for him. I hate all of this. Just let me run in peace.

So I run. Keep running. I increase my pace, and my thoughts flow out of my head. That’s better.

Things come and go, but at least I can run. Ironically, in this world, I can run even more since it’s now my job. That’s the only good thing about my predicament. The only good thing.

Well, that and one more little fact. I grin as I remember, and a wagon driver gives me a weird look as I run past him.

This world has a bunch of Runners. And they’re okay. They really are. They run far, and the ones like Garia are tough and strong enough to run with huge bags on their back for quite a long way. But you know what? Maybe it’s their diets. Or maybe they don’t know about proper hydration, running form, or—

The point is, they’re okay. But they’ve got nothing on a girl who earned a scholarship for track and field. At least—the low-level ones don’t. The high-level ones with Skills?

I’ve yet to meet one that can beat me so far.

I take off, and the miles flow behind me like rain. I may not be a social runner or even liked. At all. But I’m pretty sure that I’m one of the fastest.



——



It’s a long run. But I get it done with and enter Wales just as the sun’s turning the sky orange. Two deliveries. One here, and the other in that other city. Ocres? Whatever.

I take care of it and then turn in my seals at the local Runner’s Guild. Here I get more silent stares, but that’s fine. Keep the poker face up, turn in the seals, and leave.

That done, I find an inn. Hm. The first one I go to advertises bed and board for three silver coins. It’s pricy, but I’ve earned over thirty silver today. I’ll treat myself.

If you’ve got the motivation and you don’t die from being shanked by a Goblin hiding in the grass, a City Runner can make good money. True, a large part of my earnings was from that Magnolia request, but I still earn more than most people. Or so I gather.

The average worker makes about 3-4 silver coins* per day. But that’s a pittance compared to what merchants or shopkeepers can bring in. Even taking away their daily expenses, they probably earn upwards of twenty silver coins each day. And that’s small change compared to the money adventurers can make.



*Local currencies differ from city to city or by region. It’s still gold, silver, and copper, but some denominations have a unique weight and percentage of actual silver or gold used in each coin. Those who deal with money a lot care about the currency, but they’re all roughly silver, gold, and copper coins.



The famous adventurers. Heroes. People who can slice, dice, and blast things apart. I think about them as I soak in one of the public bathhouses. It feels great, but what was I—oh, right.

Adventurers. They don’t exactly look like the flashy characters with insane armor and gigantic swords you see in video games. Mainly, they look like medieval soldiers. At least, the low-level ones do. Again, Garia tells me the high-level ones look really impressive, but I’ve yet to meet one of those.

And why am I thinking of adventurers? And where’s the towel? And is that bath attendant giving me a dirty look?

Oh, right. Because of my feet. Hey, they’re dirty but probably less dirty than other people’s disgusting body parts. Leave a tip? I guess.

Back to the thinking. Adventurers? Yeah, they’re like…starving artists? They don’t earn much from hunting monsters, but the ones who survive their raids on dungeons or old ruins can earn unimaginable amounts of wealth in an instant. I guess it’s appealing for people who think they’ll survive. Not me, thanks. I’ve heard what Goblins do with people, and they’re the weakest monsters around.

So, if adventurers represent the top earners, Runners fall somewhere around the mid-categories. It’s a dangerous job, but not nearly as dangerous as fighting monsters.

Why do I care? Oh, right, money. I’ve got enough.

Back to the inn. I’m tired, but my mind is still racing. It’s been how many hours? I’m still annoyed by those idiots back in the Runner’s Guild. And Garia. I’m more annoyed than mad at her, but—

She’s so fascinated by me. Why? Because I look foreign? Or is it me running barefoot? It’s not common even in fantasy worlds, I guess. At least she’s polite about it.

Damnit, I wanted to try that nali-stick. But then I’d have had to get her a present or something—better not to. Was it just sugarcane? Do they have sugar in this world?

Back to the inn. Time for a meal. Let’s eat and think. What kind of meal? Chicken. I could go for chicken and mashed potatoes. It tastes good, especially since I’m hungry. But focus. Is that guy staring at my breasts? Yes. I hate you, random stranger.

Ignore him. Eat chicken. Gravy goes on top of potatoes. Think.

Let’s go over it again. Priorities. First and most important? Money to live on. Right now, I’m earning enough for a room at an inn and regular meals, but keep saving.

Second, I need more information. Libraries don’t exist around here, or at least, they aren’t open for the public. I need maps, but I also need a book on the cities around here. History, culture—I need a local. Can’t ask them too much, or they’ll get suspicious. Put that one on the backburner.

Next? Um. Equipment. The job I’ve got is pretty much the only one I can do. Alternatives? I could be a scribe…if my handwriting were better. But being able to write more than my name is helpful. Too bad it’s not too useful.

Focus. Equipment. There’s magical items on sale in the markets. Not many—and they’re expensive. But Runners have different kinds of enchanted items. I want one. But I’m still trying to earn enough money to buy a good healing potion for emergencies. That has to be the first priority.

Meal’s done. Do I leave the plate or…? Hm. Let’s see. Looks like they’re leaving plates. And the innkeeper puts it on my tab…? Yeah. I’ll pay it tomorrow.

Back up to my room, away from prying eyes and people who want to sit and have a drink with me. I’m not against drinking*, but I really don’t need to deal with lonely men right now.



*Well, I am if it’s alcohol.



My bed’s pretty good this time. You definitely get what you pay for. I guess I’ll spend at least two silver coins on my inn from now on. It’s expensive, but it beats a bad bed.

Hm. Final check before I have to sleep. Fals? Hate him. Got to run with Garia sometime. Get it over with. Using money for…healing potion. And then equipment. Right.

I know what to do tomorrow. I’ll go to the Runner’s Guild first thing and get some good, high-paying requests. Save up, buy that healing potion. But something else nags me as I lie in the bed with a feather poking the back of my head.

Here’s the problem. And it’s a big one. I have no idea what to do next. Not ‘next’ as in tomorrow, but ‘next’ as in what I should be aiming for in the future. I can earn enough money to live off of, but what’s my end goal? To live and die here? Or to return home? And how in the blue blazes* am I going to do that?



*Where does that quote come from? No, focus. Focus.



When I run, I can keep the doubts from floating about in my head. But when I stop and when I’m about to sleep, I feel them crawling back up from the depths.

Uncertainty. I still don’t know why I’m here, what magic or fate brought me to this place, or even what to do next. I earn money and I keep it, but I don’t know what to do with it. I run and run, and someday I’ll run into something nasty. This world is full of monsters, and I don’t know what to do.

Still, I can’t worry about it now. I have to sleep. If I’m tired or I oversleep tomorrow, I’ll miss the good deliveries.

I close my eyes. Time to sleep. My mind is racing, but at least my body’s tired. I’m drifting off on my mattress. It’s not that much different from my one back at home to be honest. Maybe more lumpy and less comfortable as a whole, but it will do. And I’m so tired.

Damn. I forgot. Before I sleep. Concentrate. Block out the messages—



[Barefoot Runner Class Ob—]

[Barefoot Runner Le—]

[Skill: Runner’s—]

[Ski—]



I hate having to do that every night.





1.21


The inn. A place for questing adventurers, drinking, solace, and even temporary, messy love. Or just lust. In any good tavern, you can find at least one mysterious figure in the shadows ready to spout off cryptic messages of doom. No pub worthy of the name wouldn’t have the potential for indiscriminate violence simmering in the air, either.

Inns attract crowds. Thus, an innkeeper must be constantly busy. It’s a demanding job that often requires more than one barmaid or bartender—barboy being a seldom-used term that only dictionary aficionados employ.

Erin Solstice sat in her inn and waited for the crowds to come pouring through the door. Any second now. She’d be fighting them off with burning oil and kitchen knives. Any moment. They were probably just waiting until nightfall.



——



Two nights later, Erin had to concede that being an innkeeper was harder than it looked. And it looked really hard.

“What good is owning an inn without customers?”

Erin sighed and leaned back in her chair. She eyed the gleaming wooden floor and stout wooden door and wondered whether it was worth cleaning them again. But no, she’d dusted and polished every available surface, and she had enough food in the kitchen for a small army.

What she didn’t have was money or people willing to spend money. And it occurred to her, belatedly, that if you had food, there was a definite time limit on how long you had until it went bad—and then you’d wasted your money.

“Two days.”

Erin put her head in her hands glumly. Two days since she’d painted her sign and named the inn. Two days, and her only customers were the three terrors that plagued her waking nightmares.

Relc, Klbkch, and Pisces. They were all horrible customers. Each one was fine on his own—well, Pisces was annoying no matter what—but as patrons, they had extremely objectionable flaws. Even Klbkch.

Especially Klbkch.

It wasn’t that they were annoying, per se, but…no, they were annoying. Erin gritted her teeth. She wished the Goblins would stop by for a change of pace. At least they were clean, quiet, and finished everything on their plate.

Well, Relc always finished everything on his plate. So did the other two, but in Relc’s case, he tended to spread the contents of his plate on the table and the floor. How hard was it to use a knife and fork?

And the one who did use a knife and fork never paid for anything. Ever. Erin felt like she was running a soup kitchen every time she fed Pisces.

As for Klbkch, that…that…

“That lying, pasta-eating, snake-ant jerk!”

Erin slapped the table. She was especially mad at him. How could he betray her expectations like that?

She’d been happy to feed him pasta all night long. Happy that was, until Pisces and Relc told her that Antinium couldn’t handle bread or pasta that well. They were all naturally gluten-intolerant. Eating pasta was about as fun for Klbkch as poking his tongue with a knife. If he had a tongue.

Pasta wasn’t technically poison for him, but it made Klbkch lethargic and did nasty things to his digestion. Either way, he’d clearly been buying and eating her food just to support her.

The nerve. The gall of that bug. Ants were bugs, right?

When she’d found out about Klbkch’s aversion to pasta, she’d gotten into a huge fight with him. Or rather, she’d gotten mad and he’d apologized repeatedly. Ever since then, Erin had let him buy blue fruit juice or blue fruits, but no more pasta. The trouble with that was that Erin lost out on one of her major sources of income, as Relc visited every other day and Pisces came by too frequently.

“Another night without customers.”

Erin groaned to herself as she stared at her inn. Then she got up, found a mug, and mechanically wiped it with a clean piece of cloth. Not because it was dirty; it just felt like an innkeeper-y thing to do. And she was bored.

“What I wouldn’t give for one customer.”

Two tables over, Pisces looked up from his bowl of onion and sausage soup.

“I am right here, you know.”

Erin glared at him. Pisces was, as always, camped at his table, which meant that he somehow occupied the entire table. Not that he stretched out or lay across multiple chairs, but he seemed to occupy too much space.

His stained ‘white’ robes had left another trail of detritus when he’d come in, and he’d actually removed one of his worn boots to inspect a sock with holes in it. Erin stared at a pale, pink toe and then at Pisces. He waggled the toe at her along with one eyebrow and had the nerve to look offended.

“I meant a paying, nice customer.”

The young man sniffed and drank the last dregs from his bowl. The one positive aspect about the mage—if you could call it that—was that he ate like a starving wolverine.

“I believe there is a lovely tradition known as a ‘tab.’ Rest assured, I will make sufficient payment to you in time, good mistress. Although, I must say you could stand to improve the variety of your dishes. Pasta and soup are all very well, but I trust you do know there are other types of food in the world?”

Erin ground her teeth together. She pointed at the door.

“Out.”

Pisces stood with offended dignity and brushed off his dirty robe. He offered Erin a bow that was sardonic without being offensive enough for a thumping.

“Your soup was most adequate. However, I would advise you to add more seasonings to combat the bland taste.”

Erin opened her mouth, but he was already halfway out the door. She watched it close…but not all the way. The door hung about a foot open as Pisces ambled off. This time, Erin punched the table.

After she’d closed and bolted the new door Klbkch had helped her install, Erin tasted the cold soup and made a face. She stomped over to her shelves and looked for a bag of salt.

Cooking was harder than it looked. And sadly, while Erin could make several dishes thanks to her Skill, there wasn’t really any point if no one but Pisces was going to eat it. Today, she’d tried out soup, and she had half a pot still sitting in the kitchen. She’d have to wait for Relc to come by tomorrow to finish it all.

Erin sighed and sat down at her table. It was her favorite table, the second one near the bar. It was in the best condition, and she would nap with her head resting on the table or in the kitchen, on the floor. True, she could have built a more formal sleeping spot or done something about the second floor, but she was out of money for things like mattresses and pillows. For now, she slept. Her life wasn’t bad. She’d survived Goblins and actually started running a business. She just wished—

She just wished things would start going her way.



——



The next day Erin woke up, she woke up tired. Very tired. And that was strange, because Erin had gotten a good night’s sleep. Or so she’d thought.

As Erin shifted to get up, she felt uncomfortable. She looked down at her clothes. She was wearing a variation of a t-shirt and pants she’d custom-ordered from one of the Gnolls that Krshia had introduced her to.

Most Drakes went for an ancient-Greek-style toga or robe look, and their clothes were long and free-flowing. Some of them wore sarongs, but Erin was pretty sure it was only the females.

On the other hand, Gnolls wore minimal attire, usually just enough to cover their furry parts, which weren’t visible in the first place. And while Erin was fine with that look, she wasn’t too keen on wearing just a thong and breast band in public. Hence, her clothes.

The fabric was a rougher, sturdier type of cloth than Erin would have liked, but it wasn’t that uncomfortable. She’d slept in it fine just the other day. So why was it suddenly rubbing against her down…there…?

Erin looked down and began praying under her breath. She closed her eyes. Did she have to go to the bathroom? No. Nope. Not at all. So then why was she leaking…?

“Oh. My. God. This is not okay!”

The wetness in the crotch of her pants spread even as Erin looked down. She began to swear even as she jumped up and ran for some clean clothes. It couldn’t be happening. But it was. How had she forgotten?

Her period. She was on her damn period.

The entire moment came as a huge shock to Erin. Not her monthlies. Rather—that she had missed the signs. She didn’t have the most dramatic signals, but Erin could normally count down the days in her head even if she didn’t keep exact track, and she could tell when her body was about to argue with her.

…Normally. But Erin had missed any normal signs in the stress and trauma of fighting for her life. Which meant she was also completely flat-footed because—she had to be honest—

This was not a problem she equated with living in a world of magic and monsters. Of all the things to deal with—!

Erin went to the shopping bag where she’d neatly stored many of the items she’d bought and began tearing through it, tossing items aside. Towels. She had to have towels somewhere in here.

There. Erin grabbed them and a fresh pair of pants. She walked back into the common room and hesitated. Like hell she was going to change in here or in the kitchen. She went upstairs.

As Erin switched her pants and wiped away the mess, she wondered what cruel twist of fate had dumped her in this fantasy world—yet still gave her the miracle of life every month.

“I’ve never heard of video game characters dealing with this! How do you expect Lara Croft to climb mountains with a giant frickin’ diaper in her pants? I’d love to see Leia fighting stormtroopers on her cycle!”

Erin slammed downstairs and threw her pants and the bloody towel on the ground. The other one she took to the kitchen and cut in half. Then she shoved it down her pants.

“Rough.”

The towels were not meant for use in the way she was using them. Erin shuddered. This was a nightmare. She had to get relief. And by relief, she meant tampons.

And that was another chilling thought, because Erin was pretty sure tampons never existed in medieval times. But—they had pads, right? Women existed back in the Dark Ages, even if they were oppressed. And Liscor wasn’t that primitive. So they had to have pads. They had to.

“Please, God, if you’re there. Or the Buddha. I’ll pray to anyone. Just please don’t make me wear a diaper.”

She wasn’t even sure if they had diapers. She hadn’t seen many baby Drakes while walking in the city, and they stayed away from the scary Human in any case.

Erin went for the door and hesitated. She felt like she was wearing a scratchy diaper, but it couldn’t be helped. She felt at her pocket and then went to her discarded pants and pulled out a very thin coin pouch. She didn’t have much money, but it was probably enough.

Her bloody pants and towel were another issue. Erin stared at them and then kicked them under the table. Then she opened the door and slammed it behind her. Her temper was already bad when she left her inn.

After the forty minutes it took to get to Liscor at a quick pace, Erin’s mood had gone from bad to thunderous. The towel in her pants chafed. And her period was heavy. She wanted to kill everything. And that was before she tripped on a rock.



——



Erin marched into Liscor through the eastern gates. Actually, she stormed through the gates. In actual fact, she practically charged through them.

The Drake on duty, the same yellow one she’d seen several times before, opened his mouth to make a snippy comment. Erin stared at him as she went past. He shut up.



——



Another obstacle got in her way before she got to the market street. Olesm appeared out of nowhere, holding a box in his scaly hands.

“Good day, Miss Solstice. What a coincidence running into you here.”

Erin gritted her teeth. Her abdomen was cramping up. This was a bad one.

“Not now, Olesm.”

He ducked his head, but kept pace with her.

“I understand this might be a bad moment, but I was wondering if you would be free later to play a game of—”

Erin turned her head as she stomped past him. Olesm swallowed the words he’d been about to say. She left him behind and kept moving down the street. Some Gnolls snarled at her when she walked in front of them. This time, she snarled back.



——



“Pads.”

Krshia Silverfang looked up from her pile of copper and silver coins. She sniffed the air, frowned, and glanced up. Just like before, she was operating her stall in a new part of Market Street.

Erin had caught her setting up in the morning; the Gnoll woman was carefully laying out gemstone brooches made of silver on some fine cloth, like a jeweler. She smiled, but Erin was in no mood for pleasantries.

“Yes, Erin Solstice?”

Erin took a deep breath. She couldn’t get mad. Not now, when her goal was so close.

“Pads. I want to buy pads. Or tampons, if you guys actually have those.”

The Gnoll shopkeeper was sitting down, but her head was almost higher than Erin’s. She blinked at Erin.

“What are these pads you speak of? Are they bandages?”

She sniffed the air again, and Erin’s blood froze. She felt the earth beneath her begin to open and a choir of undead hands reach up to pull her into the fiery pits of hell.

“Please tell me you’re joking.”

Bits of fur flew into the air as Krshia shook her head.

“Apologies. It is shedding season. Why are you so concerned, Erin Solstice? And—have you cut yourself? Hrr. It’s not the same as a wound, though? Strange.”

A third time she sniffed, and Erin realized—she was smelling—the young woman turned crimson. Erin leaned forwards and whispered loudly to Krshia.

“I’m bleeding. I need pads. Cloth pads, now.”

“Bleeding? Where?”

Maybe the Gnoll really was messing with her, or she didn’t have the same sense of public decency Erin did. Either way, Erin leaned forwards and whispered the location and issue in Krshia’s ear.

The Gnoll shrugged.

“Is it not fine?”

Erin gaped at her. Krshia scratched the fur around her neck, looking unconcerned.

“It is only liquid, yes? And all who smell you will know either way. Why waste good cloth?”

Erin stared at her. Krshia stopped scratching.

“What?”

“Are you messing with me? Because if you are, I’m not in the mood for it.”

“I would not tease a young one like you when you stink of sweat and blood.”

Krshia looked mildly offended. Erin rubbed at her eyes and crossed her legs.

“Sorry. It’s just—you can smell that? Seriously? No, don’t tell me. I really don’t want to know. Don’t Gnolls have periods too?”

The Gnoll in question tilted her head slightly and made a confused face.

“Periods?”

“The menstrual cycle. You know, that time of the month when you donate blood. When Aunt Flo comes to town. Shark week. The Crimson Tide. Parting the Red Sea!”

Krshia blinked at her. Erin felt her voice growing louder.

“You know! Riding the cotton pony! It’s that thing ladies have! The waterfalls of hell! The blood baptism! The get-out-of-swim-class card! The proof of womanhood! The part of the month where blood comes out of your—”



——



Erin squatted on the ground, head buried in her arms. The other shoppers stared at her. The other shopkeepers stared at her. Half of them looked sympathetic. The other half looked disgusted. The children were torn between impressed and horrified.

She had screamed a very vivid description out loud to a crowded street. Mostly because neither Krshia nor the Drakes nor anyone else had seemed to get the most basic part of biology for a young woman. For the guys, that was to be expected, but Drakes and Gnolls?

A heavy, furry hand patted Erin on the shoulder. Erin looked up as Krshia stepped around her counter and smiled gently down at her. The Gnoll woman hmmed and chose her words carefully.

“Humans have very strange bodies, yes?”

“…Yes.”

Erin really hadn’t meant to shout.

“I really didn’t mean to shout.”

“It is nothing.”

Krshia flicked her fingers dismissively. She glanced at the other people on Market Street. Erin looked up and saw Lism gagging at his stall. Krshia gave him a dismissive glance.

“Shouting is good. Almost as good as howling, but we are forbidden to do that unless it is a full moon. But I am sorry. Gnolls do not have your periods, nor do we let our blood each month.”

“So you don’t have anything like that?”

The Gnoll paused. She tapped her lips with one finger and nodded.

“The blood. It is for mating, yes? We do have a similar time. All those who still are able to bear children, we go into a heat. It is called estrus, but it happens only once or twice a year. It is the time when we mate.”

Erin looked up at her.

“Does it hurt?”

Krshia scratched one ear and shook her head. More fur flew into the air.

“It is enjoyable. Some look forwards to it. It is a time to have sex and to bear children, and so we are happy when it comes to us. There are issues—monthly bleeding is not one of them.”

Erin pointed a shaking finger at Krshia.

“I hate you so much right now I can’t even explain.”

The Gnoll grinned at her, but without any malice.

“I am sorry for your plight. But I have no smooth cloths. But I do have these. These are wool; not finely woven, but strong. Would you like a few?”

Erin looked at the rough fabric offered to her and shuddered.

“Do you have any idea—no. Just please, please tell me there’s someone who sells what I need in the city.”

Again, Krshia scratched her head. Erin wondered if she had fleas.

“Hm. No.”

“No?”

“We Gnolls need no padding. And the Drake folk and Antinium, they need none either. Humans are rare here, so I would not think any padding you wish for exists in any store.”

The blood drained from Erin’s face. She stared open-mouthed at the shopkeeper, who looked concerned at her expression.

“Is it so bad?”

“I—I’m going to die.”

“Not from so little blood, I think. But I have a thought.”

Erin latched onto the ray of hope instantly.

“Yes? Tell me. What’s your thought?”

“The Adventurer’s Guild. They have bandages. Many bandages. If you cannot stop this blood, they would be able to help more than I. And bandages are soft, yes?”

“Yes—yes they are.”

Erin was on her feet in an instant. She waddled away from the Gnoll and then stopped.

“Thanks. I, uh, gotta go. See you later.”

Bemused, the Gnoll watched Erin waddle awkwardly out of sight. She looked at a female Drake who was passing by her shop. She bared her teeth in a grin.

“Humans, eh?”



——



The cool wood counter of the reception desk in the Adventurer’s Guild felt good on Erin’s head. She rested her head there and wished she didn’t have to deal with the world.

“So you really have blood coming from down there? And it happens every month?”

“Yes.”

“That’s so weird.”

Erin groaned. She looked up at Selys, the helpful receptionist. She’d been grateful to find the female Drake was working today, but she really, really couldn’t deal with her innocent curiosity.

“I know. Everyone keeps telling me that. But please, do you have bandages? Thin, soft fabric?”

Selys nodded and pulled a drawer out. She fished out a roll of thin, white fabric and showed it to Erin.

“We’ve got lots, just in case there’s an emergency. How much do you need?”

“Lots.”

Erin said it glumly as she fished out her meager ration of coins. She tried to calculate how many rolls of bandages she’d need and how she’d turn them into a pad. She needed to buy food—but this was more important.

“I’m going to need enough for a week, maybe. And I need to use the bandages to make a pad. You know, to cover the area. And I change pads every few hours sometimes, so…”

Drakes didn’t have eyebrows, so Selys couldn’t raise them. But she widened her eyes and flicked her long tongue out.

“That’s expensive. And gross. Sorry, Erin, but I’m not sure you’ll have enough money for that. Bandages are cheap, but you’ll be using a lot if what you say is true. Again. Gross.”

“Tell me about it. On bad days back home, I used to use a ton of pads each day before I switched to tampons. And let me tell you, that was a psychological shift as well.”

Selys looked blank. Erin waved her hand. She wasn’t about to open that can of worms.

“Well, back on the topic of pads…why not make a few that you can re-use more than once?”

Erin looked up at Selys.

“What?”

“Well, doesn’t that make sense? If you’re going to make these pads dirty, why not rewash them rather than keep throwing them away like the ones you talk about.”

As she opened her mouth to reply, Erin’s brain froze. She tried to think of a response but she didn’t have any good one.

“Um. Uh, that’s—that’s actually a good idea. I heard they did that in developing countries but—okay. Okay, yeah. It’s gross, but yeah. How would I get one of those made?”

Selys smiled at Erin. There were still too many pointy teeth in the smile, but Erin was getting used to it.

“I’ve stitched up more than a few adventurers right here. I can make a few of these pads quite quickly if you want me to. I’ve got the Skill [Fast Stitching], so it won’t take more than a few minutes.”

Erin leaned across the counter and seized Selys by the clawed hand. The receptionist blinked at her in surprise.

“Oh, thank you, thank you, thank you.”

“It’s nothing. Really. I’ll start on this pad right away. How should it look?”

“Um. Sort of like this.”

Erin showed Selys as the other Drake hmmed and began layering the cloth bandage together. They’d just finished the basic design and Erin had opened her coin pouch when she heard a familiar growl from behind her.

Selys gulped, but Erin scowled. She turned around and looked up into the face of an irritated male Gnoll.

“Human. You still stink.”

“I’m not talking to you. Go away.”

He blinked at her, but Erin was already turning back to Selys. She felt a rough hand spin her around, and she nearly dropped her money. She narrowed her eyes up at the Gnoll.

“You stink of blood. I warned you last time—leave this place now.”

Erin felt her teeth grinding together. She clenched her jaw and looked up at the Gnoll. He was big and scary, but she was also pretty sure he wasn’t allowed to hit her. And even if he were, she was in a really bad mood. Unbidden, the thought occurred to her that she’d never figured out what [Bar Fighting] actually did.

“Do I look like I’m in the mood to be bullied?”

The male Gnoll growled at her. Erin stared at him. She didn’t blink. She was really cramping up down below now, and the trickling sensation was not making anything better.

Her gaze locked with the Gnoll’s for a solid minute. He was looming over her, doing the classic male intimidation move. She was too angry and sore to care.

After another minute, the Gnoll’s ears suddenly flattened for a second. He whirled and walked away. Erin flipped him off with one hand and then turned back to Selys.

“Sorry. Where were we?”

The female Drake was staring at Erin with an open mouth. Erin stared back at her and then flashed a smile.

“Bully me once, shame on you. Bully me twice—I get mean. And violent.”

“I can see that. But I would have known it anyways. Terbore might growl at you, but we all heard about how you killed that Goblin Chieftain by yourself. That was some story.”

Erin’s smile slipped for a fraction of a second.

“Oh. Someone told you about that?”

“Oh yes.”

Selys nodded as she began stitching the bandages together with needle and thread. The claws that held the long needle flashed back and forth across the fabric at mesmerizing speed.

“Klbkch had to turn in the Goblin Chieftain’s head here. We all heard about how you killed it. That’s amazing, by the way—Klb says you don’t even have any levels in a fighting class. How’d you do it?”

“Um. I burned his face off.”

“Oh, are you a [Mage] then? I saw a Human one in town the other day, but apparently he’s a troublemaker and a thief.”

“No, no. I’m no mage. It’s just—I used a trick. And I nearly died. I bet Klbkch didn’t mention that.”

“He said you were wounded. Was it bad?”

“Very. He gave me a healing potion. Without that, I would have been a goner.”

Her hands paused in stitching as Selys stared at Erin.

“He gave you his Senior Guardsman’s healing potion? But that’s expensive. You must have been badly injured if Klbkch gave you his potion.”

Erin shifted nervously.

“Are they—are they expensive? Those potions, I mean.”

“Very. At least, the ones I know the Watch issues to Senior Guardsmen.”

Selys nodded. She named the price, and it was Erin’s turn to gape.

“Well, it’s important that the Watch carries them in case someone gets hurt. They’re not supposed to use them unless someone’s really hurt, though. Like…citizens. And the potions the Senior Guardsmen carry are even stronger. They can heal most big injuries in a moment. Unless you lose an arm or a body part, you’ll be fine in moments.”

“Yeah. They are good.”

Erin poked at her stomach reflexively. She sighed. Another mark on her debt to Klbkch.

“I’m just glad it was only a Goblin Chieftain. If the rest of the Goblins had come after me, I would have been dead.”

“Oh, if it had been a Goblin raiding party, we’d have sent out the entire Watch to deal with them. I just don’t understand why a Chieftain would come after you. It doesn’t make sense.”

Erin blinked.

“A Goblin what now?”

“A Goblin raid. Haven’t you heard of them?”

“Uh. No…no I have not. We don’t have many Goblins where I come from.”

Selys sighed enviously as she finished the first pad and slid it over to Erin. The other girl felt at the soft fabric and smiled happily. Selys leaned over the counter, looking serious.

“You’re lucky. Goblins are a real problem around here. I mean, sure, the lone Goblin isn’t that dangerous. But they’re one of the few monster species that can level. That’s why we send out Senior Guardsmen and post bounties on Goblins to keep their numbers down. Before we get a Goblin Chieftain with high levels. Or a Goblin Lord.”

Goblins could…level up? Right, she’d been told that. Erin blinked at Selys. And what was that about a Goblin Lord? But the entire idea nagged at her, so she lingered.

“So you guys kill Goblins all the time? What about Chieftains? Do you send adventurers after those guys?”

Erin didn’t know how she felt about that. Bad. But her sympathy only extended to the small Goblins, not the vicious, sadistic, big ones.

“Chieftains? Yes, but we have to be careful. Most Bronze-rank teams can’t survive an encounter with a strong one. Silver-ranks have to take on tribes—and there are some that even Gold-rank teams can’t handle.”

Selys shuddered. Erin frowned. As far as she could tell, Relc never seemed to worry about any number of Goblins.

“Why not?”

“It’s not that they’re stronger than the Watch. Relc, Klbkch, even some of the regular Watch are probably better fighters than Chieftains on a technical level. It’s just that they’re Hobgoblins—tough. And strong. And when they call their tribe, well, the average group of adventurers would get wiped out against that mob.”

“So you’re not sending adventurers out against a raiding party either, then?”

“Dead gods, no. If we hear about one of those, we form a hunting party and try to get rid of it right away. A raiding party can wipe out a village in an hour if we don’t get to it in time.”

“Nasty.”

“It is. Here’s another pad.”

“Thanks. Sorry I can’t pay you more—it’s just that I don’t have much money from this innkeeping thing.”

Selys waved her needle at Erin.

“Don’t apologize. I’m happy to help. But I’m afraid I could have warned you that innkeeping in that old inn isn’t a good idea.”

“Why not?”

“Well, what level are you? Ten? Twenty?”

“Nine.”

“See, that’s not too good. If you were in the city, I’d say you should get apprenticed to another [Innkeeper]until you’re at least Level 15. It might take a year or two, but then you’d have a few good skills to run your inn with. And I wouldn’t have an inn that far away from the city to begin with.”

“Yeah. No one comes by. Is it because I’m Human? Or is it too far to walk?”

Another pad finished, Selys picked up the roll of bandages and cut off more for the last pad. She lined the backing with a stiffer cloth and then sewed layers of the soft bandage on top.

“Both, I’d say. It’s dangerous to come out that far—well, not too dangerous, but it’s a bit of a deterrent. Your being Human isn’t bad, but…”

“But…?”

“Well, I’ve heard Relc talking in bars. He says you make pasta. Is…is that all you sell?”

Erin squirmed in place. Her mother had offered to teach her how to cook more, but…Erin had often excused herself from dinner help, or washing the dishes, on the pretext of chess games. It was coming back to bite her now.

“Um. Yeah. I can make other things. I’ve got [Basic Cooking], but—what’s wrong?”

Selys was shaking her head as she sewed. Erin was envious of her speed and also her scaled hands. Whenever the Drake missed her cloth or stabbed one of her fingers, the needle hit her scales rather than soft, vulnerable flesh.

“I don’t want to be rude, Erin, but that’s not too impressive. All cooks and chefs have [Basic Cooking] as a skill. Some even have [Advanced Cooking].”

“Oh. And, uh, I guess pasta isn’t that interesting.”

Selys kindly didn’t respond to that statement.

“You could make other things, but there are a lot of good inns in the city. And we get recipes from the Human cities up north all the time. Even if you sold a new dish, someone would copy it the next night.”

Erin’s face fell. Selys looked unhappy, but went on.

“Anyways, no one will make the journey if all you’re selling is pasta. I’m sorry.”

Erin groaned as she thumped her head back against the counter. That helped explain her lack of business. And it was sadly obvious. Erin just—hadn’t ever run a restaurant or inn before!

Her regular clients might not mind eating the same dishes, but everyone else would. She guessed she should be grateful for her regulars, thinking of it that way.

Relc would probably eat anything he could swallow, Pisces would eat anything he could steal, and Klbkch would eat anything she put in front of him. The Goblins were probably pickier eaters than her clientele.

The last pad done, Selys slid it over to Erin. The young woman gratefully accepted them and felt them carefully. They were thick, but not so much that they’d be uncomfortable wearing. More importantly, they were made of strong materials, and she was sure she’d be able to wash and use them again.

“You have no idea how much this means to me. Thank you so much.”

The Drake smiled at her. Erin smiled back.

“Don’t mention it. And good luck with your innkeeping. I’m sorry I had to say it like that, but—”

“No, you’re right. I’ll…do some thinking about it. But right now—”

Erin was edging away from the counter.

“Uh, where’s your bathroom?”



——



The new pad Erin was wearing did not chafe like the towel. Which was exceptionally fortunate, because her skin was raw and still sore. It made the walk back to her inn less fun than normal, but at least the crisis was averted.

“Just in time for a new crisis.”

Erin grumbled to herself as she felt at her pocket to make sure the precious pads were still there. She had to think about business. The trouble was, she’d never run a business or even worked in any job aside from a part-time library assistant and helper in chess tournaments. She had no idea what to do.

“I’ll think about it tomorrow.”

Erin muttered to herself as she opened her door. It was just past midday, but she felt exhausted. She hated periods. Why couldn’t they have disappeared along with her world? Maybe there was a Skill to get rid of them. [No Period Pain] or [Bloodless Flow] or something like that—

As she opened the door to her inn, Erin stopped in her tracks. Her inn was empty. But something was moving underneath the table. Something glowing…

In her haste to leave, Erin had kicked her bloody towel and pants in a heap. And one of the windows must have been open a crack, because it had attracted guests.

A swarm of glowing green Acid Flies crawled over the dirty clothes. They rubbed their bodies all over the clothes, the table leg, the floor…

Parts of the wood were smoking and glistening with the Acid Flies’ toxic juices. Erin could see pitted holes in the floorboards. She stared in horror at the giant green flies crawling all over her clothes.

“You have got to be kidding me.”





1.22


A shifting, glowing mass of green and black insects covered the bottom half of a table and pieces of bloody cloth. Erin looked at the countless bugs that had entered her inn and wondered whether screaming would attract their attention. Probably.

They were huge, black bugs that vaguely resembled fireflies. Except these Acid Flies were up to three times bigger than fireflies, and instead of pretty glowing backsides, theirs were bulbous glowing orbs that exploded if you annoyed them. They were ungainly; they had a vaguely fly-like torso and front, but their backside was a huge, glowing bulb filled with the green acid that gave off a lurid, practically neon glow.

And they were in Erin’s inn. And there were dozens, crawling all over her bloody clothes. And they were in her inn.

“Oh no. No. This is not right.”

Slowly, she edged around the room. The Acid Flies took no notice of her. Erin made it to the kitchen, dropped her pads in a clean spot, and grabbed a bucket. Then she edged back out of the room and ran for the stream.



——



Ten minutes later, Erin opened the door of the inn and ducked as an Acid Fly buzzed at her face. The insect spiraled away and flew back to the bloody clothes. Erin narrowed her eyes and squinted.

It looked like the flies had devoured, or melted, a large part of the cloth. And either they were full or sleeping, because most of them were sitting on the pants or around it, not moving.

“Perfect.”

Erin tiptoed closer, pausing every few seconds to make sure she wasn’t bothering the bugs. The bucket was heavy in her hands, but she was close. She just needed to be in range.

When she was certain she was close enough, Erin took a deep breath and then hurled the bucket at the flies. The bugs were washed away by a tide of water and struggled helplessly on their backs, their wings too heavy to fly.

Erin moved fast. In an instant, she was in the kitchen and pulling out a large glass jar she’d used for storing perishable foods. She dumped a bunch of onions out and then grabbed a long-handled spatula.

The flies were still struggling to get up as Erin moved back into the common room. She bent down and began flicking them into the glass jar, one after another. Some exploded as the wooden spatula touched them, but soon, Erin had figured out the way to avoid the Acid Flies bursting was to hit their heads, rather than their glowing, green abdomens.

In no time at all, she’d rounded up all the Acid Flies and sealed them in the large glass jar. Then she was rushing back to mop the acidic water and the exploded flies in a disgusting mess out the front door of her inn. Thankfully, the water diluted the acid—it was just disgusting. That done, she sat back in a chair and wondered whether she was cursed.

“So. Apparently Acid Flies like blood. Right. And does that mean I have to worry about them landing on me when I sleep?”

She looked down at the jar of flies. Most of them were buzzing around inside the glass jar by now. They clung to the glass, fanning their wings innocently.

Erin lifted the jar up carefully and stared in horrified fascination at the bugs.

“Four legs. I knew I wasn’t dreaming that up.”

That would technically make the flies not flies, but it didn’t matter either way. They looked like oversized houseflies, acted like them, and aside from the exploding acid bit, they were as harmless as flies.

“And now I have a jar full of these deadly little critters. What do I do now?”

Erin stared at the jar. Letting them go was probably a stupid idea. Mainly because they liked blood. And she was on her period. Ergo, they’d probably land on her and melt her face off. So what could she do?

“…Hm.”

Erin hesitated and then experimentally shook the jar. Instantly, half of the Acid Flies inside exploded. The green, glowing liquid flowed to the bottom of the glass jar while the bodies of the dead flies floated to the top.

After checking to make sure the top of the jar was extremely secure, Erin gave it a really hard shake. This time, the rest of the Acid Flies exploded, and she was left with a pool of green acid and a bunch of dead fly corpses bobbing on the surface. The glass and their bodies were the only completely acid-proof things that Erin had found. The cork would slowly dissolve if she turned the jar over—but slower than almost anything else, and it worked well enough as long as the jar was stored upright.

“I should feel bad about that. I really should.”

She didn’t. And as Erin stared at the dead flies floating in the acid, she had a thought. She carefully put the glass jar in a corner of the room where she wouldn’t trip over it by accident and got another one out from the kitchen.

“One jar for bugs, one jar for deadly acid. Perfect.”

Erin picked up the jars and hesitated again.

“Acid. Does it melt glass? It doesn’t look like it’s melting, but will I wake up with a hole in my floor?”

She thought acid did. At least, the Aliens from the movie could melt through glass. But that was a movie. On the other hand, this was a fantasy world.

“Right. But in chemistry class, we used glass.”

But again, this was another world. Erin carefully held up the glass bottle and peered at the edges. No steam or atrophy so far. Even so, she put the jar in a far corner of the kitchen. Just in case. Then she inserted a metal ladle into the acid, saw that it didn’t dissolve either, and transferred the dead fly-bodies to a separate jar.

“Okay. Done. Now what?”

It took her two seconds to realize what she’d forgotten. Erin smacked her forehead.

“Time for cleanup.”

She got up wearily and trudged back into the common room. She looked down at the part of the floor and table where the Acid Flies had been congregating and swore when she saw the holes and gaps in the wood.



——



It wasn’t easy dragging a table out of the inn, but it helped when the wood broke apart and she could drag the pieces out. The acid had eaten through the base of the table and pitted the floorboards. That meant Erin was also faced with the lovely prospect of repairing the floor after she was done with the table.

Well, Klbkch had helped her repair the floorboards after the Chieftain attacked, so she knew what to do. Plus, he’d left the tools behind, including a kind of wood-glue and nails. A bit of figuring out how to pry the floorboards loose with a hammer and Erin’s [Basic Crafting] Skill did the rest. It took her an hour, but when she was done, the only sign the flies had been there were a few differently colored floorboards and her aching back.

“I hate all bugs. Except for Klbkch. No, actually, I hate him too. At least flies don’t lie to my face.”

Erin collapsed back into a chair and stared at the ceiling. Today was not a good day. In fact, she’d put it in the top ten bad days she’d ever had. Unfortunately, that meant it was a good day if you compared it to the ones she’d been having since she got here.

“Who knew I’d be grateful to be covered in sawdust and sweat rather than blood?”

She laughed, coughed as some dust got into her lungs, and stood up.

“Bath time.”



——



One of the glorious things Erin had been introduced to in Liscor was the public bathhouses. They weren’t free to enter, of course. She had to pay five coppers, but they were hot and luxurious and well worth the price. Come to that, she got off easy since she paid the same rate as Drakes. Gnolls and other Beastkin had to pay twice as much because of the fur.

Yes, the steaming bathhouses were a delight to match any convenience of the modern world. Just sinking into the scented waters was enough to take Erin away from the pain of reality.

That was why bathing in the freezing waters of the stream was twice as hard now. Erin stuck her foot in the water, yelped, and then decided to jump in before she lost her nerve.



——



The one good thing about being in the middle of nowhere was that you could bathe naked, and you could swear and scream as much as you wanted. After Erin had gone through the shock of getting in the cold water, she scrubbed herself as fast as possible, lathered herself with the ball of soap she’d bought from Krshia, and screamed again when she saw the fish in the water.

It shot through the water like a torpedo. Erin exploded out of the stream like a rocket. It followed her but couldn’t figure out how to run after her on dry ground. Erin ran around screaming, hit the fish with the bucket she’d brought until it stopped moving, and ran away. She came back only later when she’d had a brilliant idea.



——



Erin trudged back across the grasslands, an empty glass jar tucked under one hand and a knife and bucket in the other. She held the knife so it pointed down. She wasn’t sure if that rule only applied to scissors, but she figured it couldn’t hurt with knives.

It was later. In truth, it felt like days had passed, but somehow she was still on the same day. The sun was starting to set in the sky, though, so at least she was halfway done.

From this distance, she could see a green glow coming from the dead fish. Erin slowed down and put down her burden and shaded her eyes. It looked like her targets were already waiting for her.

“Hm.”

Erin squinted. All the flies were resting on the fish. Or in it. That was good.

Slowly, very slowly, she tiptoed towards the fish, the bucket in her hands. She eyed the Acid Flies and saw they were rubbing themselves all over the fish. The acid from their backsides was eating into the fish, and they in turn were eating the melted result.

“Oh wow. That’s gross.”

The flat fish wasn’t so much flat as runny now. Erin wondered if she should feel sick, but she mainly felt a kind of fascinated revulsion. She shook her head and got back to her mission before the flies decided they wanted dessert with dinner.

Stealthily, Erin filled the bucket from the stream. Then she tiptoed over to the fish and tossed the water all over the flies and the fish.

Again, the Acid Flies found themselves struggling on their backs, unable to fly. Erin dashed back and grabbed the glass jar.

“Take this! And that!”

Erin began smushing the downed Acid Flies with her glass jar. They exploded in showers of acid, and in no time, she’d killed them all. That done, Erin looked at the dead fish.

It was mostly melted from the acid. Erin prodded it with her knife and gagged. But she needed it, so she steeled herself and tried to cut the fish in two.

The knife blade sunk through the fish like butter. It wasn’t so much fish now as sludge. And no matter how hard Erin tried, she couldn’t get it to separate. Wherever she cut, the sludge oozed back together.

Disgusted in more than one sense, Erin covered her face with one hand.

“Well, of course that would happen.”

She needed a spoon, not a knife. Lacking one, she used the knife to scoop some of the fish sludge away. She stared at it and felt her stomach roiling. As the smell of the decayed fish hit her nose, she dry-heaved.

“I can do this. Think of the money. Think of the food. Think of the inn. Don’t think of the fish.”

She took several deep breaths while looking the other way. When she was fairly sure she wasn’t about to throw up, she went back to the sludge.

“Okay, [Basic Crafting], activate!”

First, Erin took some of the green fish-sludge and poured it in the bottom of her glass jar. Then, she took off the glass top and set it on top of the jar so that it was just wide enough to let flies squeeze into the container, but didn’t give them much room to get out. Then she walked away.

“Acid Fly trap, complete!”

Erin stared at the glass jar. She slapped herself gently with one hand. Then she set up three more jars the same way.

“Let’s see how you like this, you little jerks.”



——



“You have a talent for finding the most dangerous things, don’t you?”

Pisces shuddered as he gazed at the Acid Fly traps. He edged away from them and rubbed his arms nervously. Erin grinned at him.

“Aren’t they gross? But look—the jars are almost half full, and it’s not even been more than two hours.”

“How fascinating.”

He took another step back. Erin eyed him, but she couldn’t judge him too harshly. Both she and the mage were a good ten feet away from the glass jars.

Erin had to own it—she wasn’t good at making traps. The entire conceit of her jar trap was that the lid was just placed such that a fly would have trouble getting out because insects were stupid. However, if she were trying to trap houseflies, most would invariably leave the trap once the food ran out.

…In this case, the Acid Flies were just stupid and didn’t want to leave. They swarmed over the fish-melt without a care in the world, and it was easy to just tip-toe over and close the lid. Thus, you had a jar full of…acidic flies. Pisces could admire the traps—he just didn’t see why you wanted a jar. Of Acid Flies.

Pisces licked his lips as he stared at the jars. The way the countless glowing shapes moved and heaved against the glass was hypnotic. It also put him off his lunch. He turned to Erin and smiled wanly.

“I imagine…I imagine if all four containers were to rupture, the swarm of these insects could very well engulf us and melt our flesh within moments.”

Erin thought about this and gave Pisces a scowl.

“What a lovely image.”

“Yes. Yes, I imagine it will fill my dreams tonight.”

She shook her head.

“They can’t get out of the jars. They’re not that smart. They wriggle in, but the lid keeps them from exiting. I did the same thing with fruit flies back where I lived. Well, I lined the edges with sticky tape, but this seems to work because these guys are even dumber than fruit flies.”

“I applaud your ingenuity. But may I ask why you decided to capture a swarm of deadly insects that prey on dead matter?”

“Well, they’re bugs. I bet Klbkch would love to eat them.”

Pisces gave her a fish-eye look. He shook his head.

“It’s your funeral if you want to attempt to cook them. May I advise removing the acid before you serve them to your guests?”

Erin glowered at Pisces. She wasn’t even sure why she’d invited the mage to see her traps. She just wanted to show off, and he was the only one who’d come for dinner that night.

“I don’t get how they can survive anyways, if they explode so much. I mean, how would they even live long enough to reproduce?”

“By having few predators insane enough to risk consuming them. That, and the fact that they are nearly limitless in number.”

“Ah.”

Pisces waved a hand at the glass jars.

“These are only the males of the species, in any case. The females are—substantially—larger. In fact, the sole purpose of the male is to gather as much food as possible. He will dissolve and absorb as much nutrition into his lower abdomen before returning to a female in hopes of winning her favor. They all do it.”

“Oh, sort of like how bees and ants both have queens, right? All the workers feeding the big leader?”

Erin glanced over and saw Pisces gaping at her open-mouthed.

“What?”

He shook his head.

“I was unaware you were so familiar with the biology of insects, that’s all.”

“Oh, I know tons of weird animal facts. When I was a kid, I watched Discovery Chann—I mean, I read lots of books.”

“You can read?”

Pisces gave her a look almost bordering on respect. Erin glowered at him.

“Of course I can read. I can also play chess, and I read poetry. Sometimes.”

“You can play chess?”

Erin glared again, but he seemed genuinely curious.

“Oh yeah. I play chess. A tiny bit. You could say it’s a hobby of mine.”

It was sad to see the sly look that crept into his gaze before he turned his head, coughed, and came back with a carefully bland expression. Pisces’ lips twitched as he gestured to the inn over-casually.

“Really? As it happens, I was considered one of the better players in the northern cities. Would you care for a game? Perhaps with a wager or two on the side?”

Pisces smiled innocuously at her. Erin rolled her eyes.



——



An hour later, Pisces stared at the chess pieces in front of him with desperate concentration. He moved the king piece in front of him left and then right. He turned his head to look at the board another way.

“Perhaps if I—”

“Nope. And even if you try to take the pawn, it’s still checkmate.”

Erin didn’t bother looking up from her meal. She’d made scrambled eggs with sausage on the side. It wasn’t the most exciting of meals to eat, but it was tasty, filling, and better than having to stare at Pisces.

He sat back, put his fingers in his hair, and stared at the board with a look of wild disbelief. He glanced up at Erin, looked at the board, and then gave up and sat back. Pisces stared at the beams in the ceiling overhead, as if uncertain whether this was reality or a fever dream.

“I cannot fathom it. I was—am one of the best players on the continent! I have outplayed [Tacticians] and other mages of similar caliber and skill. How could you defeat me?”

She shrugged.

“Amateurs are still amateurs. By the way, I’ll put the money you bet me on your tab.”

Pisces’ eyes widened. He had made several bets before he realized who he was up against. Erin hadn’t saved him from himself. He lurched upright, a finger desperately raised.

“Ah. That. Clearly, I made a miscalculation. Would you care to waive my debts if I—”

“No. You bet, and I won. No arguing. Eat your eggs.”

Erin heard a loud sniff, but after a moment, she also heard the clink of metal on pottery.

“I must admit, this is better fare than your unfortunate soup of yesterday.”

She looked up. Pisces quickly looked down at his plate.

After she’d glared for a bit, Erin asked a question that had been on her mind for a while.

“What do you do all day, anyways?”

Pisces looked up and swallowed the scrambled eggs.

“I study the mystical realms of the transmundane. To unlock the secrets of the ether and command over supernatural forces, I—”

“You study.”

“Pretty much.”

Pisces shrugged and went back to munching on his dinner.

“Do you need to study that much? I mean, don’t you know spells?”

He sighed.

“For all my magical proficiency, I cannot cast more than a few magics beyond the fourth tier in any field, and I am relegated to first and second-tier magics in most fields outside of my specialization.”

Erin sampled one of her pieces of bacon and nearly burnt her tongue.

“Oh. Um. Magic has tiers?”

Pisces rolled his eyes.

“Indeed. Seven or eight to be exact. There is a speculative ninth tier of magic, but no [Mage] has ever cast or discovered a spell of such magic that I have read of in any history book. Well, Tier 7 spells are a thing of myth in the modern era. In any case, to cast such spells, [Mages] such as I require concentration, time, and effort to unravel the workings of each new incantation.”

Again, Erin had to pause to figure out what Pisces was saying.

“Right. So you study to cast better spells. And I guess that makes you level up as well?”

He began prodding his king-piece moodily, annoyed by her rephrasing all his statements.

“Obviously. It is a taxing affair, especially given that menial affairs such as lodging and sustenance must be taken care of while one attempts to study.”

Erin propped her head on one elbow.

“Almost makes you wish you had a job, huh?”

Pisces eyed her dourly.

“Until recently, I had a quite profitable side business liberating unneeded supplies from the locals in exchange for entertainment. But now, I abstain from such activities to stay within your good graces.”

“Yeah, and because Relc threatened to stab you if you kept doing it. That’s not really a good career path, you know.”

He sniffed loudly.

“I also had a far more lucrative occupation liberating unneeded items from those who were in no position to use them, but apparently, that is considered a grave violation of privacy as well.”

“You rob the dead?”

“I reburied them afterwards.”

Erin opened her mouth, raised a finger, threw up her hands, and gave up. She stared at Pisces as the mage huffily finished his food.

“Why don’t you do something actually useful instead?”

“And what would I do that is so useful?”

“I dunno. What do mages do for a living? Blow up stuff with fireballs? Dispense sage advice? Sell their beards? I found a bunch of magic runes in the kitchen. They kept food fresh for—I dunno, years.”

“Ah. A [Preservation] spell, no doubt. Yes, that is certainly a service some [Mages] skilled in runecraft can provide for plebians.”

“…And? Can you do that?”

“I cannot.”

“Darn.”

Pisces folded his fingers as he sat back, as haughty as a king on a throne. And somehow, a king in rags, waiting for his second helping of bacon.

“I am sorry to betray your high expectations of me, but I fear even a mage of my caliber cannot study every school of the higher arts.”

Erin glanced up at Pisces. The mage was scraping his plate with the knife and fork. She had the distinct impression he would have licked it if she weren’t watching. He really was thin, and so, sighing, she added another egg to the mix as she ladled bacon dripping with grease onto the plate. Amazingly, he had gotten mad when she tried to drain the grease. So had Relc.

“I never had high hopes for you in the first place. I just think it’s too bad, that’s all. You know magic, and you don’t do anything with it.”

Pisces put down his fork.

“Some would say magic is its own reward. I would.”

“I guess.”

Erin sighed. She felt like she was talking to a wall. A particularly annoying wall with bad hygiene.

“You know, if you actually helped people and were a bit nicer, I think you’d actually be fun to hang around with. Why are you so rude to everyone?”

She hadn’t meant it to sting, but clearly it hit Pisces somewhere vulnerable. He sat up straight in his chair, his eyes flashing.

“Thus far, I haven’t found any people worthy of my assistance. Why should I help those who judge me in ignorance and fear?”

Erin blinked up at him. The young mage’s face was pale with indignation, but spots of color flared in each cheek. She thought about asking him another question—but he was in no mood for conversation. His eyes flashed with a kind of actual anger. Not at her—but it was so real she was taken aback.

She could have dropped it. Instead, Erin just shrugged and stood up. She looked Pisces in the eyes and retorted calmly.

“Because you’re a better person than they are.”

He blinked. His eyes were grey and green, not like moss on a rock, more like a dance between the two colors, a nebula of both and perhaps the faintest hint of orange in that distant solar phenomenon. Scornful, aloof normally—and right now, wide with surprise. They did not look like any [Necromancer]’s gaze that Erin would have imagined.

She collected his plate and hers and left the mage sitting at the table. When she came out of the kitchen, he was gone.



——



The next day, Erin got up and went to check on her fly traps. They’d worked scarily well.

All four glass jars were filled with crawling, wriggling shapes. Erin took one look at the jars, gagged a bit, and then had to go sit down.

“Oh man. Oh wow. That’s the nastiest thing I’ve ever seen.”

It was also, on reflection, the scariest thing she’d ever seen. Erin wondered what would happen if she accidentally knocked the lid off of one of the jars. She recalled Pisces’ comment about melting flesh and shuddered.

Carefully, Erin walked over to the jars. She repeatedly thought about how important it was not to trip.

Her foot caught on a tuft of grass. Erin windmilled her arms wildly and caught herself just before she tripped into one of the jars.

“Not okay. Not okay.”

Before her heart could finish stopping, Erin adjusted the lids of each jar so they firmly covered the openings. Now, the Acid Flies couldn’t get out at all.

“That’s better.”

Erin hefted one of the jars up and felt some of the Acid Flies explode within.

“Oof. That’s heavy.”

She repositioned the jar as the acid and flies shifted inside. For such little insects, they weighed a ton.

“Gotta be all the acid in their backsides. Okay. This could take a while.”

Erin took one step and then another. She adjusted her grip around the glass jar so she wouldn’t drop it. She’d have to watch the ground for potholes, but she was pretty happy with her posture. She took another step and tripped over another of the glass fly traps.

The ground rushed to meet Erin’s face. She realized she was still holding the glass jar and hurled it away from her just in time. She smacked into the ground hard and exhaled hard. Aside from that, she was fine.

Then Erin heard the glass jar shatter as it hit the ground. She rolled to her feet and stood up.

The large glass jar lay in shards on the grass. Green-gray acidic sludge dripped onto the ground, raising steam and hissing where it met the soil. For a moment, all was still among the wreckage. Then, with a horrific buzzing, a swarm of black shapes flew into the air.

Erin felt her heart stop. She looked up at the spiraling cloud of flies. They flew around wildly, looking for whatever had disturbed them. Erin backed away slowly, praying they would ignore her. For a moment, it seemed as if they would fly off, but then the entire direction of the swarm changed. The cloud of flies seemed to recoil and then encircled Erin in an instant.

Her heart had stopped. It wasn’t beating in her chest. Erin looked around desperately, but all she saw were buzzing, buzzing flies. They filled the sky, the ground, everything.

“I—”

They swarmed her. Erin screamed and covered her eyes and mouth.

“[Gust]!”

Erin heard the voice and then a raging gale blew around her. She staggered as the wind blew her around. The effect on the Acid Flies was even more pronounced. They were blasted away from Erin into a funnel of air that whirled them into one spot. They buzzed around angrily, disoriented and confused.

So was Erin. She looked around and saw a familiar young man wearing dirty grey robes. He was pointing a finger in her direction.

“Duck, Erin!”

Erin dove to the ground and hit the dirt hard. She looked up and saw Pisces raise one hand. A pale frost formed at his fingertips, and half-visible gusts of wind blew around the length of his arm. He pointed at the disoriented swarm of Acid Flies.

“[Frozen Wind].”

A gentle breeze blew against the top of Erin’s head. Then, the air crackled and her hair froze in place. Erin could see the faintest trace of whirling air as it blew over her head. Where it passed, snow began to fall from the sky, and she felt an intense freezing cold engulf her.

The swarm of Acid Flies flew into the freezing breeze and fell out of the sky. Erin yelped and ran as they showered down around her, frozen insects that burst as they hit the ground.

She dove into the river and leapt out of it just as quickly in case the flat fish tried to bite her. When she cleared the water out of her eyes, the glowing swarm was gone, and all that was left was a circle of smoking dirt and frozen grass.

When Erin had finished shaking so hard she couldn’t move, she stood up. She was still trembling uncontrollably.

“That was the most amazing thing I’ve ever seen. Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.”

She lurched over to Pisces. She wasn’t sure if she should throw her arms around him or start crying. She settled for a brief hug and then doubled down and hugged him fiercely. He didn’t seem to notice the fact that she was dripping with water.

Pisces was breathing hard. He stared at the sizzling patch of earth where the Acid Flies had been, as if mesmerized. She could see the whites of his eyes as they shifted towards her.

“It—that was a beginner’s spell. Not suitable for most combat and downplayed by my instructors. However, it was the best tool for the moment. All magic is worth using, after all.”

“Right.”

Erin nodded. Pisces nodded. His eyes flicked back to the patch of melted earth.

“You saved me. It was incredible, that spell.”

He shook his head and waved a hand weakly in her direction.

“I am—I am a [Mage] of Wistram Academy. As a talented practitioner of the wind elementalist field of magic along with other spells in a generalist’s repertoire, of course such displays are second—second—”

Pisces bent over and threw up in the grass. He retched and then threw up again. Erin patted him on the back and waited for him to stop.

After a while, Pisces wiped his mouth with a corner of his robe. His face was still pale, but he looked better.

“You were lucky I happened to be here. Very lucky.”

Erin nodded.

“I was. I really was.”

Pisces nodded back. Erin felt like they were both bobbleheads, but there was nothing else to do. He pointed a trembling finger at the three glass jars still holding the swarms of Acid Flies.

“If you insist on using such traps, might I suggest you anchor them in the stream?”

Erin looked blank.

“The stream? Why?”

“Several reasons.”

Pisces shakily counted them off on his fingers.

“Firstly, the natural buoyancy of the water would prevent the breakage of glass if the jars were dropped, or at least mitigate the danger of the Acid Flies. Secondly, the effects of wind and other native life would also be mitigated. And thirdly, I would not be at risk of tripping over such traps.”

“Right. I can do that.”

She wasn’t sure if it was shock, but the trembling in her body had nearly vanished. Erin grabbed a rock, tied some long grass to it, and anchored the rock to the glass jar. She dropped the rock in the stream and watched the jar bob and float in the water.

“Hm. I need something heavy to make sure it stays upright. I guess sometimes the jars might turn over…but it’ll work. Better than leaving them on the ground. A hundred thousand times better.”

Pisces nodded again.

“Well.”

“Good thing you came along.”

Both nodded again. Pisces opened his mouth and grimaced. He went over to the stream and shakily rinsed his mouth out. Then he looked up at her.

“May I ask—what is it you plan to do now, Erin?”

She looked at him. Then she looked at the glass jars full of flies.

“I’m going to take these jars back to the inn. You’re coming with me in case I drop one. And then…”

“And then?”

“And then I’m going to feed you until you explode like one of the flies.”

Pisces glanced down at the glass jars and the milling Acid Flies within. He shuddered again.

“An apt description.”



——



The jar of Acid Flies was a mix of acid and death. The corpses of hundreds—thousands of the small bugs floated in a sea of glowing green juice. It slopped against the side of the glass, an obscene testament to insectoid death.

“Hold on, I think there’s one left.”

Erin shook the glass jar. The last remaining Acid Fly bounced against the glass and popped dully within.

“What will you do with them?”

She looked up at Pisces. The mage was sitting several tables away from her, deliberately not looking at the glass jars.

“I’ll separate the flies and the acid. I don’t know what I’ll do with the acid.”

“If you dispose of it, please do so with utmost care. While the acid of these insects cannot eat through metal or many conventional materials, it is extremely quick to dissolve any organic material.”

Erin nodded. She carefully put the glass jar back in its corner and stood up.

“Right. Um. Want another piece of bread? Or would you like some more juice?”

The sight of the fresh bread and cup of juice made the mage’s face turn an indelicate shade of green. He patted his bloated stomach and erped. He covered his mouth with his hand, but Erin was pretty sure he’d nearly thrown up.

“Maybe not, then.”

“You have been most kind.”

Pisces stood up and clutched at his stomach. He wavered and cast his eyes towards the door.

“Most kind. But the night is old, and I believe I shall retire.”

“Are you sure? I could get you a bag of food to go.”

He turned a darker shade of green and waved a hand quickly at her.

“You are very considerate, but no. No. I will be off. Thank you for your hospitality.”

“It was nothing. Let me get the door for you—there. Careful on your way out.”

She saw Pisces out the door and then turned and looked back at the table he’d sat in. It was filled with empty plates and crumbs. She debated cleaning it up and then shook her head.

Carefully, Erin picked her way across the inn. She walked over to the three filled jars of Acid Flies and made sure for the umpteenth time that the lids were secure and that she couldn’t see any flies still wriggling around inside.

Among the many things Erin had bought from Krshia, one of them was a chalkboard and piece of chalk. She’d meant to record things she needed on it, but now, Erin wiped the black slate clean and used her best handwriting as she wrote on the board. Then she propped it up on the bar’s counter.



Menu:

Pasta w/sausage and onions – 3 cp. per plate.

Blue juice – 2 cp. per glass.

Acid Flies – 1 s. per plate



She dropped the chalk on the counter and cast her eyes back at the jars of dead flies. Erin shuddered. She rubbed at her arms and sat in her chair. Too close. Too close by far.

In a while, she’d fall asleep. In a while, she’d wake up screaming and then fall asleep again. She’d be haunted by the sound of buzzing wings for the next week. But for the moment, Erin’s eyes closed.



[Innkeeper Level 10!]

[Skill – Alcohol Brewing obtained!]

[Skill – Dangersense obtained!]



“…I wonder if you can make fly cookies?”





1.23 A


Click.

A single sound in the darkness. The sound was of two mandibles snapping together. Long pincers, like those of tiny ants, but scaled up for a body slightly shorter than most Humans, Drakes, and Gnolls. The mandibles were a last-ditch weapon; they were meant to lacerate and tear, but they were really for breaking up bits of food. They still frightened every species not insectile in nature.

As did the bodies in the shadows, milling about, each one moving independently of the others but adhering to a grand plan. Hunched figures barely more than ominous shadows became more visible when they stepped past a glowing strip of green fungus placed on the wall for illumination.

A rounded shell on the back. Four arms. Four arms and two antennae, waving as the silent figures moved. They had somewhat rounded feet, but their creators had given them more support that they might walk upright.

In fact, they seldom fell, even in battle. If they fell, they landed on their beetle-like shell and would have to rock madly to swing themselves to their feet or be helped up. Not that they were supposed to fight.

These were but Workers. They scooped dirt out with their bare hands, loaded it into sacks they carried away, to move dirt and rock and roots, sometimes merely a dozen feet, then packed it into another wall in progress. They pounded the walls of the tunnel with their bare hands, and there were a hundred, all working in this long section of ground.

What was it? A tunnel. A vast tunnel that had been in progress for a month. This group was no more than two dozen strong, but they could hear another group moving just to their left.

The thinning wall fell inward, revealing more Workers, more Antinium in the darkness, completing their section of the tunnel. The first group barely paused a second before they began shoveling the dirt aside. They were so efficient, so…similar that despite both groups beginning independently, without line of sight, they had reached this point at practically the same time.

These were Antinium. The Free Antinium of Liscor’s Hive. They worked far below Liscor in the sprawling Hive. And this was their entire world.

Darkness. Dirt. If you found an edible root, pull it free and deposit it in a pile for sustenance. Rocks, another pile. Dirt went into the walls.

When it grew too dark to see, one of the Workers would continue the strip of glowing fungus, providing just enough light for the Workers to tell what they were doing. But it was so dark and so claustrophobic, another species would go mad in this place.

Boredom, anxiety, and the like were alien concepts to the Antinium. For the Workers below—there was no such thing as claustrophobia. There was no such thing as names or wants or even purpose. All these things were bad to ask of them.

Very bad. Aberrations appeared when you asked an Antinium questions. The citizens of Liscor had long known to ignore them and only give basic instructions. Workers just performed tasks like sweeping, building, and hauling things. Only one Antinium had a name, and that was Senior Guardsman Klbkch, and everyone knew him from the war.

These Workers had no names. They had no purpose, either. They only did what they knew must be done. Because the Queen, or Prognugator Klbkch, had ordered them to.

That order was everything. Their orders were to dig. If one even thought about the future, they would know, know that at some point they would be told to leave their post and go eat. Then they would eat, scooping the nutritional paste into their mouths. Then sleep in their assigned spots. Then wake.

And then? Then they would work. Or fight.

Fight in the darkness. All the Workers froze a second as a sound echoed through this place.

Click. A pair of mandibles snapped together. The Workers froze because the sound was an interruption, an unneeded waste of movement. The auditory disruption to their perfect cycle was the lesser cause, though. Or rather, not the only reason.

They listened for scraping, for rustling or chittering or growls not here, but ahead of them. Past a thin layer of dirt, at any moment, a hand might reveal a roaming eye. Or teeth. Or a glowing body and too many legs and blades to count.

Then they would fight, and many would die until Soldiers arrived. The Workers did not fear this. It was. But they did listen.

The scrape of their hands pulling loose dirt was the entire world. The feel of the sack in hand, the pale green glow amid black-brown bodies their only existence.

Few Workers ever saw the surface. They knew it existed. If an intruder entered the Hive, Soldiers would kill them. If an army came, they would fight to the death to keep them from the Queen.

Only Prognugator Klbkch went above regularly. He chose Workers to perform duties above. Soldiers were not allowed above. Above was a strange place for Workers, filled with non-Antinium people and rules you must obey about streets, but you followed orders.

One of the many Workers had gone above yesterday. He had been sweeping a street that was dirty. He swept from dawn till dusk, and then he went below.

It was an easy task, sweeping dirt. It was not the same as having a cascade of dirt shower down as he accidentally loosened the supports of the tunnel. He was buried in an instant and lay there for six minutes until the other Workers unburied him and he got up to work.

Antinium were built to withstand poison. They tired less easily than other species. They could survive being buried alive and fight on even as they bled from multiple wounds or losses of limbs. They were a species so unique even the rest of the world’s many species found them—strange.

Even so. The Worker who had gone above wished not to be buried again and took care to make sure he did not make the same mistake. He had no desires. He had no wishes.

But if he could have chosen, he would have gone above again. For there was something up on the surface.

Color. A breeze from the pale blue sky that changed to a fiery red he had never imagined in his existence. The Workers who went above did not speak to the others. Workers seldom spoke because there was no point.

And yet that sky…the smells from the place called Market Street and that entire moment stood out more to the Worker than his entire life below. He had even seen something strange.

The entire world above was strange. Drakes and Gnolls ignored you, and nothing made sense. Sometimes, one might curse or throw rocks at you, but that was rarer these years compared to the beginning.

Not that any Worker here had lived long enough to remember the beginning, ten years ago when the Free Hive had been founded here. Only Klbkch had been there. He and the Free Queen.

But there had been something that almost—almost made sense, above. The Worker kept remembering it.

It was a board of black and white pieces and tiles. Nothing made sense to a Worker. He did not understand why lips rose and curved, or what laughter was, or why water would come from a small Drake’s eyes. He did not understand why food looked different every time above, or why there was no tunnel overhead, bare feet above his antennae.

But he liked that board because it had rules. It made sense. He had watched as each piece moved according to its place.

That made sense to him. He actually understood it as the Human girl played with the Drakes and even Prognugator Klbkch.

That was—

Click. A third time a mandible clicked, and this time, as one, every single Worker turned and stared at the Antinium who had made the sound.

It was not the Worker who had gone above. It was, in fact, another Worker, ubiquitous to the rest, who froze slightly.

Click. Why did it make that sound? There was no need. There was no danger—and this Worker still made the noise. It stood out. It was…an Aberration?

Some of the Workers backed away, wondering if this were how they died. But this Worker did not shriek. It did not kill, as Aberrations always did when they appeared. It trembled slightly—then made the sound again.

Click, click, click.

There was almost a kind of…rhythm to it. As if the clicking were more than a warning or accidental rubbing of mandibles. Almost like what the Antinium had no name for. A thing heard on the surface.

A song.

—But that was not right. Antinium did not, should not make sound. One began to hurry off to find a Soldier or Klbkch. When either arrived, this Worker would die. Then silence and normality would resume. This is what would happen.

The clicking Worker continued to snap its mandibles together as the one who had gone above tried to make it quiet.

Click, click…click click click…he listened as the other Worker ran to find a Soldier.

Then the walls imploded, and a screaming, fleshy creature stuck its head out the side of the cave. It was thin, but so long it twisted into the tunnel, fourteen feet long, grabbing the running Worker and tearing its head off in a single twist as two long tendrils shot out. The clicking Worker and the one who had gone above recoiled in a moment of terror and then reaction and adrenaline.

Then it was death and battle. Green blood, running as Workers began to fight for their lives and more monsters poured out the tunnels. The two Workers, the one who made sounds and the one who went above, fought, punching with their bare hands, tearing at shrieking moths with mouths like razors fluttering everywhere—

Was this now death?

No. Seconds into the battle, Soldiers arrived. They crashed into the fighting, swinging their fists, bigger, stronger than the Workers. They died too—but the monsters fell as a wave of bodies rushed over them.

Four Workers out of sixty survived the carnage unscathed. Many of the survivors had lost limbs; some died before their wounds were staunched with a gel, and others were…no longer useful. They were left to die too. The rest stood there, blood and bodies leaking, Antinium and monster alike.

Then—more Workers arrived to pick up the dead for processing, Antinium and monsters both. More Workers pushed past the two covered in monster blood and their own green blood and began digging out the tunnel.

The two Workers who had survived looked around, then stood against a wall as a figure strode past Soldiers milling around the breach in the Hive. He was known to them.

Known to them all. The Worker who had been clicking trembled, and the other one stared as Klbkch walked forwards.

He wore no armor of a [Guard] down here. Only a loincloth—unnecessary since they were all the same body, chitinous armor, not flesh. But what marked him apart from the others were the two swords which hung at his sides, the belt of magical items.

The swords were bared and shone in the faint moss-light. Normally, they only came out to slay Aberrations. Or kill monsters.

“Another breach. The fifth this week. Casualties mount. My Queen—we cannot continue this rate of attrition.”

He spoke, not to the Workers—why would he, except to give orders?—but to the unseen presence in their heads. The being who governed this Hive and sent Workers to their tasks. She seldom spoke—but they knew her will.

The Queen. Oh, the Queen—and Klbkch was the only one who spoke to her. Her reply came more as thought than word. It was exhausted, like the last vestiges of energy that came after the mania of a day without sleep, without rest. She seldom slept but managed the Hive, kept the monsters at bay.

“Yes. The plan must be completed quickly, Klbkch.”

The Workers didn’t know what this meant, but the survivors stood there as Klbkch nodded.

“I shall expedite it at once. Five teams of Workers have already perished, but we are near completion. You four. And you…sixteen. Follow me.”

The four survivors from the original dig group and sixteen new Workers instantly stepped forwards and followed Klbkch. He gave them no orders; they simply followed him through the Hive.

Click. This time, only the Worker who had gone above and swept heard the sound. It was so infinitesimally small that only he heard it—and the Worker next to him who clicked his mandibles together.

Click, click, click—the sounds continued. Had he been doing this the entire time?

Stop. If Klbkch heard, he would kill the Worker. But the Worker continued as they wound their way up through the Hive, through secret tunnels no one knew about, that were not supposed to exist.

When they emerged—they saw the sky.

It hung above them, and the Workers all froze for half a second as they saw black night above. Like the cavern, but so wonderfully vast. And stars. Colors never known to the other Workers shone down, winking under a blue moon that hung waning in the sky.

“Follow. In silence. We must not be detected.”

Klbkch made the Workers spring to attention. They followed, keeping low, as he led them past Liscor’s walls. They should not be here. They knew that—Antinium were not allowed outside the city—but Klbkch was watching the walls cautiously.

He was not Senior Guardsman Klbkch here. So he led twenty Workers to a plot of land by a hill, far enough from the city that the Workers were able to feel the soft, foreign grass below their feet, stare at the sky, even flinch as something passed overhead, squeaking.

A…flappy thing? The Worker who clicked stared up at it and followed it with its head. Such strange things—but the Worker who swept was afraid.

He realized that if five teams of Workers had died, the sixth might be this very group. Yet he did not do anything.

He was Antinium. This was his purpose.



——



Klbkch came to a halt by a strange area along one vast hillside. Higher than most. He pointed, and the Workers saw an area of disturbed grass covered over to look from afar like regular hillside. It was, in fact, the opening to a tunnel.

“Within you will dig. There is a door. Reach it. If monsters attack, kill them. Dig—you have until morning.”

The Workers slowly filed into the tight opening and found a far vaster complex within. And…the bodies of other Workers. Most were torn to pieces, but they recognized parts of a head, shell—the Workers trembled, but they saw the outlines of a door.

It was open. It was so tall that they had to create dirt footholds just to climb up and dig it out, then haul more soil and dead bodies away. Not all the bodies were Workers. Klbkch stood outside, watching the moons move as the Workers hollowed the tunnel.

The door itself had been forced open by the sheer pressure of earth and stone. Weathered stone straining against the weight of hills in the deep gloom for centuries, perhaps even longer, until one gave and let in mundane dirt and grass and roots into a place quiet and untouched for aeons.

Waking what lay within. But the Antinium had been the first visitors to this place, and the desperate crew shoveled dirt. The gloom beyond the entrance seemed to be alive—as if inspecting their presence and inviting them to step further within. Or perhaps something inside was simply moving.

Choosing its moment to strike.

Every second, the Worker who swept waited for something to come through the door. Klbkch had drawn his blades; he was waiting too. He stood in the doorway, dividing darkness and moonlight with his blades—and it seemed like that was the only thing that gave the silent shadows pause as they lengthened. The Workers knew this truce might be broken at any minute, in the next second.

But nothing came. He heard…rustling from beyond, as if something listened to the Workers, but perhaps it was no longer hungry.

Hours passed as the Workers dug, frantically, and then Klbkch glanced inside the hollowed complex and spoke.

“The sun is rising in two hours. This will do.”

All the Workers froze. This would what? The door was now unearthed, and a large, hollow space existed in the hill, hidden by the grassy embankment above. Klbkch eyed the tunnel, then gave the strangest order yet.

“Collapse the opening. The door should be visible from above; no signs of any tunneling. Work fast. We have less than an hour.”

The Workers milled about, loosening dirt, pulling apart the supports they had dug. When the first showers began, the Worker who clicked looked up, and the tunnel began to fall—but the Worker who swept grabbed him and pulled him to safety.

In the darkness before dawn, the entire structure that six teams of Workers had dug out finally fell, and an entire hillside cascaded down as they ran to join Klbkch. Twenty Workers stared at the hillside, now visibly crumpled inwards from a distance.

Klbkch eyed the debris and ruins of their work. The Workers did not understand; they saw a bit of that foreign door poking out of the hillside, but it was blocked again by dirt. And now…

The door was closed. The Worker who swept felt a strange prickling sensation in his body.

When had that happened? But he said nothing, lest Klbkch think he was Aberration. And the Prognugator seemed pleased by this.

“Good. Very good. Go back and rest. This will do.”

So, like that, twenty Workers went back to the secret tunnels and to their Hive and ate before they headed to their holes and slept. The next day, they would have more orders and live or die.

It was all they knew. They had no notion of what they had done or even thought long about how close they had come to dying. Antinium blood was still flaking off the sweeping Worker’s chitin. And still…he saw that game of chess, playing in front of his eyes. Again and again, a beautiful thing not like this Hive. He slept and dreamed of that, a rarity, the first dream in his life aside from the dreams he had of the sky and floating up away from the Hive.

He only woke up when he heard a faint clicking from the Antinium in the cubby hole next to him. He clicked and clicked, like a little song, late into the night. And this time, no Antinium stopped him.





1.24


“Baking soda.”

Krshia shook her head. Once more, she stood at her shop counter, this time sharpening a knife with a whetstone as a product demo. She was selling whetstones and knives. She seemed very familiar with both; there wasn’t much chance she would cut herself as she applied more water to the whetstone.

Erin hadn’t known you sharpened knives with, well, a stone. Or that you got it wet. Hence the name. Krshia had laughed the entire time—until she realized Erin was serious. And when the Human girl described the idea of the ingredient she needed, the Gnoll rested her chin on her paw and frowned mightily.

“I know not what that is. I have many things which can be baked, but none of this ‘soda.’”

Erin groaned. She felt she shouldn’t be surprised, but she still hated being surprised.

“How about baking powder? Everyone has baking powder!”

Again, Krshia shook her head.

“What is this powder supposed to bake, Erin Solstice?”

“Cookies.”

“And what are these ‘cookies’?”

Erin gaped at Krshia. She gestured with her hands.

“Cookies. You know? Small, round, brown things?”

“Are you talking about cow leavings, Erin Solstice?”

“No!”

Furiously, Erin grabbed at her hair. She immediately let go. Her hair was not as hygienic or as clean as she was used to it being.

“How do you—this world doesn’t have cookies? How is that fair? How!?”

Erin stopped ranting and pounded her fist lightly into her hand.

“…How about ice cream?”

“What is this ice—”



——



Thirty minutes of Krshia laughing and snorting at her later, Erin Solstice was walking back to her inn. She kicked at the clumpy grass, too mad to even admire the orange tint to the patch she was walking through. She was mad.

“Stupid worlds that don’t have ice cream. Stupid Gnolls who act nice and look at me like I’m insane. How does anyone live without ice cream and cookies?”

Erin grumbled to herself as she trudged back to her inn. She kicked the knee-high grass and wished she had a lawnmower the size of a skyscraper. Maybe then her legs wouldn’t itch so much after walking—

Clickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclickclick—

A familiar sound across the plains. It made Erin’s blood go cold. She stopped, listened, and then saw it.

A gigantic, grey, craggy rock seemed to be levitating across the grasslands. But that was only an illusion. If you looked closer, you’d see many legs churning up the soil underneath the rock. But Erin had no intention of getting that close. She knew what was making that sound and what was living under that rock.

It was a Rock Crab. Erin froze and then turned to run. But it wasn’t coming at her.

Instead, the gigantic rock was propelling itself across the grasslands quite quickly. Its rapidly shuffling legs tore up the earth as it ran. But it wasn’t chasing anything. Was it running away? From what?

Erin got her answer as a bunch of much smaller figures surged over the crest of a hill, chasing the Rock Crab. Goblins.

Goblins? Chasing a Rock Crab?

What a ridiculous statement. Erin was amazed to see the same group that had been around her inn when the Chieftain…her smile vanished, but it came back when she saw the silly sight.

A huge Rock Crab, half as large as a house, was scurrying across the grass, surging down a hill as little green figures, short and waving weapons, pursued it. Erin had been in that situation, but she hadn’t weighed—what—thousands of pounds? Yet the crab fled the tiny group of eight, and Erin wondered if the Goblins had scared it with seedpods. That was the only thing she could think of.

At first, Erin grinned at the sight, but her smile faded as more and more of them appeared. First there were eight. Then ten. Then twenty—forty—

Yiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyiyi—

That was a lot of them. Erin’s smile vanished as she heard that familiar, dangerous sound. The Goblins were screaming a warcry of their own as they chased the Rock Crab. The crab seemed to sense them behind it and sped up, but it was still too slow. As Erin watched in amazement, the first Goblin leapt and managed to cling to the Rock Crab’s shell.

Instantly, it swung around and threw the Goblin off. From underneath the Rock Crab’s shell, a large claw appeared and snapped at the Goblin. Erin covered her mouth as the Goblin screamed and held up a bloody stump of an arm.

But even as the Rock Crab surged towards the injured Goblin, more Goblins leapt at it. It swung around, trying to knock them away, but although it knocked several Goblins flying, many more dodged its claw and charged at the Rock Crab, screaming wildly.

The Goblins swarmed the Rock Crab. Erin watched, open-mouthed as the giant land crustacean snapped and struck out with its claws. Three Goblins fell away, severely cut and bleeding. One was missing a hand, but the others—

They swarmed over the rocky shell, bashing it with clubs. They ducked underneath it as well, biting, stabbing, tearing.

Erin couldn’t see what was happening as more and more Goblins crawled underneath the Rock Crab’s shell, but she saw it spasm. It clicked rapidly in pain and swiped at the Goblins, but they were too close for its claws to grab at. A baby blue liquid seeped from beneath the shell. The giant Rock Crab collapsed, and slimy, blue Goblins dripping in entrails and crab shell emerged from underneath.

Erin backed away slowly. Her heart was pounding a million times per second. She imagined what would happen if one of the Goblins glanced over at her. They’d rush her and cover her in an instant.

But they were all intent on their kill. The Goblins were ripping the Rock Crab apart, hungrily scarfing down its guts. It was a sight to make Erin nauseous, but her stomach was already clenched tight from fear.

Eventually, she thought she was far enough away. Erin turned and ran.



——



Most of the other Goblins didn’t see the departing Human. They were too busy cracking the Rock Crab’s hard shell and scooping out its slimy entrails. They feasted.

But a few Goblins did notice the Human. One with ragged clothes, the smallest of the tribe, stopped biting into the Rock Crab’s bitter flesh to watch the young woman leave. The Goblin gripped something in her pocket tightly. Soon. It would be soon.

The ragged pouch of coin jingled softly as the Goblin shook it. The littlest looked around quickly, but the other Goblins were too busy gorging themselves to notice the small sound. The female Goblin stowed her pouch of coins among her ragged clothes. Then she went back to eat as much as she could.

The warriors let her pass. They were grunting, tearing bits of raw crab off to eat. There was no Chieftain. The Chieftain was dead—the tribe might have fractured or fallen apart, but they would eat well today, and they might have lots of food till later.

All because they’d hunted a Rock Crab. Without the Chieftain! The tribe hadn’t been certain it would work, but—the Chieftain had never run fast enough to kill the crabs anyways. If they could do it with him just shouting for them to ‘run faster’—why couldn’t they try to do it one last time?

That was what the littlest Goblin had suggested, and the warriors had taken her suggestion because everyone was hungry. Now, they glanced at her and let her grab a juicy bit of the crab’s stomach. The littlest Goblin didn’t like whatever it was—it was wet, slimy, and bitter. But she felt her pouch full of shiny coins.

Soon.



——



When Relc and Klbkch tried the door to the Wandering Inn, they found it was locked. Only after Relc had knocked twice did the door open a crack. When Erin finally let the two in, she bolted the door as soon as they were inside.

Relc raised one non-existent eyebrow and flicked his tail idly at Erin.

“What’s gotten into you?”

“Greetings, Miss Solstice. Is something wrong?”

Erin looked warily out the window, but felt better with Relc and Klbkch in the building.

“Goblins.”

“Goblins?”

Relc laughed as he and Klbkch sat themselves at one of the tables.

“What, are they throwing rocks at you again? If you want, I could—um, scare them. But Goblins? Seriously? After you killed their Chieftain, what’s there to worry about?”

“How about a group of Goblins that can kill a giant rock-crab-thing in seconds?”

Erin snapped at Relc as the Drake laughed.

“It was the scariest thing I’ve seen. Some kind of raiding party swarmed over the crab and—”

“A raiding party?”

Relc sat up in his chair and grabbed for his spear.

“Where, and how many? Come on, Klbkch. We can head them off—”

He jumped to his feet. Erin waved her hands frantically.

“No, no! There’s way too many of them. Besides, I don’t want you to kill them! That would be—”

Relc interrupted Erin as Klbkch watched her silently. The Antinium’s hands were on his weapons too.

“Look, if there’s a raiding party out there, we need to take care of it. I can ignore a few Goblins, but a few hundred of them roaming around? That’s a threat.”

He went for the door, but Erin dragged him back. Or rather, tried to. Her feet slid uselessly across the ground, and he didn’t even seem to notice her weight.

“Exactly how many Goblins were in this group you observed, Miss Solstice?”

Klbkch interrupted Erin’s futile struggling as Relc paused by the door.

“Well—”

Erin had to think.

“Not more than forty, I guess.”

Relc blinked and stopped unbolting the door. He looked back at Klbkch and then down at Erin. Slowly, he walked back to his chair. Then he sat down in it and started to laugh.

Erin gaped as Relc chuckled and then transitioned into full-scale guffaws of mirth. He covered his face with one claw and pounded the table with the other.

“Just what’s so funny?”

“A raiding party, she says! Hah!”

“I fear you were under a slight misapprehension, Miss Solstice.”

“Oh yeah?”

“Yeah!”

Relc finally managed to get his laughter under control when Klbkch stepped on one of his feet. He wiped tears out of his eyes and grinned at Erin.

“That’s just the local tribe. Forty Goblins? Please. I could take out half of them without breaking a sweat. Between me and Klbkch, we could kill all of them—”

He broke off and cleared his throat.

“Not that we would.”

Klbkch nodded.

“Despite their competency, a Goblin tribe is no threat to any but lone stragglers, Miss Solstice. On the other hand, a small raiding party is usually comprised of at least three hundred Goblins. Larger groups have been known to exceed a thousand individuals.”

Erin gulped.

“That’s not a raiding party. That’s an army.”

“Not if you’re a Goblin.”

Relc’s expression became serious as he leaned back in his chair.

“Yeah, like Klbkch said, a Goblin tribe isn’t dangerous. Maybe to you—but you killed their Chieftain, so I doubt they’d be brave enough to attack this place. Besides, if you lock the doors and windows, they’ll have a hard time getting in. But when Goblins start appearing in numbers? That’s when things get nasty.”

She heard the silent cue and took it.

“How nasty?”

Klbkch leaned forwards over the table.

“Extremely. Although Goblins are considered a minor threat by most settlements of any size, when they do appear in numbers, they are fully capable of wiping out villages, cities, and even nations in the past.”

“Get out.”

“It is quite true, Miss Solstice.”

Relc nodded.

“I’ve heard stories of the Goblin Crusades. And witnessed one myself. The last time one occurred, multiple armies of Goblins rampaged throughout the north and sailed across to the Human continent, Terandria. There were at least a hundred thousand Goblins in each army, and their King had a million Goblins at his back when we pushed his forces out of the south. The Bloodfields.”

He stopped talking for a moment, and his arm tensed around his cup.

“Bastard. The north got him in the end. But it felt like you couldn’t see anything but smoke everywhere you looked. I heard the north was ash in some parts of it. They nearly took First Landing.”

Erin felt like she needed a history class or at least a map. Yet Relc’s face was suddenly set and Klbkch was quiet. She hesitated—but she had to ask.

“Bloodfields? What’s that?”

Relc snapped out of his fugue and blinked. Then he looked amused again.

“Oh come on! You don’t know about…? Even if you’re foreign, the Bloodfields are famous! It used to be a battlefield. Well, it still is. Lots of armies fight there, and so much blood has been spilled that the entire place has changed. The entire area is full of Blood Grass. Very nasty. Drinks blood and eats people if they’re not careful. I fought there twice.”

“Oh.”

Erin felt like she should say something else, but Relc’s expression had grown uncharacteristically serious. She searched for something else to say.

“Then…the Goblin tribe isn’t that dangerous?”

Relc flicked his tail dismissively.

“Not to me or Klbkch. Just don’t walk into them, and you should be fine. Most people can outrun a tribe unless they get trapped anyways.”

“But they killed a Rock Crab!”

“Yeah, what’s that?”

“You know, that giant thing that hides under a rock? It goes clickclickclickclick—”

“Oh, that. Is that what you Humans call it? We just call them Hollowstone Deceivers. What’s a crab?”

“A creature that lives in the sea, I believe. The name is quite apt.”

“Whatever. It’s not that tough.”

Erin blinked at Relc.

“It’s not?”

He waved a hand at her dismissively.

“Oh, we’ve got a lot more freaky monsters living around here. Way more dangerous. They’re just all sleeping or somewhere else this time of year.”

“Or underground.”

“Yeah, or that.”

That didn’t sound good to Erin at all.

“I haven’t seen any of these other monsters. Just the dinosaur birds.”

Klbkch nodded.

“That is appropriate for the season. At this time of the year, the Floodplains contain few creatures besides the Goblins. Aside from grazing herds, most animals—”

“Herds? You guys have herds?”

Again, Klbkch nodded.

“They are usually confined in villages to the north of Liscor. The city hosts many pigs, sheep, horses—”

Relc nodded and smacked his lips.

“Delicious. They’re great if you eat them half-raw. Speaking of which, got any food?”

“Oh, right. Sorry.”

Erin got up and mechanically began placing dishes on the table.

“Dinner will just be a few minutes while I warm everything up on the embers. Uh, what other creatures haven’t I seen yet?”

Relc scratched his head.

“What else? Um. What about Shield Spiders? They’re probably hiding in their tunnels right now, but they’re still around…watch where you step or you’ll fall into a nest.”

Klbkch twitched as Relc mentioned the spiders. Erin twitched too, and her skin crawled at the thought. Relc grinned at both and shook his head.

“Don’t worry. It’s not the right season for them. You’ll see a lot more wildlife around here when the new year begins. This is the quietest time of the year, actually. Once the rains start, you’ll see a ton of weird creatures, and then when it stops, all the animals that travel come here to graze. And in the winter, it gets really dangerous. There’s these things called Winter Sprites, which are a pain in the tail…”

“Wonderful. I bet everyone comes here to see all the monsters who want to suck your face off.”

It might have been that Drakes were impervious to sarcasm. Or it might have just been Relc’s natural obliviousness. He nodded happily as he licked his lips.

“We used to get a lot of travel down south. But that all stopped when the damn Necromancer appeared.”

“Necromancer? You mean Pisces?”

“That weakling mage? No. I mean the bad Necromancer that nearly destroyed the city about ten years ago. Is the food ready yet?”

“Not yet. So that’s why you guys hate the undead?”

Klbkch shook his head as Relc glanced longingly towards the kitchen where good smells were beginning to waft out.

“I believe the Necromancer did not help public perception, but the undead have always been considered a threat, Miss Solstice. It is said that the three most dangerous things to Liscor are rain, the undead, and war.”

“I can see war, but why rain and the undead?”

“Bah. They’re the real threats. War? Huh. We don’t fear war. Our army fights in wars—far south of here! They send back loot, but no one attacks Liscor! We’re too far, and the Bloodfields are in the way.”

“That is true. Most residents of Liscor do not fear war. I personally deem this unwise given the volatile nature of conflict between nations on this continent.”

“Hah! Even if all the northern and southern cities burn, Liscor will never fall!”

Relc slammed a fist on the table and then looked at Erin beseechingly.

“Can I at least have a drink? Blue fruit juice?”

“Oh, of course. Just a second.”

Erin hurried into the kitchen to grab glasses and the pitcher of freshly-squeezed juice. When she got back, she heard Klbkch and Relc arguing.

“—The certainty of Drakes in the impregnability of Liscor seems unwise. My people have brought up the need for increased vigilance to your governing body, but—”

“What’s the problem with the Watch, huh? You’re part of it. You know we can take care of any monsters that appear. And if an army does come here, so what? There’s only two ways into this valley. North and south. The mountains are practically impassable, and the Bloodfields guard the southern border. Even if an army comes through, the Floodplains will cut off any chance of siege. What don’t you get about that?”

“The north is still relatively unguarded. If the Humans were to unite under the Five Families—”

“Human cities?”

Erin leaned over the table and nearly spilled juice all over Relc. She looked at the two.

“There are Humans around here? Where?”

“To the north. Duh.”

Relc raised his eyebrows while Erin struggled not to throttle him. Klbkch glanced sideways at Erin and then back to his drink.

“And? Um, what do the Human cities do?”

Relc frowned as he poked at his claws with a fork as if testing how sharp it was.

“Who knows? They’re Humans. We have an okay relationship with them. They don’t come over here and stomp on our tails, and we don’t eat them.”

Erin sagged slightly. Klbkch kicked Relc under the table, and the Drake glanced up at Erin. His eyes widened.

“Oh. Um, uh, like I was saying to Klbkch, Liscor would never fall! Even if an army did attack from the north, we could just recall our army. Unless they could breach our walls in a week or less, the army would come running right back and smash them. See?”

“Is your army really that great?”

Relc nodded proudly as Klbkch indicated his agreement.

“The Liscorian army is famous. Don’t you know? We fight battles for other cities, and they pay us to kick our enemies to shreds. We field two thousand Drakes and a few hundred Gnolls at any given moment with officer classes. Those are just the officers. Now, we don’t have that many soldiers per officer—sometimes as low as two, but that’s Liscor strategy. When there’s a big battle coming, it’s as many as eighteen per officer. Now, I know that sounds like a small army to you, but their average Level is 17. How about that, then?”

She wasn’t sure what to make of that. It sounded quite low.

“Um. It’s good?”

“Good? It’s great! The average level of soldiers in other armies is Level 8. Eight. They have low-level [Conscripts] or [Militia] who don’t see battles. Ours are veterans. Get it?”

She did. And when Relc put it that way, it was impressive.

“So the, uh, Liscorian army is twice as strong as other armies?”

Klbkch shook his head.

“That is not entirely correct. Levels cannot replace tactics or numerical superiority, or equipment, for that matter. However, it is still a potent deterrent to larger forces. That allows the Liscorian army to fight as a mercenary force without prolonged engagements.”

“Exactly. Any army that runs up against ours knows that if things get serious, they’ll bleed for every soldier they bring down. That’s why we can earn so much money fighting abroad.”

“So are they here? In the city, I mean?”

“Nah. They’re almost always out on some campaign. The Liscorian army fights wherever. I think they were in the east, fighting near one of the Walled Cities. Oteslia, probably. They’re easy to siege.”

That all made a sort of sense to Erin, although she was having a hard time thinking of a parallel with her world. That was also because she hated history class. But she vaguely recalled the Mongols doing something similar. Or was it the Turks? The Swiss? Now she had no idea.

But Erin did have one question. She raised an eyebrow at Relc.

“So your army goes out and fights for money? Isn’t that dangerous if someone attacks here?”

“Exactly my point. If a stranger to our city can identify the weak spot so quickly, why is the populace so resistant to any suggestions regarding defense?”

Relc shook his head at both Klbkch and Erin angrily.

“Like I said, Liscor’s got a lot of natural defenses. Besides, what army in their right minds would want to attack the one city with an Antinium Hive?”

Erin sensed her food was nice and warm, but that last word bothered her. She lingered, her hands on the table.

“A what? An Antinium Hive? Is that unique?”

Relc opened his mouth to laugh in her face—then he saw her genuine expression and waved his hand at Klbkch. As for the Antinium, he gave Erin a long look as Relc explained.

“This city. Liscor. It’s home to a bunch of Antinium—not the violent kind, the peaceful ones. But they live here, so that makes it a Hive. One of six in the world. The Black Tide, the Antinium from Rhir—we are the only city that allowed a Hive to be created. Because they helped fight off the Necromancer. ‘sprobably why no one wants to visit anymore. But hey, it makes us special. And the Ants do help a bit. Right, Klbkch?”

Erin turned to look at Klbkch. He nodded in agreement.

“We have a standing contract with the people of Liscor. In exchange for our presence, we provide services and goods to the city. It is a mutually beneficial arrangement.”

“Yeah, it was weird having the Antinium around, but it turned out to be a good idea.”

Relc shrugged.

“Anyways, the bottom line is that the Ants defend the city if we’re ever attacked and help out with construction and other jobs. They send some of their people to work in jobs, like Klbkch here. And in return, we let them stay.”

“That doesn’t sound too fair. What’s in it for the Antinium?”

Relc looked amused.

“No one kills them. You think the Hives would be allowed anywhere else? All five of the other ones are in the Hivelands, and we’d be at war with them if the Walled Cities thought they’d win. This is the only city where Drakes, Gnolls, and Antinium mix. It’s probably why we’re not in the middle of a third Antinium War. To everyone else, they’re the monsters who should be destroyed.”

Erin looked at Klbkch. He didn’t seem inclined to disagree, but she did.

“They seem pretty good to me. Although Klbkch is the only one I’ve ever met. But he doesn’t cause trouble or call Humans names or do anything bad. Unlike certain Drakes I could name.”

“Thank you, Miss Solstice.”

Relc glared as Klbkch bowed his head. He flicked his tail back and forth on the ground and growled.

“Oh, the Ants are great. They’re quiet, they don’t get drunk, and they’re about as interesting as wood—until one of them goes crazy.”

Klbkch nodded.

“The strain of madness has not been eliminated from the current generation. We have reduced the average instance of insanity by 14% per year, but we must remain vigilant.”

“What? Fourteen…what? Can you explain that bit to me?”

Klbkch nodded and opened his mandibles, but Relc’s stomach audibly growled. He poked Erin in the side, which made her jump and earned him a foot-stomp from Klbkch, but he didn’t seem to notice. He whined at Erin.

“You can talk about the crazy Ants later. But right now…food?”

Erin dithered, but relented at last at the desperate look in Relc’s eyes.

“Oh, fine.”

She went into the kitchen and began lugging out a pot of soup, a basket of warm bread—a bit too dry from being near the embers—and her standard pasta with sausage and onions. Relc began to salivate the instant he saw the food.

“Sorry it took so long. I wanted to tell you guys about the Goblins, so I forgot to heat stuff up.”

“No problem, no problem. Just put it here and all is forgiven. And oh yeah, we’ve got news too!”

Relc rubbed his claws together eagerly as Erin brought out plates and bowls.

“Ooh, is that soup? And bread? And pasta! That’s a lot of food!”

“Yeah, well, I was celebrating earlier. I cooked up a lot by accident.”

“Celebrathing? Celebrathing whu?”

It was hard to understand the Drake as he spoke through a mouth already bursting with food. Erin politely averted her eyes as she replied.

“Oh, you know. Not dying.”

“’S good! Good to celebrath!”

Relc washed down his mouthful of bread and cheese with a cup full of blue fruit juice. Erin had other liquids for sale now too; regular apple juice and a refreshing minty drink, but the Drake had developed a taste for the sticky blue fruit drink.

“I would like a bowl of soup too, if it would not trouble you, Miss Solstice.”

Erin glanced over at Klbkch and remembered. She put a frown on her face.

“Wait a minute. Is soup another one of those things Antinium can’t eat?”

Klbkch ducked his head.

“I assure you, soup is completely palatable to my kind.”

Erin glanced over at Relc, who nodded agreeably as he stuffed his mouth with pasta. She put her hands on her hips.

“Okay, but I’m still mad about the pasta thing. So tell me—and I hope to god this is true or I’ll be really upset. Tell me, do the Antinium eat bugs or worms or stuff like that?”

Klbkch looked up into Erin’s face and hesitated.

“I would not like to offend your sensibilities with a description of my diet, Miss Solstice—”

“Offend away, by all means.”

Again, he hesitated.

“My kind is fully capable of digesting most dishes eaten by humanoids. However, it is true that if offered we will eat creatures Humans and Drakes deem unsavory. We do not tend to consume such meals in public—”

“Right, no problem! Just wait here!”

Erin skidded into the kitchen and began banging pots and plates together. Relc and Klbkch exchanged a puzzled glance until she walked back into the room carrying a heaping bowl of black things as far away from her as she could.

“Whath tha?”

Gingerly, Erin set the bowl full of Acid Flies on the table. Relc looked at it curiously, but Klbkch leaned towards the bowl as if suddenly hypnotized.

“These are—well, they’re these flying acid bugs that I found. I wasn’t sure if you’d want it, Klbkch, but I thought it was worth a try and—”

Klbkch picked up a spoon and began shoveling the black insect torsos into his ‘mouth’. Erin shut up. She also looked away. As much as she liked Klbkch, the crunching sounds and the sight of him eating the flies was hard to stomach.

“Looksh good.”

Relc swallowed his mouthful and reached out a hand. Without missing a beat, Klbkch slapped it away from his bowl. Both Relc and Erin stared in surprise at Klbkch.

“Um, can I have a bowl too, Erin?”

“You want some? Oh, uh, do lizards—”

Relc glared, and Erin amended her words hastily.

“—Drakes like bugs?”

“Not as much as this guy, but I wouldn’t mind trying some. I’ve eaten worse on campaign.”

Dutifully, Erin brought another bowl out. Relc tasted the bugs and munched a few down experimentally.

“Ooh, nice and crunchy! I didn’t know you could eat these things. How’d you manage to get rid of all the acid?”

“It’s a long story. It involves blood and—actually, I’d rather hear your news. What is it?”

Relc looked blank. Then he snapped his fingers. Erin was surprised he could with his scaly hands.

“Right, oh yeah. It’s terrible news! Guess what? Some idiot found a bunch of ruins to the northeast of the city, and it’s apparently some ancient dungeon! Now, every adventurer in miles is coming here to explore it!”

Erin frowned.

“Is that a bad thing? I thought finding old ruins and exploring them is what adventurers do. It’s what happens in all the games I, uh—well, it’s what adventurers do, right? Doesn’t Liscor have an Adventurer’s Guild?”

“Yeah, but they don’t have many members. Not many idiots in our city bother becoming adventurers since there’s not much to do around here. If you want to fight, you join the army or the Watch. It’s Humans who are the stupid—um…uh…”

Erin pretended not to hear that.

“You don’t like adventurers, is that what I’m hearing? Why? Don’t they kill monsters?”

“Yeah, and they cause trouble. They pick fights when they’re drunk, they run away from tough monsters, and they’re rude to guardsmen.”

Relc slammed his cup down on the table.

“Adventurers. I hate them so much.”

Klbkch nodded. He dropped his spoon into his bowl with a clatter. Erin blinked and looked down. The bowl she’d filled was huge, twice as big as a soup bowl. He held it up to her, empty.

“Another serving, if you please, Miss Solstice. It is true such sites bring increased commerce to our city, but the negative effects of so many adventurers cannot be discounted.”

Erin took Klbkch’s bowl and headed into the kitchen. She refilled it with the jar of Acid Flies and accidentally spilled some on the floor as she ladled them into the bowl. After a moment’s hesitation, Erin picked them up and tossed them in Klbkch’s bowl. She figured it probably wouldn’t bother him. The floor was clean, anyways. Flies were dirty things.

“Okay, so this is big news. But why are they all coming here? Are these ruins that amazing?”

Relc had pushed aside his bowl of Acid Flies for more pasta and soup. Erin caught Klbkch munching down on those as she slid him his refilled bowl of Acid Flies.

“Well, that’s the thing. No one knows what’s in those ruins. It could be nothing, but it also could be a ton of magical artifacts and treasure. It’s that big of a dungeon, apparently. Most ruins, well, they’re already explored or too dangerous to dive further into. A new spot like this is going to bring hundreds of idiots into Liscor, and guess who gets to watch them to make sure they don’t cause trouble?”

“You?”

“Exactly! It’s a pain in the tail, and we’re busy enough as it is. Now’s usually the time when we hire new recruits, so we’re going to be understaffed and working overtime.”

“It is a troublesome predicament.”

Klbkch didn’t stop eating as he spoke, which created an odd crunching background to his words, which already had a clicking nature to them.

“Naturally, the influx of adventuring parties leads to more trouble. However, it will also bring in needed trade and many merchants who seek to do business. Thus, while guardsmen such as Relc and myself find the situation hard to manage, the city is far more positive about these findings. Also, may I trouble you for another plate?”

Erin blinked down at the empty bowl.

“I just refilled that. You really like those flies, don’t you?”

Klbkch nodded.

“It is…surprising. I had not known the Acid Flies of this region were so…tasty. Until this moment, I had never attempted to consume one.”

“Yeah, I’ve never seen you eat like that, Klb! You’re eating like one of those pigs! Or a Gnoll!”

Relc laughed at Klbkch around a full mouth of food. Both Erin and Klbkch raised their hands to shield themselves from the splatter.

“Well, if you like it so much, I guess I’m in business!”

Erin grinned happily.

“I had no idea it would be such a huge hit. It almost makes everything I had to do to get these buggers worth it. Almost.”

“Was it difficult?”

“Very. But hey, if I’m the only one who can catch these suckers, I can actually attract some customers! Klbkch, would you mind telling some of your friends about my inn? I’d love to have some more business.”

Klbkch visibly hesitated.

“Do you mean for me to bring others of my kind, Miss Solstice?”

She shrugged.

“Yeah. Why not? If you liked the flies so much, I’m sure your friends would love them too. I’ve got a good system for harvesting them too—make them explode before you start carrying the glass jars around.”

Again, Klbkch hesitated.

“I am not sure that would be too…wise.”

“Why not?”

Relc was silent as he slurped down the last of his pasta, but he was watching Klbkch carefully from the corner of his eye.

“My fellow…Workers are not as used to dealing with other species as I. It would be imprudent to bother you with their presence.”

“Hey, if they’re like you, I wouldn’t mind it. And if they don’t want to talk to me, I can just serve them more flies.”

Klbkch looked uncomfortable.

“I would not want to put you to any inconvenience.”

“Isn’t that what being an innkeeper is all about? Besides, I deal with Pisces. Come on. Bring a few of your friends, and I’ll serve you Acid Flies until you explode.”

“Yeah, what’s the worst that could happen?”

Relc nodded. He slurped down his pasta and thumped Klbkch on the back. Jovially. Erin and Klbkch glared at him. Deliberately, Erin began knocking against the hard wood of the table.

“Has no one here heard of Murphy’s Law?”

“What’s that?”





Interlude – King Edition


Evening fell across the world at the same time. It was already dark in Liscor in an inn where a young woman was knocking on a table. That was because the mountains that sheltered her inn were obscuring the fading light. But far south and to the west, upon another continent, another land—the dry air was turning orange slower, blooming crimson like a great flower.

Sand whipped from the distant desert and blew across a city in ruins. A silent place. Not quiet, for men and women of both skin and cloth-flesh did live and work. Even flying folk with features and feathers like birds—but the city was still broken.

It resembled a crown, towers reaching high above circular walls. Once, this crown had been unbroken; now, two towers had fallen to decay.

It was decay that ate this city to pieces. The streets, once painted with glorious colors, filled with visitors, supplicants, and treasures from a thousand lands, were torn up. Glass windows were long since broken—or sold.

Everywhere was echoes. If you looked up, there lay one of the largest palaces upon a hill, a structure of mighty stone—but like everything else, it, too, had waned. Inside, there were no pieces of art; the treasury was shadowed, and year by year, the servants who remained looked older and thinner, despite the best efforts of the last loyal servant to keep everyone fed.

It was not food nor even the fallen fortunes that kept this city, this palace so quiet and still. It was like a slumber, a dark, deep dream had fallen across this remnant of a kingdom. Their heart had stopped beating, so they waited.

Waited—and they had been waiting for decades. They knew now, all of the ones who lived here, that there might be no waking. The rest of the King’s Seven were gone; the old kingdom had fallen to pieces and been gobbled up by other powers.

Now, they were allowed to live and stumbled through their days here despite their many enemies across the world. Because—no one dared march an army through the crumbling gates. Despite the few [Soldiers] left, the impoverished streets and folk—

No one wanted to wake this place up. Or rather, wake the true sleeper.



——



He sat in his throne room, a man with hair flowing long and unkempt. Despite the years that had added onto themselves, taking away his youth, he still had almost no grey in the red-gold hair that hung about his body. His clothes were still as rich as they had ever been, but the silk had worn fine, and cunning thread had tried to disguise tears and atrophy.

Even magic seemed to have waned around him. This man sat thinner than he had ever been. And he had been a great warrior. He still had elements of that—but he was frail, in spirit and in body, as one who had sat in this chair for years.

A plain chair, padded and backed with some ornate wood—but not a chair for him. It sat in a gigantic throne room, across ancient marble laid generations before his. And on the far wall was a throne meant for him. He had taken it from a foe in ages past, and the gold sparkled brighter with magic. The back of that throne was less comfortable than the chair, yet somehow, the man seemed most miserable where he sat below.

The only thing not tarnished or worn was his crown. A circlet of gold shaped into the very sigil of this nation. It was like a leaf of gold, sprouting from inhospitable desert, surrounded by stars.

But for that—and his very striking appearance—he might have been any man sitting there. For there was no spark in those eyes as green as this continent was not. They should have danced with passion, mirth and joy and fury.

Instead, they were empty. For twenty-two years, it seemed like those eyes were pieces of glass that fixed upon objects and people with no real meaning or purpose. Searching, perhaps.

Dreaming.

Slumbering, they called him. Slumbering…and let him sleep. Let him die there. No one disturb him, lest he wake.

That was how it had been for so long that no one had given any thought to this place, except as an entry in history. A calamity checked and now forgotten. The people of the city, the servants, the last protector who despaired even as he kept his vigil—all had grown used to this quiet despair.

Except that yesterday, something had happened. Something so unique that it had sent servants running through the palace and [Soldiers] dashing to defend the man in this room.

Assassins. That was what the people heard, and it made them worry. It made some furious—and remember blades and wrath. An [Assassin] would be the end of all—but this place was not so broken yet, not so worn that one could kill that man so easily.

Nor would the true perpetrators long live thereafter, even if a great nation had ordered it.

…But it was not assassins after all. It had been a mistake. What, exactly, the servants did not say, nor did the [Soldiers] understand. So the city murmured then fell silent. Waiting and waiting…but what they did not know was that the intruders were still there.

In that very throne room, in fact. They were alone, and the [Soldiers] at the doors occasionally glanced in to make sure they had no weapons—not that they were old or canny enough to bear them. Even the great servant, the steward, was not allowed within the throne room, to his anger. He had stormed off, but he had obeyed because it was a rare order.

The man in that chair had given it, so the two children were allowed to stay.

Boy and girl. The [Soldiers] and the steward might have objected—but the man with red-gold hair was not so weak as to be done in by two child-assassins, even if they came from Germina. Nor did these two have the look.

They were not warriors. Their clothing, even their demeanors were soft. Terrified, in fact. They had appeared in a flash of light and sound and quailed because they might be killed—now, spared, they were talking.

A young man and woman. Boy and girl in demeanor, but not age. They were both…sixteen years old. Neither one had the eyes of an adult having worked or fought already as men and women. They had strange dress, too colorful and beautiful to be cheap, but without an inch of magic or more marvelous thread.

Their accents were also—strange. They used strange words and stared about as if everything were new and odd. A common sword made their eyes pop, and a Yellat was the strangest food in the world. Perhaps they were Terandrian? No…stranger still.

But only the man in the throne room understood that. He listened as the two spoke, and his dreamy eyes slowly focused on one or the other.

A boy and a girl. Twins. They looked like each other, reflected, so similar that when one fell silent, the other spoke in their place. They were mystified as to how they had come here.

It also made the man in the chair curious. He would break into their explanations now and then. The boy would answer, or the girl, or both falter until one had a reply.

None of their answers were wrong, but some created more questions. An incomprehensible tangle of questions and answers because nothing made sense.

Yet these were no lies, the man with the crown knew. He could tell, even without the glowing crystal showing the truth of every statement. It just made their answers more confusing.

He sat there, hunched, and whispered in a low voice hoarse from lack of use.

“Hm. And is that the entirety of your world?”

He sat like a man waiting for something. And though his posture was languid and relaxed, a spark shone within the depths of his emerald eyes.

It was the first spark of genuine curiosity in a long time. The boy hesitated, and the girl nodded. The man shifted slightly, and his royal clothes moved, revealing something.

The flash of steel. But rather than a blade—the boy stared at the links of fine chainmail underneath the cloth.

The man was wearing armor despite sitting there. He wore the heavy steel like a second skin, as if he would have felt bare or uncomfortable without. When he stood, it was with swift clarity, as if he didn’t even notice the added weight.

If the Great Companies of Baleros could have seen him now, or the Archmages of Wistram, or the Hundred Kings and Queens of Terandria—they would have recognized a face from many burnt and defaced paintings, illustrations in history books, and descriptions of a younger man, now aged.

Yet in this moment, all their laughter and reminiscing of his fallen glories would have ceased. If they could have seen him, the look on his face would have scared them terribly. For the glass stare of a vacant figure was gone.

In its place was a burning hunger. A curiosity—an insatiable desire. The man’s head slowly rose, and the hair too long unsheared moved as he gazed up.

The ceiling of his throne room had gone to dust, despite the best efforts of the cleaners. His city below lacked color, and the deserts had reclaimed lush lands once filled with noise and light.

He had seen this same view for decades in grief and slumber. Now—the man looked out and saw something else.

Evening was falling across his continent, Chandrar. He gazed into the distance where the greatest desert in the world lay, and he had seen it. He had seen the buried city to the south, glimpsed peaks of every nation on the land upon which he stood.

Even those memories could not stir the eyes that had been emptied of tears and passion. Now, though—the man caught his breath. His great chest rose slowly as he saw something the two children could not.

But they had brought it. It was a vision. A vision of a world hanging in space. Space—a world shining at night with the lights of a thousand artificial suns. Green and blue and towering buildings of steel and glass. Airplanes soaring through skies with no magic but another kind of force of lightning and wit.

The vision held him there, breathless, and those eyes opened wide. Wide. Another notable thing about the man was that when he turned, his tanned skin had a hundred ancient scars. His teeth were white as he bared them, and when he smiled, the air felt full of life, like a heart suddenly skipping a beat. The two twins gazed at him, amazed at the change in the figure.

When they had first tumbled into this place and seen him sitting there, so still, head bowed, shoulders hunched, they’d feared he was dead or oblivious to all. But now he stood.

The last thing that was notable about this man was that he was a king.

“Magnificent. Truly, magnificent.”

He exhaled and then strode away from the windows and balcony. The twins flinched, but the king made no move towards them. He strode about the great throne room, his long steps a flurry of movement in the silent emptiness.

“A world unlike this one, full of miracles such as I have never dreamed…? Inconceivable. And yet—you tell the truth.”

The king spun towards the twins, and they jumped as one. He eyed the flashing stone, but his gaze was on their faces. He leaned over, inspecting their eyes and watching them—and he did know people. Again, the king shook his head.

“You tell the truth. I know it. Not just because of a Skill, but because it is too incredible not to be the truth. I could believe a world ruled by magic, but a world ruled by—machines? A place where magic is myth and technology has advanced to the point where men fly for business and convenience? That cannot be a fairy tale.”

He swept past the two again, this time towards the throne. The king put one foot on the dais and then shook his head. It wasn’t time. Once again, he stalked around the room, too impatient to hold still. His body screamed protest because it was not used to action. But his mind—his heart was shouting louder. Then he spun back and pointed at the girl, who flinched again. But he was not angry.

“And when you did lie—when you dared to conceal the truth—it was to lie about the strength of your armies! The sheer power of a single weapon in your world that could shatter armor like paper and lay waste to even the strongest walls—that is the might of the world you claim exists beyond this one! Where I would be naught but a primitive beast from a forgotten era.”

He spread his arms as he came to a stop before the boy and the girl. They looked up at him fearfully. Not because he had been violent, but because he was a king to be feared or exalted—or both.

“So. What should I do with two strangers from another world? What would any man do? The thoughtless rulers who seek to protect their ways of life? Perhaps kill you.”

They flinched at that. The girl moved protectively in front of the boy. The king’s lips twitched.

“Do not fear, young lady. I am no ordinary man, ruled by his flaws. I am a king, and my flaws are a lesser man’s strengths. No; I believe I should keep you two safe. You have more knowledge, I am sure, and you may be key to finding more of your kind. Nor do I fear your world. Not at all.”

The two twins looked up at the king nervously. They paused, and then the girl asked a question. The king nodded as he stroked his beard. It was too long, and he looked down at it, mystified, as if wondering how it had come to his chin without him noticing. He went on, feeling for his side, but it hung empty.

“The prospect of you two being the first and only is possible. But the odds that more of you strangers have come to this planet is altogether more likely. Perhaps a portal is open and the armies of this other planet pour through already to sweep through nations like a reaper’s scythe.”

The thought of such devastation made the king smile. Smile and his eyes twinkle at odds with his words and the vision he saw.

“How wonderful.”

By now, the twins were exchanging looks of fear, because it was clear they stood before a madman, but the king only laughed. He spread his arms wide as he faced them.

“You do not understand. How could you? But think, for a moment, as a king would. Think as I would. Come.”

With one word, the King moved the twins’ unwilling feet. He strode over to one side of the room and yanked open a set of double doors. The red light of a fading sun blinded the two for a moment, but the King strode out onto the balcony.

“There.”

He gestured out across his balcony at the crumbling city below. People went to work in the streets, hauling poor harvests of Yellats to stalls that contained only cheap goods. They worked, never looking up at the palace and that balcony because they did not expect to see anyone there.

If they had—they would have seen that man, aged, showing the two children that faded sea of roofs and streets. They could not see the parades of armies, the cheering crowds he could still hear, the seven champions gathering in laughter and glory. He spread his arms as if showing them that past, and it was at odds with the reality he knew lay before him. The irony did not escape him, so his smile was bitter.

“Behold my empire. Once, each street was packed with people from every nation. Every storefront held goods brought from countless thousands of leagues away, and messengers sped to every corner of my expanding kingdom. By day and night my armies marched forth, and the world trembled to hear the clash of blades and my name on the lips of men.”

The twins looked out at the city, but couldn’t imagine the sight the king described. All they saw were crumbling bricks and ragged people walking without life. The gutters ran with filth, and what food was on display in the shops was rotten or rotting. The king gazed down upon his city and shook his head.

“Once. But I abandoned my dreams of conquest and let the nation I had built collapse around me. And why? Because my vision was too small and my goal too achievable. I had swept through a continent and brought low countless kingdoms and yet—it was an edifice of the moment, a paltry creation born of opportunity and luck. It was worthless. One moment of grief brought it tumbling down. I was unworthy of it, for all to spring up around me.”

The twins stared at the dying city below them. They shuddered as they saw the malnourished faces of the people below. The king glanced down at the two.

“You pity them?”

Both nodded, unguarded. Then they flinched, because they understood something of monarchs and knew it might be unwise to tell it to this man’s face. But he just nodded sadly as his smile became guilty. He gazed down, leaning on the balcony.

“Well and good. They deserve a better ruler than I. In my regret and self-indulgent misery, I have failed my subjects. But the fire in my soul had long been extinguished. I could barely stand. Until this day.”

He swept back into the throne room. The twins ran after him, drawn in his wake like minnows in the tide. The king ascended the dais of his throne two steps at a time and stood, looking down at the two twins. He seemed larger all of a sudden, and this was a man already commanding by physical presence alone.

“Once, my name echoed throughout the world! My deeds were spoken of in awe! And yet you have come here—come here, to the heart of my fading kingdom—to tell me that a greater world exists than I had ever dreamed?”

His voice thundered through the throne room. The twins gripped each other in mortal fear. The king pointed at them.

“And to be told that all I had accomplished in life—all the glories that empires dare to claim as their proud history—to be told that is nothing compared to the wonders of your world. Is that not intolerable? Yet, for all the strength of my armies, we cannot match a single—bomb. And though my [Mages] could labor a thousand years, they could not fly up to the twin moons in the sky and dare to land on them. Worse though…they never even dreamed of it. Land on the moons!”

He raised his arms and roared with laughter. The cavernous room echoed with the thunder of his voice.

“What a jest! What a challenge the heavens have sent me!”

The boy and the girl held each other. They had seen many things in life compared to the citizens of this world, or so they claimed. They had seen men and women flying, they had looked upon their world as a small orb of blue and green, they had witnessed armies marching on television screens and men walking upon the moon.

They had told him this proudly. Proudly and nervously, as if trying not to frighten him. They could not see how enraging their words were. Not the glory of it, but the caution.

As if he had not seen a woman fly through the air like a bolt of lightning. As if he could not order a spell cast and gaze across the world. Their world was a marvelous mystery they hailed from, and they were right to be proud of it.

—But they could not boast forever before him, the reality of that king. He beheld their home, if not fully, then in their stories of another planet where one species alone ruled. They told him of nations far more advanced and mighty than his.

And he? He laughed. The King threw back his head, and the [Soldiers] started from their posts. The laughter ran down the hallways, and a servant looked up at a sound she thought was a dream. The man backed up, stumbling up the steps of the dais, and he leaned on a golden armrest of his throne for support.

His laughter beat down upon the two twins like a physical thing. He laughed at their world, not mocking—but like a man who had never seen more than a creek suddenly beholding an ocean blown by a storm. Like a man who, at the edge of the sea where it met the shore of his dry continent, found two children who told him it was greater than the desert he called his home. With conviction, pointing across that wide, green-blue expanse all without having walked a mile of the journey of countless leagues that had borne him to this place.

The laughter. The passion. It was like a spark growing on dry grass. The [Soldiers] had heard it. So too had the servants.

The [Steward] had felt it. But he had dreamed so often that he came back from training in private, still angry—but drawn to the smoke in the palace. And the king?

He stood there, panting with his hilarity—and realized he was standing against the throne. He looked down at the chair and hesitated. Then—

As if his legs had grown tired from standing this short while. As if the throne drew him down. As if the weight of that circlet suddenly grew too heavy, and his conscience bloomed with water long lost from this land.

All at once, the king sat down on his throne. In a moment, his mirth was gone, and the insane energy that had filled him had been replaced. The twins did not understand the meaning—not quite—but they sensed it.

The air changed. One second, the man was but a man, arrogant and passionate, but not quite himself. Not quite real. Then he sat—and something filled the throne room.

It passed through the hallways, enveloped the palace, and spread across the city. Slowly, but growing second by second. A presence, a choice made. The figure with red-gold hair now seemed to smolder on his throne, and when he stood up again, he was a different man.

He was a [King]. He spread his arms and woke. Tears shone in his eyes. Tears, for it was done. He stood and stretched, and decades fell off him slowly. When he called out, his voice was fuller, surer, and he pointed down at the two children, who only began to realize what they’d done now.

“Come, then. Let us wake this sleeping nation and bring death and glory to this hollow world once more!”

He walked down from the dais and began striding across the throne room towards the double doors. The twins followed him, not daring to be left behind. The [King] called out.

“Orthenon!”

The King bellowed. He stopped beside the smaller chair and planted one foot on it.

“Orthenon! My [Steward]! Come to me!”

For a second, all was silence. And then the double doors opened, and a man entered the room. He was a tall, gaunt man who walked with unnatural grace across the marble floor. His hair was black and grey, for he too had aged, and he carried a long, slightly curved sword at one hip.

He wore black, almost like a servant of another time, but he too wore armor beneath cloth. What separated the two was that if the [King] was a man of passion, Orthenon’s own passions and personality were like a swinging blade. Precise—but the years had left rust on him as well.

These strange feelings in his chest, the two twins, and the familiar orders from that man had left him—unsettled. Angry. When he entered the throne room now, even his sure stride was slow—

But he did not see what he wanted. What he saw was the [King], foot upon that chair. While that pose should have tipped him off, he had missed the moment the man sat down on the throne.

That feeling was filling the air, but Orthenon’s own grief and wait were too long. All he saw was the chair, not the throne. So when he bowed, it was low, but with a cold, tired anger of an exhausted man waiting with arm raised, clinging to a cliff’s edge. Waiting, hoping, for the day that might never come.

That was all contained in his not-quite-glare as he approached his king.

“You summoned me, Lord?”

Lord. It was an insult borne of a despairing man. The [King] nodded; he saw it. Yet now, his eyes were dancing with anticipation. He was still smoldering from the inside, and the fire was growing, but his steward didn’t see it. Not yet.

“Tell me, Orthenon. What is the state of my kingdom?”

The man made a bitter face. He had heard this question before, and again, he missed the tone. He answered, glancing at the two twins, his voice growing rough with impatience and frustration.

“As I have told you time and again, sire, we are dying. This nation is crumbling away. Our enemies take our land, your vassals bend knee to foreign powers, and we cannot even feed our youngest.”

The [King] nodded. His eyes seemed to burn in the half-light. If Orthenon would look up—but he didn’t. The [Steward] continued talking, his voice slowly rising with passion as he listed the frustrations of years.

“Better nations have risen in the ashes. The Emperor of the Sands leads his armies across the deserts even now! The other nations break their armies upon his forces as he rises in the west. Nerrhavia sits fat and indolent to the south, and Medain pushes ever southwards against Jecrass and Belchan. While our people starve, Germina’s agents flit about, and the Quarass and Hellios test our borders. I have told you this time and time again, Lord! If you will not take the throne, why do you ask it of me?”

“Because I am your [King].”

Orthenon looked up. His look of rage changed to uncertainty, and his balled, gloved hand, almost curled as if to strike—suddenly became limp with disbelief.

Then he saw it. Two green eyes, roaring with a younger man’s passion. Burning—in a face too old but a heart too young.

Twenty-two years. It had aged the [King]—and not at all at the same time. He had been a prisoner here, a slumbering man of his own making, so it was a younger man mixed with an older one who stared down at the [Steward].

In that moment—Orthenon knew. The [King] stepped forwards and placed a hand on his shoulder. Just that. It trembled as his most loyal vassal looked into his eyes, and the king’s own shone with tears. And the fire spread from one man to the other.

“Rejoice, my steward. I have returned. I sit upon my throne at last.”

That was all the king whispered. For a moment, the gaunt man gaped. Then his eyes filled with tears. He clasped his King’s hand, and the two embraced for a moment.

“I had hoped—we have waited so long, Your Majesty—”

“I know.”

The [King] patted Orthenon gently as the man choked on his words. But in seconds, he had mastered his weeping and bowed low to the ground, one leg extended forwards as the other swept back. One hand on his chest as the other extended outwards. It was a different gesture than the stiff bow he had given earlier. The bow one gave to a ruler.

The [King] nodded in approval. He lifted his foot off the chair and picked it up with one hand.

“Never again. You have my word.”

With a sudden move, the King hurled the chair. It flew through the air across the room and shattered on the far wall, fifty feet away. The throw was so powerful the wood pulped and the old frame became a hail of splinters. The twins gaped as wood rained down. The man exhaled, nodded, and turned back towards his steward.

“Now then. Report, Orthenon. Tell me of my kingdom once more.”

Orthenon spread his hands out as he faced his king. His expression was conflicted as he spoke. Starvation and the pain of years weighed him down, and yet a fire was stirring in his eyes. He did not look as he had a few moments ago—a broken, exhausted man.

Something was filling him up. Now—the [Steward] felt lighter, and his own back straightened, and when his eyes flickered, truly thinking, not complaining or watching stone break and age—

—They were the eyes of a man who had seen nations burn. Who had led armies. Who stood behind the [King], at his side, and had driven armies of legend into the sea. Even so, his words were tinged with regret. Regret—and with a rising passion for what he knew would come.

“How can I report upon chaos, sire? I could list a thousand dire issues and still have a thousand more left unspoken. The kingdom is failing. Our treasury is empty, our people are starving, our crops have failed, our animals are dead, and our armories full of rust and decay. Every decent soldier save a loyal few have fled for greener lands, and we teeter on the precipice.”

“Wonderful.”

Orthenon stared at his king. The twins stared at the red-haired man too. They gaped at him as if he’d gone mad. But that too was being part of a [King], and he was used to their incomprehension. Slowly, the ruler tapped his palm with his other hand.

“We have never fallen so far before. My kingdom and I have sunk to our lowest. How wonderful. It shall make the coming days, weeks, and years all the greater. I repent it. I repent all I have done—but if there is one thing to take, Orthenon—let it be that when we amend these wrongs, let the first sip of water be sweeter, the first horn call the most passionate that all those who have waited have ever heard. I regret it—but rejoice in that, I beg you.”

The twins didn’t understand. But the embers began to burn, and Orthenon’s eyes flashed. The King looked out towards the balcony.

“What of those loyal to me? What of my vassals, those I chose to lead in my absence? Have they abandoned me as well?”

“Not abandoned, my king. But they were forced to bow or be broken by other nations. Even now, foreign armies hold your lands and impose their laws upon your people. From Sottheim to Tiqr—they are checked, suppressed, even if they would rejoice at hearing your voice.”

The [King] nodded. He swept towards his throne, and now the fire in him was fully lit. As he passed by the twins, they shivered uncontrollably. What was happening? The old man they had first met was gone, and in his place something fierce threatened to burn down the entire castle. The King was far larger than his mortal shell. Even his clothing seemed to be brighter than before.

“Send word to my vassals closest to me. Tell them they have three—no, two days to dispose of the worthless dogs that would grind their pride to dust. They will rejoin me here with as many warriors and youths of worth as they can muster. Then send word—covertly—to those further abroad.”

Orthenon hesitated.

“I am not sure they would believe it is you, sire. And it has been so long—some might turn away.”

The [King] stood by his throne. He pointed down at Orthenon.

“Then tell them this: I await them. And I shall raise my banners and set each place at my table myself. Until they have gathered here, I shall not rest upon this throne. But let the kingdom know and the world hear! I have returned!”

Orthenon touched a trembling fist to his breast. His eyes were blurred with tears, but he didn’t look away from his king for a second.

“Go!”

This time, the King’s voice was a roar. He shouted again, and it was thunder. It echoed through the throne room, out the double doors, and reverberated through the entire city. The twins thought they felt the ground trembling.

“Let this nation wake from its two-decade-long slumber! Let every hand grab sword and axe! Stand, all those who still remember my name! Hear me and obey! Reim, hear your [King]. Rise!”

The last word shook the air. The twins leapt forwards and then stopped. They didn’t know what they were doing, only that they had to move. The [King]’s voice seized something inside of them and struck sparks in their very souls.

Orthenon raced out of the room. The twins heard him shouting wildly, and then it was as if wildfire fueled by madness consumed the castle. The steward’s shouting was joined by another man shouting—not in panic or fury, but with joy. It was quickly joined by more voices, men and women crying out, and the pounding of footsteps.

The [Soldiers] and [Servants] had known—but like Orthenon, they hadn’t believed. They had begun to gather outside of the throne room, hoping, praying—if only they had known what prayers were.

But then the double doors had burst open and the [Steward] had come out, running and shouting the news. That dignified man, racing forwards like a boy?

They knew the moment they saw him standing there, laughing and shouting. Then they were running, following Orthenon, in a huge throng from every door in the palace, throwing windows open to scream the news.

And everyone who heard it, man or woman, flying bird-folk—they looked up. They felt the presence in the air, and then they were turning and screaming the news across the land.

From the castle, the commotion grew and spread into the city. Open-mouthed, the twins watched as a man ran into the street, screaming and shouting wildly. The people he passed looked up, and it was as if they caught the same wild passion from him. Some fell to their knees, others wailed or shouted, and more began running throughout the city or out the gates towards other villages.

Not a single person who heard the wild shouting was spared. The fire raged and spread to every soul in the kingdom. A dull roar of sound rose from the city and every part of the castle. It was deafening, wild; rejoicing mixed with relief and sadness and hope.

It was the sound of a city coming back to life. The din was so great, it reached across the kingdom in hours. From there, it spread to disbelieving ears, people who refused to hear the truth—but the echoes froze the hearts of the [King]’s enemies. It began to ring across the entire world.

The [King] strode out onto his balcony, and the people shouted, and the sound grew louder as they saw his face. He raised one hand, and the twins were nearly deafened by the noise.

He turned towards them. The light was fading, and the sun had nearly set. But the King glowed, and it may have been a trick of the lights or their imaginations, but the twins could swear the light formed a halo above his head. Or…not a halo.

A crown.

The man pointed at the twins, still surrounded by an aura of his very class.

“I have much to do. But you two. I will have you accompany me. You shall be my personal attendants. Bodyguards? Yes, bodyguards. I will properly train you to your role in the coming days.”

The twins gaped. They began to protest, but the King laughed. He listened to the boy speak, then the girl, and shook his head.

“Hah! It matters not what you wish. Your lives belong with me. You have awoken me—and for better or worse, our destinies are joined.”

He meshed his fingers together, looking so amused. For they did not know what they’d done, not truly. Again, they argued, but their words trailed off as they stood before the king. He looked down at them, surrounded by the dying glow of a sun and lit by an inner fire.

“These things you speak of. Freedom…? Liberty? Justice? Pah. They are not yours by right. If you would claim yourself, take arms against me. For I hold all these things.”

He gestured towards the city stirring into life.

“Know this: wheresoever I walk and so far as my reach extends, I claim this world and yours as my own. So long as you are within my grasp, I shall rule you. For I am…”

He hesitated. The man raised one hand, and the voices became thunder once more. It echoed out across the city and across a nation. He listened to the sound and murmured.

“Let the world take arms against me. Let the peoples of every race march upon my people, and let the earth itself open and the pits of hell and the Demons of Rhir spew forth. I care not. I welcome the coming strife! I am a king, and all those who would follow me are my people. I will not be stopped. The world is mine! Both worlds!”

The King spread his arms wide and laughed. The fire left the city and raced out across the countryside, spreading from person to person, bringing with it a single message. It echoed from every hill, in every street, and every heart. He shouted it from his crumbling castle at the heavens, and the word of it spread to every corner of the world.

“I am Flos Reimarch, The King of Destruction. Let the world know I have returned!”





1.25


The Hive was always dark. Always secluded from the light of the surface above. Even in the grandest chamber, where the two spoke—it was so dim as to disconcert every species but theirs.

Neither one minded. They had lived underground for ages before ever bothering to reach the surface. In the subterranean passages and the criss-crossing tunnels of the Hive of the Antinium in Liscor, two beings spoke.

One of them was female. The other was male. Klbkch. The female shifted, and in the darkness, her deep voice rumbled through the air.

“Do I understand you correctly, Klbkch? Do you truly believe sending Workers above is wise? If they become Aberration all together, Liscor’s Council will not remain silent. Have you confidence in this venture?”

Her voice was deep, and she spoke with more than mundane words. She was tired, so tired that even as she reclined, supine, her voice wearied, she seemed ready to fall asleep. Yet there was a core of will that never left her.

Sometimes, he thought she was the stronger of the two of them, for all she did not leave this place and labored endlessly. But then—

He was older. Older and wearier by far. Klbkch shook his head. He patiently tried to explain the necessity to her, and he could not articulate it even to himself.

“No, my Queen. I merely request that a few of the Workers—perhaps ten or twenty—may be allowed to leave the city in my care. They would visit a local inn for several hours before returning.”

“Interesting. So you have faith this venture may be rewarded?”

The word rolled outwards, rich, darkly velvet with hidden connotation and meaning. The Queen paused, and Klbkch hesitated.

“I regret that this is not my initiative, my Queen. She—the innkeeper of which I spoke—she requested it of me. I am merely representing our Hive in a unique opportunity. Not necessarily one I have faith in for the success we hope for.”

“Ah. I see.”

Surprise flicked through the female’s deep voice as it echoed in the cavernous chamber. Surprise and regret. But then she latched onto something else that was fascinating.

“This Human did? What species would desire the presence of Workers if not to work?”

That was what made Klbkch so interested himself. He lifted an antenna, like one lifted a finger.

“She did not ask for the Workers specifically. Rather, she was inclined to sell foodstuffs to our people. Acid Flies. She wishes to earn money by gaining our business.”

“And this Human is genuine? She does not fear the Antinium?”

“To the best of my knowledge and ability, I believe her so. Nor does she fear us, my Queen. It is as if she has no past with nor knowledge of the Black Tide.”

Again, surprise was the primary emotion in the female’s voice.

“And you think her worth spending your time and the Hive’s effort upon, even risking an Aberration.”

Klbkch hesitated. He bowed his head in the direction of the female.

“Her name is Erin Solstice, my Queen. And I believe—yes, I believe the experience may help further our plan in some small way. At the very least, it would help increase her trust of our kind. A rare opportunity.”

“And why should I entertain her request?”

Now she sounded petty. Tired and petty, for she saw no value in this. And he could not fault her, but Klbkch spread his hands outward. They were humanoid hands, at least in that they resembled them more than an insect’s feelers. The same could not be said of the appendages of the Queen.

“My Queen, do we no longer seek to improve relations with other species? Is this not why Liscor’s Hive was founded at such great effort? Drakes are one species; Humans would be a rare boon, even if she was but one representative predisposed to look kindly on us.”

The female moved in the darkness. Her voice changed, hissing softly in regret and frustration. She clicked in her distress.

“The plan has not changed, Klbkch. But we have. And not in the ways that we desire. I am weary, and you—ten years. No; the change comes from the others. The Grand Queen speaks. The other Queens once again question our lack of success.”

Klbkch looked up. His hands moved unconsciously to the twin swords at his waist. Not that he would bear blades against them. It was a sign of his emotions, a rare display.

“…Are any of their objections backed by orders? Have Xrn or Wrymvr made any objections of their own known?”

She waved a languid feeler at him.

“Not as such. Calm yourself, my Prognugator. My authority is undiminished, such as it is. And yet. The Queens move, Klbkch. They are waiting for an opening, and they would sacrifice us if they saw a chance to strike.”

The male Antinium looked up sharply. The antennae on his head twitched.

“Is that the position of the Grand Queen? If I may offer my counsel, that would be…unwise. The Hives are not ready.”

She nodded in the blackness.

“Yes. But they grow impatient with time. The Grand Queen speaks more than she acts. However, she is correct. We cannot continue this endeavor for nothing to show for it. Ten years. They speak of recalling us, idly for now. But they do speak. That is why I will allow this risk. Take twelve Workers. Let them visit this Solstice child. It may harm, but we have been a decade of failure.”

Her head bowed. Klbkch knelt on one segmented knee.

“Thank you, my Queen. I will not betray your trust in me.”

A great sigh echoed through the room, shifting Klbkch’s antennae as the air moved.

“Of that, I have no doubt. But I need more than your loyalty. Klbkchhezeim of the Centenium. I must have success. Can you promise me that?”

Her voice was so longing. Despair rang in every tone. Ten years, and ten years of failure for the Free Antinium and their Hive, despite their lofty boasts when they left. Klbkch felt it too. He was still as he knelt before her. Then Klbkch looked up and shook his head slowly.

“I cannot. But I will try.”

“Very well. Try, then.”

Klbkch nodded. He stood and began to stride out of the room with quick, light movements.

“Klbkch.”

He turned. In the darkness, a large feeler pointed at him, and a titanic shape moved. A weary voice spoke.

“Something must be done in the next few years. Some—tangible success. Or I will accede to the will of the others and pursue another project in the Hivelands.”

For a second, Klbkch froze. If she said that, she who had opposed the other five to do this? She who believed in everything? He looked at the Queen and bowed his head.

She was giving up, and he could not blame her.

“I will ensure that all goes well, my Queen. Erin Solstice is not hostile to our kind. I believe she will be a positive influence for them.”

“Then go. But there is one more thing I ask of you.”

“Yes, my Queen?”

The weary head rose, and the exhausted Antinium latched onto something Klbkch had mentioned. A loud clack as she moved her mandibles.

“Ahem. These flies…how do they taste?”

“I shall bring you a sample, my Queen.”

“Good.”



——



Erin was making a list.

“Okay, do I have everything? Let’s go over it again. Larder? Stocked. Check! Silverware? Lots of it, even if it’s not silver. Check!”

She turned and bustled over to another table.

“Blue fruit juice? Check. Four full pitchers and a basket of blue fruits.”

She’d stripped several trees in preparation for tonight. At this point, she’d eaten nearly half of the fruit in the orchard. Sooner or later, she’d run out of blue fruit, which might be a problem. How long did it take for the trees to grow new fruit? Maybe Pisces would know.

“Acid Flies? Check. Dead? Double check.”

It was almost sad how easily she caught them in her floating jar traps. Almost. Erin made sure they’d all exploded before she rolled them onto the grass. She thought the flat fish in the water were helping—they kept bumping into the jars, trying to eat the flies. She supposed that they might one day break the thick glass.

“Great. Bathe upstream from the glass jars from now on.”

She should also probably put warning signs up. Whom they might be warning, Erin had no idea. A certain Human necromancer stayed well away from the glass jars, and she wasn’t sure if Goblins could read. Either way, her list continued.

“Pasta? Wait, I don’t need any pasta.”

Unless Relc dropped by. But from what the Drake told her, he didn’t like Antinium besides Klbkch, so that was an outside chance. Erin put a pot on the stove anyways. She could always eat it.

The lovely thing about being near a city was that you didn’t have to make your own pasta. Instead, you could just buy it from an odd Gnoll-lady who knew exactly when you were on your period. In other words, there were advantages and disadvantages to living near a city.

“Okay. That’s about it. I’ve got bread in case Pisces comes by, and I even have cheese. Lovely, smelly cheese. Possibly from cows. And I just bet Klbkch is lactose intolerant too.”

Her larder was fully stocked, her plates and cups were clean, and she’d even gotten out the chess board and set it up. She thought Klbkch might be up for a game or two—that was, if she wasn’t busy feeding flies to her customers.

For a moment, Erin had to put her head against a wall and wonder how she’d gotten to this point in her life. A girl from Michigan should not think it was normal to sell dead fly torsos to walking ant-people for silver coins. She was also probably ripping them off, but Klbkch seemed willing to pay whatever it took for the flies. He’d eaten six bowls before he’d walked out.

Now all Erin had to do was wait until Klbkch came by with his promised friends. He said they’d come by as soon as they finished with their work. Were they all guardsmen? Erin had forgotten to ask.

Someone knocked on the inn’s door. Erin turned and opened the door with a big smile.

“Hi Klb—oh.”

The group of Goblins all took a nervous step back as Erin stared down at them. The eight—no, nine of them clustered together and shoved at their leader, a small Goblin wearing rags. Erin remembered.

“It’s—it’s you. Do you, um, want something?”

The ragged Goblin awkwardly thrust out a hand at Erin. She blinked down at the pile of dirty copper and silver coins in the small palm.

“Oh. Oh! You want to eat, right?”

The Goblin nodded stiffly. Erin opened the door and gestured inside.

“Right then, come in.”

The ragged Goblin hesitated. It thrust the coins at her once more.

Erin recognized the raggedy Goblin as the one she’d met first, and the others were new—maybe two were of the original four she’d found?

But this Goblin, the small one, Erin knew. So she smiled.

“Hey, Rags. How’s it going?”

That was her nickname for the Goblin who had the most tattered clothing. Her companions fidgeted behind Rags and glanced around. They seemed nervous, as if not certain this was wise, but Erin went on, voice calm.

“Do you want something in particular?”

The Goblin stared at Erin’s menu and then shook her head urgently. She thrust the coins forwards, and Erin let her pour them into her palms. Once again, another day of silence, so Erin filled it.

“How about I take the money, and I’ll feed you until it runs out, okay?”

Again, Erin received a blank look, but Rags seemed relieved when she took the money. Erin gingerly put the filthy pile of coins on the inn’s bar counter and wished she had hot water to go with the soap.

“Okay. Right. This isn’t the best time, but why don’t you have a seat over here with your friends?”

The Goblins meekly wandered over to the table Erin was pointing at and sat down. She hesitated. What next?

“Right, food.”

All nine heads shot up, and the Goblins stared at Erin. The ones she’d fed before were already drooling onto the table. It was the little Goblin, the Rags one, who watched Erin sharply as she hurried around.

“Give me five—ten minutes, and I’ll have all you can eat. I just need to put on another pot. And make some soup. But I’ve got bread!”

Erin turned. Okay, she’d stuff their faces quickly. She dashed into the kitchen and reemerged with a loaf of fresh bread she’d bought and some cheese and sausage. The Goblins stared hungrily as Erin began dumping plates in front of them. They flinched back from her, though, and when she handed them a fork, they ducked down as if they thought she were going to stab them with it.

“You can eat this while I get more food, okay?”

The Goblins stared at the food. Rags cautiously reached for the bread, and Erin grabbed her hand. All the Goblins flinched as one, and Rags recoiled, eyes wide, but Erin was staring at the filthy claws.

“Oh, er. Sorry about that. I’ll slice it up for you. I have water and soap. Here—”

Confused, the Goblins watched Erin dart into the kitchen again. They eyed the wonderful-smelling bread, meat, and strange yellow thing, and wondered if they could eat it. Then they looked up and screamed as Erin walked back into the room with a kitchen knife and a bucket.

“Oh no, don’t run! I’m not going to hurt you!”

Erin waved her hands frantically and nearly poked herself with the knife. The Goblins halted in their mad rush out the door. Erin put the bucket on another table and took a bar of soap and the dustrag out of her pocket.

“I’m just going to cut this food for you. See? And this is to wash your hands. Wash your hands. Because they’re gross.”

She slowly and carefully went over to the food and sliced it up into smaller pieces. Erin smiled at the Goblins as they suspiciously moved back to the table. Rags was eying Erin with deep, deep distrust for the knife. But she was also eying the water and soap with clear confusion. Erin stepped back.

“And now I’ll put the knife away. No more pointy thing. You don’t have to worry; you’ll be safe here. Okay? But wash your hands. It’s unhygienic.”

She gave them another reassuring smile. That was the precise moment when Klbkch entered the inn, followed closely by a group of Antinium. Erin’s smile froze on her lips.

Klbkch froze too, and the other tall, identical brown and black insects behind him instantly halted in their tracks. The Goblins were petrified in their seats, but half immediately began edging towards the nearest window.

Erin waved frantically at Klbkch. Then she turned towards the Goblins and gave them another reassuring smile.

“Don’t worry! Don’t worry. These people aren’t here to hurt you. They’re guests. They’re going to eat too, understand?”

They hesitated, but Rags seemed to be made of sterner stuff than her larger comrades. She returned to her seat. And it was a she, Erin was sure of it. The other Goblins—all but one of whom were boys—didn’t wear anything on their upper torso. They barely wore anything to cover their privates.

She shepherded them back to their seats and tried not to look at Goblin nether regions as their loincloths shifted in unfortunate ways. There was a reason pants were invented.

“Go ahead and eat as much as you want.”

Again, the Goblins glanced nervously at the Antinium, but now that the initial scare was over, the fresh food called to them. There was a moment’s hesitation, then Rags grabbed a piece of sausage, and the Goblins began gobbling all the food on the table with their hands.

She winced at the mess, but at least they were occupied. Erin edged back to Klbkch, who was still waiting with his group of Antinium.

“Hi, Klbkch. Sorry about the confusion. I had a few visitors pop by unexpectedly.”

“There is no problem, Miss Solstice. I have brought others of my kind as you requested.”

Klbkch nodded to Erin and gestured to the silent Antinium behind him. Erin eyed her new guests somewhat apprehensively.

They were like Klbkch and not like him at the same time. They were like each other though. Erin couldn’t tell one from the other, and all twelve of these other Antinium stood and moved like one unit.

What made her stare was that they were identical to Klbkch. They had the same brown carapace and waving antennae. Four arms, beetle shell—but you could say that of Humans.

What was meant by identical was exactly the same. Unlike a Human, who had a world of variation in hair and lips, even of the same color, the Antinium were carbon copies of one another.

Only Klbkch stood out because of his swords at his waist and armor and belt. The other Workers silently lined up, standing in two neat rows. And they also seemed disinclined to talk. Each one of the Antinium stared at Klbkch rather than look at Erin.

“Are they—are they your friends? Or other guardsmen?”

Klbkch shook his head.

“I am afraid you are under a misapprehension. These are Workers, Miss Solstice. They are not fellow guardsmen—rather, they perform tasks within the Antinium section of the city. I took them because you wished for more customers, but I have not interacted with them before.”

“Oh. So they’re not your friends?”

Klbkch opened and closed his mandibles a few times. He turned around and stared at the Workers before turning to Erin. He clacked his mandibles a few times, and then, to her astonishment, made a laughing sound.

“Ha. Hahahaha. That is a good joke, Miss Erin. No, these are Workers. They will behave themselves under my supervision.”

She was so surprised that she made no response, which Klbkch took as encouragement. He turned towards the standing group of Worker Antinium and pointed to a few of the tables.

“You have entered an inn. The polite protocol is to introduce oneself and then take a seat. I will handle your greetings. Move to those tables.”

They obediently walked over to each table. At first, they all crowded around one, but Klbkch impatiently directed them so the Antinium stood four to a table.

“Sit!”

Klbkch snapped at the other Antinium. They instantly sat in the chairs. Erin’s smile slipped even further as Klbkch began ordering them about with curt, clipped commands.

He treated the other Antinium like—well, like sheep. Or…like children. Idiotic children you couldn’t trust to pick up a fork without stabbing themselves in the eye. Yes, that was it.

Erin watched Klbkch out of the corner of her eyes as he lectured the other ‘Workers.’ He was telling them how to use a spoon. And how to drink from a cup. And how to request another bowl of flies.

Flies. They stared at the black insects, and even the Goblins looked confused, if not horrified by the loaded bowls. Black insects, dead and staring and icky, but Erin brought them out.

“Um, thanks, Klbkch. Did you want me to get the food now? I’ve got the Acid Flies of course, but I also have pasta—”

Erin’s eyes widened.

“Oh no! The pasta!”

The Goblins and Antinium watched as Erin dashed into the kitchen to salvage the over-boiled noodles. She came out a few minutes later holding plates of pasta with chopped bits of sausage and onion, which she placed in front of the Goblins.

“Use forks. Got it? Your friend here knows how to use forks.”

Erin pointed at the silverware and then started bringing out bowl after bowl of the Acid Flies she’d prepared. She set them down in front of the Antinium Workers awkwardly. They moved out of her way, but didn’t say anything.

That was, until Klbkch snapped at them, and then all twelve murmured ‘thank you’ every time Erin brought out a plate and cups.

They could speak! Their voices sounded like Klbkch’s—but flat. Lacking intonation or emotion. And that was the only thing they ever said. They moved when spoken to and did whatever Klbkch said—beyond that, they just waited, as if they were robots expecting input. Yet they were people, right?

So was this an awkward moment? Yes. Erin was redefining the word for herself at the moment.

However, she placed all the bowls in front of the twelve Workers, and the Antinium finally began to eat on Klbkch’s command. At least there they appeared to be somewhat enthusiastic, because they began gobbling the Acid Flies down with commendable speed, shoveling them past their mandibles with a spoon and crunching the insects up. But for that, they ate in silence, which was also unnerving. At least they were eating.

Erin breathed a sigh of relief. And the door to the inn swung open.

A familiar Drake poked his head into the room. He immediately launched into what sounded like a prepared speech as he awkwardly held a chess set in front of him.

“Good evening, Miss Erin Solstice! I hope you don’t mind me dropping by, but I was wondering if you’d like to play a game of ch—”

Olesm paused and stared around the silent room. His jaw dropped as he saw the Goblins. When he saw Klbkch and the other Antinium, it dropped further. He slowly put one clawed hand on the door.

“…Is this a bad time?”



——



Erin had gone to funerals. Well, she’d attended a funeral. And while they were solemn, sad occasions, she could rightly say that she’d visited funerals that were noisier than her inn at the moment.

At least funerals had coughing people, the occasional sniffling, fidgeting children, and crying babies. In the Wandering Inn, all Erin could hear was the mastication of Goblins as they gobbled their food or the quiet cracking as the Antinium chewed down their Acid Flies and clicked their mandibles together.

Chomp. Chomp. Click. Chomp.

Erin stared from the Antinium to the Goblins with a desperately cheerful smile plastered on her face. Neither side looked at the other directly, but she had the distinct impression they were silently sizing each other up. The Goblins to run away, the Antinium…well, they were just looking.

The atmosphere was so tense you could—well, Erin was pretty sure pulling a knife out would be a disaster. The Goblins were nervously eying the Antinium, and the Antinium were frighteningly silent and uniform. They ate and moved in almost perfect synchronization.

Erin circulated the room, pitcher of fruit juice in hand. She filled cups, took away plates and refilled them with food, and instructed Goblins not to pick their noses. It felt like being a waitress for an entire restaurant by herself, but Erin was up to the challenge. At least, she hoped she was.

She wasn’t taking orders or cleaning up plates yet. All she was really doing was making sure there was food in front of her guests. The Goblins were easy. They ate anything she put in front of them. They were also terrified of Klbkch, the Antinium, Olesm, and Erin.

Only the one with ragged clothing, the tiny one, seemed brave enough to inspect the soap after Erin made them wash their hands. She kept peering around, surreptitiously, then springing to attention and pretending to be eating. Then Erin would catch her peeking at the menu and moving her lips, as if trying to read it.

But the Workers? They were hard. Erin had to make sure none of them had empty bowls or cups or they’d just stop eating. They didn’t even ask for refills by themselves.

In a lull between serving, Erin stopped in front of Klbkch and Olesm’s table. The two were talking quietly together, which made them exceptionally noisy in the dead silence.

“How’re you two boys doing?”

Both Olesm and Klbkch looked at each other to make sure they were the ones Erin was talking to. Olesm gave her a weak smile.

“I’m quite well, Miss Solstice. Or—may I call you Erin?”

“Please. I’m getting sick of being called Miss Solstice. I feel like my mom.”

“My deepest apologies. I was not aware this was an insult to your culture.”

Klbkch bowed his head, which made Erin feel guilty. She just meant her mom…

Her mom. Erin’s heart and mind twinged, and she changed the subject fast.

“Are you two enjoying your meal? Anything I can get you?”

“Another glass of the blue juice perhaps?”

Olesm raised his glass, and Erin topped it off. He smiled at her.

“It is quite tasty.”

“Thanks.”

They both paused awkwardly. They were just as bad as the Goblins and Workers! Olesm glanced around the inn and fidgeted.

“Do you—do you always serve Goblins in your inn? I saw the sign, but I must admit, this is the first time I’ve ever seen a Goblin not trying to stab someone or running away. They’re monsters, you know.”

He tried to whisper it, but in the silent inn, his voice carried. As one, the Goblins stopped eating and stared over at Olesm. He flinched. Yet he gave Erin a look as if she had just invited hyenas into her inn. She gave him a level stare and decided to start with the basics.

“Um, no. They’re new here too.”

“Oh, I see.”

More silence. Erin glanced down at the table. The Drake Tactician had brought along his chess board, and although he’d set it aside for the food, she saw him glancing at it now and then. To break the ice, and because she thought she might die of awkwardness, Erin did the only thing that came to mind. The most obvious thing—at least, to her.

“How about a game of chess? Anyone want to play?”

Klbkch and Olesm looked up.

“Oh, I would love to play—”

Olesm caught himself. He glanced around guiltily at the other diners.

“But I wouldn’t want to take you away from your work. Perhaps another time.”

He looked so downcast that Erin wanted to pat him on the head. She thought for a second and then smiled.

“Oh, don’t worry. We can still make it work. I’ll play you and serve food.”

Both Klbkch and Olesm eyed her incredulously. Erin grinned.

“I don’t suppose either of you are familiar with chess notation?”



——



Two minutes later, the most interesting thing was happening. Workers and Goblins watched as Erin stood with her back to the chess board. It was all set up.

Both the littlest Goblin and the Worker who swept were here. It was pure coincidence that Klbkch had ordered the same group of Workers who had dug out the door to come to the inn—or perhaps he had simply found it easiest to take them out since they had no assignments yet.

As for the littlest Goblin, she’d brought a bunch of other Goblins to show them that the one who had killed the Chieftain was not…not…

She had brought them here to see. Many hated the Human. But she fed them. She was…more than the death of the Chieftain and two Goblins, and because the littlest Goblin said it, some listened.

Not all. Even the littlest Goblin didn’t know if the Human was good—she hung out with the Ant monsters! The most terrifying deaths who came from below if you went to the wrong places. And she kept calling the littlest Goblin a stupid name.

‘Rags.’ What did that mean? Yet the littlest Goblin watched avidly because she was as curious as the listening Workers. The Workers did not understand this inn. The rules were unknown to them and Klbkch kept correcting them. They were terrified of doing something wrong and becoming Aberrations, but now they heard something fascinating. Something…with clear rules that made sense.

Intriguing. The [Innkeeper] was speaking to Olesm, who was fiddling with the chess board, and she was giving instructions to him and Klbkch, but also the inn at large.

“Okay, so you’ve moved your pawn up two spots. That’s E4, so just tell me you’re moving a pawn to E4, got it? And when I want to move, I’ll let you know by saying, oh, pawn to D5.”

Olesm nodded and glanced down at the chess board. He carefully moved the black pawn up two spots and looked up at Erin. She nodded.

“Got it?”

“I believe so, Erin.”

“Right. Let’s play!”

Erin spun away from Olesm and grabbed a cup and filled it. Across the room, Klbkch and Olesm bent over the chess board and conferred. Olesm moved a piece.

“Pawn, ah, Pawn to F3, Erin.”

“Got it! Knight to C6!”

Erin concentrated on the game as she walked around the inn. She wasn’t conscious of how the Goblins slowed in their eating and the Antinium Workers paused from their meal to follow her around the room. Erin’s thoughts focused, and as she mechanically took plates and filled them with food, her mind focused on only one thing.

The game. Some called golf the greatest game ever played. They might be right. But Erin loved chess.

She could even play it in her head.



——



“Bishop to D6.”

“Hm. In that case, I’ll move…um, I believe that’s Pawn to D4.”

“Queen to H4! Check!”

Erin said it instantly and grinned to herself. She heard Olesm groan in dismay.

“Ah. Then—then Pawn to G3?”

Again, Erin replied almost before he’d finished speaking.

“Bishop takes Pawn at G3!”

“Pawn takes Bishop at G3.”

“And I’ll take your Rook at H1.”

Erin grinned to herself as Olesm hissed in distress. In her mind’s eye, she saw her queen piece sitting in the corner of Olesm’s side of the board, nestling right up against all of his lovely, undefended pieces.

The game continued, but only as mop-up. Erin happily munched away at Olesm’s pieces with her queen. He eventually managed to take hers out with his own, but only after he’d lost another knight and a bishop. By then, Erin had more pieces than he did on the board and in better positions, too.

“I concede.”

Olesm tipped over his king and stared despondently at the board. Erin paused serving sliced up sausage to the Goblins long enough to see Klbkch pat Olesm on the shoulder consolingly.

“It was a good game.”

The Drake shook his head.

“You do me too much credit. I made several errors that cost me many pieces. But I believe you had me from the start. Without looking at the board once! Would you do the kindness of showing me where I made mistakes?”

He seemed shaken, but Erin was delighted to play the game. Much less in her head! She felt like a kid again, and she used to do this all the time in the school bus or when she was bored. These days, you could do everything on a phone, but…she beamed happily, as only someone who loved the game could.

“Of course.”

Erin walked over to the table. She rearranged the board until it was back to normal and then moved Olesm’s pawn up two spaces.

“You started out with a classic: the King’s Pawn Opening. That was a good move.”

Olesm looked blankly down at the board.

“I just moved my pawn to E4. Was that truly a noteworthy move to have a strategy named after it?”

Erin nodded happily.

“Oh, it’s a classic. Did you know almost a quarter of all chess games start with it? It’s great for taking the center spaces, but unfortunately for you, I love playing against that move.”

Klbkch raised one hand.

“Do you mean to say that there are established counters to this opening? And that this move is a chronicled…strategy? I had not heard of that.”

Neither had Olesm, but Erin was too enthusiastic to notice Klbkch’s cautionary tone or Olesm’s confounded one. She nodded and pushed a black pawn forwards.

“Oh, there are lots of good strategies. I countered with an old favorite—the Sicilian Defense. It’s great against the King’s Pawn, but you made a mistake when you moved that pawn up to F3. It doesn’t open up your side for many pieces to get out, and you really want a knight to put pressure on my side of the board. Of course, you could try to take my pawn, but that leaves your center open. Most players try to push forwards aggressively, but that’s why the Sicilian Defense works so well since it means you have to lose a pawn if you want to push into the other side.”

Erin paused and looked around the inn. Olesm was wearing a half-glazed, half-delighted expression on his face. The Goblins and all the Antinium, including Klbkch, were staring at her, open-mouthed.

“Uh, sorry. I tend to lecture when I get too into chess.”

“No—don’t worry in the slightest, Miss Erin.”

Olesm shook his head and smiled at her. His eyes were alive with interest, and she noticed his tail wagging like a dog’s on the ground.

“You have such a deep understanding of this game! How is it that you know so much about chess? I only heard about it when someone told me the Titan was playing it a few years ago, yet you say there are strategies already in place?”

“Yes?”

Erin crossed her fingers as Olesm shook his head. Klbkch clacked his mandibles.

“…I believe there are players of this game on every continent, Olesm. We appear to be in the presence of a master.”

“Indeed, indeed! I suppose it’s arrogance to think that I knew everything. Why, they might be doing this in a Walled City like Pallass…and you’re kind enough to keep me from looking like some back-country rube. Thank you, Miss Solstice.”

Erin nodded at Klbkch in relief, and he twitched a mandible at her. She really hoped she wouldn’t have to explain being from another world. Erin glanced at Klbkch and wondered if she should play him next. Then she looked at Olesm and Klbkch together and had an idea.

She grinned wickedly.

“Yeah, I love playing chess. In fact, I’ll play both of you at the same time, if you want. We have two boards, after all.”

Olesm and Klbkch shared a glance. Both frowned slightly. Well, Olesm frowned and Erin had the distinct impression that Klbkch was frowning.

“Aren’t you taking us a bit too lightly, Erin?”

She blinked innocently at Olesm.

“Me? Of course not. But I bet I can play both of you while serving drinks and food and win against at least one. Want to test my theory?”

They did. Erin grinned to herself as both Olesm and Klbkch set up their pieces on opposite sides of the room. Each player stared intently at their board. She could practically feel the intensity coming off of each. It reminded her of the adults she used to play as a kid. No one liked being trash-talked by a middle schooler. It was hard for her to keep a straight face.

Klbkch moved first. Erin stared at his board and then decided to move a piece on Olesm’s board while she thought. She circulated the room, filling up the glasses with what little fruit juice she had left. When Olesm made his move, Erin decided to hit Klbkch with a knight. And then she went back into the kitchen for more pasta. Those Goblins could eat.

The games continued as Erin filled up bowls with the dead flies and handed them out to the Workers. They happily chomped down the flies, but she had the distinct impression they were watching as she travelled back and forth between Klbkch and Olesm’s boards.

Occasionally, Erin would wait while one of the other two players moved a piece, but when she did move from board to board, she attacked fast, seemingly without pausing to think. She could see Klbkch and Olesm watching her as much as the board, but she effortlessly continued playing both players while serving her guests.

Her audience watched the dual games intently. Erin kept an eye on them as well and saw both Rags and the Antinium Workers staring hard at Klbkch and Olesm’s pieces. The Goblin’s eyes narrowed, and the Antinium appeared confused. Erin smiled to herself, but kept sweeping around the room, refilling cups and swiftly moving pieces on each board.

Eventually, the game ended with a win for Klbkch and a loss for Olesm.

“Congratulations, Klbkch. And to you, Erin.”

“Indeed. I am quite impressed by your ability.”

Erin smiled at both players and tried not to laugh.

“Yeah, it was a good game. Too bad I wasn’t playing either of you.”

“What?”

She pointed down to the chess board in front of Olesm. His King was cornered by a queen and a bishop.

“Notice anything similar about Klbkch’s board, Olesm?”

He looked over. On Klbkch’s side, he’d cornered Erin’s king with a bishop and a queen. In the exact same spots as the pieces on Olesm’s board.

“What is this?”

“I played you two against each other. It’s the oldest trick in the book—I once heard of a guy who tried it against two Grandmasters and failed. I always wanted to do it just once.”

Erin smiled as Klbkch and Olesm exclaimed and then raised her hands as they immediately demanded another match. She was setting up the boards for a real dual game when something happened.

One of the Workers stood up.

Instantly, Klbkch stopped setting up his pieces and let one of his hands fall down to his side. Erin saw he was holding his sword hilt as he stood up.

“What are you doing, Worker?”

Klbkch’s voice was cold and hostile. The Worker froze in pure terror, or so it seemed—then meekly bowed to him. And then? He opened his mandibles and spoke.

“This one would watch, Prognugator.”

His statement confounded Erin, who hadn’t thought the Workers had any desires, and Klbkch himself. The [Guardsman] replied slowly.

“…Watch?”

Klbkch glanced down at the board and then back to the Worker. He seemed uncertain.

“It is impolite to intrude or impede the innkeeper’s path.”

Erin hastily interposed herself between Klbkch and the meek Worker who was already retreating back to his seat. She beckoned him over.

“It doesn’t bother me, Klbkch. Let him watch. An audience for a chess game is great.”

Klbkch hesitated.

“I would not wish to impose on your hospitality or patience—”

“Impose away, by all means!”

Erin rode over his protests and pulled up another chair. She steered the Worker over to the chair without touching him and made him sit down. Then she noticed the other Workers and Goblins were staring at the chess boards too.

“Come on over if you want to watch, all of you.”

Instantly, there was a crowd surrounding both chess boards. Olesm and Klbkch blinked at the spectators, but Erin smiled happily.

“Okay, now let’s do this so it’ll be fun for me and you. I’ll play you both, but we only get five—okay, ten seconds for each move.”

“Is this another way of playing chess?”

“It’s how some games are played, yeah. This style is called Lightning Chess, but in tournaments, you can have anywhere from an hour’s time in total to think of all your moves to only three minutes. If we had a clock we could—never mind, I’ll explain it as we play, okay?”

Klbkch and Olesm nodded. Erin took a chair and placed it between both tables so she could reach both chess boards.

“I’ll have to sit down for this. I’m no Grandmaster.”



——



The first two rounds of games, Erin won handily. But in the third game, Olesm scored a draw. Klbkch nodded as he saw the blue Drake raise his claws and open his mouth with joy.

“Congratulations, Olesm.”

Erin covered a yawn and massaged at her back. She gave the elated Drake a weary smile.

“Yeah, that was a great game!”

“Why, thank you.”

Olesm’s scales turned a light shade of red as he shook Klbkch’s hand. His tail thrashed around wildly on the floor, but Klbkch and Erin pretended not to notice.

“I must say, it’s quite amazing—I feel relieved to have finally tied a match against you, Erin. I was beginning to think it was impossible.”

She blushed and waved a hand at him. It felt extremely embarrassing to be treated like some kind of chess genius, especially since she knew she wasn’t. Erin was about to suggest a rematch with different rules when she looked over at the watching Worker Antinium.

“Do you want to play?”

The Antinium she was addressing sat up in his seat and bowed to her. Quickly, Klbkch sat up, but the Worker spoke before he did.

“This Worker would not presume to…play.”

Erin frowned. Did that mean he wanted to play but he was afraid to?

“Why not give it a shot? I’ll teach you how to play, and we can always make more chess boards. All we need is a few pieces of paper and a pen.”

She went into the kitchen and pulled out a few pieces of paper and a quill and ink. It had made her feel like a wizard when she’d first bought the quill, and then she’d wished for a computer and a printer five seconds after she’d had to actually dip the quill every few words when she wrote.

As her guests watched, Erin drew a rough chess board on a piece of parchment and then tore up other pieces. She carefully drew symbols on them to show which were pawns and which were other pieces and put the makeshift chess board on the table. She put two of the Antinium Workers in chairs facing each other across the board.

It was the most low-key chess board Erin had ever seen, but the Antinium stared at the scraps of paper with total concentration.

“Okay, so how much did you guys see when I played chess with Klbkch and Olesm? Do you know how to set up the board?”

Instantly, both Antinium moved. Erin recoiled for a second, but they merely rearranged the pieces on the chess board with mechanical precision. In seconds, each side was set up. Erin blinked at them.

“Good. Good. And, uh, show me how this piece moves?”

Obediently, the Antinium Worker moved the piece forwards.

“And can you move it from left to right?”

“This one does not believe so.”

Klbkch hovered over the board. As always, he had few features Erin could read, but he appeared distressed for some reason.

“Address her by her title.”

The Antinium instantly bowed his head at Erin.

“Apologies, Innkeeper Solstice. This one does not believe the pawn piece moves left and right.”

Erin gave Klbkch a half annoyed glance, but turned back to the Worker.

“Right, that’s true! Very good. And show me how it takes a piece?”

He showed her.

“Good. But did you know there’s one more move the pawn can do?”

Instantly, the other Antinium and the Goblins watching the game were filled with attention. They stared as Erin showed them how to take a piece en passant and explained the unique rules around that action. The Antinium she was coaching immediately bowed its head to her.

“This one was unaware of this fact. This one apologizes to Innkeeper Solstice for its failure.”

“What? Don’t apologize. Not many players know about that move. How could you? Now, let’s have you play a game with your friend.”

Erin stepped back as the two Antinium Workers stared at each other in silence. For a moment, she was afraid they’d do nothing, but then the first Worker moved his pawn up to E5. After a moment, the other Workers replied with the Sicilian Defense, and then the game was on.

Piece after piece moved with minimal pausing in between. At first, Erin was afraid they were recreating her games with Klbkch and Olesm, but the two players were playing their own game. It took her a while to realize they were still playing by Lightning rules. Once she’d explained they could take their time, the game slowed.

Erin stared at the two Workers playing each other in complete silence and then looked around at her audience.

“Anyone else want to play?”



——



Silence. It was the sound of funerals and churches, except that it wasn’t. Rather, it was the sound you thought should be in such places, but really was more like an ideal goal than the truth.

It was the sound of chess tournaments, though. Erin circulated the inn, filling plates with dead flies and pouring water (she’d run out of blue juice), and felt like she was home as she listened to the click of chess pieces moving, or, more often, the shuffling of dry paper.

“Oh. How’s the game going? Anyone want more flies? How about pasta? A cup of jui—water?”

Erin passed by each board and watched as Antinium and even Goblins played each other. There were eight boards set up, and the players rotated with each other once someone lost.

Her natural instincts as a chess player warred with her desire to give the new players advice. She compromised by letting Olesm and Klbkch offer commentary and then dissected games after they’d been played out by recreating them and pointing out good or bad moves.

The Antinium Workers watched Erin’s every move and listened to her words with frightening attention. She’d heard the word ‘rapt’ used to describe people, but never had she met a group so completely focused as the Workers. It was frankly unnerving, but her love of explaining chess moves and strategies more than made up for the awkwardness.

That was one thing. But what really amazed Erin and even Olesm and Klbkch were the Goblins. They were playing chess.

Okay, not well and not quickly, but the Goblins were sitting down and giving each other spirited, if not particularly well thought out games. The exception was the smallest Goblin, Rags, who had actually beaten two of the Antinium Workers back-to-back.

Erin stopped in front of one of the real chess boards as Rags slid into the seat opposite. It was technically Klbkch’s turn to play, but the Goblin stared at her. It was an obvious challenge.

“I’ll play you, if you want. You’re white, so go ahead.”

Rags eyed Erin defiantly and moved her knight first. Erin hid a smile.

“Oh, the Baltic Opening, huh? Well…”

She moved a pawn two squares up directly in front of the knight. It was her favorite way to deal with that opening move. Rags frowned and then moved another piece. And then another. For a while, the Goblin looked like a strange, green kid playing chess. That was until she opened her mouth and Erin saw the sharp teeth. But Rags still looked a lot less threatening than before.

Erin crushed her while she served the last of her pasta to the Goblins and had a bite to eat herself.



——



The Goblin challenged her three more times while Erin played Olesm and then two of the Workers. Each time, Rags handily lost, but Erin was impressed by the way the small Goblin was willing to try new strategies. She said so.

“You guys could learn a lot from her. Most of these moves are actually established patterns. Okay, moving the rook right away wasn’t a good choice, but you’re better than most beginners.”

She smiled at Rags. The Goblin fidgeted in her chair and looked away.

Klbkch nodded, and Olesm expressed an interest in playing the Goblin. Erin looked over at the Workers. They were eying her surreptitiously. She had the impression they wanted to play her too.

She clapped her hands together and smiled.

“Now then. Anyone else want to play another game?”



——



“And that’s checkmate.”

Olesm looked up from his king and shook his head despairingly.

“Another fine game, Erin. I wasn’t aware of your trap until you moved your bishop up.”

Erin yawned and grinned sleepily at him. Around her, the Goblins sat or lay on the tables, sleepily watching the game.

“You keep giving away too many pawns. They’re more valuable than you think.”

Olesm bowed his head and nearly toppled over. He jerked upright and nodded at her.

“I shall keep it in mind, Erin.”

She nodded and yawned again.

“Anyone want to play another game? Klbkch?”

The ant man shook his head. He glanced towards the door and at the Workers still playing chess. They were still intensely staring at the paper chess boards without any sign of fatigue.

“It is late. I am afraid we must take our leave, Miss—Erin. If I may address you in that way.”

Erin blinked at Klbkch and then looked out the window.

“Oh, of course you can call me that, Klbkch. And wow, it is late!”

She stood up. Immediately, the Workers stopped playing chess and stood too. They bowed to her.

“Allow me to thank you and pay you in their place, Erin.”

Klbkch handed her a bag of silver and gold coins. Erin blinked down at it.

“Oh. That’s a lot.”

“It is only fair payment for what we have consumed. And, might I trouble you to ask for a container of Acid Flies? I wish to bring some back to Liscor.”

“What? Oh, sure. I’ve actually got a huge glass jar. Do you want it?”

“Please.”

Erin ended up giving Klbkch a huge jar full of Acid Flies for a gold coin. She felt guilty about it, but the Antinium insisted it was a fair price. He left with Olesm and the Workers in tow, and Erin saw the Goblins off as they slowly streamed out of her inn.

“Come again! I’ll feed you lot another meal if you come by. You don’t need to pay—you paid me enough this time. Okay?”

The Goblins grunted or waved their hands awkwardly at her. They filed out of the inn, patting their stomachs happily.

The paper chess board and pieces were in a big pile. The Goblins seemed less keen on them—perhaps because they thought this inn was their chess spot to play in safety. Klbkch had told Erin giving the Workers the game was not a good idea. So she silently waited until he was talking with Olesm by the door and handed a Worker the entire stack. The Worker promptly hid the papers behind its back and shuffled towards the door with the others.

The last Goblin, Rags, paused as she walked by Erin. The small Goblin held her hands tightly at her side.

“Hey.”

Erin tapped Rags on the head. She held out her hand. Silently, the small Goblin handed her the pawn back as the other Goblins glared at her.

“No stealing. Besides, a chess board isn’t complete without all the pieces.”

Rag’s eyes lit up. Erin narrowed hers.

“That doesn’t mean you can steal them either. If you want to play a game, come back any time. Okay?”

For a while, the little Goblin hesitated and then nodded. Erin smiled.

“Have a good night.”

She closed the door. Then she bolted it and made sure all the windows were fastened tight. She didn’t mind the small Goblin, but she was damned if she was going to let it walk off with her chess set.



——



“Um, Senior Guardsman Klbkch? May I have a word?”

Klbkch paused as he walked swiftly back to Liscor. He was setting a fast pace, and Olesm was struggling to keep up.

“My apologies, Olesm Swifttail. I had forgotten you were with us.”

“No, it’s nothing.”

Olesm gasped and wheezed as Klbkch slowed. The Workers behind him silently adjusted their pace to give the two room.

“I just wanted to talk to you—if I may.”

“Certainly. May I ask if you are addressing your comment to the liaison of the Antinium or Senior Guardsmen Klbkch?”

“Both, I believe. Um, how shall I put this?”

Olesm paused as the two strode through the night. Klbkch waited patiently until the Drake began.

“As the [Tactician] who liaisons with the Council and other guilds and the guard, I am privy to some confidential information. I am, uh, aware of the situation with the Workers within the Antinium. R-regarding Aberrations and how they appear.”

“Indeed?”

Klbkch’s voice was flat. He was normally quite friendly, but this statement instantly put him on guard and small wonder. The Watch and the Council were there to check the Hive as a threat.

Olesm glanced nervously behind him at the Workers. They silently stared back at him.

“Will—will this be a problem, do you think?”

Klbkch hesitated. He looked back, and the Workers instantly looked down at the ground.

“We shall see. They will be observed as usual, and I will personally supervise them.”

“Ah, good, good. I wouldn’t ask, but I know that these kinds of things have, uh, dire consequences. This isn’t to say that I’m against taking a few Workers out under supervision, but the Watch Captain and Council—”

Klbkch turned and faced Olesm. The [Tactician] stopped nervously, but Klbkch merely bowed respectfully.

“I understand your concerns. If it helps, I will address this topic in my monthly report to inform you of any significant changes. I shall note our conversation and these instances most rigorously in my report to Captain Zevara.”

Olesm sighed in relief.

“Thank you. Yes, that’s perfect! Just so we have a written record.”

They went on, and Klbkch resumed their conversation in a more casual manner, to Olesm’s relief.

“I trust you have enjoyed yourself tonight?”

“Oh, yes. Very. Erin—that is, Miss Erin Solstice is quite a remarkable Human, isn’t she?”

“Indeed.”

“Quite remarkable.”

“Her mastery of the game of chess may be unmatched within the continent.”

“Absolutely.”

“Indeed.”

A moment of painful silence. Then Klbkch’s head rotated slowly, and he said something completely unexpected.

“…Would you like to play a game after this, by any chance?”

Klbkch glanced at the Drake, and Olesm hesitated. Senior Guardsman Klbkch was a known figure in Liscor who had won his approval over a long time, but Olesm knew his past, and he knew more about the dangers of the Antinium than most as Liscor’s [Tactician]. Yet right at this moment—he thought he had never known Klbkch more.

The two losers of endless bouts with Erin looked at each other, and Olesm managed a smile and a nod.

“It would be my pleasure.”



——



The Workers were left at the gates of Liscor to find their way to the Hive, which they did, unnoticed by all but a few citizens who avoided them. The Goblins who had gone with the littlest Goblin to the inn crept back to their cave and did not tell the others why they weren’t that hungry and where they’d been.

But the one thing Olesm and Klbkch didn’t realize was this. While they sat and had a genteel game of chess at Olesm’s office, trying out new moves and what Erin had taught them, it failed to occur to them that they were not the only people who had learned something from Erin.

The Workers had a bundle of paper slips. While they were supposed to be asleep, one slowly, slowly let a chess board fall to the floor of the Hive. Then, as many Workers watched, another slowly placed down the chess ‘pieces’, the squares of paper, just like they’d been shown.

After all—this made sense to them. It was just numbers and patterns, and the [Innkeeper] had played with them.

The Goblins did not have any paper chess boards, because it would invariably be used as toilet paper or kindling for a fire. But the littlest Goblin was busy arranging some grass and sticks into an odd formation, and the rest of her tribe ignored her. She was always weird, and they didn’t see why she was thinking and placing them in odd positions on the ground.

Klbkch and Olesm retired after a few games, and Olesm levelled up that night, much to his delight. But that was nothing to the voice which spoke to the many confused and frightened Antinium who panicked because they were going to get in trouble. It said the exact same thing to the littlest Goblin and a few others, who sat up in confusion and awe.

The voice said:



[Tactician Class Obtained!]

[Tactician Level 2!]

[Skill – Risk Calculation obtained!]

[Skill – Group: Erratic Maneuvering obtained!]



Or some variation of that in level and Skills. Yet the [Innkeeper] flopped into her makeshift bed in the kitchen and closed her eyes and slept.

Erin heard nothing at all.





1.26 R


The Ruins of Albez sit at the heart of what had once been a magical kingdom. Or perhaps a community of mages. Or an ancient citadel of—you know what? It doesn’t matter. There’s almost nothing left anymore to tell a visitor what it had been.

Once, this hillside of collapsed dirt and dug-out structures was something vast and incredible. When the first people found the Ruins of Albez, the records indicate that they noticed a dome of glass two hundred feet wide poking out of the ground. They dug down and found magical stone, entire wings of preserved libraries, and magical laboratories.

—And monsters. Over eighty-nine years, the ruins were stripped, first quickly, then slower as fewer and fewer groups found anything of note. The monsters remained, and then the remaining rubble that wasn’t magical became pockets of tagged debris, with symbols from older teams of adventurers and treasure seekers who left markings to show what had been explored—or throw other groups off the scent.

From the dirt excavation, the ruins looked more like an archeologist’s project, with entire excavated rooms and areas laid bare to the sun. Plenty of ruined edifices and roofs to hide under, despite that. Which is the true danger. Any number of people might come here to explore on the vague chance of finding a magical item worth a year’s earnings—if not for the monsters.

The entire area is saturated in magic, so much so that it makes my hair tingle.

My actual hair tingles. It’s not like static electricity, more like a kind of energy filling you up. So similar—but it has a different feel than the pure charge of the air. It makes you feel alive. No wonder monsters love coming here, because this place is a wonderful home for them to live in, especially if they eat magic.

Final fact from my quick research into the area. Albez is built on a leyline. Before the Humans came, it was apparently settled by a tribe of ‘Gnolls’, furry folk who used to live here. Which explains the issue.

On one side, you have monsters who are inhabiting this area. On the other, you have adventurers, hoping to find what no one has discovered. Naturally, conflicts ensue.

I’m staring down at one of the open courtyards from my position on a hilltop. Actually, I’m prone, and the grass is really itchy. A big chunk of stone gives me additional cover, and I doubt anything can see me—because I can’t see much of anything unless I raise my head high enough. But I’m not about to get up. I can see a flash and then a brilliant blue crackle of lightning.

Slower than regular lightning. But ‘slower’ in the sense that it flashes across the ground, strikes a pillar where someone dives to safety, and blows a goddamn chunk out of solid stone. I swallow.

That’s going to do the same to me if it hits. And then—wonderful—I see the lightning bolt followed by a ball of roiling flames. It lands as someone shouts below.

“[Fireball]! Cover—”

Someone runs five feet, leaps, and clears the blast zone just in time. The ball of fire expands, and the shockwave actually makes the air move around me. Someone drags away the figure who made it to safety; the blast kicked them like a mule, and I have to imagine they’ve been deafened and possibly blinded and baked by the heat.

That’s magic. Combat magic, and it’s really, really unfortunate I’m going to be running down there. But from the looks of it—the group of people ducking the hostile spells need my delivery right now.

“Healing potion! Get me a healing—”

Someone’s shouting. The other figures mill about, but they’re out. I can see a woman with a bow poke her head up, dodge an arrow that rattles off her cover, and loose an arrow back.

It doesn’t seem to do much good, but it does draw the ire of the enemy spellcaster. Another streak of magic shoots her way—another lightning bolt. I’ve seen two spells so far, and they’re either a ball of fire or bolt of lightning.

I’d say it’s stereotypical, but it’s working. But what amazes me is that the woman with a bow doesn’t die—she takes cover, and a huge voice shouts. A bull-man with horns roars.

“Horns! Move up and support Marian! Ceria, take out that spellcaster! Shields up!”

Ten figures move forwards, taking cover and spreading out around the courtyard, loosing arrows and charging to meet yellowed skeletons holding swords and rusted axes. But they’re watching the spellcaster all the while, forcing it to attack people in cover.

They actually have good strategy. Which is the only reason they survived long enough to send a [Message] spell for help, I guess.

The adventuring group currently occupying the ruins is known as the Horns of Hammerad. A Silver-rank team notable for their relatively high average level—most members are above level 20—and their leader, a Minotaur [Fighter]* who wields an enormous battleaxe in combat.



*I still don’t get classes. Apparently, [Fighter] is a general class, although some call it [Warrior] depending on the culture. Does that mean they have the same Skills? Either way, it’s the first class most warriors take, but if this Minotaur guy were higher-level, he’d be an [Axemaster] or [Knight]. But we call him a [Fighter] or [Warrior] because we don’t know his exact class. Because that’s private. Huh.



The general consensus is that they’re quite competent in combat, and they’d received official permission to search the ruins for the duration of the week. That means that while the Horns are in the ruins, other adventuring groups can’t interfere or look for treasure. It was an arrangement that allowed the nearby cities to reap a profit for charging access and prevented conflicts between their adventurers.

All well and good, and normally, the Horns would have expected a moderate payout at the very least. They were well equipped and prepared for anything.

Which was why the sight of their disorganized party fighting and retreating across the ruins is even more alarming. The roaring bull man is hacking down a skeleton one-handed with an axe, but he can barely move.

…Because of the spike of ice lodged in his midsection. He’s got it covered with a tourniquet, and he’s, somehow, still upright and fighting. But then I see a deadly hail of ice shards flying towards another adventurer and gulp.

The other warriors and mages—the Horns of Hammerad is a large party, ten members strong—are either hunkered down or exchanging shots with the monster that has cornered them.

Even as I watch, an armored warrior deflects a sword strike from one of the skeletons attacking their group and smashes it with a mace. The skeleton falls to the ground, lifeless. But that’s attracted the attention of the leader of the undead, and a huge blast of fire engulfs the area once more.

I wince as the armored warrior runs out of the blaze screaming in agony. He rolls on the ground as a mage with a staff shoots a few magic bolts of rippling light to attract attention away from him. Two other adventurers rush forth and drag the burnt warrior into cover as a hail of ice spikes nearly pincushions all three.

Well, crap. That’s the fifth member of the Horns down. I was hoping they’d sway the battle, but at this rate, they’ll be wiped out. No help for it.

I shouldn’t go down there. The [Receptionist] whose name I can’t remember told me not to risk it. Either signal them to grab the potions or wait till the fight is over. Even for an Emergency Delivery, a Runner is under no obligation to risk their lives in an active combat zone.

That thing firing off spells could kill me in a single shot. Even if I wanted to risk it, it’s smarter to wait and find a way to sneak down. But I can hear someone screaming for a potion. So…slowly, I get up and feel at my legs. The broken stones still obscure most of my body if I shuffle over to where it’s at its highest.

I take two deep breaths and then stretch my legs out. Right leg? Check. Left leg? Stretching…check. Okay.

I peek over the piece of rubble I’m hiding behind. Clear? Okay. Here we go—

I vault the rubble and dash down the slope. From where I am, there’s a moderate incline down into the heart of the ruins, where fallen buildings and rubble make for treacherous ground. Loose stones can twist my ankle, or I can kick a piece of stone at high-speed and break my toes.

But what’s worse is the danger of being killed by the monster fifty feet in front of me. The problem is that I arrived on the wrong side of the ruins. So I’m closer to it than the adventurers.

I charge down the hill towards it. The robed figure notices me as I’m halfway there and turns. Two glowing blue points of light in its eyes shift towards me as I sprint directly at it. A jaw made of bone clatters open, and I see a dead…skeletal body rotate my way.

It’s a Lich*, an undead skeletal mage. The skeleton looks wrong, like a reptile, and the bones are subtly different, yet it is a skeleton—it even has a skeletal tail, and the ancient robes hanging on its body are the only things not worn away by rot.



*I personally have problems with calling it a Lich. Apparently, unlike in games and stories, Liches are rather common. They’re more like an undead type rather than unique and rare examples of mages living forever. They’re not even that deadly. Well, they’re very deadly, but even scarier types of undead exist apparently.



For a second, I don’t think it even knows what it’s seeing. A lone Human running straight at it without a weapon? It hesitates, but then raises a finger. This would be the part where I die in its plan. In mine? I think I survive.

If it seems stupid to charge at a monster capable of blasting me to bits with a single spell, well, it probably is. But I had a good reason for doing it. Over the last five minutes, I’d scoped out the Lich’s battle against the group of adventurers and picked out a few important details about how it acted. I had three good reasons for my plan of action.

Reason A: I’d noticed that the Lich could cast several spells, such as a miniaturized lightning bolt, a fireball, and those nasty showers of ice spikes. Of the three, I really only had to worry about the fireball and the ice spikes. The lightning looked dangerous, but it grounded itself too easily at a long distance on the nearest object. Since I’m not wearing any metal, it would be far harder for the Lich to hit me.

As for the fireballs and ice spikes, well, they were slower and the Lich had to point first. Its aim also wasn’t the greatest in the world. It was a risk, but so long as I didn’t get cooked when the fireball exploded, I had a shot.

Also, Reason B: was that I’d noticed the Lich tended to defend itself with a barrier of bones it summoned from the ground whenever anything got close. That stopped it from casting spells for a few seconds.

And Reason C: I’m stupid.

The Lich pointed at me and cackled something that made my ears hurt. I dove and rolled and felt my right side go slightly numb. It felt like the worst static electricity shock I’d ever experienced times a hundred, but that meant the lightning had missed me. And I was still alive.

Hit the ground, roll onto my feet and run. I closed on the Lich, and it raised a protective hand. As I expected, a wall of bones erupted from the ground in front of me, a grotesque puzzle of interlocked bones and skulls as solid as rock*.



*Seriously. How the hell does it do that? Are there that many bones in the ground? Or is it just magic?



Now’s my chance. I immediately veer left and accelerate towards where the adventurers are. The Lich makes a crackling noise as it realizes it’s been duped. It tries to lower the bone barrier, but it’s too late.

Run. Run faster. Dodge behind the pillar. Pause. Go left. Move right. Fireball! Close. Now—sprint left as fast as possible.

In one of the many safety seminars my dad made me attend after every mass shooting, they taught us what to do if a gunman ever opened fire and we had to escape. Some of it was common sense stuff like don’t scream or do something stupid and think before moving. But I did remember one important tip.

When someone’s firing at you, don’t run in a straight line to get away. Zig zag, make it hard for them to get a bead on you. And in my case, duck behind rubble and place as many obstacles between me and the Lich as possible.

I run, and I run as fast as I can. The instant I slow, I’m dead. The air around me is static; fire explodes around me, and flying ice threatens to pierce my skin.

You can’t tell, and I don’t have a mirror, but I’m pretty sure I’m grinning.



——



“Status?”

Calruz, leader of the Horns of Hammerad, grunted at the other warrior as the two hid behind one of the fallen walls in the ruins. The Human, his second-in-command, glanced down at him and shook his head grimly.

“I think Terr got hit by a [Fireball]. Coblat and Grimsore dragged him away, but he’s down for the count as well.”

“Damn.”

The Minotaur hit his thigh and winced. The huge spear of ice protruding out of his midriff oozed more dark blood, and he sat back against the wall and breathed out. The tendons on his neck strained, and sweat stood out on his brow despite the freezing cold.

“What about Ceria and Sostrom? Why the hell aren’t they taking this thing out? We are a disgrace of a team.”

Ceria and Sostrom were their [Mages]. The other man grimaced as he saw someone poke her head up, swivel around with her pointed ears twitching, then duck an arrow loosed by a skeleton holding a bow. It was more amazing that the filthy, corroded bow and string could even fire, but it did, and the arrow was weak and badly aimed—but it could still do a lot of damage.

So could the skeletons charging their flanks on-and-off. A rusted hatchet from the bone limbs wasn’t nearly as hard as Calruz could hit someone—but a sharp blade would still cut or kill by infection later, and there were a lot of skeletons.

Even so—they would have taken the lesser skeletons to pieces an hour ago, when the fight began. As it was, they were barely surviving, and they’d burned through all their healing potions. Because of the Lich. The other man scratched at his mustache soaked with sweat, a habit, and glanced out again as the half-Elf poked her head up.

“They’re trying, but whenever they fire at that monster, it just raises a shield. It’s got more mana than all of our casters combined. We need to get in close if we want a chance.”

“Fat chance of that happening with all those skeletons and zombies guarding it.”

“I think Terr got rid of the last of them, but we still can’t get close. It’s too flaming quick.”

“We have to.”

That was all the Minotaur said. He grimly stared at the spike of ice in his stomach. If he pulled it out, how long did he have?

“Do you have half a potion left, Gerial? Give it to me. I’ll yank this out and charge. Everyone who can move goes.”

“You’ll get roasted. No way.”

Gerial glanced at the Minotaur in alarm. He was two heads shorter than the bull man, and Calruz’s biceps were massive; he was a fit warrior even by the standards of his people. Right now, his eyes were clear blue and concentrated with pain and cold calm.

“We must take the monster down. No Runner can get to us with it here, and no other adventuring team can bail us out. I am Beriad of the House of Minos. It would be a disgrace for me to let my team down.”

“Beriad my ass.”

Calruz turned, snorting, and Gerial grabbed his arm.

“We’re not doing a suicide charge. Just give Ceria a chance. If she can damage it, we’ll fall back and try to escape. The horses are—”

A sudden commotion stopped the argument dead, and Calruz lifted his axe, swearing. If it was another skeleton horde, they were in trouble.

The vice-captain of the Horns of Hammerad chanced a peek around the wall he was hiding behind. There didn’t seem to be any more [Fireballs] coming his way at the moment, which was good and also worrying. Had the Lich turned its attention elsewhere? Doubtful. But then why—

His jaw dropped. Gerial focused on something in the distance as Calruz whispered an oath to his homeland. His hand tightened around the piece of ice to tear it loose—when he heard Gerial exclaim, and his tone was different.

“Who is that?”

Calruz grunted and tried to twist his head, but fell back weakly.

“Who? What’s happening?”

“It’s a Runner! She just charged down the hill at the Lich! She’s coming this way!”

The Minotaur’s eyes opened wide.

“You’re joking. She’ll never make it.”

“She’s doing it.”

The vice-captain watched as the long-legged runner dashed across the broken landscape. She was leaping over pieces of rubble and running in a serpentine motion while fireballs and shards of ice rained down around her. From this distance, all he could see was raven-black hair and tanned skin, but the vice-captain was sure he’d never seen this particular runner before.

She had odd features, which would have told him she was part-Japanese, or at least Asian, if those words had meant anything to him.

“She’s foreign. Chandrarian? Balerosian?”

He turned, and the Minotaur edged over. He glanced out and grunted.

“You idiot. She’s Drathian.”

“Drathian? What’s one of them doing across the world?”

“No clue. Shut up—give that Runner covering fire! Everyone up!”

Gerial himself lowered his sword to grab a loose rock and heave it in the general direction of the Lich. It fell well short, but several arrows and a spike of ice made the undead turn and begin firing their way. Yet it was still after the Runner, and every second, the Minotaur expected to see her go down with the next spell.

Any second he expected her to be blown away by an on-target [Fireball] or be seared by a lightning blast. But she didn’t. And then she was right on top of Gerial.



——



Ryoka leapt around a pillar of stone and slammed into the Human man in armor. She knocked into him and felt cool metal before she stumbled back. He pulled her into cover as icicle shards crashed against the rubble.

It took her two deep breaths of air before she could speak. Ryoka unslung her pack and nodded at the gaping vice-captain.

“Delivery.”

“Dead gods!”

The vice-captain stared at Ryoka. He gestured to her, the ruins, and then waved his gauntleted hands a bit.

“That was the most amazing sight I’ve ever—you just ran right past that Lich! Are you insane? Or crazy?”

She was pretty sure she was. But Ryoka’s mouth was on autopilot as she fumbled with her pack. Was she dead? She felt alive! But there were explosions going off as the Lich attacked, and she turned to the two. Then she recoiled as she saw the Minotaur staring down at her.

He was seven feet tall. Before his horns. Maybe some of that was due to the steel armor he wore, but he was a mammoth!

Imagine a bull’s face on a humanoid body, only he had toes, or what she thought were toes, in feet-like boots. Chestnut fur, short and fairly smooth, covered every inch of his body, and two horns, again, curved like a bull’s, sprang from his head. But there were two caps of gold on the tips of the horns and his eyes were intelligent, if strained with pain at this moment.

He looked like a monster himself, out of Greek legend—but only for a second. He held that axe with too much care, and his eyes flitted to his companion and his team, with urgency and attentiveness to their condition. So not a monster but another kind of man.

Despite looking as though he should have been able to smash the Lich down one-handed, the spike of ice in his midsection showed Ryoka why the team was in trouble.

It was dripping with water and blood around a cloth bandage, and he was holding it with one huge hand, possibly supporting it so it didn’t pull a bunch of his organs out of his body. Ryoka’s mouth worked a second before she spoke.

“I’m a Runner. I’ve got a delivery for the leader of the Horns of Hammerad. That you?”

“That’s me.”

Of all the stupid things to say—but he actually nodded to her. Sweat dripped off the Mintoaur’s brow as he bared his teeth.

“Calruz of the Beriad, Captain of the Horns of Hammerad. Son of Minos, at your service.”

He was as polite and formal as could be—right until he tried to make a gesture with his free hand. His face twisted, and he muttered.

“I hope you’ve got our delivery, Miss Runner.”

Ryoka nodded rapidly. She put her pack down, then yanked the top open and placed the heavily-wrapped bottles down on the ground in front of the Minotaur. Instantly, he reached for the bottles.

“Fifteen healing potions, five mana potions. All unbroken. Delivery to Horns of Hammerad. Your seal?”

“Seal? Oh, of course!”

They were all in shock. The vice-captain gave Ryoka a blank look, then automatically fumbled with his pouch. He pulled out a silver and copper token and handed it to her. It was a unique seal with a hammer standing on a mountain embossed on one side.

“Thanks.”

Ryoka stowed the seal securely in her waist pouch and then peeked around the wall. The Lich was exchanging fireballs with another mage wearing a red wizard’s hat. She nodded to herself and lowered into a sprinter’s crouch.

“Wait—are you going?”

Ryoka didn’t glance at the vice-captain as she tried to judge when would be the best moment.

“Yep.”

“You can’t! I mean, that’s even crazier!”

The vice-captain stared at Ryoka in consternation and then looked at his leader for support. Calruz was trying to open one of the bottles. He grunted as he pulled the cork out of one of the bottles and downed the thick, syrupy, green liquid. Instantly, he straightened and began to pull out the piece of ice. Ryoka watched in horrified fascination as his skin began to knit, starting to push the ice spike out of his body.

The Minotaur growled, and she saw his eyes slowly begin to turn red, the blue irises and whites filling with blood. He stood taller and slowly turned his head to the Lich, who stopped attacking the half-Elf screaming curses at it as if it could sense the danger.

“Let her go if she wants. Runner—thanks for the assistance. Not many of your lot would do this. The Horns owe you a debt.”

She paused.

“No problem.”

He nodded to her. She nodded back. Then the Minotaur yanked the piece of ice out and hurled it to the ground. An armored foot stomped, and it shattered to pieces. Gerial looked relieved, but he turned to Ryoka.

“At least let us reassemble and give you a diversion. Once we get these potions to all our members, we can finally bring this guy down.”

Ryoka thought about it.

“That’ll take too long. You want an opening? I’ll give you one. I’ve got more deliveries to make.”

The vice-captain tore at what hair he could reach underneath his helmet.

“He’ll blast you the instant you leave cover!”

She grinned at the vice-captain, breaking her expressionless mask.

“He can try.”

The Minotauar’s eyes opened wide, and he gave her a smile like hers. But his was blood and glory. He took a breath as his stomach wound closed and bellowed.

“You heard her. Horns of Hammerad—covering fire! Potions have arrived!”



——



Five minutes later, the adventuring party, the Horns of Hammerad, watched the Runner break out of the ruins and sprint away even as the Lich fired a final parting bolt of lightning in her direction. He missed. The Lich shrieked, a strangely piercing wail coming from the skeleton’s mouth, then turned to attack the adventurers.

But they were deep in cover, and it hovered, uncertainly, then raised a barrier of bones again. It couldn’t tell where they were—

And they had regrouped. The half-Elf broke away from the healing potions going to her teammates, who were getting on their feet, cursing, and crabbed under a buttress of broken stone to where Gerial and Calruz were sitting. Gerial was mouthing to his Captain.

“She did it. She actually did it.”

“She told you.”

Calruz grinned and watched the young woman disappearing over the hill. He turned as the half-Elf tapped him on the shoulder. Her blonde hair was sticking up from all the static electricity it had absorbed, and she looked exhausted from her running battle with the Lich.

But she too was getting a second wind; she held a wand at the ready, tip glowing faintly with frozen ice along the alabaster length of stone.

With the other hand, she was gulping down the foul, off-blue potion swimming with green swirls of color. She gagged, then spoke.

“Is that a new Runner? She must be. I haven’t ever seen her before, and I think I would have remembered hearing about one as crazy as that. Dead gods, she saved us. Gerial, you alright? Marian is going to make it. So is Terr. He’s on his feet.”

“Thank the Five Families.”

Gerial breathed out, and the Minotaur corrected him.

“Thank the Runner. Ceria, how’s your mana?”

She grimaced. The half-Elf tipped the jar of liquid up, gulped it down, and her eyes bulged. Both Gerial and Calruz hesitated, afraid she’d spew it out, but she swallowed.

“Potion’s working. Dead gods, that’s nasty. I bet Octavia made it. It tastes cheap and foul as hell.”

“Coming from our bug-eating, tree-kissing half-Elf? It must be bad.”

Ceria jabbed Gerial with her wand before Calruz growled.

“Stop bickering. We’re at full strength again, thanks to that Human. Speaking of. Did anyone catch the Runner’s name?”

Neither Gerial nor Ceria had. The man scratched at his chin.

“We can ask later. She looks different. Drathian, you said? She’s definitely new; no one around here has the guts to do an Emergency Run like that.”

Ceria raised her brows.

“Drathian? Well, we can ask questions later. Potions are distributed. What’s our plan, boss? Charge in and eat another ice spike? My vote’s not to do that—the Lich can throw better spells than I can, and I’m the [Elementalist].”

The Minotaur gave Ceria a huge glare, and Gerial raised a hand as if to break them up. But this was just banter, and Calruz jerked his head over.

“We take a page out of the Runner’s book. Did you see how she escaped it? We moved in too slow. This time, we spread out. No shields, just run from cover to cover. Gerial, you’ll take one group left. I’ll head right. Put Marian and the other archers up and tie it up. Force it to shield itself, and give me an opening. Ceria, can you tag it at least once?”

The half-Elf flexed her hands and produced a shard of ice from her palm. She grinned as her eyes seemed to regain a spark of…magic.

“Can do.”

Calruz raised his voice.

“Horns! Did you hear that? We’re going in. The Runner’s bought us our moment, and we’ll all buy her a drink. But I’ll be drinking it out of that Lich’s damned skull. Advance!”

He swung himself up as the Lich whirled. It raised a staff, and a spike of ice shot towards the Minotaur, but Gerial was already up and his shield caught the spell. He stumbled back, swearing, but before the Lich could fire a bolt of lightning from one hand, a shard of ice hit it in one eye-socket.

It recoiled, skull cracked from the force of the blow. It looked up and saw a half-Elf pointing a wand at it. She grinned, and then shard after shard of ice began firing from her wand, hitting the Lich with pinpoint precision. Then the other adventurers were emerging from cover, shouting as they sprinted for positions closer.

The last skeletons rose to their feet to defend their leader as the Minotaur emerged with a roar, punching through one’s ribcage without even deigning to swing his axe. The Lich recoiled, trying to back up, but it was too late.

As one, the Horns of Hammerad abandoned their position in the ruins and began a full-scale assault on the Lich and the remaining undead.



——



After she’d run ten miles away from the Ruins, Ryoka finally stopped to catch her breath. Her lungs were burning, and her legs felt like jelly. The adrenaline was finally draining out of her, and she felt exhausted.

She could still feel tingling in her legs from the lightning bolts missing her skin. Only when she raised her arm did she feel a flash of pain and see the singed flesh and soot. White blisters were already rising on her skin.

It hurt. She had nearly died, and her legs trembled. She felt cold and remembered that shiver of seeing the flames burning in the hollow sockets of the Lich’s skull. A feeling of dread upon seeing something far, far more real than any Halloween mask or costume.

A malevolent intelligence and hatred towards her.

She had nearly died. Ryoka’s body began to tremble. A second too slow, or if she’d dodged left instead of right—

The trembling continued, but Ryoka’s lips twitched. She tried to smile.

“Fun.”

The word felt fake. She tried to put on a daring grin, but then she thought of the adventurers and looked back. Had they made it? Ryoka exhaled, and the trembling stopped a bit. She amended her statement.

“Good run.”

She hoped they would survive. Then she kept on going.



——



I’m still high on adrenaline when I’m standing at the Runner’s Guild, in front of a [Receptionist]. Shame it doesn’t make this part easier.

“You completed the supply request for the Horns of Hammerad?”

“Yep.”

The receptionist stares at me. I shrug. What does she want me to say? I nearly died? Liches are scary?

I feel like I’m in a different world. The worn-down room of the Runner’s Guild is a far cry from the grassy plains or the rubble and destruction of the Ruins of Albez. The woman raises her brows. This isn’t the one I recognize, by the by. This is a middle-aged woman with a frizzy shock of green hair in a stripe running through her brown hair. I think it’s not even a style; some people just have magical hair as part of their genetics.

Lucky. She’s taking notes, and she looks relieved.

“That’s incredible. Are the Horns already finished fighting? The magic communication we got said they were fighting a Lich and a horde of the undead.”

I shake my head as a few Runners in line poke their heads up, interested. I point, as if I’m pointing at the distant ruins.

“They’re still fighting. The Lich is still around. Not sure about the other undead. Looked like they were mostly dead. Undead.”

The receptionist doesn’t smile. Didn’t she get the joke? Darn. She’s still giving me that ‘I-don’t-believe-you’ look. I hand her the Seal.

“Here’s the Seal from the Horns of Hammerad.”

She checks it over and then double-checks. Her eyebrows rise.

“It’s real. So you’re telling me you delivered the supplies in the middle of the battle?”

Why is she making a big fuss? I thought that’s what all Runners did on this kind of mission.

“Yup. Emergency Run, right?”

“Incredible.”

I’m silent. I mean, what am I supposed to say to that? ‘Oh, yeah, I’m really amazing, now give me my money?’

After a few moments, the receptionist finally shakes herself.

“You could go to Invrisil, if you cared to risk your life like that. The City of Adventurers always headhunts brave Runners. But a Lich? Well, well, this is all in order. Would you like the payment now or…?”

“Later.”

I can collect my pay whenever, but most Runners do it in one lump sum at the end of the week. It’s more convenient that way since we have to sign to confirm we’ve been paid and the receptionist has to validate it. The [Receptionist] is still staring at me, and she smiles.

“Well, I think you’ve earned your break. Unless—do you think you could do another delivery? I wouldn’t ask, but you’re the only City Runner here right now.”

I’m tired, but that’s only because of my adrenaline low. I know my legs have got at least another good run in them, so I nod.

“Where to?”

“Celum. It’s another request from Lady Magnolia. Another Runner just brought it from Remendia, but he’s too tired to keep going. It’s been passed from six Runners so far, and we need to get it to Magnolia within the hour if possible.”

Okay. Now that’s tricky. I hesitate.

It’s not that I don’t think I can do it in time. I can get to Celum in less than an hour even with something heavy on my back. But I’d done another run for Magnolia—delivering a big, fancy vase—a few days ago. By the ‘unwritten rules,’ that meant I should wait for at least another week before I took the request.

Damn. Damnation. Drat. Fals’ warning sticks with me, and I’m half tempted to take the delivery just because I hated his annoying hints and threats. On the other hand…I don’t need to meet Magnolia Reinhart again.

What should I do? This is the exact kind of situation I hate. I glance around at the other Runners and see mostly Street Runners.

“There aren’t any other City Runners around?”

The receptionist shakes her head.

“They’re all out on deliveries, and I don’t want to wait longer than I have to. I was about to ask one of the Street Runners to do the delivery, but that would have been a problem too.”

Well, in that case…why not? The Magnolia rule can go to hell for all I care.

“I’ll do it.”

The receptionist smiles in relief.

“Thank y—”

“Hold on!”

The receptionist’s head turns. My head doesn’t. I’m taking this moment to say a few choice words in my head*.



*Oh, please no. Not that stupid, inbred rodent girl. No one in the world has a voice more high-pitched and annoying than her and her moronic cronies. I’d rather go back and dance naked in front of the Lich than deal with this.



I turn and see a familiar face. She stands in the doorway of the Runner’s Guild, wiping sweat from her face. She looks at me as her two best friends, Claudeil and Toriska, wave at the Runners inside. They’re both taller than she is, but she’s in charge.

Two pigtails instead of a braid, brown, flax hair, despite all the gels she puts in it, and she looks like she’s starving.

Or hungry. She’s thin, but she always looks like someone’s just snatched a sandwich from her, and I’ve never seen her not looking accusatory. Especially now as she gives me a triumphant look as if she’s just caught me red-handed. Today, she’s wearing a light-green hooded jacket to keep out of the rain and long, loose leggings like most Runners. She also wears open-toed sandals when she runs, the monster, secured by leather ties.

She’s famous enough that other Runners turn and some smile at her, but I see a few just looking apprehensive behind their smiles. The [Receptionist] in front of me actually makes a small groaning sound, and I look at the worst Runner in the region.

Persua. Her voice is strident, high-pitched, and makes me long for the whine of a [Fireball] passing by my ears. Especially if it hits her. She gives me a huge smirk.

“There’s no need to give Magnolia’s request to her. I’ve just arrived, and I can take care of it myself.”

The young woman—no, the annoying teenager who strides towards me brushes past to stand at the counter. She keeps her back very straight, probably because I’m taller than her by a head. I catch the overpowering smell of perfume masking her sweat and step back so her brown hair doesn’t smack me in the face every time she tosses her head. Which she does quite often.

I know her. Or rather, I know her sallow* face. She always looks like she’s pursing her lips at everyone, and she annoys me every time I look at her.



*Is sallow the right word here? I think it means pinched and narrow, but I could be wrong. That’s the problem with not having the internet. Anyways, her face is shrewish, although I forget what a shrew looks like too. I’m going with sallow either way.



“Oh, Miss Persua. I didn’t know you were still in the city.”

Persua. A name fit for her. Persua tosses her head impetuously and nods. Her two friends, Claudeil, all sneers and eyes on my chest, and Toriska, who looks straight past me, follow Persua over as if she needs the emotional support at all times. Persua herself is the worst, though, and she smirks as if she’s being clever.

“Well, I was doing that delivery to Remendia, but once one of my friends let me know Magnolia’s request was sitting in the Runner’s guild, of course I came back to fulfill it.”

She what? I give her a blank stare. The receptionist looks uncomfortable.

“You—haven’t finished the other delivery? Well, I was going to give the request to Ryoka. She’s free, and she’s—”

“She’s already done a request for Magnolia this week. By rights, that means I should have a turn. Claudeil will do my run, right?”

The receptionist frowns at Persua. So does the young man. He brushes at his hair.

“I will? I mean—of course, Persua. That frees it up. Toriska and I will go.”

“I’m going with Persua. You can go—or Miss Ryoka can go, Claudeil. We can trade up!”

Toriska giggles, and the [Receptionist] stares at my face as I debate kicking the other Runner. Although—they are armed. Claudeil has a crossbow, and Toriska has a wand and knife for emergencies. I’ve seen both showing off their weapons to Street Runners.

I bet I could kick them both in the face from here. However, the [Receptionist] breaks in, trying to mediate…Persua.

“There’s no rule that explicitly gives precedence to other Runners. Besides which, I need this delivery done as quickly as possible. It is literally getting…warmer? As we speak.”

“So?”

Another head toss. I notice some more of Persua’s ‘friends,’ the other Runners—mainly Street Runners who are new or lower on the totem pole—watching me. They always gather around when she appears. I stare at them until they look away. I hate their guts. Too bad Persua doesn’t back down as easily. Doubly too bad is her annoying voice.

“I can easily do Magnolia’s request. Ryoka can just switch with me.”

The [Receptionist] was beginning to look exasperated.

“It doesn’t work like that. Unless Ryoka agrees, I can’t just give this to you. Besides, as I’ve said, this is a speedy delivery. I can’t give it to—”

“To what?”

Persua looks at the receptionist coldly. But I fill in the gap silently in my mind, probably with everyone else in the Runner’s Guild.

To a slower runner. One of the slowest, in fact. Persua might be a City Runner, but she’s slow. Or lazy. Actually, she’s both. She’s also an idiot, but that’s just my observation. She doesn’t take as many long-distance contracts, and she only delivers light-weight stuff like flowers or letters.

However, she does tend to get deliveries done—possibly because her friends often run with her. The [Receptionist] bites her tongue and tries a smile, which clearly fails, even to me.

“I just meant that Ryoka is the fastest City Runner. Even Fals can’t beat her time.”

“Yes, but I’m sure she’ll switch with me, won’t you, Ryoka?”

Persua glances at me and then away. Passive-aggressive bitch*.



*What language! I’m ashamed of myself. Mainly because I don’t have a wider vocabulary to describe someone like her. I could get vulgar, but I’d rather just slap her on the back of the head. Must resist temptation.



I hesitate. I should give the request to Persua. Even if she fails it, there’s no skin off my back. In fact, if she gets in trouble for failing the request even better. Although she’ll probably wriggle out of it somehow.

Yeah, I hate her guts. And I don’t feel like giving in to her bullying, especially because I know the only reason she wants to do the delivery is for the easy money and the opportunity to sponge off of Magnolia. So you know what? Let’s escalate things.

“It’s urgent.”

That’s not what Persua wants to hear. She glances at me in irritation.

“So? I can make it.”

The receptionist glances around uncertainly.

“If we can’t get it to Magnolia within the hour, the delivery won’t be any good. Can you make the run in time? It will melt, that is what I am told, and the Runner’s Guild will bear the costs of reimbursing Lady Reinhart if it is ruined. I would like it there in forty minutes. Or less. Miss Persua, you have no sprinting Skills while Miss Ryoka is the fastest. Can you do it?”

This time, Persua noticeably swallows, but she glances at her two friends and then nods.

“I can.”

“So can I.”

Both the receptionist and I glance at Persua. She’s already sweating, probably from running back to the city to take the request.

“Can you?”

She glares at me. But I know bodies, and I know running. Sallow girl is sweaty, tired, and she has terrible running form. I’ve done a run too, but unlike her, I know how to conserve energy. I turn to the receptionist.

“Give me the request.”

Persua’s sallow face grows even more pinched, if that were possible. She glares daggers at me.

“That’s not fair. You’ve already done a request. I deserve it! Claudeil and Toriska are both with me—they both deserve chances too!”

“Toriska’s not even a City Runner yet.”

The other young woman glares daggers at me and reaches for her dagger, and Persua stamps her foot.

“So? Claudeil is!”

“Yeah, and you always deliver to Magnolia together. This isn’t about—getting to hobnob with her. She needs it fast? I’m ready.”

The idiot is ready to argue with me, but even Claudeil is hesitating because he knows I’m right. Persua strides over to poke at me and I’m ready to break her finger, but an urgent voice interrupts the two of us.

“Persua, please.”

The receptionist is already wrestling with something under the counter. She lifts it up to me and gives me a smile of relief. I guess she really didn’t think Persua could do it either. She brings out a huge metal…canister?

Yes, a locking canister of metal. I blink because it’s more ornate than I thought this world had for metallurgy, but that’s the nobility for you. It’s cold, too, and I feel how heavy it is. Must be something solid in there.

“Here’s the delivery. It’s packed in ice, so try not to get it too warm if possible. You know where Magnolia’s house is. They’ll be expecting you.”

Persua stomps her foot angrily as I put the large metal canister in my backpack. Cold. And it is wrapped with melting ice, so I’ll have a wet backpack after my run. But it’s worth it to see her get mad.

“I don’t think this is a good idea.”

“Good for you.”

If looks could kill…but Persua’s looks only annoy. She stomps towards me until my nose burns with her stupid perfume. She hisses at me.

“You’ll regret this.”

“Oh, really?”

“Yes!”

Some people. I turn away from Persua and hear her make a sound like an angry hamster. Claudeil, Toriska, both are giving me what they probably think are sinister looks. I look around and see most of the Street Runners pretending not to see this altercation.

Whatever. I really don’t care about their opinions or whatever Runner’s Code they claim. I’m here to do my job.

I nod to the receptionist.

“I’m off.”

I’m out the door before Persua can make another comment. I hear a strangled scream of fury, then a barrage of complaints. You can’t tell, and I don’t have a mirror.

But I’m grinning again.



——



This time, it’s the head maid who opens the door. She sniffs down at me.

I nod at her. I’m out of breath, tired, and my back is really, really cold. But I feel great, because I made it here in just forty minutes. That’s almost a record, and it’s at least twice as fast as Persua’s best time.

“Delivery for Magnolia.”

“That’s Lady Magnolia, Miss Ryoka Griffin. Wipe your feet.”

Now here’s someone whose looks can really kill. I shrug and take off my pack. I do wipe my feet again.

“Seal?”

“Wait.”

The head maid closes the door on me as I wrestle with my damp delivery. Well, looks like I won’t be talking to Magnolia today. That’s actually a relief. I don’t mind the bubbly, excitable noblewoman, but I actually prefer the maids. They might be abrupt and rude, but that means less talking.

Okay, icy package is in my hands. I wait as patiently as I can outside the door and then hear a muffled conversation. It sounds like someone arguing, and then I hear a familiar energetic voice.

“Nonsense! Ressa, how could you—of course I insist you let her in! Dirty feet or not!”

The door opens, and a familiar woman greets me. How can one woman’s hair stay that curly? I’m fairly certain they don’t have hair curlers in this day and age, but Magnolia’s blonde locks look as stylized as any I’ve seen from my world.

“Please, allow me to apologize for my servant’s rudeness. Come in, please!”

I hesitate, and the maid—Ressa—standing behind Magnolia looks unhappy.

“I can just deliver the package if you have the seal—”

“Oh, I won’t hear of it! Come in!”

Ressa makes a face, and I try not to. Reluctantly, I walk into the foyer of Lady Magnolia’s mansion and wish there was a rug to wipe my feet on. Magnolia beams at me while Ressa perfects her death-glare behind her back. I’m pretty sure she doesn’t want my dirty feet walking all over the marble floor. I’d prefer not to be here too, but the delivery isn’t done until I get the seal.

“This way, please. You can put it in the drawing room. No, not the secondary one, Ressa. The main one!”

She leads me into a carpeted room. Again, I hesitate, but there’s no helping it. The rug is very soft, and my feet are very dirty, but Magnolia doesn’t care. She peers excitedly at the metal container burning my hands with frost and dripping onto the carpet and beams at me.

“Oh my, that was quick! I was told this would be travelling the entire way from the port city of Hazenbrad! Did you bring it here yourself?”

“No. Other runners brought it most of the way.”

“Well, you and your people have certainly done me quite a service! Thank you! My, you look exhausted. Won’t you take a shot of stamina potion? You’re not supposed to mix it with anything—terrible effects, alchemy, you know, but you can chase it with a drink. I find a lemonade works. But perhaps you’re busy? I did remember this time to have my seal ready!”

Magnolia presents me with her silver-sapphire seal. I’m actually gratified she remembers, and she looks me up and down.

“It’s Ryoko, isn’t it? It’s rare that I see the same Runner in so many days.”

Ryoka. But I’m used to people mispronouncing the name. I take the seal and slip it into my pouch. Right, now how to get out of this place tactfully?

“I’ve got to go. More deliveries.”

Actually, I don’t have any more, and I’m tired. But I’d rather go to sleep now and deal with annoying jealous Runners tomorrow. Magnolia’s face falls. She glances at Ressa, who looks amused for some reason, and flutters her hands at the couch.

“Oh, but won’t you stay? I’d love to share this delightful treat with you—and you’ve run so far and so quickly too! When I heard a Runner was setting out from Wales*, I was sure it would take at least an hour for you to get here!”



*Yeah, that’s the city I left. Wales. It’s odd that it has the same name as a country from my world, but then again…it’s not. There’s only so many words in the English language after all.



“Mm.”

Again, what do you say to something like that? ‘Yeah, I’m awesome, now give me more money?’ This is why I hate talking to people. However, Magnolia just peers at me and then claps her hands as if she’s recalling something else.

“And you look so tired! Did you do another delivery today? You Runners are out and about! Wales, Wales…I say, are you the one who bailed the Horns of Hammerad out of their predicament? I was wondering which brave Runner actually ran into a battle, and I will just bet it’s you!”

That makes me start. I blink and look at the woman.

“The Horns? They made it?”

Magnolia Reinhart smiles and gestures to her couch again. It’s pink. Who makes pink couches?

“They did indeed. Did you leave before the battle ended? I’m told they slew a Lich and a horde of undead. Found very little, but the bounty on a Lich is quite high, and I imagine if it was wearing any artifacts, they got those too. It sounded like they were returning to Wales for the day.”

“I…that’s great. How did you know?”

Even I hadn’t heard of that by the time I returned to the Runner’s Guild. Magnolia beams as I sit, and she indicates Ressa.

“Oh, I do keep up with the local adventurers and their exploits. It pays to be informed, you know, and I was quite concerned when I heard they were in danger. And you were there! You must tell me about it. I insist. Ressa, the potion and some lemonade for Miss Ryoka!”

And suddenly, I’m trapped. Ressa gives her mistress an exasperated look, but she steps back. Magnolia seats herself on another pink duvet across from me and keeps on chattering on as I eye the canister of metal that one of her [Butlers] or something is slowly prizing open.

“Besides which, I was never able to talk properly with you both times before now. I truly would love to converse with you—and ask about your peculiar choice of footwear, or should I say, its lack! Won’t you stay for a while?”

Magnolia entreats me with her eyes, and Ressa the maid gives me a look that says I should do whatever she wants and stop sweating and getting the carpets dirty while I’m at it. She’s already back with a shot glass of red liquid followed by lemonade. I take both, swallow the horrible stamina potion—and feel myself perk right up.

Wow. But as I sip the lemonade, my heart sinks. Now I have to be polite. But then again—she did tell me the Horns survived.

I hesitate. I’m tired, and I don’t feel like talking. Like always. True, Magnolia is better than Persua any day of the week, but her enthusiasm makes me feel tired. So I stand and edge towards the door.

“I’m sorry, but I really should go. I’m very busy.”

Magnolia smiles at me.

“Are you that eager to be away? You may simply tell me if you don’t wish to converse.”

I jump* and stare at her. Magnolia smiles.



*Well, not literally.



“Really, my dear. It’s written all over your face. But besides that, I am a [Lady], and most of us learn [Sense Intentions] quite early. And I am quite high-level at that. So, therefore, sit.”

I sit. I don’t even think about it. She spoke, and I—okay, that was something else. Her voice suddenly had something in it, like it was speaking in my mind. Magnolia sighs.

“I am seldom so straightforwards, but I would like to talk with you. And you are so flighty, Miss Ryoka Griffin! It is rare that I meet a young lady as interesting as yourself.”

Try to stand up. No? Okay legs, I’m your boss. Stand. Stand.

Magnolia gestures to the couch I’m trapped in.

“Please sit here. I would like to share this delivery you’ve worked so hard to bring me.”

I’m still struggling with my unresponsive body. Magnolia gives me another smile and addresses her hovering maid.

“Ressa? Please be so kind as to open up the delivery? And I believe we will need two bowls and silverware. I would like the blue porcelain today.”

“Very good, milady. I’m sure the color will detract from the quantity you intend to gobble down like a pig for slaughter.”

I choke on my lemonade. Did I just hear that? Magnolia shoots Ressa a quick glare, but not outraged, like I’d assume. She shoes Ressa off, and the woman gives me a silent, warning look. Probably to tell me to behave, and she disappears out the door. She’s probably going for reinforcement maids. And that leaves me with Magnolia.

The larger woman gives me another charming smile. For the first time, I eye her, and not just as a rich, silly lady. Sure, she looks like something of a stereotype with her bright clothing and expensive jewelry and unambiguously good-natured personality, but what the hell did she do to me? Is that a Skill?

She looks like your image of a valedictorian [Lady] in the modern era. Charming, trendy, and I assumed, mostly fixated on fashion and…noble, rich person stuff. Which I am acquainted with via my family. All show, little substance, lots of drama.

But she knew about the Horns, and her Skill is still locking me in my seat.

“I do hope you like sweet things, Miss Ryoka. Forgive my rudeness, but I simply find that sometimes it’s best to pin people down and get to know them, don’t you?”

“Mm.”

“I’m so glad you agree! My, between you and Ressa, I am simply spoilt for fine conversation, aren’t I?”

Now, that. That sounded a bit like sarcasm. Well, well. Looks like Magnolia has layers. Or her petticoat does. Looks like I’ve underestimated her.

“Well, continue sitting there for a moment. I simply must try this delight, although I fear it’s rather ruining the carpet. Ah, well, it was due for a change.”

Magnolia bustles out of the room. I try to run for it, but my legs are still unresponsive. Well, damn. She’s got some power. It might be worth talking with her after all.

Magnolia. What an aggressive, pushy lady.

I think I like her.



——



Lady Magnolia fussed around the drawing room, and her maids fussed after her. She was busy overseeing the opening of a large metal cask, the contents of which had been surrounded in ice.

Ryoka sat in front of one ornately wrought table, conscious of her dirty feet on the rug. It might not have been Persian, but that was only because Persia didn’t exist in this world. It was certainly expensive, and it was certainly getting dirty the longer her feet were on it.

Occasionally, Ryoka’s legs would tense, but she remained sitting, much to her vexation.

“And here we are!”

Magnolia clapped her hands together in delight. Ryoka glanced up as the two latches on the metal canister were undone and icy vapor escaped. She had no idea what she’d brought, and so it was with interest that she saw a maid carefully scoop something out of the canister.

It was…white, wet-looking, with a few dark flecks mixed in the creamy color. Magnolia’s eye sparkled as another scoop was transferred to a blue and white porcelain bowl. Even the maids looked covetously at the soft cream.

To be specific, the soft ice cream.

Ryoka stared. Magnolia’s smile intensified, but the stare was not because Ryoka was taken with the novelty of the unheard of, expensive treat that she would have never eaten before. That was Magnolia’s one error.

The [Lady] gestured towards her guest, and the maid hesitated before setting the bowl down in front of Ryoka. The young woman stared silently at the gold filigree on the spoon she was handed. She stared down at the ice cream.

“Now, this is quite a treat.”

One of the maids pulled a chair out for Lady Magnolia, and the noblewoman sat across from Ryoka. She accepted another bowl and smiled at Ryoka.

“Don’t be afraid. This is in fact a very rare delicacy I had imported. It’s quite, quite expensive, but once you try it, I think you’ll agree it’s worth the cost. And I was sure a fast Runner would take it to me! I would have been so…disappointed if it was late.”

Ryoka hesitated. That sounded like she had really bailed Persua out of trouble, but she was still flummoxed by the appearance of the ice cream. She wasn’t sure if she should eat first, but Magnolia waved one hand at her.

“Oh, go on. What kind of host would I be if I did not allow you the first bite? I must warn you, though—it’s quite cold! Eat too fast and you will suffer, as I’ve learned.”

Ryoka hesitated, but Lady Magnolia was staring at her with earnest expectation. That was in sharp contrast to the maids behind her, who were all giving Ryoka the glare of death. She had the distinct impression refusing would not end well for her.

Prompted by all the eyes on her, Ryoka slowly took a bite. Her expression didn’t change one iota. Lady Magnolia blinked. The maids would have muttered, but their training kept their faces carefully neutral.

“Huh. Ice cream.”

Ryoka paused and cursed inwardly. She hadn’t meant to say that out loud. Again, Magnolia blinked at her, and her mouth fell open delicately.

“My. You know what this is?”

“…No?”

Magnolia’s eyes sharpened, and she stopped with a huge spoonful of ice cream. She delicately took a bite, then sighed.

“My dear, remember what I said about my Skills? I know you’re lying. But how can that be? I would swear that this delight hasn’t been invented but for a week! I just heard it had been created by a master [Chef] in the northern continent. But you’ve had some before, haven’t you?”

She could tell the truth, or she could lie and reveal the truth. Ryoka shrugged.

“Yeah.”

The maids murmured. Magnolia sighed and tasted the ice cream herself.

“Delicious. Oh, but pardon me. I couldn’t help myself. Well, this is one surprise that quite trumps my surprise! I must say, I’m rather put out and delighted that you know this treat. What did you call it? ‘Ice cream’?”

“Is it called something else around here?”

“I believe it was referred to as ‘gelato’ or some such. But I rather like your name! It certainly is quite reminiscent of cream, isn’t it? But the coldness—and of course the sweetness is incomparable!”

“Mhm.”

Now, Ryoka was sweating. Magnolia leaned over, but Ryoka was astounded at how fast she ate the ice cream. No wonder she got a brain freeze!

“Well, now you simply must tell me how you know of this treat.”

“Uh, it’s common in my home country.”

Magnolia raised her delicate eyebrows.

“Common? It is not in Drath, I assure you. Surely you—but you are telling the truth. How curious.”

Ryoka shifted in her seat. This was bad. She felt like her mind was being read. Well, even if it were just her intentions and whether or not she was telling the truth, there were enough landmines in the conversation to fill a battlefield. She had to shift the conversation.

Gingerly, she took another bite. The ice cream wasn’t actually as sweet as one from her world, but it was hauntingly familiar. She pointed to the melting canister.

“Uh, how much did this cost?”

That wasn’t an appropriate question to judge by the glares she got from the maids. But Magnolia seemed to take the question in stride.

“Well, I hate to bring up such issues in polite conversation, but this little treat cost seventy gold coins, not including the cost of shipping it across the sea and rushing it all the way here.”

Ryoka choked on her bite of ice cream and nearly bit the spoon in half. Magnolia waved a hand at her.

“Oh, please. I know it’s a lot, but for a treat like this? Very worthwhile.”

“So worthwhile you could not eat two bowls.”

Ressa muttered out of the corner of her mouth. Ryoka stared down and saw Magnolia was already getting a refill, and they weren’t small bowls. Magnolia sighed.

“Ressa, you’re right. Of course.”

“I am?”

The [Maid] looked caught off-guard, and Magnolia clicked her fingers lightly.

“I must make this batch last. I shall have some cherries, raspberries, and strawberries in my bowl. Delightfully sweet. Will you have any, Ryoka?”

None of those fruits were in season, but Ryoka had no doubt Magnolia had a stockpile. She shook her head as the fruits appeared within a minute and were ladled into the bowl. That was an entire lunch in and of itself. But Magnolia simply picked up her spoon in delight as Ressa gave her the look of someone watching a truly horrific act of consumption.

Silently, Ryoka stared at the canister of ice cream. It was probably, when all was said and done, the size of a tub of ice cream she could have bought for three dollars in any supermarket in her world.

In this world, seventy gold pieces was about seventy weeks of pay for the average person. And Ryoka just bet that the ‘shipping’ and rush delivery might have doubled the price. If it was overseas? She didn’t want to think about it.

Oblivious to her inner thoughts, Magnolia smiled again at Ryoka as she delicately spooned more ice cream into her mouth.

“I fear we must eat quickly before our ‘ice cream’ melts. But I’m sure we could chat over tea as well. And then you can tell me about how you know of this ice cream and where you come from. I must say, your features are quite striking.”

Ryoka’s expression didn’t change, but Magnolia’s eyes flickered.

“Well, if you don’t prefer to say, I quite understand. But I would like to chat.”

This was hard. Ryoka frowned at her mostly melted ice cream and thought carefully. She was looking for something to distract from the topic of where she was from, and she had nothing…until an idea formed. Then she looked up. Magnolia’s smile grew even wider. She was a third through her bowl! Ryoka glanced at her rapidly moving spoon.

“Aah. I mean…I could talk about one thing.”

Magnolia’s eyes twinkled with anticipation.

“Oh? I know it’s terribly rude to point out what you’re thinking, but that was quite the inspiration you just had.”

“Yeah. I was just thinking about the ice cream.”

“Would you like another scoop? We could all have a third bowl.”

Magnolia instantly offered Ryoka more, and Ressa and both [Maids] shook their heads behind her. Ryoka bit her tongue, amused despite herself, and glanced at Magnolia.

“No. But I do know a lot about it. Ice cream, that is.”

“Really? You are a fan or familiar with the recipe? I’m afraid I wasn’t able to learn anything about what creature produces such a delightful treat. Or how it was made! Do you know where it comes from? I have a small culinary bounty for my [Chefs] to replicate it because I love it so. Any hints I will be sure to reward!”

Magnolia leaned forwards in excitement. Ryoka looked down her bosom and felt like she understood part of the attraction of visiting Magnolia. At least, the attraction for some City Runners. She smiled, once, hesitantly, not the wild grin of someone running. But she did smile, and that was the first step.

“Better. I know how to make it.”





1.27 R


They called her the Deadly Flower Blooming in the North. Which was…a mouthful of a title. After her first meeting with Magnolia Reinhart, Ryoka Griffin had asked who, exactly, she was.

‘Head of the Reinhart Family,’ was her answer. Which begged the question what that meant. The Reinharts were one of the Five Families. Well, what did that mean?

They were called the Five Families of Izril, and she was the scion of her family. Not the matriarch, but the one who was in control.

Magnolia Reinhart.

This was the woman who bounced on her tip-toes with excitement and opened doors by herself. And who Ryoka Griffin had snarked.

She looked nothing like what Ryoka imagined. She was blonde-haired, the tips slightly curling and cut short, and she was neither as tall as Ryoka and Ressa nor half as fit as either one.

Then again, Ryoka Griffin realized how strong Ressa might be when the woman took the canister of ice-cream. It was still half-full and packed with now-melted icewater. The entire thing was a lump of steel. It had to weigh, oh, ten, fifteen pounds at least? It certainly had weighed Ryoka down on the run here, but her pack had been balanced.

No way Persua would have made it. Ressa tossed it up one-handed like someone catching a football, then flicked it sideways at a man in a butler’s costume.

Ryoka stared as the [Maids] led her to the kitchen. Anyone could toss a fifteen pound weight around, but she had never seen someone flick something like that with their fingertips.

Lest Ryoka think the canister had gotten magically lighter, the poor butler caught the canister with both hands like it was a load of bricks and staggered slightly. He almost fell until a [Maid] caught his arm.

Ressa politely gestured.

“This way to the kitchen, Miss.”

She ignored Ryoka’s look as Magnolia clapped her hands together. The [Lady] was indeed nowhere near as tall or even as lanky as Ressa. And Ressa herself was tall, thin, precise—severe might fit her demeanor.

Although the word dangerous suddenly popped into Ryoka’s head as she stared at Ressa longer. She couldn’t have said why, exactly. Why did you think that when you stared at a grinning hyena? Ressa wasn’t smiling nor was she showing any fangs. But the word still appeared for the same reason.

Nor was Magnolia half as heavy as someone who ate that much ice cream—apparently on a daily basis—should be, in Ryoka’s mind. She was actually just—normal. She had the faintest of scars on her chin, barely visible, a nick, really, and a penchant for pink, like her dress and even a sofa.

What made Magnolia Reinhart earn a second glance, or third, were her eyes. Like Ryoka’s, they were green, but more like a forest: darker, less vibrant, and wholly impenetrable if you tried to find out what she was thinking. The pattern in her irises were actually reminiscent of tree branches themselves, waving and dancing.

They would crinkle with mirth or dance from object to object, but those eyes seemed to make untruths harder around them. And there was one more thing that Ryoka saw, which compounded something she’d heard of Magnolia.

Her gaze seemed very, very distant. Ryoka had often seen superior expressions. Her father hosted such people, often friends of his, quite a lot. She had seen arrogance, sometimes in the mirror.

Never once had she seen—the distance in Magnolia Reinhart’s gaze. Not as if she were above but watching from afar. Even when she was up close, it was like she was staring at something far away.

A great, distant goal, like the very mountains in the distance. Thoughtfully—until she noticed you watching.

Then she smiled and winked at Ryoka Griffin. And that look disappeared into merry mischief.

“Do pardon Ressa. She’s grumpy, but a family servant. Which means she takes all the liberties. I wouldn’t have it any other way. To the kitchens! Oh dear, I hope this one is well stocked. This is my vacation home in Celum, you see.”

“You have a lot of homes, then, Lady Reinhart?”

Ryoka trailed after Ressa as the woman and a bevy of servants headed down the halls of this place. Ryoka supposed it was ‘small’ for someone as important as Magnolia seemed to be—but she passed through a foyer with three stories. Yet Magnolia Reinhart just sighed.

“I have a more permanent residence in Invrisil, but travel takes me everywhere. I have a number of residences, oh, all over the north.”

“Nowhere in the south?”

Ryoka realized she’d made a mistake a second after she said that. Ressa turned her head back, and Magnolia laughed until she realized Ryoka was serious.

“The south? Oh, no, the Drakes would never tolerate my kind that far south. Nor would I if I was them. You know the saying, ‘better a serpent in bed than a Reinhart.’ Which is terribly hurtful and entirely accurate.”

She had a grand chuckle at this, and Ryoka hesitated. She felt like running away already, but she had offered to make ice cream. So she saw Magnolia catch her breath.

“—But you truly aren’t from Izril, Miss Ryoka. The north has a strained relationship with the south, which I think you should bear in mind if ever you go past Esthelm and deliver to a Drake city. Not that there’s anywhere safe but Liscor. Unless the Bloodfields have opened up, Ressa?”

Bloodfields? What the heck was that? Ryoka glanced at the [Maid], and Ressa replied.

“Not until the first frosts, Lady Reinhart. In here, Miss Griffin. What will you be needing?”

She showed Ryoka into a huge kitchen, and the young woman hesitated.

“Oh, just a few things. A pot, uh, something to stir with, and—”

Then she realized Magnolia Reinhart was following her into the kitchen. Ryoka gulped, but the [Lady] just fluttered her hands and clasped them together.

“Don’t mind me! I’ll just watch if that’s acceptable. I do admire good cookery. I had lessons, but it never stuck. Imagine it, making gelato! I’ll be the talk of Izril.”

Some days were odd days. Some days you ran, and some days you found yourself in another world with nothing but an iPhone and the clothes on your back. Some days you made ice cream.

But it was a rare day that Ryoka found herself making ice cream in a noblewoman’s house, surrounded by maids, in a kitchen that could have rivaled any cooking show’s setup for expense and expensive things.

She felt out of place in the spotless room, handling the equivalent of stainless steel cooking utensils. They weren’t stainless, but they were steel—and a lot had expensive handles or were magical. Ryoka was still barefoot, and she was painfully conscious of how her feet were dirtying the flawless floor tiling. Not that Lady Magnolia seemed to mind.

The beaming lady of the mansion hovered around Ryoka, excitedly showing her the contents of the amply-stocked kitchen.

“Help yourself to anything you need, Miss Griffin! Oh, but watch out. That knife is hot.”

It was! Ryoka nearly put it back in the block of wood as the red handle warmed up.

“How the—”

“A heating knife. I think you use it to slice meat or…you know, I don’t cook. Ressa, are there [Chefs] here?”

“No, Lady Reinhart, the staff has accommodated your every need without the expense of a live-in [Chef] for your Celum home. That knife is meant to sear what it cuts. These are regular knives, Miss Griffin.”

Okay, magical cutlery. Ryoka put the knife back, and Magnolia bustled around, mostly getting in the way of Ressa, who was pulling out what Ryoka asked for.

“What do we have here? Oh my! We do have a full pantry! Do you need any of this, Miss Griffin?”

She opened pantry doors and revealed shelf after shelf of exotic ingredients that Ryoka half-recognized. Sugar, okay, that made sense. But red sugar? Harvested from the desert? And that was normal compared to delicacies like Wyvern meat. She pointed at a slab of purplish meat in what must have been an enchanted space to keep it fresh.

“Far too tough for me. I tried it once but couldn’t bear the taste of it. It’s very healthy, or so I’m told but…what does this ice cream need?”

“Uh—sugar.”

“Crimson sugar or regular sugar? Nali-sticks?”

“What are those?”

Magnolia glanced up.

“Oh, a Balerosian treat. Akin to concentrated sugar, I believe. Well, we have regular sugar—I import the stuff, you know. I have a little deal with an [Admiral] about shipping it.”

Now that sounded like an important person talking. Ryoka just stared before she saw Ressa plonk a regular bag of sugar on the table. Reminded of her task, Ryoka got back to work, trying to remember what she needed.

The oddness of the kitchen wasn’t that it was so grand or had so many equivalents to modern cooking equipment. No, it was that most of the food storage in the kitchen consisted of shelves of food left out in the open. And even in the pantry, items like milk, butter, and even fresh vegetables had been neatly stockpiled away without any kind of refrigeration.

There was no helping it. Ryoka had to ask. She cut off Lady Magnolia as the other woman began talking about a strange jello that looked like it was moving.

“Doesn’t all this rot?”

Magnolia glanced at the shelves of uncovered food while the maids following her gave Ryoka silent glares.

“This? I shouldn’t think so. I paid for the best preservation spells, and I have an [Enchanter] come by every year or so to make sure the runes are holding. My people are quite pleased with all the space, which I do need for all the delightful treats I order.”

Ryoka stared at the tiny etched runes on the side of each cupboard. They were in no language she knew. Preservation runes? Well, that was handy. She wondered just how expensive they were.

“Not too expensive, at least for the quality of work done. Mages charge very affordable prices. I gather most inns and some of the larger shops use such runes quite often.”

Lady Magnolia smiled as Ryoka’s head shot up and the younger woman looked at her.

“Not mind reading my dear. Just an educated guess and a few Skills. I’m sure you’ve heard it said that it is a frivolous class, but [Ladies] have a few useful tricks in social situations. You do scream disapproval now and then.”

“Mm.”

Wait, she could tell when Ryoka was annoyed? The City Runner began to sweat, and Magnolia clapped her hands before waving them to reassure her.

“Please don’t grow alarmed! Or take offense. Oh my, you are quite taciturn, aren’t you? Dragons should be more forthcoming! Please, I will stop bothering you, but let us make this ice cream! How shall we begin?”

Magnolia waited excitedly as Ryoka looked around the room and tried to remember all of the ingredients. It had been a long time since Ryoka made ice cream. She’d almost forgotten how, but as a child—

“We need some salt too. A pinch of it. And vanilla.”

“Of course. Ressa?”

The head maid nodded and directed her maids to the appropriate shelves. She paused as one maid brought her a bundle of wrapped vanilla bean stalks.

“They are quite expensive, milady.”

Lady Magnolia pshed and waved at Ressa impatiently.

“Oh, nonsense, Ressa, don’t be a spoilsport. I’m minded to give Ryoka anything she wants if she can make this ice cream.”

“One stalk is fine.”

Ryoka accepted the dry, stick-like piece of vanilla from the glowering maid and broke it open. She sniffed at the strong smell and began extracting the beans from within.

“Now we need to heat the milk, salt, and sugar together in a pot. Got a big one?”

Lady Magnolia clapped her hands together as Ressa glowered and found a large, polished pot and set it over one of the kitchen stoves. She started the fire underneath the pot with a single touch to a glowing red rune on the stove front.

“Oh, I see! You’re making a custard! How delightful!”

Silently, Ryoka mixed the ingredients together and created a creamy, off-white custard in the pot. She poked at it with her spoon and decided it was thick enough for ice cream. What next? Oh, right.

“…Crap.”

This time, Ryoka’s language nearly earned her a slap on the back of the head. Ressa’s hand twitched, and a small vein began to throb on her forehead.

“What’s wrong?”

“I might not be able to make this after all. I forgot something.”

Lady Magnolia looked dismayed. She peered into the pot.

“It looks perfectly fine to me, but—is there an ingredient missing?”

Ryoka shook her head. She gestured at the pot.

“We need to freeze this. Or rather, we need to freeze it slowly while stirring.”

That was a big problem. For all this world had things like preservation spells, Ryoka was sure they hadn’t invented freezers or air-conditioning. But to her surprise, Lady Magnolia laughed and put her hand over her ample bosom in relief.

“Oh, is that all?”

Magnolia waved an airy hand. She turned to another one of her maids.

“Yvony, would you be a dear and send a message to the Mage’s Guild? Tell them I need an [Elementalist] mage capable of using basic ice magic.”

Bemused, Ryoka watched as Yvony, a fair-haired maid with fairer complexion, bowed and quickly trotted out of the room.

“Is she going to run there?”

Lady Magnolia chuckled politely, and the other maids smiled.

“We are not all as fleet-footed as you Runners. No, she’s just here to bring me—ah, thank you Yvony.”

The maid had returned with a small, blue book with gold lattice work on the cover. Lady Magnolia opened it and showed Ryoka the blank pages as Yvony unscrewed an ink pot and dipped a quill in it.

“If you will observe, this is a magical book. One of two, in fact. Whenever one writes on one page, the other book immediately copies over the same writing. It’s quite the ingenious way of talking without needing to cast a [Message] or [Communication] spell each time.”

She handed the book to Yvony as the maid wrote a few brisk, short lines on the paper. The book glowed once, and then the light faded from the pages. Magnolia clapped her hands together and turned to Ryoka.

“And now we wait. A [Mage] should be along in a matter of minutes. The Mage’s Guild is quite prompt at responding, and happily, they are located only a few streets away. Shall we retire for a cup of tea?”

Given her choice, Ryoka would have refused, but the thing about a request made by a lady is that it is not really a request. In short order, she found herself sitting and sipping from a hot cup of tea and trying not to make a face.

Her heritage as a Japanese-American said that she should at least appreciate good tea, as Ryoka had Japanese grandparents who insisted she try the stuff. But her American roots and personality insisted coffee was the only way to live. Sadly, she hadn’t encountered that beverage here yet, so she pretended to drink her tea while Magnolia seated herself in the guest room on the pink sofa again.

“Sugar?”

Once again, she surprised Ryoka by offering her a bowl of sugar herself. Ryoka passed it up—then saw to her mild horror Magnolia repeating the same trick as she had over the ice cream.

Namely—she took the lid off the bowl, and ignoring the spoon, poured a fourth of it into her cup. Ressa’s face was blank as Ryoka saw Magnolia stir.

“You, uh—like sugar a lot, don’t you?”

“It is one of life’s pleasures. Now, a snack. Ressa! How about some baked Yellats? Are you a fan of them, Miss Griffin?”

“I’ve never had any.”

“Really? They are a quite common food across Chandrar, the desert continent, you know. Some people consider them as plebian as potatoes, but I find them delightfully good in any number of dishes. Spicy, too. Ah, here we are.”

Ryoka was served some hot, steaming root or starch vegetables. They were almost as orange as carrots, but more resembled broccoli. They had the texture of sweet potatoes, but they were indeed spicy!

Magnolia nibbled on one as Ryoka found they were good enough to eat. Ressa walked off as Yvony came back, and the butler hovered around with a tray as Magnolia kept speaking.

“I must say, I have been absolutely dying to know what it is that makes you run, Miss Ryoka. If I may confess—I’m not asking you solely out of pure interest as well. I have a teensy bet going on with some other ladies in my gossip circle about it. I told them I had heard of a City Runner running barefoot, and they all assured me none of them had heard of anything like it! They live all abouts, you see. North, northeast, northwest—Celum is too far south for most of the nobility to live.”

Ryoka paused. She was used to attention for running barefoot, but this was the first time she’d ever been bet on.

“Really? It’s that fascinating to you? Um, Lady Magnolia?”

The [Lady] covered her mouth with a hand as she laughed.

“Why, haven’t you realized what a splash you’ve made? A young woman becomes the fastest local Runner practically overnight? Yet alone running barefoot? People are wondering why you run barefoot. Is it part of a special class? Or is it a secret?”

“No secret.”

Magnolia waited, but the young woman sitting across from her said nothing more. She cleared her throat politely.

“Then—would you mind telling me? I would simply love to know.”

Lady Magnolia leaned forwards over her tea eagerly. Even the maids were quietly listening as they bustled around the drawing room performing menial and unneeded tasks.

Ryoka shrugged.

“I just like running barefoot. I hate shoes.”

Her audience blinked at her. Ryoka shrugged. There wasn’t much more to say. She eyed the maids as they shifted and exchanged glances behind their mistress’ back. Idly, Ryoka wondered how much gossiping they did when they were done with work.

Silence followed Ryoka’s answer, which was then broken by laughter. Lady Magnolia chuckled and then laughed quietly. It wasn’t boisterous or uncontrolled; like everything else about her, it was polite and refined. But it was genuine.

“You, my dear Ryoka Griffin, are the most delightful young lady I have ever met! You give away nothing.”

She lifted her cup, and a waiting maid filled it with the dark brown tea that Ryoka was trying not to ingest.

“Ah, well. A simple answer, but not from a simple person. I suppose our little gossip circle will have to annul the bet. How interesting. But then, to be fair, I’m told half-Elves do eschew shoes all the time. Did you learn that from them?”

“Nope. I’m not—acquainted with half-Elves that much. It’s just a hobby. It’s good for your feet. Sort of.”

Ryoka was proud of her reply. She knew that half-Elves existed, but she had only seen one while delivering all those potions to the adventurers. She did want to meet them, and Magnolia shook her head.

“Well, I cannot imagine how you don’t poke holes in your feet like that. And you are so fit! Did you ever think of joining a [Knight] order?”

“I’m not big on law enforcement.”

Truer words had never been spoken. Magnolia laughed at that uproariously and shook her head.

“Then have you run like that all your life?”

“All the time.”

“Indoors and outdoors?”

“Yep.”

Magnolia Reinhart put her chin in her hand. Ryoka hoped at this point the [Lady] would leave her alone. She had been the most uncooperative, inhospitable guest she could imagine, and anyone else would have surely thrown her out on her head. But Magnolia either wanted ice cream that badly or something else was going on.

The latter turned out to be true, because the [Lady]’s eyes lit up and she clapped her hands together with a sigh.

“Fascinating. You know, I’m completely stumped. Ressa, do you have a guess?”

She turned, and Ryoka jumped as she saw Ressa appear with the tea kettle in hand. The [Maid] had entered the room, and she bowed.

“I’m out. Either she was lying—and I had a truth spell on her the entire time—or it’s somewhere you missed, like a paradise nation.”

Hm? What did that mean? Ryoka felt a moment of uncertainty as Magnolia nodded.

“Not Izril, Baleros, Chandrar, Terandria—well, maybe the Kingdom of Keys or somewhere new like…? Taimaguros? But she would know [Knights]. Wistram’s rare children know magic, and no one would be allowed to run around barefoot in Drath, the likeliest option, because of how rude that would be. Nor on Rhir for safety. And Izril? I am stumped.”

Ryoka Griffin’s blank look began to turn more and more alarmed as Magnolia began reciting names. Names which Ryoka Griffin vaguely recognized as every major landmass in the entire world. Magnolia Reinhart beamed at Ryoka, and Ressa stared at the now-nervous City Runner.

“For all the money, then, Miss Griffin. Do the seas carry you home? A [Storm Sailor] or one of the Drowned Folk might walk a deck barefoot.”

Ryoka Griffin hesitated. And she opened her mouth to say something, before she realized—

Did that woman, Ressa, say truth spells? She had no idea what the Drowned Folk were, but if she said yes, she lied. If she said no…

Magnolia Reinhart kept that gaze on Ryoka, and that distant look in her eyes—was suddenly gone. Then, two green irises stared at Ryoka, and the young woman felt like she was engulfed in a forest of green. A watchful forest, and Magnolia was suddenly there, and the young woman saw the real [Lady].

The Deadly Flower Blooming in the North smiled and chuckled as someone knocked on the door. The [Mage] had come.

“Just a joke, Miss Griffin. I know you didn’t come from a ship. Or else someone would have known you from a port city. Well, I am stumped, and I thought I was playing the guessing-game well. That should be our [Mage]. Now for ice cream!”

She shot to her feet and headed to the door with alacrity. Ryoka, though, stopped a moment and glanced at Ressa. The [Maid] smiled at her, and Ryoka had to ask a question.

“Is…I heard she’s the hero of some kind of war.”

The [Maid]’s smile vanished in a second. She gave Ryoka a long, long look, and the City Runner realized she might have made another mistake. But Ressa just dipped her head.

“The Antinium Wars? Those are ancient history. She was no hero, the kind you’ll see in statues. But she was.”

Ryoka expected Ressa to follow that up with, ‘so show some respect,’ but the [Maid] just held out a hand.

“May I take your cup, Miss?”



——



Ice cream. It tasted sweet, was hopefully cold and, apparently, was about as addictive as hardcore drugs to those who’d never had it before.

She hadn’t been too sure about her recipe, but at Lady Magnolia’s insistence, Ryoka had filled a huge pot with custard. After the mage had arrived and the ice cream had been successfully churned into the frozen treat with a few hiccups, Lady Magnolia, her maids, and even the mage had joined Ryoka in eating the ice cream.

As a result, the big pot was now empty, and Ryoka’s stomach was not happy with her. The mage had left just half an hour ago, clutching at his stomach and head. He still had a blissful smile on his face, though.

To Ryoka’s surprise, the mage had been quite interested in making ice cream. Perhaps that was just his personality, but it was also probably due to Magnolia’s infectious enthusiasm. She’d had a maid taking notes of Ryoka’s every action as she’d figured out how to mix the ice cream properly.

Well, that was fine in the end because it meant that Ryoka didn’t have to explain how to make the ice cream twice. And now that the ice cream was eaten, Ryoka could finally leave. She was at the final stage of that process—trying to shake off Lady Magnolia at the door.

The [Lady] did not bring up Ryoka’s point of origin again, and Ryoka could almost believe that Magnolia was just a kindly [Lady] trying to noblesse oblige to the max.

“I still can’t believe you won’t take at least some token for teaching me this delightful recipe. Won’t you take some of it with you? To the Runner’s Guild at least. You could let them all share it. Or some gold coins? I do intend to replicate the recipe, and that will put my supplier out. Oh, and Ressa? Make a note for the [Farmers] in First Landing to grow some vanilla. Bully them gently into it. With love and kisses from me, or they’ll miss the profits in a year.”

Ryoka shrugged and tried to back out the door as Lady Magnolia fussed around her. The almost-lethal amounts of sugar the older woman had imbibed didn’t seem to be slowing her down like it had the other maids and Ryoka. Even Ressa, the faithful head maid, looked slightly ill after coming down from the sugar high and realizing how much she’d eaten, but Magnolia was as energetic and bright as ever.

“I don’t want any ice cream, thanks. The other Runners—I’m not that chummy with them. They can eat cake. And it was just ice cream. I don’t feel right about taking the gold.”

Plus, if Persua learned how much money Magnolia was offering her, she’d never stop complaining.

With a sigh, Lady Magnolia gave up on the issue, much to Ryoka’s relief.

“If you’re sure. I suppose there’s no harm in it if it won’t aggravate things. I do know the Runners compete. How about a little gift, though? Say, a bag of holding?”

Ryoka hesitated as the maid named Ressa coughed and muttered about the expense. Did she say a bag of holding? As in—the magical object that would hold things? That was tempting. But again, Ryoka looked at Magnolia’s dancing green eyes and remembered that intent look.

“…No. I’m fine, thanks.”

Lady Magnolia sighed, but she made no further arguments, much to Ryoka and her head maid’s relief. Ryoka finished stretching out the leg that had fallen asleep and then moved to open the door. Ressa intercepted her and held the door open politely. Her hands were gloved. Apparently, that made a big difference to what she could touch and Ryoka couldn’t.

Time to run. But Ryoka turned at the door and nodded to Lady Magnolia.

“Thanks.”

“On the contrary, it is I who should thank you, Miss Ryoka. But if I might have one last question before you go?”

Ryoka reluctantly paused at the door as Ressa closed it in her face. She turned slightly and glanced at Magnolia.

“Do you, in fact, come from any place in this world?”

Silence. Ryoka’s face didn’t change, but Magnolia smiled. She looked straight at Ryoka Griffin and then nodded to Ressa. The door swung open, and Ryoka stumbled a bit as she trotted out the door. But now she was looking back over her shoulder.

“I—”

“I hope you will accept more requests from me in the future. I would so love to chat.”

The [Lady] twinkled merrily. She looked Ryoka in the eye, and the Runner inhaled. Then Ryoka was gone before Magnolia finished speaking.



——



“You scared her off. I thought you were trying to be subtle.”

Ressa closed the door as Lady Magnolia watched Ryoka Griffin running for the hills. The [Lady] turned as she dropped the smile, but she still looked amused. Then she put a hand over her chest and pretended to swoon.

Her maid let her bounce off a wall and onto the carpet. Magnolia glared up at Ressa as Yvony and her staff dashed over to help her up.

“…I think I’m going to have a heart-attack. Thank you for catching me incidentally, Ressa.”

“Self-inflicted injuries are not my job. You don’t think she’s actually from somewhere else, do you?”

Ressa scoffed, and Magnolia sat up.

“She didn’t answer, but the look in her eyes—that was a joke, Ressa. That was supposed to be a joke. I really thought I’d hear she was from some provincial place.”

“And you just let her run off, never to return. You didn’t even put a tracking spell on the bag of holding.”

Magnolia stood back up and brushed at her skirts.

“She’ll be back. Or we will find her, but I would hope she returns of her own volition, Ressa. A young woman as vivaciously intelligent as that will, even if she has all the manners and social graces of a rabid Eater Goat. If only to make excuses. I hope she’s no runaway [Princess] or daughter of someone important. We have enough of those already.”

She gazed out the window and saw Ryoka Griffin was already turning down the street. Magnolia shook her head as Ressa glanced out the window.

“My, but she is quick. Oh, and Ressa? One more thing. Get in touch with the old man.”

“…Which old man is it? The pervert or the lazy one?”

Magnolia scowled.

“The one we like. Wake him up if you can. Tell him I need a favor. Tell him to look into…er…how do you spell ‘Ryoka Griffin’?”

“I believe the Runner’s Guild has her name written down.”

“Right. Yes. Use that.”



——



I have to slow down after I get a few streets away from Magnolia’s house. I put my hand on my stomach and try not to throw up.

“Woog.”

Ice cream is not good for my body, especially if I have to run. I feel like I’ve got a rock in my stomach. And yet, it might have been worth it. If only it hadn’t been vanilla,* life might have been perfect.



*If I have to eat ice cream, it’s got to be mint chocolate chip. Vanilla is just vanilla. But I love mint. And peppermint. And spearmint. I…really wish I had some gum.



As I slowly walk and then transition back into a slow jog, I think about Magnolia or as I now know her, the scariest person I’ve met in this world. Apparently, someone with her class can practically read minds, or at least tell how I’m feeling. That is not a comforting thought.

Jeez. She nearly figured out where I came from in a few minutes. What a terrifyingly scary lady.

It might be wrong to think, but when I first met her, I thought she was just another plump social butterfly without a thought in the world. But…that’s what she wants people to assume about her. The real Magnolia is sharp and intelligent. Remember that next time you visit her.

…Which won’t be for a while. I know there’s going to be hell to pay if Persua has her way, and besides, now I have a good reason not to visit Magnolia in the future.

“Right. No Magnolia deliveries for a while.”

But with that said, I will be doing research on her. War hero? I’ll just bet Garia knows something about her—how Magnolia got her wealth, if she was married, etc. Know your enemy, right? Well, Magnolia isn’t my enemy, and I’d like to keep her that way.

Does she really think I’m from another world? No—no, I should have played it off. Stupid Ryoka! The last thing I need is to cause a stir. What are the dangers of talking about Earth? Gee, let me make a list. But I can pretend I was just surprised. I just need to go back once I’m ready, which means I need intelligence.

It’s too bad there are no libraries around. That’s medieval times for you, but at least I have a resource in a local—Garia.

…Garia. Her name triggers a thought in my mind as I run down another street. It’s getting empty this late in the day, but I see another Street Runner disappear the instant I turn down the street. Garia. Oh. Oh yeah.

Tomorrow, I have to do that delivery with Garia. That will be a pain. Not just because we’ve got to carry fifty pounds on our backs, but because she’s going to talk to me the entire time. Which is fine. It’s a normal, Human thing to do. It’s just a pain in the ass.

Well, I promised, so that’s that. Forget about it, but don’t actually forget about it. At least I won’t have to stick around the Runner’s Guild too long waiting for another job.

I wonder whether there will be any consequences for making ice cream. What a ridiculous thought but…let’s explore that. Hm.

It probably wasn’t a good idea to share the recipe, but it made Magnolia happy, and I guess that’s better than her being upset. But what does it mean to spread that kind of information?

Well…if I had to guess, it would mean that the poor person who invented ice cream isn’t going to be as rich as she or he hopes. But it also might mean a revolution of sorts within the city. Ice cream is exceptionally possible, and thanks to magic, easy to make even in this day and age.

Does that mean I might soon see it on the streets? But no—unless you have a mage on standby, ice cream isn’t easy to keep. I guess the nobility will enjoy it for the most part until someone revolutionizes the ice box or fridge. That’s the way it goes, right? Trickle-down, just like how the ice cream cone melts.

I get that far in my reasoning when I notice the other runners.

As I’m jogging down one of Celum’s streets, I notice a few people keeping pace. I’m not going full-tilt with pedestrians, and so I see a lanky stride and turn my head. I blink as a familiar face appears.

Claudeil. He looks busy, running ahead of me; I’m catching up to him. What’s he doing here? He must have gone to Celum with Persua. Hah! I bet she dragged them both here, hoping I failed.

Well, he’s ignoring me, so I ignore him. I’m already looking for somewhere to turn when I frown and realize I’m hearing pounding shoes on the paving stones to my left. I turn my head, and there’s someone else.

Toriska. She comes out of a side-alley, and I blink. Her pace is slower, but every eight steps she blurs ahead a bit. It’s some kind of Skill that makes up for her shit running form, but she’s here too. She gives me one bored look and then glances away as she heads down the street.

The same way as Claudeil. I feel a tingle on my neck and start to slow, but then I see something behind me. More Runners.

They appear from behind me and from other streets in a huge crowd. Ten—no, twenty Street Runners appear out of nowhere and surround me. It’s so sudden that I don’t think of running away before they’re all around me. I drift left—and half a dozen Street Runners from the guild I was at plus Claudeil and Toriska are elbow-to-elbow with me.

What the hell is going on? Suddenly, I’m running in a crowd, and they’re jostling and forcing me to run at their speed. I recognize a few of them from the guild, but why are they here? Well, whatever they’re doing, it’s aimed at me. I try to push out of the crowd, but they’re packed too tightly.

“Get away.”

I growl, and they ignore me. Well, of course they do. I try to shove my way left, but when I do, they bunch up and ram into me. Hard.

“You annoying—”

I throw an elbow, and Claudeil swears as I hit him in the ribs. He’s a big guy, though, and shoves me back. I make a fist.

Okay, no more nice girl, not that there ever was one to begin with. I stop suddenly and trip up two of the runners behind me. It turns out to be a mistake, because they trip and fall, and their shoes kick into my feet and ankles as they go down.

“Damn it.”

Gyaaaaaaah! That really hurt! But now I’m free. I really want to check my feet and see if their stupid shoes ripped any skin, but something’s up. I turn and run left even as the pack of Street Runners turns to follow me.

“Don’t let her get away!”

That’s Toriska’s voice. I’ll get her and Claudeil! Although he does have a club and Toriska has a knife. Wait—where’s Persua? But before I can think of that, someone cannonballs into me, and I go stumbling left—then a bunch of hands drag me sideways.

They shove me left, onto a smaller street. At this point, I’m really starting to get annoyed. And slightly—worried. I could get nastier, but if it comes down to a fight against this many people, they’d kick the crap out of me. No, screw it. I can lose these idiots the instant I get out of the city gates. I’ll go to Remendia, and if more of them show up there, I’ll talk to the City Watch. Or the Runner’s Guild.

All I have to do is break free of the group. And that’s easy and hard at the same time. The easy part is grabbing one Runner by the shoulder and shoving her hard so she smacks into a wall. The hard part’s going to be when they start trying to hit me.

But they don’t. All at once, the pack of Street Runners in front of me breaks up. I run forwards, towards the mouth of the alleyway before Claudeil and Toriska can catch up. Another three steps and I’ll be in the clear. Why the hell would they—

I see it too late. A foot’s there to trip me up, and though I try to jump over it, it catches me, and down I go. I stumble forwards and hit the street so hard I think I split my lip.

Ow. All the air goes out of me. My teeth explode into pain. I look up—and someone’s staring down at me.

Persua.

I don’t have the time to speak before she leaps back. The other runners are already retreating as she backs up.

I’m going to kill her. I push myself up, then blink down.

“What the—?”

My feet are—sticky. There’s something on them. It looks like a spiderweb? Thick and—and then as I’m trying to tug my legs, I realize I hear something. I hear and feel something.

Rumbling. I feel it in the ground and look up too late. A heavy cart pulled by a large mule thunders at me down the small street.

Oh. Of course.

I roll and see a familiar sallow face grinning at me as the other Runners disappear into alleys. Get up. Get up!

The cart barrels down towards me as I scramble to my feet, despite the webs gluing my feet together. I dodge left, but then something slams into me. It feels like I just hit a patch of solid air. Magic. Down I go, winded.

I look up and see the massive wheels crunching down the road towards me. So quick. And I’m lying right in its way.

Oh. Yeah. I’d almost forgotten what I hate about the world. Sometimes I forget, but I’m always reminded in time. What I hate about the world is—

People.

For once I’m too slow.

Crunch.





1.28 A


Some days, he, Klbkchhezeim, hated Liscor. Hated Liscor and Izril and every miserable species his people had failed to kill in their first war upon this continent. And he wondered when the third war would begin and thought of killing them all.

It was no longer as easy as it would have been. He was old, now. His body wasn’t the one he remembered.

The days had long gone when he had another name. Klbkch, they called him now.

Senior Guardsman Klbkch. And that was just the latest name among nearly a dozen he’d held, many in his people’s tongues that only they knew.

Klbkchhezeim of the Centenium. No one outside the Antinium now knew what that even truly meant or why it mattered.

Klbkch the Slayer of the Antinium Wars.

Now…Senior Guardsman Klbkch, a respected figure of almost a decade in Liscor’s Watch. How things changed.

How fast. He still remembered the first time that he had walked through Liscor’s streets, and every child and adult had hid from him. How they feared him until he caught his first criminal, a serial killer.

Even his partner, Relc—the first time they’d met, the Drake had tried to punch him. He still did, but that was apparently ‘affectionate.’ These days, they were partners. Even if Klbkch had hit Relc for the first time in their entire career as guards.

“You punched Relc?”

The Watch Captain stared at Klbkch as he gave her a formal report at the end of the week. Senior Guards didn’t have to report to a Watch Sergeant or a Senior Guardsman like regular Guards. They were trusted enough to act autonomously, even disappear if need be on an investigation.

He was a special case. Both he and the Watch Captain knew it. She was an excellent superior, Watch Captain Zevara. She both respected his role as liaison with the Hive and as a [Guard].

He knew she might have to kill him if war broke out again. Or try.

Even now, it would be easy. His blades were the one thing that hadn’t changed over his life. Two silver shortswords. He could sweep them from his sides and kill her.

It was not the first time Klbkch had thought that. But it was a rare thought these days. When he had contemplated his coworkers, and this foreign city, it had been out of self-defense. The Free Hive was meant to be a link between the Antinium and other species. A pact, for both to learn of each other and gain something.

So why did he think of killing her? Why Relc? Why everyone he thought to meet?

Why today? The answer was simple.

It was despair. It was the conversation he’d had with his Queen. They’d agreed to reveal the buried door. It would doubtless begin an event that might benefit them, especially if the ruins were cleared.

But that…that was a symbol of weakness. Their Hive should not need to stoop to such measures. They should not be so pathetic.

No resources. No aid. Not from the other Hives. Damn them. Not from the Queens. Nor the other Centenium. They were supposed to be Antinium. But it had been ten years.

Ten years of silence. Ten years of being ostracized for thinking differently. Ten years of failure. Almost exactly.

Klbkch had tried. He’d learned to be a [Guard], sat and eaten with Relc, ignored the tricks and earned the trust of Liscor. If that was all, he could consider his job done.

But his Hive had never done what it was meant to do. The Workers and Soldiers toiled, dumbly. They leveled up—a few were over Level 5.

Level 5. Children passed Level 5 before they were ten, some of them. Every species levelled, but the only two Antinium in the entire Hive of Liscor above Level 10 were Klbkch and the Queen.

Perhaps the Grand Queen was right and this was all folly. Perhaps this was a mistake. And he was only waking up to it today. But Klbkch knew they could level. They were just not…

True Antinium.

Now, he was losing faith. He was tired. He did the same thing day after day as Izril grew stronger. The Hive did not grow, but struggled in the depths. And he was just patrolling, settling petty disputes.

He wanted to sit down and have a glass of…blue fruit juice. Spaghetti, perhaps. And why was he thinking that? The inn. Erin Solstice. The silly games of chess.

He shouldn’t have indulged her, let alone brought Workers on a trip and wasted money on the inn. But it was almost enjoyable. A kind of bright spot in his days of searching for a spark in his mindless Hive. Wasn’t he entitled to one after ten years?

It was a sign, perhaps, that he was growing tired. Losing focus. Perhaps he should ask the Queen, petition the Grand Queen for a Prognugator to replace him.

He was just so—empty. And no one knew it.

The Watch Captain coughed, and Klbkch realized he hadn’t heard a word she’d said. He jerked, and his blades nearly swept across the desk. But he kept his hands folded behind his back.

“I’m sorry, Watch Captain. You were saying?”

She gave him a surprised look.

“Are you tired, Klbkch?”

“I may have received less-than-adequate sleep, Watch Captain. The error is mine. Please feel free to dock my pay.”

She almost laughed and raised her brows. The Drake coughed a plume of smoke to one side. He watched her tail, and it was wagging slightly on the ground under the desk. Amusement, then.

“If I did that to Senior Guardsman Klbkch, I’d have to censure Jeiss and Beilmark and all the others. Relc would never get paid. And about the punch.”

He waited. It was a poor act for a Senior Guard, but Zevara just shuffled the report into her stack of notes.

“…I’m sure Relc had it coming. You’ve now joined every single Senior Guard and half the regulars who’ve taken some kind of swing at him. I’ll overlook this with a stern warning.”

She raised her brows, and Klbkch waited for it. Then he realized she was being either ironic, sardonic, or funny.

He had learned to nod along and did so.

“Then, my punishment, Watch Captain?”

“Don’t do it again? Relc’s a wild card. If he weren’t a [Spearmaster], I’d have no time for half the trouble he causes. I’m going to consider this as an ‘interdisciplinary act between partners.’ You two are a good team. I won’t keep you. Get some rest. If anything, you made my day when I heard about it.”

She chuckled again awkwardly, and Klbkch stood there.

Other species still confused him. He had broken a rule, attacked his partner, and half the Watch House had come over to shake his hand or laugh about it. Even Relc had said he was ‘right.’

Confusing. They still confused him even now, after ten years.

It would be easy to kill her. But what purpose would that serve? They might be enemies—but he knew her name. Klbkch remembered when Zevara had become Watch Captain, and he had shaken her claw and thought it was good for the city. She smiled at him, and he was lost.

The inn. Klbkch saluted and turned to walk down the stairs. To his surprise, the Watch Captain stood with him. She often went to check the Watch House, but she was deliberately not affectionate or close like the previous Watch Captain was. She was good at her job.

“I’ll walk with you downstairs. Are you heading back to your Hive?”

She said it cautiously, for she didn’t know his Hive well. Klbkch nodded and rested one hand on his belt as if he were adjusting it.

Was this a trap? He doubted it. But he wondered. This was unusual, and she was better with a sword than all but Jeiss.

And she breathed fire. She walked behind him down the narrow staircase, and Klbkch heard the scrape of something from below. His foot missed a step coming down.

There were a lot of people below. Too many, unless the Watch was mobilizing for riots or some larger activity. Most should be checking out and patrolling places, but he thought he heard a number of bodies. Breaths intaken quickly and a whisper.

“…coming. Quiet! Ready—”

Ah.

Klbkch’s mandibles rose in a smile. So it was today, then. He lightly let his hands fall and knew the Watch Captain was behind him. He hadn’t suspected it at all. He began to reach out for his Queen. Relc was down there. He could see his partner’s tail swishing behind the front desk as Klbkch descended.

Dozens of [Guards] were loitering around. He might make it out the door or the windows. Then? There would be war. Klbkch slowly reached for the sword on his left with his hand as he saw Relc’s head come up. And he realized—he didn’t really want to kill them.

“Surprise! Congratulations, Senior Guardsman Klbkch!”

The Antinium’s hand was on the hilt of his sword. He froze as Relc sprang up, and the Watch House erupted into applause. He let go and saw Watch Captain Zevara stop.

She, and perhaps only one or two other [Guards], had noticed his hand move. Senior Guardsman Jeiss, the best swordsman in the Watch—blinked—but then he laughed. And he applauded as Klbkch turned, confused.

“What is going on? Am I being pranked? Again?”

He looked at Relc, accusatorially now, angry. It was clear this was not an ambush; no one had bows, and no one was armed. Yet everyone had been waiting for him.

“Not this time. Senior Guardsman Klbkch, apologies for the surprise.”

Zevara broke in, glancing at him as he straightened. She seemed to realize his mistake and quickly nodded around.

“Relc, you idiot. Didn’t you drop a hint?”

“What? I did! Captain Z—”

“Don’t call me that.”

“I was talking about the old days all patrol! And how long Klb’s been in the Watch, and that we should end our patrol early—”

Relc protested as the other [Guards] laughed at him. Klbkch hesitated. He never knew what to say, but he had found honesty worked.

“I believed you were trying to get me to buy you snacks. Again. And skip work.”

More laughter, and now Jeiss and Beilmark, partners, laughed as Relc turned red. Zevara herself issued a rare laugh and shook her head.

“Well, that’s my fault for trusting Relc. Alright, settle down. We’re going to make it quick. Evening patrol has to go out, but we’re all gathered today, and we had a little whip-round to celebrate you, Klbkch.”

“Me? What is the occasion, Watch Captain Zevara?”

She had produced something from her bag of holding. Klbkch turned to her, and part of him still suspected a trap. But he somehow knew it wasn’t a weapon she brought out of the magical bag. He stared at what she held.

It was…a badge. A bright, blue-and-silver badge for Liscor’s Watch. It had the symbol of their city on it, a building over waves. It was a replica of the one on his chest that he would take off when he was off-duty. But his was plain iron, battered and worn.

This had silver and bright azure paint. It looked expensive. Zevara offered it to him.

“Straight from Rafaema’s forges. It’s not much, but we also have a reservation at Wishdrinks with your name on it. We know you’re always busy with your Hive, but you’re booked during your patrol time at the end of the week. We’ll all drop by.”

A badge? Wishdrinks was an expensive pub fashionable with younger Drakes and Gnolls. Klbkch stared at the badge and looked down at his own.

“Is my own badge so poorly maintained that it has become an issue for the Watch? You should have alerted me earlier, Relc. Watch Captain, I apologize for—”

And the laughter grew. At his expense, Klbkch was sure, but he held still as even Zevara laughed. Relc took over.

“Klbkch, you idiot. It’s a gift. Don’t you know what day it is?”

Senior Guardsman Klbkch stood there blankly, then he realized. They had remembered it too.

“Ten years. Well, it’s not exactly ten years, but it’s close enough to the day the Antinium entered Liscor. We thought this was the day to celebrate it.”

“Plus Beilmark has her birthday next week, so we’re making room for it.”

Jeiss muttered, and his Gnoll partner kicked him in the leg.

“You idiot.”

People were chuckling, and Jeiss raised his claws in apology, but Klbkch just stood there. Zevara was offering him the badge, and he automatically took it with two of his fours hands. He turned it over and saw how it was expensive. Fresh steel, delicate paint. Someone had even written his name in tiny, gold lettering around the bottom.

Senior Guardsman Klbkch.

It was the first gift he had received in his entire life for doing his job. He had been offered thank-you gifts from a boy he’d saved from being run down by a horse. People he’d saved from being mugged or attacked. Co-workers had offered him trinkets.

He used to turn them all down because it was unbecoming of a [Guard] to take them. Then, on advice from Relc, shared them instead if they were edible.

This…was a marker.

“Ten years.”

Zevara looked at him, and he glanced up and saw her light purple eyes watching him. As if, perhaps, she knew what this day meant to him. How could she?

How could she know the exhaustion that had been in his soul before his people had even come to Izril? The frustration of a war fought twice to no avail?

And now, ten years of failure. Ten years of looking for a single mind in his mindless Hive? For an Antinium like him? But all Workers and Soldiers did was become Aberration. He patrolled a city that was not his own, and that—

That was the only reason he’d stayed sane these ten years. His hand curled around the badge. Gently, Klbkch replaced his old one with the new one and put the old one in his belt pouch.

“Looking good. We should put you in clothing though, Klb, my man. Especially for Wishdrinks. Imagine if I walked in with only underwear?”

Relc spoke to laughter, and someone elbowed him.

“That’s because you’re ugly as shit, Relc. I bet you Senior Guardsman Klbkch’s handsome for an Antinium.”

The Drake turned and kicked the [Guard] who’d said that. Zevara shouted before a fight could break out.

“Alright, that’s enough! Relc, you’re already in trouble. Stop causing trouble or I’ll order Klbkch to punch you again. We’ve taken enough of Klbkch’s time—we’ll see you at Wishdrinks.”

Her comments were greeted by laughter, and everyone began to get back to work. But they stopped to pat Klbkch on the shoulder or shake his hand. Since he had four, it was quick. And they smiled, and Klbkch was soon walking through the streets of Liscor.

Senior Guardsman Klbkch. His new badge shone, and of all the Antinium, he was the one whom people greeted. The one they knew. Some still hated him.

“Guildmistress Tekshia. Good evening.”

An older Drake grunted and ignored him. Klbkch walked through the crowd of faces, alone. Unique. Lost.

He was never alone. His Queen was always there. He was no longer unique. His body was a Worker’s.

He knew his purpose, to restore his people. But his Hive was filled with silent Workers and Soldiers. Not one spoke to him. Only Aberrations spoke, to scream.

Kblkch stood among them as he descended from Liscor’s streets into the subterranean lair. He stood in a passageway where a hundred Workers and Soldiers passed him every second. His hand tightened around his new badge, and he realized he’d forgotten to put it with his gear. He held it and screamed in the darkness of his Hive.

“Do something. Say something—where are your souls? You mindless, fake Antinium!”

His Hive stopped. Every Worker and Soldier stared at him, and he sensed their fear and saw a thousand heads turn and bodies shrink back, limbs draw inwards. A thousand Antinium who lived and died for the Hive, and not a single one worthy of a detail or name.

Klbkch turned away. He walked to his quarters to rest. To rest and put the badge down and stare at it, the first gift he had ever accepted. He sat there for a long time until the Queen asked why a disturbance had occurred. Then he apologized and got back to work.

He wanted to visit the inn. He was tired. He wished he could tell Erin more, but she was a lost girl from another world. She didn’t know who he was, and perhaps if she did, she would fear him rightly.

“How much longer?”

He didn’t know. Klbkch sat there, just for a while longer. Head bowed, no longer hoping for the day he and his Queen had labored so long for. He wondered what kind of party they’d have at Wishdrinks. He held the little badge in his hand, and he was so tired and lost that he could not feel it.

The day, at last, that his Hive began to change.





1.29


They were called Workers.

It was more than a name. It was their purpose, their role in life. In the Hive. Worker.

That job included many things. They were hammers to build new tunnels and structures for the Drakes and Gnolls in the city. A butcher to separate meat from bone, or a sweeper to remove dust from the street.

Any task, no matter how menial, was their job. Not for pay or for gratitude from Liscor’s people. For the Hive. For the Queen.

That was their purpose. That was…everything. Aside from Aberrations, who were insane, Workers fought monsters if they had to, worked, and died.

But when Klbkch brought back the twelve Workers, they were not the same as the ones who had left. They marched into the Hive, and he left them without a word. Klbkch was different.

Yet the Workers who went to sit in the mess hall were changed. The Workers ate in silence—hundreds. But every single one stared at the new Workers, because instead of eating the brown, brackish paste that had little bones in it that crunched—these Workers sat together.

Together, at the long tables made of dirt. Every Worker sat shoulder-to-shoulder, packed in, their identical shells and bodies—save for where one had scars, a missing arm, a chunk taken out of their carapace—in a row as they ate.

Yet those twelve Workers who had gone above were sitting together somehow. Leaning over a table, practically ignoring their food. They were…moving something around.

A possession? Workers had no possessions. They had tools they sometimes carried because it was more expedient not to put them down, but they had nothing.

Yet these Workers sat there, and the other Workers, in the dead silence of the barracks filled only with the scraping and clacking of mandibles as they ate, nevertheless heard something.

It was the twelve, pouring over a little piece of paper and pieces of smaller paper. Thinking, perfectly replicating a game they had seen. Playing a game.

Chess.

They were thinking so loud that the other Workers could practically hear them. Workers didn’t think. They just—worked. But these Workers were concentrating.

How do I move this piece? Rook goes straight. Bishop goes diagonal. Play, fun. Play.

Fun.

Fun? The other Workers who were eating their food had a fifteen minute interval to consume their required nutrition. Then they would go to the barracks and sit in a dirt cubbyhole and sleep. But while the Workers lined up to put the cheap, wooden bowls in a receptacle for them to be filled up again, they slowed.

A line formed around the table where the twelve Workers, oblivious to all, played. Slowly, taking each step as if weighed down by boulders, Workers coincidentally just happened to peek at the board and the concentrating Workers, who had paired off, six by six, to play.

Only when one of the Workers looked up and started did they notice nearly a hundred Workers staring at them. All the Workers instantly rushed over to put their bowls away.

Time to sleep!

The twelve Workers got up instantly and hurriedly pushed their food bowls into the receptacle. Most weren’t even touched; they’d eaten food in the inn.

Flies! The other Workers who marched with them listened to these loud…thoughts. Flies? They imagined the crunch, and the twelve Workers had played a game of chess. With an [Innkeeper] who gave them ‘blue fruit juice.’

What did all this mean? The Workers filed into the barracks and began to sit for their nine hours of rest. That was all the rest they got before they spent an entire day working…but the twelve Workers hesitated as they sat together.

Slowly, one of them shuffled a bit of paper in the dead silence of the other Workers settling into their dirt cubbyholes. They were packed next to each other, thin walls of dirt separating them into alcoves that were barely more than rounded divorts where a Worker could ‘sit’ and sleep. Their rounded back shells prevented them from lying down like other species.

Shuffle, shuffle. The Worker was shuffling the papers around. Then it slowly put the chessboard down and lined up the pieces.

Black and white. Erin had colored in the black pieces, and the Worker arranged them neatly. The game had rules. All the other Workers, who were definitely asleep because what else would they be doing, didn’t at all listen to the faint sound in the huge barracks.

Or listen to the rules, which made such sense. Workers liked things like rules, and this was a game made of rules. Each pawn moved forwards but attacked left or right. Or it could take another pawn if it moved diagonally behind them which was called en passant.

There were many rules like that. You protected the king, and you played like…

The Worker pushed a pawn forwards on the white side, then after careful thought, moved another pawn forwards to oppose it. It stared at the board and moved a white pawn forwards in the center four squares, flanking the first.

Now, at this juncture, the black side could take the white pawn diagonal from it. But what if you put another black pawn so that you had four pawns, two black, two white, facing each other?

Was this good playing? Why didn’t you take the white pawn instead of making an opening? Not that the other Workers were paying attention. Or that all of them were united in thought.

After all, if you were really thinking about it, when you moved that pawn up, why didn’t you use the bishop? Could you win a game on pawns alone with their low movement range? Hey, couldn’t you move a knight diagonally outwards and protect your pieces with pawns and never risk your king?

Aha, but then there were ways to checkmate someone without ever touching the pawns. The [Innkeeper] had shown the twelve Workers all kinds of ways to play, and this game had so many pieces and moves that the combinations of outcomes were virtually endless. Especially with an unpredictable opponent on the other side.

…Not that this was fascinating. In fact, wasn’t this—Aberration?

All the Workers froze at this. Aberrations were not to be suffered alive. But the twelve Workers weren’t killing them or screaming. The Queen had said nothing—and Klbkch had not killed them. He killed Aberrations.

So was this Aberration or not? And why was that Worker just lining up pawn pieces in the middle of the board? Move the queen! Move the—



——



It was a long night in which no Worker moved, save for the one who shuffled bits of paper around. The next day, Workers were sluggish owing to something in the food, no doubt.

But at breakfast, while the twelve sat and put out the chessboards, something odd happened. A Worker sat across from one of the chess boards being set up and moved a white piece.

This was not one of the twelve. All the Workers froze—until the one who had been playing last night moved a black pawn up, facing the white pawn.

A second white pawn joined the first, in the center of the board. Every Worker in the room stared as the second black pawn joined it. The Worker, who had a butcher’s knife because that was his job in the city, stared at the board.

He took the first black pawn with his own. And then? The two began to play.

There weren’t enough chess boards for the twelve workers; they only had five boards and piece sets from the [Innkeeper]. So sticks and stones were carefully found and placed, and then there were twenty-four Workers. You could, after all, just remember which piece was which.

Twelve Workers played the twelve who had journeyed to the inn. All twelve newcomers lost the first game completely.

They stood up and began to walk off, feeling a vague sense of frustration—but accomplishment. Death might come tomorrow, but they had played a game of chess.

And lost. The Workers were walking to put their dishes away when one of the original twelve Workers beckoned them back. The twelve new Workers saw, to their befuddlement, the original twelve slowly trading seats, rotating one over. Then they sat back down, reset the board, and waited.

The new twelve came back to the table, slowly, and sat down. They played again. Lost again. Then the Workers shuffled places and began to play.

In silence, the other Workers in the mess hall stared at the games. Twenty-four Workers played together. On the fifth game, the Worker with the butcher’s knife glanced up as one of the watching Antinium carefully moved forwards. He stood up to let the new Worker sit—but the trembling newcomer grabbed his butcher’s knife instead.

The trembling Worker stared at the knife as all the other Antinium in the mess hall froze. It raised the knife, stabbed itself in the arm, and green blood ran. Then it opened its mandibles.

“noOOOooo. NOOOooooooO—”

It screamed one word and then began to shriek. The Worker with the butcher’s job backed away.

The individual-who-was-no-longer-a-Worker raised the knife and began to stab others. He stabbed and stabbed as Workers fled and the chess boards were abandoned, and then turned. He shrieked, and the other Workers fled, trying to shield the remaining twenty-three Workers who’d played chess.

Aberration. Aberration! The call went through the Hive, and even the Queen heard it. She called for Klbkch.

Before the Prognugator arrived, six more Workers were killed and their parts used to decorate the tables. He walked into the mess hall and a screaming Worker covered in green blood ran at him.

“wE! WE! a gAMe!”

It screamed at him, waving the knife. Lunging at him. Klbkch the Prognugator reached down to the twin swords hanging at his belt. He drew them and swung one blade once. Then he bent, carefully thrust the second blade down, and pulled it sideways.

He wiped the silver blades clean and stood. Klbkch stared blankly at the odd, bloody bits of paper on the table and looked around at the Workers huddled at the far end of the room.

“Clean up the bodies. Get back to work.”

Then he turned and walked away. The Workers stood there, looking at the dead Aberration. Their fellow Workers, dead.

All the same. All the same as it ever was. They picked up the bodies for processing, and a Worker picked up the knife to replace the dead butcher. But as they cleaned up and got back to work, the chess boards stayed. Another Worker joined the twenty-three.

By lunch, they had become forty-eight. By dinner? 192.



——



Erin Solstice had taught the Workers how to play games of speed chess. Lightning rules, she called it, where you had a limited amount of time per move.

It was ideal for short moments, like between digging in the tunnels or at a mess hall. Workers picked up stones and sticks and played. Nevermind that you had a ‘board’ of four sticks and a bunch of identical stones.

After all, if you remembered which stones were pawns, rooks, and which were white and black, why did you need a board with shapes? There was nothing else to do. They remembered.

That night, the games of chess continued. Not all Workers took part. It was decided that only a quarter should play this new game in case of further Aberrations occurring.

Decided by who? Not Klbkch. Not the Queen. Neither one had paid attention to the boards. They surely knew because they were the Queen and Klbkch…the Workers just decided it.

The Chosen Workers were the original twelve. But now there were 1532—four had died this day due to a monster attack—in the Hive. Not all were in the same mess hall, but they counted.

Counted who won and lost. Of course, only a few won all the time, and the Chosen Workers were the best players by far. Initially.

However, it seemed clear that the [Innkeeper] had been better than all of them. And this game…this game was fascinating. But perhaps there were strategies, means that the Workers could not fathom?

That night, the Workers sitting in the barracks across the Hive played games. They played and played—and one would get up and slowly, carefully, move to another barracks. Then either return or go to a new barracks. The Workers counted and counted and played.

Therefore, the next day, when the Designated Worker stood, he was tired. He was not one of the Chosen Workers, the twelve, but he was definitively, by numbers, the best for the job.

He was afraid when he went to Klbkch’s office. The Prognugator was almost never disturbed; he was getting ready for his work as a Senior Guardsman. Yet the Designated Worker had to go.

He was the best player—his win/loss ratio was 54.6%, and thus he had been chosen to make the request. There was simply no other alternative.

Klbkch was not on duty at this time of day. He had retreated to his personal quarters within the labyrinthine tunnels, a hollowed-out room of stone and dirt near to the surface. He looked up at the knock on his door. When he saw it was a Worker, he immediately drew his sword.

“State your business immediately or be cut down. Why has the Queen not alerted me?”

The Worker froze. One of those two perfect blades was poised to stab, but he bowed his head towards Klbkch.

“This one would request time off, Prognugator.”

Klbkch hesitated. He did not lower his sword. That was not the voice of the screaming Aberration of yesterday.

“…Why?”

His arm tensed, but the Worker’s reply stopped Klbkch again.

“This one wishes to visit the Innkeeper Solstice.”

Now, Klbkch stood up. Hesitated, then strode towards the Designated Worker and held his blade low, towards the other Antinium’s abdomen. Yet he stopped himself from running the other Worker through. Something was in his voice. A kind of…surprise, wariness beyond belief.

And perhaps something like anticipation. Hope.

“For what purpose do you wish to visit Erin Solstice?”

“This one would play a game of chess.”

“Chess?”

Neither Antinium blinked. They were incapable of doing so, but Klbkch’s antennae twitched.

“Explain yourself.”

The Designated Worker spoke as precisely as it could.

“This one would learn more of chess for the sake of imparting knowledge onto other Workers. The Workers perceive a limitation in growth after a collective 15,360 games played.”

Klbkch paused as he digested this information. He looked the Worker up and down, and the blade, slowly, slowly withdrew from the Worker’s abdomen.

“I see. Your request will be considered. Return to your duties. Now.”

The Designated Worker bowed his head and left. Klbkch sheathed his sword, stared at the door, and then banged his head with one of his hands. Then he strode off to make an urgent report to his Queen.

Within the hour, he had left the city with the Designated Worker in tow.



——



After two days of experimentation, Erin had to face the facts.

“…I still can’t figure out how to make ice cream.”

All she could make was weird, sugary butter. She stared down at the pan of churned cream and ice cubes and wondered whether it was still edible.

She’d bought the ice and everything from Krshia, and she kept rushing back to her inn in hopes of making it work—but something was wrong, and the resultant mess was nothing like ice cream. Maybe she had missed an ingredient? Her Skill wasn’t telling her what she was doing wrong. Erin stuck a finger in the bowl and tasted it.

“Hm. Sugary.”

Erin licked her finger and decided it would go well with cereal. If she had any cereal. Well, there was that porridge-stuff, but she didn’t like how much chewing she had to do.

“Maybe I’ll feed it to Pisces.”

Glumly, Erin poured her fifth failed experiment into a glass jar. Glass jars were the way to go. Since she didn’t have tupperware and most airtight containers were jars with lids on them, glass jars with corked or glass lids were her best way of keeping things fresh.

“Too bad I don’t have any preservation runes.”

Erin grumbled to herself as she heaved the jar of milk onto a counter. She’d asked Pisces how much it would cost to get fancy runes done. He’d put the price at anywhere from twenty to sixty gold coins and added that she’d need to replace her cabinets if she wanted to make sure the runes stayed intact.

“Too rich for my blood. But refrigerators cost a lot too, right? But you only buy one, and that’s that. So I could save up if I ever got any customers. Big crowd one day, radio silence the next. And today as well. That’s life, isn’t it?”

Erin’s head snapped up as she heard the door opening.

“Speak of the devil.”

She raised her voice.

“Have a seat! I’ll be with you in a moment!”

Erin looked around and cursed. She didn’t have any food ready. It was only lunchtime—she hadn’t expected anyone to actually come by except Pisces, and he could wait forever. But he would have already made a snide remark by now.

No helping it. She hurried out of the kitchen and spotted a short creature standing in the inn. It had familiar green skin, pointy ears, and red eyes. Erin started to smile and then stopped.

“Wait a second. Who the hell are you?”



——



The four Goblins watched from the cover of a patch of long grass as the door shut. They watched and saw the other Goblins surrounding the inn. One had already entered, and the other Goblins were waiting to enter behind him.

The hiding Goblins weren’t waiting to enter. Rather, they were watching with dull dread in their stomachs. They would have liked to do something. Shouted, perhaps. But that wasn’t in their natures, and they were afraid.

They had been nine, but now they were four. And they feared making sound and alerting the other Goblins around the inn to their presence. They were forbidden to be here. They had been nine, and now they were four. And they feared becoming zero.

The littlest Goblin lay there, barely able to move. The other three were holding her down. They watched helplessly. The one Erin called Rags gripped a dagger in her hands, but she felt the bruises and cracked bones from the beating she’d taken just last night. She could only watch. They were four. The tribe had made a decision, and they hadn’t listened. The Chieftain was dead. The four Goblins were all bloody and filthy, and there were four of them.

The Goblins surrounding the inn were forty.



——



“Uh, hi there.”

Erin stared at the large Goblin as it glanced around her inn. She was sure she’d never seen this particular Goblin before in her life. He was larger than the rest, taller, brawnier. Not like the big one, but a head taller than any of the other small ones. Some kind of in-between?

And he was carrying a short sword at his waist, not a dagger or a club.

The Goblin looked up at Erin. He was still shorter than her by a good head, but he didn’t seem intimidated by her height. On the contrary, he seemed like he wanted to be the one doing the intimidating.

“Look, can I help you? Do you want food or something?”

Normally, Erin would have offered him a plate of something at once. But this particular Goblin wasn’t like Rags or her timid friends. There was an aggression about him she recognized. It reminded her of guys from her world. Something about the look, the way he stood there—too tense. Staring at her. It made her back crawl, and she realized her knife was in the kitchen.

The Goblin glanced at Erin and said something. He sauntered up to her. She stared down at him.

“Excuse me? What do you—”

He poked her. In the stomach. Actually, it was closer to her pelvis since he was shorter and uncomfortably close to another area.

“Stop that.”

He grinned and reached out to poke her again. Erin slapped his hand down.

“Stop that. Tell me what you want or get out.”

The big Goblin’s eyes narrowed. His hand went to his short sword. Erin made a fist and showed it to him.

“Try that and I’ll kick your face in. Got it?”

He glared up at her. Then, surprisingly, he grinned. He turned his head and called something in that scratchy language over his shoulder.

Erin looked up as the door opened. A Goblin walked into the room, and then another. And then another. And another and another and…

Suddenly, there were a lot of Goblins in her inn. A lot. And suddenly, purely by coincidence, Erin had just broken out into a cold sweat.

“Well. You have…friends. Do you all want food?”

More Goblins filed into her inn. It was an unending stream of them. They surrounded the bigger Goblin, exactly like a gang of…gangsters. Or, in Erin’s mind, much like a gang of children following the bully.

Erin took one step back as the leader of the Goblin mob grinned at her. He stroked the sword at his waist. Erin thought of the knife in her kitchen but abandoned the idea instantly. Every Goblin in the inn had a weapon, and most were holding them casually in their hands.

She had a bad feeling—no, she knew she was in trouble.

The big Goblin looked around the inn and snorted. Then he spat.

A glob of greenish spit landed right on one of Erin’s clean tables. Next to a chess board. The Goblin looked at it and then walked over and picked up the pieces.

She could run. In fact, Erin was pretty sure she could outrun them. If she got to the door and slammed it shut, then she’d be able to take off. They’d never catch her with their stubby little legs.

Erin slowly edged around a table, as if she were nervous. The Goblin tribe watched her, but they clearly weren’t expecting her to attack. They knew they outnumbered her. She didn’t need to get that close to the door, but if she were just a few feet away, she could—

Tapping. Erin looked over and saw the big Goblin leader smacking one of her chess pieces hard against the stone chess board. He grinned: a bully with a new breakable toy that didn’t belong to him.

Smack, smack. He was watching Erin out of the corner of his eye as he bashed a carved figurine of a Drake knight on the board.

Erin saw bits of the fragile chess piece breaking off. Her mouth opened.

“Oi. Put that down.”

The Goblin sneered. It deliberately tossed the knight on the ground. The other Goblins watched as their leader deliberately stomped on the chess piece. It snapped in two.

Erin stared down at the small, stone figurine lying in pieces. She looked up at the grinning Goblin.



——



The four Goblins heard the faint sound of something cracking as they waited outside the inn. Then they heard silence.

The next thing they saw was the big Goblin smashing through a window. They ran for cover as Erin strode out the door with a chair in her hands.

The big Goblin snarled at Erin and struck at her as she approached. She stepped back and then belted him over the head with the chair. She lost her grip on it, but that didn’t even slow her down. As the Goblin swung at her, she delivered a punch to his face and then jumped back. Erin didn’t know how, but when he tried to rush her, she instinctively stepped sideways and knocked him flat with a kick to his back.

It was like magic. Or—a Skill. Bar fighting. That was it. Erin had never really punched someone in her life, but when she made a fist and drove it into the big Goblin’s face, it floored him.

He was trying to rip the short sword out of its scabbard. Erin kicked the blade out of his hands as he got it free and then kicked him in the face. As he shouted in pain, she picked up the chair and drove it into his midsection.

“Not so tough now, are you? Huh?”

Erin raised the chair to hit the Goblin again. She prepared to swing it down—

And something poked her in the side. Erin turned around. She saw a knife sticking out of her skin. It was buried halfway in, and the green clawed hand holding it was shaking.

“…Ow.”

A Goblin was behind her. She let go as Erin turned and backed up. Let go—but her crimson eyes were both focused on Erin and very distant. Blood ran down her claw, and Erin felt at the sharp thing in her flesh. She tried to tug at it and felt something moving in her stomach. The female Goblin reached for a second weapon—a rock—and Erin lashed out.

She punched the Goblin into the ground, but then another Goblin was next to her.

Stab.

This time, the blade was long and thin and went in further, into Erin’s thigh. It was a dull sensation. She felt her skin tearing as he raked her side with it. Erin shouted and hit him with her chair hard enough that she felt something in him break. But then another Goblin was next to her. He slashed her in the leg.

She didn’t feel it. And that was the scariest thing. As another Goblin stuck a knife in Erin’s back, she felt it go in, but she didn’t feel the pain. And the Goblins were suddenly surrounding her. They poured out of the inn as Erin tried to keep them away. And they all had knives.

Stab. Stabstabstabstabstabstabstabstabstabstabstabstabstab—

Erin swung her chair and knocked three Goblins senseless. She kicked out and sent another one flying, then punched one so hard he fell over unconscious. She didn’t know how, but she was suddenly a fighting machine. But the Goblins kept coming, and their knives went in, and she didn’t feel a thing.

Two more Goblins went down to Erin’s punches before she toppled over. It wasn’t that she’d tripped. She just fell down and saw the blood pooling. Erin wanted to reach out and touch it, but her arms wouldn’t move.

The big Goblin was standing over her. When had he gotten to his feet? He had the short sword in his hand, and he was raising it. He snarled around his broken nose. Then his head fell off.

Klbkch beheaded the large Goblin with one sweep of his swords. He stepped forward to shield Erin as his swords scythed out and cut two more Goblins apart. He addressed the other Antinium by his side, the Worker holding the pieces of paper in his hands. The trembling Worker stared down at Erin as pieces of paper fluttered to the ground.

“I must save Erin. Cover me.”

The Worker nodded and dropped its pieces of paper.

Erin looked up and tried to wave at Klbkch as the ant-man knelt swiftly beside her.

“Stay awake, Erin. I have a potion. Stay alive for a few seconds longer.”

“Another p-potion?”

Erin laughed weakly. She wanted to say ‘you shouldn’t have,’ but her mouth stopped working. Klbkch’s hands were a blur as they dove into the pouch at his waist. He uncorked the bottle and splashed half of it over Erin’s legs. The other half he made her drink. He had to hold her mouth open because she couldn’t open it.

She felt the noxious liquid go down, and something happened in her body. But Erin wasn’t paying attention. She felt like a spectator, a ghost who wasn’t really attached to the thing Klbkch was cradling in his arms. She saw the Worker fighting as the Goblins recovered from their shock. She saw him dying.

The Worker had no weapons. He only had bits of paper. But he charged into the mass of Goblins, striking them with his four hands, biting, hitting them. Like how a child fought.

The Goblins fell back at first from the ferocity of the assault. But as soon as the Worker found himself in the midst of them, they closed in.

One second the Worker was grabbing at Goblin, the next, they covered him. Countless Goblins piled onto the Worker, stabbing, hitting any part of his body they could reach. The Worker fell to the ground, but seized one Goblin by the leg. His mandibles opened, and he bit.

The Goblin screamed and stabbed him in the eye. The other Goblins stabbed and clubbed him and then left the broken, crushed shell of the Worker on the ground. They swarmed away from him except for one Goblin, which still screamed in agony as it tugged at its leg. It came away with a sickly snap as the leg and flesh ripped from the Worker’s jaws to reveal yellow bone.

Erin blew out a bubble of blood and then coughed. Something warm was flowing up from her cold legs. She could feel them again and—pain. But she could feel them.

As the Goblins spread out around the Human and Antinium, Klbkch stood up from Erin’s side. He drew both swords and daggers and faced the forty-odd Goblins. He looked down at her and then the slot on his belt.

Two empty slots for two potions. Klbkch stared around and saw no place to put his back against. He could find a wall—but Erin was lying at his feet. Forty Goblins.

He could have run, but the Senior Guardsman didn’t. He looked across from him at the dead Worker. Curled up, staring blankly at the sky.

A Worker who spoke. A Worker who had desires. A success—

Dead.

Dead. Klbkch felt his mandibles click together. He looked down at Erin. He should have left her. He should have taken the Worker back.

He should run or put his back to a wall or—the Antinium lifted the blades and looked around. His voice was a whisper.

“They call me the Slayer. Come.”

The Goblins didn’t wait. They charged, howling with blood and fury. Klbkch waited for them and attacked with all four arms at once. He drew two knives from his waist with his lower hands.

His swords cut arcs in the air as they lopped off limbs and heads while his lower arms stabbed out with his knives. The first few Goblins who approached him died before they could take a step.

But—so many. Klbkch stepped back as the Goblins kept coming. He spun left and shredded two Goblins with his swords as his lower two arms stabbed a Goblin in the neck with his daggers. One sprinted under his guard and raked his legs with a dagger, but only managed to cut into his exoskeleton. Klbkch beheaded him, but more Goblins jumped on his back. He shook himself like a dog and cut them off of him.

He could have moved, but there was something right behind him. His swords slashed out in perfect arcs—until he twisted. Threw himself into a burning vial a Goblin threw. It splashed over him, and his carapace ignited. Not a drop touched the young woman with hazel eyes. The Antinium began burning as the Goblins backed up. One raised a bow—

The twang and thud were one sound. Klbkch adjusted his leg. He glanced down at the arrow sticking out of it. Erin Solstice’s face stared blankly up at him, as if she were dreaming.

His hand flickered. The Goblin holding the bow staggered, and a knife protruded from the Goblin’s chest. She fell, gasping, as Klbkch turned. The Goblins charged him like they had the crab.



——



Erin watched through lidded eyes. The potion was coursing through her, but the drowsiness was making her sleepy. She couldn’t stay awake. It was like her mind was shutting down every few moments.

She kept blinking. Her eyes would close, and then her head would snap back up. Each time she opened her eyes, more Goblins lay in pieces around her. Blood stained the ground and her clothes. And Klbkch. But his blood was green. And there was a lot of it.

Erin opened her eyes and saw Klbkch stagger as a Goblin stabbed him in the back with the short sword. The Antinium turned and beheaded the Goblin, but two more struck him glancing blows from his other side. Even as he turned, more lunged forward. He swept his blades to keep them away, but he couldn’t guard every angle.

Why didn’t he run? He was surrounded. If he had his back to the wall, he could fend them off.

Oh. Right. He was defending her. And that meant he couldn’t watch his back.

Erin’s head lowered. The darkness closed in. Then she opened her eyes and saw Klbkch lying on the ground. No—not lying. Fallen. He was on his knees. He still had his blades, but he couldn’t stand up. Green blood dripped from the wounds on his body. So many.

But he’d taken vengeance for his injuries. Erin looked around and saw dead bodies everywhere. Pieces of Goblins. Heads. Limbs. Blood coated everything, including her.

Nine Goblins spread out around Klbkch in a wary circle. They didn’t dare approach the Antinium, even on his knees. Erin wondered what they were doing. Oh. They were waiting for him to die.

“Miss Solstice.”

It was a rasping whisper. Erin looked at Klbkch. The Antinium didn’t move, but spoke to the ground as he used one sword to keep himself upright.

“You must flee. I will buy you a moment.”

She stared at him.

“No.”

“Can you not move?”

“I can feel my legs. Sort of.”

“Then go. Once you are in sight of the city, you will be safe.”

“No.”

He clicked his mandibles together.

“I cannot slay the rest. Nine Goblins are too many—I am a failure. Forty Goblins. Forty Goblins—”

He made a fluttering sound. Erin thought it sounded like an insect’s chirping. She realized it was—laughter. Klbkch whispered.

“If they could see me. Run.”

“No.”

Erin said it automatically. Her brain still wasn’t working.

“No. There aren’t nine. There are thirteen.”

Klbkch looked up. He saw the four Goblins as they swarmed up the hill from behind the others. The other Goblins hesitated, afraid to turn away from Klbkch, and in that moment, the small band of Goblins struck them from behind.

The four Goblins worked together. Two grabbed one Goblin and held him down, and Rags stabbed him in the face while the fourth kept the other eight at bay. He was armed with a large stick and covered his friends from the enemy Goblins. They would have rushed him, but Klbkch was on their other side and shifted whenever they moved.

Rags and the other three Goblins moved from the dead Goblin to flank the other Goblins. They feinted as Klbkch guarded Erin, and the other Goblins turned their attention to them. In an instant, Klbkch threw one of his swords and speared a Goblin through the chest.

As the seven remaining enemy Goblins turned their attention to Klbkch, Rags and the three Goblins rushed forwards and repeatedly stabbed another Goblin in the back. They fled backwards even as the other Goblins sliced at them.

Tactics. They fought their kin, and Erin saw the little one, face mashed and bruised, screeching what sounded like orders. Crimson eyes and red blood blurred together.

Were the Goblins crying? She couldn’t tell. Which ones were weeping? All of them?

The seven Goblins backed up. This wasn’t supposed to be happening. They had come to kill a lone Human, however dangerous she might be, not fight deadly insect-monsters and their own kind.

They edged away from the wounded Antinium. It was clear that he couldn’t move, and wounded as they were, they still outnumbered Rags and her friends. Rags and her comrades retreated until they had the inn at their backs. But it was still two-to-one.

The Goblin that had picked up the short sword pointed at Rags and screeched a command. The seven Goblins turned away. And one of them collapsed with a knife in the back of his head.

Erin blinked down at her hand. She’d picked it up and thrown it without thinking. And it had hit its target. The Goblins turned in shock and looked at Erin.

She stood up and hit the closest Goblin with an uppercut that snapped his head backwards. Her legs felt like jelly. But they were whole. She kicked, and another Goblin flew and smashed into a wall.

Two more would have rushed her, but this time, Klbkch threw. He missed with his daggers, but his sword hit one of the Goblins vertically and lodged in his head. He fell down, and Erin hit the other Goblin and knocked him down.

She turned for the other three, but they were already dead. Two Goblins held the last one down as he screamed while Rags stabbed him repeatedly in the chest. He convulsed and died.

Erin breathed out shakily. She lowered her fists. She didn’t even notice the two Goblins she’d hit getting to their feet and running. Rags and her Goblins raced after them, screaming their high-pitched war cry.

Slowly, Erin looked around. The Goblins were dead. Their blood covered everything. Her breathing was ragged; she felt like there wasn’t enough air in the world. The world grew dark, and she staggered. She would have sat down and passed out, but then something moved.

Klbkch. He collapsed in a pool of green ichor that mixed with the red around him. Suddenly, Erin’s body was full of electricity and panic. She ran over to him. He was trying to get up, but his exoskeleton was full of holes. He was leaking.

“Oh god. Oh god no.”

Klbkch clicked at her. He spoke, still in that too-calm tone of his. But his head was jerking, trying to look at her, and it kept falling back. Spasming, as if he were—falling asleep.

“Erin Solstice. You are safe? Good. My Queen will send—her Soldiers will come. You will be safe.”

He tried to reach for her. Erin grabbed his hand and then released it. She helplessly held her hands over the oozing gaps in his body, but his blood ran over her fingers. Klbkch touched at her hair and let his hand fall away.

“Fascinating. So this—First Queen laugh—in pieces. Today of all days.”

His voice was breaking up. Thoughts blending with words. Erin grasped at the green blood oozing from his body.

“I can’t—how do I stop the bleeding?”

He didn’t answer her. Klbkch only sighed. He stared up at the sky. His silver blades lay next to him, coated with blood. His voice faded away. Amused, disappointed in himself, and so bitterly tired. He looked only once at the dead Worker, and then his mandibles twitched.

He turned his head north, as if staring a thousand miles at something he had left behind. At last, his voice broke, and he called out as the young woman held his hand. She didn’t know who he was speaking to.

“I was weary. Forgive me.”

Klbkch looked as if he wanted to say something else. But then his head lowered. He fell silent and still. Erin couldn’t tell if he was breathing. She put her hand next to his mandibles, but she could feel nothing. No breath of air. Nothing.

She stared down at Klbkch. He was bleeding. She had to stop it. She had to heal him. But he’d used her potion.

She needed help. She needed Relc or Pisces.

“Someone!”

Erin looked around and shouted. But there were only the dead Goblins.

“Help. Help me.”

Erin whispered. She looked at Klbkch. He wasn’t moving. He’d curled up into a ball. He was still bleeding.

She had to get help. She had to.

Erin shook. She didn’t know what to do. But she had to—she had to—

Erin slapped herself. She hit herself so hard in the face that the world turned black for a moment. But she’d stopped shaking. She grabbed Klbkch and hauled him up.

Fireman’s carry. She’d learned how to do that in class. It didn’t work the same way with Klbkch because he was bulkier in places. Still, she got him onto her shoulders. He was light. Was it the lost blood?

Run. Erin was already running. She dashed down the hill with Klbkch on her back. Blood ran down her shoulders and soaked her clothing. Blood. She couldn’t feel anything from the burden she carried on her back. No heartbeat, no breathing. Only blood.

Erin ran and ran. Her heart was bursting out of her lungs, and each breath was fire. She felt the muscles tearing in her legs. But she ran on. And she felt the blood as it slowly dripped down her body and onto the grass.



——



Below Liscor, the Queen of the Antinium stirred. She looked up through dirt and bedrock. She knew. Already, her Soldiers marched towards the surface at her command. They emerged from hiding places, tunnels, and the Watch and the citizens screamed of The Black Tide.

The doom of Rhir. But they were too late.

Too late, and she had been resting. She felt it. The Free Queen reached up, feelers trying to hold—her voice breaking with disbelief. Pain.

“Klbkchhezeim?”





1.30


Silence. Erin walked in it. It was the numbing static in her head. It was the sound of tears falling in her heart. It was everything.

She walked in the darkness. Short, narrow walls of dirt enclosed her. She followed a massive shape as it led her through the tunnels.

Her arms were breaking, her lungs screaming as she carried Klbkch, almost falling, towards the gates, and a horn began to blare.

Noise. Erin still heard it echoing in her memories. They were scattered. She still felt like she was there, blood running sticky down her legs. Not hers. Seeing Liscor’s gates rising as Drakes and Gnolls ran at her, shouting.



“Klbkch? Summon the Captain! Get a [Healer], now!”

“—Not breathing. Contact his Hive! Get the Human out of the way!”

“Klb? Buddy? Speak to me.”



Voices. Them grabbing her, almost throwing her aside but taking him as carefully as a baby. He was cold. Curled up. His skin—his chitin was cold, and she felt nothing.

—Bending down, throwing glowing liquid on him. Relc slapping a still face until someone knocked him down. A bright, blue badge covered in green blood. Running feet, a Drake shouting orders until a thousand Antinium, giants, were forcing their way through the crowd. And grabbing Klbkch. And her.

Taking her down into a place no one could follow. Through walls of dirt and staring faces, each one like Klbkch’s. Workers. And Soldiers. Until she came here.

To a chamber where a giant sat. Made of the same brown-black chitin as the others but incomparably vast. A feeler, not a hand, shivered in the darkness, and a voice deep, resonant, and female—spoke.

Then Erin woke from her dream.

“—Human. What have you done?”

Erin looked up. She was standing in a massive cavernous room. Across from her, something sat in the shadows. The Queen of the Antinium under Liscor.

The gargantuan figure moved. Erin couldn’t see. It was so dark. But she caught a glimpse of a massive, bloated body and bulbous backside. The massive Queen of the Antinium was so huge she couldn’t move from her spot.

The Queen raised one massive foreleg. She wasn’t like her subjects, who looked vaguely humanoid. The Queen was completely insectile, and her wide, faceted eyes had no pupils nor color to them. They were blank, foreign, unreadable—yet hostile, a dull glow reflecting off the smooth surfaces under the dim light as they focused on the human before her. Erin could not read her face, but she saw the pain and anger. Even in this creature, in her voice.

She waited, but Erin said nothing. So the Queen continued.

“Your name is Erin Solstice. I have summoned you to explain the death of my subject to me. My…Klbkchhezeim. My Prognugator. Klbkch of the Centenium. Do you know what you have done?”

Erin looked at the Queen. She didn’t know what to say. Her chest was hurting, but her heart was already broken. They’d taken his body away. She felt like she was still dying. She couldn’t feel the pain, it was so great.

The Queen gestured behind Erin. She pointed to the two silent giants flanking the doors.

“Do not fear my Soldiers. They will cause you no harm if you answer.”

Erin glanced over her shoulder. She’d been grabbed in the midst of the confusion. A group of giant Antinium had swept her out of the guard barracks against her will and the protests of the other guards. Now, they silently watched her.

The two guards that stood in the back of the massive chamber were far taller than the Workers. A head higher and thicker and stronger by far. Unlike Klbkch or the Workers, these Antinium were nearly twice their size, with massive forearms and spiked, sharp gauntlets formed of their exoskeleton.

What was strangest and scariest about them was that they held no weapons. Instead, their four arms were bent, and they appeared to be ready at any moment to leap on Erin. Their hands—Erin saw their hands had no real digits, just awkward stumps and tearing barbs. These Antinium were clearly soldiers, built for war.

These ones had been made to kill.

“Erin Solstice. I hold you accountable for the death of Klbkchhezeim. Speak.”

Erin looked back at the Queen. She opened her mouth and didn’t know what to say. There was nothing. The silence in her was too large for words.

But she had to speak.

“I’m sorry. I never meant for it to happen.”

The Queen loomed above her. Her deep voice deepened further.

“Is that all you have to say?”

Erin shook her head.

“I don’t—I can’t say sorry enough. Klbkch—he died protecting me. He was a hero. I’m so sorry.”

The Queen silently watched as Erin wiped at her eyes. She raised a single feeler.

“Human. You misunderstand me. Klbkchhezeim’s death is…is. He is Antinium. Workers and Soldiers die, and if Liscor did not cause this, there is no need for war. But his death was wasted—needless. I am told he perished fighting Goblins. Goblins. Saving you. That is what I find unacceptable.”

“…What?”

Erin looked up, and the Free Queen stared down at her. Her voice was confused, Erin realized. Confused and angry and hurt.

“Klbkchhezeim was more than a match for a hundred Goblins. A hundred Hobgoblins could not ambush him. He is Klbkch of the Centenium. He—was—Klbkch the Slayer. The only reason he could have fallen to a mere forty Goblins was because he placed your life above his. And he lost a Worker of—the first Worker in—”

Her voice was rising, her feelers waving. The Queen fell silent. Her trembling voice returned to normal, and she spoke slowly in the darkness.

“He has paid for his folly. But his foolishness has cost the Antinium living within the city greatly.”

Erin stared at the Queen in shock. In turn, she felt the giant Antinium’s eyes piercing her to the core.

“I am disappointed, Erin Solstice. I had expected better of my Prognugator’s judgment. He spoke highly of you. Klbkch called you a Human worthy of emulation. But I see nothing to back up his claims. I see no reason why he would have wasted his life saving you.”

What? Erin’s head felt fuzzy. What was she saying?

The Queen continued. It was hard to discern emotion in her monotone rumble, but there was a definite element of irritation in her voice.

“My Workers play games in their resting periods. They gain useless levels in classes not needed for their work. Three have already become Aberration. This experiment has created naught but waste. My Prognugator’s judgment has been in error.”

Erin struggled for words.

“He—he was only doing what I asked him to. He was helping. He saved my life.”

She felt the titanic gaze on her. Erin had to look down. She couldn’t meet the Queen’s eyes.

“Nevertheless. Klbkch died a failure.”

Erin’s head rose. She stared at the Queen.

“Take that back.”

The Queen’s presence beat down on Erin, but this time, she refused to look away.

“I will not. My Prognugator’s foolishness has cost Liscor and the Antinium this day. He died a failure.”

“He was a hero!”

Erin shouted at the Queen. The guards behind her stirred, but the Queen raised one foreleg.

“He died worthless, against enemies he should easily have overcome. He died a failure.”

“No. He was tired. Tired and sorry.”

Erin mumbled the words. The Queen stared down at Erin. Her body had begun rising, and her feelers had risen—like a hammer, over Erin’s head. Now they trembled, in some paroxysm Erin didn’t understand. Her voice shook.

“Klbkchhezeim said that?”

Erin didn’t know why the Queen froze. She only bowed her head in silence. The Free Queen’s voice was strangled, and her mandibles clicked until she spoke.

“Then he is a fool as well as failure. We were so close. He had no right to lose hope.”

Erin stared up at the Queen. The massive insect regarded her and then looked away. She flicked one foreleg at her.

“You do not understand. You, the creatures of the above world, fail to understand all of what is Antinium. Enough. I waste valuable time. You are not worth killing.”

Erin was shaking. The two Antinium Soldiers marched up to her, but she stepped forwards towards the Queen.

“Why’d you summon me then? To tell me how worthless Klbkch was? He wasn’t. You’re wrong.”

The Soldiers seized her roughly. The Queen gestured, and they released her.

“You are not what we seek. You cannot understand. Klbkch must have been mistaken. I see nothing to admire. Only his failure written large. Begone from this place, Erin Solstice. I have much to do.”

The Queen slowly turned away towards the far wall. Erin was dragged out of the cavern by the two Soldiers. She wanted to say something, anything to the Queen of the Antinium. But she could think of nothing.



——



Erin walked out of the entrance to the Antinium tunnels and back into the light of the day. She blinked, shading her eyes. The two Antinium Soldiers turned and left without a word. She was alone.

For a moment. Even as Erin looked around, another Drake walked up to her. He was the yellow gatekeeper Drake.

“Human. You’re wanted by the Captain. Follow me.”

Erin walked after him without a word of protest. As she walked down the street, she was conscious of people watching her as she passed by. Some murmured and pointed. Others flinched away.

She realized she was still covered in blood. Hers, the Goblins’, and Klbkch’s.

The yellow Drake stopped when he realized Erin wasn’t following him. He turned and opened his mouth angrily until he saw her throwing up. Silently, he passed her a water bottle and cloth. Erin wiped her face and rinsed her mouth. She walked on.



——



The guard barracks were full of quiet voices and one loud one. They all fell silent when Erin entered. She looked around and saw a blur pushing his way through the crowd of guardsmen.

Two Drakes tried to grab Relc, but he shoved them aside like they were made of paper. More grabbed him as Relc loomed over Erin.

“You.”

She looked up at him. Relc snarled at her. His tail was thrashing around, and his fists were clenched at his side.

“I’m sorry.”

“Sorry? Sorry? Klbkch died protecting you! All because you didn’t want to kill those damn Goblins!”

“I know.”

“This is all your fault.”

“I know.”

Erin stared at the ground. Relc stepped forward, and the other guardsmen all tensed. But he didn’t attack. Instead, he took a deep breath and spoke with a trembling voice.

“I had a good partner. He was a silent guy and a real idiot, but he was one of the best guys I knew. And then he died because he went and tried to protect a damn Human. We never even—Wishdrinks. It was just two days ago we gave him a badge!”

She didn’t know what he meant. Erin squeezed her eyes shut as a bit of spit struck her. She looked up and opened her eyes and saw his sharp teeth opening and closing as he spat at her.

“I’m sorry.”

Relc narrowed his eyes as he stared down at Erin. He tensed—and a huge Gnoll and a Drake with a sword grabbed him.

“Relc—”

He tried to shrug them off, but they refused to let go. The Drake was breathing heavily. He raised an arm, and both of the others had it in their grips, but all he did was point a claw at her.

“I…I don’t want to see you around here again. And if you come running here for help again, I’ll stab you in the gut. Got it?”

Erin looked up at Relc. His thrashing tail stopped dead as he saw her wipe away the tears in her eyes.

“Yeah. You do that.”

She walked over to a seat and sat down. Tears began flowing from her eyes once more. Relc hesitated. He turned away and kicked a chair. It exploded in a shower of splinters.

Erin barely noticed as the pieces of wood rained down around her. She covered her face with her hands, but the tears leaked through her fingers. She heard a door open and a loud, female voice.

“You! Human!”

Erin barely moved. The other Guardsmen moved aside as a female Drake advanced. She marched up to Erin. She glared down and snapped.

“Thanks to you, the only Antinium Guardsman in the city is dead. The fourth highest-level [Guardsman]. A Senior Guardsman—the liaison to the Free Hive…”

She stopped, looking for words. Her mouth was…smoking. Trails of dark smoke leaked around her lips, and Erin stared at them despite herself. The Watch Captain looked around, and she spoke one word.

“Klbkch. He’s dead.”

All the Watch looked up in silence. The Drake stared blankly around, then looked at Erin.

“Not only that, he died because he wasted his emergency healing potion on you. Saving you from Goblins that should have been wiped out.”

Relc hammered a fist into a wall and left a dent. Erin didn’t look up, even with the crack of wood.

“Who are you?”

The Drake narrowed her eyes.

“I’m the Captain of the Liscorian Watch. Klbkch was one of my best Senior Guardsmen. Without him, there’s no one to control the Antinium. Without him—if the Queen orders it, Liscor and all of Izril might face another Antinium War. One of their Prognugators is dead. We can only pray they understand it was monsters, not us.”

A moan ran through the Watch House. Erin didn’t know what to say. She looked up, and her eyes were blurry. She knew it was all bad. It sounded bad. But Klbkch?

Klbkch was lying there. Her tears were only for him. She couldn’t take any of the rest in. Erin gulped for words.

“Okay. I’m sorry.”

The Captain’s tail twitched.

“Really? Is that all? From what I’m told, Klbkch had to protect you from a mob of Goblins. You’re no citizen. He should have let them eat you.”

“I guess so.”

Erin didn’t look up. The Captain’s eyes were narrowed in fury, and her tongue flicked out. She hissed.

“The Liscorian Watch should never have interfered in the affairs of outsiders. You don’t live in Liscor, and you are not one of our citizens. From here on out, the Watch will cease patrols in your area.”

The Captain of the Watch glared at the young woman holding her head in her hands. Erin didn’t look up.

“Is that understood, Human?”

No response. The female Drake’s eyes narrowed dangerously.

“I said, is that understood, Human?”

“You done?”

Erin looked up. Her eyes were red, but she’d stopped crying. She met the Captain’s gaze without flinching.

The female Drake stared at her. She had a scar on the left side of her face. Her scales were light blue. Her eyes were yellow and narrowed with rage. She held Erin’s gaze and then turned away in disgust.

“Get out of my city.”

The Captain slammed the door shut behind her. In the silence, Erin looked around the room at the other guardsmen.

“Klbkch died protecting me. He was a hero. He looked out for me when no one else would, and he helped me even though I’m a Human. He was a good person. I’m sorry that he’s dead.”

She looked at Relc. He looked away.

Erin wiped at her eyes and then walked out of the room.



——



Selys found Erin sitting next to Krshia’s stall in the marketplace. The Human had curled up into a ball and was hiding her head in her arms. A Gnoll, Krshia Silverfang, was standing at her stall as if waiting for another customer.

At first, it seemed like she was ignoring Erin, but then Selys saw how Krshia was staring. Staring—and not even Lism said a word, nor the hostile Drakes and Gnolls standing at a distance. She let Erin weep as Selys hesitantly approached.

“Hi? Erin? Are you—are you okay?”

“Go away.”

Erin didn’t look up. Selys hesitated and then came to stand by the stall.

“Hi, Krshia. Um, how’re you?”

The Gnoll [Shopkeeper] sniffed and nodded without smiling to Selys.

“Miss Selys. I am well, but Erin is not. She is resting here, away from unkind words. If you have any, you will leave, yes?”

Selys raised one hand as her tail twitched.

“No, not me. I just wanted to see how Erin was doing. I, uh, heard what happened.”

“Everyone in the city has heard.”

Krshia nodded. She finished arranging a display of onions.

“It is a dark time. Others mourn, but many are simply upset. The death of Klbkch, it is a bad sign for the city. He was our link to the Antinium. Without him, there will be trouble, perhaps terrible events. But it is wrong to blame it all on a single Human. So think I and other Gnolls.”

“Really. Really? That’s surprising. I, uh, thought you lot would think differently.”

Krshia shrugged. She crushed a rotten onion and tossed it in a bin of refuse behind her with more force than necessary.

“Blood and death. It is not Erin Solstice’s fault where Klbkch chose to fight and die. It is not her fault the Goblins attacked, yes? We do not blame those who are not guilty.”

“That’s good.”

Selys looked at Erin. She wasn’t moving. Tears trickled down her cheeks.

“Look, Erin, I wanted to talk to you. I know this isn’t a good time, but I don’t think you should go back to your inn. You should stay here, at least for tonight.”

Erin didn’t move. Selys glanced at Krshia. The Gnoll shrugged impassively. Selys tried again.

“I know you felt safe in the inn, but after this, things will be different. It isn’t just about Goblins. If the Watch doesn’t patrol the plains, more monsters will start appearing. Without protection or high levels, you won’t survive.”

Again, no response. But then Erin wiped her eyes on her sleeve before she buried her head back down.

“Look—I could get you a job in the Adventurer’s Guild as a receptionist. Some of the others might not like it, but you’d be safe there, and you’ll earn enough to eat and live in the city.”

This time Erin moved. She shook her head slightly.

“No.”

Selys opened her mouth, but Krshia placed a huge furry hand on her shoulder and shook her head. She squatted down next to Erin.

“Erin. I regret the loss of Klbkch. He was a strange one, one of the Antinium, the Black Tide which came from Rhir, but a good one, yes? Many in the city mourn his death. But he would not want you to die. Without the Watch suppressing the monsters—there will be worse at your door in the wilderness. Even so close to a Drake city. You must know this.”

“And it’s not like you have to stay here forever. We could look into finding you a place in a Human city if you really didn’t like it. It’s just that it’s a bad time to be here. I know it’s not your fault, but the others—”

“I’m not going.”

“Look, Erin, I know how you’re feeling but—”

“I’m not going.”

Erin stood up. Her eyes were swollen and red with tears. Her nose was dripping, and she wiped her face on her sleeve. She glared at Selys.

“I’m going back.”

“Not a good idea. Those Goblins might still be out there.”

“They’re all dead.”

“But—there’s monsters. Just stay here. I have an apartment. You can stay the night, okay?”

“No.”

“Erin, please.”

Selys wanted to say something more, but she looked over Erin’s shoulder and gasped.

“Oh my—”

Erin turned. The street had gone deathly quiet. Every shopper and shopkeeper in the marketplace was looking in the same direction. They slowly backed away as a procession of dark insects slowly walked through the market.

They weren’t Soldier Antinium. They were just Workers, but there were nearly a hundred of them as they slowly walked towards Erin. The group stopped a few feet from her as Selys stepped behind the counter and Krshia sneezed.

Erin looked around. Black-bodied Worker Antinium filled the street. They stood in front of her. Suddenly, they all bowed their heads, and the Worker in front spoke.

“These ones offer condolences to the Innkeeper Solstice.”

Selys whispered in a panicked voice to Krshia and Erin.

“What are they doing? They shouldn’t be here! Someone should call the Watch!”

Krshia nudged Selys hard.

“Silence. Listen.”

The Worker continued.

“These ones wish for the Innkeeper Solstice to heal from wounds received. These ones express their regret for her suffering.”

Erin stared at him stupidly.

“Why?”

The leading Worker appeared confused.

“It is part of custom. These ones are taught to express regret/sadness/loss for death in appropriate mourning moments. To cease work during funerals to not disturb Liscor’s citizens.”

He said this all so abstractly, as if they were rules he had to obey without knowing why. Erin just stared at him.

“But I didn’t die. What about Klbkch? What about your—friend? The other Worker? He died protecting me.”

The Worker paused and then shook his head.

“The Prognugator carried out his duties. The Worker died carrying out his duties. No mourning is necessary for broken shells and dead individuals. These ones merely express regret of individual Klbkch’s failure to protect.”

Erin stared at him.

“So you’re saying you’re sorry I got hurt?”

“These ones express regret for the failure of the Prognugator to protect the Innkeeper Solstice.”

The Worker said it so blankly, almost accusatory, that Erin’s head rose. Her hand tightened on the stall as she pulled herself up.

“It wasn’t failure. Don’t—don’t say that.”

The Worker froze—then bowed his head again. All the other Workers did likewise, and its antennae trembled.

“This one offers apologies for its mistake.”

She waited, but that was all. It glanced up at her like a child. It didn’t understand why she was mad, but it was afraid of her.

“Can’t you feel sorry? For Klbkch? And your friend?”

“This one apologizes. But this one cannot. These ones offer regret to the Innkeeper Solstice.”

Erin waited. But the Worker just kept its head bowed.

“Is that it?”

“Yes. These ones will disperse to assigned duties. Forgive these ones for disturbing the Innkeeper Solstice and others.”

As one, the Workers turned. Erin hesitated.

“Wait.”

They stopped and turned back to her. She paused and closed her eyes. Erin took a deep breath and then looked at the Worker.

“…Come to my inn. I’ll feed you, and you can play chess with me.”

“What? Erin!”

Selys grabbed for her, but Erin was moving. She reached out and touched the lead Worker on the shoulder. He went very still.

“You said you’re sorry? I’m sorry. It was my fault Klbkch and the other Worker died. And that’s a bad thing. Even if you can’t understand it, I want to do something. Let me help you. Somehow.”

The Worker hesitated.

“These ones are not permitted to leave the city or move about without permission.”

“Why not?”

“These ones are not suitable for independent action. These ones must not be unaccompanied.”

“I’ll accompany you. Just—come with me. Please? It doesn’t have to be all of you. What about just you? What’s your name?”

The Worker went deathly still. All the Workers did. Erin looked at them curiously. Selys gasped and ran forward.

“Erin!”

She grabbed the Human’s shoulder urgently. Selys whispered loudly in Erin’s ear.

“You never ask them what their names are! They don’t have any!”

“Why not?”

The Worker shuddered and looked at Erin. Selys raised one hand as her tail thrashed wildly.

“They just don’t!”

“This one has no name. This one is not important. This one is not an individual.”

“You could be.”

“Erin!”

This time, Selys tried to grab Erin and drag her away. Erin fought her hands off.

“Why? What’s wrong?”

She poked the Worker in the chest.

“You’re an individual. You’re you. And the Worker who died? He was someone. Klbkch was someone. You’re all important, and that means when one of you dies, it’s a bad thing.”

The Worker shook his head as the other Workers around him backed away. He began trembling and shaking. Erin thought she knew him. Wasn’t he part of the twelve who had come to the inn? Now—his hands shook, all four of them, a tremor as if he were suddenly freezing. It was in his voice too.

“This one is not an individual. This one cannot be.”

“You are. Can’t you understand? You’re all special.”

“Stop saying thAt.”

The [Innkeeper] froze. She heard a strange sound in the Worker’s voice. It was trembling, and Selys turned dead white under her scales.

“Tribes—Erin, back away.”

Krshia reached below the counter of her stall as the people in the street suddenly backed away. The Workers closed around the one who Erin was talking to. He was clutching at his head.

“stOp talkinG. Stop askING me—”

“Hey. Hey…don’t be upset. I’m just asking you…are you okay?”

She reached out, and he grabbed her arm. So hard her skin bruised. Cold chitin dug into her skin, and Selys made a sound as Krshia slowly pulled something up and pulled a bowstring back. But Erin just stared into the Worker’s gaze.

She was crying. Tears ran down her cheeks. They had stopped, and now they returned. The Worker gazed at her.

“Stop tHaT. Stop weeping for hiM. Stop aSKING mE—”

His fingers hurt. But Erin didn’t draw away or move as Krshia hissed at her. She just reached out and gently took hold of one of his arms.

“I’m sorry. But he was kind to me. Don’t hate him. Don’t say bad things about him. He saved me.”

“You don’t know what he was.”

The Worker whispered. He was shaking so badly now that she saw his mandibles opening and closing. Opening and closing, and a razor mouth behind them. His fingers began to dig into her skin.

“Don’t ask—this one is not Klbkch. Not individual. We are worthless. Just like the one who died there. No names. Not like him.”

It was almost pleading with her. Erin looked at the Worker, and she whispered back.

“You could be. I wish I knew that Worker’s name. I wish I’d known him. I wish I could do it all again. You don’t have to have a name. But do you want to?”

A sound like a keening scream came from the Worker’s mouth. A third hand rose from her arms and grabbed Erin’s throat. It began to tighten, and Krshia whispered a word as she swung up her bow.

Then the Worker looked into Erin’s eyes, at the blurred hazel depths filled with tears. It shook and shook until it seemed like it could shake no more and the world was falling to pieces. Its world. It let go of her suddenly and stumbled backwards.

Eight Workers had been dragging it back, but the single Worker had been locked in place so fiercely that their fingers and arms had been cracking its shell without moving the Worker. Now, they tumbled back. An arrow passed straight over the Worker’s head and thunked into Lism’s stall. The Drake stared at it. Then—at the Worker.

He lay on his shell, staring up at the sky. Erin stared down at him—and appeared in his line of sight. Someone was shouting for the Watch—but the Worker didn’t move. He didn’t scream or shriek. He just lay there.

“Are you alright?”

She stared down at him. Slowly, the Worker got up, and the other Workers pulled Erin back, making a shield between her and—

This one. The citizens of Liscor, Krshia—some had drawn blades and others were calling for the Watch, but the Worker did not shout. His trembling had ceased.

He felt at his shell and looked around. For a long time, no one said a word. He stared at Erin, and then at last, spoke. Wonderingly, confused.

“This one—I understand. This one has become I.”

Selys gasped in horror. The Worker stared down at his hands and then looked up.

“I understand sorrow. I understand regret for the death of individual Klbkch and Worker. I was wrong. It was a sad thing. For Klbkch. For the Worker. Then death is sad. Then it is all…sad.”

He looked around, and the Worker’s antennae waved. His hands shook, but without the wildness of before. He stared around as if a great weight suddenly rested on him. He looked at his kin, and they were frozen. But Erin just nodded.

“Good.”

Erin didn’t notice the other Workers backing away. The Worker that she’d addressed quivered. His hands opened and closed restlessly. Selys and the other Drakes instantly backed up. Krshia slowly reached below her counter for another arrow. But the Worker was just prodding at his head, feeling at his body as if it had changed suddenly and he was no longer sure if he had the right one.

“I. I am. I have become I. I do not understand.”

He looked around, up at the sky, at Erin. He shook like a leaf.

“If this one—is not—how are the many one? An individual cannot exist—the many are—how am I?”

He shook. Erin grabbed him.

“I don’t know. I try not to think about it. Come on. Let’s play a game of chess.”

He stared at her. Selys was trembling, and the air in the marketplace was tense. But then the Worker nodded.

Erin turned.

“I’m going.”

She began walking out of the marketplace. The Worker followed her, and the rest of the Antinium followed in a silent, winding procession. Selys stared at Erin’s back, eyes wide. She looked at Krshia.

“She’s insane. They’re going to kill her. It’s going to kill her. That was an Aberration—”

Krshia nodded. Her teeth were bared, and her fur was standing on end, but she had a quiver of arrows now.

“Yes. It was an Aberration but it wasn’t. At least—not yet. Is that how it happens? I do not know. Let us follow quickly, yes? Silverfangs, to me! Get every [Warrior] you can find.”

“What?”

Selys yelped, but Krshia was already gone from behind her counter. She barked something at another Gnoll and strode in the direction the Antinium had gone. Selys stared around at the other wide-eyed Drakes and then ran after Krshia.



——



The Worker walked behind Erin, and his fellows followed the two in a silent mass. She left the city gates behind, ignoring the Drake shouting at her. She walked as fast as she could, trying not to think, to feel.

Behind her, the Worker shuddered and twitched as he walked. Erin ignored that, but she heard him begin to mutter as he walked along.

“I. I am. But it is wrong. All is wrong. When the many become one, it is Aberration. I am Aberration.”

“Why? What’s wrong?”

The Worker just looked at her blankly, as if trying to explain reality to her.

“I cannot be individual. I cannot have names. I cannot choose my own actions. It is wrong. I am no longer one of the Workers. I am…me. This is wrong.”

“Klbkch did it.”

The Worker shook his head. He opened and closed his four hands restlessly.

“He is Prognugator. I am—was Worker. I should not be.”

Erin turned her head.

“You’re fine. You should be. It’s fine to be a person and not a thing.”

“I cannot understand. I am Aberration. All is Aberration. This Hive—I cannot accept it. Why am I sad? Why am I sad? What have you done to me?”

“…I’m sorry. But I wanted you to feel something.”

“I feel. I feel all.”

“Good.”

Erin kept walking, but the Worker stopped. He started twitching again, and then his gaze snapped to the back of her head. Slowly, the Worker increased his pace until he was right behind Erin. She didn’t notice, lost in her thoughts.

In the silence, the Worker reached out for Erin as he walked behind her. The other Workers watched as they followed. They said not a word.

“I don’t know what it means to be me.”

Erin said it as she walked along. She didn’t know how to explain it to the Worker. She had to say—something. To tell him what it was like.

“I don’t even know what it means to be Human. All I know is that there’s a big hole in my heart. Because Klbkch and the Worker died. I don’t know who I am or what I’m doing. I’m just—sad.”

The Worker paused. His hands hesitated at the back of Erin’s neck.

“Why?”

Erin smiled. Tears rolled down her cheeks as she walked through the grass.

“I just am. That’s how it works. You don’t get to choose to be someone. You just are. Even if you’re not special. Even if you don’t want to be. You just are.”

He paused. Slowly, the Worker lowered his hands.

“I do not understand. But—I am. And I too am sad.”

“Good. That’s—that’s good.”

Erin sniffed and wiped at her eyes and nose. The Worker slowly walked faster until he was next to her.

“Innkeeper—Erin Solstice. I am sorry for the death of Klbkch and the Worker. I regret their death and your suffering.”

“Thank you.”

They walked on in silence. Eventually, the Worker spoke again.

“I am no longer a Worker. I am an individual. I would like a name.”

She looked at him.

“I can’t help you. I’m not—I can’t give you one. Couldn’t you ask your Queen?”

He shook his head.

“I—do not wish to. I must have a name. Where may I find one?”

“I don’t know. Can’t you choose one for yourself?”

The Worker paused. He turned his head to Erin and hesitated before nodding.

“I will do so.”

She waited. After a minute of walking, the Worker spoke again.

“I would like to be known as ‘Pawn.’ It is a fitting name for this individual.”

Erin nodded. She gave him a weak smile.

“Hi, Pawn.”

“Hello. Erin Solstice.”

“…Will your friends be like you?”

Pawn looked over his shoulder. The other Workers looked away. He bowed his head.

“They are afraid. They will not be like me.”

“That’s fine.”

“But I have told them what it means to regret the passing of individuals. They understand.”

“Really? Good.”

Pawn nodded.

“They—we. We are all sad.”

“…I’m glad.”

They came to the inn on the hill and the bodies. Erin stared down at the blood and collapsed. She’d forgotten they were still there.

Pawn caught her before she hit the ground. He helped her up, and Erin sat down while the other Workers surrounded the area. They paused as they surveyed the wreckage of the inn and corpses and then seemed to come to a decision. As one, the Workers began hauling the corpses away while others of their number began digging several hundred feet away from the inn. More still entered the inn and began dragging out broken wood.

Erin sat in the grass and looked away. She glanced up as one of the Workers dragged out the body of their comrade. Then she threw up.

Eventually, Erin felt someone tap her on the shoulder. She looked up and saw it was Krshia.

“Erin Solstice. I was looking for you, yes? The Workers, they have finished their cleaning.”

She looked and saw it was true. The area around the inn was clean. Even the grass had been cleaned with water, and the Workers stood silently around the inn. They were all staring at her.

“Thanks.”

She said it to Pawn and then to the other Workers. They nodded as one.

“We assist to maintain order and preserve peace.”

“Thank you.”

Krshia stared at the sign above the Wandering Inn. She looked around and then followed Erin as the Human stepped inside.

“So, this is your inn, yes? It looks better than I had thought. Worth defending.”

Erin nodded. She looked around the empty room. The Workers had cleaned it almost to perfection. All the broken chairs and tables were gone. But they hadn’t touched one thing.

A splintered chess piece lay on the floor. Erin slowly walked over to it. It stared up at her, a Drake caught in mid-strike, a spear in his hands.

She looked down at the broken knight piece on the floor and picked up the base. Carefully, Erin put it in her pocket and looked around. Silent Workers filled the room. More stared through the windows.

Erin looked around. She saw the chess board and picked it up. It was heavy in her hands. She remembered sitting at a table and staring at a brown ant across the board.

Her eyes stung, but there weren’t any tears left. Erin brushed at her eyes and then turned with the chess board.

Slowly, Erin brought the board out and set it down in the grass outside the inn. The Antinium formed a huge circle around her, and Pawn stood in the center next to Erin. She sat down and placed the board in front of her. She gestured, and Pawn hesitated, then sat opposite her.

Erin looked at him. He was a bit shorter than Klbkch, thinner, and his features were somehow less sharp than Kblkch’s had been. He looked nothing like Klbkch at all, in fact. But her heart still hurt to look at him.

Slowly, Erin put the broken knight on her side of the chess board. Pawn rearranged the pieces on his side. She stared at him. She stared up at the sky. It was too blue, too pristine for a day like this. It wasn’t even night yet.

The sky should be raining blood. The world should be filled with darkness, and the earth should have opened up and swallowed her whole. She should have been paralyzed by sadness, but Erin just felt hollow. She understood nothing. It wasn’t fair. It wasn’t right.

And there was nothing she could do about it. So Erin moved a piece on the board. The broken knight moved up to C3. She looked at Pawn. He stared back, and the rest of the Workers stared with him at the Human who wept for Antinium.

Erin bowed her head.

“Let’s play chess.”





1.31


Erin sat on a grassy hilltop and played a game of chess. It made life easier. When she was playing, she could forget about life. She could forget about suffering.

It didn’t end such things. Chess was an escape. If you were bleeding or crying, it couldn’t help. Playing chess would bring no one back. There was an irony to the game; it was a complex competition still popular hundreds of years after it had been invented.

A computer would always win. Yet some people, like Erin, had spent great portions of their lives playing this game. In a world of computers and countless other things to devote your time to, Erin had become one of the world’s experts in this game.

And she was an expert. She was no Grandmaster or even an International Master, but she had reached a level beyond most players as a girl. Then the pressure, the game no longer being fun, and the futility of playing this game when real tragedy occurred, when it had no point, came crashing down on her.

All that was the same Erin who sat on the grass outside her inn. The fall was changing the colors of this place, and the wind was blowing at the top of the steep hill. If there were only some trees with autumn leaves…this would have been a perfect moment. A hill where she could sit in peace. No monsters. No death.

Klbkch’s blood and the blood of Goblins still stained the grass elsewhere. Gnolls and Antinium had found some of the bodies that had been left untouched. They were burning them. Erin should have stood and helped, but she was so weary. Her eyes were red from tears and she had no more to give. So she sat and played chess.

Erin moved her pieces on the chess board, pausing, considering, moving, retreating, taking. It was a dance of strategy and perception, and she had learned many of the steps long ago. But chess was always different with every game. That was why she could lose herself in it.

And yet, it wasn’t just calculation that Erin did. A chess player played against an opponent, and unless it was a computer, they read the other player and danced with them. Mind games were part of chess, just like basic strategy and knowing fundamental moves were. But Erin had never played against a mind like the one that sat opposite her.

She looked up over her pieces at her opponent, the Worker with a name.

Pawn. He was staring at the board, pondering his next move. His shaking was gone. He no longer spoke in a trembling whisper, and he was—calm. Calm, and as if he were the very grass upon which they sat. Blown away by the wind in this vast sky. Yet he did play, quickly, placing the pieces with the same confidence as Erin did, if not more.

Something was wrong with him. It wasn’t just that he had a name. Erin didn’t understand the Antinium, but she understood chess players. Something had seriously gone wrong with him.

He was too good. Their pieces clicked on the board as Erin Solstice realized she was losing. She had beaten state champions and even played Grandmasters, a rare honor.

And she was losing flawlessly. She could have blamed it on recent events, her lack of sleep, but her mind felt clear, beyond exhaustion and grief. Her focus deepened as she spoke.

“I still don’t get it. Where do levels come from? Why do people have them? Why do people only level up when they sleep?”

“I do not know, Erin Solstice. These are mysteries of the world. They are what they are, yes?”

Krshia shifted in her seat in the grass. She sat with Selys, inside the circle of watching Antinium Workers, but distinctly apart from them. She was calm, at least in that she was watching Erin play Pawn, but Selys kept glancing around at the silent Workers nervously.

“Fine. But if that’s the case, why don’t we get levels for everything? Like…walking. Is there a [Walker] class?”

Krshia shook her head.

“Walking is something we do, not something we live for, yes? Only things that we make our goals and dreams form classes. However, there is a [Runner] class.”

Erin glanced up, exasperated.

“But that makes no sense!”

“People run for a living, Erin. I’ve never met anyone who walks. That kind of class would be a [Traveller] or a [Journeywoman]. You see? No wait, [Journeywoman] is an apprentice class. See? Now you’re getting me confused.”

Selys sounded exasperated too, but she thought Erin had a point. The [Innkeeper] frowned and waved a pawn in her direction before she put it down.

“But that does mean you could get a class for eating, right?”

“You mean a [Gourmet]? I’ve heard some rich merchants and nobility have that class. Lifestyle, Erin. I hear there are some fat slobs who live all their lives just partying and living life up. [Hedonists].”

“No way. Really? Okay, I think I get it. But people can have multiple classes, right?”

Selys nodded. She was the bigger expert on classes, apparently. It probably had to do with her being a receptionist. Erin frowned, looked at a knight, and nearly ran right into the trap Pawn had set. How had he become so good?

“In theory, you could have as many classes as you want. But in practice, even most Adventurers only have three or four classes, tops. It’s because you don’t just get a class even if you qualify for it. It has to become part of your life.”

“Oh, I get it.”

Selys paused. Her tail curled up as she sat with her claws folded politely in her lap. Erin had noticed Drakes were expressive with their tails where their faces told nothing. Krshia, on the other hand, had a perfect poker face, and her tail wasn’t nearly long enough to give anything away.

“Um, did…no one ever tell you this when you were growing up, Erin? I mean, everyone knows this stuff. It’s basic.”

“Even the Antinium? Even the Workers?”

Pawn looked up from the board.

“Yes, Erin Solstice. We are taught such things as we are formed in Birther Sacs. All Workers know of leveling, but we seldom do.”

“Why? I’ve gained ten…yeah, ten levels this month.”

Krshia and Selys exchanged a glance. Even the Workers twitched their antennae at each other in their seats.

“Are you serious?”

Erin looked up and saw Selys gaping at her.

“What? I’m only Level 10. Isn’t that low?”

“It is—but—I mean, it is, but no one levels up that fast! Erin, normally someone has to apprentice to someone else for years before they hit Level 10. Most kids—well, most people our age are barely Level 14 in their chosen profession around now. Maybe they have other classes—my friend, Drassi, switches jobs every other week, so she’s barely got levels in anything but [Gossip]. Still! Ten levels in a month?”

“Really? Only Level 14? That just seems so…low.”

Again, Erin had the impression she was the only person in the group that thought that way.

“Well, Level 100 is the highest, right? Doesn’t that mean most people would get to…I dunno, Level 60 or higher before they die?”

Selys laughed—more incredulously than politely.

“You’re joking. Right?”

Erin shrugged. She moved another pawn and took a bishop. Then she realized it was another trap. She was going to lose her other knight.

“Am I wrong?”

Krshia nodded.

“I have known many elderly people. They all have levels in their twenties or sometimes thirties, yes? Few are above Level 40. A great Tribe might have more than one; some tribes have none at all. Few even reach their thirtieth level. If I had to name those above Level 50, there would only be…a dozen in each continent, yes?”

“So someone over Level 70 for example…?”

Selys looked at Krshia. The Gnoll shrugged.

“I don’t think I know of one living, in any class. I’ve heard legends about warriors that reached that level, but those are ancient stories. You know, the kind where a single hero defeats armies by himself or slays Hydras and Krakens single-handedly. People just don’t level that high.”

Erin nodded. She knew they were watching her incredulously, and she knew she was giving away her ignorance. Klbkch had noticed it…

And he was dead. So Erin just went on.

“Okay. I think I get it. So people level up, but not that high. And you can have more than one class, but you have to level that one up from the start, right?”

Selys nodded. It was a different nod than Erin’s. Her neck was longer, so it looked more like a long bob than the short motion Erin was used to.

“Right. If you were a [Spearmaster] like Relc, say, and then you picked up a sword and started using that, you’d probably get the [Warrior] class until you were high enough level and had enough skills for a [Swordslayer] class or a [Duelist] class or something like that.”

“So classes change names?”

“Are you sure no one’s ever talked to you about this?”

“Klbkch explained some of it to me.”

“Oh. Um. Oh, I—well, yes, classes change. It’s just usually in name to represent you’re more specialized or—or you’ve hit a higher level. For instance, [Tacticians] usually become [Strategists], but they can become [Leaders] or [Generals]. It depends on the Skills you have. And what you do with your life.”

“And…I think I remember this. Skills define classes, right? But doesn’t everyone get the same Skills when they level up?”

“No. They do not.”

Krshia stared at Erin. Her eyes narrowed as her brow creased together in a frown. Erin paid no notice. She could see more than people thought when she played chess, and she learned more than she let on. But right now? It didn’t matter.

“Everyone gets different Skills when they level. Often, they’re the same, but some people get them at different times or get different variations on Skills…it’s about need. Need and want determine what Skills we get.”

“And what we do, right? That determines our classes, which determines how our level ups affect us and whether or not our classes change.”

Selys looked relieved Erin was finally getting it.

“Exactly.”

Erin looked at Pawn. He and all the Workers were staring hard at the board. Erin pushed her king over. She’d lost. They reset the board, and she began again. And once more—he moved so surely she felt like he had been playing longer than she had. How had he done this overnight? He’d been an amateur when she met him in her inn. Now…she glanced up, and all saw his antennae waving slowly in thought. It made her smile.

“Do the Workers have lots of levels? You guys work all the time, so you’ve got to have lots, right?”

He paused, and Erin noticed something odd. All of the Workers were focused on the board. Yet when Pawn moved a piece, suddenly they looked at her or elsewhere. But whenever she moved a piece, they immediately focused on the board again to the exclusion of everything else.

“We have very few levels, Erin. I myself am a Level 2 [Butcher] and Level 1 [Carpenter].”

“What? Is it—is it because you’re young or something?”

“I have lived more than half of the average Worker’s lifespan. The Workers do not level up frequently. Some do not level at all.”

Erin turned in her grassy seat to look at Selys and Krshia. The Drake flicked her tongue out in surprise.

“I…didn’t know that.”

“Neither did I. But it is not unexpected, yes? Leveling comes from learning and trials. Without such things there is no experience gained. For one who does the same thing without change, they will not level.”

“And that’s probably why you’ve leveled so quickly, Erin. Starting an inn by yourself—that’s got to be a lot harder than just working in one or taking over a business.”

“Oh. Okay.”

It had been the hardest thing Erin had ever done in her life. She looked down at her stomach and legs folded pretzel-style beneath her. They should have been full of holes or scarred from countless stab-wounds. Yeah, it was different than just being an innkeeper in a city.

“So the Antinium don’t level up much? I guess Klbkch was an exception.”

“A big one. He was the Slayer, a Prognugator—”

Selys hesitated. She ducked her head.

“—He was famous among his people, Erin. One of the few Antinium with a name. He—”

Krshia kicked Selys, and the Drake looked guilty, but Erin just nodded. She took all the feelings and put them into the chess pieces. Just for a while. Then she thought of the Soldiers.

“But doesn’t that mean they’re weak, then? If most Drakes around my age are Level 10 or higher, why aren’t they way stronger than all the Antinium?”

“Erin, have you seen those giant soldier-types the Antinium keep in their tunnels? I caught a glimpse of one walking through the streets this morning.”

Selys shuddered. Her tail twitched several times.

“They don’t need levels, Erin. They’re deadly enough as it is. If you gave them high levels and churned them out the way the Antinium can, they’d be an unstoppable army.”

“Yeah, that’s true. I guess levels can’t replace numbers or muscle, can it?”

“Well, it can, but only if there’s a big difference in levels. Relc, for instance…he’s strong. He could probably take on a lot of those soldiers. Not that he would—don’t get me wrong! But he’s Level 32, I think. That’s incredibly different than a Level 13 [Warrior]. Does this all make sense, Erin?”

Erin moved another piece and knew how the game would end.

“I think I get it. Thanks for explaining.”

“I just don’t understand why you don’t know all th—”

Selys was cut off as Krshia elbowed her hard in the side. She hissed rather than squeaked and sat straight up. Krshia broke into the conversation.

“It is curious you do not know of levels, but perhaps your people do not level in the same way we do, yes? Rare classes, perhaps? I understand not all classes are earned equally. Especially in places like the Kingdom of Keys. Samal. Peaceful places.”

Selys frowned at Erin, but the [Innkeeper]’s face was smooth as she moved a piece.

“Yeah. Something like that. Is leveling a big part of people’s lives here?”

“Some would call it…belief. Some yes, some think levels rule everything. No one w…hm, what’s the word? Worships? The gods are dead, Erin. They are dead. In some places, leveling is preached and those with the highest level are worshiped. I have heard it said that to each one of us is a maximum level given, and when we reach that level, we have reached the end of our life.”

Selys rubbed her head as if even talking about this was giving her a headache. Silence fell over the grassy audience. Erin turned in her seat and stared at Krshia.

“Seriously? Some people believe that?”

Krshia’s gaze didn’t waver.

“Yes.”

“That’s stupid.”

Selys gasped, but Krshia shrugged.

“Some believe, Erin. And who is to say what is true?”

“…I guess.”

Erin turned back to the game and saw Pawn had moved. She tipped over her king.

“I forfeit again. Good match.”

Pawn bowed from his seat to her. Erin bowed her head back.

“It was a good game, Erin.”

“It was a great game!”

Selys sat up in her seat and stared at the two players.

“I don’t know much about chess, but I’ve seen Olesm play. You’re way better than he is, Erin. And you…um…Pawn.”

He bowed to her, and she flinched.

“I merely learn from Erin Solstice. She is an expert in this game.”

“And that’s another thing. How are you so good at that, Erin? Olesm says you’re the best player he’s ever seen or heard of. Are you a high-level [Tactician], then?”

“No.”

Erin was mildly insulted by the suggestion. She helped Pawn reset the board as Selys frowned.

“What about some other class? Or is it a rare Skill?”

“No, it’s just skill. Not the kind you get from leveling up. Just skill in the game. I don’t have any levels besides [Innkeeper].”

“But then how are you so good?”

Erin took her time before answering. She reset her pieces and switched the board around. Silently, Pawn moved a piece forwards, and she countered. Another game began, but she had the same feeling.

“I just played since I was a kid, that’s all. Every day. At first it was just a hobby, y’know? Something I saw an adult do, but then I found I liked it. When I won my first tournament, I was over the moon. And after that, I just kept playing.”

Selys glanced at Krshia.

“But wasn’t chess invented only a few years ago by the Titan of B—”

Again, she received an elbow in the side and glared at Krshia, but then she stared at Erin in sudden interest.

“Well, I guess maybe here it’s new. But chess has been around a lot longer where I come from.”

Erin smiled briefly.

“A lot longer. And lots of people love to play it where I come from. There’s strategy books, lessons online, tutors…I learned it all. Fun fact? I learned how to play chess blindfolded before I learned how to ride a bike.”

She moved another piece. After a second of staring, Pawn moved his queen and took it. She frowned and kept playing. Memory was overlapping with reality.

“I was never the best. But I was good. Really good. For my age? I was incredible. I played in tournaments, I stayed up late playing chess—my parents let me. They knew I had a gift. So I would study chess every moment I had free time, play adults, go to chess clubs and tournaments after school, and I kept winning. But then once you get to a high enough level, you start losing.”

Like now. Just like now, and then, Erin stared at the board and felt outclassed. She moved a rook and watched it die two moves in the future to protect her queen.

“It happens. And it’s not surprising. Even a genius kid can’t beat an adult who’s played thousands—tens of thousands more games. But every time I lost, it crushed me. So I quit.”

“You q—ow! Stop hitting me!”

Erin smiled, but it was fleeting. Her entire focus was devoted to the game before her and speaking. She had to admit, she’d thought she was too good to beat at one point. As if you could talent past experience.

…Much like Pawn was doing, actually. Erin glanced up at him. This was impossible for someone to do, play at this level without practice. It was more than intelligence or experience. She knew patterns and strategy. Yet he won. She went on, remembering.

“Somewhere…sometime I guess I lost interest in playing chess. Or maybe I stopped having fun. I don’t know how to explain it. I was just a kid, but I spent every waking moment playing the stupid game, going to tournaments, studying, winning, losing—I never really lived. I never played with my friends.”

She moved a pawn. The Workers paused, and then Pawn moved a piece.

“When I realized that, I quit. I just stopped playing, threw away my chess set…I did normal things. It took me years before I even looked at a chess board, and then it was fun to play. But I never wanted to be a Grandmaster again. The pressure, living just for that one game—it’s too much.”

Pawn took her queen, ironically, with a pawn. It couldn’t be avoided, but Erin knew how the game was going to end now.

“I guess I’m just a normal girl who’s better than 99% of the world at chess. But that last 1%. That’s a heck of a large gap.”

“If that is the case, Miss Erin, I shudder to imagine what kind of geniuses live in your home nation.”

At some point, Olesm had appeared, and Pisces, and even three of the four Goblins. Rags sat in the grass among the Workers, silently watching the game. The Antinium looked at the Goblins and then away, but Selys gripped a dagger at her belt as she glared at the Goblins, and Krshia sneezed. Yet there was peace, however tenuous. Perhaps it had to do with the pile of Goblin corpses buried in the unmarked grave a mile away.

“I’m sure you don’t think of it this way, but I cannot imagine a player better than you, Erin. I have Skills that allow me to play the game better than most, but I cannot beat you no matter how hard I try.”

Pisces nodded in agreement. Erin grinned mirthlessly. They hadn’t seen how the last few games had been played.

“Why don’t I level, then? I don’t have any levels in [Tactician], but Pawn tells me the other Workers have leveled up in it. Probably the Goblins as well.”

Erin moved another piece and watched Pawn hesitate. Well, good.

“We’ve got a ranking system in my world. People who play chess in tournaments get a score, which goes up and down when they win or lose. A Grandmaster’s got about 2600 or more points, and the really amazing chess players all have over 2200 points. If you have that many, you’re pretty much one of the best in the nation.”

He decided to lose a knight as opposed to his bishop. Erin frowned. The game was ending. How was he this good? It was impossible. She felt like she was playing…

A Grandmaster. But it couldn’t be.

“I got to just over 2000 when I was a kid. That’s insane but—it’s still a huge difference between that and being a Grandmaster. If I kept playing, maybe I’d be around 2400 right now. But either way, I’m one of the best in the place where I lived. In this world—I probably am the best. So why don’t I level?”

Olesm appeared distressed.

“…I could not say. It does not make sense.”

“I can.”

Pisces nodded self-importantly as everyone looked at him. He was still arrogant, but it was muted arrogance, subdued. Erin was grateful for that.

“Classes are based on what we pursue. Yet—by that same notion, what we consider unimportant or trivial fails to trigger the same classes in other people. It is a known phenomenon I studied during my time in Wistram Academy. I wrote a paper that—well, suffice it to say, if you do not consider chess to be anything other than a game, you would not level.”

Olesm and Selys looked incredulously at Pisces.

“A game? But it’s obviously a game.”

“Allow me to rephrase my statement.”

Pisces looked annoyed as he searched for a better explanation.

“What I mean to say is that if Mistress Solstice does not consider any of the tactical applications of learning to play chess—how moving pawns is similar to organizing warriors, for instance—she would not level in the [Tactician] class. To begin with, the amount of experience gained from playing chess is far lower than actual work as a strategist, so if she cared not at all about games of war as opposed to games of pieces…”

“I don’t level. Makes sense.”

Erin tipped over her king and sighed. She’d sped up the rate of her play, but somehow that had only made her game worse, not Pawn’s.

“I lose. Again.”

She sat back in the grass and looked up at the fading sky. Olesm and Pisces stared open-mouthed at Pawn as he carefully set the game back together.

“How are you doing it? No one gets this good overnight. Not even a genius can play like that on his first go.”

Pawn ducked his head in front of Erin’s stare, cowed.

“Apologies. But the Innkeeper Solstice makes a mistake. This one—I am sorry. You misunderstand, Erin. At this moment, you are not simply playing me, but all the Antinium gathered here.”

He gestured around at the grassy knoll where the countless workers, the two Drakes, two Humans, Goblins, and single Gnoll sat.

“The hundred play as one mind. We see a hundred moves and play them all in turn. We think together and play as one body.”

Erin stared at him.

“Hive mind.”

“Just so. We think as one. That is the nature of the Antinium. Even if—that nature has been compromised by the experiment. Though I am individual, that is still true of me. I do not know why, but I feel…”

Pawn gestured silently around at the other Workers. Something was happening, and not even the other Antinium seemed to understand that. Yet if they did feel each other’s thoughts—Erin looked at him.

“And Klbkch? And the Worker? Did you feel…?”

Pawn shook his head, slowly.

“We felt their loss, Erin. But only when we knew it. The Queen remembers. She knows us all. But we—we are Antinium. This is new.”

He stared down at his hands as the [Innkeeper] lowered her eyes. Until Pawn spoke.

“At least, Klbkch will not be gone forever. So long as the Queen lives, she will remember him.”

Erin stopped placing chess pieces back on the board. She stared into Pawn’s fragmented eyes, urgently seeking the truth.

“But what about the other Worker? What about him?”

Her reply was a sad look. Pawn’s antennae stopped moving, and he replied quietly.

“Why would she remember him? He was no Prognugator. He had no name.”

“But he was brave. He—he died for me. Both of them should be remembered.”

Erin clenched a hand in the grass. Pawn looked at her, and then he bowed his head.

“He was the designated Worker who won 54.6% of all games he played. He had no name. If you wish it, I will remember him, Miss Solstice.”

Her head came up. Erin gave Pawn a pained look, but one filled with gratitude.

“So will I. And you won’t forget?”

He shook his head. Pawn peered at Erin’s shimmering eyes and tried to reassure her.

“Do not be sad, Miss Solstice. We are the Antinium. So long as the Hive exists, all will be well. So long as the Queen lives—nothing else matters.”

Erin paused. She looked down and wiped at her eyes.

“I wish that were true.”

The Antinium moved in shock, but some of them turned from Erin to Pawn and listened. Selys shifted in her seat. She bowed her head. Olesm cleared his throat.

“As much as it pains me to say it, Erin, I have to disagree with you. Klbkch was truly unique. He was the first—and only—Antinium ever to be accepted as a member of the Watch. Even among the Antinium’s Prognugators, and there are few, he was the only trusted Antinium to ever exist. Ever since the Antinium entered the city ten years ago, he’s been the one who acted as a liaison between their Queen and our city. He is—was the representative of their race. I, um, feel like I should say that about him now. I quite respected him, despite him being an—an Antinium.”

“I never knew he was so important.”

Krshia nodded.

“He was humble. It was why many liked him. And now he is gone.”

“Not so long as the Queens live. He will be remembered. It is more than any other Antinium has.”

Pawn stared around with something approaching defiance. Erin shook her head.

“But he can’t speak to us, Pawn. He’s gone for us.”

He hesitated.

“I—see. I feel there is much misunderstood, but I respect your grief.”

Awkwardly, he placed his king back in position.

“Will you play another game, Erin?”

“Would it do any good? I can’t win. You—you’re better than I am.”

Olesm and Pisces began to protest, but they were quickly drowned out. Every Worker clicked in denial of Erin’s statement. They made a low buzzing sound that was quiet individually, but sounded like an armageddon of bees together. Selys clutched at Krshia’s fur.

“There is much we learn from each game, Erin Solstice. Please do not stop teaching.”

Erin smiled hollowly.

“Teaching?”

It didn’t feel like that. It felt like running away from everything. But fine. She owed the Workers. She owed the Antinium. So fine.

Slowly, she drew the board away from Pawn, batting away his hands.

“Stop that. Let me show you something.”

She reversed the board and moved the white pawn forwards.

“This—is an Immortal Game.”

Instantly, Pawn stopped protesting. Pisces and Olesm exchanged a glance and moved up. Rags was already sitting next to the board. Erin slowly moved the black pawn up in front of the white one.

“In the history of chess, there are a lot of famous games that we study because of how brilliant they are. Some people call other games Immortal Games as well. And there are a few famous ones. But this. This is the Immortal Game. Some of the moves aren’t considered as good nowadays, but this is still considered one of the pinnacle moments of chess in my world.”

Krshia breathed in sharply, but Erin’s words passed over the audience as she moved the chess pieces slowly across the board. Slowly, the two sides played against each other. Erin pointed out each gambit, each strategy and attack and counter as the game played out.

“King’s Gambit Accepted to open with, and then the Bishop’s Gambit…see here, he tries the Byran-Counter Gambit with the pawn? And then the white side attacks the queen with a knight here…”

She played the game out from memory. She’d seen it so many times in her head it was second nature to her. The chess players watched, frowning, trying to keep up with the dizzying display before them. But the Workers stared at the board, and as Erin moved into the last phase of the game and took the white queen, Pawn spoke.

“We can see the ending.”

Erin looked up. Olesm and Pisces stared at Pawn in disbelief.

“Show me.”

Pawn hesitated, but then reached out and moved the white pawn up. Erin stared down at the board and played the next move, checking the white side’s king with a queen. Pawn moved the king diagonally, and the game continued.

A perfect game. He played the game exactly how Erin remembered it. In the silence, she toppled the black king and looked up. Olesm and Pisces were staring at Pawn as if he’d turned into a horrific monster.

“Good. Now play me. One last time.”

Silently, Pawn sat opposite Erin and set up the pieces once more. She stared at the board. She was white. Slowly, she moved a pawn forwards.

“I was always afraid of losing as a kid. Always. I studied so hard so I wouldn’t lose. Maybe that’s why I never improved. I thought losing was a terrible thing.”

Pawn waited and studied the board. He moved a knight forwards in response. Erin whispered.

“But chess? Chess isn’t scary. Not compared to other things.”

That was the last thing Erin said. She wiped at her blurry eyes and set aside her heart for a moment so she could play. It was a relief. It felt so good to lay everything aside and at the same time to let it all out. To let it hurt and play.

Erin’s pulse pounded in the back of her mind. The world around the chess board vanished, and the chess board grew before her eyes. Each piece consumed her vision, and she heard only the click of moving pieces. That sound was thunder in her head.

Pawn sat in front of her, but she didn’t focus on him. He couldn’t be read. He couldn’t be outthought. There were a hundred of him thinking over every move. So Erin just played. The chess board was her world, the pieces parts of her soul.

She looked at her opponent and saw another Antinium sitting opposite her. Erin dreamt as she played. She was playing in her heart, in the core of her being, in her wishes of what might have been.

In this place, there was only the game. And Klbkch.

Erin was crying as she played. Her tears fell on the chess board and into the grass. She played and moved pieces and lost them. But it was all part of a bigger plan, one she couldn’t see, couldn’t understand. She could understand chess. That was easy. But she couldn’t understand anything else.

She took the enemy pawns. She took his rook, his knight, his bishop, and his queen. She hounded him, lured him into traps and pushed into his lines and kept her own pieces safe, or gave them away to tear his apart. She pushed and pushed, until he had nothing left.

In the silence of her dark world, Erin saw the king topple over. She blinked, and the moment was over.

Pawn bowed his head. Erin heard ringing in her ears and then snuffling. She looked over and saw Olesm was crying. The [Tactician] wiped away tears from his eyes.

“I will—I will never see—I cannot explain what it is.”

Pisces was covering his eyes, rubbing them with the heel of his hands. Rags was staring at the pieces, her eyes bloodshot as if she hadn’t blinked in an age.

“It was—that was a display beyond anything I’ve seen. It was pure! I couldn’t see how it would end! I couldn’t predict the next move! How are you not a [General] or—or a [Strategist] of the highest level?”

Erin shook her head. She looked at the chess board.

“It’s just a game. I’m no tactician or even a warrior.”

She stared at her hands.

“I’m just an [Innkeeper]. I don’t want to be anything else. I don’t even want to be that, but I am. That’s all.”

She stood up. Pawn stared at her. The Workers stared at her. She met their eyes and bowed her head. She wiped at her eyes and let her tears fall into the grass.

“I’m sorry.”

Then she left. Slowly, Erin walked inside her inn and collapsed onto the floor. She slept, mercifully, with the blackness of oblivion and no dreams.



[Innkeeper Level 11!]

[Skill – Lesser Strength obtained!]



[Skill – Immortal Moment learned.]





1.32 R


Ow.

Fuck.

Ow. Ow. Ow. Ow. Ouch. Ow.

It hurts worse than that. It hurts…more than anything I’ve ever felt. Like someone’s tearing off my leg, like I want to remove it myself or scream. The cute words—they’re there so I don’t scream. I didn’t know it could hurt so much.

I’ve broken bones—this—this is worse.

This is why painkillers were invented.

Damn it. Stop moving. Every time I shift, every time I breathe, it gets worse. I—I try to raise the shaking book with my hands.

Flip the page. I fumble with it, but I’m sweating, sweating and I can ask for a refill to my tankard.

I don’t want to refill it. I don’t want to contemplate using the bathroom. I can’t—can’t bear to move. If I was in my room, I’d pee in a container. Normally, I’d rather die than—

The pain. Nothing else in this world matters, not dignity. It’s gone. My leg is—

It’s hot. Why can’t people invent air conditioning in this stupid world already? The common room of an inn is not the best place to read in peace. But it beats sitting in my room and listening to drunk people banging down the hall or having sex.

This is why I hate people. That one thought lingers in my mind. Hate and hate—and Persua—and—I’ll kill her.

I’ll never walk again.

Okay. Focus. That’s just—you don’t know that.

Ignore them. What does it say? The letters are swimming, so I have to read each word out through the agony. Focus on that instead of anything else.

‘…The incursion of the Antinium hives into the southern region of the continent led to the bloody year-long war known as the Antinium Wars, or more specifically, the First Antinium War, in which hundreds of thousands of Antinium soldiers established huge colonies across the western coast where it bordered the High Passes, razing cities and forcing Gnoll tribes to retreat into the lower plains regions.

Initially, the southern Drake cities and allied confederacies were slow to react to the Antinium sweeping through the plateaus and rugged mountainous regions of the continent, underestimating the dangers of an entrenched Antinium hive and the true numbers of the Antinium concealed beneath the earth. It was only after five cities were lost that—’

GYAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAH! My foot! Someone yanks a chair into my foot, notices me, and walks off with a muttered apology. I nearly scream at them. If I had the ability, I would stab them to death.

Why, why, why did the stupid chair have to be right there? The pain!

Crap. Did I bust open the injury? Let me see.

It’s hard to scoot back from my table to peer underneath it, but I can see the heavy white gauze. It’s bloody, but no more than it was last time I checked. Wonderful.

And it still hurts. I’ve broken bones before, but it never felt anything like this. But considering this injury—

Yeah.

Fuck.

One of the barmaids is looking at me. I stare right back at her, and she turns away. I’m really not in the mood for attention. And thinking about the pain only makes me want to scream out loud. Half from the pain, half from searing rage. So. Back to the book.

Okay. Ignore the pain. What was that about Antinium? Are they still around? I flip through the pages.

Confederacy of states…hasty alliance…skip all that. Ah.

‘The tide of the war only changed after the discovery of the Antinium’s fatal weakness. Using their newfound tactics, the Southern Alliance used long-range mage spells to assault Antinium hives and deter attacking forces.

One of the Hives was destroyed entirely before a temporary truce was formed between the Antinium Queens and the leaders of the city states. This peace was tenuous however and lasted for only ten years when the Antinium attacked again, leading to the Second Antinium War…’

Weakness. They had a weakness? Must have missed that bit.

Let’s see. Where would that be? And why haven’t I seen these ant-people around? Well, they’re pariahs or outcasts to most societies, so I guess that’s why. But do they have any useful features or are they just bug-people?

Oh, here’s the weakness.

I pause with my finger on the passage as I hear a cheerful voice calling my name above the hubbub of the inn. Oh. Oh no. Not her again.



——



Ryoka Griffin was sitting in the middle of an inn. It was not an extraordinary inn—just one of the many inns located in the Human city of Celum.

She was reading and scowling. Because she was talented, she could do both at the same time. She was also sitting by herself, occasionally eating from a cold plate left in front of her.

“Hey there, Ryoka!”

A cheerful voice drowned out the ambient noise of conversation and drew every gaze. Ryoka looked up from her book and spotted the girl making her way towards her. Her expression didn’t change, but her eye twitched once.

“Hey, Ryoka, how are you doing?”

“I’m fine, Garia.”

Garia Strongheart slid into an empty chair at the table and smiled cheerfully at Ryoka. Her cheerfulness was not reciprocated. Ryoka just glanced up at Garia and went back to reading.

Undeterred, Garia flagged down a barmaid and requested one of the local drinks, a strong, semi-alcoholic beverage that was cool and flavorful at the same time. In Ryoka’s opinion, it was a shame that the flavor in question was beer.

“So, how are you doing? Is your leg feeling any better?”

Ryoka glanced up and glared.

“Guess.”

Garia’s smile faltered.

“Did you—did you go to see the [Healer] I told you about? She’s a good one. Works with us Runners all the time.”

“Couldn’t help. The bone’s too badly broken.”

“Oh. I’m sorry.”

“Not your fault.”

Ryoka had a talent for shutting down conversations. Garia stared at her and tried to surreptitiously glance at her bandaged leg. She winced and covered her wince by changing the subject.

“Is that a book?”

Ryoka glanced up from her book. She eyed Garia. Her tone was beyond brusque and was past unfriendly. More into the point where a single word was akin to someone slamming a door into your face.

“…Yes.”

Yet Garia persisted. She smiled hugely, and Ryoka Griffin didn’t seem to notice how Garia peeked at the red bandages and the…

…leg…

Under the table. Garia’s smile blanched and grew wider. Determinedly. She tried to keep her voice upbeat, but Ryoka was close to snarling.

“What’s it about?”

“History.”

“You mean, world history like you were asking me about the other day? Sorry I didn’t know more.”

Ryoka shook her head. She was sweating and clenching her teeth.

“The history of the cities.”

“Oh. Is it, um, interesting?”

“Not really.”

It was fascinating. Ryoka was no history buff, but it was amazing what being transported to another world did for her interest in mundane things like economics and politics.

“I’m not a big reader. My dad and mother are, but I can only read when I go home. Books’re too expensive otherwise.”

“You can read?”

Garia blushed, but she nodded, a bit proudly.

“I was taught, and I know more than basic words. Fals can read too, and he owns a few books.”

Ryoka raised her eyebrows.

“Good for him.”

Again, Garia was forced to continue a mostly one-sided conversation.

“Where’d you get the book?”

“I bought it in the market. Didn’t cost much.”

“Really? I thought most books were several gold coins—at least.”

“Some sell for silver. Either way, it’s fine.”

Ryoka scowled as she chomped on another slice of ham. The lack of any library in this city meant she had to buy any books she wanted to read, and some were annoyingly expensive. But she wasn’t about to get into a discussion of economics with Garia and fuel the conversation.

The problem was, Garia was more than capable of finding topics of interest by herself. The other girl stared at the pile of books on the table.

“Are you going to read all of these, then?”

“I already read ‘em.”

“What, all of them?”

“Not like I have anything else to do.”

Ryoka deliberately turned a page.



——



I really wish she’d go away. Or do I? At least she’s keeping drunk guys from hitting on me.

I hate this. I hate her, I hate this inn, and I hate this entire world. If I could burn it down to the ground, I’d—

Probably not. At least, she’s not the one I hate. So maybe destroy all the world except for a few people.

But the pain. And boredom, let’s not forget. It’s a sad day when Garia’s daily visit is the most interesting thing that happens to me.

It’s been three days since my ‘accident’. Another few days and I might seriously snap. Like my leg—

Damn it all. If I could kill every damned Street Runner in the world, I would in an instant. Even if I had to stare into their eyes as I choked them to death. I will have vengeance, I swear it.

But until then, how the hell do I heal my leg? How, how, how? If it’s really beyond most normal magics—

Ask Garia? She might know of a better way, even if her first idea failed. Worth a shot, and I hope I have enough money for whatever I need. Crap, she’s been talking, and I have no idea what she said. Better wing it.

Huh. That’s a crowd coming in right now. Hope they don’t want to share the table. They look familiar, though.

Who’s that? Another Runn—

Her.

Kill her. Stab her. Break her bones. Don’t do it. Do it. Hurt her. Smash her stupid face in. Kill. Killkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkillkill—



——



Garia realized Ryoka hadn’t heard her question the third time she repeated it. The other young woman had frozen in place, staring at something over Garia’s shoulder. Garia turned, looked, and knew there was about to be trouble.

“You.”

Ryoka shoved her chair back and swung up onto her good leg. Good being—operative. Her face blanched, and Garia saw her skin go dead white, but Ryoka pressed past the pain.

Persua smirked at her. She was, as always, flanked by her friends. Toriska and Claudeil. Claudeil glanced at Ryoka’s legs and then away, but Toriska just glared at Garia. Persua? She laughed at Ryoka in delight and then pretended to be surprised.

“Oh, Ryoka? I didn’t see you there. Fancy meeting you in this inn. How are you doing?”

It was hard getting her other leg out from under the table. But when she did, Ryoka stood up on her good leg and lunged for Persua faster than anyone would have guessed. She never made it, though.

Garia grabbed Ryoka by the shoulder and gently pulled her back. Despite Ryoka’s attempts to shake her off, she refused to let go and dragged Ryoka back from the smirking Persua and her gaggle of Street Runners. Toriska produced her knife, and Persua danced behind Claudeil.

“Ah! You’re rabid, Ryoka! Did you see that? She attacked me for no reason!”

“Ryoka, stop.”

Garia was pulling Ryoka back, and she was strong, but Ryoka was straining with all her might to get at Persua, fists raised. The other Runners wanted it; Claudeil had his own fists raised, and he was eying Ryoka’s immobilized leg. Persua whispered in his ear, and Garia pulled Ryoka back. The young woman snarled at her.

“Let go, Garia.”

“No, calm down, Ryoka. If you start a fight, you’ll be the one in trouble.”

The expression on Ryoka’s face suggested she was fine with that, but Garia could count. There were at least eight Street Runners behind Persua plus her two friends, and they looked ready to cause trouble. One-handed, she pulled Ryoka back and made her sit back down.

That should have been hard to do, even to an injured Ryoka, but Garia was stronger than she looked. And she looked like a farm girl capable of lifting bales of hay with one hand.

As she pinned Ryoka to her chair, Garia moved so she was between her friend and Persua. She sat down—and gripped the underside of the table so hard her hands went white.

“Why don’t we all settle down? Persua, you and your friends can go have a drink somewhere else, okay?”

It was a surprise for Garia to say anything to Persua. Toriska’s eyebrows rose.

“I don’t recall telling you to say anything, Garia. Look at her, Persua.”

Persua gave Garia a mocking glance. Then she spread her hands innocently and ratcheted up her pitch another octave in innocent protest.

“I don’t understand what you mean, Garia. I’m just saying hi to Ryoka, who’s had a little accident. Can’t you understand that? Or are things going too fast for you to keep up with?”

Now it was Garia’s turn to flush, but she didn’t rise to the bait.

“You’ve had your fun, but I think you should leave, Persua.”

Persua gave Garia and Ryoka a sickly sweet fake smile.

“But as a fellow City Runner, I want to let Ryoka know how terribly sorry I am that she got in the way of that runaway cart. If only she’d listened to her fellow runners. We were all trying to warn her, you know. But that’s Ryoka for you. She just doesn’t listen now, does she?”

Garia could feel Ryoka’s shoulder trembling under her hand. It was getting harder to hold her down, and that was before Persua ‘accidentally’ mentioned how horrible it had been that no one was able to help Ryoka until she dragged herself to the nearest guardhouse for help. Her other hand gripped the table as the [Innkeeper] glanced up—Claudeil was eying Ryoka’s legs.

Ryoka was staring at a knife on her plate. It was quite sharp—but Toriska was glancing at the other Street Runners sidling around the table, and her foot was dancing. Ready to give a little kick—

She started forwards, and a sound made her freeze and jump back.

Crack.

Everyone looked down. Garia blinked—and a part of the stout wooden table she was holding came away in one hand. Even Ryoka blinked down. The wood was half a foot thick…Claudeil hesitated, and Toriska skipped back a step.

Garia’s fist was clenched, and she was breathing hard. She was, in fact—angry.

As angry as Fals had been. But Fals wasn’t here, and it was just slowpoke Garia, the [Farmer]’s girl. The one who…lifted huge packs of ore and ran for miles.

The other Street Runners hesitated, but there were eleven, counting Persua, Toriska, and Claudeil. Ryoka’s leg was broken.

Persua stared at the table, then her features twisted into a snarl, and she nudged Toriska. The other City Runner skipped forwards as Garia tensed, and Ryoka’s hand closed around the knife—

But then the door opened again, and a hush fell over the room. Where the Street Runners had entered into the noise and chaos of the inn, the next group that entered brought silence with them.

Casual inn-goers of the variety of merchants, farmers, shopkeepers, and so on scrambled out of the way as a huge figure strode into the room. [Tavern Toughs] looked up—and sat back.

A seven-foot figure loomed over their tables. When he took a step, the liquid in a cheap cup moved. With his horns, he was even taller, and he was already larger than every other man in the room—before his plate armor. And if that was not already enough, the Minotaur had a huge steel battleaxe strapped onto his back.

He was followed by seven other figures, each one armed far beyond regular citizens. They carried swords, a longbow, a staff with a glittering crystal top—the only thing that didn’t make the [Innkeeper] scream for the Watch was the fact that they were clearly adventurers. Instead, he brought out a huge keg of ale with a big smile and told the [Cook] to put on a roast.

Adventurers meant money.

The Horns of Hammerad looked around and spotted Ryoka and Garia on the other side of the inn. Their leader immediately made a beeline for the two, walking in an open space of his own. No one wanted to get in the way of the Minotaur’s path.

His face was like a bull’s, furred but humanoid enough to show his surprise, gratification—then mounting displeasure. His horns, similarly, rose high above his head and had twin caps of gold, stylized with a hammer and two gates open over waves. If you could see the miniature engravings, they read ‘Hammerad, Beriad, House of Minos.’

He was focused on Ryoka Griffin. Persua was still mocking Ryoka and Garia, oblivious to the newcomers in the inn. The Street Runners behind her were nervously eying the approaching adventurers, but they didn’t move from their spot.

“Going to take a swing, Ryoka? Go ahead. Toriska—Toriska.”

Persua hissed at her frozen friend, then she realized she was standing in shadow. She turned—and screamed.

“Monster!”

Calruz stared down at her as Claudeil and Toriska backed away from the giant. Minotaurs were a rare sight, and most of them had never seen one before. Calruz glanced at Persua, then jerked a thumb.

“You. Runners. Your presence is clearly not wanted or needed. Leave.”

The Street Runners exchanged one glance and then shifted out of the way. Calruz snorted in contempt and brushed by them.

Persua made a disgusted face and pinched at her nose as he passed by. But when one of the female mages glared at her, she shrank back as well. Garia saw a woman with strange, exotic features—pointed ears—and realized she was staring at a half-Elf!

There was an unspoken difference in power between the Runners and the Adventurers. The Street Runners stared at Persua, but she took one look at the Horns of Hammerad and backed away.

“Strange friends you have, Ryoka.”

She called out as she backed away. Persua stepped back—and tripped as the half-Elf accidentally locked feet with hers. Claudeil caught her, and Persua turned white.

“You—”

“Leave it, Persua. They’re Silver-ranks. Come on.”

Without a word, Persua hurried away. One of the men right behind Calruz, with a mustache, gave the sniggering half-Elf an exasperated glare, but the others looked either approving or didn’t care. And then?

They sat down. Suddenly, half a dozen adventurers were at Ryoka’s table, carefully avoiding her feet, gathering around. They were all wearing armor or robes of high-quality cloth. The warriors standing behind Calruz wore shining chainmail, and the mages carried glowing staves and a wand that gave off ethereal fiery sparks.

That last bit was especially concerning to the innkeeper, who nervously eyed the wand, but he didn’t make any vocal objections. The tall, mustached Human warrior standing next to Calruz nodded at Ryoka and gave her a friendly smile.

“Ryoka Griffin? We’re part of the adventuring party the Horns of Hammerad. You bailed us out of a tough situation last week. Do you mind if we sit?”

Ryoka stared up at the adventuring party. She didn’t appear overly impressed. But then, her face was still sweating with pain.

“Looks like you already are. Glad you made it. What—what do you want? Sit down already; you’re blocking my light.”

The vice-captain blinked. He looked uncertain, but the Minotaur laughed.

“Hah! Spirited! It is good to see that in a Human at last!”

He stuck out a massive, gauntleted hand.

“I am Calruz of the Beriad. We have met before. I lead the Horns of Hammerad, an adventuring party in these parts. I am in your debt, Ryoka Griffin.”

Ryoka blinked in the face of this direct approach. She paused and then reluctantly nodded, shaking Calruz’s hand. She tried to smile—but her leg shifted, and her lips turned into a scowl of pain and suppressed agony.

“Fine. Go ahead.”

Immediately, the Horns of Hammerad pulled up chairs and another table to sit next to Ryoka and Garia. Calruz had to sit perched in his chair, which creaked ominously beneath him, but seemed happy enough.

Once all the adventurers were seated, a barmaid approached, and they ordered drinks and food. Ryoka wasn’t hungry and she had leftovers of her last meal, and Garia, awestruck by the company, was too shy to eat.

In between the barmaids bustling around and delivering drinks and food, the vice-captain leaned forwards and addressed Ryoka.

“We owe you a debt of gratitude for that delivery you did for us a week ago. Without it, we’d all have been killed by that damned Lich. Thanks to you, though, we managed to kill it and recover a lot of magical artifacts. Ceria’s got a new set of mage robes she owes all to you.”

One of the female mages nodded and gestured at her clothing. She was wearing a dark blue set of robes embroidered with glowing golden sigils around the hem and edges of the rich cloth.

“I bought this with a bunch of the gold we got. The Lich was mostly carrying magical reagents in a bag of holding, by the by. If it was artifacts, we’d have fought over a staff. Unfortunately, it was just rare alchemical ingredients. Some [Alchemist] in Pallass snapped it up, so I got some fancy robes I’d been eying. And they’re pristine, so watch the drink, Calruz.”

It seemed foolish to bring such expensive clothing into an inn, but Ryoka noticed that when Calruz accidentally splattered the dress while reaching for a tankard, the liquid simply ran down the cloth and onto the ground. She was immediately impressed and wondered how much the magical cloth cost.

Garia looked around the table, wide-eyed.

“I just heard that Ryoka was doing a delivery to the Ruins. Was it that helpful?”

One of the warriors snorted.

“Delivery? Hah! She charged right past the Lich that had us pinned down and dropped the potions off right in the center of the battlefield! He was casting fireballs and lightning around her, but she even drew his fire as she left—gave us a chance to regroup!”

Ryoka shifted uncomfortably as Garia gaped at her. The problem with being in an inn was that other people were listening. Already, she could tell patrons at the other tables were listening in on their conversation. She shrugged.

“Just doing my job.”

“Your job? No other Runner would have pulled off a feat like that. You saved our lives. I thought we were responsible for you getting hurt at first—but it took us a while to track you down.”

She was having a hard time meeting the earnest vice-captain’s eyes. Ryoka shrugged and picked at her ham as he continued.

“Without the potions, the best we could have hoped for would be a retreat where we didn’t lose too many of our party. In the worst-case scenario, we’d have lost over half of our group, and that’s if the Lich didn’t follow us.”

Calruz nodded.

“Instead, we managed to break that damn skeleton’s head in. The treasure we recovered more than made up for the expedition. And while the rest of our group is still healing from the battle, we’re here to repay the debt we owe.”

Ryoka raised her eyebrows. Minotaurs. Honor? They didn’t seem to go together, but either Calruz was an exception or Minotaurs had quite a strong sense of right and wrong.

The vice-captain cleared his throat awkwardly.

“We expected to meet you again since we heard you were a popular Runner around here. But when we heard about your injury, we decided to drop by.”

Garia looked surprised. It was a long way from the Ruins of Albez to Celum for someone who wasn’t a Runner.

“You came all the way here just to do that?”

Calruz nodded impatiently.

“Of course. What does distance matter? But let us introduce ourselves properly. Ceria, introduce yourself.”

He poked the female mage at his side, and she jumped and glared at the Minotaur. The mage nodded to Ryoka and Garia. She was wearing a hood indoors, which was presumably bad manners, but as she removed it, they realized why and Ryoka got her first clear look at her.

Her ears were slightly pointed, and although she appeared Human, this mage seemed subtly different from her companions. Ryoka noticed her skin was—rather than being paler, appeared subtly more vibrant. It was as if her body were simply realer and more vivid than the rest of the world. It was a slight thing but grew more noticeable the longer Ryoka stared.

Her eyes tracked down to the young woman’s face. Again, her features were beautiful, but not simply aesthetically. They possessed another dimension she couldn’t explain that added to the exotic nature of the mage’s face. Ryoka saw that her eyes were pale yellow but made no comment.

The mage stuck out one hand, and Ryoka took it. She wasn’t an Elf. But she wasn’t Human either.

Half-Elf. Her eyes lit up, and she smiled after elbowing Calruz hard.

“Ceria Springwalker. Village of the Spring, from Terandria. A long way from home, and technically, a student of Wistram. Ice-magic specialist and the only common sense in this crazy group.”

“…Ryoka Griffin. City Runner, I guess.”

“I’m Garia Strongheart. From around Celum. Pleased to meet you.”

“Likewise.”

The rest of the company introduced themselves, but Ryoka was still thinking about Ceria. She shook hands mechanically, impassively nodding as the vice-captain expressed his admiration of how she’d saved them. She’d already forgotten his name.

“Enough of this.”

Calruz snapped impatiently as soon as the introductions were done. He pointed down towards Ryoka’s leg as it stuck out awkwardly.

“We didn’t come here to chat. We’re honor-bound to repay our debt, which is why we’re here. And you’re injured. How’d that happen?”

“Got run over by a cart.”

“What?”

The adventurers looked at Ryoka in frank disbelief.

“Getting run over by a cart I’d believe of normal people, but a Runner? I thought you lot were fast on your feet.”

Ryoka shrugged unhelpfully and stared at her plate. Uncertainly, Garia cleared her throat.

“It wasn’t—exactly an accident.”

She turned red as the Horns of Hammerad focused their attention on her. Calruz tapped a finger on the table.

“Explain, please.”

“Well, I don’t know how to say it, but Ryoka sort of broke an unspoken rule in the Runner’s Guild. She did this delivery and made a lot of folks mad—”

“—And they decided to run her over with a cart?”

The vice-captain stared incredulously at Garia.

“Are you serious?”

She felt their stares, like she was mad, and Garia desperately took a longer drink of water.

“It was a wagon, not a cart. Lot heavier. And I didn’t know anything about it! Fals would have stopped it—most of us didn’t know anything until it happened. I found Ryoka at the [Healer]’s…the rest of the Runner’s Guild was horrified. This was the work of Persua’s friends. Not that anyone can prove it. They say it was just an accident and Ryoka tripped.”

Garia jumped as the mug in Calruz’s hand cracked and shattered in his grip. He angrily shoved the glass pieces aside and gritted his teeth.

“What a pathetic, cowardly lot. I’d challenge them all to an honor duel in a moment if I had cause. Didn’t you call for the Watch, at least? That’s how you do it in Izril—what about truth spells?”

Garia just shook her head.

“Persua says it was an accident. She says the Guildmaster investigated it and that’s that.”

That had been part of why Fals and everyone else weren’t doing anything. Ryoka was white with fury.

“She lied.”

“But they were truth spells, Ryoka. We…”

The half-Elf, Ceria, interrupted calmly. She leaned forwards and tapped on the table for Garia’s attention.

“Did you see them administer the truth spells?”

Garia shook her head.

“No—could you fake them?”

“I could. With enough help. Sounds like this is politics. Bad politics and a shady Guildmaster.”

“That’s a scurrilous accusation, Ceria. Don’t go throwing that around.”

The vice-captain looked nervous, and Calruz’s face darkened, but Ceria just raised her hands.

“It’s just a theory. But who’re you going to believe? The City Runner who saved our life with a mysterious broken leg or…well, don’t pull out your axe, Calruz. We don’t do honor duels here, and that lot would run to First Landing if you looked at them sideways. It sounds like there’s quite a lot of politics in the Runner’s Guild—and dangerous politics at that if this is what happens to people who disobey.”

The other adventurers murmured and grunted in disgust.

“Runners.”

“Money grubbing backstabbers.”

“Barely worth the coin we spend to hire them. And for the rates they charge, I could buy a new sword!”

The vice-captain just sighed.

“The Adventurer’s Guild has bad ones too, like former [Bandits]. Hunt, stop spitting on the floor. This Runner’s Guild must be riddled with bad Runners, though. We’ll remember that if we need help.”

Garia looked like she wanted to object to the insults, but she didn’t dare. Ryoka was interested.

“You don’t like Runners?”

One of the warriors shook his head. That one, Hunt, had a scar on his forehead and pursed his lips to spit again—but Calruz glowered at him, and he swallowed before speaking.

“You, we like. And your friend here doesn’t seem bad. But the rest of your lot are worthless pieces of waste as far as we’re concerned.”

“We’re not all bad.”

Garia protested weakly. The vice-captain and the mages shook their heads.

“You don’t understand, uh, Miss Garia was it? I’m sure you City Runners do a good job for civilians. But adventurers? Most Runners don’t do deliveries to battlefields, and some of the ones that do only deliver after the battle ends. We could be in serious trouble, but your people won’t approach until all the monsters are gone. And even then, we have to pay triple—sometimes five times as much just for deliveries to areas we’ve already cleared.”

Another woman nodded.

“Besides, Runners are only concerned about their pay, not anything else. They won’t stop to help even in emergencies unless we pay them. Even adventurers have more integrity than that.”

The Horns of Hammerad grumbled, but at least their ire wasn’t directed directly towards Garia and Ryoka. Ceria eyed the dispirited Garia and cleared her throat.

“That’s not to say all Runners are bad. I know a lot of you deliver goods quickly and for reasonable rates. It’s just that there are quite a few bad Runners in your Guilds, especially the ones that we have to deal with.”

She nodded at Ryoka.

“Case in point, your leg.”

Calruz snorted angrily as he grabbed another mug from a scared barmaid.

“This is intolerable. A good Runner shouldn’t be crippled. Ceria, Sostrom. Can’t you do something?”

Ceria eyed Ryoka’s leg as the other [Mage] with a long wisp of black hair he kept brushing out of his hair—it ran down to his chin—shook his head. She rolled her eyes.

“What are we, Level 50? Calruz, healing magic is the stuff of [Archmages]. No chance a [Mage] can…hm. Well, it’s not anything ice-magic has anything to do with, so I’m useless, and so is Sostrom.”

The wispy-haired [Mage] raised a hand and looked embarrassed.

“If Ceria says so, I agree. I’m self-taught, and she’s Wistram.”

He said it like it mattered, and the half-Elf blushed slightly and raised a hand as if to demure. Then she frowned, thinking, but Calruz turned away and grunted at the rest of the table.

“So? What about a healing potion? How good was that [Healer]? We have [Bone Healers] in the House of Minos well above the grade of local ones. Although even I can set a broken bone.”

The vice-captain rolled his eyes.

“Everything’s better in your home. Go swim to the House of Minos and bring one back, Calruz.”

Now, Ryoka was regretting not remembering his name, because the Minotaur turned red and glared back at his vice-captain. And the Minotaur, who was the size of the largest Humans to ever exist—got a steady glare in return, which had to take some backbone. Two faintly purple eyes glowered at him before everyone turned back to Ryoka. Garia had a question.

“Is it just a broken bone?”

Ryoka shook her head and grimaced.

“Bone’s shattered. Splinters are in the flesh.”

All the people sitting at the table—and in earshot of the conversation—winced. Ceria, however, just nodded to herself and put a finger to her lips.

“I thought so. If they were trying to hurt you, they had to injure you badly enough that you wouldn’t be able to recover so easily.”

“Why don’t healing potions work? They fix people with stab wounds up in seconds. Why not bones?”

Ceria shrugged.

“Healing potions just accelerate the body’s natural healing. But this is far too complicated for a potion to fix. Maybe a high-grade one…worth a few hundred or thousand gold pieces. But that’s out of anyone’s pay unless we were Gold-ranks or Miss Ryoka were a Courier. In situations like this, time or magic is the only solution. Either that or a high-level [Healer], and the cost is hundreds of gold too. Let alone getting to one.”

Deathly silence fell over the table. Calruz was grimacing darkly, and the vice-captain reluctantly shook his head at him.

“Too bad.”

Ryoka pushed her chair back and stood up. She paused and winced as her bad foot touched the ground, but then began limping towards the stairwell. Garia, distressed, called out.

“Where are you going, Ryoka?”

The other girl didn’t look around.

“Sleep. I’m tired.”

Instantly, the vice-captain stood up.

“In that case, allow me to help you up the stairs.”

Ryoka eyed the stairwell and looked back at him.

“I’ve got it.”

“I insist. Please, let me—”

“No.”

The vice-captain hesitated. He was looking from the steep stairwell to Ryoka’s splinted and bandaged leg. She set her jaw stubbornly.

“I don’t need help.”

“But—”

“Piss. Off.”

Ryoka brushed off his hands and began dragging herself up the stairs. She had a method for it; she walked backwards up the stairs so she didn’t have to move her bad leg more than necessary. It was awkward and cumbersome, but the look in her eyes dared anyone to give her a hand.

Crestfallen, the vice-captain returned to the table and sat down. The other warrior patted him on the back. Garia awkwardly apologized.

“Sorry. She’s just—unfriendly.”

“And in a lot of pain. It’s already forgiven.”

The man nodded understandingly, and both he and Garia smiled—until Calruz spoke up.

“I like her.”

Everyone looked at Calruz. The Minotaur was watching Ryoka with approval as she swung herself up the stairs.

“She reminds me of females of my kind. Fiery. The ones who would stab any male that offends. Much better than the simpering Human ones I keep meeting.”

He stood up. The vice-captain eyed him worriedly. Ceria leaned forwards and poked Calruz hard in the back.

“Simpering Human…? You mean our few fans? People who flirt with you? Name me one simpering adventurer. Don’t bother her, Calruz. What are you going to do, seduce her into bed and re-break that leg? She’s not a Minotauress either, and you have all the charm of a rock covered with moss.”

He snorted dismissively.

“Bah. All that’s needed is courage and spirit to win her over.”

He knocked his chair back and walked over to the stairwell. The vice-captain looked like he wanted to say something, but lost the initiative. Calruz called over his shoulder.

“Don’t wait for me. I’ll find you at the Guild later.”

The remaining adventurers watched Calruz ascending the stairs and muttered amongst themselves.

“Should we stop him?”

“If we do, it’ll be a fight. You know what happens when he loses his temper.”

“Another destroyed inn? We’ll lose all the money we just earned!”

The vice-captain’s eyes narrowed. He drained his mug and stood up.

“This is unacceptable. I’m going up there.”

Ceria grabbed him by the shoulder.

“Calm down, Gerial. He’s all about honor. He’ll just annoy her.”

He glared at her.

“You’re letting him go? Are you mad?”

She shook her head.

“Calruz isn’t an idiot. He knows the law. He’ll go if he isn’t wanted, but that’s not what I meant. Ryoka Griffin can take care of herself. Or don’t you remember why we’re here?”

He hesitated, but then everyone downstairs heard Calruz’s unmistakable bass rumble. From downstairs, Garia could hear Ryoka’s annoyed voice. She hadn’t known Ryoka long, but Garia knew her well enough to guess what she was saying.

Garia started biting at her nails as Calruz’s voice rose and he made what sounded like an attempted joke. Ryoka snapped something, but he kept talking.

Uncertainly, Garia stood up. None of the adventurers stopped her as she walked to the stairs and looked up. Both Human and Minotaur were standing outside her room, arguing. Well, Ryoka was arguing while Calruz was…flirting.

Which was a mistake, Garia knew. She heard Ryoka’s voice as she snapped at Calruz.

“Get out.”

He said something in reply, and she pushed at him. Since he was wearing armor and outweighed her by at least two hundred pounds, he didn’t move. Calruz captured Ryoka’s hand in his own. Garia saw Ryoka’s eyes narrow.

The patrons of the inn downstairs clearly heard the crack and the bellow of pain from Calruz. From her position by the stairs, Garia saw and heard Ryoka punch the Minotaur in the face and then saw the Calruz’s form overbalance on the top of the stairs. She watched in slow motion as the massive figure of the Minotaur reeled back from the blow. He grabbed at the wall, but the wood splintered as it broke under his weight.

If. If Calruz hadn’t insisted on wearing plate armor. If Ryoka hadn’t hit him quite as hard. If the inn was newer and wasn’t so old. But there were no ifs. Calruz toppled down the stairs in a terrific crash of metal on wood, splintering the stairwell and smashing the floorboards on the ground where he landed.

Everyone stared at the fallen Minotaur as he stared up at the ceiling. Half of the inn’s patrons were already making for the doors, while the other half waited for the ensuing bloodbath.

At the top of the stairs, Ryoka raised her middle finger, flipped the prone Minotaur off, and then limped into her room. The door slammed behind her.

Calruz blinked up as the remaining pieces of the stairwell fell down around him and the innkeeper screamed in horror. He stared bemusedly up at Garia and the rest of his adventuring party. Then he grinned.

“Strong. I like her quite a lot.”





1.33 R


As soon as she slammed the door shut, Ryoka collapsed against her bed. Static seemed to crawl over her eyes, and roaring filled her ears.

Pain. It was coming back.

She would have lain there forever, but the pain made her move. There was only one relief.

Ryoka staggered over to a chest at the foot of her bed. She fumbled at it and realized it was locked. Key. Where was the damn key?

The static was everywhere, and the pain was getting worse. Ryoka had just finished opening the lock when she gagged and nearly threw up. It hurt.

Inside the chest was a roll of odd bandages and several green potions. Ryoka instantly grabbed one and popped the cork.

Sitting with her back against the bed, she stretched out her bad leg as far as she was able. The bandages were red with blood now, and the flesh was beginning to puff up. She’d pushed too far.

Gingerly, blacking out with pain, Ryoka poured the green liquid over her leg and tried not to scream. But the effects were instantaneous.

The pain—vanished. For an instant, a wonderful instant, all was well. Ryoka watched in blissful peace as the swelling around her leg faded, and below the bandages, the broken skin and torn flesh closed.

But it didn’t last. After only a few seconds, pain started to return to the area. Dreadful, biting agony.

The bones. The bits of shattered bones that couldn’t be properly healed. They cut into her flesh and stopped the healing. Her flesh regrew—then grew into the splinters, cut itself open again.

Ryoka stared down at her leg. It hurt, but far less now, as the flesh regrew. At least, for the moment. She had a few hours to half a day, depending on what she did to her leg, before her flesh would tear and—

The bandages were now completely bloody, but Ryoka didn’t dare change them. They were the only things keeping the rest of her leg on her body.

Magic. She sensed it in the cloth bindings. They’d been what—ten gold coins? More expensive than the healing potions, even. But they had magic in the stitching, or so the [Healer] had claimed. And she felt it. They were the only reason she could move about, let alone keep her leg…intact.

The magic in the bandages provided stability, structure, and stasis. She could actually move about on a leg where she couldn’t feel anything below her knee due to the bindings holding her leg in place. And so long as she applied a healing potion every few hours, she could keep the damage from her leg at bay.

But eventually, the magic always wore off. And then the swelling would begin, and if it kept on too long, the leg would start to rot.

Magic bandages and healing potions. Ryoka thumped her head back against the footrest of her bed. They could barely keep her injuries in check, but not heal them. What they were really doing was buying time. Time, until she could find a way to heal herself—

Or lose the leg.

She couldn’t feel it anymore. Rather, it was the broken stump just below her kneecap that screamed agony at her each time she agitated it. But her foot and lower leg?

Nothing.

The [Healer] had told her it was still attached, still living flesh so long as she kept healing it with a potion, but it wasn’t about to start healing on its own. It was too badly damaged.

Maybe if there were a surgeon, one from her world, they could have realigned the bones and connected them with metal rods. If she’d been in a hospital, she would have had a chance. But here?

Ryoka put her face in her hands. Garia kept suggesting better [Healers] or treated her injuries as something that would heal given time. But Ryoka didn’t have any time left.

She didn’t have any gold left. She had spent it all—ten gold coins for bandages, healing potions—all the money she’d been earning as a Runner?

Now she wished she’d taken the gold coin from Magnolia. But even if she had—Ryoka Griffin stared blankly at the memory of the encouraging Horns of Hammerad. She felt guiltier now about punching Calruz, but a helpless fury rose in her chest. They didn’t understand. It wasn’t their fault—but she wanted to scream at them. Instead, it came out in a whisper.

“What do you think splintered bone means?”

Garia didn’t get it. But then she hadn’t seen Ryoka’s leg in the moments afterwards. She hadn’t seen how it wasn’t attached, wasn’t solid anymore. The adventurers understood.

Crushed bone. Splintered bone. Not a break or a fracture. It wasn’t like joining two pieces back together. Ryoka’s right leg was a mass of bone splinters without a chance of reattaching on their own.

Medically, the answer was simple. Until the modern era, there would have been no chance any other way. And even then—her legs wouldn’t have ever been the same. Ryoka knew what had to be done. They’d told her as she sat in shock as the [Healer] poured potions on her leg and tried to save her flesh.

Amputation. Either that or find a [Healer] hundreds of miles north with the ability to save her leg.

For a while, she’d hoped it was just her imagination. She’d bought the bandages from the [Healer], scraped together all the money she’d earned so far to buy enough healing potions to last until now, and prayed that her leg would start to heal. But each day passed with blood and pain and no relief.

No one could help her. Ryoka knew that. Garia cared, and even the Horns of Hammerad had stopped by. But what could they do? A hundred—no, hundreds of gold coins. Why make them worry? Why waste energy reassuring them with useless words?

So Ryoka pretended not to worry and did everything herself. Because of pride. Because she didn’t want to appear weak—because that in itself was weakness.

Because there was nothing anyone could do to help her.

Ryoka rested her head against her arm. Pain. Cut it away. They said it would be quick. No. But it was the only choice. She had—three healing potions left. Enough for a day or two. And then she’d be out of money and out of time. Unless she could pay. But she had no money.

Well, she knew someone who had thousands, tens of thousands of gold coins, didn’t she? Of course. And it could be done. There was still a chance.

But the cost—

Ah, the cost.

Ryoka closed her eyes. She tried not to let any tears seep out. Her legs. That was the cost. And she still wasn’t sure if it was worth her leg. She’d thought about it long and hard. And she still wasn’t sure. But she wanted to know the cost. And to do that, she had to bargain.

So what Ryoka was really doing, what she was really thinking as she sat in the wet puddle of the healing potion and blood was nothing. Nothing. She could worry or fret, and she was afraid and in pain, but there was nothing she could really do. All she was doing, in truth, behind everything, was waiting.

Waiting, unable to do more than suffer. Clinging to hope that—what? Someone would produce a magical potion, a real one, and fix everything? Hope that the [Healer] found her and said they had some kind of idea?

Wait until her potions ran out and she had to face a world where she’d never walk again? All because of Persua. All because of a stupid delivery.

Ryoka buried her face in her pillow. It wasn’t fair. It was never fair, she knew, but this?

Why me? Why like this?

It wasn’t fair.



——



It was evening by the time Garia managed to excuse herself from the inn and make her way back to the Runner’s Guild. By that point, she’d already imbibed quite a lot of liquid, most of it alcoholic.

Garia had an extremely high tolerance for alcohol, so she only stumbled every now and then as she jogged towards the Runner’s Guild. She wasn’t intending on making a delivery, of course; that would be dangerous in the fading light even without being drunk, but she wanted to pick up her payment for the week. She was running low on money after insisting she pay for her meal.

She’d left the rest of the Horns of Hammerad in the semi-destroyed inn, still drinking and talking about how they could help Ryoka. It was strange. Garia had only heard of the Horns as one of the up-and-coming adventurer teams, but she hadn’t really believed the rumors about them being honor-bound like their leader.

Well, everyone knew that Minotaurs were supposed to be honorable, but that was hard to believe when you saw one up close. A Minotaur’s word was as good as a [Knight]’s supposedly, but how did you square that with their cow heads and fierce tempers? But Calruz hadn’t been overly violent—he’d even paid for all the damage he’d caused.

It was strange. The number of non-Humans Garia had seen, let alone met, she could probably count on both her hands. This far north, you didn’t see any of the other races, not even Drakes or Gnolls. But Calruz had seemed so—so—Human.

And he liked Ryoka. And that was something Garia wasn’t going to think about. Instead, she was going to open the door to the Runner’s Guild without falling on her face and walk inside.

Most of the Runners glanced up and then away, ignoring Garia as she entered. She wasn’t particularly powerful within the Runner’s Guild, but she was liked well enough that no one bothered her. That was what Garia preferred. Being unnoticed was safest.

Garia noticed a commotion occurring around the receptionist’s counter, which made her heart sink. The unnoticed part of her reputation also meant she wouldn’t be helped until they sorted out what was going on. Glumly, Garia went to sit down at one of the tables when she heard someone calling her name.

“Garia! How’s my favorite City Runner?”

Garia’s heart skipped a beat and then started going into overdrive as she recognized the voice. Fals. She turned around and gave him what she hoped was an annoyed look.

“I bet you say that to every Runner, Fals.”

“Only the ones I like.”

Fals walked over and smiled at Garia. He was handsome and tall, and Garia could see several female Runners glaring at her as he approached. She tried not to smile back too quickly.

“Are you finished with your deliveries for the day?”

“Yup. Nothing too special; I did a few trips to Lindol and back, but that’s it. How about you? Taking a late-night request?”

Garia shook her head.

“I’m just collecting payment. What’s with all the panic, though?”

She pointed to the group of Runners and staff of the Runner’s Guild who were standing around in a cluster at the counter, arguing and looking panicked. Fals made a face.

“You won’t believe this, but for the last few days, Lady Magnolia’s been asking for a delivery. Trouble is, she only wants one Runner to do it. Guess who?”

Garia didn’t even need to think.

“Ryoka. Oh. And what did the Guild tell her?”

“Oh, I don’t know the details…”

Fals waved a hand self-deprecatingly, but that was just an act. Garia had no doubt he knew exactly what had been said and probably had a part in shaping the message. He was one of the most influential Runners in the entire region around Celum, and the local Guildmasters listened to him.

That might not mean much further north with big cities like Invrisil, but it mattered here. She just wished—he could help Ryoka, but no one could, no [Healer] in any of the cities she’d visited.

“The Guild told her Ryoka was indisposed. We kept offering replacement Runners, but Magnolia kept insisting that she only wanted Ryoka. And now…well, it sounds like she came in person and demanded some answers just a few minutes ago. I was going to see what happened myself. Want to listen?”

Garia hesitated. It probably wasn’t wise to put herself in the spotlight—but then again, Fals was the one in charge. So she nodded and followed him across the room.

Fals whistled as he passed the board full of delivery requests. He stopped and pointed to one unmarked request Garia recognized.

“Wow. Look at that unmarked request. Whoever’s posted it is offering twenty gold coins for a delivery. No, wait, twenty gold to take the delivery. ‘More upon negotiation’? Sounds like a trap. Or a scam, but who’d fall for that?”

Garia peered at it.

“It’s the same one I saw a week ago. I told Ryoka only a Courier would take that. Was I wrong? I thought maybe you might…”

Fals shook his head instantly.

“Are you kidding? I still want to live. Didn’t you see the location? The High Passes. That’s a death trap for anyone. I might have some levels on you, but you’re right—it’s Couriers or a stupid City Runner.”

“It’s not possible at all? Even for you?”

Her admiring look was returned by Fals’ mock-glare.

“Even for me. For any Runner who takes it. I hope no one’s stupid enough to head out there, but with that reward—I think we might lose a few. I’ve been telling all the hotheads not to try it, and they seem to be listening for now.”

“Think a Courier will come by?”

That made him pause. The request really was an odd mix of appealing to low-level Runners and…

“Dunno. Maybe a Courier will do it if the reward keeps rising. But it’s sort of…cheap for them to risk getting hurt. It’s more likely the one who posted it will give up after a month or two.”

He shrugged.

“But frankly, even if they doubled the reward, no sane Runner would risk a delivery like that. Profit’s important, but our lives are worth way more.”

Garia remembered something one of the adventurers had said. She frowned.

“Fals? I know you’re one of our best Runners, but why aren’t there any older Runners than you? You’re only twenty-two—”

“Twenty-three. I’m getting old, Garia. Please don’t rub it in.”

She blushed and tried not to stammer.

“—Twenty-three, then. But why aren’t there any other Runners? I know a lot of us die or get hurt, but surely there should be some more, right?”

Fals considered her question. He sighed and raked his hand through his blonde locks.

“We don’t have many experienced Runners because no one who does this job lives very long. We’re the only people crazy enough to deliver. Most folks change classes after they earn enough.”

“I heard people say Runners only care about money.”

Fals eyed her sternly.

“What kind of people have you been talking to, Garia?”

He didn’t wait for her response.

“Never mind. Okay, sure, a lot of Runners are interested in the bottom line. But isn’t that normal? Adventurers, shopkeepers, merchants…even nobles care about money. Why shouldn’t we charge what we do and prioritize the best deliveries? We work a tough job! And we risk our lives every day, running from monsters, dealing with bad weather, natural disasters…it’s enough to make most folk quit within their first week.”

He thumped at his chest.

“But we—we’re Runners. We don’t quit! Everyone who makes it past a year is a real Runner, Garia. We’re the people who keep the cities—no, the entire world connected. Without us, nothing would get done on time. So if people call us money-grubbers, well, let them. We’ve got our own honor, and we deserve every coin we get, am I right?”

His words lit a spark in Garia’s heart and within the other Runners in earshot. She nodded enthusiastically as other Runners called out to Fals.

“That’s our lead Runner!”

“No wonder you’re the best in the region!”

Persua appeared out of nowhere and purred at Fals. Garia jumped as the skinny girl smiled and fussed over him with her gaggle of Street Runners, edging Garia away. Someone elbowed her—hard. Toriska, paying Garia back for speaking up earlier. The [Farmer]’s daughter retreated as Fals was surrounded. He never noticed the jab as he smiled with a bit of reserve.

“No wonder they call you Fleetfoot Fals!”

He grinned and shook his head.

“That’s an old nickname, guys. And anyways, Ryoka’s faster. I wonder if she’s got some sort of Skill?”

Persua’s face soured. Garia scratched at her head.

“Now that you mention it…she’s never mentioned what level she is. She must be high-level, though.”

“Well, she may be quick, but she’s not running now, is she? Besides, she’s so unpleasant. Who’d want a Runner who never smiles like her?”

Garia winced as Persua glared at her from behind Fals. For his part, Fals made a face and took a deliberate step next to Garia, preventing her from being shunted further away.

“Right. About that. I know Ryoka broke a few rules recently, but she is a good runner. And we need all the Runners we can get. I hope the [Healer] can sort her out, I really do.”

He smiled at Persua, and the younger girl sighed and turned red as he met her eyes.

“So…Persua. I don’t want you or your friends to bother Ryoka again, okay?”

She sulked and pouted, but then gave Fals a sickly smile. He returned it with a slight wince that she didn’t appear to notice.

“Anything for you, Fals. Not that we did anything to Ryoka in the first place or anything. She just happened to have an…accident.”

“Well, let’s not have any more of those, are we clear? We’re all on the same team, right?”

Fals raised his voice a bit, lightly, and he met Persua’s gaze, and Claudeil and Toriska nodded along. Yet Garia saw Fals’ eyes fix on Persua—then glance away.

The other Runners nodded and voiced their agreement. Fals went around the room shaking hands and slapping Runners on the back. He eventually managed to get Persua to clear off by hinting that she and her cronies smelled sweaty, and finally, he and Garia were left alone again. He sighed but smiled at Garia.

He had to know she’d done it. And how badly Ryoka was hurt. And that was all…? He glanced at Garia and shook his head slightly as he came over.

“See what I mean, though? We can’t be divided. Us Runners have to work together.”

Garia glared at Fals. She whispered out of the corner of her mouth.

“You know she was behind it. Everyone does. She probably lied on the truth stones!”

He looked uncomfortable. Fals kicked at the ground with his expensive leather shoes and sighed. He combed his hair with one hand as he addressed Garia.

“Ryoka broke a rule. They shouldn’t have gone that far, but I did warn her. We’ve got to work together, Garia. Even if one of us is faster, it’s better to share the wealth rather than compete. You’re new, but you understood that. Ryoka didn’t and now—well, now we’ve got trouble with Lady Magnolia and we’re down a City Runner. Besides—Persua did what she did. I don’t want you being her next target.”

Or him? Then Garia realized how Fals always gave Persua the time of day might not be because he liked everyone. Was he—

Afraid of her? Fals watched Persua carefully as she sniffed at an armpit and shoved Claudeil, who offered her a vial of scented oil. She waved back with a huge smile. Fals returned it before giving Garia a serious look for a moment.

He was. Because maybe he feared she’d break his leg too. This didn’t sit well with Garia. She grimaced and stared hard at Fals. But when he met her gaze with a rueful smile and shrug, she colored and looked away. She muttered at the ground.

“I still don’t like it. Persua’s crazy. Ryoka won’t be able to run for at least a year! Even with potions to help her heal! Have you seen her leg?”

Fals hesitated.

“I heard it was just a bad break that the [Healers] can’t fix right away. Is it worse than that?”

Garia looked miserable as she shook her head.

“I don’t know. I’m no expert, and she’s got it wrapped in layers of bandages. They look magical though, and—and I met a mage who said that the only way she’d get it healed was to pay hundreds of gold coins to a high-level [Healer].”

He hissed through his teeth.

“That’s—no! I can’t believe it! They told me they wouldn’t—”

Garia interrupted Fals.

“You knew? You knew and—I can’t believe you, Fals!”

Garia’s voice rose incredulously. She advanced on Fals, making fists with her hands. He raised his hands defensively as he backed away towards the counter.

“I had no choice! Look, you know what Persua and her friends are like. I told them not to do anything drastic, but even if I’d stopped them, some other Runners would have organized something. You know the rules, Garia. Remember Perial when he broke them?”

Garia remembered Perial. She didn’t remember what he’d done wrong, but she remembered that a bunch of Runners had dropped rusty nails in his path and forced him to run through them.

Fals closed his eyes tightly and then opened them. He looked tired.

“Okay. That changes things. Look, Garia. I’ll—I’ll talk to the Guildmaster after I see it in person. Persua’s gone too far, even if Ryoka broke the rules.”

“That still won’t fix her leg.”

“No, but it’s all I can do. Okay? And I don’t know that any injury would really cost a hundred gold coins for a spell, Garia. I’ll see Ryoka myself, but even if her bones are broken beyond a healing potion’s ability to repair, how bad could it really be?”

“It’s bad.”

“We’ll see. I know a few good [Healers] and even a [Mage] that owes me a favor. If Ryoka’s really hurt that bad, I’ll call in a few favors and get the Guild to help out. She’ll be on her feet by the end of the month, I promise. But can we see what the commotion is?”

Garia nodded. She felt a lot more upbeat with Fals’ promise. He always kept his word. She followed him to the counter as the Runners parted for him. Fals addressed a harried-looking receptionist at the counter.

“What’s going on? Is there more trouble with Magnolia?”

“Trouble? Oh, there’s been trouble alright.”

The receptionist laughed somewhat hysterically. She was Stenei, the [Receptionist] who’d often talked to Ryoka—and it seemed like she’d been called in just to speak to Lady Reinhart. Judging by her expression, that had not been pleasant.

“Lady Magnolia was here just half an hour ago. She came in person to complain to the Guildmaster, but he was out! She wanted to know where Ryoka was, and when she heard she was injured, she was not happy. She even suggested that she might stop ordering through our Guild altogether!”

Garia and Fals stared in horror at the receptionist. Lady Magnolia was one of the Guild’s biggest patrons. Besides that, she was important. Even on the other end of the continent, there were people who would know her name.

“Did she want anything else?”

“She wanted to know where Ryoka was right now. Fortunately, we at least knew her address, so she was somewhat satisfied, but what will we do? If she stops ordering—”

Garia interrupted urgently.

“Wait, she wanted to know where Ryoka was?”

The receptionist blinked at her. Normally, Garia would have been brushed off in an instant, but Fals was with her.

“Yes, she wanted to know.”

“And you told her?”

The receptionist grew defensive at Garia’s accusatory tone.

“What? It’s in the guild’s best interest to keep her happy. If she wants to know where one of our Runners is, we’ll tell her.”

“But she wanted Ryoka! And if she knows where she is, she’ll go and meet her!”

Fals groaned and pulled at his hair. He looked around frantically, but Magnolia was already long gone.

“Have you even met Ryoka? Remember what happened when she met the Guildmaster? She doesn’t respect anyone! If Magnolia shows up, she’ll probably throw her out of her room! Or—or—”

“Punch her.”

Fals turned to Garia.

“No. She wouldn’t do that. No one’s crazy enough to punch—she wouldn’t.”

Garia looked nervous.

“She punched a Minotaur when he tried to invite himself into her room this morning.”

The receptionist and Fals both paled.

“We’ve got to stop her. Or stop Ryoka.”

“Follow me!”

Garia turned and raced out of the Guild, Fals hot on her heels. She wasn’t one for wishes, but Garia hoped that Ryoka would be civil or at least acceptable before they got there. She didn’t have much hope, though.

She knew Ryoka.



——



Lady Magnolia sat in the small, cramped bedroom of The Rat’s Tail, a moderately prosperous inn in the city of Celum. She clearly did not belong there. For one thing, her expensive, patterned, latticed, light pink dress with floral embroidery probably cost more than the inn itself.

But she sat on the rickety chair the innkeeper had personally delivered to Ryoka’s room, looking perfectly content while she chatted with its inhabitant. Behind her, Ressa the head maid stood in one corner of the room, glaring daggers at the poverty, the dirt under the windowsill, and Ryoka herself.

“My dear, I really was shocked to hear of your accident. Won’t you tell me what happened?”

“I got bored and played tag with a cart.”

“You are always full of unique answers, aren’t you, Ryoka? I can’t imagine how you can tell jokes in the face of such an injury.”

Not that Lady Magnolia had actually seen her injury, Ryoka reflected. She was lying on her bed, her bandages wrapped around her leg. Magnolia had walked in on her while she was resting, and Ryoka hadn’t yet unwrapped her protective cushion from her bad leg.

She didn’t know why she was spitting bile. The [Innkeeper] had practically bowed himself into a wall, and everyone was treating Magnolia like, well, a [Lady]. Ryoka felt like she should be grateful anyone cared enough to check on her.

But the agony in her leg made her want to curse everyone away. She tried to sit up, and Lady Magnolia raised a quick hand.

“Lie still, please, Miss Griffin. Ressa, how good are those potions?”

The [Maid] was checking Ryoka’s room. She put down a bottle and shook her head.

“Serviceable. But she’s not going to cure that with potions. The bones’re crushed.”

“Could you set them…?”

“Nope. This would require the best [Healer] the Guild has—or something better. It’s shattered bone in splinters. Whoever did this knew how to stop it from being repaired.”

Ryoka stared sickly at her legs, and the [Maid] actually gave her a sympathetic look. Magnolia Reinhart exhaled.

“Then it was deliberate.”

“Not according to the Guild. The [Guildmaster] himself personally told me what a tragic accident this was. Completely my fault.”

Ryoka had screamed insults at him and thrown everything she could find. She expected Magnolia to take this at face value, but the [Lady] smiled instead.

A cold smile. Ryoka blinked as she saw the green eyes focus on her—and then on Ryoka’s legs.

“Show me your leg, my dear? Ressa can unwrap the bandages just for a moment.”

“It’s…”

“Just for one moment, Miss Ryoka. As a matter of…justice.”

Ryoka stared at her. Then she pointed to the left one.

“Pull the bandages loose there—aah…”

Even unwrapping it a bit made Ryoka feel her flesh begin to part. Ressa was deft—she unwrapped the bandages fast, and Magnolia Reinhart looked down, and Ryoka stared at her legs—then turned her head.

The [Lady] didn’t quite vomit, but a [Maid] held out a bucket—Magnolia Reinhart swallowed calmly.

A leg should not look—flat. Even with the skin regrown, the bones, the very structure of the leg—

“Thank you, Ressa. And thank you, Miss Griffin. Do you need another potion?”

“A bit.”

Ressa poured some on her leg, and Ryoka sat back as it was bound up again. Magnolia Reinhart had not gone dead white, but her lips were pale. She was more composed than Ryoka expected anyone to be after seeing a gruesome injury like that. One of the maids in the inn had seen Ryoka’s leg and fainted.

“So that was the accident the Runner’s Guild informed me of. One leg, crushed by a wagon whose driver did not see you and had no time to stop. Which is fair. How, pray…were you lying down long enough for your leg to be run over?”

“According to the guild, I fell down.”

“That is what their report claimed. The same young woman who broke a local record running gelato to my door—fell with a wagon rolling towards her and never rolled out of the way? Just so I ask your side of the story, did that all happen too fast, Miss Griffin?”

Ryoka looked at Magnolia, and those eyes regarded her. Searching…and Ryoka spoke.

“No. I couldn’t get out of the way. Mostly because my feet were webbed down.”

“I see. And how did you fall to begin with?”

“Someone pushed or tripped me.”

Magnolia Reinhart nodded.

“That would be…Persua Mavva. Among others, yes?”

Ryoka Griffin blinked. Magnolia Reinhart waited, and the City Runner croaked.

“Y-yeah. But she’s been absolved. Investigated, I mean.”

“By Celum’s Guildmaster. No, I quite understand. The Guildmaster—when he arrived—assured me that he had looked into the accident. And it was an accident. And that he had truth stone readings. Ressa, how does Miss Griffin look?”

“Truthful.”

Ressa showed Magnolia the same glowing stone, and Magnolia studied the blue glow.

“Thank you. Well, Miss Ryoka, you are badly hurt. I will not waste your time. I wanted to check on you, and I am sorry that I did not hear of this sooner. I was preoccupied…”

“I didn’t expect you to remember me.”

“No?”

Magnolia raised one eyebrow. Ryoka laughed.

“I’m just a Runner who knows how to make ice cream. Did you want to make more?”

“No, Miss Griffin. I was hoping we’d speak again.”

“Ah. That. Well—I’m sort of laid up. You came all this way because you were curious?”

Curious she was from another world? To Ryoka’s surprise, Magnolia Reinhart’s eyes flashed.

“I won’t deny my curiosity, Miss Griffin. But I hope you would think more of me than that. The Runner’s Guild has clearly misrepresented the truth, and this City Runner has committed a crime. In Celum, which is not ruled by me, but in Izril, which I hold near and dear to my heart, despite its warts and wrinkles. The Runner’s Guild must not be corrupt.”

“Well. They’ve done their investigation, and that’s that.”

Ryoka felt like they were talking in circles. She licked her lips, and Magnolia Reinhart reached out and handed her the refilled canteen of water.

“Not quite. I believe Guildmaster Eterell was a good City Runner in his time. He rose through the ranks, and his current job and class in one of the more central Runner’s Guilds has made him fairly wealthy. Too wealthy, and perhaps too comfortable. Which is why, tomorrow, he will step down from his position. Perhaps, in his advancing years, he will find work starting as a Street Runner. Or some other job. I believe that would be for the best.”

Ryoka Griffin’s lips froze with cool water pressed against them. She turned her head, and Magnolia went on.

“His successor will have to investigate the Guild’s dealings. But as for Miss Mavva—she is a somewhat well-connected City Runner. She and her close friends have more Street Runners in common, though. If she passes the second investigation, regardless, I believe they will have more success with their peers as Street Runners. And the new Guildmaster may suggest they find other modes of work as well.”

“You…what are you talking about?”

Magnolia Reinhart looked at Ryoka with a pleasant smile on her face. But her eyes were sparking with real anger.

“Merely a forecast, Miss Griffin. Consider me a [Weather Mage] of sorts—albeit for people.”

“Why are you…?”

“Whatever do you mean, Miss Griffin?”

The [Lady] gave Ryoka an innocent look as Ressa snorted softly. But not disapprovingly. Magnolia Reinhart stared out Ryoka’s window at the city beyond.

“Are you, perhaps, surprised that anyone might take an interest in wrongdoing? Or deal with the matters themselves? If a Guild rots from within—the city suffers. The region suffers. If I were to find a poison within the veins of Izril, should I ignore it? Monsters, threats. Wrongdoing. Someone must deal with the situation. Don’t you agree?”

She turned to Ryoka, and the young woman laughed at her.

“What about the law? The…Watch? Having some random vigilante doesn’t sound like the system’s working.”

Magnolia’s smile never changed, but the look in her eyes deepened, crossing with something like regret.

“Oh, I wonder where you come from, Miss Griffin, I truly do. The Watch? Who oversees the Watch? Who holds my peers to account? Who should but stop an army, an invading force? Sometimes, Miss Griffin, we make such choices and do what we must.”

Ryoka felt a shiver cross her spine, and Magnolia Reinhart glanced at Ressa—and the ‘[Maid]’ said nothing at all. But then Magnolia blinked, sighed, and fluttered her hands.

“…Until we regret it. These are more peaceful times, Miss Griffin, so we shall simply slap some hands and deal with such troublemakers lightly. Lighter than you would prefer, I’m sure. But you have my word.”

In that moment, Ryoka wasn’t sure if she liked Magnolia or she just found her to be unexpected. But she…more than anyone else Ryoka had met—she looked at Magnolia and said something she had rarely spoken in any world.

“Thank you.”

Magnolia Reinhart shook her head.

“Thanks would go to me if I stopped this from occurring, Miss Griffin. This is just—necessity. Now. I will take a little more of your time. What will happen to your leg? Do the [Healers] have any hope it will mend with time? Better potions?”

Ryoka’s moment of lightness fell away again. She bowed her head.

“No. There’s no chance. Not unless I find some kind of super-healer. Is there one…?”

She looked up, remembering the comment about some Guild’s best [Healer]. But Ressa just coughed.

“He’s about seven hundred miles away and unlikely to…”

Seven hundred miles? Ryoka bowed her head, but Magnolia waved her fingers.

“Yes, yes. I understand the difficulties there. This sounds like it requires top-tier healing. So. A Potion of Regeneration from an older age, a [Healer] beyond compare…hundreds of thousands of gold pieces and months of rehabilitation, even so. But these were unenchanted wagon wheels, weren’t they? In that case—I believe the simplest answer would be the Healer of Tenbault.”

Ryoka had heard that name before. Ressa grimaced.

“She is busy, Lady Reinhart.”

“She always is. But she owes me a favor. And as for the cost—Miss Griffin, I believe you are not without recourse. I happen to have an old…ah, friend. Someone who is capable of casting a spell that will likely heal your leg. [Restoration]. Healing magic, one of the rarest kinds in the world. A Tier 6 spell, in fact.”

Magnolia smiled brightly at her. Ryoka stared blankly at Magnolia, not quite daring to believe what she was hearing. Tier…what was that? Then she remembered what she’d read from an introductory spellbook.

Tier Magic. It stood in stark contrast to the undisciplined magics, whatever that meant. But from what Ryoka had read in her extremely brief introduction to magic, Tiered Magic organized magic in…tiers.

That was to say that a spell capable of being cast by all mages was generally thought of as 1st Tier Magic or 0 Tier Magic, while a spell that was 2nd Tier was more potent, requiring a better mage and longer periods of study to learn it. 3rd Tier magic was generally the bar for most mages, and they would know only one or two spells of that level. Anything higher got into the range of extremely powerful magic, exponentially stronger and just as hard to learn.

That presumably meant that Magnolia’s friend was an incredible mage, but the book had said lower-level mages could cast higher Tier magic with enough practice and time. It also meant this mysterious friend was probably extremely powerful.

“You—you just know someone who has that kind of power? Really? And she’ll just pop over to heal me?”

“My dear. I know everyone and anyone who matters in the north. Nor will she pop over.”

Magnolia sighed.

“…But we can arrange transit and put you ahead on her list. I believe your leg will heal. In which case, we shall resolve all of this.”

It felt like it was all unreal. Ryoka’s head was spinning. Persua—punished. Her leg? Her head rose, and Magnolia gave her a pat on the hand.

“If that all sounds acceptable, we will have you in my carriage within the hour and heading to Tenbault—which is her city. Then I believe you’ll likely need to rest even with that spell, and my mansion is open to you rather than this—colorful inn. Especially for healing, you should have clean bedsheets.”

“And a chamberpot.”

Ressa added. Ryoka croaked.

“I—you’d do that? Why?”

Magnolia psshed.

“Miss Griffin, you did render me the invaluable, nay, indispensable boon of free ice cream. Shouldn’t I repay that kindness? But if you insist—I do hope you and I will have a proper chat while you recover. About where you came from. And how you got here.”

She said that last part so gently Ryoka almost missed it. Then her head rose, and Magnolia was looking her in the eyes.

Green and green, but the forest was swallowing up the emeralds of Ryoka’s gaze.

“I am—exceptionally curious, my dear. If you would be candid, I would be most grateful. Which land do you call home? What useful—tidbits could you share?”

Suddenly, Ryoka felt the walls closing in. She looked at Magnolia Reinhart, and the [Lady] was watching her.

“Wh-what are you talking about?”

“Come now, Miss Griffin. I am not angry. In fact, I believe this was all a great accident. I just need to know—where and who sent you. And how many there are. If this was an accident, all well and good. But if you are a visitor kith and kin from, say, the domain of the Winter Sprites or some other nation—I need to know everything.”

Then Magnolia was looking at her, and the young woman from Earth was frozen in her bed. She felt cold suddenly, even in the sheets.

“I—I don’t know what—”

Earth. Magnolia Reinhart, the Deadly Flower of the North, knew, somehow, she wasn’t from here. And—and she wanted to know…

Ryoka had a flash, suddenly, of the Watch with their spears and the adventurers with their swords and bows holding guns. She looked at Magnolia, a war hero, perhaps, a [Lady] with a lot of connections fascinated with gelato.

And she wondered what that kind of [Lady], even one who believed in justice, would do if she knew how to make a gun.

Magnolia saw Ryoka suddenly tense up.

“My dear. Perhaps I’m wrong. But would you care to elaborate on the situation? Perhaps I am completely wrong and you have a Skill and you’re actually an Izrilian and that would be hilarious.”

She laughed—but she was glancing at Ryoka. At something lying on the bedside table. Ryoka turned her head and went paler still.

Her iPhone was lying there with its worn casing, and Ressa and Magnolia glanced at it. Magnolia continued after a second—

“…But I do safeguard Izril in some small ways. Honesty, Miss Griffin. Just a short chat on the ride there and afterwards. How about it? Do we have a deal?”

She held out a hand, and Ryoka Griffin looked at Magnolia Reinhart’s smiling face. She felt her leg beginning to scream at her again, and she wanted nothing in this world more than the pain to stop. Her hand rose—

And she thought she heard a poem in her head. She saw a flash of gunfire and wondered what would have happened if any historical figure in history had ever been handed an assault rifle or the blueprints for one.

Ryoka Griffin had little moral fiber. She hated authority. She hated a lot of things, including her parents. But she had studied history and modern events, and she looked at Magnolia Reinhart and that outstretched hand. Ryoka Griffin’s mouth went dry.

“No. Not that.”

Magnolia blinked. Her fingers wavered.

“No? Miss Griffin—your leg is in a distressing state. I cannot bear to see you in pain another second. Please, let’s forgo your admittedly successful reticence and mystery. I shall tell the Healer to speak to you then—”

“No. I’ll take the healing—but not tell you—tell you everything. I’ll tell you a bit, okay? But nothing more.”

The [Lady] of House Reinhart blinked at Ryoka.

“I—beg your pardon?”

“How about where I came from? And—twenty questions.”

“Twenty questions?”

“Sure. Ask me any twenty questions and I’ll answer them. How—how about that?”

Ryoka Griffin smiled weakly, and Magnolia Reinhart turned to look at Ressa. She looked back down at Ryoka.

“My dear. The Healer of Tenbault sees less than two thousand patients each year. A large number, to be sure, by some standards, but the cost of visiting her is in the thousands of gold pieces on average—hundreds if you are lucky. The nobility have a hard time visiting her. I believe I should get more than twenty questions.”

“Well—take it or leave it.”

Ryoka smiled at Magnolia, trying to keep her face straight. She saw Magnolia’s mouth open and Ressa’s glare, but she clenched her fists in the sheets. Not guns. Not…not the worst of what Magnolia could learn.

She waited for Magnolia to come up with another offer. Forty questions maybe. But the [Lady] just stared down at Ryoka and shook her head.

“My dear. My dear Ryoka—I have given you a lot of leeway. This accident was not your fault, nor do I take any pleasure in this, but your…what? Principle? Stubbornness? It must end somewhere. No.”

Ryoka saw her step back. The City Runner looked up.

“No? What do you mean?”

“No. I will not negotiate with you. Not questions. Not a deal, Miss Griffin. Candor, complete candor—simply talk to me and the Healer will mend your leg. If not?”

Magnolia folded her hands as she stood in the doorway. She looked at Ryoka, and the young woman stared at her.

“You’re not going to heal me?”

“I am going to mend your leg—but not waste more time, Miss Griffin. Please, I urge you to accept my offer.”

“N-no.”

The [Lady] gave Ryoka an incredulous look, but the young woman was giving her almost the same expression.

“I won’t be bullied into telling you anything.”

“Bullied?”

Magnolia’s voice rose in outrage. She turned to Ressa.

“I—Miss Griffin. I am trying to help you.”

“Then heal me and don’t threaten me.”

Ryoka bared her teeth, and Magnolia Reinhart was lost for words.

“She’s got you there.”

“Ressa, do shut up. Miss Griffin, this is the smallest thing I could ask for. The most necessary thing—please consider.”

“No.”

Ryoka took some joy in seeing Magnolia’s pure, flummoxed shock. The [Lady] stood in the doorway and turned to her silent servants, back to Ryoka—and then she bowed her head.

“Very well, Miss Griffin. You win.”

The City Runner exhaled—but too soon. Magnolia Reinhart slowly put her hand on the doorknob.

“Wh—what are you—”

“I shall keep an open ear for any letter you send. When you change your mind—and I hope for your sake it is soon—contact me.”

Then, politely, regretfully, and without hesitation, Magnolia Reinhart closed the door on Ryoka Griffin. And the young woman stared at the closed door before she began to shout—but Magnolia Reinhart was already walking down the stairs.



——



I’m an idiot. I have to cover my eyes to keep the tears from leaking. I’m such a complete and utter, stubborn idiot.

I should have accepted her offer immediately. No—even if Magnolia wanted me to be her slave or her maid or to work for her for ten years, I would have accepted her offer in a heartbeat.

But she wanted me to tell her the truth. Damn it. Damn her and her insight. That’s the one thing I can’t give her. Ever.

My leg is agony. But my heart is ice. And now that I’ve been given the offer, the path is clear. Two roads stretch out before me, and a world waits upon my choice.

Is that dramatic? It’s too dramatic. But it is true.

Stand up. I need another healing potion. My leg hurts—I need a clear head for it.

I shift to reach for the nightstand. Pain shoots through my bad leg. Three healing potions. Damn it, again. I can’t waste them. Not if—

Well if I refuse, there’s no point to them. They’re weak things, anyways. But they told me a stronger healing potion would start growing each fragment of bone out of my skin, and that would destroy my leg beyond any healing.

Something. Oh. I reach over, cursing my leg, and grip it tightly in one hand. The only thing I really own in this world. It’s useless, without power. At least the earbuds are still attached, but again, useless without electricity.

I look at the piece of plastic and metal lying on the nightstand. Stupid to have it out. Could I trade that, instead? Even if she figures out how to use it, she couldn’t replicate it. Maybe…

No. No, it’s worthless in any case. If there were power left in it, I might be able to make the trade but—no. It’s information she wants. And that price is just too high for me to pay.

“Information.”

The word rots on my tongue. It sounds so stupid, so simple and easy to give away when you say it like that. And it would be simple for me to agree to answer however many questions.

Except that Magnolia can read minds. Or sense untruths. And she’s cunning, smart enough to keep asking questions. If I gave her unlimited answers, she’d have the entire truth eventually.

I could lie. But she’d sense it if I didn’t intend to fulfill my bargain. Trapped, again.

Pride be damned. I’ll go back and beg her if need be. The cost—I’ll think of it later. But even if it means selling part of my soul or my world’s secrets, I will run again.

But…no. I can’t do that. No, never. Because if she asks questions—

If she asks questions, she’ll learn about my world. Good? That’s fine. Even if she knows, can she get there so easily? I don’t think it matters. If someone could travel between worlds so easily, we’d already know about it. Maybe she could, but we have guns and way more technology than she does.

But that’s the catch, isn’t it? We have technology, and if she asks more questions, she’ll know about our world’s technology. Not just things like hygiene or bacteria, but the things that should never be told. Secrets, jumps forward in capability that would make any nation a superpower in an instant.

Gunpowder. Firearms. Germ warfare. Steam power, electrical power, locomotion. Everything from interrogation techniques to how to build a tank or a bomb. Nuclear weapons.

Does it sound stupid to say it like that? I don’t know how to make nukes. But I do know what goes into gunpowder. I aced chemistry class. I know exactly how a turbine works, and I’m pretty damn sure I remember all of the techniques the FBI illegally used on terrorists.

Damn it. It’s a moral choice, isn’t it? Lose my leg or give away the secrets of death and destruction. If it were anyone else, I could lie or tell only small truths. But she can read my damn mind. And I know exactly where to gather all the ingredients of gunpowder. And guns wouldn’t be hard to make, not in this world.

Lady Magnolia. I know nothing about her. Just rumors and that she’s a powerful and influential lady with wealth and connections. Even if she appears nice—especially if she appears nice—I have no way of knowing if she’d use that power to help or harm.

No. It’s simpler than that.

Even if I could trust her, the secret would spread. That’s how it works. She’d want to see a demonstration, and someone would put the pieces together. Ressa, her maid, maybe. Sooner or later, technology would spread. I’d be responsible for bringing guns into the world. And maybe it’s not that far away from that level of technology already but—

“Belfast. Beruit. Phnom Penh. All flesh is grass.”

When I was a girl, I went to the Newseum in Washington D.C. I saw the pictures on the walls. I looked at the children, the dying and the dead. My dad thought I was too young to understand.

All flesh is grass. The ‘War Photographer’ by Carol Ann Duffy. Is it a straight line between bringing the capabilities of gunpowder to the world and terrible war? No. But where there is knowledge, there is power. And even if she used her power to help her nation, that would only lead to war in the end.

Napalm. Mixed petroleum with a natural or synthesized rubber like latex. It wouldn’t be hard to create the same kind of thing. Not with Magnolia’s influence.

I want to run. I want to walk again.

I’m no Walter White, but I remember too much. Too much National Geographic and other shows about the world. Not a perfect memory. But too close.

Damn it. I can’t do it. I don’t want to be the one who creates a Hitler or gives another white…woman a gun and a mandate to conquer the world. But I want to run.

I can’t figure it out. I can’t decide. I waited a week—a damn week for her to arrive. In pain and fear. And now that she offered me what I was dreaming of, I should have leapt at it. But I hesitate. I draw back.

I sit on the edge of the abyss and wonder if my soul burns well in hell. It’s not fair. All I ever wanted to do was run. I don’t want to lose my leg. I want to run. I want to live. I want to walk.

I don’t want to see the child sitting alone. I don’t want to see the vulture. I don’t want it to be my fault.

Alone, I sit in my room, sitting with the fate of two worlds in my hands. This world’s and my world’s. I live to run. My legs are what define me.

All I have to do is ask the staff to get me a Street Runner. Or send a note to Magnolia Reinhart. She’s probably not too far from the city, if she’s even left yet. It would be so simple, and I wouldn’t be in pain.

It would—

The door opens. I look up. A face like perfection and a dream stares at me. Half perfection, half mortal. The cruelest of both worlds. Ceria Springwalker.

She hesitates and then steps into the room. I expect hollow words and hollower promises. I expect to be let down or to feel nothing but despair. But she doesn’t bring any of that.

She brings salvation.



——



“I know it’s bad.”

Ryoka sat on the bed. Ceria stared at her leg and then looked away.

“I’ve seen an injury like that before. I’m aware it can’t be healed so easily. I’m not sure if your friend really understood—”

“She doesn’t. It doesn’t matter. She can’t help. Neither can you.”

“We owe you a debt. You might not understand it, but Calruz hired every member of the Horns of Hammerad because we believe in honor. If we can help, we will.”

Ryoka bared her teeth.

“Got a few thousand gold coins?”

“No. That’s beyond us, frankly. Even if we sold our armor and weapons—and Calruz might, to impress you—I doubt we’d be able to get close to a [Healer] of that level. They’re in constant demand. Heard of the Healer of Tenbault?”

Ryoka started, and Ceria nodded.

“I’ve never seen her, but I know it’s virtually impossible to meet her—and everyone wants to, because she can apparently cure almost anything. Thousands camp around the gates of Tenbault each day, hoping she’ll tend to them. Even if we had the money they charge, it would take a miracle.”

Ryoka grunted. Her hand was clutching the sheets of her bed so hard they were white. Instead, Ceria looked at Ryoka. Ryoka gazed back.

What the young woman saw, Ceria could guess. A half-breed, perhaps. A memory of what was lost, or maybe she just saw a mage, someone who pursued strange goals few understood. It didn’t matter. And for some reason, Ceria thought that the Runner known as Ryoka Griffin looked at her differently than the rest. But duty was duty. Honor was honor.

“I heard Magnolia Reinhart visited you. Did she offer you anything?”

“She offered me a deal. I might have to take it. And damn my soul. Why am I responsible? I’m not. It’s not my…”

Ryoka stared down at the sheets. Wrestling with something. Ceria raised her brows and coughed.

“Before you do, be careful. My peo—I don’t trust the nobility.”

Ceria glanced sidelong at Ryoka, as if hoping for a confirmation. Ryoka grunted.

“I don’t trust anyone. Not with some things. They’ll…they’ll let you down.”

She looked haunted, torn—and strangely—principled. It was funny, but Ceria had heard that the City Runner who’d delivered the potions to her team hadn’t asked what they were offering for their emergency delivery.

The Horns had posted the highest number they dared, but it had been way too low for someone to risk a Lich killing them. But one Runner had come without even asking the price.

Strange, to find someone like that. It reminded the half-Elf of her bull-headed leader, Calruz. And her team. It made her want to help Ryoka, so she leaned forwards and took a breath.

“I know that Lady Magnolia offered you…something. I saw her on the way in. You might want to accept, but all deals have a price. Even if she doesn’t say, she’ll want something.”

“I know. But—”

Ryoka was staring at her legs, and Ceria knew what she was thinking. No matter what it was—if the choice was between never walking again and healing? That was why the half-Elf was here. Ceria lowered her voice.

“A spell is probably the only way to cure your leg. But there’s magic that she offers and then there’s…another way.”

“Another way?”

Ryoka looked at Ceria. Her eyes seemed to pierce the young half-Elf to her core. Ceria Springwalker had lived for over sixty years, but she hadn’t ever seen someone as desperate as Ryoka.

“Tell me.”

The eyes seemed to be boring a path straight into her soul. Ceria took a deep breath. She might regret this. She already was. But she thought of—the person she had considered when they were discussing Ryoka’s plight. Maybe that bastard was dead. She almost wished…no. No, and the odds were he was somewhere on Izril still. He’d never go back to Terandria or Wistram.

She had vowed never to speak to him again, but for this odd young woman in need, Ceria Springwalker closed her eyes and then asked Ryoka a question.

“…How do you feel about necromancy?”





1.34


After a few days, Erin concluded that she had three types of customers. The first type were the Antinium, namely Pawn and the Workers. He brought them every day or every other day as soon as the sun touched the tops of the mountains in the southwest.

The sun rose and fell in the same direction as back home, which was either a coincidence or something interesting. Erin felt stupid for not noticing earlier, but then, she didn’t carry around a compass, did she? At least it was still east to west.

The Workers arrived like clockwork each evening, many bringing chess sets of paper or stone. Apparently, Workers did earn some kind of pay, and they spent their money exclusively on chess and food.

Erin felt bad about that, especially given the price she charged for Acid Flies. But Pawn told her that before this, the Workers didn’t claim any of their weekly stipends. The ones who worked in the city were allocated some money, but it had never occurred to any of them to spend it, so in that sense, Erin was helping them become consumers.

Besides, they ate like pigs. Starving pigs with a taste for crunchy flies.

Despite their obsession with her food, the Antinium were polite, quiet except when they were eating, and played chess. In other words, Erin would have been glad to have them over every night.

The second kind of guest she got were the Goblins. They were like the Workers but smellier, dirtier, and they paid her with coins covered in blood, dirt, and occasionally—

Erin had instituted a policy in her inn. Goblins had to jump in the stream or at least wash themselves before they were allowed in. Not that many visited. In truth, it was just Rags and her posse.

And it was a posse. Or a group. Or gang. Erin was sure she was the leader of whatever they were, but while Rags was in command, it was also clear that she wasn’t in charge of her tribe, if there was still a tribe.

Occasionally, the small Goblin would come in alone, but often, she had two bigger Goblins following her. They were almost always injured—not seriously, but with small wounds that suggested scuffles and fighting. Erin wondered if the reason she didn’t see more Goblins was because they were recovering from injuries.

She wondered how many had died. Erin had slept with her windows and shutters locked and waited to see if more Goblins would—come back.

None did, and the small group that had fought for Erin had lurked around until Erin offered them food. She didn’t know how many were left of the ones who had killed Klbkch. She didn’t know if any were left, but she waited. Selys and Krshia had offered to put her up in Liscor, but Erin was staying.

It felt like it was the only thing she could do. So her Goblin guests became that tiny group.

Nevertheless, Rags paid for her followers’ meals and her own and ate in silence. Occasionally, she played a game of chess, but Erin got the distinct impression the small Goblin was watching her.

That was fine, but Erin had grown…warier over the last few days. She always checked to make sure she knew how many Goblins were around her inn, and even when Rags was alone in her inn, Erin never left any knives or other weapons out in the open. She also made the Goblins leave whatever they were carrying outside the inn.

Still, if the Goblins were an issue that occasionally made the Workers pause and Erin count the knives in her kitchen, they were still decent customers. They paid money, which was more than Erin could say for the last type of guest: annoying necromancer.



——



“Do you know how much money you owe me for all these meals?”

Pisces looked up, mouth bulging with soup. He swallowed, grabbed a piece of bread, and munched it down before replying.

“I am, as always, reliant upon your good graces and tolerant nature, good Mistress Solstice. Rest assured, I will pay off my debts in due time as soon as I acquire the necessary funds.”

Erin planted her hands on her hips. The inn was empty except for Rags sitting in one corner, slurping down another bowl of soup.

“You keep saying that, but do you actually have any money on you?”

Pisces raised his eyebrows.

“What is money but a concept? If you are referring to the notion of money, I am indeed wealthy in—”

“Coins. Do you have them?”

The [Necromancer] hesitated and lifted one delicate finger.

“Not as such, no.”

He shrugged as Erin glared and went back to his soup. It was amazing how Pisces could manage to scarf down her food and still grimace at the same time.

“I know you study magic all day, but would it kill you to get a job? Then you could pay for food instead of mooching it off me. And you could pay for someone to wash your robe, too!”

Pisces glanced down at his travel and food-stained robes. They were probably white, but constant use and little washing had rendered them colorfully gray and splotched.

“I fail to see your point.”

“Your clothes. Are filthy.”

He shrugged.

“Do they emit any kind of unsavory smell?”

“…No.”

“Then once again, magic has eliminated another tiresome chore. As to your point about employment, I remind you that I am banned from entering Liscor due to my magical inclinations.”

“And because you stole food and money from people by pretending to be a monster.”

Pisces rolled his eyes as if admitting one grudging good point.

“That too, I suppose. Regardless, it behooves me to stay away from the Watch. Even this far from the city, I must occasionally evade their tiresome patrols.”

“Well, you won’t have to do that much longer.”

Erin sighed and tossed her cleaning rag on the table next to Pisces. He eyed it and then her with sudden paranoia, and his eyes darted to a window.

“What do you mean?”

“Oh, they’re not going to patrol around the inn any longer. After—after Klbkch—anyways, the stupid Captain said she’s not going patrol this area. And Relc doesn’t hang out here now, so I guess you don’t have to worry about the Watch.”

Pisces repeated Erin’s words slowly. He relaxed and almost appeared cheerful—until he began to frown.

“They aren’t patrolling this region any longer?”

“That’s what I said.”

He scratched at his chin and glanced out the window. It was still morning, but Erin had closed most of the shutters. It was an unexpectedly chilly day today, and she didn’t feel like building a fire.

“That would be…problematic.”

“Oh? Why’s that?”

Pisces leaned back in his chair and fiddled with the spoon he was using. He stared at the ceiling, a sign Erin knew meant she was about to hear another lecture. Resigned, she picked up the bar rag and turned to clean another table.

Rags was sitting two tables over. Erin blinked as the Goblin quickly looked away. She hadn’t even heard the small Goblin move. Was she…listening in on Erin’s conversation with Pisces?

“The local fauna and flora of the area around Liscor are not the most deadly, considering the extreme variance of some death zones around the world, but there are several notable monster types that do pose a serious threat, even to me.”

Erin glanced over at Pisces.

“Even a great and glorious mage like you?”

“Let us just say that several of the species around here deter adventurers from pursuing their trade. Not that Drakes and Gnolls tend towards adventuring as much in any case. But without the Watch to keep local populations down, it will become hazardous quite quickly. I would suggest you hire some form of protection before this occurs.”

“What, like a bodyguard? I don’t have the money for that.”

Pisces shook his head.

“I was referring to thugs with weapons aptly known as ‘bouncers’ or the more mundane [Mercenary] classes, but you do raise a good point. I doubt many would be willing to travel this far to offer protection—and even if they did, their prices would be quite exorbitant.”

“That’s what I just said.”

“Yes, well, regardless, some form of personal defense would be highly advisable.”

“I can fight. I’ve got, uh, [Bar Fighting] as a Skill, you know. I can totally crack someone over the head with a chair.”

Pisces raised his eyebrows and applauded silently. Erin glared at him.

“Most, ah, impressive. However, I doubt your prowess with a wooden chair would deter anything but the average Goblin. Most creatures are a tad studier than that, I fear.”

This time, both Rags and Erin glared at Pisces. He ignored Erin, but he seemed less sanguine about Rags, who had moved over to the table next to his. Gingerly, as if expecting her to bite, Pisces flapped one hand at Rags, who shied away from him.

“Let me put it another way, Mistress Solstice. In words you may find easier to understand. Monsters, strong. You, weak. Regardless of your level, you have only the [Innkeeper] class, which has few Skills meant for fighting or survival.”

Pisces took another bite of bread and then reached for a cup as Erin fumed.

“I’m not completely helpless, you know.”

“I never said that you were. But fighting is far different from self-defense.”

He was right. In fact, Pisces was often right, but the problem was that he was so aggravating in being right that Erin didn’t like to admit it. She changed the subject to something she’d been waiting to bring up with him.

“By the way, I learned a new Skill after the—the game.”

Pisces paused with his tankard to his lips.

“Oh?”

“It’s called [Immortal Moment]. I have no idea what it does.”

“Hm.”

He frowned and took a deep drink, grimacing at the water in his cup.

“I have not ever heard of such a Skill in any of the directories I have read during my time as a student. Nor have I heard of such a Skill at any point in my life. Have you found out what it does?”

“Nope.”

Pisces shrugged again.

“It sounds like quite a useless Skill, to be honest.”

“That’s what I thought, too. But do you know if it has anything to do with chess? That’s probably where I learned it from.”

He thought about this as he drank.

“It is possible, although Skills that focus on one task are generally easier to understand from their name. It is more likely that this is some kind of ability you gained during the course of the game. But as to what that might be or how such a Skill could be used—”

He turned up one hand and finished his drink. Then he scowled and plonked the empty cup back on the table.

“Do you not have any ale? Or at least if you must serve drinks, would you do the courtesy of bringing out the Amentus beverage?”

Erin raised her eyebrows. Pisces pointedly glanced at his empty cup, and she more pointedly made no move to fill it.

“People who pay their tabs get blue juice. And as for alcohol—I’m underage, you idiot. I’m only 20.”

Pisces stared at her incredulously as Erin glared at him over the counter.

“Underage of what, precisely?”

“The drinking age of cou—”

Erin stopped.

“…Nevermind. Okay, yeah, I could buy alcohol, but it’s expensive.”

“And customary for an inn.”

Erin thought for a second. She vaguely recalled something.

“I do have [Alcohol Brewing] as a Skill. I guess I could…make alcohol?”

Once again, Pisces’ tone was laced with sarcasm.

“Ah. I see having a Skill replaces the need for hops, barrels, the fermentation process, yeast, and of course the grain needed for such a beverage. Do show me how you make ‘alcohol,’ and let me know when you’ve decided on what type of ‘alcohol’ you would like to create. I would especially love to know if it’s a rum, beer, whiskey, mead, or if it is in fact a consumable alcohol at all.”

Erin glared at him. The odd thing was that she understood exactly what Pisces meant. The Skill in her head was telling her all kinds of crazy things, like how long she’d have to ferment the wort she’d get after adding boiling water to grain, and all the supplies she’d need. And guess what? It turned out making alcohol was a pain in the ass.

She just wished Pisces weren’t competing for that honor. Erin folded her arms as she reconsidered.

“I can make wine too. Wine is easier.”

He shook his head.

“I trust your expert opinion, of course. But may I recommend testing your drink out on the Goblins or perhaps the Antinium before serving it with your meals?”

This time, Rags poked Pisces hard in the side. He yelped, swiped at her, and nearly fell out of his chair. He glared at Rags.

“Mistress Solstice, please keep your guest away from me. Elsewise, I may be forced to use magic to remedy the problem myself.”

He waggled his fingers, and they emitted a few bright green sparks. Rags instantly scooted away from Pisces in alarm. Erin folded her arms and glared at him.

“You’ll do no such thing if you want to eat here again. Stop bullying the Goblin, and stop insulting them while you’re at it. Besides, she’d probably beat you in a fight.”

“I doubt that.”

Pisces muttered darkly, but he subsided back into his chair and began shoveling more soup into his mouth. Rags deliberately looked away from both Humans and pretended to be engrossed in picking at dried scabs on her side. Erin sighed. Touchy mages and inquisitive Goblins. She missed the Antinium already.

“I get that the Workers and Goblins travel in groups and run away from monsters, but how do you survive out here by yourself?”

He shrugged sulkily.

“Any decent [Mage] has a number of spells to avoid detection. [Invisibility] is one of my fortes, for instance.”

“Oh. Right. I forgot you could do that. You know a lot of spells, huh?”

“I am quite adept in a number of magical fields. But yes, [Invisibility] is a 4th Tier spell I have acquired after much practice and study. It is useful in almost every situation.”

“Like for what? Spying on people? Hey—you haven’t ever come in here while you’re invisible, have you? Because if you have…”

Erin made a fist. Pisces raised both hands and made a face.

“Perish the thought. I do have standards to adhere to, and besides which, you are aware that most [Mages] use the [Farsight] and [Scrying] spells to gaze with impunity on anyone they like, are you not?”

“What?”

Erin looked at him in horror. Pisces smirked a bit.

“Is it so surprising? Most upper-class dwellings and bath houses have spells to prevent such unwanted attention. But fear not—there are no Human [Mages] in the area besides myself, and I suspect any Drake [Mages], if any competent individuals in Liscor, would prefer their own species to gaze upon.”

Erin shivered.

“That is the creepiest thought I’ve ever heard of. All of you mages are perverts, I swear.”

He looked indignant at that.

“Magic is a sacred art, Miss Solstice. If a few use it to untoward ends, that is a small consequence that cannot be avoided. But to all others who pursue magic, the benefits are enormous. For instance, I do not have to worry about monster attacks even should the Watch give up patrols in this area entirely.”

“So you’re Mister Powerful, huh?”

“You saw my effectiveness against the Acid Flies, did you not?”

That made Erin pause.

“Oh. Yeah. You were pretty cool then. Um, thanks again.”

Pisces waved a hand at her and fixed his attention back on his soup quickly. Erin thought his cheeks were slightly pink. She smiled and had another thought.

“Why don’t you teach me magic, then? I’ll get rid of your tab if you do.”

The [Mage] looked up from his soup and stared at Erin.

“Teach you. Magic? Good Mistress—”

She glared.

“Erin, then. You do realize that magic is not as simple as waving a wand about and chanting words, don’t you? Becoming a [Mage] such as myself requires years—sometimes decades of intensive study.”

“I know.”

Erin didn’t actually know that, but it made sense. But now that the idea had hit her, she was suddenly caught up by it. Magic. It seemed so strange and incomprehensible and yet—

“But, uh, can’t you teach me a bit of magic? I’d love to learn. I think mages are cool. I was a big fan of Harry Potter growing up, although Draco was sort of cute too—”

Pisces glanced at Rags and got a blank look in return.

“…Who?”

Erin blushed.

“Never mind. Forget that. But will you teach me something? It doesn’t even have to be a lot. I just want to learn about magic.”

Rags looked up and stopped picking at her scabs. Erin sensed the Goblin scooting closer from chair to chair as Pisces considered her offer.

“And you would forget my tab?”

“I’ll forget your tab and I’ll start buying alcohol.”

That seemed to swing the scales. Pisces nodded. He sat back ponderously in his chair and intoned in his important-sounding voice.

“Very well then. Let us begin with the Mage’s Test. Observe.”

Pisces raised a finger, which began to glow with blue-white light. He began to trace something in the air. Where his finger moved, the light from it seemed to leave an ethereal residue. Erin squinted at it, fascinated.

“This is the basic test for determining aptitude. I am drawing—”

The gentle glow of blue magic was half-complete in the air when something interrupted Pisces’ lecture. A flash of light bloomed right in front of his nose. Pisces yelped, overbalanced in his chair, and crashed to the ground.

Erin backed up. Pisces flailed around on the ground as Rags dove out of her chair and underneath a table.

“What was that? Get it off!”

Something was hovering in the air in front of Pisces. He batted at it frantically and then paused as he saw what it was. Slowly, he sat up, and Erin saw something floating around his head. It looked…like a firefly? A firefly made of red and gold—no, more like a spectrum of those colors flickering together and winking out in front of the [Mage]’s face. It was beautiful and mysterious.

“What is that?”

Pisces stood up. He slowly reached out, and the firefly became motes of light that danced around his hand. He stared at them.

“It’s a messaging spell, but I haven’t seen one like that since—”

He broke off, frowning. The pinpoints of light began to coalesce into strange, flickering shapes. Erin squinted at them, but they didn’t look like letters. Or…were they words? She couldn’t describe it—no, she couldn’t even understand it.

Each fleck of light twisted and became hovering runes or symbols, but they also made Erin think they were words. But could you make a single letter or shape into an entire concept? And they…they hurt to look at. Erin’s eyes ached trying to take the strange, magical shapes in.

It was as if they didn’t exist in normal, three-dimensional space. And the more Erin looked at them, the more she developed a painful headache and stinging behind her eyes. She had to glance away.

Rags was desperately trying to stare at the magical message, but she seemed to be in as much pain as Erin, clutching at her head and prying her eyes open with her dirty fingers.

Only Pisces seemed to be able to look at the shapes without any pain. He frowned and stood up. For a moment, his face was thunderous as he stared at the flickering spell, and Erin was disconcerted by the raw anger in his expression. Then it became melancholic almost as fast. He reached out as if to quash the little spell, then let it rest upon his fingertips. He murmured half to himself, then blinked and glanced at Erin.

“Why would—no. Wait. I must read this. I, ah, will be going now. Thank you for the meal.”

“No—problem.”

Erin shaded her eyes and watched as the dusty robes and sandaled feet made their way to her door. They paused, and she heard Pisces’ voice again.

“—Regardless of your feelings, you should still hire some sort of protection. The more aggressive types of monsters and wildlife will soon return to this area.”

Erin looked up and blinked as one of the shapes pulsed a message she couldn’t understand into her brain. She covered her eyes. When she dared remove her hand, Pisces was gone.



——



Bodyguards. Hired help. Bouncers. Security. People with pointy sticks. They ranged from people who were good in a brawl to retired or active adventurers willing to take easier jobs in exchange for pay.

They were expensive, but it beat being stabbed repeatedly or eaten by a monster. That was Pisces’ opinion. Erin heard pretty much the same thing when she saw Selys next.

The two young women were walking through the marketplace in Liscor, shopping. Erin was accompanying Selys, having placed her orders with Krshia already.

It was very strange. In some ways, Selys was just like any girl around Erin’s age. The female Drake looked at the latest fashions, checked out jewelry, bought food and supplies for the week, and chattered happily with the shopkeepers like any young woman living on her own.

If Erin closed her eyes, she could imagine she was back in her world. But when she looked at Selys, it was hard to ignore the scales. And the tail. And the conversation.

“Look Erin, I know you want to stay in your inn, but it’s not safe. At least hire one of the low-level adventurers. They’re not that strong, but I could get you a good deal. Maybe we could call it a perpetual extermination request. Then the Guild would pay some of the costs.”

Erin shook her head as they walked down the street.

“I don’t see why I need protection, Selys. I haven’t seen any monsters lately, not even the Rock Crabs. The only things I see are those weird dino-birds in the sky and Rags and the Goblins.”

“Those are bad enough. But you haven’t seen the really bad monsters because the Watch keeps them away! Look Erin, I don’t want to hear you’ve been eaten or munched up into little bits one day.”

“Lovely image.”

“Thanks. But the Watch is here for our protection. If they’re not guarding you—”

Selys broke off, frowning. She and Erin stopped their progress down the street. There was a crowd ahead of them, mainly Drakes with a few Gnolls mixed in.

“What’s that all about?”

Someone was shouting. No, someones were shouting. Erin stood up on her tiptoes but couldn’t see past the bodies in front of her. Then all of a sudden the crowd opened up, and several Drakes thrust their way through.

“Out of the way!”

Erin jumped aside and stared as a group of four armed Drakes pushed their way out of the crowd. These weren’t guardsmen, but they definitely weren’t civilians either.

“Adventurers.”

Selys whispered it to Erin as she drew her against one side of the street. Indeed, all of the pedestrians were giving the Drake adventurers a wide berth.

The Drakes shouted angrily back into the crowd behind them and stormed down the street. Erin watched them go. Then out of the crowd came a familiar figure.

Relc pushed aside the crowd and emerged from the press of bodies, tail lashing angrily. He turned, reached back into the scrum, and pulled out a smaller, dazed-looking Drake guardsman.

“Stop!”

He shouted at the backs of the Drake adventurers, but they ignored him. Fuming, Relc went to chase after them, but the other [Guardsman] grabbed him. Relc and the Drake began arguing furiously.

Selys looked from Relc to the adventurers anxiously.

“They must have gotten into a fight with the Watch. There will be trouble over this.”

Erin looked at Relc uncertainly. His tail was furiously lashing the ground as he argued with the other guardsman.

“Is he going to arrest them?”

“I hope not. Adventurers and the Watch don’t get along. If he does, there will be trouble. Well, there’s already going to be trouble at the Guild, but an arrest would really make things worse.”

Selys watched anxiously as Relc seemed to get angrier and angrier, despite the other guardsman clearly trying to calm him down. He tore himself away and began marching down the street after the adventurers, who had already disappeared from view. Coincidentally, his path took him right in front of Selys and Erin.

The Drake froze up when he saw Erin. She hesitated, not certain what she should say, if anything. Before she could make up her mind, Relc whirled around and marched in the opposite direction, dragging the hapless Guardsman along in his wake. He didn’t look back once.

Selys breathed out softly.

“Well, that was lucky. It’s a good thing he decided not to do anything. I’d hate to see a fight break out in the market, especially since we’re not done shopping. Good thing seeing you calmed him down, right, Erin? Erin…?”

She looked over at Erin’s face. The Human was wiping at her eyes. Selys’ eyes widened, and her tail began to twitch.

“Oh. Um. Sorry. I didn’t mean—let’s—let’s go.”

Gently, she took Erin by the arm and led her away. The crowd stared at the Human curiously, but lost interest now that the adventurers and Relc were both gone. Only a few Gnolls stared after Erin’s back but quickly looked away when a certain Gnoll shopkeeper stepped out of her shop and glared at them.



——



“Here. Have a cup of this.”

Selys handed Erin a steaming cup of something bittersweet. Erin sipped at it gratefully and tasted what she imagined was a root-vegetable. Well, it wasn’t bad, and it was warm.

“Sorry about that.”

“…It’s fine. I just—I guess Relc wasn’t expecting to see me. He looked angry.”

“Well, yes.”

Selys bustled around her small home, fetching another cup of root-tea for herself as she made Erin at home. The room she’d brought Erin into reminded Erin of a normal apartment, except it was quite open and spacious. The chair she was sitting on was also sized differently so that the legs were higher off the ground than normal.

At last, the female Drake took a seat next to Erin.

“I guess it was another incident with the adventurers. I didn’t recognize them from the Guild, so they must be from further south. And the ones we’ve been getting lately, well, they don’t like to obey the laws as much, so we’ve been getting a lot of complaints at the Adventurer’s Guild.”

“Mm.”

Erin had almost forgotten Selys was a receptionist at the Guild.

“They were all Drakes. Aren’t there Gnoll adventurers too?”

“Oh, a few. But that was probably an all-Drake team. Gnolls—well, Gnolls don’t like working with other species as much. And not as many become adventurers, so we haven’t been getting as many.”

“What about Humans? Aren’t any of them adventurers?”

“Lots. Most, in fact. But this group is from down south. Past the Bloodfields. They must have risked the journey—it’s not too dangerous if you go wide around it—in hopes of finding worth in the north. Rare, but it happens. But they’re from the south.”

“…Right?”

Erin frowned at Selys. Selys frowned back.

“They’re from down south, so they’re all Drakes or Gnolls.”

“Right, right. Because all Drakes live in the south…?”

Selys paused.

“…Erin. Do you not know the local geography?”

“Um, no.”

Erin fidgeted in her seat. Selys sighed, but smiled.

“You really need to pay more attention. Wait here for a second.”

She put down her cup and bustled about her home, rummaging around in drawers. Erin sipped at her tea until Selys came back with a piece of paper.

“Do you know anything about this continent?”

“I know we’re on a continent. How’s that?”

Selys jabbed Erin playfully with one claw. Erin yelped and nearly knocked over her tea.

“Sorry, sorry! I forgot how soft you Humans are! Sorry!”

“It’s okay.”

Embarrassed, Selys picked up a quill and unscrewed an inkpot.

“Here, let me show you. The name of the continent we’re living on is Issrysil, according to my people—but no one says that. Everyone calls it Izril. It looks…like this.”

Selys drew on the piece of paper and outlined a body of land that looked vaguely like a triangle up top, but narrowed near the center and became vaguely shoe-shaped near the bottom. It was fairly ovoid in total, though, or maybe that was just the result of Selys’ drawing skills.

“Okay, this is roughly where all you Humans live. See? The entire northern part of the continent except where the mountains start. From here…to…here.”

Erin peered at the giant squiggly oval Selys drew around the northern section of the continent. Then she added small triangles for mountains two-thirds up the map, a long line of them stretching across the continent, nearly cutting the top third off from the bottom.

“And here’s Liscor. See, we’re the only way through the High Passes. Technically, there’s a route through the mountain range over here…but it’s infested with monsters. And of course the coastal routes to the east and west.”

Selys drew arrows through two sections of the mountain range and circled the small dot where Liscor was. That was roughly in the center of the map, where the continent was narrowest. Erin wasn’t good at geography—or topography—or whatever maps were, but it looked like Liscor was in a valley of some sorts.

“See, that’s why Liscor is so important. Without us, any goods have to go by land or sea all the way around the continent or brave the High Passes. And that’s not a good idea.”

“These High Passes aren’t safe?”

“Not even for high-level adventurers. Nasty creatures live around there—they make the local monsters look harmless by comparison.”

“Oh. But if all the Humans live in the north, what about the south? Are they all…Gnolls and Drakes?”

“And Antinium, but only in the Hivelands. Right along the northwestern coast below the High Passes, see? There are other species, but there are only three—four, I guess—in Izril.”

Selys shook her head as she began marking the bottom half of the map. She pointed out a small area in the lower half of Izril along the mountains and coastal range. A corner of the south.

“Here are the five known Antinium colonies outside of Liscor. Past this point is their territory. The Hivelands.”

She shivered.

“New. No one goes there, so we don’t know what it’s like, but I’ve heard it’s barren, and obviously, no armies or anyone else cross the border or get near the Antinium. It’s a death sentence.”

Why? Erin was about to point out Liscor had tons of Antinium…then she thought of the Soldiers and