urview generally. She was a chess player. She didn’t…dance. Nor had her social life in dancing situations ever ended up with her in the center of the circle of attention.

She could dance, or at least, show Goblins how to do the Gangnam Style dance. But honestly, everyone had tried that one. But what Erin realized now was that dancing was another world and she was an amateur figuring out the board.

She’d seen Lyonette teaching Pawn classic ballroom dances from her world that reminded Erin of dancing from an era with kings and castles, but casual dancing between the people of this world was something Erin had seen only once. When she’d sung from atop her inn, for instance.

They moved. Erin was no [Choreographer] who could speak to the evolution of dancing, but if she was, she might have observed that as the years had drawn on, dancing in her homeland of America for instance had ceased to move about as much.

It wasn’t fair to say it was less technical; indeed, modern dancing had a lot of complex movements that involved every part of the body, but it had grown directional, and in many cases, static, dances you could perform in a confined arena, or, helpfully, captured by a single camera lens. But dancing in this world had never been constrained by the need to put it on video.

It was free, and it travelled. Erin saw Saliss travel halfway across the prison hallway, his feet kicking high, laughing as he danced to an imaginary beat. If Erin could have compared it to anything, it would be swing dancing, or the free, expressive, limbs-akimbo dances from the beginning of the last century.

And somehow, the Drake’s insanity was catchy. Erin felt something rising in her chest as she watched him coming back her way. He paused in front of her chest, expectantly.

“Well? Hey, show me what you’ve got.”

He produced a ring of keys and unlocked Erin’s cell. Her jaw dropped. Saliss winked at her. Then he held out a claw.

“Tell me you can dance. Everyone can dance. Come on. What’s stopping you?”

He winked at Erin. And she couldn’t help it. The ridiculousness of it, the sight of the Drake dancing in the prison amid all the shouting prisoners, it flipped a switch in Erin’s chest. It was so familiar. It was—something she’d do.

And then it happened. Erin started giggling. And then—like magic, she started laughing. But it was no spell, or even a Skill. Saliss needed none of that. He grinned as Erin left her cell.

“Okay. Fine. You’re insane.”

“Takes one to know one.”

He winked. Erin laughed. Then she tried to do a moonwalk. She failed. She couldn’t dance. And she hated that Saliss was actually better nude dancing than she was. By a lot. But Erin knew some moves.

They ended up doing the Cha Cha Slide past a row of cells. Erin was laughing so hard she was crying. The [Guards] were shaking their heads. And the prisoners were rioting.

“Argh! Turn the other way! Turn the other way!”

“Stop waving it around you damn [Alchemist]! Get lost!”

“You can leave the Human. Take your clothes off!”

What a strange world. Erin didn’t quite believe it was happening. But somehow, she found herself laughing, laughing at the strangeness of it all as the [Alchemist] did the hustle while rolling his arms past a cell. He dodged a cup and did a Travolta, pointing out at the sky as he posed.

“See? You’re smiling! I knew I could do it! Show me some more! Come on! Dance! Can we get some music in here?”

He laughed at Erin. And she was giggling too hard to reply. Saliss backed up, doing a grapevine—and someone blew a shrill whistle.

“Silence!”

The piercing whistle made even Saliss and Erin pause. A squad of [Guards] marched down the prison on either side, forcing the prisoners back. They ignored Saliss and Erin, although a few glared at the Drake in a familiar way. He waved, and Erin saw a quartet of figures making their way towards her. The inmates went quiet as the patrol swept through the prison. Saliss sighed.

“Ah. I think we’re in trouble.”

“You think?”

Erin stared at him. But the Drake didn’t look worried. He put his hands behind his head as the Gnoll [Warden] stomped towards him.

“Sir Saliss. Please refrain from throwing my prison into chaos at your whim.”

The Gnoll [Warden] snarled at him. The Drake sighed.

“I make no promises. And I was just dancing. But if you insist, [Warden].”

“Asset to the city or not, I could triple your sentence!”

The Gnoll snapped at him. Saliss raised his claws innocently.

“If it has to be that way, I suppose I could stay a while longer.”

The Gnoll stared at Saliss, dismayed, and then glared at Erin.

“And letting a prisoner out of their cell? Those keys are for emergencies only! This is a flagrant disregard for—Strategist, I apologize. Our prisoner is normally well-behaved. This hasn’t happened in over a month—”

She was bowing and addressing a much shorter Drake. Erin saw grey scales, an eye patch—her eyes widened as Chaldion, the aged [Strategist] lifted a claw. The Drake eyed Erin, and then looked at Saliss. He sighed.

“Saliss.”

“Chaldion! And Rufelt and Lasica! What brings you here? Am I under arrest? Lock me away! I could live here a week! Make it a month!”

The Gnoll [Warden] paled under her fur as Saliss winked at the old Drake. She turned hurriedly to Chaldion as Erin spotted the Gnoll and Drake beyond Chaldion. Rufelt grinned at her—Lasica was covering her eyes. Erin weakly waved.

“Strategist Chaldion! I cannot apologize enough—”

“Enough.”

The Drake spoke softly, but the [Warden] shot to attention. Chaldion eyed Saliss again and shook his head.

“I am well aware of Adventurer Saliss’ antics. Given the circumstances, I don’t find any issue here. Except with Saliss himself. Let us pretend this incident never occurred, Warden Grasfur. I will take it from here.”

“Sir!”

Relieved, the Warden saluted and retreated. She shot Saliss a glare and the Drake waved at her. Chaldion sighed.

“Saliss—”

“It was just dancing, Chaldion. But if you insist, I suppose the Assembly can punish me. Kick me out of the city! Go on, I deserve it.”

The Drake spread his arms. Chaldion sighed.

“Why am I not surprised to see you with the very Human I’m here to find?”

Saliss pursed his lips.

“Well, she was put in the cell opposite mine.”

“Ah.”

Chaldion looked at Erin. She blinked at him. She knew him too! Erin glanced past him at the Gnoll and Drake couple.

“Rufelt! Lasica! What are you doing here?”

They glared at her. Erin smiled weakly. Lasica, the Drake [Chef], pursed her lips and spoke in an acerbic tone.

“Erin, when I recommended you to Pallass Hunting, it was to keep you from causing trouble in Pallass.”

“I uh—I didn’t mean to cause a problem.”

Rufelt sighed. He looked more amused than his wife; his eyes were twinkling as he looked at Saliss and then the prison.

“And so you got thrown in jail, yes? The 9th floor is still in an uproar. Lucky for you, we’re here to bail you out.”

He winked. Lasica elbowed her husband, glaring.

“And Strategist Chaldion has been exceptionally kind enough to review your case on his time off.”

She half-bowed to the Drake and Chaldion grinned, showing yellowed, but still-sharp teeth. Erin blinked at him.

“He was? I mean—thank you! I wasn’t—it was his idea to let me out. He has keys! And he’s naked!”

She pointed at Saliss. No one had commented on the Drake’s nudity. Indeed, all three adults just gave Saliss a resigned look. Both Rufelt and Chaldion kept their gazes strictly focused upwards. Lasica’s look was the most pointed. She glared at Saliss, and then at Erin.

“It’s quite an imposition, and you should be grateful that Chaldion decided to release you early. Or he was going to.”

“Oh. Thank you! I mean—it was an accident! But I’m extremely sorry—”

Erin gulped. She’d completely forgot about her sentence while she’d been dancing with Saliss. But Chaldion smiled. His tail moved back and forth lazily as he gestured at her.

“I heard a rumor a strange Human female had been causing trouble. I thought it sounded familiar, so I made an inquiry. I’m partial to gambling, so I owe myself a few drinks at Tails and Scales.”

“Which we’d be delighted to treat you to, sir. Our Human friend has been exceptionally disruptive, and we can’t apologize enough.”

Lasica glared again at Erin. The young woman shuffled her feet.

“I didn’t mean—I am sorry.”

“I’m aware. Although, I must ask. Do you remember me, Miss Solstice?”

Erin blinked at Chaldion. He was short, having shrunken with age. She nodded.

“I remember. At my inn. You used that crazy Skill to win. Hey…are you some big shot?”

Lasica and Rufelt both sighed. Chaldion only laughed.

“That’s relative. But I do have the authority to release you. Which I will do. On the condition that we play another game. None of the brats—I mean, whelps Pallass churns out can play a game with me.”

“Really? Just for a game of chess? I mean—thank you!”

Erin saw Lasica’s warning look. Chaldion chuckled to himself and nodded.

“You’re already out of your cell and cuffs. Now, as for you, Saliss…”

He eyed the naked Drake. Saliss folded his arms.

“I was just helping Miss Solstice find her inner [Dancer]. By all means, arrest me! Put me in the stocks—”

“Saliss.”

Lasica growled at him. The Drake sighed and unfolded his arms. Chaldion gave him a one-eyed look.

“Sir Saliss Oliwing.”

His tone was cold. Erin felt her own back straighten as Chaldion stared at Saliss. There was a familiar tingle in the air. Lasica and Rufelt winced, and Erin felt the distinctive feel of an aura being used. She pushed away the oppressive feeling. But then—it wasn’t aimed at her.

The nude [Alchemist] paused, and his lighthearted look turned into reluctant seriousness. He stared past Chaldion’s head as the [Strategist] looked at him.

“Sir Saliss. Are you simply incapable of keeping yourself out of trouble?”

“Apparently not, [Strategist]. I apologize for the inconvenience to the Watch, and the city.”

Saliss spoke in a flat tone, not meeting Chaldion’s gaze. The old [Strategist] pursed his lips.

“Your rank gives you privilege. Do you have any respect for it?”

There was a glint in Saliss’ eye as he turned his head. he met Erin’s gaze for a moment.

“What good is rank if it’s not used, Strategist?”

Chaldion glared. Erin felt the pressure intensify—and then vanish. Chaldion waved a disgusted claw.

“I’ll consider this part of mitigating your sentence. And if it means restoring order here, it’s a small cost. You’re free to go. Clothed. Get out of my prison.”

“There’s always a catch.”

Saliss relaxed. Chaldion turned.

“You’re a disgrace to Pallass, you know.”

The [Alchemist] paused.

“Well, I’d say in that case it’s a wonder Pallass has to embrace me at all. It was lovely meeting you, Miss Solstice. Rufelt, Lasica, I’ll visit the bar sometime later. When the glorious high-strategist Chaldion’s gone. I need to find a towel.”

Erin didn’t quite see sparks bursting off Saliss and Chaldion as the two Drakes walked past each other. She held her breath—and then Saliss was gone, waving at a [Guard]. The air relaxed. Erin looked at Rufelt. He gave her a knowing nod saying…well, she got it.

Chaldion sighed. He looked at Erin and Lasica intervened. The [Chef] gave a polite smiled and grabbed at Erin’s arm.

“Thank you for your help, Chaldion. And you, Erin, will be coming with us. For a talk about rules in Pallass. Let’s all retire to the bar, shall we?”

She grabbed Erin’s arm with her claws. Erin yelped.

“Ow! Lasica! It was an accident! Ow, ow!”

Chaldion chuckled as the Drake hissed at Erin. He waved a claw as he turned.

“That will be all, Warden.”

He nodded as the quartet walked back towards the entrance of the prison. Erin stared as the prison [Guards] smartly opened both gates to let them out. They treated Chaldion like…she eyed the Drake hurrying out ahead of them with a towel wrapped around his waist. Rufelt and Lasica eyed Saliss from behind, but he did have a covering on.

“Lasica, who is he? I met that guy—Saliss in jail. They threw me in the punishment cell and he—he’s naked and he’s an [Alchemist] and—”

Lasica sighed. Her claws weren’t digging into Erin’s arm anymore. She nodded at Saliss as the Drake spread his arms, his towel perilously close to falling off him. Erin heard him shout.

“Freedom!”

“That would be our insane Drake. Saliss Oliwing. Everyone in Pallass knows him. I hope he didn’t bother you too much?”

“He didn’t—actually, he was really annoying. But it was also good. Sort of.”

Erin blinked. Somehow, she’d forgotten her funk. She’d laughed for the first time in ages. Lasica gave Erin a side-long glance.

“Well, well. You’re smiling. Maybe it was good the two of you met. He does have that effect on people.”

“I am?”

Erin felt at her face. She blinked.

“But who—”

Chaldion cleared his throat. As the group emerged into the sun, the [Strategist] pointed at Saliss’ back. The old Drake glared as Saliss spread his arms towards the sky.

“Erin Solstice. May I present Saliss Oliwing, the highest-leveled [Alchemist] in all of Pallass. Perhaps the world. He is also a Named Adventurer and Pallass’ only permanent resident Named-rank adventurer in the entire city. He is one of the most powerful Drakes on the continent, known as Saliss of Lights.”

Erin stared. Her jaw dropped. She saw Saliss waving at a pair of Drakes who hurried past him, avoiding his gaze.

“What?”

She looked at Lasica and Rufelt. The two nodded, resigned. Erin looked at Chaldion. Then at Saliss.

“What? Him?”

“Our Named Adventurer. He gets arrested every other week for nudity. And he’s completely above the law. The city needs him too badly.”

Lasica muttered, shaking his head. Chaldion just stared.

“Not my law. But the Assembly of Crafts has given him immunities. That hatchling dances about and does what he pleases, even in prison. Don’t let him fool you. He’s dangerous.”

“Not to you. To monsters. But he is a Named Adventurer. A powerful one, even by their standards.”

Rufelt clarified. He nodded at Saliss. Erin just gaped at Saliss. It couldn’t be. But—everything made sense. The Drake was laughing, doing a boogie-dance in the streets.

“But he’s so…random.”

“It’s an act. Mostly.”

Lasica’s lip curled. Her tail moved restlessly as she looked at Erin.

“He aggravates anyone he’s put in a cell across from. And he’ll tangle with even a gang in Pallass and cause a commotion at the drop of a hat. He’s a nuisance—but he’s also generous. He keeps Pallass safe, so he gets a lot of leeway. And he does help people in need quite often. Actually…I think he’s you. Pallass’ crazy Drake [Alchemist]. Which makes you Liscor’s copy.”

Erin’s jaw dropped. She spluttered.

“Hey! I’m nothing like him! I’m not a nudist! Hey! Take that back!”

Lasica refused to. She grinned as Erin turned red and pointed at Saliss’ back. Chaldion and Rufelt laughed as well.

“It’s true! I didn’t think of it that way, but Saliss is like a male Erin. He’s certainly done as much or more than she has.”

“I’m not him! Hey! Hey! Take it back! He’s crazy! I don’t dance about naked! He wouldn’t put on pants! I’m nothing like that!”

The old Drake grinned at her and his one good eye crinkled up as the young woman shouted, and then laughed along with the husband and wife. Erin was outraged, amused—and strangely, happy. As she protested outside of Pallass’ prison, and the Drake [Alchemist] laughed and spun in the sunlight, Erin Solstice remembered.

She could be happy too. And like a bubble bursting in her chest, Erin remembered them. Happier days. Something bright emerged, and blew away the rainclouds that had been hovering over her heart. She blinked. And then she remembered a day in the inn, sitting and watching Mrsha tease Pisces. Feeding the Redfang Goblins. Laughing.

“What the—”

Lasica recoiled away from Erin. The young woman jumped and looked down. A bright flame bloomed in her hands. Rufelt and Chaldion stared. The old [Strategist] blinked.

“Ah. So that is the Skill that caused so much trouble.”

“Erin!”

Lasica stared at the flame in Erin’s hands. The young woman blinked.

“I didn’t mean to! I’m sorry. I—”

Her breath caught. Erin stared down at the dancing, bright flame. It wasn’t sad. In fact, it was lively. Small, but burning bright. And not blue, but—

“Purple?”

There it was. A fiery, purple flame, turning to pink around the edges. Bright and shining, fading to pink out from the purple core. It was small, but it glowed. Erin stared at it. And she didn’t feel laughter. She just felt…a bit happy.

“Now, isn’t this a lovely color?”

Erin started. Saliss of Lights, the Named Adventurer of Pallass, rested an arm on Erin’s shoulder. He stared down at the flame, grinning.

“I knew it was tied to emotion. Well, well. Happiness is a royal purple for you. Not yellow? But is it my preconceptions or yours? Or just the color the flame takes at this particular moment, or with this set of emotions? And what does this flame do? Let’s find out!”

He touched a tiny length of wood to the flame. Erin jumped and felt a bloom of warmth as the flame leapt onto the torch. Saliss laughed.

“Yoink! Thank you, Miss Solstice! Ooh. What a pleasant warmth.”

“Hey! How did you—? Give that back!”

“Call it a fee for the help! I have to experiment with this! Tell Xif this one’s mine! And away I go!”

Saliss leapt backwards. Erin grabbed for him, but he raced off, charging down the street and laughing. The purple flame bloomed on the torch, small, weak, but radiant. A bit of happiness.

After about fifty feet Saliss’ towel came off. Erin heard shouts. An exclamation. A scream for the Watch. Chaldion stared after Saliss and shook his head. Lasica sighed.

“If he wasn’t a Named Adventurer, I think the Assembly of Crafts would have exiled him years ago, genius or not. But he is unrivaled in what he does. Still, someday…”

She shook her head. Rufelt nodded and Chaldion just pursed his lips. But Erin smiled. She looked after Saliss. He did remind her of…her. Of the act, certainly. But he’d been kind. And somehow—he’d managed to turn her mood upside down. She wondered what the real Saliss was like.

“I like him. He’s free.”

“Of clothing, certainly. Shall we leave him be? Hopefully he just holes himself in his workshop and doesn’t emerge for a week. And I could use a drink I was promised. And a game of chess with this young woman.”

Chaldion snorted. Lasica started and Rufelt, smiling, swept his paw up.

“Of course. To Tails and Scales!”

The group headed out. Erin looked sideways at Chaldion. They’d played only a few games, but she vividly remembered the one-eyed Drake flipping his eye patch up to use the magic embedded in his fake eye. She caught Chaldion looking at her too.

“Um, thanks. Really. I know I caused a fuss, but it was this thing with Pelt and—”

The Drake waved a claw.

“I’ve dealt with far worse. But I am sure you will not cause a fuss like that twice.”

He looked meaningfully at Erin. She shuffled her feet.

“Who me? Of course not! I’ve learned my lesson! I don’t want to go to prison.”

”Good! Because Pallass would be well in its rights to leave you there for at least a day, even for an accident.”

Lasica warned Erin severely. The young woman winced. Chaldion just smiled, though.

“True enough. But on the whole, I believe Miss Erin should thank Guardsman Kel. I understand he ordered her put in the cells near Saliss. Normally we consider that a kind of punishment since our Named Adventurer is quite adept at aggravating his cellmates.”

“Thank him? He told them to put me in jail!”

Erin started, remembering Kel’s order to the [Guards]. Chaldion nodded agreeably.

“Yes. With one of the few individuals in the city able to help you control that Skill of yours. Of course, Magus Grimalkin is another renowned expert, but you did commit a crime. There are consequences.”

He looked at Erin again. She flushed.

“Yeah. That’s true. But—huh.”

“You have to pay for your mistakes. In case Chaldion wasn’t clear, you don’t get another chance.”

Lasica poked Erin in the side. Rufelt put an arm on his wife’s shoulder.

“Now, Lasica. I’m sure Erin is sorry enough. Especially after dealing with Saliss for an entire hour.”

“I just want to make sure she understands this isn’t Liscor! There are serious consequences and we can’t protect her!”

Erin kicked along the street, looking down at her feet. She muttered under her breath.

“But I’m the consequences.”

“Hm? What was that?”

Lasica glared at Erin. She avoided the Drake’s wrathful gaze. And she found herself glancing at Chaldion.

“Thanks. Again.”

“It was nothing. But I do mean it when I say I want to play a game of chess with you. I’ve been thinking over the last time we played.”

Erin nodded slowly.

“Yeah. I wouldn’t mind that. But—Lasica. I have to go back to my inn. I got sidetracked, but I know it’s open.”

“You owe Chaldion a game. And we owe him some drinks. It would be impolite to go now.”

The Drake had a warning note in her tone. Erin winced, but Chaldion stroked his chin thoughtfully.

“That inn? Very well. I wouldn’t mind drinking there. Assuming there is good alcohol on tap?”

He looked at Erin. Lasica exhaled loudly, but Rufelt grinned.

“Absolutely. Then we shall go with you. Erin has been gone from her inn.”

“You’re spoiling her.”

“I might as well practice!”

The Gnoll laughed again. He pointed to an elevator and Erin smiled, grateful. She inhaled, taking in the air. The stories were true. Everything felt different after prison. Or meeting one crazy nude Drake. She looked at Chaldion, about to ask who he was. She had a feeling—

Erin stopped dead in her tracks. She heard a warning bell, then a siren go off in her head. She saw Chaldion stop too, and his head whip around. Rufelt and Lasica were walking, talking with their heads together about alcohol and the drinks Lasica would be getting. Both stopped.

“Now what is it?”

“I—”

Erin saw Chaldion look at her sharply. And then she heard a roar. A boom shook the air from atop the walls. Erin Solstice looked up. For a second she only saw dust, a cloud of…mist? No. Frost.

And then she saw it. A huge shape, landing high, high on the battlements of the Walled City. Far away, but massive. First one. Then hundreds. Erin Solstice looked up and stared at the Wyverns as they flew over Pallass, casting a shadow over the Walled City of Invention.

“No way.”



—-



Watch Captain Rekhassha and the Day Strategist already knew the Wyverns were headed their way. They hadn’t taken their eyes off the weyr in the last two hours.

“They’re as large as any adults I’ve seen. Larger.”

All of the hair on Rekhassha’s body was standing up. The ploy with the cattle decoy had failed. For some reason, the Wyverns were headed straight for Pallass. Why?

“Nothing to fear.”

The Day Strategist was standing as tall as he could, although he was still shorter than the female Gnoll. He glared around, projecting his voice as the [Soldiers] and [Guards] on the wall stared at the Wyverns. He was trying to exude confidence, but Rekhassha had gotten the message from 4th Army as fast as he had, and she’d seen him swearing a blue streak.

“Would now be a good time to inform Strategist Chaldion? Or call up a core of the 1st Army?”

Rekhassha stared at the Day Strategist. He glared back.

“We don’t need to cause an alarm! The Wyverns will not reach Pallass’ walls, Watch Captain.”

He sounded sure of himself, but Rekhassha didn’t like the way the Wyverns were flying. They were coming at Pallass.

“I believe we should call an alert. Put everyone indoors—”

“That is not necessary! I’m in charge here! The Assembly of Crafts will have my tail and yours if we cause a false alarm!”

The Day Strategist snapped back. Rekhassha was aware their argument was in plain view of the soldiers. She growled.

“And I am Watch Captain and I say—”

“North wall! West wall! Prepare for aerial engagement!”

The Day Strategist shouted past Rekhassha, using a speaking stone to convey his message. She snarled as he strode past her. [Soldiers] and [Guards] snapped to alertness as the Day Strategist bellowed. The Wyverns were still far off, but closing in fast. Still, they had miles to go, and they were entering into Pallas’s range.

“Ballistae crews, hold! Catapults, load flaming munitions! Trebuchets, aim and fire for the mass of the Wyverns when they reach maximum range!”

The siege weapons atop Pallass’ walls turned, calculating their shots. Rekhassha watched as trebuchets were loaded with enchanted munitions. These were not the smaller-scale, mundane trebuchets that the Humans had somehow managed to acquire at Liscor. Rekhassha had heard a rumor the Humans had [Engineers] who could build them. Ridiculous! Only Pallassian [Engineers] among a few others had the technical prowess!

And they had built massive trebuchets, twice as large as what normal wood and steel could envision. These were magical monsters of siege artillery. They could hit an army from miles away. Now, they turned, and the Day Strategist bellowed. He was calculating the Wyvern’s approach and the maximum range of the trebuchets.

“Hold! Hold! Now! Launch!”

The trebuchet’s arms swung up. Rekhassha saw huge slings filled with giant stones—or smaller payloads of explosive or enchanted munitions—hurl through the air. The sound the trebuchets generated was like thunder. She stared.

Pallass’ trebuchets fired for practice, but this was a rare sight. Huge orbs of magicked brass and giant stones flew at the Wyverns. Rekhassha saw their formation break up—then plumes of light.

“Direct hit!”

The Day Strategist clenched one clawed fist as Wyverns fell out the sky. The entire weyr reacted with visible shock. But still they came on. The Day Strategist bellowed.

“Long-range ballistae! Fire!”

Specialized [Archers] and [Engineers] aimed the rare and deadly Drake war weapons. The Day Strategist bared his teeth as he heard a tremendous snap and tearing of the air as one of the ballistae fired. A bolt, propelled by magic and physics and a Skill shot through the air. It struck a Wyvern impossibly far away, piecing through one—then halfway through another.

“Yes! Reload! Fire for maximum effect! [Archers]! Fire as the Wyverns reach your range!”

Dedicated [Longbow Snipers] raised massive longbows and set enchanted arrows to the strings. The Day Strategist strode back towards Rekhassha. Another trebuchet thumped and the Wyverns dove as a deadly rain of flaming stones tore at their wings.

“I have the keys to the wall spells. Watch Captain Rekhassha, do I have permission to unleash our first grade of spells?”

She stared at him. The Wyverns were breaking up, unsure of what to do in the face of the attacks. And as they kept flying forwards, more and more archers and [Mages] and siege weapons were firing.

Even so—she detested the smug look on the Day Strategist’s face. He was acting too casual. Showing off. Rekhassha growled.

“Granted.”

The Day Strategist already had the command scrolls in one hand. He unfurled them as the Wyverns regrouped. They spread out, but they refused to retreat. Rekhassha heard, in the distance, a piercing shriek, incredibly loud and filled with rage. She saw the Wyvern Lord leading the charge. It dodged an enchanted ballista bolt, diving with incredible speed and flew at the walls. But if it thought this was all Pallass could do—it was wrong.

“Activating the first layer of defensive spells! Mark!”

The Day Strategist unfurled a scroll and Rekhassha saw his eyes shine. He grinned, laughing as power coursed through him. And he pointed.

The Wyvern Lord, flying at Pallass’ walls in a rage, sensed the magic surging through the walls. In his vision, the walls lit up, and magical symbols traced themselves in the air. The Wyvern Lord pulled up his flight, alarmed. And he saw a miniature cataclysm blast through the air at his weyr.

Hundreds of fiery orbs appeared and shot like rain towards the distant Wyverns. They streaked through the air, faster than the few arrows being loosed by the longest-range [Archers]. They were tiny, but they exploded in huge blasts of flame.

The Wyverns screamed and dove, but the fireballs flew down, catching them and blasting their scales apart. One couldn’t kill a Wyvern, but it could punch a hole in a wing. And three? Five? Eight? The Wyvern Lord saw a Wyvern explode as twelve hit it from all sides.

Homing [Fireballs]. And—Rekhassha clapped her paws to her ears—lightning. A classic deterrent to everything that flew. Dozens of bolts flashed from Pallass’ walls each second, striking down any Wyvern in range.

Fireballs, lightning—the next wave was an assault of stones, conjured from the sky, but Rekhassha didn’t see them falling. The fireballs and lightning ceased and she saw the Wyverns were in full retreat. Nearly a hundred lay dead as the trebuchets kept thumping and the ballistae fired a last volley of shots.

“There! They’re running scared!”

Someone cheered and the [Soldiers] shouted as they saw the Wyverns flying back, as fast as they could come. Rekhassha saw the Day Strategist’s chest inflate to near-bursting. She glared at him, but she had to admit—the fallen corpses of the Wyverns filled her with pride as much as awe. She and the defenders on the wall saw the lesson that the Wyvern Lord had just learned.

This was Pallass. To get in range of the city, the Wyverns would have to fly through walls of spells and munitions. The Day Strategist hadn’t even activated the most powerful spells yet. And the [Soldiers] could unleash devastating hails of arrows, not just the high-level [Snipers] from afar.

The Drake [Strategist] swaggered back to the Watch Captain, drunk on the power of loosing all those spells. He waved a lazy claw at the weyr, now out of range of even the trebuchets.

“Just as I said, Watch Captain. Nothing to fear. I have the [Cage of Pallass] spell ready for use as well. If the Wyverns somehow make it to the walls, I will activate it. I imagine the Assembly won’t appreciate the mana cost, but the safety of Pallass comes first.”

“Of course.”

Rekhassha tried not to meet his smug gaze. She narrowed her eyes and found her spyglass. The Wyverns were regrouping around their leader. He hadn’t fallen. And he was facing Pallass.

“I imagine they’ll scatter. 4th Army will have to hunt them down as they land and rest, but we’ve reduced their numbers by a full tenth. At least. If they come back this way, we’ll settle the matter, but even Wyverns should flee after that lesson.”

The Drake was going on, but Rekhassha tuned him out. Her brown eyes narrowed and she pressed the spyglass closer to her face.

“Day Strategist. Day Strategist! The Wyverns are regrouping. And they’re doing something!”

The Drake broke off. He stared at Rekhassha suspiciously, and then fished out his own seeing glass. He frowned.

The Wyverns were doing something. They were lined up in the air—not a wall, but more like a half-sphere. The Wyvern Lord was in the center. And they were—breathing?

From so far away Rekhassha could only see the white frost as all the Wyverns exhaled. The Day Strategist blinked.

“What is that? Are they breathing frost? They must be uncommon variants.”

“What are they doing?”

Rekhassha didn’t like it one bit. She stared at the Day Strategist. Her [Dangersense] was going off. The Day Strategist wavered. The Wyverns were concentrating their breath into a single point.

“I don’t—those are clearly Frost Wyverns. Maybe they’re trying to stop the spells? That’s a unique behavior. Nevertheless, even if they keep approaching we’ll hit them from angles. There’s nothing to fear, Watch Captain. They’re miles out. And frost breath can’t—”

He broke off. Rekhassha stared.

“It’s—condensing. What’s going on? Day Strategist!”

She pointed and snapped. The Day Strategist stared. His eyes bulged.

“What the—”

A thousand Wyverns breathed at once. The magic, freezing air blasted from their maws, mixing, multiplying the force—

Collecting in the air. The magical frost didn’t dissipate. But it gathered together. Against all logic. But it wasn’t just a biological trait. It was magic. A spinning orb of frozen air was whirling, frost and snow spinning faster and faster as the Wyverns kept exhaling.

“What’s that? In the air?”

One of the [Scouts] pointed. Rekhassha realized what it was.

“It’s some kind of mass-attack spell! Everyone, take cover!”

“There’s no way it can hit us from afar. Our best spells can barely reach—”

The Day Strategist looked around. [Soldiers] were taking cover behind the battlements. The Drake glared at Rekhassha. Then he heard a shriek.

The ball of frost shot forwards from the massed Wyverns. And the air tore around it. Rekhassha’s eyes went round.

“Brace! Activate the shield spells!”

She turned. The Day Strategist stared. The air was moving as the orb shot at Pallass’ walls. At him. It looked like—a ripple in the air.

Snow, and a blast of wind coming at them. Faster than any arrow. It covered a mile in five seconds. It was—

So fast.

The Drake reached for his key scrolls, clawing for the right one. Rekhassha threw herself behind a barrier of stone. She bellowed, tearing at her own key scrolls.

“Get to cover! Activate the scrolls!”

The Day Strategist gulped.

“Sound—”

The Day Strategist never finished the word. Faster than he could move, could speak, faster than sound came the blast of frost. The blizzard covered the entire wall. The orb exploded across the northern wall, and everything froze.

Everything. Across the eastern wall, [Soldiers] screamed as their armor turned frozen in a second. And they were thousands of feet from the blast! Even on the southern wall, the defenders felt the impact and the sudden, biting frost.

A [Lieutenant] Garuda caught herself as the sudden wind nearly blasted her into the air. She stared at the frost on her feathers and the pain suddenly radiating across her body. Like frostbite! But she stared at the wall.

She saw the figures on the northern wall. The distant Day Strategist, Rekhassha. The [Soldiers] and [Guards] in their cover. They were…pale.

White. The Lieutenant raised a speaking stone to her beak.

“Watch Captain Rekhassha? Day Strategist? What was that? Watch Captain? Come in! Anyone?”

There was no response. And as the [Lieutenant] stared—she realized none of the figures were moving. Her eyes went wide. She stared at a [Soldier] getting to his feet. He looked at her, color draining from his face.

“They’re dead—”

Frozen solid. Then came a shockwave, a thundering boom that shattered glass and made the ears of [Soldiers] and [Guards] across the wall ring. It threw the [Lieutenant] through the air. She flipped head over talons, barely avoided snapping her neck on the ground.

“What was—what was that?”

She stared. Then she looked up. A shadow dove at her. The [Lieutenant] looked up, shouted, and a pair of jaws cut her in half. The Wyvern Lord landed, crushing a Dullahan [Soldier] and screamed. He had been barely slower than the sonic boom. Racing in the vacuum created by the onslaught of frost and wind, the Wyvern hit the frozen wall, shattering the frozen forms.

For a moment, the [Soldiers] on the wall were stunned. They couldn’t comprehend what was happening. The Wyverns had retreated. And then—they couldn’t understand the frost attack, or the sonic boom that had hit the walls. What Teriarch had defeated in his duel with the Wyverns had caught the defenders of Pallass off-guard. They had forgotten. Small they might be, and bestial, savage.

But here flew the kin of Dragons. Now the Wyverns flew on the wall. Sucked into the vacuum of their attack, they struck the walls in an instant. For a moment, there was only paralysis. Then a Drake screamed.

“The alarm! Sound the alarm!”

Horns blew. The [Soldiers] scrambled for their weapons. But half were frozen. And the other half—the Wyverns dove. The smallest was thirty-feet long. And their hides were thick enough to shrug off sword blows like rain. They tore and shrieked and the Wyvern Lord roared.



—-



The explosion made every head in Pallass turn. Erin Solstice felt the Wyvern attack moments before it came. She looked up and saw the bloom of frost. Heard the sonic boom. She gaped as the temperature fell several degrees.

And then she saw them. Flying above like pale reflections of their kin.

They flew over the Walled City. And Erin heard them scream. Louder than her [Dangersense]. A full-throated shriek. A scream that told the people of Pallass there was no safe place the world over.

Wyverns. Erin was just staring. But the Wyverns began diving. They flew down, landing on lower floors, diving as fast as eagles, hitting targets with pinpoint precision. It was so sudden. One second the skies were clear, the next, it was snowing.

“What was that?”

“My ears—”

Rufelt and Lasica were stumbling. They hadn’t even realized what had happened. They were looking around wildly. Not even looking up yet. Erin just stared. She saw a huge Wyvern spreading its wings.

“Ancestors!”

Chaldion’s voice roused Erin. The old [Strategist] was staring up at the walls. His scales had gone white. He snatched something from his belt.

“Day Strategist! Watch Captain, report in!”

He bellowed, but there was no response. And the Wyverns kept flying. Not just one hundred. Hundreds. They poured over the walls, casting vast shadows below. And their leader raised his head and uttered a triumphant scream.

Prey! He had found it! And he had beaten the Dragon’s magic!

Erin heard a shriek that echoed throughout the Walled City. It reached inside of her and touched a primal part of her. Fear. A predator screamed and across Pallass, people looked up. They froze.

“What’s that? Are those…?”

“It’s an illusion. It has to be. That’s not—”

This wasn’t happening. This could not be real. Not like this. Not to Pallass. Disbelief froze almost everyone in their tracks. The first to move were adventurers. [Soldiers]. The Watch.

“Get inside! Inside!”

“Dead gods! Sound the alarm! Why aren’t the alarms ringing?”

A horn blew. Frantically, from atop the walls. Then it was cut off. Another sounded. And then another. Horns began screaming an alarm across the city. But still, the paralysis lasted another beat. As if this was a bad dream from which you might still wake.



—-



4th Army stared at the Wyverns attacking Pallass. They had seen the frost orb, seen the Wyverns loosing it at the city. Stunned, they stared as the Wyverns sped at the city in the vacuum. They saw the Wyverns flying at the Walled City, diving, taking the walls in the confusion caused by their attack. They stared. And then they ran for their home.



—-



Erin heard the wailing horns. She stared at the Wyverns. Lasica and Rufelt were frozen in shock. As still as statues. It was almost funny. Erin wanted to laugh at their expressions. She looked around. Everyone was frozen, but her. In pure disbelief.

But Erin believed. She looked up at the Wyverns.

“That’s not my fault. Is it?”

“Why would it be yours?”

Chaldion could move. He looked at her. His eyes were wide, but like her, he inhabited this second. This moment, as the Wyverns flew over Pallass, diving. Erin looked at him. They were too calm. Shock raced through one to the other.

“It is no one’s fault. But whoever was on that wall. Run and hide. We must take the walls.”

The [Strategist] was calmly looking up. Erin saw the Wyverns diving. Slowly, so slowly. She felt the [Immortal Moment] shaking around them. Chaldion looked at her.

“Good Skill. Don’t die. This was not your fault.”

He met her eyes. And Erin knew it was true. It was just poor timing. Chance. Maybe fate, but the gods were dead. A Dragon’s meddling.

Slowly, in the breaking [Immortal Moment], Chaldion reached down for his belt. He calmly pulled out a glittering scroll and unfurled it. Erin saw him read. The scroll glowed, and then the Drake spoke.

“Chaldion. By my authority as [Grand Strategist] of Pallass, I am issuing a city-wide alarm. Now.”

Erin felt the air shaking. The Grand Strategist drew himself up. He removed his eye patch, yanked out the azure eyeball and dropped it in his belt pouch. He replaced it with a fiery red gemstone. And when he spoke, his words were like thunder.

“Pallass is under attack.”

Erin heard the Drake’s crackling voice from all around her. It echoed through the entire city. Chaldion spoke.

“Wyverns are attacking Pallass. Get indoors! 1st Army, take the walls! Sound the alarm! Pallass is under attack!”

And it spread. The paralysis broke. Erin felt her [Immortal Moment] shatter. Rufelt grabbed Lasica, his face pale. She shouted in terror. They began to run.

And the Walled City moved. People pointed up and screamed. They fled for their houses. The Wyverns dove, and Drakes, Gnolls, Dullahans, and Garudas fled. Some turned to fight, grabbing weapons. And the word raced around the world.

Pallass is under attack!

The news hit the Blighted King’s courts. It was already being screamed from all five Walled Cities. Az’kerash sat up in his chair. Tyrion Veltras halted his horse, demanding an answer from the City Runner. Magnolia spat out her mouthful of tea.

Teriarch was fast asleep.

In Liscor, Watch Captain Zevara whirled. She abandoned searching the High Passes and stared at the Street Runner.

“Under attack? By what?”

The other [Guards] stared at her. But they already knew the answer.

“Wyverns.”



—-



In The Wandering Inn, the world was frozen. Lyonette, the servers, and the clients were all staring at the little scrying orb. Tersk had pulled it out when it had flashed and shrilled a sound unexpectedly.

Now, the world over, an image appeared. Wistram’s [Mages] caught the spell, throwing it. Lyonette stared at the orb, reflecting a Drake as he ran, and then a sky full of Wyverns. Then she looked at the magical door.

It was open to Pallass. In the center of the room, she saw a street covered with frost. It was snowing. And above—there was shadows. She heard screams, echoed moments later from the orb.

“Sound the alarm! Where’s the army?”

Lyonette looked around. The room was frozen. Klbkch was on his feet. So was Relc. The Drake was staring.

“How’d they get past the walls? No way. Pallass has a million spells—”

“Impossible.”

Bevussa was staring. Then—in the center of the orb, she saw the running, bobbing view stop.

Someone halted in the magical door. A panting Drake, gasping for air. His view swung around and for a second Lyonette saw herself through the magical door. He was holding up a glittering mirror, and wherever he turned it the view in the scrying orb reflected.

“Pallass is under attack! Ancestors! They’re everywhere—”

Another Drake raced into view, from the door and the scrying orb. He was wearing expensive clothes. He turned, not even seeing the occupants of The Wandering Inn staring at him. He shouted as the first Drake held up the mirror.

“This is Sir Relz of Pallass! We are under attack! Are we broadcasting? Hello? Pallass is under attack! We just saw—Noass! Are you alright?”

The other Drake started. Lyonette saw him jerk—the image jerked and then he was holding the mirror up. The two Drakes crowded into frame.

“I’m fine, Sir Relz. Dead gods! This—this is Noass, your [Commentator]. We’re just—we’re in the middle of an attack! There are Wyverns everywhere!”

“They’re diving out the skies! This is—my [Dangersense] went off a second before—some kind of shockwave in the air—”

“Sound the alarm! Why aren’t the wall spells activating?”

Noass bellowed over his shoulder. He looked around frantically.

“We’re under attack. Ancestors! Someone—”

He stopped. The viewpoint shifted again as he turned the mirror. He stared at the inhabitants of the inn. They stared back. The Drake breathed at them, panting, his voice ragged.

“We’re under attack. This is—this is the inn in Liscor, isn’t it?”

“Yes.”

Lyonette stared at him in shock. The Drake nodded. In pure shock. He looked at them. Pleadingly.

“Help. Someone—”

He pointed at the sky. Wyverns were flooding into the city. Lyonette looked at him, wide-eyed. And her face was reflected a hundred thousand times, the world over.

“It’s her.”

Lyonette’s father stared into the scrying basin. But then the viewpoint shifted. A Garuda surged to her feet.

Bevussa Slenderscale stood up. She looked at Pallass through the magical door. Her home. Her voice was a croak. Then a shout.

“Wings of Pallass. Wings. Pallass is under siege.”

Her teammates were still sitting at their table. Bevussa looked at them and then knocked the table over. She leapt towards the door.

“Wings of Pallass! To me!”

She flew. Zassil, Issa, and Kin leapt through the doorway in a second. Shock shattered as Keldrass overturned his table. His voice was a bellow, a scream.

“Get me my Flamewardens! To Pallass! The City of Invention must not fall!”

He charged at the magic door as Bevussa and half her team leapt through. Keldrass tried to follow, but collided with the wall as the magic ran out. He roared for his team, the Heartflame Armor, someone to recharge the door! Kin and Zassil shouting at each other as the Drake [Mage] put her claws on the door.

“Everyone back! Get back!”

Relc roared as he looked for his spear. Lyonette whirled. On the other side, she saw Bevussa and Issa whirling, looking at the magic door. Then the Garuda took wing. The image followed her up as she flew straight up. Issa was behind her.

“There. Go! Go!”

The view swung down. Kin and Zassil flew after. Lyonette saw the door flicker. Go out. Reappear again as another [Mage] in her inn grabbed the door. She saw herself.

And the Wyverns. They flew. And in The Wandering Inn, as Noass and Sir Relz ran, shouting into the scrying orb, the Wings of Pallass flew. And for once, The Wandering Inn was only witness. They stared, as one of the six Walled Cities fell under attack.

In the silence, Lyonette saw Tersk put the scrying orb on the table. Everyone crowded around it. Or the magic door as it recharged. And only one voice was clearly audible in the silence.

“Ooh. Big birds. I am so very envious.”

Bird stared through the magical door. He looked up at the sky full of Wyverns and then at Lyonette’s pale face. He paused.

“I mean…oh no? Oh no. They did not attack Liscor? Oh no…I mean, yes. This is good.”

Bird paused.

“I am so jealous.”





7.03


“Pallass is under attack.”

It was one of those sentences that you could say too many times. And it was such an innocuous set of words. Pallass is under attack.

If you had no idea of the Walled City the name referred to, much less the significance of that statement, the line would pass you by. In Baleros’ cities, many might ask where that was, or which city. They might recognize it, but again, only from afar. It was not their continent, not their species. Who cared?

But that was a terribly selfish point of view. Understandable, but selfish. Who cared what happened if one of the Drake Walled Cities fell?

The answer was: everyone. Everyone who thought about the future. About the position of the Drakes and their feud with the Human-controlled north. Who knew of the placement of the Antinium Hives. Anyone who knew the Necromancer of Terandria lived.

Not just Drakes. In the Blighted King’s courts, King Othius the Fourth felt a chill. His court fell silent. Yes, it was the Blighted Kingdom of Rhir, separated by thousands of miles from Izril’s politics. And yes, most of Rhir’s people would have laughed at the petty wars and challenges that the Izrilian people regarded as important.

However, the people of Rhir also knew that their arms, the steel they used in battle against their ancient foe was wrought of metal mined in other continents. Shipped across seas by fleets of other nations. And Drakes bled on Rhir’s soil, dying far from home to fulfill ancient oaths.

“Send for my court of war. Bring me more scrying devices.”

Othius looked to his left. Nereshal, his steward, bowed. The [Chronomancer] swept from the room, moving at a walk—but still faster than the running messengers who had brought the news. And Othius looked into the scrying orb that had been placed on the pedestal before him. His nobility stood silent, watchful. Wary.

For anyone who thought Rhir could stand against the Demons alone was a fool. And now, the Blighted King had seen one of the six pillars that held up the Drake species shake. He looked into the scrying glass and saw.



—-



“Wyverns.”

The King of Destruction looked up. His eyes sharpened as he balanced the tiny scrying orb on his palm. He stared into the orb. It was indeed an odd thing, to see an event unfolding across the world in a moment’s notice. Stranger still to think it was commonplace in another world.

But scrying orbs had existed since anyone could remember. The odd thing was that there was now a system in place, and a mentality that allowed events to be broadcast the world over. Wistram was behind it; Flos had heard the shrill sound and flash from the scrying orb. That in itself was highly suspicious, and the King of Destruction had not appreciated the thought that his scrying orb was a vessel that could be…found.

Gazi the Omniscient liked it as much as her [King]. All but one of the half-Gazer’s eyes were fixed on the scrying orb, and narrowed. She looked at the King of Destruction.

“My lord.”

“I know, Gazi. So that’s the way of it, is it?”

Flos stared into the scrying orb thoughtfully. He shook his head, ruefully.

“You warned me as much. But I will take this as confirmation. Still—”

He paused, and grinned.

“It’s too much of a lure for me to resist the bait. Pallass is under attack? Amerys couldn’t break Zeres. And Wyverns, of all things?”

The King of Destruction grinned like a hunting wolf.

“Have you fought such beasts, Gazi? I’ve encountered them only twice.”

“Yes, my lord. They are native to Izril. Chandrar is inhospitable to most species.”

“And how dangerous are they?”

Gazi thoughtfully paused.

“You have fought Griffins, my lord?”

“Of course. Can you ride Wyverns?”

“Yes. And they are larger than Griffins. Scaled. These look like variants of the species. Stronger.”

Flos Reimarch grew more interested by the second.

“[Griffin Riders] were always a dangerous force. Do the Drakes have [Wyvern Riders]?”

“Fissival. Orthenon would know more.”

“Yes. Fascinating. I’d love to be there. And this is the way of it. Whenever something happens now, it must be…”

Flos waved a hand at the scrying orb, and his tone suggested distaste as much as mild interest. He glanced at Gazi. Then at the orb.

“And we watch. I am beginning to understand more of what Trey and Teres tell me about entertainment in their world.”

“Yes, your Majesty.”

“And one more thing.”

Flos Reimarch looked into the scrying orb. And his eyes stared past the scene of Pallass in chaos. He ignored the frantic Drake’s voice as Noass shouted at Lyonette, and the view swung to The Wandering Inn. One of Gazi’s eyes locked into the image, and Relc’s and Klbkch’s faces. But Flos Reimarch stared into the orb itself. At the magical glass.

“How convenient of Wistram to broadcast this image the world over. Do you see me, Archmage Feor?”

He leaned over the orb. And across the world, a [Diviner] monitoring the spell felt her heart skip a beat as the King of Reim looked straight at her. She backed up and the other [Mages] staring back through the magical connection froze. Flos Reimarch’s voice was pleasant.

“Give me back Amerys. Show her to me, Archmage. I am losing my patience. And I will break your academy to find her.”

That was all he said. Then the King of Destruction sat back and his gaze focused on the image in the scrying orb. He looked at Gazi.

“Even so, fascinating.”

Flos clapped his hands and the door opened.

“Your majesty?”

He turned to the [Servant].

“Go to the treasury, and find a larger scrying orb. I’m sure we looted one from Germina or Hellios. Fetch me Trey and Teres as well. And Mars—send her a [Message] to find a scrying orb.”

The [Servant] bowed. Flos sighed as he sat back. He nodded to Gazi.

“This would be an opportune time to try that ‘popcorn’ Trey kept telling me about, wouldn’t it?”

She smiled. The King of Destruction clapped his hands again. Then he began watching. Such was the luxury of a spectator, and perhaps, the arrogance of [Kings]. But it was true that the world over, people were watching.

And why not? It was one thing to hear of battles won, and great events. Another to see them as they happened. This world was caught by a phenomenon Trey and Teres were well aware of. Flos had yet to put a name to it, but he already saw it, even if he could not yet grasp what it might become. That strange thing.

Spectacle.



—-



They watched the world over. Niers Astoragon paused in a lunch with Foliana. He looked up.

“Wyverns hit Pallass? Impossible. They have a Tier 7, city-wide defensive spell. And the spell is powered by their walls. Even a regular [Mage] capable of hitting them with Tier 7 spells wouldn’t be able to break through.”

“Mm. Wyverns can’t do it usually. Pass the butter.”

Foliana agreed. Niers ignored her; the butter saucer moved past him as Foliana picked it up.

“They must have been caught off-guard. Typical. That’s how they get you. Millions of gold pieces of enchantments and thousands of [Soldiers] and some idiot forgets to activate a spell. Even so—those must be Frost Wyverns. See the snow?”

The [Grandmaster Strategist] was already thinking out loud.

“Bestiary. There must be something on Wyvern abilities. Either they flew above Pallass’ line of sight—creating a blizzard and flying in by stealth? No—get me the [Messages] from the Walled Cities. And a bestiary on Wyverns. All of them.”

He turned to the officer who’d brought him the news. The Titan sat back as Foliana peered at the scrying orb.

“It made a sound.”

The Titan nodded. He leaned back; Foliana had coincidentally placed the butter so that it would obstruct the scrying mirror’s view of the Fraerling. In cover, Niers raised a finger, touched one eye, then traced ‘W’ in the air. Foliana blinked once with both eyes. Neither his face or the Squirrel Beastkin’s moved an inch as he sat forwards.

“Foliana, put that butter somewhere else. There’s enough there to stop my heart five times over.”

“Mm.”

She moved it. Niers Astoragon looked at the scrying orb. Unconsciously, one hand drummed on the table. He had nothing to gain or lose by Pallass’ falling. He knew of the Antinium of course, but from where Niers sat, the fate of a Walled City was less important. Like Flos, he was just an interested member of the worldwide audience.

Except that wasn’t entirely true. If you were looking—and no one but Foliana was—you might see the slightest, tiniest clues of stress on the Fraerling. He told himself it was nothing. It was Pallass, not Liscor. But his eyes searched the inn as Noass turned to face the magic door.

“Help. Someone—”

Niers ignored the Drake’s voice. He stared into the inn. Looking at faces he recognized, vaguely. But searching. Searching for her.

He didn’t see her. And the Titan’s fingers drummed faster on the tiny lunch table. He told himself that he didn’t know. That it was just a guess. Not to make assumptions. And after all, it was Pallass. There was no way. But he didn’t see her. And the Titan of Baleros watched, searching for a face.

Foliana watched too. She watched her old friend staring at the scrying orb. And her attention was more on him than the events in the City of Invention. Because Wyverns were just monsters. But what she saw was fascinating. Slowly, ever so slowly, she lifted a raw egg to her mouth and slurped it down. The Squirrel-woman paused.

“Nasty.”



—-



If the world was a map, and attention a flickering point of light, then the words summoned a growing sea of lights. First, they flickered on and off, like fireflies. But then there was a swell, a gathering of light from every continent. Some came for idle amusement, others to speculate on the future, for personal gain or because the news affected them in ways large or small.

A father watched his daughter in a scrying pool. A sister nearly choked on the spoonful of gelato as her suitor stared at her in consternation. She dabbed the sticky liquid from her neckline, biting back an exclamation.

“Isn’t that…?”

A young woman’s face, so changed that only her family would be sure, sure it was her. And even then, not completely. Others looked upon the Antinium and shuddered. The Blighted King stared at his foes and his eyes narrowed.

But these were passing sights. The image reflected in the scrying orb was of one thing alone. The attack on Pallass. And the world watched.

…But damn the world. Who cared what they thought? The sentence screamed across the Drake cities, far louder there than anywhere else. It mattered to Izril. Tyrion Veltras watched with cold attention, neither smiling nor frowning. Magnolia Reinhart clutched her dress, white-knuckled. And they were only Humans.

In Manus, the war council sprinted into the meeting room where the scrying orb had been set up. [Hunt Commander] Makhir nearly ran down General Milka. He was panting from the run from the walls.

Dragonspeaker Luciva Skybreath was only a beat behind the others. She charged into the room, and the [Strategist] whirled. In the inner keep of Manus, Luciva could hear more shouts as Wall Lords and Ladies, and the other protectors of the City of War scrambled for a room to see the situation for themselves.

“Report!”

She bellowed. The [Strategist] replied at a shout even as Rafaema stopped, nearly colliding with Luciva’s back. The young Drake woman flexed her wings. She’d flown here. The others clustered around the scrying orb as the Gnoll [Strategist] spoke, words tumbling from his mouth.

“Pallass is under attack. They report a Wyvern assault from the walls. Grand Strategist Chaldion has issued a city-wide alarm.”

“Wyverns?”

For a second those gathered in the room looked at each other. Wall Lord Kishield looked blankly around.

“Does that mean…Oldbloods?”

The other people in the room looked at him. Makhir opened his mouth, and General Milka snapped.

“No! This isn’t a damn code. These are actual Wyverns.”

“What?”

Two more were crowding Rafaema. She turned and they backed up. Dragonspeaker Luciva turned. She nodded to the young Wall Lady. Everyone was on their feet, and slowly they began spreading around the circular table.

“Impossible. Wyverns can’t assault Pallass. No—is it Fissival? Damn them! If they’ve launched a surprise attack—”

“Maybe Salazsar? There was that dispute with the Trisstral Alliance. If Salazsar is replying to Pallass backing the alliance—”

“Impossible. There’s no way they’d have hired Fissival—”

“What about from Elleis?”

The babble of military voices was cut short by the [Strategist]. The Gnoll snapped, his voice cutting his superiors short.

“They’re not mounted! These are wild Wyverns, as far as we can tell!”

Manus’ elite stared at the [Strategist]. Not in offense over him interrupting, but pure shock.

“Impossible.”

This time the word was flat and it came from half a dozen throats. Dragonspeaker Luciva stared into the scrying orb, but it was a blur—someone was running. Sound was filtering through, but it was just a din of shrieks, screams, explosions—

It was the sound of a battlefield. Luciva could pick out the distinctive hunting scream of the Wyverns, but little else. She turned.

“Do we have another viewpoint?”

“Negative, Dragonspeaker. The anti-scrying wards are in full effect.”

“Then the walls aren’t down and the spells aren’t comprised. How did a weyr of Wyverns—?”

“I have a report here. Wyverns sighted, count above one thousand. Liscor spotted them first, and they were confirmed on a southern course, heading straight for Pallass.”

Spearmaster Lulv pounded a furred fist onto the table.

“Liscor! How many attacks has this been? This cannot be a coincidence. Is this the Human’s retaliation?”

“There is no [Beast Master] in the north capable of moving an entire weyr at once. It might be possible if they controlled the leader, say—”

Voices. There was no orderly chain of command where one person raised their arm and went first, nor any niceties like, say, Pallass’ Assembly of Crafts. And that could be a contentious room when things got heated. But in Manus’ circles, the leaders of the Walled City were [Generals] and [Commanders], officers used to taking charge. They shouted over each other.

Luciva Skybreath tuned them all out. Her mind focused, dividing the situation into pieces. The whole was too confusing, the facts unknown. She breathed in and out. And time…

Slowed…

The Dragonspeaker opened her eyes. Her mind raced a thousand miles a second, ahead of the voices. She stared at the scrying orb. And when she spoke, her voice cut through even the loudest shout.

“Oldblood Drakes. I want every single flier capable of reaching Pallass within eight hours moving. No—have them on alert. Officers with speed skills in position.”

The other commanders in the room looked towards Luciva. Some were nodding, but then a young voice spoke up.

“Done.”

The youngest occupant of the room by far folded her arms. Rafaema met Luciva’s eyes calmly as the Dragonspeaker spun. Rafaema, a Wall Lady by rank, seemed one of the least fazed by the situation unfolding in the scrying orb. She nodded at Luciva.

“I ordered them to go to alert when I got the message. Four full wings. They’re already heading towards Pallass.”

The Dragonspeaker met Rafaema’s eyes and surprise flickered in her gaze for only a moment. Then she snapped at the Gnoll [Strategist].

“Send a counter order for the wings to hold their position.”

She nodded towards Rafaema. The younger Drake shrugged, flexing her brilliant wings slightly. Dragonspeaker Luciva looked around the table.

“Even at max flight speed, they will not reach Pallass in time. The intervention might be unneeded. Or worse.”

“Nothing like an unwanted companion to the chase. Pallass would take offence.”

Hunt Commander Makhir nodded. He glanced at Rafaema. The younger Drake shrugged.

“And if the Walled City falls?”

General Milka consulted a tome. The pages fluttered without her touching them as the Drake stared at the information. She looked up and shook her head.

“They will not. I don’t know how the Wyverns took the walls, but they should have…1st Army and 4th in position. Either one should be able to repel the attack. And if the Wyverns possess greater numbers or abilities—they can take cover. A few minutes’ difference won’t change the results.”

“And what are the odds of that? I can’t believe they gained the city.”

“There are precedents. What species of Wyvern are these? If they’re rare variants—Hunt Commander, thoughts?”

The Gnoll scratched a scar along his chin, where he’d taken a wound from an encounter with a Wyvern.

“I’ve heard reports of Wyverns causing volcanic eruptions and launching attacks in the ash clouds. And I’ve seen them with any number of abilities. There are variants in Baleros that camouflage themselves. But in numbers? I have never encountered a weyr over two hundred. And the group I saw was ordinary. I don’t know what they might have done.”

“Pool their breath attacks.”

Again, Rafaema spoke up. Every head turned towards her. Dragonspeaker Luciva inclined her head slightly.

“What do you mean by that, Wall Lady Rafaema?”

The young Drake shrugged.

“I’ve been reading older accounts. Wyverns and Oldblood Drakes can pool their magical abilities together. In fact, A Drake riding a Wyvern can combine his attack with the Wyvern’s. Even different elements. I’ve seen it done. There was a flying wing in Manus eighty years ago that used that tactic.”

Her tail flicked back and forth as she spoke. The other leaders looked at each other. Each one nodded. General Milka nodded to herself, doing a quick check of her tome.

“Report, Dragonspeaker. Pallass’ protections spells did not activate. Some were used, but I’m getting more [Messages]. Summarized—confirmation of Grand Strategist’s alert. Pallass is under attack by feral Wyverns. Frost Wyverns.”

“Impossible.”

Someone muttered it a third time. Not in shock, but now just disbelief. Dragonspeaker Luciva’s lips twisted.

“They didn’t activate the protection spells?”

“Must have been caught off-guard. Idiots. They didn’t get Chaldion. He can fight them off.”

“There’s no way they’ll take the city.”

“But the death toll has to be in the hundreds already. Thousands, maybe. Listen.”

That calm voice came from Spearmaster Lulv. He was leaning on the table, looking at the scrying orb. Now, all the voices in the war room fell silent.

This is what they all saw, the world over. A shaking, moving street. No—someone running while holding whatever was providing the magical image. In Manus, the leaders heard a wheezing pant, a cough—

Shrieks in the distance, tearing the air. Faint at first, and then growing louder. The viewpoint jerked up as a scream increased in volume. The image revealed a huge, plummeting shape. A Wyvern sixty feet long dropped out of the air, diving. Its hunting scream reached a crescendo as it flashed past the onlooker.

The image shook, a visible flinch. And then, pattering footfalls. Someone else ran into view.

“Take cover! Take cover! Get inside!”

A Drake ran into view. The perspective changed, and Dragonspeaker Luciva saw a pair of Dullahans running towards an open door. A Drake was shouting at them, waving at them as he ran towards the scrying orb. Luciva saw a young, frightened Dullahan boy grabbing at a sister. The sister nearly dropped her head as he ran towards the Gnoll holding the door open.

For a second Luciva closed her eyes, seeing the girl’s face. Not because it was someone she knew, but because it was familiar. Then she forced her eyes open.

The first Drake was catching his breath. He looked around wildly, ducked as another shadow passed overhead. So did whoever was holding the magical device providing the image. The first Drake looked up, then spoke breathlessly.

“I—I think we’re clear. Are we still broadcasting?”

“I believe so.”

Someone fumbled with the mirror. Another Drake appeared in frame, and part of his arm. The two Drakes were both male, both familiar. One—the one with the arm holding the magical scrying device—had a monocle, dangling from a chain loop secured around one of his neck-spines. He was expensively dressed. His comrade was less so, but the two were a well-fed pair.

The first Drake spoke in a rush after gaining his voice back.

“This is Sir Relz and Noass, your [Commentators] coming to you live from Pallass! Is ‘live’ the word we’re using, Sir Relz? Where’s the logic in that?”

“Who cares, Noass? Pallass is under attack! It’s been bare minutes and we—”

Both Drakes ducked as a Wyvern shot down past them. Noass shouted.

“Get inside! Get off the streets!”

Sir Relz was speaking into the mirror as he tried to angle it, showing the audience a view of the skies—and then a close-up of the side of his face. He was inept at placing the viewpoint just right.

“Ancestors damn it, get out of the way! Show us numbers! Where’s the army?”

Someone growled in Manus’ war room, but it was otherwise completely silent. Sir Relz was still panting for breath.

“We’re using a portable scrying mirror—and under the effects of [Spectator’s Concealment]! Which we’ve gained as a result of our class. So long as we don’t interfere, it is extremely effective as long as the Wyverns are occupied! This—we’re—Noass, how did this happen?”

The other Drake jumped. His jaw worked soundlessly.

“I—we all heard a massive explosion! Someone on the walls, I think. Then there was a chill—and Wyverns were attacking! Grand Strategist Chaldion shouted the alarm and then—how did this happen? We—we’ll have a better view from the edge of the 8th floor. Come on—”

Sir Relz’s pale face again, then more running. The Dragonspeaker looked around.

“Massive explosion?”

“Combined dragonbreath.”

Rafaema’s voice was certain. Some of the others nodded, looking sideways at her. She was an oddity. Despite her age, they all gave her a level of deference no one else commanded. She was striking. Beautiful, in a way that even the other Oldblood Drakes were not, that even Dragonspeaker Luciva wasn’t, for all her heritage was among the purest of all Drakes.

The young female Drake looked no older than…twenty three. Which was impossible, given the station she was accorded. The way she looked about, the understanding in her eye made her older than her appearance. She was poised, intent.

And she was a Dragon.

But that was irrelevant to this moment. Rafaema’s eyes were locked on the scene unfolding in Pallass with everyone else. And Dragonspeaker Luciva saw the image halt at the edge of the 8th Floor. The two Drakes stared out in horror at their city.

And Dragonspeaker Luciva saw what they did. Pallass, the City of Invention, was under attack. Wyverns flew through the skies, casting huge shadows above the Walled City. It was snowing. And the Wyverns were attacking.

There weren’t many of them. For a city of Pallass’ size, the near-thousand of them weren’t a vast horde that would blot out the skies. But the Wyverns were huge. And the sight of them there, breathing frost and diving down on the small figures below—

It shook the world. It pierced Dragonspeaker Luciva’s heart, and the war room went still. This was the nightmare Manus’ children had sworn to avert. But they were not alone in seeing it.

Watch. Flos of Reim stared at the Walled City and smiled that predator’s grin, his hand itching. The Blighted King sighed. Niers Astoragon cursed while Foliana tried to eat another raw egg.

In his chair, the Necromancer, Az’kerash, watched with a raised eyebrow, almost mockingly. Incredulous more than anything else.

And Tyrion Veltras smiled. His eyes shone with a cold light.

Attention. More and more joined to see. Spectacle. Tragedy. Triumph too, but it was all one thing. And more strange watchers still.

“I see Pallass. It is smaller than I thought. And weaker still.”

“Perhaps, my Queen.”

Xrn of the Centenium spoke softly. The hovering image of Pallass she had conjured reflected off the huge eyes of the Grand Queen of the Antinium. Now, even the Antinium watched. With glee. With cold analysis. With incredulity.

Watch. Noass stared over the edge as the scrying mirror caught part of Sir Relz’s slack face. The Drake’s scales were white, drained of blood. It was the other [Commentator], Noass, who began screaming.

“Ancestors! Look out! They’re dive-bombing the lower floors!”

He pointed. More Wyverns were diving. They hunted like eagles. The huge, scaled monsters dove and struck their prey, carrying them up, tearing at them. If you looked, you could see struggling shapes falling as the Wyverns bit. Or the beasts just breathed their killing frost and tore apart the frozen shapes.

“What happened to the [Soldiers] on the walls?”

Noass screamed. Sir Relz’s voice was distant.

“This isn’t possible. Pallass can’t be—where’s the army?”

The image jerked. There was fighting below. You could stare down into Pallass’ heart. And there was a glint of steel below, running figures. But so far away. And the Wyverns—Noass ducked as one flew past, but the Wyvern ignored the two Drakes. Its serpentine neck was covered in blood. And it looked—it looked like it was laughing.

They had stolen the skies. The two Drakes looked at each other. Noass’ face was frozen with horror, but then he faced the image. And the [Commentator] did the only thing he could: speak.

“Pallass—everyone. If you can hear me! Get indoors! My name is Noass, and I am live on the attack on Pallass! If anyone can hear me—any adventurers nearby, any Drake forces! Pallass under attack! I don’t know what’s happened on the walls! But we’re going to find out. Someone—anyone. We saw the door to Liscor is open. Flee through it! Adventurers, [Soldiers]—”

His voice broke. Sir Relz appeared in frame. Luciva recognized him at last. One of Pallass’ nobility. A Wall Lord, but without the emphasis on rank and station other Walled Cities accorded him. Nevertheless, he looked dead into the image, and Dragonspeaker Luciva met his eyes.

“This is an emergency. Anyone who can hear this in Pallass, seek cover. Indoors! We will broadcast the image as long as we can. We are counting hundreds, repeat hundreds, of Wyverns. If anyone can send help—”

Luciva had heard enough. The Dragonspeaker looked around.

“Send the wings. Now.”

Hunt Commander Makhir raced out of the room. In Pallass, Noass was turning.

“It’s so cold. Dead gods, there’s frost on the upper part of the ninth floor and the ramparts—there. You see? It looks like the Wyverns overtook the walls—we’ll have to get up there. But where…?”

He looked at Sir Relz. The other Drake shook his head.

“I don’t know. Perhaps the explosion? I—I—the stairs? The elevators are surely not working…”

The wide-eyed Drakes were familiar to some viewers. After all, they had achieved a minor fame during their impromptu commentary of the attack on Liscor. And then the other one. Indeed, they’d even gained a class. But this was a new side of the Drake pair.

They sounded a bit harried, a bit stressed. As if this attack was more personal, more immediate than their commentary on any battle before this. And someone watching, from say, Liscor, might have found that a bit ironic.

But no one was laughing in The Wandering Inn. Lyonette stared at the scrying orb and then at the magical door. Relc had dragged it into the common room when they’d heard about the attack. Now—she stared at a street where snow was falling.

“We have to do something.”

Selys was white-faced. She looked around wildly.

“Keldrass?”

“His team’s on the way. He’s in Liscor, getting the Heartflame Breastplate.”

Relc called out tersely. He had his spear out and was tensed, ready to move. Lyonette heard a shriek, louder through the door than the scrying orb. She looked around for Mrsha; the Gnoll was holding Apista, safely behind Pawn. The Antinium were all on their feet. Even Bird was downstairs, staring at the Wyverns longingly.

“The Wings…?”

“They went through. Selys, get back. It’s too dangerous to get near the door.”

Lyonette looked around.

“We shouldn’t have brought it out there. Relc. Bring it back. Put it in the hallway.”

The Drake [Spearmaster] started.

“The Wyverns can’t—”

He looked around. Krshia, Elirr, Gnolls, Drakes—the Senior Guardsman hesitated, then he nodded. He grabbed the door.

“We have to do something. Where’s Zevara? Change the door back to Liscor! Can we send anyone?”

Lism was on his feet. It was Olesm who shook his head.

“No. Uncle. Wyverns are a Gold-rank threat! And the door doesn’t have the mana to send enough people. Let me go to Liscor. I’m getting Guildmistress Alonna and every [Mage] I can find. We have to send the Flamewardens through!”

“What about—get the other Gold-rank teams! Can’t we send anyone else?”

Lism stared around, frustrated. Relc had disappeared and Olesm with him. But the other occupants of the inn? Lyonette was checking on Mrsha. The Gnoll was hugging Pawn’s back. The Worker looked at the Gnoll, into the scrying orb. The two Drakes were trying to shout at people to get indoors. Pawn stood up abruptly.

“I will go.”

“What?”

The [Priest] looked around. Yellow Splatters nodded. The [Sergeant] turned his head.

“Painted Antinium, with me.”

The Soldiers stepped forwards as one. Lyonette spun.

“No! Pawn—”

Belgrade was also present for the inn’s reopening. The [Strategist] shook his head.

“The door doesn’t have the mana for so many, even if Strategist Olesm gets the [Mages].”

“Then a core of Antinium. Pawn, you will stay behind.”

“I must go. I can hea—”

“No one is going through that door.”

Klbkch’s voice ran through the inn. The Antinium and other guests stopped. Everyone looked at him. Klbkch’s arms were folded.

“Antinium are not allowed in Pallass. To go through would be an act of war.”

Yellow Splatters paused. Pawn looked at Klbkch and his mandibles parted. But slowly, he sat back down. Lyonette’s head turned.

“Erin’s over there.”

Krshia found her. The Gnoll’s paw gripped Lyonette’s arm, and her brown eyes caught Lyonette’s. With her other paw, the [Shopkeeper] stroked Mrsha’s head.

“We must wait. Olesm will find reinforcements.”

“That’s right. I’ll—I’ll go to the hallways. Call out to anyone on the streets. They can come through.”

Selys stood up shakily. Lism pushed past her.

“I’ll do it. You stay back! All of you—no one goes in that hallway! If a Wyvern breathes frost—stay here!”

He shoved the door open. Lyonette looked around. No one was speaking. This was like the other attacks on Liscor, but those had been immediate, terrifying, but present. This—this was almost worse. They were watching the attack unfold and it was unbearable.

“Can we…no. No—Ishkr! Drassi!”

The two oldest workers at the inn looked up. Lyonette whirled around.

“Healing potions. Erin has a stockpile. And acid jars! We have some—get me everything you can! We’ll push it through the door!”

They had to do something. Moved to action, the other occupants of the inn began talking. Lyonette ran into the kitchen, Apista buzzing after her, stinger poised. She rushed back out with a crate in her hands, trying not to drop the glowing green acid in the bottles and heard a shout.

There was suddenly silence. Lyonette froze. In the scrying orb, Noass was pointing. The two Drakes were trying to get to some stairs, but they’d come across a Wyvern.

It was flying over the heads of some apartments. Low—and huge. And it was pursuing—Lyonette nearly dropped the crate.

An Oldblood Drake. But a child. The Drake was flying frantically. Noass was waving his arms and shouting.

“Get down! Get below the buildings!”

The Drake wasn’t listening. Lyonette saw the image shake, trying to follow the Drake—and then the Wyvern dove. She heard a scream—the image changed again.

The Wyvern had caught the Drake. And worse, it had heard Noass. The [Commentator] froze as the Skill hiding him failed. The Wyvern landed, crushing the Drake it had caught under one paw. The Drake child was screaming and Noass was backing up. He was fumbling at his belt for…a dagger. Sir Relz’ claw shook on the scrying orb.

“My wand—[Firefly]—”

The two Drakes backed up. The Wyvern was staring at them. A second set of eyelids flashed across its eyes as it stared at the [Commentators]. Narrowly, as if trying to figure out if they were there. But then its maw opened. Lyonette saw a dark red mouth. Opening wide, wide. The Wyvern inhaled and Noass threw himself to one side.

A flash of green hurtled out of the sky. A feathered shape dove. And Bevussa Slenderscale drove the shortsword through the Wyvern’s eye. She landed, and Zassil crashed into the Wyvern’s jaw. The frost breath caught in the Wyvern’s mouth as he slammed the jaws shut.

“Bevussa!”

Lyonette screamed. So did half the patrons in the inn. They were on their feet. Bevussa pushed the sword deeper, and the Wyvern’s eyeball gushed around it. Two other shapes dove.

“Issa! Now! [Pillar of Earth]!”

A Drake landed on the ground as another Drake pointed a wand from above. Kin’s spell caused a section of the street to rise, shoving one of the Wyvern’s claws up. The other Drake, Issa, dove. She yanked the young Drake out from under the claw as the Wyvern recoiled. She was away in a moment.

“Bevussa! Dodge!”

The Garuda flipped backwards just in time. The Wyvern’s head snapped and tore the air where she had been as Zassil was thrown off. The Wyvern screamed, blasting the air, but the four fliers were already away.

Noass and Sir Relz stared as Issa landed next to them. She shoved the young Drake at them. Noass caught the Drake and Issa shouted.

“Get clear! Get to safety!”

She was in the air in a moment. Bevussa, Zassil, and Kin were flitting about the Wyvern. It flapped its wings and tried to tag them with the frost breath. Bevussa’s shortsword was still buried in its eye, and the adventurers used that to their advantage, flying in the Frost Wyvern’s blind spot.

“That’s—that’s an adventuring team! Our team!”

Noass’ voice was stunned. He pointed as Bevussa dove again. The Garuda had a spear this time, pulled from a bag of holding. She was aiming for the Wyvern’s neck as it tried to fly. Bevussa thrust the steel-tipped spear and it penetrated the Wyvern’s neck. Not deep, but as the Garuda yanked it free, blood sprayed and the Wyvern screamed again. It flew, and the Wings of Pallass flew after it.

“I believe that was the Wings of Pallass.”

Sir Relz looked shakily up at the sky. Noass stared. Then he found his voice.

“It was! Pallass’ Gold-rank team! The Wings of Pallass! That was Zassil, the team captain, and Bevussa, their Garuda flier! They’re using boar spears—Ancestors! Look!”

Again the view swiveled, and the audience of the world saw the Wyvern just in time to see it fall. Bevussa yanked her shortsword out of the eye as Issa and Zassil cut the Wyvern across the neck. Their blades opened the cut Bevussa had made and the two Oldblood Drakes pulled the wound open, cutting and slashing.

The Frost Wyvern fell with a scream. Noass and Sir Relz shouted. Lyonette heard a cheer. The Wandering Inn’s patrons were all on their feet. They shouted, screaming for the Wings of Pallass.

For victory. That was part of it, too, spectacle. And now, the Wings of Pallass soared higher, circling the city. Noass pointed.

“After them!”

Lyonette didn’t remember putting down the crate of acid jars. She only realized she’d joined the audience. As Sir Noass and Relz raced through the city, trying to track the four Gold-rank adventurers and shouting commentary, she watched.

But that was the thing. They were all observers, even Sir Relz and Noass, who’d been part of it for a moment. All they could do was watch. But Bevussa flew.



—-



It was snowing. Her city was shadowed by huge storm clouds, unleashing not rain but fat snowflakes. Bevussa felt them on her feathers as she flew, felt the chill. But she’d never felt more on fire in her life.

Wyverns’ shrieks tore through the sky. They filled the airspace of Pallass, diving, breathing—

Wyverns. How had it happened? Bevussa had never seen so many, never all at once. And these ones—they were bigger, and their color was different than what she knew. The Garuda’s mind was racing, but there was only one fact.

This was her city. She flapped her wings for altitude and shouted.

“Wings! On me!”

Bevussa was flying higher, scouting out the city. She was looking for—something. Anything. But all she saw was chaos.

The battlements were gone. The bulk of the Wyverns were still on it, feasting on the dead. Bevussa saw a huge part of the north and western walls was…frozen. Ice covered everything, as if some massive spell had detonated there.

If there was any blessing, it was that the Wyverns had first stopped to gorge on the dead on the battlements. But more Wyverns were diving into the city for more food at the moment.

And the city? Bevussa looked down and saw distant specks. People on each floor running for cover. It had been bare minutes since the alarm had gone out and everyone had been caught unaware. The Gold-rank adventurer’s eyes narrowed as she saw smaller shapes than the Wyvern.

Flying? The Garuda cursed as she realized what she was seeing. Zassil called out.

“Bevussa! Civilians in the air!”

“I see them!”

Dozens—no, hundreds of them. Garuda and Oldblood Drakes, the only species in Pallass with the ability to fly. Bevussa swore a blue streak.

It was the instinct of Garuda to fly when they were in danger. Oldblood Drakes blessed with wings were different, but the young of both species learned from each other. It was idiotic to do with flying Wyverns, but the children had forgotten their heads in their panic! Now, they were in the air, trying to avoid the Wyverns or even fight back.

Bevussa saw an Oldblood Drake shooting lightning at a Wyvern before one dove and crushed her against the ground. Another was pursuing a Garuda and the screaming teen was diving between buildings as the Wyvern gained altitude. Bevussa knew it was about to dive.

“Down!”

She dropped. Bevussa dove through the air and her enchanted shortsword was in her talons. She hit the Wyvern across the wing. Too risky to go for the eyes. She slashed and her sword cut into the thick membrane of the Wyvern’s wing.

It shrieked at the unexpected attack. The Wyvern turned, and the other three Wings hit it. Zassil had his spear and went straight through a part of the Wyvern’s wings. Issa and Kin were throwing spells with wands, flashes of [Light] and Kin’s fire, distracting the Wyverns.

“Back!”

The four adventurers were flying backwards even before the Wyvern tried to breathe. They couldn’t stick around for a fight, not with something heavier and stronger than all of them combined! Bevussa twisted in the air, looking for the Garuda the Wyvern had been chasing. Where was—?

“Bevussa! It’s targeting you!”

Kin’s voice alerted Bevussa just in time. She dove and the Wyvern’s jaws snapped as it nearly bit her in half. She flew, diving lower, but the Wyvern was hot on her tail feathers.

“Captain!”

It was fast! Bevussa was diving, but the Wyvern could accelerate as fast as she could. She spoke a word.

“[Mach Wings]!”

And the Garuda accelerated. The Wyvern screamed and dove, but Bevussa was suddenly going twice as fast with each flap of her wings. She twisted—it was still going after her! Bevussa looked ahead and realized she was heading straight for a group of residential apartments. The Wyvern was trying to box her in!

The Garuda turned. She moved in a tight circle, and hurtled straight at the Wyvern. It wasn’t prepared for that, and its jaws opened reflexively and the long, sinuous head reared back to strike. Bevussa knew that was what it would do. She activated her second Skill.

[Instantaneous Redirection]. One moment Bevussa was flying at the Wyvern—the next, away, perpendicular. It was a move impossible to make without a Skill and the dumfounded Wyvern lashed out at where Bevussa would have been. It floundered, momentum lost, confused, and Bevussa screamed.

“Wings of Pallass, Wyvern-hunter tactics! Neck and wings! Now!”

The three Drakes dropped on the Wyvern out of the skies as Bevussa flew back. This time, the strike was surgical. The three Gold-ranks had lined up their dives as Bevussa distracted the Wyvern. Now, they went for the kill. Bevussa whispered.

“[Sundering Slash].”

She cut the Wyvern across the neck. Issa and Zassil cut the Wyvern’s wings at the same time. Kin spun past as the Wyvern dropped, and one of her precise [Stone Darts] shot through the monster’s eye. The Wyvern dropped, screaming. Bevussa followed it down. It was headed for a building, so she and the Wings rammed it. Just enough for it to—

The Wyvern hit the street with a crunch. Bevussa heard another scream and guessed it had broken its legs. At least. She saw Zassil aiming his spear. Going for a kill at a dive; bleeding a Wyvern along critical spots on its neck was the only real way to kill it for fliers. Or letting it crash and kill itself. It had too much mass to try to get through bone.

“Zassil! Leave it!”

Bevussa shouted at the other Drake, not caring if anyone heard her giving orders to her ‘Captain’. Zassil started.

“But—”

The Wyvern was still moving. In any other situation, Bevussa would have finished it off, but she pointed.

“Leave it! Take them out of the sky! Follow me!”

The Wings flew after her. Bevussa dove along the streets of the 6th floor, shouting at Garuda and Oldblood Drakes. This was a favorite spot with them; the 6th floor had been built up to the ceiling of the 5th. It was an aerial maze, meant for the Garuda populations and a popular hangout. Now, it was filled with panicked civilians. Children.

“Stop flying you fools! You’re making yourself targets!”

Bevussa bellowed as she shot through the air. Her voice made some of the frantic shapes in the air drop. Kin, Issa, and Zassil followed in her wake in an arrow formation, shouting the same instructions.

The older Garuda were wise enough not to fly. And prompted by Bevussa’s voice, more Garuda and Drakes dove, searching for places to land. Bevussa had taught some of the frightened faces she saw. She clenched her beak and dipped one wing, turning sharply.

“On me! We’re dropping Wyverns! Aim only for their wings! Keep moving! If one of them hits you with their breath, you’re dead!”

The frost would kill the Wings in a moment, weighing their wings down, rendering them immobile. Kin paled as she saw where Bevussa was taking them.

Straight into the center of the city. Where the Wyverns were flying at their thickest.

“Bevussa! There are hundreds!”

“Then we bring them down one after another!”

The Gold-rank Captain screamed at her teammate. She flew straight at the nearest Wyvern. Cut along the wing bone. Cut through it! Drop it!

But there were so many. Bevussa looked up. She looked around. She’d fought in the army against a dozen Wyverns. But there were hundreds.

There were so many—

Bevussa felt a shadow pass over her. She looked up. A Wyvern dove. Bevussa tried to dodge, but she’d used her Skill too recently. She went down in free fall, tangled with the Wyvern, stabbing, trying to get free. The other Wings were fighting the second Wyvern that had dived at them.



—-



“No.”

Noass stared as Bevussa’ shape disappeared, falling out of view, fighting the Wyvern. The Wings of Pallass had been there for only a second before they’d been swallowed.

And the Wyverns screamed. More were flying off the walls, deciding to enter the fighting below. More and more. One dropped onto the 4th Floor, hunting for prey. The Wyvern was drooling, in hunting mode. All it smelled and saw was prey.

It looked around, savoring the fear. The Wyvern swung its head back and forth, looking for food. Some of the stone structures had food in them. The Wyvern could smell it. The monster was trying to figure out how to crack open one of the buildings when a door swung open. The Wyvern smelled meat. Lots of it. Sweat too. It opened its mouth to bite before the door could close.

Something hit the Wyvern in the jaws. The Wyvern’s head snapped back. It nearly fell on its back. The monster’s head rang. It looked around, stunned. Its teeth were broken. Something had—it was bleeding.

The Wyvern flopped on its back, getting up, now drooling blood from its broken gums. It tried to howl, but the second discus of lead and steel hit it in the neck. The Wyvern’s neck deformed and it collapsed. It looked up, stunned, uncomprehending. What was hitting it? What was—

A giant Drake walked out of his house. He was huge. The Wyvern was far larger, but this was the biggest prey it had ever seen of its kind. It tried to bite the Drake, feebly. But it’s upper teeth were destroyed. It couldn’t breathe. The Wyvern still tried to lunge.

Grimalkin punched the Wyvern in the head. His fist cracked bone and sent the splinters into the Wyvern’s brain. The monster slumped. Grimalkin cracked his neck and looked around.

“The weights make good impromptu throwing weapons. Apprentices! Find anyone on the street and get them inside! Don’t let a Wyvern eat you! I’m heading up.”

His wide-eyed apprentices stared at him from the opening of Grimalkin’s mansion. Ferkr gaped at the two deformed weights. They were from the weights bar. Grimalkin had hurled the fifty-pound weights like discuses and crippled the Wyvern with it.

“Master—”

“Move.”

Grimalkin didn’t waste words on Ferkr. It had been minutes since the attack. Chaldion’s voice had alerted Grimalkin; the [Sinew Magus] hadn’t heard the screams or explosion in his mansion. Now, he turned. Grimalkin stared up. His eyes narrowed.

“What idiot didn’t activate the [Cage of Pallass] spell? If they’re alive, I am going to kill them.”

Then he ran. Grimalkin of Pallass charged down the street. He ran faster than someone of his size had any right to move. The Drake reached the edge of the 6th Floor and saw.

The Wyverns were still assailing the upper floors. They had the air and fewer of them were reaching the lower floors. Grimalkin saw the flash of armor and magic below.

“The army.”

He looked up and back. The 5th Floor. Grimalkin heard screams. He crouched.

“[Reduce Weight]. [Warlock’s Leap].”

His eyes flashed. Then Grimalkin leapt.

The 5th Floor was being assailed by another Wyvern. It was herding a group of Drakes up, snapping at the ones trying to flee. Grimalkin landed. The Wyvern’s head swiveled. It stared at Grimalkin and then charged at him, ignoring the other prey for this large one. Grimalkin stared at it. He lowered his stance, made one fist. As the Wyvern lunged, he punched.

The Wyvern felt something smash through its teeth. Something immovable. As hard as stone. It recoiled, stunned. Grimalkin pointed a claw.

“[Lightning Bolt].”

A flash. The Wyvern jerked as the lightning struck it. But even a lightning bolt couldn’t kill it. It flopped back weakly. Grimalkin charged in. One clawed hand grabbed the Wyvern’s head. He put a foot on the neck. Then he jerked up.

The Wyvern’s head could move in almost any direction, but it still had bone. It fought weakly as the [Sinew Magus] pulled it up, up, bending it backwards. The Drake’s muscles bulged and he growled. Grimalkin twisted the Wyvern’s head backwards until he heard a snap. Then he dropped the Wyvern.

“Ancestors.”

Someone breathed. Grimalkin turned his head. The Drakes were staring. Grimalkin nodded at them.

“Get to safety. Find the nearest building and get inside. I can’t stay.”

He was already moving. Grimalkin checked the Wyvern’s head to make sure it was dead. The eyes stared blankly at the [Mage] of Pallass. Grimalkin nodded to the Drakes. Then he jumped. He flew through the air, almost weightless, grabbing hold of an elevator’s cable, then leapt again. Onto the 6th Floor. Higher and higher.



—-



“We just saw the Wings of Pallass go down! They were intercepted by the Wyverns—they are still diving! It has been—minutes since the alarm in Pallass was called and the higher floors are getting overrun!”

Noass was shouting as he half-faced the scrying mirror, pointing down at the chaos below. He and Sir Relz had stopped near the stairs to the battlements. The Drake was pointing down into the heart of the city.

“The Watch is fighting to try and reclaim the battlements, but Wyverns are assailing them! I can see fighting on the 2nd floor where the garrisons are located—but there is a bottleneck on all four staircases! And the Wyverns are assailing any large groups! This—this is a disaster! Sir Relz, thoughts?”

The other Drake gulped.

“The army normally deploys outside the city for attack. They’re stationed for sorting, not having to retake the walls. Clearly there’s been an error in their stationing. But normally the battlements have more than enough personnel to repel an attack. But as you can see—”

He turned. A group of armored figures were fighting at one of the staircases. The Watch and [Soldiers] were battling multiple Wyverns, assaulting them as they tried to take the stairs.

“There are too many Wyverns above! And the lower floors are congested as the Wyverns slow reinforcements! We—we could be seeing a disaster. I think there are thousands, thousands dead. I repeat, thousands. The Wyverns are slowing to eat their kills, but whenever they breathe that damned frost attack at a cluster, everyone dies—and we just saw a Gold-rank team fall prey to their diving!”

Noass was nodding, looking around.

“The Wyverns are assaulting groups heading up, preventing anyone from making a foothold on the upper floors. Everyone is retreating. This is a disaster. Where are the higher-level officers? Are they all trapped below?”

The Drake’s voice was despairing. And their commentary wasn’t going to just those watching from outside Pallass. People in the city were picking up the broadcast, watching from inside their homes. Sir Relz turned to Noass.

“Can you see anyone? Noass? Anyone?”

Noass’ voice was bleak.

“I see pockets of fighting everywhere. The Watch is spread out across the city. But Wyverns are a Gold-rank threat. An entire squad can barely fight one, and these are Frost Wyverns. They have a variant of Dragon’s breath, like an Oldblood Drake! Even if our [Soldiers] beat one, two, or three attacking at once? I—I just don’t see—”

The Drake’s voice stopped. Sir Relz looked at him and then tried to angle his scrying mirror.

“What do you see? Noass?”

“I—I see someone moving up! Look! There!”

Noass pointed. Sir Relz’s mirror moved. And then they saw him. A small figure from afar, but growing larger. Leaping. Yes, leaping up the floors. He stopped as a Wyvern dove. The two Drakes peered.

“I don’t see—a Wyvern’s diving at him—”

“Who? An officer?”

“No! It’s—Ancestors!”

The Wyvern hit the huge figure and crashed. The two Drakes gaped as they saw the figure charge it. There was a bloom of fire—the Wyvern’s head was missing. And the figure turned, scanning for opponents. Then he leapt higher.

“Who is that? It’s a Drake—no, it must be him—he must have heard the alarm! Look! It’s Pallass’ Strongest [Mage]! Grimalkin!”

The [Sinew Magus] leapt higher. He was on the 7th Floor now. The two Drakes stared as he landed below.

“Magus Grimalkin!”

Noass bellowed. Grimalkin’s head whipped around. He spotted the two Drakes. They saw him squat, his form perfect, then leap. The two Drakes backed up as a huge shape soared over the railing of the 8th Floor.

Grimalkin landed lightly. He turned his head. His arms and part of his huge neck were covered in blood. But it wasn’t his. The [Sinew Magus] eyed Noass and Sir Relz.

“You two! Get inside! Hide from the Wyvern attack!”

He barked at them. Noass’ mouth worked. Sir Relz took over.

“Magus! Magus, we’re broadcasting live—”

“What? Broadcasting what—”

Grimalkin looked at Sir Relz. He stared into the image and then his brows snapped together.

“You idiots! If you have the strength to use a scrying orb, get people off the streets!”

“But people have to see—”

“Out of my way. I don’t have time for this. I’m retaking the walls.”

Grimalkin had spotted the fighting on the stairs. He sprinted past the two Drakes. Noass turned.

“That—that was Grimalkin of Pallass. Known as the Fist Mage, but also Pallass’ self-proclaimed strongest [Mage]. He’s known for—dead gods! Is he insane?”

The Drake was charging straight at the three Wyverns on the stairs. They’d pushed back the [Soldiers] and [Guards] fighting there. Grimalkin roared as he charged the nearest one. It reared up and Noass gasped.

“He can’t fight three at once! He’s a [Mage], even if he’s known for hand-to-hand fighting. He’s mad. He’s going to die—”

Grimalkin halted as the Wyvern turned on him. He planted his legs and made a fist. He chanted as the Wyvern charged at him.

“[Gauntlet of Force]. [Lion’s Strength]. [Bound Spell: Impact Shockwave]. [Thunder Step].”

The last spell was followed by a sound. Sir Relz’s scrying mirror jerked as Grimalkin exploded forwards. The Wyvern lunged. And Grimalkin struck. He hit the Wyvern’s head as it bit at him. The top of the Wyvern’s head exploded.

The other two triumphant Wyverns froze. They stopped shrieking. Sir Relz jerked. Noass’ jaw dropped. They stared as the fleeing [Soldiers] and [Guards] turned back. Grimalkin turned. He looked at the other two Wyverns.

They dove. Grimalkin blurred sideways and the first missed with its claws. The second he jumped at. He struck it in midair.

“Release.”

[Impact Shockwave]. The spell activated. The Wyvern crashed out of the air as the spell hammered it to the ground. It writhed as a tremor went through its body, tearing muscle and sinew. Grimalkin held out a claw.

“[Siege Fireball].”

A huge flaming ball of fire appeared. The [Magus] threw it and the fireball engulfed the Wyvern in an explosion. The Drake turned as the scorched, burnt form of the second Wyvern slumped, burning.

The third turned. It stared at Grimalkin, and met his eyes. Then the Wyvern tried to flee. It reared back, flapping its wings. Too late.

“[Thunder Step].”

Grimalkin appeared in front of the Wyvern. It was exposed as it reared up, flapping. The head reared back in shock, trying to breathe frost, or bite. Too slow. Grimalkin drew back a fist.

“Pallass’ Strongest!”

He punched through the Wyvern’s chest. The huge beast froze in the middle of rearing back. It moved, a convulsion—Grimalkin tore his claw loose. It was clutching the remains of a heart. He dropped it and the Wyvern collapsed.

Noass and Sir Relz stared. Grimalkin shook the blood off his claws. Then he turned.

“Soldiers! Reform and regroup! Take the 9th! Pallass will not fall!”

His bellow was audible even from afar. The [Soldiers] stared as Grimalkin leapt up the stairs. They charged after him. So did Sir Relz and Noass. They saw Grimalkin leaping up to the 9th floor. Then—

Higher. Noass pointed.

“He’s going up! He’s going up to the walls alone!”

Grimalkin was leaping up on a roof on the 9th floor. He crouched and jumped a final time. The Drake landed on Pallass’ battlements. Sir Relz craned back, running to see him.

The weyr of Frost Wyverns was confused. They were hearing death-shrieks from their comrades. A few, but more and more. More were flapping towards the edge, walking on their two clawed legs to search for prey. It was so easy from above. Easier than in the mountains, even.

Over a third of the weyr still held the walls; the rest were in the city. The Wyverns on the battlements were complacent. Nothing but them was alive at this point. None of them were prepared for the single Drake who landed on the battlements.

Grimalkin. He landed lightly, and looked alone. Hundreds of Wyverns stared, offended and surprised. Prey had come to them? And he smelled like blood. Wyvern blood. They recoiled, and then screamed.

But he did not smell afraid. The [Sinew Magus] stared about, assessing the situation, ignoring the Wyverns closest to him.

He stood on the walls alone. Hundreds of Wyverns flew around him, more diving into the heart of the Walled City. The [Sinew Magus] looked around. All he saw were frozen bodies and blood. Without the protections of Pallass’ magic, the defenders of the wall had been caught off-guard. Overconfident, the Day Strategist hadn’t reinforced them. The Drake closed his eyes for a second, seeing a frozen Gnoll he recognized.

Watch Captain Rekhassha. Something had eaten part of the statue of ice she’d become. Grimalkin opened his eyes. A Wyvern was staring at him. A wyrm, a youngling of its species. It darted its head at Grimalkin, like a snake striking.

He caught it. Grimalkin dodged the head and his right arm encircled the young Wyvern’s neck. It tried to jerk back.

“[Magic Anchor].”

Grimalkin’s feet glowed. The Drake didn’t even budge as the Wyvern tried to pull back. The [Sinew Magus] regarded its flapping wings, the rest of its body. He looked around.

“You pestilential beasts don’t deserve to stand here.”

His muscles bulged. The Wyvern screamed—and began choking. The other Wyverns reared back. Impossible! But Grimalkin kept squeezing. He just squeezed and squeezed the Wyvern’s neck. And then—the Wyvern’s eyes bulged. It jerked, spasmed.

Stopped moving. Grimalkin dropped the Wyvern’s head. He’d crushed its neck, windpipe. The Wyverns stared. And then they shrieked.

A mother dove at Grimalkin. He dodged it, struck a blow that shattered the huge leg. It screamed and Grimalkin pointed. A bolt of lightning hit the Wyvern in the head, sending it reeling backwards. Another landed—Grimalkin held out a claw.

“[Stone Sphere]!”

A boulder appeared in his hand, as large as his chest. Grimalkin heaved it. It went straight through the Wyvern’s opened wings. The second boulder struck the Wyvern in the face and shattered its skull.

The weyr stared. Grimalkin stood there. He raised his arms. Below, Sir Relz and Noass stared. The people of Pallass looked at the image of Grimalkin standing on the walls. The Drake’s muscles rippled as he flexed. He roared up at the Wyverns.

“I am Grimalkin of Pallass! Come, you wretched beasts! I will bring all of you down if I must!”

Alone. They dove at him, screaming. He raised his arm and a gauntlet of stone blocked one strike from a pair of claws. The magus turned, grabbed the Wyvern’s claws and threw it. The Wyvern crashed across the stone. Grimalkin ducked another.

“Weak. Weak!”

One claw grabbed the Wyvern’s tail as it flew past him, dragging it back as it tried to fly forwards. Alarmed, the Wyvern tried to fly. It outweighed the huge Drake several times! It was impossible. The Drake couldn’t—

Grimalkin roared as he heaved. His feet were anchored to the ground by his spell. And the Wyvern lost. Grimalkin threw it back, across the wall. He charged it. And his fist crushed its vulnerable neck. Grimalkin raised one fist and the Wyverns backed up.

“Grimalkin of Pallass! He’s fighting them alone!”

Noass was screaming. He and Sir Relz were jumping up and down, pointing like hatchlings. And the roar echoed them. It came from below, from Drakes, Gnolls, Dullahans, and Garuda. They saw him standing on the walls and screamed his name.

“Grimalkin!”

The [Sinew Magus] heard them. He turned and raised a fist. And Pallass roared. The Wyverns wavered at the unexpected sound. Grimalkin looked around the walls. Then he twisted.

A strike to the back. It was so fast that even Grimalkin couldn’t catch it. Something blew him across the battlements. The Drake twisted, catching himself as he landed. He stared at his torn scales, felt his back muscle ripped open. He looked up.

The Wyvern Lord landed, howling its fury. Grimalkin eyed it. It was larger than the lesser Wyverns by a third. At least. And its scales glimmered. There was something intelligent in its gaze as it hissed at Grimalkin. It kept its wings folded, a smaller target. And the Wyvern’s head swayed back and forth as it crouched.

Grimalkin put one hand on his belt. A little vial appeared in his claws and he tossed it down. The Wyvern Lord’s eyes narrowed as Grimalkin’s injuries healed. The [Sinew Magus] nodded.

“You must be the leader. Good.”

The two stared each other down. Appraising each other. Grimalkin looked around, keeping attention focused on the Wyvern Lord. The rest of the weyr was circling, but keeping their distance. He nodded.

“[Bound Spell: Siege Fireball].”

Mana condensed around one claw. The Wyvern Lord’s eyes narrowed. It struck charging, its head snapping. Grimalkin dodged. Or tried to. The biting jaws missed his torso, but the Wyvern’s head struck him. The [Sinew Magus] flew backwards.

“Strong.”

Grimalkin gritted his teeth. He stared at his chest, feeling the bruise on his scales. He looked at the Wyvern Lord—

[Flash Step]. The spell saved Grimalkin’s life. The Wyvern Lord’s tail cracked the air where Grimalkin’s head had been. It had swung around, using its tail to strike a second blow. The [Sinew Magus] saw the Wyvern Lord turning. He pointed a finger.

“[Siege Fireball]!”

The huge orb of fire shot from his claw, larger than Grimalkin himself. The fiery spell hit the Wyvern Lord as it tried to draw back. Grimalkin felt a flash, an explosion of heat. He waited, his guard up. The smoke cleared, and the Drake heard a shriek.

The Wyvern Lord was standing in the radius of scorched stone. Unharmed. It howled at Grimalkin. He eyed its scales.

“Spell resistance.”

The two stared at each other. Grimalkin gritted his teeth. Then he charged. The Wyvern Lord roared as it flew at him. They collided like thunder. And Grimalkin—cursed. Just once.



—-



“Desk Sergeant! There are too many! We have to fall back!”

“Hold your ground! Hold the street or I’ll toss you off the floor myself!”

Kel shouted as a cluster of [Guards] on the 8th floor fought to hold. The City Watch blocked off the streets around their Watch House. Civilians were fleeing past them, through the gaps on either side of the street. And the Watch held the middle.

Barely. A Wyvern flew overhead. The [Guards] ducked. A group of the Watch with bows loosed and the Wyvern howled as arrows lodged in its wings. It breathed—

“Shields!”

The Watch raised their shields along with Kel. The frost froze his scales and Kel shouted in agony. But the shields blocked the worst of the frost breath. The tower shields cracked as the metal couldn’t handle the extreme change in temperature. Kel turned his head as the Wyvern landed.

“Archers! Take out the eyes! Shields, forwards! Push it back!”

The [Guards] advanced. Long pikes braced as the [Guards] with shields tried to hold the Wyvern back as it looked for something to bite. Kel looked past the Wyvern and swore.

A group of Gnolls were running. They stopped as the Wyvern turned. The Desk Sergeant pointed.

“Charge! Protect the civilians!”

The squad of [Guards] rammed forwards. The Wyvern recoiled and the Gnoll family turned to run. Kel shouted.

“[Protector’s Order]! Run! Get past us!”

The Gnoll family halted mid-step. They turned back. The [Guards] formed an opening, striking at the Wyvern’s hide. Their steel weapons barely cut the Wyvern’s hide! It hissed, slammed its head into a rank of shields—then it turned and slammed its tail like a whip.

The first rank of [Guards] flung backwards against the second rank. Kel felt an impact, pushed the Dullahan falling onto him back up. He looked around. The Gnoll family was running into the safe zone. Good, good.

He looked up and saw the Wyvern opening its jaws. An arrow bounced off its head, but missed the eye. The disorganized [Guards] tried to raise their shields, but their formation was filled with gaps. The Wyvern breathed.

Frost engulfed the squad. In his chainmail, Kel felt his scales freeze. He screamed. But the deathly cold hadn’t killed him. Nearly—but it was the Dullahan in the first rank who had taken the frost. The [Guardswoman]’s head dropped from her body as she toppled. Frost covered her armor.

“Damn you. Form ranks! Archers, shoot its eyes out! Shields forwards!”

Kel fumbled for the spear he was carrying. The [Guards] reformed. The Wyvern retreated as more arrows flew. It had killed half of the first rank and some in the second. But Pallass’ Watch refused to die. This time the Wyvern charged, trying to scatter them.

It pierced its chest on their pikes. The long pikes designed for stopping a horse’s charge groaned, but six of them struck the Wyvern’s chest. Two snapped, but the rest buried themselves deep. The Wyvern uttered a scream. It tried to back up, but Drakes and Gnolls and Dullahans cut at it. A Garuda went for the eyes, flying.

It tore the Garuda apart. Another [Guard] died as the Wyvern broke loose of the pikes. It twisted, and the long, whip-like tail snapped around. It struck a [Guard] and the impact cracked the Drake’s chest, breaking armor and bone.

Dead and dead. Kel’s healing potion did nothing to the staring face. So he turned on the Wyvern. The Watch cut the creature’s legs, shot its wings so full of arrows that when it tried to fly, it couldn’t.

Red blood froze on the cobblestones. But it began to melt the frost as the Wyvern fell. The Watch stood, panting, counting their losses as the Wyvern slumped over. They’d done it. Kel, wide eyed, leaned on the rim of his shield.

“We got it?”

He’d never fought a Wyvern. But the Watch had been trained to fight monsters. He looked around.

“Desk Sergeant? Orders?”

Kel looked around. The city was in panic. He was hearing multiple horns calling the alarm. Order dictated he take every [Guard] he could spare and reinforce the area.

But the Watch on the 8th floor was holding this ground. They’d funneled every civilian they could find into the Watch House, the blocks they were holding. And the squad was down a third of their number. Kel shook his head.

“We—we hold this spot. Grab those shields! Pull back down the street. We need to reinforce.”

A shriek. First faint, then growing louder. A wail of fury. Kel turned his head. He saw a second Wyvern land next to the corpse of the first. It looked at its dead companion and then howled at the squad. Kel felt his heart drop.

“Ancestors. Form up. Form—”

He was turning, raising his shield. But the Drake tasted despair on his tongue. Foul. He put himself in the front row, shoulder-to-shoulder with Patrol Leader Medain. Kel looked up as the Frost Wyvern opened its maw, cold vapors pouring out of its throat.

“Archers.”

It was a plea. The [Guards] aimed. And they loosed. Nine arrows flew. Half missed the Wyvern’s moving head. They were [Guards], not expert [Archers].

Four arrows struck the Wyvern’s head. Two along the neck. One glanced off a tooth. The last—missed the eye. Kel closed his eyes. Then he opened them.

“Brace—”

The Wyvern pointed its head at Kel. It inhaled—and Kel heard a voice.

“Guardsman, left! [Rapid Retreat]!”

Kel jerked at the voice of command. He felt his legs move. The Watch surged left, moving fast—faster than Kel could have imagined. The Wyvern exhaled.

Frost stung Kel’s back. Froze his scales against his armor. He cried out, but the Wyvern had missed. It stared at the empty street, then the squad that had dodged as one. The Wyvern recoiled. Kel looked around.

“Fall back! Archers, covering fire! Aim for the wings! Keep it from flying!”

The Watch reacted instinctively. They fell back, showering the Wyvern with arrows. It hissed as the arrows struck its wings. Kel looked around. Where—?

There. A Drake with light blue scales was shouting from a rooftop. He pointed.

“Now! Relc!”

“On it!”

A huge Drake charged past Kel. He had a long spear in one hand. Kel shouted. The Drake was alone! But he was so quick! A blur shot towards the Wyvern. Relc charged into the monster’s huge chest.

“[Triple Thrust]!”

His spear struck three times in an instant. The Wyvern recoiled, staring down at the three holes punched in its hide. It tried to back up, fanning its wings.

“[Attack Formation]! Hit the wings!”

The [Strategist] shouted. Kel saw the [Archers] aiming, placing their shots. The Wyvern’s wings filled with holes. It tried to fly—Relc braced, and stabbed with all of his might. His spear went deep into the Wyvern’s side. It shrieked and tried to get away. The [Guardsman] pushed in. The spear slowly pierced the Wyvern and it writhed, trying to get away.

“Forwards! Watch the legs! Use the pikes and strike it from afar!”

The squad surged forwards again. They joined the unknown Drake and stabbed mercilessly. The Wyvern tried to fly one last time, but like the first it died.

Relc’s spear was embedded halfway through its guts. The Drake pulled the spear out, grunting with effort. He looked around.

“Hey.”

“Who are you? Guardsman?”

Kel recognized the uniform, but not the Drake’s colors. Then a light went in his head. He stared at Liscor’s insignia. Then the stripes on one armband.

“Senior Guardsman?”

Relc grinned.

“That’s me. Hey Olesm! Get down here! The Wyverns will pick you off!”

“I’m surveying the situation! Relc—there’s trouble two streets that way! Another Wyvern!”

The Drake cursed.

“Damn. Alright! Here I go!”

He turned. Kel didn’t even see the Drake start running. Relc was blurring down the street as the Drake on the rooftop took another look around and then ran.

“Squad—injured?”

“They got Shais.”

“No. I’m alive.”

Shais panted. Kel looked around as the squad sounded off. Then he heard a voice.

“Who’s in charge here?”

Kel looked around. The Drake called Olesm was standing in the street. He looked and sounded like an officer, but again, not one Kel had ever met. The Desk Sergeant instinctively saluted.

“Desk Sergeant Kel! 8th Floor’s Watch House! Who—who are you?”

“Olesm. Strategist for Liscor.”

“Liscor?”

The [Guards] stared. But yes—of course! Kel’s eyes widened.

“The door?”

Olesm nodded. He was staring at the sky, adjusting a glowing ring on one clawed finger.

“Liscor’s sending all of its Gold-rank adventurers. I came through as well as Relc.”

“He’s going to fight a Wyvern? We have to reinforce—”

Patrol Leader Medain turned. Olesm barked.

“Belay that, Guardsman! Relc is a [Spearmaster]! He’ll reinforce any squad that needs help! You’re all with me! We’re going to expand the zone of control and find as many civilians as possible. Are they in the Watch House?”

“As many as we can find.”

Kel answered. His mind was in a whirl, but it was a relief to hear the steady note in Olesm’s voice. But he was younger than Kel! Yet no one was questioning him. Medain turned, a faint light of recognition in his eyes.

“Wait. Relc. Was that the Gecko of Liscor…? I heard they had a monster in their Watch—”

Olesm ignored them. He was looking around.

“Desk Sergeant, how many [Guards] do you have? Where are they located? I need a map of the area. And I’m assuming command of your sector as Liscor’s [Strategist]. Unless you object?”

“Nossir!”

Kel saluted. He felt a surge of relief. And then—almost a sense of incredulity. Liscor was coming to help Pallass? He looked at Olesm.

“Is it just you, Strategist?”

The younger Drake met Kel’s gaze. He smiled for half a second and shook his head.

“The door can’t move many people through. But don’t worry, Sergeant. We’re not the only ones.”

He pointed. And Kel saw it at last. It had taken an age. Or maybe minutes. In the scale of the attack, it felt like forever. But he saw the Drakes wearing plate armor. The Flamewardens charge down the street, heading for the stairs. Keldrass wore the Heartflame Breastplate, and it burned with fire as he roared.

“For Pallass! Take the walls!”



—-



Wyverns flew into the city, spiraling down, landing. A dozen had occupied the 4th Floor. A dozen. Watch Captain Qissa was trying to just hold them in place. Her [Mages] were blasting the Wyverns, but they had resistance to spells and they were just huge. Even a [Fireball] couldn’t do more than hurt one.

“Where’s 1st Army? Where’s General Duln?”

She bellowed at one of her Senior Guards. The Drake shouted back.

“I don’t know! They’re all fighting below! They’re making their way up, but—”

“Duck!”

Everyone threw themselves down as all twelve Wyverns breathed at once. The combined breath attack hit a magical barrier—and shattered the spell. Qissa felt the frost eating at her scales. She heard [Guards] screaming. The Senior Guardsman shouted at the Watch Captain.

“The Frost Resistance potions aren’t working! It’s too cold!”

“Keep them pinned! Just keep them pinned—until reinforcements get here! Tell the 1st I need reinforcements now! They need to take the stairs even if the Wyverns hit them! The higher floors are being overrun!”

Qissa was shouting. She saw one of the Wyverns lunging, trying to break the walls of [Guards] behind their steel barriers. They were meant to close a street down, not fight Wyverns! It smashed into the steel and Qissa saw the metal tear. She swore and grabbed the enchanted spear she carried.

“I’m going in!”

“Watch Captain! No—”

Hands grabbed for her. Qissa fought them. Someone had to hold the Wyverns! She saw the [Guards] bunching up as six Wyverns charged them. They were going to be overrun! And then—

Something flew past Qissa’s head. She turned as she saw something. Not a spell. It was too slow. Slower than an arrow. It was a flying…glass…jar. And it shone with red. Like a—

“Down!”

The flask exploded as it hit the first Wyvern in the head. Qissa saw everyone duck. But the Wyverns just blinked as the red, oily liquid covered them. Two of the Wyverns stared at the red liquid on their friends. Then they turned back to the [Guards].

And one of the red-covered Wyverns bit the first in the neck. The other Wyverns recoiled. But then the other three Wyverns attacked their fellows. They screamed, foaming at the mouth.

“Ancestors, what—”

The Wyverns were fighting amongst themselves! Three had gone berserk, the ones covered in the red oil. It had absorbed into their scales somehow, and they were frothing, biting their friends. Qissa stared. How, by the walls…?

Then she heard a voice.

“See, this is why I stay in my cell. I leave for one day, and this is what happens.”

Qissa knew that voice. She turned her head and there he was. A Drake with dusky yellow scales. He was slim, tall. And oh yes, naked.

Saliss stood in the war torn street, juggling a trio of glowing potions. Or—alchemical mixtures. He nodded at Qissa.

“Watch Captain. I open my door for a breath of air and I saw all these Wyverns. What’s going on?”

“We—we’re under attack.”

Qissa replied slowly. Saliss paused. He looked at the fighting Wyverns. The nine were killing their enraged companions.

“You don’t say? How many?”

“I don’t know. The upper floors are overrun. They’ve taken the walls. The 1st Army is trapped below—I heard Magus Grimalkin was on the walls. Alone.”

The Watch Captain searched for more information, but the [Alchemist] just nodded.

“Got it. Well, I guess it’s my turn to earn my keep. Pull the Watch back.”

Qissa looked at him. Saliss. The Drake she’d arrested countless times, fined, reprimanded. Pallass’ number one public nuisance. And Named Adventurer. She turned.

“Fall back! Named Adventurer is advancing!”

The Watch scrambled back. Saliss waited until they were clear. Then he aimed for the Wyverns. They were biting the corpses of their enraged comrades, trying to kill them even after they were dead. They looked up as the three glass jars flew at them.

The first detonated in midair, spraying the Wyverns with a brown-black liquid that glistened. They raised their wings, but the liquid did nothing. The second liquid was clear. It splattered over all of them, again exploding just above the cluster of nine Wyverns. They hissed—the smell was terrible. And the third? The flask covered the lot with a red powder.

And nothing else happened. Saliss eyed the Wyverns as they shrieked their displeasure. Qissa stared at them, but they weren’t possessed by madness. Just—covered by all three substances. She looked at Saliss.

“Alchemist—”

Saliss looked at her.

“I have to know what their limits are. These are variants. They have some kind of magical resistance. Test one. [Flash Sparks].”

He clicked his claws. Qissa saw a flicker of light near one of the Wyvern’s feet as the monster inhaled, aiming at Saliss. And the Wyverns ignited.

All three liquids exploded. The red powder actually exploded. Qissa threw her claws up, shielding her face.

“Ancestors!”

The fire’s heat hit her from afar. And it kept burning, unlike a [Fireball]. The mixture consumed the Wyverns, and they screamed, trying to roll, put the fire out. But it stuck to them. Saliss watched. The Wyverns’ shrieks lasted only ten seconds. Then they slumped. They were still burning, the alchemical substances sticking to them.

“Test complete. Durability’s up from regular Wyverns. But they’re not chilled. Fire does work.”

He nodded. The [Alchemist] turned. The Watch was staring. Civilians looked at Saliss out of their windows. The [Alchemist] paused. Then he posed.

“Hello, Pallass! Did you miss me? Sorry I missed the alarm call—I work in a soundproof laboratory! And I hate Chaldion.”

“You—you—”

Qissa stared at Saliss. The Drake waved at the buildings. He winked at her and pitched his voice so everyone could hear.

“I guess I’ll help out. I’ll bill the city later. Oh, and don’t eat those Wyverns. Mm. I wonder if Lasica can do a Wyvern steak. I’ll find out later. See you, Watch Captain.”

He turned. And he spread his arms wide, revealing his nudity. Pallass’ citizens stared. Some shouted at him, almost as if they were in a normal day. The Drake was acting like it. And his absurdity made them forget their fear. Saliss grinned around. Then he looked up. Qissa looked at him.

“Saliss.”

“Can’t stay, Watch Captain. Take this for the frostbite. Share it.”

Saliss tossed a vial at her. The Drake caught the warm vial and saw Saliss pulling out two vials. He downed each. And then he exhaled.

“Whew. That’s hot. And this—”

The second potion was a Potion of Speed. Qissa recognized it. Saliss’ form blurred. He turned. And she thought she saw him look back for one second before he ran. Ran towards the stairs, already pulling more potions out of his bag of holding.

The [Alchemist] shot towards the stairs. [Soldiers] were trying to fight the Wyverns attacking from above. Others had landed on the northern grand staircase and were snapping at the 1st Army trying to advance. Saliss ran past the Wyverns. Qissa barely saw his arms move. Two potions flew—and burst. One Wyvern swallowed a potion and immediately began writhing in agony, screaming. The second was hit in the head by the liquid that solidified, covering its eyes, its nostrils. Saliss ran past them, not even slowing. He threw a third flask up.

Lightning exploded in midair, downing a Wyvern. It crashed onto the steps. Saliss tossed a potion at its head and there was a bloom of light. Qissa’s jaw dropped. She’d heard rumors of how Saliss fought. But this—she watched the [Alchemist] climbing. Faster and faster, and the Named Adventurer was still naked. But he ran faster, towards the walls. And Qissa watched him. She’d heard what he’d whispered before he left.

She thought he’d said, ‘Sorry I’m late.’



—-



“Grimalkin of Pallass is fighting on the walls alone, ladies and gentledrakes! We saw him engage what looked to be the leader of the Wyverns, but we are not in position to see more! We can only assume Grimalkin is fighting to take down the leader of the weyr! Right now, Sir Relz and I are hearing that the Wyverns are being pushed back by the 1st Army! They’ve reached the 4th floor, but they are far, far from our position!”

Noass was bellowing at Sir Relz and the magical scrying orb. He pointed across the 9th Floor.

“The forges are under attack! The [Blacksmiths] must have been caught completely off-guard. We’re trying to see—I see Master Maughin over there! Look!”

He pointed Maughin’s huge figure was visible against his forge. He had a hammer in hand and was throwing it at a Wyvern that had landed. The other [Smiths] were throwing tools too, crouched behind their forges. The Wyverns weren’t interested in the iron and smoke, but some had still assailed the smithy. One reared back, and a hammer struck it in the face. The Wyvern recoiled, and hissed. It lunged at Maughin—

“Damned Wyverns!”

Pelt’s hammer cracked the Wyvern across the skull. The Wyvern crashed down for a second. Maughin retreated and Pelt raised his hand. His hammer flew back into his hand. He threw it again, and then another hammer his apprentice handed him. He was standing in his forge, protecting his Grasgil bardiche.

“Get everything in the bag of holding! And get to cover!”

The Dwarf roared at his apprentice and the other [Smiths]. They were running for shelter from their exposed forges. Pelt swore as the Wyvern he’d clocked ran at him. He looked around. Then he picked up part of his broken anvil and with an oath, hurled it at the Wyvern.

The huge piece of metal sent the monster reeling backwards. But it kept coming. Pelt ran backwards as the Wyvern snapped at him, trying to bite him. Maughin tackled it from the side. The [Armorer] was huge, nearly the size of a War Walker! But the Wyvern was larger still. It rammed him against the wall of his smithy.

“That’s Maughin and Pelt! Our two best [Smiths]!”

Noass cried out in dismay. Maughin groaned, trying to shove the Wyvern off him. Pelt swore and hammered at the Wyvern’s leg, but it was too large for him to bring down alone. One of his strikes split the scales on the Wyvern and the monster shrieked. It turned its head, aiming at him.

“Pelt!”

Maughin roared. He tried to shove the Wyvern off him as Pelt backed up. The Wyvern opened its maw. And a shadow passed by Pelt. The Dwarf turned. Seborn appeared out of Pelt’s shadow. The Drowned Man grabbed Pelt and vanished.

“What—?”

Maughin stared. Then he saw a shadow. A giant man, as tall as he was, raised a staff.

“[Earthen Spire].”

Maughin felt an impact. The Wyvern slammed into the forge’s ceiling, breaking through it as a spire of stone shot up, impaling it from below. It didn’t pierce the beast’s hide, but it threw the Wyvern off Maughin. He felt someone pull him back as the Wyvern landed on its back, stunned. Maughin stared. He recognized the half-Giant.

“…Moore?”

“We got here as fast as we could.”

The half-Giant nodded at Seborn. The Drowned Man leapt forwards, slashing at the Wyvern as it tried to rise. His enchanted daggers went through the beast’s wings. The [Rogue] slashed a series of gashes through the Wyvern’s left wing. Then he leapt backwards as the Wyvern slashed at him.

“Ulinde! Now!”

The Drowned Man turned. Maughin saw a female Drake—no, a Selphid, run past him. The [Spellslinger] aimed both wands at the Wyvern.

“[Sticky Webs]!”

The white strands engulfed the Wyvern as it tried to rise. It was stuck, and thrashed, tearing loose of the magical bindings. But that was enough. Maughin’s head turned. And then he saw her.

A huge Raskghar—no, someone wearing a Raskghar’s form surged past Ulinde and Seborn. She had a flail in her hands. Now, she whirled it. Bringing the steel mace down on the Wyvern’s head. Again and again. The two-handed flail danced in Jelaqua Ivirith’s paws. The [Iron Tempest] struck the Wyvern’s head as it tried to rise, bombarding the same spot with all her might.

From the other side, Seborn was slashing at the base of the Wyvern’s neck. Moore and Ulinde stood back, staff and wands raised. But the Wyvern never got free of the bindings. Jelaqua delivered the last blow and the Wyvern’s skull deformed. She stepped back.

“That’s—who is that? What in the name of the Walled Cities is that…that’s not a Gnoll!”

Noass was staring at Jelaqua. Sir Relz pointed.

“I recognize the half-Giant and Drowned Man. This is the Halfseekers. That must be their team captain, Jelaqua Ivirith. A Selphid, wearing a…some unknown body. Didn’t we hear about some strange new monster in Liscor’s dungeon, Noass?”

“It might be, Sir Relz! And it looks like two Selphids—they’ve taken down a Wyvern!”

Jelaqua strode over to Maughin. The [Armorer], shaken, looked at Jelaqua. She smiled at him.

“Jelaqua.”

“Hey handsome. I heard the alarm. Sorry we were late. There are Wyverns all over! I can’t stay, but we’ll get everyone to safety. Come on.”

She grabbed him. Maughin stared at Jelaqua, his lover. He reached out.

“You came at the right time.”

The Selphid smiled at him behind a Raskghar’s face. She blew him a kiss. Maughin realized her combat body was male, much to his discomfort.

“I couldn’t let you die, could I? Sorry about the body, but I don’t want to wreck the good ones.”

The Halfseekers formed up behind Jelaqua. Seborn snapped at Jelaqua’s back.

“We fought our way three floors up here for your date, Jelaqua. Now’s not the time to relax!”

Moore shook his head, scanning the 9th Floor.

“Jelaqua, we’re needed.”

“I know. Maughin, get to cover.”

“One moment!”

The [Armorer] ran for his forge. Jelaqua cursed.

“Maughin, I really love you, but now’s not the time to—”

“Here! I finished it this morning!”

The smith hunted around his anvil. Then he tossed something at Jelaqua. She stared at the flail, twice as large as her old one. She whistled.

“Oh wow. Just what I need!”

Maughin nodded. He watched as Jelaqua tossed her old flail to one side. She spun the huge ball of iron, larger than her head with ease. Her huge body could easily swing the flail, and the force behind it—he nodded.

“Made for the Raskghar form. Go. We’ll get to safety.”

“Hah. So that’s the Selphid? Peh. She smells like a dog. Get out of here. Emessa! Grab my bag of holding! We’re not sticking around to get eaten by Wyverns!”

Pelt jogged past Maughin on his shorter legs. His apprentice ran after him. Jelaqua smiled at Maughin. Then she looked up.

“Get clear, Maughin. Halfseekers, on me! We’re clearing the 9th and the staircase! Ulinde, stay behind—no, stay in front of Moore! Your body’s expendable. Let’s go!”

The Halfseekers charged across the 9th floor. Noass was pointing.

“It looks like more Gold-rank teams are entering the fray! They’ve downed a Wyvern—of course, the Halfseekers are a veteran team! Sir Relz! Sir Relz?”

“Noass, I’m seeing more explosions from below. Someone’s—it looks like someone’s breaking through the lower floors! Look! The staircase!”

He pointed. Someone was racing up the steps. And Wyverns were falling, some literally exploding in midair, others crashing down, wings entangled, or covered in a burning mixture. Sir Relz gasped.

“It’s Saliss of Lights! Pallass’ Named Adventurer!”

Here he came. Jelaqua’s eyes widened as the Halfseekers faced down another Wyvern. She brought the flail’s head down crushing the Wyvern’s clawed foot. A glass jar sailed past her face and into the Wyvern’s head. The Wyvern screamed as acid burned its face. Something raced past Jelaqua.

Saliss. Noass was shouting as the [Alchemist] charged up the walls.

“That is Saliss Oliwing, Pallass’ resident Named Adventurer! Saliss of Lights! He’s cleared a path up the stairs all by himself! And he’s going onto the walls!”

The Named Adventurer was climbing higher. Wyverns swooped down on him, screaming. But the [Alchemist] was a blur. He stopped and threw potions. Jelaqua saw one, eight, sixteen—

They detonated in midair. Burning webs, flashes of lightning, alchemical explosions ate up the Wyverns diving at Saliss. Ulinde gaped.

“How did he—”

“That is Saliss of Lights, everyone! The Named Adventurer rumored to have the highest attacking power in the world! He’s a pure [Alchemist]—”

Noass stared, lost for words for a second. Saliss was spinning, throwing objects he plucked from his bag of holding. A Wyvern landed across from him. A potion hit it, covering it with acid. A second detonated, lightning blasting the Wyvern. A third, a fourth—the Wyvern disappeared.

The Named Adventurer stood on the stairs. He turned. And posed. His naked body faced Pallass. And they shouted. He had many names. ‘That naked bastard’, ‘Pallass’ number one nuisance’, ‘that insane [Alchemist]’. But he was also theirs.

“Saliss of Lights!”

He climbed higher. Jelaqua looked up towards the walls. The Named Adventurer had gone alone. She stared at her team.

“We’ll take the 9th. On me!”

Her team ran. And Saliss climbed higher. Into a sea of Wyverns. A naked [Alchemist]. But that was what it meant to be a Named Adventurer. Jelaqua shook her head.

“Not us. Not yet.”

Then she turned and ran towards the next Wyvern she spotted.



—-



Grimalkin of Pallass knelt on the walls of Pallass. He stared at the ground for a second. Then he stood up. He clutched at his arm. It wasn’t moving. And he could barely feel the ice encrusting it.

“You’re fairly strong.”

That was all he said. The Wyvern Lord stared down at him. It opened its mouth again. Grimalkin dodged left.

“[Greater Frostward]—”

He recast the spell, but the frozen breath still hit him. And it froze his legs, his entire right side. Grimalkin stumbled.

Cold. Absolute, piercing cold. It went through his spell—no, the spell was working. But it was just too cold. Grimalkin could see frost forming hundreds of feet from the radius of the Wyvern Lord’s blast. And at the epicenter—he stumbled forwards. Numb. Completely. His right arm barely moved.

“[Flashfire].”

Fire caught. Grimalkin lit up his entire body. Intentionally. The flames burned, warming him. Slightly. But the cold—

Grimalkin saw a movement. He raised his guard. The impact from the Wyvern Lord’s tail tossed him through the air like a toy. He hit the ground hard.

“Greater Wyvern.”

The [Sinew Magus] spat some blood from his mouth as the Wyvern Lord flew after him. He raised himself up. No good. His muscle was as good as dead on his right side. The frostbite had killed it. So he gritted his teeth and spoke a word.

“[Muscular Restructuring]!”

His muscles shifted. Grimalkin felt the dead muscle moving. His entire body rippled as the Wyvern Lord landed. The huge Wyvern stared at Grimalkin. His right arm was gone. Should have been gone. But then the Magus was flexing his arm and moving his legs. Grimalkin grimaced. He looked…a bit thinner? As if he’d shed a bit of mass. He glared up at the Wyvern.

“Looks like I can’t block that breath. I wonder if this is what it’s like to fight a Dragon. It makes me wish I’d invested in better shield spells. Dodging—”

He [Flash Stepped] sideways just in time. The Wyvern Lord had exhaled again. But instead of a stream of frost, it had hurled an orb of frost. It exploded on the walls and Grimalkin felt the chill piercing him even as he dashed further away.

“Continuous ability to use breath attacks, changing the nature of the attack—spell resistance—”

The [Sinew Magus] disappeared as the Wyvern Lord dove. The thundering impact would have killed the Drake if it had hit him. Grimalkin continued, appearing backwards. He threw two [Fireballs]. They exploded on the Wyvern Lord’s scales. But all it did was disorient the Wyvern for a few seconds.

“—And incredible physical strength and agility. Far stronger than a normal Wyvern.”

He waited. The Wyvern Lord turned towards him. It shot towards the stationary Drake. Grimalkin didn’t move. The Wyvern Lord passed through the illusion and halted, confused.

Grimalkin stepped out of his [Invisibility] spell and lined up a punch. [Lion’s Strength], [Gauntlet of Force], [Tremor Wave]—

His punch rocked the Wyvern Lord back as he struck its chest. The Wyvern lurched with the blow, its entire frame moving up with the impact. Grimalkin was already ducking away as the Wyvern Lord whirled. It winced—

And that was all. Grimalkin stared at the place where he’d hit it. He’d have punched through a normal Wyvern’s hide with that hit. But it was just a heavy punch to the Wyvern. He saw it open its jaws.

“[Siege Fire—]”

The explosion as ice met fire hurled Grimalkin back. But the frost engulfed the heat. Freezing him again. Grimalkin blocked his face. So long as his brain wasn’t frozen—he narrowed his gaze, feeling his eyes freezing. He had to stay up. Had to—

The [Sinew Magus] stopped moving. He stood in place, a layer of ice covering his entire body. His eyes stared ahead. The Wyvern Lord howled triumphantly. But it still stared at Grimalkin warily. It looked up, shrieking a command.

Another Wyvern landed. It stared at Grimalkin, just as warily. It shrieked. The Drake didn’t move. It was surely dead, waiting to be eaten. The Wyvern cautiously approached—

Grimalkin burst out of the icy shell. One fist slammed the Wyvern’s head up in an uppercut. The Wyvern rocked backwards as Grimalkin emerged, coughing. Frostbite turned his scales black. He fumbled for a healing potion.

“Feor was easier than—”

He rolled. The Wyvern Lord exhaled again. Grimalkin felt himself freezing and popped the vial into his mouth. He chewed it down, shards and all. Live. He had to stand. The [Sinew Magus] rose.

“What’s taking so long?”

He looked around. The wall was filled with Wyverns. Some were retreating with injuries. They were using this place as a staging ground to attack. They had to be driven off here, and the Wyvern Lord slain or the weyr would never leave. He knew it.

But he was alone. Grimalkin growled as the Wyvern Lord advanced, cautiously. It was checking to make sure Grimalkin was real by fanning its wings, watching the dust hit him.

“Clever.”

Grimalkin looked around. No one stood on the walls. He heard shouting from below. But the walls! Grimalkin looked around. He bellowed, in frustration at the Wyvern Lord.

“I cannot stand alone! I am not Zel Shivertail!”

The Wyvern Lord blinked at Grimalkin. He shouted.

“Drakes do not stand alone! Where are my reinforcements?”

He shouted to the air, to the Wyverns. But he was not unheard. Below him, far below, Chaldion looked up.

“Here.”

[Grand Strategist] nodded to the figures around him. He opened the scroll. The figures around him did likewise.

“Activate [Gateway].”

Grimalkin saw a flash of light. He turned. The Wyvern Lord looked as well. A few feet away, the air glowed. And Chaldion stepped out of the air. He nodded calmly to Grimalkin.

“Grand Strategist is in position.”

More figures stepped out of the light with him. A Dullahan with a huge mace, glowing red-hot and a tower shield appeared. He nodded.

“1st [General] Duln. Apologies for the delay, Magus. I was giving orders and equipping a strike force for battle.”

[Soldiers] rushed out of the air around him. They took up a formation on the walls. A Garuda officer pointed a glowing spear. They were all wearing enchanted gear and their weapons burned. Heat enchantments.

“[Engineers], reclaim those siege weapons! [Archers], ready!”

The officer bellowed. Grimalkin saw the [General] point at the Wyvern.

“[Volley Fire].”

Bows snapped as the [Archers] instantly raised and fired. Each shot landed. The Wyvern Lord recoiled as the enchanted arrows exploded and blasted it back. General Duln pointed up.

“[Phantom Volley].”

A second wave of arrows appeared, exact copies of the first. They blasted the Wyverns overhead to pieces. General Duln pointed.

“[Lineholders], advance! With me! Support Magus Grimalkin!”

1st Army advanced, pursuing the Wyvern Lord. More were flooding out of the magical gateway—until it closed. Nearly four hundred [Soldiers] had leapt through the gateways. And more were surging up the stairs far below. A coordinated push. Chaldion pointed.

“Lieutenant, hit and retreat. Cover the [Engineers]. [Speed Formation].”

A group of Garuda led by the [Lieutenant] shot into the air. They shot through the skies, as fast as Bevussa, flying in formation as they aimed at the first Wyvern. Grimalkin hauled himself up.

“Grand Strategist.”

“Magus. Are you hurt?”

A pair of [Healers] rushed over. Grimalkin looked around.

“The Wyvern Lord is immune to low-tier spells and enchantments.”

“I saw.”

Chaldion pointed. The Wyvern Lord was flying backwards, howling. Wyverns flew around it. The barrage of arrows had barely scratched it. General Duln pointed.

“[Shieldwall Formation]! [Rapid Advance]!”

The Wyverns and the Wyvern Lord exhaled. But this time the ranks of [Soldiers] didn’t freeze as the magical frost struck them. Their shields repelled the frost and cold thanks to the [General]’s Skill.

But it could not stop the ground and air from freezing. The [Soldiers] slowed, shouting in pain as their armor froze from the ambient temperature alone. But they were alive and they kept charging. [Archers] loosed arrows, hitting Wyverns in the wings and pulling them down into the range of the [General] and his elites. The Wyverns died, but the Wyvern Lord landed and struck a blow that sent a group of [Soldiers] flying.

“General Duln can’t handle the Wyvern leader alone. Can you take the walls?”

“Go. Saliss has nearly arrived.”

Chaldion’s one eye flashed at Grimalkin. The [Grand Strategist] looked around as Grimalkin charged after Duln. Chaldion stood alone as the 1st Army fought to take the walls. An [Engineer] swung up a ballista coated in ice. The siege weapon hadn’t been destroyed. He triggered it and a bolt went through a Wyvern.

“I will not let this city fall yet.”

The [Grand Strategist] stared around the walls. The 1st Army had caught the Wyverns off-guard. But there were nearly as many Wyverns as [Soldiers]. Without reinforcements, the group on the walls would be crushed. Chaldion slowly removed the eye patch he wore. His fake, red gemstone eye shone in his left socket. He whispered.

“[Path to Victory].”

The Drake’s eyes flashed. He looked around at Pallass. The [Grand Strategist] nodded.

“I see one road.”

His eyes found the naked Drake charging up the walls. It looked at the Wyvern Lord and Chaldion’s gaze narrowed. Then he stared down at something. The Drake froze.

“What is that?”

The light vanished from Chaldion’s gaze. He blinked a few times. Then he touched a stone.

“[Long-Range Command]. This is Grand Strategist Chaldion! Guardsmen! Fall back from the 8th floor, east! Climb to the 9th and hold the line there!”

Below, on the 8th Floor, Desk Sergeant Kel and the other fighters on the ground looked up. They stared at Olesm and each other in alarm, but then they rushed for the stairs. Chaldion spun. He pointed at the [Soldiers] around him. More reinforcements were taking the walls, seeing the fighting above.

“[Army: Veteran’s Knowledge]!”

A group of struggling Dullahan [Guards] fighting a Wyvern on a staircase paused for a moment as Chaldion shouted. Then their formation tightened up. They advanced, shields held ready. The Wyvern backed up. It twisted—the Dullahans were already bracing as its tail came around in the sneak attack Wyverns loved to use. The Wyvern recoiled as it failed to dislodge the Dullahans.

Seamlessly, the Dullahans hacked at the tail, and two moved left, into the Wyvern’s blind spot. They aimed for the Wyvern’s hindquarters, trying to hamstring it. As if they’d fought Wyverns a hundred times.

Chaldion had. The [Grand Strategist] looked around, surveying the battle.

“[Rapid Retreat]. Fall back—now!”

He pointed. A group of [Soldiers] fled as Wyverns landed, about to encircle their position. Chaldion nodded. He looked at another catapult.

“Catapult! Hit the Wyverns there. [Marked Target].”

The catapult swung around and loosed, hitting a cluster of Wyverns in the air. Chaldion watched the bodies fall. Then he turned. A shadow passed overhead. A Wyvern was heading for the lone Drake, seeking an easy target. The Drake paused. He flipped up his eye patch.

“[Fireball].”

A flaming orb shot from the red jewel in his left eye. It struck the Wyvern in the face. Chaldion shielded his head from the explosion. The Garuda squad flew into the Wyvern as it recoiled in the air.

“Take it down! Protect the [Strategist]!”

Chaldion walked forwards as the Wyvern crashed to the ground around him. He looked around.

“Hm. First deviation. And—now—”

A series of explosions tore apart a group of Wyverns on the stairs. A naked Drake appeared through the smoke as Chaldion watched. He kicked past a Wyvern. Spotted Chaldion.

“Oh, it’s you.”

Saliss of Lights stared at Chaldion. The Grand Strategist nodded.

“Saliss. You’re late.”

“What took you? I heard Grimalkin got here first. And before you ask—I didn’t hear your alarm. Kill me later.”

The two glared at each other. Chaldion turned his head.

“I have one path. The 1st Army is advancing up the stairs. 4th is marching on the city at all speed. I need you on the eastern wall.”

Saliss looked around. Wyverns were flying through the air there; the 1st Army had teleported onto the northwestern side with Grimalkin. No one but Wyverns flew there. The Named Adventurer sighed.

“This is why I miss my cell.”

Chaldion glared at him. Saliss paused.

“Five minutes, no holds barred. Agreed?”

“The city will pay you back. Go.”

Saliss popped another vial. Chaldion watched him sprint away. The [Grand Strategist] checked himself.

“Two deviations.”

He stared at the image of victory he’d called forth. It was one road. And the future was already changing. But the old Drake reached out for it. He looked up. Wyverns flew through the skies. And in the city, they were still harassing the [Soldiers] and Watch trying to advance. Chaldion reached for a scroll. As he did, he touched the magical stone and his voice echoed again throughout all of Pallass.

“This is Grand Strategist Chaldion! All fliers, land! You have forty seconds!”

Across the ramparts, Garuda dropped to the ground. Oldblood Drakes did likewise. Chaldion counted slowly.

“That is Grand Strategist Chaldion of Pallass’ voice we’re hearing! Of course, he’s the high strategist in charge of Pallass’ armies! Over Level 50—I went to his 50th level celebration! If he can’t clear the walls with reinforcements, no one can!”

Sir Relz was shouting as he pointed up at the walls. He and Noass had seen part of the 1st Army arriving and they were trying to get to the fighting. Sir Relz looked up.

“They must have used a spell to appear on the walls. But I doubt all of 1st Army can teleport up there. If Strategist Chaldion can’t reclaim the walls—if the Wyverns kill him, the army might struggle to reclaim them. What then? They can freely attack Pallass from the interior. If 1st Army can’t reclaim the walls—”

Noass turned. He stared at Sir Relz and then lashed out.

“If they take the walls? Control yourself you fool!”

The other Drake slapped Sir Relz across the face.

“Pallass will never fall!”

Sir Relz rocked back. He stared at Noass in shock and then nodded.

“Forgive me, Noass. I don’t know what got into me.”

The two Drakes looked up.

“What was Strategist Chaldion’s announcement? Fliers to land? That sounds like—”

A flash blinded everything. Noass and Sir Relz staggered, shouting incoherently. Above them, a Wyvern fell out of the skies, charred, wings burning. There was a flash of an explosion—and only then, the sound of thunder.

Lightning fell out of the skies as Chaldion triggered Pallass’ attack spells. But the lightning fell inside the city. Wyvern after Wyvern was struck by bolt after bolt. The Drake [Grand Strategist] stood on the walls and aimed the attack spells. By the dozens now, Wyverns fell.

Chaldion was laughing. His ruby eye gleamed. He pointed and the Wyvern Lord was struck by a hail of bolts. The Greater Wyvern screamed as it attacked the Dullahans surrounding it. Grimalkin saw Chaldion pointing. More lightning fell. The Wyvern Lord howled. Then it charged General Duln. The [General] raised his shield—

The impact threw the [General] into the air. Chaldion stopped laughing. The Wyvern Lord turned. The electricity arced off its scales. It seized one [Soldier] wearing glowing magical gear, and bit the Gnoll in two. Magical weapons bounced harmlessly off its scales. Chaldion stared at the Wyvern Lord. Then he shook his head and began picking off Wyverns lower in the city.

“Stay alive, Miss Erin Solstice.”

His vision of victory had seen only what may happen, what could happen. And he had not seen her in it. The future could change. In his vision, the Wyvern Lord had fled when the bolts struck it. In this one, the Wyvern Lord shrieked, refusing to flee or die. Chaldion gritted his teeth.

“Three deviations.”



—-



Erin Solstice had never seen a Wyvern before. She knew what they were. Vaguely. If you asked someone from her world, they might know. If Erin had been asked, she’d describe them as ‘like a Dragon, but smaller. And with less…stuff.’

And that was what Erin saw. A huge, winged beast. Wyverns had no forelegs, just two huge hind legs. They were like eagles, but adapted to run on the ground in their own way, oh, and they were huge, with scales like armor. Gigantic.

Like Dragons. But smaller. It didn’t make them any less terrifying. And they were attacking Pallass.

“Come on! Run!”

Erin grabbed at Rufelt and Lasica. The married couple ran after her as Erin charged out of the building they’d been hiding in. She was no hero. And she hadn’t gone out fighting when the Wyverns attacked and Chaldion sounded the alarm. The only thing Erin had done was grab Rufelt and Lasica and push them into the nearest building they could find.

Someone’s home. Erin had busted through the window and cut herself twice on the glass going through before opening the door. She’d healed the cuts and Rufelt and Lasica had sat inside with her. They wanted to go to their bar. Erin had told them to sit right there.

That was the sensible thing to do. Erin was no warrior. All she had on her was a pair of healing potions and Pelt’s knife. She had a realistic expectation of what that would do against a Wyvern capable of eating her with one bite.

So she’d stayed in the apartment and shouted at everyone she saw to get inside, opening the door twice as people rushed by. Most were indoors; the citizens of Pallass were smart enough to do that. And everything had been fine, really. Erin hadn’t known how the battle had been going, but she’d heard Chaldion’s voice again, warning fliers to get out of the skies.

And what she’d seen from the windows had looked good. Bad would have been Wyverns flying about, looking for prey, but it sounded like all of them were fighting. Erin had been reassuring Rufelt and Lasica, peering out the windows. She’d wanted to do something, but it was too risky and there was nothing in the home that could help Erin. She’d grabbed a frying pan and two knives from the kitchen just in case, but that was all. And everything had been fine.

Right up until a smoking Wyvern had crashed onto the house and caved in the ceiling from above. Erin had no idea where it had come from, but the entire building was coming down.

“Get out! Go! Go!”

Erin shouted at Rufelt and Lasica. The Gnoll appeared with his wife out of the dust. Erin ushered them out of the door and ran herself. Just in time—the building collapsed with the dead Wyvern.

“We have to find somewhere else!”

Erin was coughing, half-blinded by the dust. She looked around. The nearest house had no lights on. Erin rushed over to it as Rufelt doubled over, hacking and trying to brush dust off Lasica.

“Anyone in there? Hey! Open up!”

Erin hammered on the door. There were bars over the window. She yanked on the door as she shouted, but it was closed. Erin whirled.

Another house! Erin charged over to it. This one had a light on.

“Hey! Open up!”

“Go away!”

A terrified voice called from within. Erin kicked at the door.

“Open up! We’re going to get eaten out here!”

She checked the windows, but someone had put the shutters up from the inside! Erin growled.

“If you don’t open up—”

“Erin! Come on!”

Rufelt shouted at her. He was hurrying Lasica back. Towards the stairs.

“Oh no. No, Rufelt—we can’t go to the bar! Its two floors up! Let’s go to the prison!”

Erin ran after them. Rufelt was headed for the stairs. Rufelt stared at Erin as she pointed. The Gnoll’s fur was full of dust. He shook his head as Lasica coughed.

“The prison? Are you mad? What if the prisoners escape?”

“How? They’re locked up! I bet there’s tons of [Guards] there! And I’d rather fight prisoners than Wyverns!”

The Gnoll was shaking his head. He was in shock. And not thinking! Erin was cool—okay, somewhat cool—okay, she was afraid, but she had been in this kind of situation before. Rufelt was panicking.

“No, no. The bar is warded. It’s just up the stairs. We can take the stairs against the walls. Come on—”

“Rufelt! Lasica, come on, talk some sense into—”

Rufelt snarled as Erin reached for Lasica.

“Don’t touch her! We’re going to the bar!”

He held Lasica firmly against him. Erin stared at him, wide-eyed. Lasica stopped coughing. Through streaming eyes, she looked at Erin.

“It’s enchanted, Erin. If we get there, even a Wyvern couldn’t break in.”

“But—fine! Let’s go!”

Erin realized they were wasting time out here. She turned. Frying pan, knives. She had lost the pan when the Wyvern fell. But she had a spare knife and Pelt’s.

“Go!”

The couple didn’t waste time arguing. Erin saw they were headed for a stairwell set against the walls. Under the cover of the 4th Floor in short, where Wyverns couldn’t spot them. She sighed in relief.

“This way. There’s no one on the stairs—”

Everyone must have fled. Erin estimated that barely fifteen minutes had passed. It felt like ages, but everything was happening so fast. She ran past a patch of frost. Then she saw blood. Rufelt and Lasica froze. Erin averted her gaze.

“Don’t stop!”

“But—”

“They’re dead. Don’t stop!”

She ran them forwards. Erin was looking around for the telltale Wyverns. She was trying to think.

Weapons. She could use the knives, aim for the eyes. Anything else? No acid jars, nothing else—Erin cursed. She was terrified she’d trip and break an acid jar on herself. She needed a bag of holding! She ran up the stairwell set into stone, leading Rufelt and Lasica.

4th Floor, then 5th. No one was on the stairs. Erin panted as she got to the 5th Floor. She heard more thunderous booms in the distance. Was someone throwing lightning? Good!

“This way! The bar’s not far!”

Rufelt and Lasica pointed. Erin stared ahead.

“Oh no. No, stop—”

To get to Tails and Scales, they had to leave the overhang of the floor above. They’d be running out into the open. Erin charged after the two, but the Gnoll and Drake were fast! And they were ignoring Erin. Idiots! Erin had the rare thought. She looked up.

Pallass was at war with the Wyverns. Lightning bolts hit Wyverns, appearing out of the skies. Armed [Soldiers] were advancing up the stairs as fast as they could. They’d taken the ground all the way up to the 6th Floor!

But that meant nothing to an airborne foe. Wyverns kept diving out of the sky. There were only a few fliers in the air. Erin thought she saw a familiar green figure darting at a Wyvern. But then Erin saw what she’d feared.

Rufelt and Lasica were running to their bar. Rufelt fumbled for his key as Lasica looked up. And a Wyvern crashed into a building opposite the bar.

“Dead gods!”

Erin heard a scream. A group of people emerged, running for their lives as the Wyvern flapped its wings and hissed. Something had knocked it out of the sky, but it hadn’t killed the beast. Erin saw three Drakes, a family of Dullahans, a Gnoll—she shouted at Rufelt.

“Get that door open!”

“I’m trying!”

The Gnoll howled, his face pale under his fur. He was jamming the key into the lock. But even the most basic of actions was hard. Lasica grabbed the key.

“You have it upside down! Let me—”

“Watch out!”

Erin hurled the spare kitchen knife. She aimed straight for the Wyvern’s eye, but the monster moved. The knife glanced off its head as it righted itself. It had been aiming straight at Rufelt and Lasica.

Instead, the beast turned to her. Erin froze. Then she ran and dove behind a wall. She felt an incredible cold freezing her legs, but the blast of frost missed her. Erin scrambled to her feet. She ran back out, nearly slipped on the frost now coating the floor.

“Rufelt! Lasica!”

The couple had hidden from the blast. Now they scrambled to get their door open. Erin saw the other occupants of the house running for the bar. Two of the Drakes looked like [Warriors]. They were covering a young female Drake as she ran, claws over her head as if that would help. But the Wyvern was in the air. It dove—Erin saw it crush one of the Drakes flat.

Somehow, the Drake survived. He was screaming, but he hammered on the claw with a sword. The other was slashing at the Wyvern. The monster flew up, hissing. It looked for another target. Saw Rufelt and Lasica.

“No.”

Erin threw Pelt’s knife. It spun through the air and hit the Wyvern. The tip of the Dwarf’s blade sank halfway through the Wyvern’s neck. The monster recoiled. It turned to Erin again. This time it dove at her. Erin stared up at it.

“[Like Fire…]”

She was an idiot. Erin knew she wasn’t going to be able to use her Skill. She stared up at the Wyvern as it dove, moving to dodge. Too slow. It was tracking her as it dove. Erin grabbed for a healing potion. So stupid. But she didn’t regret a thing.

“Hairballs. And I just bought this scroll today, too.”

Someone muttered to Erin’s left. She saw the Gnoll who’d run out of the house turn. He flung open a scroll of parchment, pointed up.

“[Improved Featherfall]!”

The huge, falling shape of the Wyvern slowed. Erin nearly halted mid-run, but the Wyvern was still diving. But slowly! She saw the Gnoll shouting at her.

“Run! Inside!”

The bar was open! Erin raced towards it, staring upwards. What was happening?

Above her, she saw the Wyvern drifting through the air down towards her. It was…falling! But all the momentum was gone. Erin saw it trying to dive, flapping its wings furiously, but the magical enchantment was letting it fall at a feather’s pace.

“Everyone inside! Now!”

Rufelt was at the door, waving people in. Erin saw the Gnoll barrel through, and then the two Drake [Warriors] making their way for the door. Erin charged after them. She grabbed the Drake’s other arm and they ran for the door.

The Wyvern landed on the ground, screaming its displeasure. It turned for the bar. Rufelt slammed the door shut. Erin saw the Wyvern charging. Then Rufelt slamming a bar over the door. And then—

Thump.

Inside Tails and Scales, the door rattled with the impact. Once. Erin looked around warily. She heard a muffled shriek, and felt another thump.

The door rattled. That was it. The bar didn’t shake. The expensive alcohols on the walls didn’t so much as quiver in their vessels. Erin stared at the door. It rattled weakly a third time, and then there was silence.

“Oh wow.”

“Told you.”

Rufelt grinned at Erin. His face was pale and his fur was damp with sweat. Erin felt her legs go out from under her. She sat down on the ground hard. She was alive. She was alive—

She’d have to find Pelt’s knife again. She kept nearly losing it.

That inane thought popped into Erin’s head. She laughed, shakily. Then she heard someone else laugh.

“Dead gods. And I thought I was crazy.”

The Gnoll who’d saved Erin was bent over. Like her, he looked wide-eyed. But he glanced at Erin as she slowly got back up. She looked at him.

“You saved me.”

“No, no. I just used a scroll. You distracted it.”

He waved a paw, breathlessly. Erin looked at him, and saw Rufelt hurry back across the bar.

“Lasica! Are you alright?”

He was tending to his wife. Erin stared at him, and then saw the bar had more occupants. The Dullahan family, the young Drake—Erin saw one of the two [Warriors] hurry over while the other collapsed, drinking from a healing potion.

“Lady Salkis! Are you alright?”

Erin saw the young Drake look up. Erin did a double-take as she looked at the female Drake. Her scales were jet black, but glittering, lustrous. You’d describe them as onyx, without any other coloration marring or changing her appearance.

Erin stared for a moment—the Drake was clearly someone important. And she was shaking in her chair. She turned back to the Gnoll.

“What did you do? Was that…[Featherfall]? Does that work on Wyverns?”

The Gnoll shook his head. He’d gone over to a window to look out it. Erin hurried over. He half-spoke to her as the others in the bar talked in much the same, frantic, relieved way.

“Normally, not. But I bought an improved version of the spell. It works even on large beasts like that one, or so I guessed. Glad it bought us time. Still, that was three weeks’ pay!”

He groaned. Rufelt came over with Lasica. The Gnoll was holding his wife’s shoulder. Lasica nodded to the unknown Gnoll.

“I’ll pay you back, Felkhr. Thank you. You saved us. And you, Erin.”

She looked at Erin, still pale behind her scales. Erin smiled.

“Hey. At least we’re alive.”

She did not say the part about ‘why did we have to go to your bar? We almost died, y’know.’ Rufelt and Lasica probably got that. Shakily, they nodded. Erin turned.

“Felkhr?”

“Call me Felk if you want. I know it’s a mouthful for a non-Gnoll.”

Felkhr extended a paw. Erin shook it, and then a memory made her eyes widen. She’d thought he was familiar, but—

“You’re that Gnoll who jumped off the walls the first time I was here!”

The Gnoll laughed. Some of the others in the bar looked around as he grinned.

“That’s me! The Flying Gnoll of Pallass. But that’s just a hobby. You attacked that Wyvern to distract it.”

“Well, I’d have done better if I had something else. I need more knives.”

Erin scowled. Lasica and Rufelt looked between the two. Rufelt shook himself.

“We should be safe now. The door will keep the Wyverns out.”

“What if they breathe frost? Can it block that?”

“It should. We paid for it to be practically indestructible.”

Lasica murmured. Erin nodded. She glanced around the bar. Then she looked outside through the windows. She couldn’t see anyone else on the street, or the Wyvern who’d attacked them. Darn, she’d have to find the knife later. Erin reached for the door latch and Rufelt blocked her.

“What are you doing?”

Erin stared at him.

“Going to look around. I’ll just open the door. But if someone needs to get in…”

The Gnoll stared at her. He let go slowly. Erin nodded. She cracked the door open, stared around. No one on the streets.

“Darn. Those Wyverns are awful.”

“How did they get in the city? There should have been protections! This is Pallass!”

One of the Dullahans wailed. Erin heard a chorus of agreements. She ignored them, thinking.

“Not much we can do here. If I had my stash of acid jars, we could throw them at the Wyverns.”

“What?”

The others looked at her as if she were mad. Felkhr just grinned. Erin shook her head.

“Well, if we can do something—”

“The army and the Watch will drive them off.”

Rufelt shook his head. Erin propped her hands on her hips. The Gnoll was going back to the bar, pushing Lasica into a seat. What had gotten into him?

“So what, we do nothing?”

“Exactly! We stay safe! There’s nothing we can do to hurt the Wyverns, anyways.”

He snapped at her. Erin puffed out her cheeks. She glared at Rufelt—but her intuition was pinging her. She stared at him, at Lasica, and then her gaze travelled past Rufelt.

It was true, Tails and Scales was not Erin’s inn. They didn’t have her emergency supplies, or a handy Hobgoblin or Bird. But it was a bar. Erin stared at the drinks, ready to be mixed. At Lasica’s hotplate. Erin stared and then pointed.

“Hey, Rufelt, which of those are flammable?”



—-



“Ladies and Gentledrakes! I think I’m seeing the Wyverns being driven back!”

From his reporting position, Noass and Sir Relz had regained some of their usual aplomb. The two Drakes were grinning, pointing down into the city as they slowly panned the magical viewpoint across Pallass. Noass was pointing out flying shapes—a lot less of them than there had been twenty minutes ago.

“The Wyvern attack is being blunted! There’s fighting on the walls, but Grand Strategist Chaldion has led a successful counter attack and Pallass’ wall spells are activating! Indeed, a number of high-rank individuals have taken to the field and pushed the Wyverns back!”

“Of course, Noass. This is Pallass. After the—the initial attack, as one might expect, things looked hopeless. But the presence of Magus Grimalkin, Saliss of Lights, and notable Gold-rank teams such as the Halfseekers and the Wings of Pallass have reversed the battle along with the Watch and army. I think we just saw the Wings flying after a Wyvern down there.”

Sir Relz was adjusting his monocle, nodding. The two Drakes were doing a lot of that. Noass pointed above.

“We’re not on the top of the walls for fear of being caught up in the battle, but we can see a furious engagement taking place that seems to be going all the way of Pallass! I’m seeing more fliers taking back the air as the wall spells down Wyverns—Pallass’ magical defenses, no doubt being employed by Chaldion himself! Not only that, we can see some of the fighting on the eastern wall! Look!”

The vision turned and revealed a far, far distant series of lights, flashing and exploding. It looked like fireworks, but instead of crackling sparks, the viewers saw clouds of shining particles, crackling thunder—and conventional explosions. Sir Relz shook his head in awe.

“Saliss of Lights appears to be single—yes, single-handedly holding down the Wyverns on the eastern wall, to use a Human expression. That’s why they call him Saliss ‘of Lights’, by the way. The [Alchemist] is famous for his ability to prepare hundreds, perhaps as many as a thousand alchemical weapons. And he is using them all up in the defense of his home city!”

“One wonders if Pallass’ Assembly will recompense him for it. Surely so—and—yes! More Wyverns are fleeing! They’ve been decimated below and they’re on the run, see?”

Noass pointed excitedly. Wyverns were indeed flying up, escaping the fighting. Many had wounds, and the weyr had been reduced by at least half.

“It looks like the 1st Army has seized nearly seven floors. And the Wyverns are even being repelled by civilians at some point. Dead gods! Look at that Gnoll, loosing arrows from atop her apartment!”

The image focused on a single Gnoll with a shortbow, taking potshots at a Wyvern. Noass was nodding.

“Exceptionally brave. And very much in the Pallassian spirit! Get out of our city!”

He pumped a fist up and down. At this point, one of the viewers of the magical broadcast had to roll his eyes.

“You wouldn’t imagine he was in a panic ten minutes ago.”

Niers remarked to Foliana. The two were watching the broadcast. Niers had been watching the fighting. To the [Grandmaster Strategist], it had been a fairly neat retaking of the walls. Too slow for his liking, but Chaldion had executed the counterattack well.

Not that Pallass had been in danger of falling. The two Drakes had been unsure of it, but Niers could count. Pallass was a vast city. It had never been going to fall. The question had been how much damage the Wyverns could do.

And the answer was a lot. But not as bad as it could have been. Niers was counting and he estimated the casualties were around three to eight thousand at most. The Wyverns had done the most damage on their first attack, with the frost breath attacks on large groups. But after the citizens had fled, it was just [Soldiers] the Wyverns were fighting. For a weyr of a thousand, it was bad.

“Are they going to win?”

The Titan of Baleros rolled his eyes.

“It’s a Walled City versus a thousand Wyverns. More like six hundred at this point. What do you think, Foliana?”

“Mm. You tell me. That’s what I pay you for.”

Niers threw a piece of walnut at Foliana. She let it sail into her mouth and chewed. The Fraerling sighed.

“They’ll fight them off. The question is whether Grimalkin of Pallass was maimed or killed. These Drakes don’t know. That would be a disaster. The same as if their Named Adventurer dies, or their Grand Strategist.”

“Likely?”

“I don’t know. That looked like a Greater Wyvern. Remember those?”

“Yup. Nasty. Think they’ll die?”

“I don’t know. Now, shut up and let me watch.”

Niers scanned the image. That Drake, Noass—and what a name, Niers had to chuckle over Drake naming conventions even if it was juvenile—was still ranting about Pallassian ‘spirit’. He was pointing out more civilians getting in the way of the actual army by and large.

“You can see some Garuda youths harassing a Wyvern. I hope it doesn’t turn on them! But then, they might level! Pallass is in uproar. We even see—hello? What’s this?”

The ‘camera’ or rather, scrying mirror turned and revealed another sight, focusing on it below. Niers felt his heart jump. No. But there she was, right when he’d thought she wasn’t part of it.

“I—what am I seeing, Sir Relz?”

“I think it’s a Human, Noass. A rarity in Pallass. She appears to be throwing…what is that, an alchemical weapon? Yes, some kind of fiery explosive at a Wyvern! Keeping it from attacking that apartment! There! And there’s a Gnoll and a [Warrior]! Oh—oh, they’re retreating inside! Looks like they’ve distracted the Wyvern. It’s attacking their building—”

“No, don’t do that!”

Niers gripped the arms of his chair. Foliana peered at the young Human woman as she ducked inside and the Wyvern charged the building. She looked at Niers’ face and her eyes narrowed.

“Ancestors! I recognize that bar! That’s Tails and Scales, one of the most reputable establishments in the city! The Wyvern’s going to smash it! Oh—no—no, wait! It can’t break the building! It must be enchanted! And I see a squad of [Soldiers] already attacking the Wyvern! Splendid! Those brave Pallassian citizens—and that Human—helped save that family!”

Sir Relz was nodding pompously. Niers sat back with an explosive sigh of relief. Dangerous! His heart was beating faster than it had any right to. The Titan looked at Foliana.

“Hm.”

“What?”

“Hmm. Who’s the Human?”

“No one.”

“You think it’s your mystery chess person.”

“Shut up, Foliana.”

“You like her. Because she’s female. And not male.”

“I just—would you be quiet?”

A furry finger poked Niers. He found his steak-cutting knife and stabbed it into Foliana’s finger.

“Ow.”



—-



“Hah! Take that you overgrown—you—is it a lizard or a bird?”

Erin shook her fist as the Wyvern screeched outside the inn. She could hear [Soldiers] attacking it and Erin saw the Wyvern retreating through one of the windows. The others were watching anxiously. Felkhr grinned at Erin. She hadn’t been sure if the impromptu molotovs would work, but when she’d seen the Wyvern trying to attack that family, Erin had done it anyways.

“That was impressive. And you have a powerful arm, Miss Solstice!”

“Nah, nah. It’s just a Skill. And I’ve had plenty of practice. Hey! Rufelt! Got any more molotovs? Just in case?”

“This is a waste of good alcohol!”

The [Bartender] Gnoll complained, but he was already mixing flammable cooking oil with the spirits and a soaked cloth into a bottle. Erin seized it. Just in case.

“Better that than nothing! And it doesn’t really hurt the Wyverns, just makes them mad. I think the only way to hurt them is to throw it in their mouths. Or eyes.”

Erin nodded outside. The Wyvern had gone silent. She unbarred the door and saw a bleeding corpse.

“Ew.”

Lady Salkis, the highborn Drake, turned pale. The [Bodyguard] next to her—an injured Drake named Viss, snapped at Erin.

“Will you stop that? You’re exposing Lady Salkis and the others to danger!”

“What if someone needs help? Your buddy’s willing to help!”

Erin retorted. She was keeping the door mostly closed; wary of frost breath from above. She nodded at Felkhr. The other Drake [Bodyguard] blushed.

“It’s fine. Viss. I’m quite fine. We should all do our part to help.”

Lady Salkis was staring at the dead Wyvern corpse from across the bar. She half-rose.

“If someone is in need, you help too, Viss.”

“Yes, Lady Salkis.”

He sighed and stood up. Erin nodded, peering out the door.

“We’ll all help. Careful with the bottle. Just light and throw.”

Felkhr offered one of the molotovs to Viss. The Drake nodded.

“Give me one. I’m feeling better now.”

Lasica rose from her chair. Rufelt instantly stopped making a molotov.

“Absolutely not. You sit, Lasica. You inhaled too much dust—I’m not having you in danger.”

“It’s my city, Rufelt! If I can’t throw those—what did you call them, Erin?”

“Molotovs.”

“Yes, those! At least give me one to drink! I can’t stand this.”

“No. You’ll have water or something without alcohol. Remember what the [Healer] said? Sit, Lasica.”

Rufelt pressed Lasica down. His wife hissed at Rufelt.

“Stop babying me!”

Erin’s head swung back to Rufelt and Lasica with a frown as she checked outside the door. Something was definitely off about Rufelt. She stared at the way Rufelt was arguing with Lasica quietly. And then she stared at the drink Lasica wasn’t allowed to have. Erin peered at the molotov in her hands and then her eyes widened. She turned to the Drake.

“Oh my god. Lasica. Are you—?”

“It looks like the Wyverns are in full retreat! I see them above Pallass’ walls, but the ones in the city have fled! And the 1st Army is advancing towards the walls at full speed!”

Everyone in the bar jumped. Erin whirled. Someone was shouting. A Dullahan boy fled a mirror along the back wall.

“What happened? I am so sorry—what is this?”

The Dullahan’s mother was scolding her son. His head nearly fell off his shoulders as he turned. Rufelt blinked.

“That’s—I bought a scrying mirror after the last few attacks. Is someone broadcasting the battle?”

“Yes!”

Erin recognized Noass and Sir Relz. They were showing Pallass from above. The 9th Floor. She saw the city from above. Wyverns were flying up. Noass was crowing.

“The city’s been retaken! But for the walls, and it’s over! You can see all the Wyverns flying in the air, battered and bloody! They’re probably thinking of retreating and the 1st Army is on their way up to reinforce the walls! I just heard that 4th Army is approaching the city—why they were out of the city at a time like this we’ll have to uncover. I think we might be able to see the end of the battle, Sir Relz. If we move up—”

The Drakes were heading towards the stairs when Erin heard a terrific roar. It was echoed a moment later from the doorway. Everyone in the bar flinched. Noass and Sir Relz stared up.

“W-what was that?”

“Oh no.”

Erin saw the viewpoint shift up. The weyr of Wyverns was in the skies. But Noass had underestimated how badly beaten the Wyverns were. Nearly half had died, but the rest, wounded, yes, were still in the air. They were being showered with lightning from Pallass’ walls, and enchanted munitions.

But there were still hundreds. Now, something screamed from the walls. Erin saw a vast Wyvern, larger than the rest, spiraling upwards. It exhaled and dove towards the stairs. A huge [Fireball] sailed past it. The Wyvern breathed—

And the [Soldiers] charging up the stairs froze. Erin saw a hundred turn into statues in a moment. And that was only those directly hit. Three floors froze around the stairs as the Wyvern Lord screamed. Outside the door, Erin felt the temperature drop. She backed up.

“Oh no, no—”

The Wyvern Lord landed in the city, shattering frozen figures. And as it howled, the weyr descended. For round two. Erin backed up from the door. It was—she heard the scream twice, from the scrying mirror and outside.

“Take cover! They’re attacking again!”

Noass was shouting as the Wyverns dove past him. There was no one on the streets, but the 1st Army and the Watch found themselves fighting the Wyverns. And this time the Wyverns were fighting en-masse. They landed on the top two floors, attacking everything in sight, not dividing. Erin looked out the doors.

“Someone has to bring down that Wyvern! It’s resisting the lightning bolts! I see Grimalkin heading its way with what looks like General Duln! Saliss of Lights is still fighting—”

Sir Relz cried. Erin watched, facing the mirror with everyone else. Wyverns were fighting. Another dove past Sir Relz and the Drake recoiled.

Then—a huge blast of flames shot upwards. The Wyvern reappeared, flaming, shrieking! The two Drakes saw it flap upwards, and then crash. They rushed towards the edge.

“Someone’s fighting the Wyverns! That was a breath attack!”

Sir Relz pointed out a group of Drakes in armor.

“That’s—the Flamewardens!”

Erin recognized the team a beat before Sir Relz. She pointed at Keldrass.

“He’s wearing the Heartflame Breastplate!”

“What?”

Everyone watched. The Flamewardens were aiming at another Wyvern. It covered them with frost, and they hunkered behind their armor. Then they exhaled as one.

Fire engulfed the Wyvern. The Drakes were beating it! Another fell, burning and screaming. And Keldrass, wearing the burning Heartflame Armor led the charge on another! Erin cheered.

“That’s the Flamewardens, a Gold-rank team and former army unit comprised of Oldblood Drakes! Known for their ability to decimate the enemy from range and up close! And I see more fighting! There’s—who is that?”

Erin’s eyes widened as she saw the Wyvern Lord. It was breathing, beset on all sides by [Soldiers] and [Guards], but cutting through them with each attack. She saw a green Drake leap down the stairs, and slash at its side.

“Relc!”



—-



And there it was again. It wasn’t the outcome of the battle. It was how it played. Spectacle. And the unexpected. Across the world, people were watching for different reasons. Niers, to assess, to catch a view of that Human again.

“Who is that Drake? Did Pallass’ army have a [Spearmaster] that talented?”

Dragonspeaker Luciva was watching Relc as he attacked. She eyed the Drake as he delivered a swift attack to the Wyvern Lord’s side and leapt away. It kept trying to hit him, but Relc was dodging like mad, distracting it. She glanced across the table at Lulv.

“I—don’t believe so. I can’t place a [Spearmaster] within the 1st Army. Unless he’s transferred in. He’s adept at fighting. He’s buying time for the lower-leveled forces to fall back.”

Spearmaster Lulv frowned. He eyed Relc as the Drake tried to punch the Wyvern in the side. Relc shook out his fist, clearly swearing, and ducked the Wyvern’s tail.

“That was an idiotic move. But he’s quick. General Milka, who is that?”

The [General] shook her head.

“1st Army has no [Spearmaster], Lulv. And the Watch doesn’t either.”

“Not Pallass’. I think—that must be the Gecko of Liscor!”

One of the others exclaimed. Dragonspeaker Luciva looked around.

“But how—”

“The magical door. Liscor’s reinforced Pallass. Both the Flamewardens and the Wings of Pallass are listed in Liscor.”

Rafaema stared at the image. She narrowed her eyes at the Greater Wyvern. Spearmaster Lulv shook his head.

“Pallass needs aid from Liscor? This is a disgrace.”

“Not ‘needs’. Ancestors, he’s talented. I remember the Gecko of Liscor. He’s part of Liscor’s army. Officer-slayer. What’s he doing in the Watch?”

“Someone pull his file. Look—”

Relc was falling back. Dragonspeaker Luciva saw General Duln advancing with soldiers and Grimalkin.

“They’re having trouble felling the Greater Wyvern. And the weyr is attacking again. How strong is it?”

“Greater Wyverns are said to be as powerful as younger Dragons.”

“Hmf. Perhaps.”

Rafaema’s voice was cold. Spearmaster Lulv fell silent. Dragonspeaker Luciva frowned. Noass and Sir Relz were looking around at the other Wyverns. They were fighting and more unfamiliar faces were appearing.

“What is that? A [Strategist]?”

A blue-scaled Drake was leading a group of [Soldiers] and [Guards], independent of the 1st Army. As Dragonspeaker Luciva watched, they held a street close to the two Drakes, forcing a group of injured Wyverns attacking them to scatter.

“Not bad! Mark that young Drake!”

The war council was a lot more spirited than it had been. The worry they’d had was over. The weyr might be attacking, but they were going to be defeated. To Manus, the concern wasn’t over casualties. [Soldiers] might die and it would be a disaster if a name like Grimalkin or Duln was lost, let alone Chaldion, but the others would level from this battle. Now, Manus’ elite was doing what they loved to do—headhunt for talent.

They weren’t the only ones. As Sir Relz and Noass pointed out the city, more figures were fighting. The Halfseekers were industriously webbing Wyverns and kicking them off the wall, to land on the street a floor down. Names. The kind of names that made people remember the Halfseekers, or the Wings of Pallass. That could be the beginning of an opportunity. It could make a career. A legend.



—-



“The Wyverns are falling back! Look! More are falling!”

Noass’ voice rang through The Wandering Inn. Lyonette collapsed into a chair and Mrsha waved a paw in her face anxiously. Lyonette had nearly keeled over when she saw Erin hurling incendiaries! But Erin was safe. And it looked like the Wyverns were going to be defeated.

“Stop looking at the other Wyverns! Show us Relc!”

Zevara howled at the scrying orb. The Watch was crowding the inn. They’d come through the magical door, now that it looked like the worst of the crisis was averted. The common room was packed with spectators, for all that the [Grand Theatre] Skill was active. The rest of Liscor’s residents all shouted agreement.

“Relc’s taking on that Greater Wyvern alone! Dodge, you idiot! If you get killed I’ll never get my money back!”

Jeiss shouted at the scrying orb. Lyonette almost wanted to check on the magical door set to Pallass, but she didn’t. The Wyverns were attacking the 8th Floor and she might be hit with frost breath. She contented herself with shouting for people to keep sitting so everyone could see.

“I see—Magus Grimalkin engaging the Greater Wyvern—it looks tired, but it has yet to take any substantial damage! Truly, truly, dangerous. But the rest of the Wyverns are engaged on the 9th and 8th floor. They’re tearing up our [Soldiers]. Just—just too many to fight when they group up.”

Noass was speaking distractedly, pointing at a group of eight Wyverns assaulting Olesm’s position. Lism shoved people aside.

“Let me see! Let me see! Dead gods! Get some reinforcements to him, you idiots! Watch Captain, put more [Guardsmen] through that door! Now!”

He shouted at the others. Zevara was shouting, but it was too late. The Wyverns were advancing, trying to break up the wall of shields. Noass was staring at them.

“Grand Strategist Chaldion must be distracted. And all the other Gold-rank teams I see are out of range! Can anyone—oh! Oh! Look!”

The Wyverns were falling! One had retreated. A cheer went up through the inn. One Wyvern had blundered into the others—it was turning. Lashing out at its companions! And another recoiled as the [Guards] pressed the others back.

“What is happening? It looks like the Wyverns were hit with something—hold on! Yes! One’s down! Brilliant work! But what in the name of the walls…? Ancestors!”

A Wyvern crashed into a wall ahead of the two Drakes. Sir Relz and Noass stared.

“That Wyvern just slammed into the building! I think it broke its neck! Did someone throw it?”

Sir Relz shook his head.

“No! Noass, look! Ancestors! Someone shot out its eyes!”

He pointed excitedly to the Wyvern. The image zoomed in and Lyonette saw two feathered shafts protruding from the Wyvern’s eyes. People gasped around her and Noass turned.

“There’s an expert [Archer] who’s joined the fray! Those Wyverns attacking that [Strategist]’s position—yes! I see arrows in their eyes now! Brilliant! Dead gods, the [Archer]’s downed another! See!”

Another Wyvern crashed out of the skies, screaming, blinded. In fact, Lyonette saw another Wyvern go down as something struck it. Just a blur, launched from below.

“Ancestors speed that [Archer]’s bow! I don’t recall any archers this incredible! Eight shots, eight hits! From that distance? Who could it be?”

Noass was turning his head with Sir Relz. But whoever it was had yet to be seen. The Drakes began chatting excitedly. The viewpoint swung back to the battle with the Greater Wyvern, which was reaching its climax. Everyone focused on that.

Everyone except for a group of Antinium who had gone suddenly and unexpectedly silent. Pawn looked at Belgrade. Belgrade looked at Yellow Splatters. The [Sergeant] stared at…

No one. Yellow Splatter’s head slowly swiveled the room. He stood up, craning his neck. But he didn’t see the Antinium he was looking for.

“He’s…probably on the roof. I’ll go check.”

Pawn muttered. He stood up slowly. Pawn pushed towards the stairs. And he saw Klbkch looking around slowly. Just…looking. After all, they didn’t know. It was just a coincidence. A brilliant [Archer]. Yes. But they’d all had the same thought. And they looked for an Antinium, a Worker that was missing.

There was no way. Even he wouldn’t…surely not. Klbkch met Pawn’s eyes. The [Priest] ran up the stairs, towards the unfinished second floor. He flung open a door, shouted hopefully.

“Bird?”

Pawn saw an empty watchtower. And of course, of course, Bird wasn’t there.



—-



“La, la, lala, la. I am Bird and big birds are in Pallass’ sky. They must surely die. Why? Because they’re birds. And I am Bird.”

An Antinium Worker walked down Pallass’ streets. A [Hunter]. A [Bird Hunter] to be precise. He stared up at the Wyverns circling overhead. And he raised his bow.

Fwik. Thwik! The sound his arrows made as he loosed, one after another was soft. But whenever Bird shot, a Wyvern jerked or shrieked. His arrow sped through the air.

“[Homing Shot], [Long-Range Shot]. I have a thought. And birds are good to eat, because they’re made of meat. I think.”

Bird sang as he loosed arrows. He was bringing down Wyverns. So many and so fast that even Noass and Sir Relz were searching for him. Each arrow hit a Wyvern. Going through joints in the wings, hitting them in the eyes, opened mouths—

It was easy. For Bird. He saw where the Wyverns were going. He was a [Bird Hunter], after all. He paused as a Wyvern dove at him.

“Ooh, big bird.”

The first arrow missed the Wyvern’s eyes. Bird adjusted his aim, hit the eye on the second try. The Wyvern landed with a shriek. It reared up to breath, screaming fury.

“[Piercing Shot].”

Bird drew back—the arrow loosed. It shot through the Wyvern’s open mouth and the Wyvern jerked. The arrow struck the monster’s brain, piercing the Wyvern’s innards. It toppled over on its back.

“Ooh.”

Bird admired the still shape. Another Wyvern landed, screaming for its mate. Bird paused.

“No [Piercing Shot]. Okay.”

He reached for something. The Wyvern dove at him. Bird hopped sideways and tossed the acid jar into the Wyvern’s face. He rubbed at the acid as it splashed on his arm.

“Acid jar, acid in the face. Ruins all the taste. What a waste. No. Bad song.”

The [Singer] and [Hunter] walked past the writhing Wyvern. He aimed at its eye, loosed a few arrows, wandered on. That was all he did. He loosed arrows, three arms plucking arrows from his quiver and loosing, faster than any mortal [Archer].

That was all. Bird didn’t do any backflips, or slide down anything. He shot, stopping each time he loosed. Step, shoot, step, shoot. His arrows hit their targets, curving to strike what Bird wanted.

It was easy. And Bird was happy. Possibly happier than he’d ever been in his life.

“I was born for this moment. Probably.”

He sang as he went on. He wanted to find the biggest bird of all. Now that would be a good addition to his fortress of fluff. Although these big birds didn’t have feathers. Bird would think about it later. He sang as he walked on, down the streets of Pallass.



—-



“It’s practically impossible to kill with magic. Pull your [Soldiers] back, General Duln. No one below Level 30 will tackle this beast.”

Grimalkin stared down at the Greater Wyvern. It was on the stairs. And everyone, everyone was assaulting it.

“Magus! The Flamewardens are ready to advance!”

“On me!”

General Duln bellowed. The Gold-rank adventurers and the most elite [Soldiers] charged. The Wyvern Lord rushed forwards. It hit them—and rebounded. For all its mass and strength, the massed Skills threw it back. But it just opened its mouth—

“Oh no you don’t! [Triple Thrust]!”

Relc stabbed the Wyvern in the side. It twisted. The Gecko swore and dove. Frost missed him, but the cold froze his arms and side.

“Gah!”

“Now!”

Grimalkin charged in. The Wyvern Lord looked down as Grimalkin hit it. The shockwave of the two spells Grimalkin unleashed at once blasted the Wyvern Lord backwards. General Duln and the Flamewardens charged. The Wyvern recovered, twisted—

“Watch o—”

Noass winced as he saw Keldrass go flying. The Drake flew, never mind the armor he wore. He hit a building nearly a hundred and twenty feet away. He should have been splattered, but the glowing flames around the Heartflame Breastplate only went out.

“Dead gods, that artifact saved his life! Even the Greater Wyvern can’t break the enchantment!”

“He can’t take another hit like that. And Magus Grimalkin’s best strike didn’t so much as stop the Wyvern Lord.”

Grimalkin gritted his teeth as he grabbed the Wyvern Lord’s tail. It tried to throw him, as it lashed out at the [Soldiers] around him.

“Idiots. [Magical Anchor]!”

If he could have prepared—[Mages] didn’t fight enemies like this at a drop of a hat! The Wyvern Lord heaved and Grimalkin felt his feet leave the ground. He let go and felt himself flying.

“[Featherfall]!”

The [Sinew Magus] landed. The Wyvern Lord was reeling back. General Duln had struck it a heavy blow and dented its scales. The Wyvern Lord was bleeding, but not enough.

“Grand Strategist! The Wyvern Lord—”

“I see it. We need to drag it back up to the walls. Hit it with spells away from the buildings. And the ballistae.”

Chaldion stared down at the Wyvern Lord. It was refusing to retreat. The weyr was falling like flies and still, the enraged animal wouldn’t leave. It was intelligent—what was making it so stubborn?

Grimalkin cracked his neck. One strike. He had to punch through the Wyvern’s neck. His muscles were torn across his body. But he refused to back down. This—this was the flaw of his magic. Once his muscles were damaged, he lost his magical power. Grimalkin began to bind another spell—

“Grimalkin, are you adopting my fashion sense?”

Slowly, Grimalkin’s head turned. He recognized that voice. The [Sinew Magus] saw a nude Drake, posing next to him. Saliss of Lights was covered in soot, dust and dried blood—but he was otherwise unharmed. He gestured at Grimalkin.

The [Sinew Magus] looked down. His clothes were gone, either frozen or destroyed from impacts. The [Mage] stared at Saliss. The Named Adventurer had never had anything to lose.

“Saliss.”

“I was taking on the eastern walls. No matter how many Wyverns I take down, they won’t retreat. That’s their leader, right?”

Grimalkin crossed his arms, watching as Relc kicked the Wyvern Lord and then fled.

“I can’t bring it down alone. It’s resistant to almost all spells. Worse than an Adult Creler. If I had time to prepare, I could do more damage with physical weapons. Gravity, prepared spells—not here.”

The [Alchemist] was nodding.

“I saw that. Can you let me take a shot?”

“What’s stopping you?”

“I need to set up. So—six seconds? In the right spot. Also, Duln’s in the way.”

Grimalkin nodded.

“Done. Chaldion! Pull back!”

“General Duln, fall back! [Rapid Retreat]!”

The [Grand Strategist] pointed. The [General] and his [Soldiers] fell back as Grimalkin leapt forwards. The Flamewardens breathed as one and retreated. The flames licked around the Greater Wyvern and he hissed, but it did nothing to him. Relc bounded away as Grimalkin leapt in.

“[Ironskin]! [Siege Fireball]!”

He threw one in the Greater Wyvern’s face. It recoiled, lashed out. Grimalkin felt an impact slam him backwards. Pectoral muscles tore. He gritted his teeth.

“Thanks!”

Saliss threw the potions past Grimalkin. The Wyvern Lord turned. It’s head lashed out and it smashed one potion in midair. And liquid covered the Wyvern Lord.

It blinked. The other potions exploded around it. Coating the Wyvern Lord with…liquid? Grimalkin, rising, saw Saliss duck back as the Wyvern Lord whirled the [Alchemist] leapt out of the way of a breath of frost.

“Wow, that’s cold. Even my Icebody Potions don’t work on that!”

The [Alchemist] scraped at his scales. The Wyvern Lord was sniffing, trying to figure out what it had been doused with. It whirled on Saliss. Grimalkin stared. Poison? No—he saw Saliss blur.

“Here we go. [Slow Toss]. [Flash Hands]—”

The [Alchemist] threw potions, his hands blurring as he moved. Grimalkin counted fifteen—then thirty—the [Sinew Magus]’s eyes widened.

“[Haste]—”

He vanished. The Wyvern Lord stared, perplexed at the sea of bottles coming at it. They were all glowing, all filled with a sparking liquid. Flying…slowly. Saliss threw the last one, leapt away. The Wyvern Lord backed up. It flapped its wings, flying up. It didn’t like—

It flew past Saliss. The [Alchemist] waved at the Wyvern Lord.

“Combination attack. Lightning tempest. And you’re the magnet. [Remote Explosion].”

He snapped his claws. The jars exploded, releasing lightning. All at once. The bolt of lightning shot through the Wyvern, pulling all the charge out of the clouds, the air—

The impact threw Saliss head over heels. Grimalkin, already running, felt something kick his back. He turned. Saliss flew past him and crashed onto the steps. The [Alchemist] stared at Grimalkin, upside down.

“Please tell me that worked. I’m nearly out of bottles.”

Grimalkin stared at Saliss of Lights. The Named Adventurer who could destroy an army. If he prepared. He turned away. And then he sighed.

The Wyvern Lord was still standing. It was swaying, unsteady. It looked stunned. The lightning bolt had left a huge crater in its side. But it was still alive.

“Do you have another attack like that?”

Grimalkin began preparing a [Siege Fireball]. Saliss shot to his feet. The Named Adventurer’s eyes narrowed.

“A weaker one. Bust through those scales and I’ll melt and poison it from the insides. We’ll have to clear the floors.”

“Fine. Duln and I will advance in while you set it up. If we need to gather enough ropes—”

The Wyvern Lord howled. Above, the Wyverns heard the shriek of pain and lifted off. Saliss and Grimalkin backed up as the Wyvern Lord turned. Pain and fury glinted in its eyes. Saliss slapped a potion onto Grimalkin’s chest.

“Icebody potion. Get ready—”

The Wyvern Lord inhaled, panting, ragged. It would kill them! Kill them! They weren’t Dragons! It could not lose again! Not now! Not—

A blur. The Wyvern Lord’s head jerked. But the arrow still twisted and struck it above the eyelid. The Wyvern Lord turned. Another arrow missed its head. It reared back, searching—

An arrow struck the Wyvern Lord in the eye. But for the thick membrane that covered the Wyvern Lord’s eye, it would have gone straight through! As it was, it was like—being poked in the eye. Hard. The Wyvern Lord howled. It turned. Where—

Grimalkin and Saliss blinked. Another arrow hit the Wyvern Lord. Same eye, same spot. It didn’t pierce through. But the Greater Wyvern howled.

“Who’s shooting?”

Noass looked around with Sir Relz desperately. Grimalkin didn’t waste time. He charged in, hammering the Wyvern Lord’s wounded section with a fist. Saliss tossed potions at the Wyvern Lord’s head. They detonated, and the Wyvern Lord reeled. It opened its maw—dodged—

More arrows. All aiming for its eyes! They couldn’t pierce, but they hurt! The Greater Wyvern swiped at Grimalkin. Bit at the huge Drake—

An arrow landed in the Wyvern Lord’s nostril. An impossible shot. But the arrow curved and the Wyvern Lord felt the pinprick. In its nose! It howled and an arrow hit it in the eye a third time.

“Ancestors, it’s rising!”

Noass and Sir Relz scrambled back as the Wyvern Lord shot into the air. Grimalkin was clinging to one side, hammering at its wounded spot until the Greater Wyvern turned and threw him off. The [Sinew Magus] floated down. The Wyvern Lord stared around. Where was that damned—

More arrows were still flying at him! And now the ballistae and trebuchets were firing up at him. The Wyvern Lord dodged. And it looked around at its depleted weyr. Barely three hundred Wyverns remained. The others were tumbling from the sky. The Wyvern Lord faltered. An arrow bounced off its eyelid. And then the Wyvern Lord just…quit. It turned around, screamed once, and fled.

The weyr stared at their leader. The Greater Wyvern flew, heading south. Just—leaving. Defeated. It was done. Not dead. But just done. The lesser Wyverns flew after it, frantically abandoning the battle. They fell as Pallass’ spells and siege weapons continued hammering at their backs. They were broken. It would take them decades to recover from this. They were broken.

And below, Pallass erupted into cheers.



—-



Erin Solstice walked out of Tails and Scales in a daze. It was over. The city rang with cheering. Drakes and Gnolls and Dullahans and Garuda raced out of their houses, staring at the Wyverns. They were beaten. The last of them flapped off into the distance, and the corpses of the others littered the city.

There were dead. Oh yes. Erin saw the blood. Saw where the Wyvern Lord had made its last stand. But she also saw the people standing there.

Grimalkin of Pallass. Saliss of Lights. Chaldion, General Duln. The [Sinew Magus] had found some spare robes. Saliss had not. He stood on the steps, blowing kisses. And for once, the people of Pallass didn’t care. They surrounded the victors.

Heroes.

Relc, leaning on his spear, looked around as people clustered about him, asking his name, who he was. The Drake, surprisingly, blushed. Erin saw someone grab Bevussa and throw her up on their crowd. The rest of the Wings followed. The crowd was giving the same treatment to others who’d fought. Not Saliss, because he was naked. Grimalkin was too heavy, and Chaldion refused. But the others.

Cheering. Erin looked around. Lasica and Rufelt threw open their doors and the others flooded into the street. It was a familiar sight. Pallass had won. And this was their city. They could count the dead later. And they would. Erin knew the exhilaration would fade, and there would be questions, blame. Sorrow.

But for now, let us celebrate. That was what the cheers said. Let us shout. We are alive. Erin Solstice turned her head as she heard a pair of familiar voices.

“We are seeing the people of Pallass in the streets! I’m going to try and interview some of the heroes we saw fighting off the Greater Wyvern! I’m—excuse me! This is Noass! We have an important broadcast—excuse me!”

A pair of Drakes fought past Erin, shoving as one held up a hand-mirror encrusted with jewels, like a camera. Erin stared at them and then opened her mouth.

“Nah.”

She let them go. This wasn’t her moment. Noass and Sir Relz were shouting. And Pallass was triumphant. Across the world, people sighed with relief—or regret.

Tyrion Veltras began to turn away, disinterested in the proceedings. Magnolia Reinhart sipped her tea at last, her throat having gone dry in the interim. Flos shrugged and began talking to Trey and Teres and Gazi about his favorite moments. The Blighted King nodded to Nereshal, leaning back in his throne. Niers kicked a raw egg over to Foliana.

The Grand Queen waved at Xrn with one huge feeler.

“Enough. We have gathered sufficient data.”

“Yes, my Queen.”

But Xrn kept the image open a moment longer. She saw the two obnoxious Drakes trying to speak to Grimalkin. They were trying not to let Saliss dance into frame. Xrn almost laughed as the Grand Queen glanced down at her in annoyance. Then she heard Noass speaking.

“We saw that mystery [Archer]. Who was he? Some new [Longbow Sniper] in Pallass’ army? Those were incredible shots! We placed them from the 8th floor! But even at that altitude, who could fire that far? Who—”

Erin Solstice was looking about for Relc, or Olesm. She vaguely heard Noass shouting something. And then—

The background roar of the crowd’s cheering faded. Erin almost didn’t notice since it had been so overwhelming. Her ears were ringing, and she saw Olesm.

“Olesm! Hey Olesm—that was—”

The Drake looked at her, and then, only then, Erin realized her voice was alone. Alone, in a city of millions. Everyone else had gone silent. And everyone, from Grimalkin to Noass to Rufelt and Lasica—everyone—was looking up.

Spectacle. Drama. It was indeed for different reasons that people watched the attack on Pallass. Because they valued different things. And perhaps—perhaps you thought the Wyverns were the thing. Or the fact that a Walled City was attacked. Perhaps, before this moment, people would have agreed it was the Skills and talents displayed that mattered.

But now, in this moment, everything changed. And you realized it wasn’t about the Wyverns. It wasn’t about the attack. It was about that most innocuous of things. A wandering, solitary member of a species. An accident. Coincidence. Or fate. No, coincidence. But look at how the world shook.

There he stood. He’d found a Wyvern on the staircase. And being him, he’d had to climb it. Erin had no idea how he’d gotten this far. Perhaps people hadn’t noticed him with the Wyverns swooping about. But there he was.

Bird. He was standing on the Wyvern, happily trying to munch on part of a charred wing. For just one second, Erin nearly laughed at the silly [Bird Hunter]. Bird! He’d come through to fight the Wyverns. Didn’t he realize how dangerous it was?

She nearly called out. But then Erin realized how still everyone was. She looked around and saw the color was gone from Lasica’s face. From Rufelt’s too. But—they knew Bird. Erin had told them about it. They’d seen Antinium.

But in her inn. And from afar. And this was—Erin faltered. She looked up. This was Pallass. A Walled City. And there he stood.

An Antinium in a Walled City. Erin didn’t know if someone had whispered it or if the thought was so loud she’d imagined it. The enemy. Here.

“Ancestors.”

It came from Noass’ lips like a prayer. He stared in horror at Bird. Sir Relz’s scrying mirror was locked onto the Antinium. It was more than just one Antinium.

It was a symbol. And the world saw it. Clear. As. Day. The Blighted King recoiled on his throne. His court was in uproar. The Terandrian monarchs turned away in disgust or horror. Flos’ jaw dropped.

And theirs weren’t the important reactions. The Walled Cities watched. Wall Lord Ilvriss stared at his personal scrying orb. Fissival’s Scholarium was filled with statues.

In Manus, the war council had gone silent. So silent, you could have heard a heartbeat. But they’d all stopped. Dragonspeaker Luciva stared at the enemy of the Drakes.

“Antinium.”

She whispered it. And felt a chill like no other. Terror. At seeing that black-carapace. That alien, insectile form.

And in the Grand Hive of the Antinium, Xrn stared. In pure shock. The Centenium whispered.

“Who is that?”

She heard a sound and looked up. The Grand Queen was choking on a snack. And all that had passed before or since revealed itself to be just—

A prelude.



—-



“Antinium! Antinium!”

Erin didn’t know who screamed the word first. But as she fought her way through the crowd, the terror ran through them like a shot. The word picked itself up, coming from thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of voices. A primal fear.

The enemy! These were not Liscor’s citizens, but Pallass’ people. And they had never seen an Antinium except in their nightmares. And if they had screamed for the Wyverns, they wailed now.

A stampede pushed against Erin, trying to force itself down the stairs. The 1st Army was shouting. Erin ran past [Soldiers]. They were forming lines, as if Bird were an army of every Antinium in the world. Even the officers were white-faced with shock.

“[Archers]! Aim! Aim! [Mages]!”

General Duln was shouting, raising his head to bellow. Chaldion was staring at Bird. And the Antinium was just sitting there. Gnawing on a bit of wing, oblivious to it all.

“General Duln! Hold!”

Grimalkin was bellowing at the [General]. He was fighting towards the panicked Dullahan, but everyone was in a frenzy. All save for a few, like Olesm, Relc, Erin, Chaldion—

And Saliss. The Named Adventurer just stared up at Bird. He crossed his arms.

“Huh.”

Someone pushed past him. Grimalkin had grabbed General Duln. Ranks of bows aimed at Bird. He finally noticed. Chaldion snapped an order.

“Hold!”

“I’m seeing an Antinium in Pallass! They’ve—they’ve taken the city! There’s one here! It was the archer! Look at the bow! It’s—”

Noass’ face was drained of blood. He was pointing up at Bird. The army was in uproar. Chaldion was shouting.

“This is an order! Hold your fire!”

The army and Watch held, quivering. And then they saw it. The scrying mirror reflected her as she burst between a pocket of surprised [Soldiers] at the front. It picked up a scrambling Human, running up the stairs.

“Oh my god! Bird! Stop! Don’t shoot!”

Erin Solstice ran forwards, spreading her arms wide, although anyone with half a decent shot could have feathered Bird as he perched on the Wyvern. And there she was.

Erin Solstice. Bird waved at her.

“Hello, Erin. Look at this big bird. I killed it myself.”

“What is going on here!?”

Noass screamed. He and Sir Relz fought their way forwards. Confusion. World leaders watched as the two Drakes moved forwards. They could hear Erin, arguing with General Duln, Chaldion, and Grimalkin.

“It’s just Bird! He doesn’t know!”

“An Antinium in Pallass? Kill it! Grand Strategist Chaldion, we might be compromised. We have to evacuate the Assembly.”

“No!”

“Hello. I am Bird.”

Even a genius wouldn’t be able to make sense of it all. But there she was. They had seen her before, perhaps. But her face appeared in the scrying mirror. As clear as day.



—-



Flos Reimarch stopped. He frowned at the screen and turned to Gazi.

“That young woman? That’s the girl who poked out your eye?”

“No way.”

Trey breathed. He stared at Gazi, incredulous. So did Teres. Gazi smiled. Her eyes, all of them, never left Erin’s face.

“Yes, your Majesty. And she comes from another world. Her name is—”



—-



“Erin Solstice.”

Niers uttered the name slowly. Trying to figure out…everything from it. He looked at the young woman. And his stomach twisted.

“It’s her. How does she know—? Foliana, look!”

He pointed at Erin. The Squirrel Beastkin nodded.

“She knows the ant-thing. How?”

“I don’t—”

Niers sat back. Suddenly, he had a thousand questions. Terrible suppositions. Questions. He stared, unable to look away.



—-



“The…chess player?”

Az’kerash blinked. His black eyes and white pupils locked on Erin. Venitra gasped.

“I know her, master.”

“I’m aware. But this—”



—-



“Did you hear? She said ‘oh my god’!”

Aaron Vanwell grabbed Beatrice’s shoulder. The [Mages] of Wistram were murmuring.

“And she’s in contact with the Antinium. One’s in Pallass. This is a disaster! I thought Montressa said—where are those Ullsinoi idiots?”

Archmage Nailihuaile was uncharacteristically upset. She stared at the image.

“How did they do it? The magic door? Is it—what is it?”



—-



“It looks like a variant of the Worker class spotted during the Antinium Wars. Not one of the ones native to Rhir’s Hives. We haven’t seen Antinium since their exodus, however, your Majesty. Your Majesty?”

Nereshal spoke slowly. The Blighted King didn’t answer. Othius the Fourth looked up. His voice trembled slightly.

“A common Worker?”

“Clearly not, Your Majesty. I simply meant in form—this one wields a bow. It may be—”

The [Chronomancer] paused. He looked at Erin Solstice. And his face drained of more color. He met his [King]’s eyes.

“Your Majesty. That young woman. That word she used…perhaps the summoning spell…”

He said no more.



—-



“A Human?”

The Grand Queen stared. In every Hive, the queens gazed at the Human. How she protected Bird. The Armored Queen, the Twisted Queen, the Silent Queen, the Flying Queen—

The Free Queen nearly fell over in her Hive. Garry dropped his platter of food as he stared at the image in the mirror.

“Bird?”



—-



“Erin Solstice?”

Magnolia Reinhart sprayed tea across Ressa and the magical mirror. She coughed.

“What is going on?”



—-



“Who is that?”

Many had no idea who she was. Tyrion Veltras, [Kings], monarchs—but they all saw her face. And in Manus’ war room, Dragonspeaker Luciva repeated the question.

“Who is that? Why is there a Human speaking to an Antinium?”

She turned her head slowly. The Gnoll [Strategist] answered in a weak voice.

“She must be from Liscor. We know the Hive there is—”

“It has a name. Did it call itself Bird?”

Dead silence. Even Rafaema was staring, wide-eyed. Dragonspeaker Luciva turned her head.

“I want to know who that Human is now. Now!”



—-



Every [Informant] in the world was scrambling to update their notes. The Walled Cities were in shock. And in The Wandering Inn, Klbkch swore as he saw Bird in the mirror.

“That krxsching idiot—”

Mrsha heard the first Antinium swear-word in her entire life. And not even Lyonette paid attention. Prognugators Tersk and Dekass were just staring.

“An Antinium…in Pallass.”

Watch Captain Zevara’s head turned, looking at Tersk. Then Klbkch. And she remembered it. Lyonette remembered it. Mrsha and every citizen of Liscor remembered it. They were allies now. But the dream of the Antinium.

The Antinium Wars echoed. And there she was. Erin Solstice, trying to shield Bird. Grimalkin just pushed Erin out of the way. He knew Bird. But this moment was larger than he was.

“Antinium.”

Chaldion’s voice cut through the silence. Bird jerked his head around.

“Oh. Hello.”

“You are trespassing in Pallass. Move and be destroyed.”

General Duln’s voice shook with fury. Thousands of warriors were aiming every weapon at Bird. He looked around. And only now vaguely realized he might be in trouble. He looked at Erin. And he didn’t move.

Bird was literal. He took instructions and suggestion at face value. And he was gifted at carrying them out exactly as you said. That was because he was Bird. Not anyone else. Just Bird. Erin’s lovely, singing…

“Bird.”

Erin looked up at him. Bird tilted his head. He wasn’t afraid. He could see the danger, but he just looked at her.

“Are you in trouble, Miss Erin?”

Grimalkin looked at her. Chaldion looked at Erin. The world stared as Erin replied.

“No. I think—you’re in trouble.”

“Really?”

Bird looked around. He shrugged.

“I see. But if I am in trouble, that is okay. Because I know how to get out of trouble. Ksmvr taught me. He said it always works in his experience.”

“What…?”

Erin stared at Bird. Uncomprehending. And if she’d put the pieces together, she might have stopped Bird. But the Antinium Worker was a literalist. He listened. And he took things at face value.

He stood. Chaldion pointed at him.

“Antinium! Stand down!”

“I would like to go home, please and thanks.”

“You are going nowhere. You are under arrest—you’re—”

General Duln didn’t have a word for what Bird was. He just pointed, mouthing soundlessly. Bird looked at him. And then at the sea of faces. Into the scrying mirror. At Grimalkin, at Chaldion.

“I am going home. I had fun hunting all the big birds.”

“Big—birds?”

Noass choked. Bird looked at him. His voice was bright and cheerful.

“Yes. I am Bird and I hunt birds. That is my job. That was why I was created.”

He paused and muttered.

“Probably.”

Everyone was listening to him. Grimalkin spoke, overriding General Duln’s next words.

“Antinium Bird, you are under arrest for trespassing in Pallass. Move from this spot and you will be destroyed. Is this clear?”

Bird stared at Grimalkin.

“I would not like to be under arrest. I have things to do. You should not arrest me.”

He said it as if he was the one with the upper hand. Grimalkin stared at Bird. And then at Erin. Even she was speechless in this moment. He shook his head.

“Antinium, this is not an option. You are surrounded. Surrender or be destroyed.”

Bird paused. He nodded, murmuring to himself.

“And then Ksmvr said—yes.”

Bird raised his head. Pallass’ army tensed, but Bird just stood there. On the dead Wyvern’s back. He pointed at Grimalkin with one of his four arms.

“Tell me something, then. Is it war?”

His words came out of the Antinium’s mandibles. A cheerful shout. It echoed across Pallass. And Grimalkin froze. Chaldion stared up.

General Duln’s face drained of the last of its color. The [Soldiers], the Watch—they felt it.

Mortal terror.

It swept around the world. War. The Grand Queen looked at Xrn. The Centenium was frozen. And in his inn, Klbkch rose. His hands touched the hilts of his swords. And Zevara gripped her hilt.

The Twisted Antinium roared. The Armored Queen swept herself up. The Flying Antinium’s wings beat. And the Free Queen looked at Bird. He stood there, and cheerfully shouted down at Grimalkin. And Erin realized what he was doing.

Too late. If the Horns had been there—but no. Bird spread his arms. All four of them. One held his bow, another an arrow. He basked in the sun as it shone down on him, all arms spread. Like a dark angel. A harbinger of Armageddon. He knew no fear.

“I am Bird! Prognugator of the Free Antinium! I am unique! There are many Antinium, but the death of a Prognugator means war! Or do you not know of Klbkch the Slayer? Xrn the Small Queen? We are second only to our Queens! And I am Prognugator! I forget the rest! So tell me, is it war?”

He screamed the words. And Erin realized Bird was bluffing. Bluffing, happily repeating Ksmvr’s lie. But it was such a spectacular lie that it wasn’t. The Antinium waited. The nations stared at Bird.

Bird pointed down at Grimalkin.

“I am Bird. Prognugator. Yes. And I hunt birds. I am a [Bird Hunter]. See?”

He pointed down at the Wyvern. And he looked at Erin. She saw him twitch an antenna in a ‘wink’. Chaldion stared up at Bird.

“A hunting Prognugator? One designed for anti-air attacks?”

Dragonspeaker Luciva whispered.

“It brought down Wyverns. With a bow. I didn’t think—is this what they’ve been developing? I have to change my plans.”

Az’kerash stared.

“The Prognugator of the Free Antinium. A new one. No—a new Centenium.”

Ilvriss was closing his eyes. He was trying not to laugh. Or cry.

“Bird the Hunter.”

Someone whispered it in Pallass. Erin looked up at Bird. She looked at Grimalkin’s twitching jaw, the ranks of silent [Soldiers]. She just wanted to go home. Could she redo today?

In The Wandering Inn, Klbkch felt every eye settle on him. Even the Antinium. No—especially Prognugator Tersk and Dekass. The Armored Antinium stared, suspicious. Klbkch slowly nodded. He tried his most sincere, slow tone.

“For the record…the Free Antinium do not have a program developing new Prognugators. Bird is not a Prognugator. He is lying.”

Klbkch looked about. He met every staring eye. And he realized no one in the entire world was going to believe him.





Mini Stories – Crabs and Drinks


Story #1 – Mrsha and Relc

(In the days after The Wandering Inn’s destruction, before Erin finished her holiday, Relc and Mrsha sit in a bar.)



“Out darn spot! Out, I say! You see, this is the part of the play where she’s imagining blood on her claws, kid. But it’s in her mind. You have to really understand the text and the play to get that from just the script.”

Relc Grasstongue turned to Mrsha, and pointed at the script of Macbeth. It was slightly altered and he was clearly not reading from the exact script as written in the Shakespearian verse, but it was close enough. The little Gnoll nodded as Relc continued following the Players of Celum practicing on stage.

“See, the messed-up thing is that she doesn’t even stab the guy. She’s just got a tiny bit of blood on her hands after taking the knives. I mean, come on. It’s definitely written for a Human [Lady], right? A bit of blood and she’s not even freaking out about disemboweling the old [King]? Weak.”

Another nod. Relc held out a fist and Mrsha bumped it with a tiny paw. She was a Plains Gnoll and he was a former [Solder]. And a Drake. They knew what was up. Relc turned back to the script and Mrsha peered over his shoulder, wagging her tail.

For some reason unknown to everyone, Relc was in charge of Mrsha for the day. It was a scenario few could have envisioned, including Relc and Mrsha themselves. But Erin Solstice was out of the inn on her holiday, and Lyonette was very busy managing…everything in Erin’s absence. And because the day staff of The Wandering Inn was also on break–the inn was currently being rebuilt after its destruction–Lyonette hadn’t been able to get them to babysit Mrsha.

Or rather, even her monetary offers had failed to get Ishkr, who’d committed to another job to keep the money flowing in during the break and Drassi, who was on a long holiday. And the other Gnolls and Drakes Lyonette employed, while good workers, weren’t familiar enough with Mrsha. And everyone else was busy.

So, Relc. He and she were sitting in a bar, watching Liscor’s members of the Players of Celum practice. After all, the magical door was confiscated. Or ‘being managed’ by the city since the inn was damaged. Of course, at the beginning the city had needed it to clean up the Bloodfields and so on, but now it was just ‘theirs’ and Lyonette wasn’t fighting them on it just yet. Erin was in Pallass and Relc was happy.

“Hey! Another beer for the table! And get one of those milks for Mrsha!”

He waved at a passing [Server]. The Drake nodded and came back with a drink. If there was something wrong about having alcohol in the presence of a minor, well, it was only to Erin or Ryoka’s delicate sensibilities. No one else had a problem, including Mrsha and Relc. She sniffed Relc’s drink, but she’d snuck tastes of beer enough to know it was bitter. Goat’s milk now–Mrsha lapped it up happily with her tongue and then drank. Relc, fascinated, copied her.

“Hey! That makes it taste better. Who’d have thought?”

The Drake’s long tongue flicked into his own drink. Then he gulped a mouthful down and sighed.

“This brings me back. Alcohol, a hot day in the camps…you know, I have a daughter.”

Mrsha broke off from watching the [Actors] to give Relc an encouraging look that said ‘do tell!’ Of course, she was vaguely aware of this, but she was humoring Relc. She swiped some more crisped nuts from the bowl he’d sensibly ordered to go along with the drinks as Relc went on.

“Embria, you know? I used to do just this. Well, not in a bar. And it was more like me and the squad sitting around. But she would sit just here. And it’d be great. Hm. Damn. I remember swearing a lot back then. I shouldn’t swear so much around kids, right?”

He looked at Mrsha. She shrugged. She’d heard worse. Relc nodded to himself.

“Just like this. She liked it, too. She was always asking what we’d done that day, even if it was just marching through crap. What happened?”

She grew up. Mrsha tried to sign with her paws. Relc eyed her.

“Yeah. Yeah, I know. You’re alright, Mrsha. Hey, you wanna go on somewhere after this?”

He waved at the play on stage. Mrsha blinked. Relc not wanting to watch the Players? The Drake correctly interpreted her look.

“It’s not that I don’t wanna watch. It’s just that I’ve seen Macbeth like…thirty times? I know, but the last six times were all this week. I’d watch the Lady Macbeth Temile was telling me they were putting on, but he’s gone. Or dead. I heard he’s missing a finger. Tough. The thumb’s really important for holding the spear, you know? A pinky…”

Another shared nod. The poor [Actor] had lost one of the worst digits. Relc sighed as he watched the Gnolls and Drakes on stage. They were pausing to confer over the lines.

“I wanted to join. I’m actually on a backup list, in case all the [Actors] break their legs. And yeah, I thought about it, but I like them. Anyways, I’m a [Guardsman]. I’d have to quit to join up; I can’t make the time without it.”

Mrsha looked at Relc. She tilted her head sideways. So why don’t you? It’s what you like. Relc was unclear whether this was him picking up on her sign and body language, or the voice in his head.

“It’s simple, kid. I like my job. I like puzzles, and plays, but I’ve gotta be a [Guardsman]. You know? Even if Captain Z gets on my tail every other day. I don’t want to be in the army. But a [Guard]? I have to hit something. You know?”

Mrsha paused and shook her head. Relc sighed.

“Yeah, maybe you don’t. It’s hard to explain.”

Pensively, he stared out across the bar. Then he brightened.

“I know! Let’s show you! I know Lyonette said I should stay here, but it’ll just be a quick outing. What about it, kid?”

Mrsha blinked, and then nodded happily. Relc grinned as he got up, fishing for his coins and a tip.

“I knew I liked you. Embria was the same way. Follow me!”



—-



Twenty minutes later, Relc was coaching Mrsha, his voice gentle.

“Okay. You’ve got the knife. But it knows you have a knife. So watch out. It’s gonna pounce. If it gets you with its claws, you’re dead. Dead. You’ve got a weapon, and your smarts, but it’s bigger and maybe faster. And it has a shell. Got it?”

Mrsha nodded. She eyed the tiny dagger she was holding in her paw. Unsteadily, on two feet rather than her usual four-legged mode, she waved the knife threateningly at the baby Rock Crab. It was…well, a huge crab. Usually, the Hollowstone Deceivers were giant, hidden monsters with huge shells. And they were longer than you thought when you thought of crabs–at least, to Erin and Ryoka. Not so much circular as elongated near the back.

Still, they had many crab-like features, including two claws, long legs, and a shell. They were in many ways typical crabs. Again, until you considered that these Rock Crabs were huge. Even the children! This baby Rock Crab that Relc had uncovered outside the city was twice as large as Mrsha and it had just been born! The rainy season that had precipitated so much life in the way of fish and so on had also let the Rock Crabs spawn their brood. And oh, what a brood!

The muddy Rock Crab may have been big compared to Mrsha, but it was weak compared to what it would become. Relc had dragged it out of the mud and now it sat, twitching, and clearly regarding Mrsha and Relc. Looking for a way to flee? Of course! This Rock Crab had no shell, and it was far too small to take on even a quarter of the weaker species living on the Floodplains. However…Mrsha faltered.

It was still big, and this Rock Crab would live off of rodents and smaller creatures until it grew bigger. Perhaps it would be fed by its parent? She glanced at Relc and the Drake cheered encouragingly!

“You can do it! Just stab it in the face! Everything hates that! Remember, it’s gonna jump! Let it get you and you’re dead!”

She really wasn’t certain, but the Gnoll cub nodded and advanced, wobbling on her two feet. The baby Rock Crab backed up, and Mrsha heard it clicking dangerously. She paused. Stab it in the face. She aimed Relc’s knife, took another step and slashed–

The Rock Crab leapt at her. Mrsha forgot everything she’d been told by Relc, dove, and slashed with the knife. The Rock Crab’s new carapace was too weak to fend off the blade and she gave it a deep cut. But the Rock Crab was attacking! Mrsha snarled and slashed with her knife, darting left, right, away from the Rock Crab as it tried to snap one huge claw onto her head or body and crush and tear her apart.

“Stay mobile! Don’t let it get behind you! That’s the way!”

Relc roared, following Mrsha and the Rock Crab as they fought in the grass and mud. Mrsha nearly had her knife in one of its eyes when she saw the Rock Crab lower. Too late, she backed up, but the bleeding, cut Rock Crab leapt. Mrsha twisted, but one claw seized her paw. And the Rock Crab was pinching hard, as it drew her closer–

“Nice try!”

Relc kicked the Rock Crab so hard Mrsha felt only the impact–then she was staring at the Rock Crab’s pincer, still attached to her arm. Nothing else. A bit of blue blood trickled from the stump. Mrsha looked around and saw the Rock Crab land. It was…dead. Relc wiped one foot on the ground and turned to Mrsha.

“You nearly had it, kid. If you could have stayed on your feet better, I’d have given you a buckler. But that wasn’t bad! Embria took ages before she could hold a spear–we used to give her this cut-down one. Whaddya think?”

Again, Relc’s grin and tone would have earned him an immediate smack or kick if any other of Mrsha’s caretakers or mother had been there. But Mrsha just smiled and nodded as she gingerly prized the pincer off her arm. She felt invigorated! Pumping adrenaline, the feel of the fight–it was like being on a hunt with her tribe all over again.

And Relc knew that. Mrsha looked up and nodded at him. He sighed.

“Yeah. But don’t you go fighting anything else! But you get it, right? I can’t just give this up.”

He sat down as Mrsha licked her cut arm. The Drake eyed her.

“How bad is it? Wanna potion?”

He pulled a healing potion out, but Mrsha refused it. The cut and bruise on her right arm was a mark of pride! She smiled at Relc and he grinned at her.

“You gotta fight. Too many monsters in this world not to. You can run away and leave it to someone else but–aw, hell. Even Erin fights, right?”

Mrsha nodded. And so she sat for a while with Relc on the muddy hill, staring at the dead Rock Crab. In the end, Relc brought it back to the city since you could make something out of it! Unfortunately, Lyonette met them, having been looking all over for the two. And she put two and two together in an instant.

She did not in fact, smack Relc. But she did go for her sword. Mrsha’s mark of pride was healed in a trice and Relc had to flee at speed. He was no welcome in the inn for the next six days, which was too bad. Because he and Mrsha did understand each other.

And after a dinner of Rock Crab stew, which was very good, Mrsha had the Rock Crab claw in her room, polished of meat, but a trophy of her victory. Until Lyonette found it and made her throw it away. But the ensuing tantrum and fight was so bad that it ended up in Relc’s apartment.

A little reminder of an evening spent between an unlikely pair of friends. And two souls who remembered what it was like to be wild.



Image of Rock Crabs by Enuryn the [Naturalist]





Story #2 – Tersk and Dekass



(About an hour before the Wyverns attack Pallass, Tersk and Dekass of the Armored Antinium reflect on why they’re visiting Liscor.)

Wyverns flew towards Pallass. The Wandering Inn was reopening. Erin Solstice had just been placed under arrest. Wherever you looked, there was something interesting happening. And it was going to be an interesting day.

However, if interest was a sliding scale, nothing had tipped so far in the grand scheme of people’s day in general, in either Liscor or Pallass. True, some had witnessed the strange, sad, blue flame from the ninth floor. But those who had been able to see it from afar were very few compared to the majority who were as yet, experiencing days that were varied and not unified by any common denominator of interest.

For now, smaller things were fascinating. Like the reopening of The Wandering Inn. Two Antinium standing around and staring at the crowd, the other Antinium eating, and the hustle and bustle felt very fascinated. And out of place.

Both the Prognugator Dekass and Tersk of the Armored Antinium felt as close to naked as an Antinium could get out of their customary, steel armor. And that was only one of the artificial shells that members of their Hive wore. But they were undercover.

“Fellow Antinium of the Free Hive Pawn, is it customary for Antinium to eat as they please here?”

“Yes, Dekass.”

The weary voice came from Pawn, a smaller Worker. He was eating at a table with Yellow Splatters, Dekass, and Tersk. The two guests from the other Hive were being hosted by the Free Antinium as the first visitors to use the newly-constructed passage that would in theory link the Free Antinium to the other Hives.

It was still being expanded to allow mass-transport, but a small number of Antinium could currently make the long, long trek underground. That only two had after the tunnel’s construction was a sign, in Dekass’ opinion. It proved the Free Antinium were not that useful to the other Hives. He, personally, could not fathom why the Free Antinium as a Hive existed. They were so…inefficient. Their Hive so small. And they were poor allies of the Armored Antinium.

Not that the Hives weren’t all united. Of course not! They all served the Grand Queen and they were all complete allies. Absolutely. And the Armored Queen did not have her quarrels with other Antinium Queens, especially not the Twisted Queen and the Flying Queen and their Hives. If anyone asked, Dekass would absolutely explain that to them. It was one of the reasons he had blended so seamlessly into Liscor, posing as another Antinium without anyone noticing.

Anyone at all. It was also probably why Pawn had to stop and poke himself in the head every now and then. Probably a defect in the Worker. Dekass had pity for the Free Antinium, but only in an abstract sense.

He was, after all, a Prognugator, and he evaluated purely on the logic of what he saw. The Free Antinium had little to boast of. The Painted Antinium just wore…paint. The strange [Sergeant], Yellow Splatters, despite having a voice, was still inferior to a Prognugator’s creation process. And Pawn?

“I am waiting to experience the manifold benefits the Free Antinium—I mean, our Hive has to offer…us.”

Dekass looked around, sitting with military stiffness. Pawn’s antennae waved and he looked around. He met Tersk’s gaze, then Yellow Splatters. Wearily, Pawn replied.

“I am sure you will enjoy the food when it arrives, Dekass.”

“Waiting around for food is extremely inefficient. We have already waited two minutes and fifteen seconds. Is this delay customary of…our Hive?”

Pawn paused.

“This is not our Hive. This is an inn. We are visiting it and it is very busy.”

“For optional nutritional supplementation. Tersk has explained it to me, but I still do not see the benefits. Why do Antinium need additional nutrients? Is the Hive’s resource that low?”

Challenging questions from Dekass. He was pleased to note that Pawn put his head in his hands. All four of them. Clearly, Dekass was exposing many flaws of the Free Antinium. He didn’t quite understand why Tersk kept glaring, but Dekass would make a full report to the Armored Queen. The Free Antinium had nothing valuable! Nothing except their strategic location under Liscor.

And…Klbkch the Slayer. Dekass clicked his mandibles softly together a few times. He looked around warily. And him. But everything else? No.

For some reason, the conversation kept ending abruptly. Dekass, waiting impatiently as he surveyed the inn, decided to keep probing the two Free Antinium. After all, they had to wait for their food. What an inefficient system! And this Yellow Splatters had insisted that the other Workers and Soldiers be served first. But this table was filled with the most important Antinium!

It boggled the mind. What had changed Tersk so after visiting this place? Dekass clicked his mandibles before speaking.

“The two week delay we encountered on…not arriving in the city was regrettable. However, I have toured the Free Antinium’s facilities thoroughly.”

“Extensively.”

Pawn agreed. Yellow Splatters rumbled behind him.

“Aggravatingly.”

Dekass decided to ignore that last comment. He looked at Tersk.

“When will we depart, Tersk? We must return to our…designated work area soon.”

“When we have eaten food.”

Tersk replied absently. He was locked onto the Drake and Gnolls circulating the room with trays. Dekass did not see the point. He folded two of his four arms.

“We have imbibed sufficient nutrients each day in the Hive. I do not see why—”

“Sorry for the delay! Four bowls of soup! Here you are Pawn, Yellow Splatters!”

A bright voice made all four Antinium turn. Pawn uttered a prayer of relief as he turned to the server.

“Thank you, Lyonette.”

“No problem, Pawn. Let me know if you or the Antinium want seconds! I’ll come back later, but it is busy—Relc sit back down and get out of the kitchen! I’ll get you more food!”

Lyonette ran off. Dekass noted Pawn’s head turning to follow her. That was another peculiarity. Of course, his cover was perfect, but the Human hadn’t even looked twice at the Antinium. And Dekass had seen Drakes and other species before. They had screamed and fled. Or died.

The thought made Dekass restless. This was one of the few times he’d been deployed out of the Hive on a non-confrontational mission. The Armored Antinium did not do ‘stealth’, so reconnaissance was limited. And Prognugators were far too valuable to waste.

What if this sustenance was poisoned? Tersk had talked about it nonstop, as if it was somehow more nutritional somehow. But Dekass eyed the steaming bowl and frowned.

“Tersk. Has this bowl been thoroughly tested for—”

He looked sideways to see Tersk practically dumping huge spoonfuls of soup into his mouth. Dekass stared. Then he looked around. Pawn, Yellow Splatters, and Tersk were eating. Tersk was ravenous, but Pawn and Yellow Splatters ate with a controlled grace. But their waving antennae and raised mandibles told Dekass they were enjoying it.

Enjoying…food?

Dekass looked at the hot bowl of acid fly soup he’d been served, complete with sausage and a very nice spread of veggies mixed with white rice. All tied together by a flavorful, hot broth. No gluten; the Antinium were allergic to it. He gingerly opened his mandibles and ladled a bite of soup into his mouth. Suspiciously. And then—

Flavor. Dekass paused as the soup hit his internal taste receptors. His entire body stopped. He began to shake. Pawn stared at Dekass and sighed.

“Finally.”



—-



About twenty minutes later, Belgrade arrived at the inn. The Antinium hurried into the inn and looked around. It was packed. But he saw Yellow Splatters at once and hurried over to the table.

“I apologize for the delay. Anand delayed in taking over my shift. He expresses his fervent desire for food. And he wished to take my spot.”

“Is he upset?”

Pawn looked up anxiously. He and Yellow Splatters were eating a second bowl of the warm soup. Belgrade nodded.

“Yes. However, I won the chess game three times out of five, so I have the right to visit on this day. Anand wished to speak with Revalantor Klbkch anyways. Food is secondary for him. Is Erin here yet?”

“Not yet. We are eating. Please, sit.”

Belgrade sat. He saw Pawn turn and wave at a passing server. But the Worker couldn’t help but notice a…pile. Of dishes. Next to him. He turned his head.

The Antinium shared food equally. One Antinium didn’t eat more than the others. Of course, Pawn visited the inn more than the others, but he never asked for anything the other Antinium didn’t get. And he shared Lyonette’s treats, even brought food into the Hive. And he conjured his magic bread each day.

So it was a bit…odd…to see the pile of plates, bowls, and cups in every conceivable container stacked neatly next to one chair. It looked like someone had eaten half of the inn’s dishes—and then tried to lick the table clean. Without a tongue.

“Pawn, are you substantially underfed? Yellow Splatters?”

“No. Tersk and Dekass were experiencing food here.”

Belgrade’s mandibles lowered noticeably.

“Ah. Are they here?”

Tersk was one thing, but Dekass another. But Pawn smiled.

“I believe Dekass has understood the merits of Liscor at last, Belgrade.”

“Oh. Good. I still do not like him. Where are they?”

Pawn pointed. Belgrade looked around just in time to see two very stuffed Antinium waddle over to the bar.

Drassi was happy. The [Gossip] may have had her class as a vocation, but she had any number of lower-level classes. Liscor’s mandatory [Soldier] class, a [Receptionist] class she’d had for all of eight levels before she got fired for chatting too much at the Adventurer’s Guild and her latest class—[Barmaid].

And now, she’d evolved her class into [Bartender]. And Drassi was happy. Bartending was a great job. Sure, you had to know how to mix drinks and she was still learning, but Erin was bad with alcohol and her idea of good bartending was Drassi filling mugs, not mixing drinks. And meanwhile, Drassi could chat.

“So, I haven’t seen Erin, but between you and me, I know where she is. Pallass Hunting. It’s some fancy hunting experience for Gnolls and Drakes. She was talking with Rufelt and Lasica after her inn broke and they sent her over for some actual rest and relaxation.”

She was leaning on her bar, chatting with Elirr and Krshia. Everyone had come by to ask Liscor’s number one chatterbox about Erin. Even Lism! The grumpy Drake was sitting with Olesm and Drassi was glad he wasn’t pestering her about ‘that darned Human’. But Krshia and Elirr were friends.

“Pallass Hunting?”

Elirr looked blank as Drassi explained the concept. He shook his head along with Krshia.

“City Gnolls, no? If they want a hunting experience, have them come to Liscor. Our [Hunters] can show them the experience of running away from Rock crabs and avoiding Shield Spider pits.”

“Well, I think the point is that it’s easy. But I hope she comes back soon! The inn’s not the same without her, right? I was just thinking—oh! Sorry! One second!”

Drassi saw two people standing at the bar out of the corner of her eye. She turned—she was working and Lyonette had had words with her—and stopped.

“Hello. We are ordinary Antinium. We would like to peruse your supply of liquids.”

Tersk and Dekass stared at Drassi’s bar. They stared at the drinks. They stared at Drassi. She stared back. The Drake’s mouth opened. She looked at Krshia and Elirr. The Gnolls blinked at the…strange Antinium. They’d been wandering around the city and the Council had been asking what was going on, but they did have a deal with the Antinium.

“Um—you want drinks?”

“Yes. We have money. You have liquids. I am told it is customary to drink.”

One of the Antinium looked at Drassi challengingly, as if she was going to dispute the facts he’d been informed of. She hesitated, but Drassi was never going to miss this prime gossiping experience.

“Uh—of course! Sit down, anywhere you like! On this side of the bar. Drinks! For money! Yeah! That’s how it works! I have never had an Antinium have a drink here. That’s amazing.”

The two Antinium froze as they sat on stools. They looked at each other quickly, and one of them raised his hand.

“Ah, but we are ordinary Antinium so any misapprehension you have is clearly your fault, Miss.”

“…Right. Uh—what do you want to drink?”

“What liquids are customary?”

Dekass craned his neck to see the menu on the chalkboard. An actual drinks list. Drassi beamed.

“Well, most people get an ale, but I know Antinium have this thing about gluten. So—we have stronger stuff. Gin, rums—whiskeys, although they’re hot—”

“What is the point of drinking a liquid other than water? Is there an enhanced nutritional benefit? Does it taste good? That is important information.”

Dekass interrupted urgently. The Antinium had food all over his mandibles. Drassi thought she’d seen him inhaling food. She paused.

“Well—yes! They’ll make you fat. Believe me, I used to drink half my meals. I had this awesome time with Selys when we were—ahem. Yes, they do taste different too. Some people don’t like the taste! Erin hates ale. And she doesn’t drink, which is weird for an [Innkeeper]. Then again, if you’ve met Peslas—he’s another [Innkeeper], you can appreciate not having a gut like—”

The two Antinium were just staring at her. The [Gossip] realized they had no idea what she was saying. And for once, she was stymied. She—she felt a pang. She had to up her [Gossip] level! Until she could chat with Antinium! But for now, Drassi gave them a proper explanation.

“The main thing is alcohol. People like to get drunk.”

“Drunk? What is this phenomenon of which you speak, [Bartender] Drake? I am currently undecided on your gender, by the way.”

Drassi looked at Tersk. She looked at Dekass to make sure they weren’t joking. Slowly, she reached for a cup. She’d thought Antinium had tough lives recently, but now she was convinced Erin was right about them. It was just like Numbtongue. Drassi was going to cry about this later! And tell all her friends!

“Why don’t you…try this?”

Dekass and Tersk stared at the tumbler full of deep rum. They looked at each other, and then Dekass reached for the glass.



—-



Four minutes later, Tersk and Dekass sat at the bar. They were drinking. And talking. Both sipped from the rum as Drassi had shown them. They were enjoying themselves. And talking.

“That was…a unique experience, Prognugator Tersk. I begin to understand. I had been unimpressed so far, but now I am impressed. Yes.”

Dekass nodded a few times at Tersk. He wasn’t tipsy—yet. But he’d eaten so much he was entering the first food coma any Antinium had ever experienced in Izril. Well, outside of the Queens. Tersk waved one antennae at Dekass, very pleased. He’d eaten almost as much as the younger Prognugator.

“The Free Antinium have little in the way of military might or other unique military resources, Dekass. That is what I observed of my time there. They have more unquantifiable attributes. Such as…morale. And, I think, an understanding of the facet of living that escapes even the Armored Antinium.”

“I did not comprehend. But after eating that…food, I did. I begin to finally agree with your point, Tersk. Is this what you wished to show the Armored Queen?”

The older Prognugator of the Armored Hive nodded. He waved one hand around the inn. Dekass was enjoying the rum. It had a pleasant quality.

“As I mentioned to you, Dekass, the Free Antinium are weak. Weak in shell and number. But…they have this. Bartender Drassi, another shot, please.”

“Coming up!”

Drassi filled their tumblers as she hurried along her busy bar. The two Antinium stared at the second shots of dark rum. Then both Antinium lifted the glass up and drank it down efficiently. Drassi blinked.

“Wait. I told you that doing shots isn’t—you drink and socialize, remember?”

Dekass nodded.

“I recall your lecture, female Drassi [Bartender]. However, I have socialized adequately without this liquid. It is somewhat tasty, but I must experience this new phenomenon of which we speak. We will then imbibe until drunkenness begins. Will this be ample funding?”

He reached into his bag of holding he had been issued for this mission. Drassi was protesting.

“Look, I know you’re Antinium, but I can’t be in trouble if you get drunk. And if all the Antinium at the bar want a drink, I don’t know if Pawn’s budget—”

“We are paying for ourselves. This is our funding. Is it ample?”

Dekass slapped a handful of gold coins on the bar. Drassi stopped mid-sentence. She looked at Dekass, at Tersk, and then at Lyonette. The [Princess] pointed, and signaled Drassi as adeptly as Mrsha.

“—You know what? We can work with this. You want to get drunk? Let’s just see how many alcohols Erin has…”

Before the Wyvern attack commenced and Zevara charged into the inn to demand Lyonette grab the door, and Tersk’s secret scrying orb was compromised by Wistram’s alert, the inn was lively and full of laughter. And part of the entertainment for the people still deprived of Erin Solstice was seeing two increasingly drunk Antinium talking louder and louder at the bar.

They were obviously, obviously ordinary Antinium. As Dekass kept trying to reassure people. He was enjoying himself. And what was the harm?

Many dismissed it as the usual Antinium oddity. But at a table, a discretely watching Antinium slowly thunked his own head onto the top of his tankard. Repeatedly. He only stopped when a Drake leaned over. Relc eyed Dekass and Tersk as they began asking how they knew they were drunk.

“Hey, Klbkch. Who’re those new Ants? New types of Soldiers in your Hive? Come on, you’ve been in a bad mood all week. Lighten up, lay it on your pal.”

Klbkch turned to stare at Pawn. The Worker raised his arms helplessly. He’d done his best. Klbkch shook his head.

“I do not wish to talk about it.”

His head hurt. But even so, he sat back. At least the two Prognugators hadn’t done something shockingly idiotic. Just mundanely stupid. And Tersk and Dekass enjoyed themselves. The Free Antinium were weak in military might, but they had food. And that…that was worth something.

For a moment, everything was peacefully entertaining. On top of his tower, Bird stared at the sky. But the big birds were long gone. He sighed.

“Life is very sad today.”

About seventeen minutes later, the Wyverns attacked.





7.04


“Is it war?”

Three words. An Antinium standing on a dead Wyvern. In the City of Invention. If you were writing a newspaper headline, you wouldn’t even need to think. But this was no report, a story to be written after the fact with all the little details.

It was happening live. Now. Bird stood, staring interestedly down at the rows of arrows aimed at him, the Drake [Mages] aiming wands and staves—even one of the ballistae on the walls had been swung around to cover him.

Not to mention Grimalkin, Chaldion, General Duln, and Saliss of Lights. The Antinium was surrounded, with no possibility of escape or victory.

And yet—he was Antinium. And the Hives waited. And the Walled Cities waited. Because if you bluffed well enough, the lie became the truth.

The Third Antinium War. Erin Solstice was frozen in place. She didn’t know what to do. Tackle Bird? Shout he was lying? Start throwing sad fire at people until everyone started crying?

Every idea ended with something going terribly wrong. This was not a minor incident. This was—it could be the third war to sweep Izril, the one that would plunge Liscor, the continent, everything Erin knew into a conflict that wouldn’t end with a single desperate battle against Wyverns or other monsters. Or even countless thousands of Goblin deaths.

“Is it war? Tell me, please. I am getting tired of waiting.”

Bird’s cheerful voice was hilarious if it weren’t so terrifying. Erin looked around. Everyone was frozen, but Noass and Sir Relz were still broadcasting the image of Bird. All eyes were on the actors of the scene.

Grimalkin, Chaldion, and Duln for Pallass. Bird for the Antinium. And…Erin. But aside from Bird, everyone was still, weighing the consequences. For the first time in her life, Erin was paralyzed. It was like playing chess blind and without knowing where any of the pieces were. And checkmate? Oh, that was just war.

All eyes slowly turned from Erin to Grimalkin, and then to General Duln. And then, almost naturally, to Chaldion. Because the Drake [Strategist] was the only one moving. His eyes were narrowed and he was glancing at Erin, at Bird, around the city. Assessing. Analyzing. But unlike Erin, he seemed to see a path.

Perhaps not to victory, but a route nevertheless. The world held its breath. At this moment, when the stakes were so high, where could you go from here? What would happen next? Because standing still forever wasn’t an option.

Bird was getting bored. And his cheerful innocence might provoke a stray arrow. Or more.

So Chaldion moved. The [Grand Strategist] turned, smoothly, and Erin felt her heart jerk in her chest. Every head snapped towards Chaldion. The Drake’s clawed hand rose, moving, pointing—

At Noass and Sir Relz. Chaldion spoke.

“Restrain those two. Confiscate the scrying mirror and break the scrying spell. [Mages], cast anti-divination wards. Now.”

Erin blinked. Noass and Sir Relz, the two [Commentators] who’d broadcast the battle blinked. The [Soldiers] and Watch, on a razor’s edge of anticipation, paused for only a second at the unexpected order, and then rushed at the two Drakes.

“Wait! You can’t do this! The world deserves to kn—”

Noass was tackled by three Drakes and a Gnoll. Sir Relz fought, and the aforementioned world saw a sea of faces grabbing for the mirror he held. The other Drake tried to shout.

“This isn’t right! We deserve freedom! Freedom of the, uh—”

They weren’t quite there. Part of them knew the tune, but not the words. The two Drakes disappeared—the viewers got an earful of shouting, scrabbling, swearing—and then the sight of a Gnoll staring directly into the mirror.

The projection vanished. And everyone was left to wonder ‘what happened next?’. Many waited, tense, demanding a [Message] spell from Pallass, seeking someone who knew. They experienced uncertainty, and for the first time cursed a world in which information wasn’t instantaneous and readily available. And this was a world in which Couriers and Runners still delivered information by foot.

In the end, what the world got wasn’t a confirmation of war or anything else. It was simply a broadcasted message, written thusly from Pallass itself, to go along with the myriad of reports by people who had seen or allegedly seen the entire thing:



Antinium repatriated to Liscor without incident under Pallassian authority. Restoration and damage assessments of Pallass underway. The Walled City stands.



It wasn’t quite as bold as brass. And it wasn’t as clear as anyone wanted. But one thing was certain: the war was off. But the echoes of that moment kept bouncing around the world hours, even a day afterwards.

And coincidentally, almost as a byproduct of it all—

Erin Solstice came home.



—-



“Move, move, move! Get through that door now! Make sure it’s charged, [Mages]!”

“Stop yelling! Stop yelling! And stop poking me!”

The Wandering Inn’s doorway was full of bodies. Then, shouting. And then a young woman came hurtling through the door. Erin Solstice found herself stumbling out of Pallass and into an unfamiliar hallway. She turned and saw Olesm nearly fly through after her. Relc came after, prodded by a sea of spears. And then Bird.

The Antinium wasn’t being poked, but the [Soldiers] were cajoling him to move as they bellowed threats, orders, and pointed. The Antinium walked through the door and Erin saw he was carrying a wing.

Or—part of one. The Antinium was trying to gnaw at the meaty portion of the wing he’d somehow managed to sever from a Wyvern. He also appeared to be largely unconcerned as he walked into the inn.

“Thank you. May I have more of the big birds later? Please and th—”

The door slammed shut. Erin Solstice stared at the door, and then around. Relc, Olesm, Bird—the adventurers from Pallass hadn’t been included, but all four of Liscor’s residents had been herded into the door at incredible speed. Per Chaldion’s order.

“Wow.”

That was all Erin said. Her knees were still weak. She looked around. This was—a hallway? It felt funky to her. Off, somehow. Why were there little narrow windows in the walls? And what was up with—she felt the holes in the ceiling. And someone had made a hollow space under the floorboards, there!

What was up with this place? But also—Erin felt a sudden, incredible connection. Because it was new to her, but she had felt it being built.

It was her inn. And she was back home. Erin Solstice looked around. Relc stared at Erin, and then Bird. Olesm got up from where he’d been thrown.

“Ancestors. We’re alive. It was nearly—I think I saw the Third Antinium Wars. And my entire life flash before my eyes. I—I’ve played a bit too much chess. I should have been studying.”

“There’s no such thing.”

Erin muttered. She looked at Relc. The Drake was blinking.

“Um. Hey. You.”

“Hey, Relc. You came through the door?”

“Well, you know. I love a good fight. That giant Wyvern was tough, though. Even my [Relc Punch] didn’t work on it. But hey, maybe I’ll level—”

Erin heard a sound. And when one of the hidden side doors slid open, she was surprised and not. But the little white figure that tackled Erin in the stomach was a surprise.

“Oof!”

Erin fell over, winded. And not in a laughing, great-to-see-you, happy way. Mrsha had gotten heavier and stronger than Erin remembered! And she’d done a perfect flying head butt to Erin’s stomach.

“M—M—I can’t breathe.”

“Mrsha! No, come back here! It might be—”

Lyonette appeared in the doorway. Erin saw the other side door opening. Then the one down the hallway. People flooded into the entryway. Familiar faces. Krshia, Zevara, Pawn, Montressa—so many, all shouting at once! And Mrsha was hugging Erin and licking her face anxiously. Erin was still trying to breathe.

“Sergeant Relc! Report! What the hell happened?”

“Erin! We were watching, but then the image vanished! Is it—”

Zevara and Selys. Relc was shouting, trying to lift Mrsha as she clung to Erin.

“Bird! You were not supposed to go through! Why did you leave? Erin? Where is Erin?”

“Erin? There she is. Back off her! Everyone—Mrsha, stop hugging her. She cannot breathe, yes—”

Pawn and Krshia. Erin struggled to lift Mrsha. She was bigger! And hugging Erin, which was great. Strangling her, which was not. She felt Olesm tugging at her until someone bowled him over.

“It was you. I knew it! Every time! Even in Pallass! Well, this is enough. There will be laws—”

“Excuse me. Excuse me. I have to talk with Erin. Erin, it is great to see you—”

Lism and Palt. Jostling each other to shout at Erin. And they were just six of the voices amid the shouting. Erin looked around, wide-eyed. And then she heard a shout.

“Everyone, be silent!”

Lyonette put her foot down and the inn paused. It wasn’t just her words. But Erin felt the familiar tingling in the air. She looked at Lyonette. The [Princess]’s aura hit everyone in the inn, silencing all but a few voices.

Such as Relc.

“So there I was, right? I punched that bastard in the side, but he’s tough. Anyways, I was pretty sure I drove him off all by myself. I got three Wyverns—with a bit of help—”

“Sergeant Relc, shut up!”

Watch Captain Zevara barked. And Erin felt the same authority radiating from her. The young woman’s jaw dropped, but it was unmistakable. Lyonette and Zevara traded glances, but they were in synchronization, not opposition.

Faced with two presences demanding silence, the entire inn went still. Erin could move, but only because it was her inn. Experimentally, she pushed. She felt like she could beat both pressures on her and the room, if she really tried. But this was her place. And no one else could, surely.

Not even Relc. He looked around, blinked, and fell silent. Erin looked around. Everyone stared at her now. Erin Solstice opened her mouth.

“Um—so…I can exp—”

A figure pushed through the crowd. Erin spotted a single Antinium moving, ignoring the dual authorities of Zevara and Lyonette. Erin saw Klbkch, pushing past two very odd Antinium…Soldiers? He shoved aside a Minotauress, walked past the other Antinium.

Senior Guardsman Klbkch walked straight up to Bird. The Antinium was shaking. He looked at Erin. Then at Bird.

“Bird.”

His voice—freed Bird. Or maybe Lyonette and Zevara did. The [Bird Hunter] stopped chewing on his bit of Wyvern.

“Hello, Klbkch.”

“You went into Pallass.”

Erin looked at Klbkch. She looked at Bird. Everyone did. The Antinium who had nearly started the Third Antinium War nodded absently.

“Yes. That was fun. Yay. But I left all the big birds in Pallass. May I go back and get them later? They will be very nice and squishy soon. And I found Miss Erin. I—”

Erin barely saw Klbkch’s arm move. The Antinium’s right hand blurred and then he struck Bird with a downwards blow across the head. Erin saw Bird’s head jerk downwards and she heard a crack. The Worker’s carapace along the top of his head had broken from the impact.

“Bird!”

The shout came from more than one voice. Erin saw Bird stumble and drop his Wyvern wing. He reached for it.

“Ow. Revalantor Klbkch, why did you—”

“Be. Silent.”

Klbkch struck Bird again. Erin saw Bird cover his head with all four arms and crouch. Klbkch’s voice was thunderous.

“You are a fool. And you have disobeyed orders. You will not do so again.”

He raised his hand. Shock left Erin.

“Klbkch!”

Erin swung at Klbkch. He stopped striking at Bird and leaned back, effortlessly dodging Erin’s fist. She swung again and he knocked away her arm without even looking at her. He raised a fist as Bird shrank down—

And Relc smacked Klbkch. Erin saw a blur, saw Klbkch stumble and whirl. The two Senior Guardsmen stared at each other.

“Whoops. Sorry. I meant to hit you harder.”

Relc made a fist. Klbkch stared at him.

“Stay out of this. Relc. I am disciplining this—this krxsching, worthless thing for nearly starting a war.”

He turned and raised a first. This time Erin grabbed for Klbkch’s wrist. She missed. He was fast in his new body. Faster than she’d ever remembered. Klbkch stared at Erin.

“Get out of the way, Erin.”

“No. Stop hitting Bird!”

“He nearly started a war.”

“I just wanted to shoot the big birds.”

“Guardsman Klbkch, stand down!”

Zevara barked, but Klbkch ignored her. He was staring at Bird. Shaking with wrath. Erin saw Ishkr and Beza both standing behind Klbkch reaching for the Antinium and clearly deciding not to.

“Revalantor Klbkch!”

Pawn and the other Antinium surged forwards. They tried to block Bird, but they too stayed back from Klbkch. He was staring at them. Yellow Splatters walked in front of him. The other Antinium were tense. But Klbkch had one hand on his swords.

“Move. This is an order.”

“Revalantor—”

Erin saw the two strange Antinium staring at Klbkch, Pawn, Belgrade, Yellow Splatters and the other disobedient Antinium. Klbkch looked straight past them. At Bird. Erin hadn’t seen that look in his eyes. And she remembered.

They called him Klbkch the Slayer. It was that Antinium who was looking at her now. Not Senior Guardsman Klbkch, or Revalantor Klbkch.

Erin put out her arms, shielding Bird from Klbkch’s wrath. She saw Relc raise a fist—and hesitate as Klbkch looked at him. The Antinium’s hands were hovering over his hilts and Klbkch looked angrier than Erin had ever seen him.

“I know that! But hitting Bird is not the answer! Stop it or so help me, Klbkch, I will make you regret it!”

Erin clenched her fists. Klbkch hesitated. He stared at Erin for a long minute, and then whirled. He stalked past Relc, and the crowd parted before him instantly. He stopped at the door to Erin’s inn. Not the magical one. Klbkch looked over his shoulder. Straight at Erin and Bird.

“Antinium. Return to the Hive. Without Bird. If he enters Pallass again, I will kill him.”

Erin Solstice stared at Klbkch. Her oldest customer turned. The door opened and slammed shut. Wordlessly, Erin looked around. She looked at Bird as he rocked back and forth, covering his head. A trail of green blood ran from the spots where Klbkch had hit him.

It was like that, she remembered. Surprise. A normal day, where you expected everything to go one way. And then—in a moment—everything changed. She looked around the inn.

And nothing was quite the same ever again.



—-



It took a minute after Klbkch had left for the babble to start up again. But when it did, it was focused. The moment of Klbkch’s rage had focused everyone.

“I can’t believe he did that.”

Erin stared at Bird. She fumbled for a healing potion.

“Here. Erin, we must leave. Yellow Splatters, form up the Antinium.”

Pawn looked at Erin, handing out a bottle. She took it. He was not surprised. Pawn opened his hands and nearly reached for Bird for some reason.

“[Minor—]. No. Use the potion, Erin.”

He looked around. The Antinium were already marching out the door, silently. Erin saw the two strange Antinium leaving too. They weren’t the only ones. Zevara started.

“I’ve never seen Klbkch—is that his idea of discipline? Ancestors.”

Then she looked at Erin. Her eyes widened.

“Ancestors. Ancestors. I have to get back to Liscor. The other cities must be in an uproar. I—”

She stared at the door. Then at the [Innkeeper] again. Erin checked Bird, kneeling to inspect his head.

“Are you okay, Bird?”

“I am all better.”

Erin looked up at the Watch Captain.

“It wasn’t my fault. I think. Well, maybe Bird was. But—”

She tried lamely to explain. Zevara just shook her head.

“Tell me later. Miss Solstice, keep the—keep Bird out of Pallass. I need to—Sergeant Relc, on me!”

“Yeah.”

Relc murmured, staring out the door Klbkch had left from. He went over to the magic door and set it to Liscor, pulled it open. That made some of the others move as well. Lism hurried out of the crowd. Erin stared at him as he brushed past her. The Drake’s head turned and he snapped.

“The Council needs to convene at once. The other cities will need our input. Watch Captain, Olesm, we’re meeting at once. Let’s go!”

“Elirr.”

Krshia appeared with the other Gnoll. Both looked at Erin. Krshia half-smiled.

“Erin. We must talk later—”

They vanished through the door. More Gnolls and Drakes hurried after them, some to shout about what they’d seen. The inn was depopulating fast. Some people stayed, wanting to talk to Erin, but she focused—

[Crowd Control]. And [Inn’s Aura]. They stayed back, murmuring amongst themselves. Erin looked around as familiar faces appeared. A Hobgoblin pushed towards Erin. The little Gnoll cub was still there. Mrsha had hid behind Erin. Now, Lyonette swept her up.

A bee floated past Erin. She looked at them, and then at Bird. He was crouched, eating his Wyvern wing. Erin looked at her family in the other world. Lyonette was wide-eyed, holding Mrsha. It was Numbtongue who eyed the door by which Klbkch had left. Then he looked at Erin. The Hobgoblin was least surprised out of anyone in the room by the previous moments. He shrugged and then grinned.

“Wyverns. Lots of Wyverns. Hard to beat, even for Redfangs. Cold ones are even harder. It was a nice fight.”

He held out a hand. Erin took it. The Hobgoblin [Bard] effortlessly pulled her up. Now, Mrsha squirmed and waved her paws. Erin went over to her.

“Oh, Mrsha.”

She gave the little Gnoll a huge hug, squeezing her tight. Erin felt someone else hug her. Lyonette. Numbtongue was inspecting Bird’s head. Erin looked around.

“It’s never quiet with me around, is it? Sorry.”

The [Princess] almost laughed.

“For what? I was so worried. We all were. What was that with Klbkch? He was—Pawn said he’s not like we know him in the Hive. But I never thought—”

She caught herself. And so did Erin. The [Innkeeper] looked at the others. And she realized this was the moment. Erin let go. She stood in her inn, and inhaled. Her inn.

It was strange and unfamiliar. But home. And she saw faces she knew. Erin smiled as Bird stood up. She looked around and breathed out. There was a way to do it, after all.

“Hey Lyonette. Numbtongue. Mrsha. I’m back.”

They looked at her. And then Lyonette smiled.

“Hi. Did you have a good holiday, Erin?”

The young woman hesitated. She looked around her inn and shrugged. It was a Goblin’s shrug, which meant everything. Numbtongue grinned. Mrsha wagged her tail. Erin Solstice scratched the back of her head.

“Eh, it was okay. Sort of boring. Right up until the end.”



—-



After all was said and done, Erin found herself eating a sandwich. Grilled cheese. With a bit of ham in the middle with the cheese. A nice, sharp cheese too. Erin hadn’t realized she’d needed food, but Lyonette had learned from her.

Food was a comfort thing. And Erin hadn’t eaten since…this morning. Between Pelt and prison and Wyvern attacks, she’d missed out on food—even in Tails and Scales! Erin’s breakfast of grilled fish was a long way away, and Erin found herself scarfing down the food.

“Here. A drink. Good job, Mrsha!”

Mrsha brought over the glass of goat’s milk, not spilling a drop. Erin drank gratefully. People were still in her inn—she noticed a familiar trio of [Mages], a Human, a Centaur, and a Minotauress, as well as her staff, a number of guests, and a few unfamiliar new ones, but no one was coming over.

They all were willing to gossip or debate the incident in Pallass, and Erin was keeping them away, whether they knew it or not. It was Numbtongue, Mrsha, Drassi, Ishkr, and Bird and Apista who could get close. And Lyonette, of course. The [Princess] had brought out the sandwich after heating it up and she was directing the staff flawlessly.

“Lykr, before the tables are cleared up, check for coins. Anyone who hasn’t paid—make a list! You have [Server’s Memory]—you do the list, everyone else clear only the tables Lykr’s done with! I need Ississi in the kitchen for dishes…”

“Who’s Ississi?”

Erin looked around vaguely. She saw a Drake with cream-colored scales trotting into the kitchen. Erin blinked at her.

“Do I know her?”

“She’s a [Dishwasher Cleaner]. Specific class, I know. But she’s good at her job. I hired her and she can clear the inn’s dirty dishes faster than anyone else. And clean the floors almost as well.”

Erin blinked. She saw Lykr, the Gnoll with striped black and chestnut fur walking over to the tables.

“And him? Do I know him? I do, right?”

“Yup. Lykr gained a new Skill.”

Lyonette nodded. Erin knew all of the staff’s names, but no one as well as Drassi and Ishkr. And Drassi hurried back through the double doors leading to the trapped-out hallway at that very moment.

“Lyonette! Erin! Okay, word on the street is that Pallass sent an all-clear. Which is putting most of the city in a panic because they didn’t have scrying orbs! Word’s spreading—it’s chaos out there! I have to get out there and share what happened!”

“Later. Anything else from Pallass, Drassi? What about us? Bird?”

The [Gossip] came over to the table as Lyonette shook her head. The [Gossip] shrugged.

“The Watch House is full of [Guards], but all they told me is that Zevara’s sending [Messages] like crazy and the Council is too. They’re trying to make sense of it all, but Zevara isn’t sending [Guards] to arrest anyone. She said that’s the last thing they need, apparently.”

“So no one’s in trouble?”

Erin looked at Lyonette and the others anxiously. Numbtongue shrugged, watching Beza, Montressa, and Palt out of the corner of his eye. He strummed idly on his guitar. Drassi shrugged helplessly.

“I don’t think so. No one’s screaming for it as far as I can tell, and I went to the Mage’s Guild. I mean—Bird did help out during the battle. And threatened war. But the other cities might be blaming Liscor. Or the Hive.”

“No one’s going to arrest anyone. I think. If I know the way the other cities are thinking—they won’t try to arrest you or Bird through Liscor, Erin. They were spooked by the thought of the Third Antinium War. They’ll assess. If they do move, we have a few days.”

“And what if the Council or Zevara decides to arrest everyone in the inn?”

That came from Ishkr. The Gnoll looked uncharacteristically worried. His fur was still standing up on end. Everyone at their table turned to stare at the Antinium sitting by himself at another table.

Bird was recovered from Klbkch’s attack. In fact, he was still happily trying to eat the extraordinarily tough Wyvern wing. And winning. Erin looked at Bird and Lyonette exhaled slowly.

“If they’re coming, it’s not for a few hours, I bet. And what will they say? It was Bird who went through. Erin didn’t order him to. I think it’ll be a reprimand.”

“And if it’s not?”

Erin remembered Lism was on the Council. But she was also thinking about Klbkch. He had been—she felt a nudge and looked over. Numbtongue grinned down at her. The Hobgoblin nodded at the doors leading to the entryway.

“Let them. We can fight. Antinium built a nice hallway. Full of traps.”

Erin blinked. She looked at Lyonette.

“Yeah, what is that about? What are those—slits in the wall? And the holes in the ceiling? And the hollow space under the floorboards?”

“You noticed those?”

Lyonette started. She looked at Erin and shook her head.

“Of course you did. It’s your inn. That’s a trapdoor Belgrade installed. I had him design parts of the inn. He went overboard with the entryway. Those are arrow slits, murder holes—the walls are three times as thick, so I doubt even Moore could smash through, and the two sliding doors are equally tough. If we think there’s an attack or any chance of one, we can close the side doors and someone will have to come down the hallway.”

“And the trap door?”

“I told Belgrade not to make one, but he seems to think you’re the Queen and that there’s no need for an escape route if there are enough traps. He wanted to engineer part of the inn to collapse if need be, and he wanted to fill the pit with blades. Or water. He also wanted a hallway eight times as long—”

“Good idea. Also—more potions. Octavia made them. Very nice.”

Numbtongue was nodding. Lyonette sighed.

“Numbtongue’s also hidden potions and other things Octavia’s made all over the inn. And he wants crossbows.”

“Very nice. For shooting. Everyone gets one. Point and click!”

The Hobgoblin grinned. Erin stared at him. She felt it. Her inn was a fortress now.

“The walls are twice as thick as they used to be everwhere else!”

“And the foundations are made of stone. The inn’s only partly finished; it took the Antinium a long time to do it, but it will have multiple floors—and a postern door. I don’t care what Belgrade says—we can make it lock from the inside.”

“A what door?”

“Secret door.”

Numbtongue nodded. Mrsha nodded too. The Gnoll cub was happily waving her wand, sitting next to Erin. The [Innkeeper] stared at Lyonette.

“How did we pay—”

“Liscor paid us for the inn. We got money from the Creler attack, you have money saved up even with taxes—but I’m counting on some good business to finish funding the inn. I’ve even got plans for other wings, but we’re finishing up the guest rooms. I’m hoping we can have more Gold-rank teams here.”

Erin slowly gulped down her milk. Her mind was spinning. Lyonette looked at her.

“Now, tell us about the battle.”

“What? Oh—that was—I stayed out of the fighting. I didn’t expect Bird to be there. And it wasn’t my fault! I think. But I stayed out of trouble. Completely.”

“We saw you.”

Lyonette stared at the young woman. Erin faltered.

“Oh?”

“Saw the fighting. Nice flaming things. And knife.”

The [Bard] nodded at Erin. The [Innkeeper] slapped a hand to her forehead.

“Aw. I lost the knife Pelt gave me. I’m gonna have to see if someone found it.”

“Erin.”

The [Princess] and the [Innkeeper] traded looks. Erin paused and sighed.

“Well, I had to do something. And I was safe. Rufelt and Lasica were the insane ones, believe it or not. Did you know? I think Lasica’s pregnant—”

“What?”

Lyonette stared at Erin. But then she shook her head.

“But Erin. What do we do now? About…”

She nodded covertly. Everyone turned their heads. They all stared at Bird. Erin’s stomach fell.

“I don’t know. It wasn’t that…”

She couldn’t even finish the lie. Mrsha looked up worriedly at Erin. The young woman hugged her with one arm.

“It’ll be alright. Olesm and the Council and Zevara—we’ll deal with whatever happened. We can explain.”

“Or not. But that’s not what I’m talking about, Erin. It’s not the consequences for us. It’s about him.”

“Oh. But—”



—-



Bird was happy. He sat in his chair, eating the wing of the big bird. He kept thinking that if it was the right wing, maybe he’d grow them too. He’d seen the Flying Antinium. Pivr. So Bird knew it was possible.

He was happy. He had been hit! But healed. Klbkch was very angry, but Bird was not dead. So that was a win. The Worker was wondering about all the big birds in Pallass. He’d wanted to pick them up somehow, but they’d told him to go, and so had Erin. But maybe, tonight, when no one was looking…

The [Hunter] looked up as Lyonette and Erin walked over. They were looking grave, but Bird was happy. He waved three of his hands at them. It was nice to have hands again.

“Bird.”

“That is me. Hello. I am glad you are done with your break, Miss Erin. And I shot many big birds. Did you see me?”

The shorter of the two young women hesitated. Lyonette was a bit taller than Erin, for all she was two years younger. Erin shot a quick look at Lyonette and then nodded slowly.

“Yes we did. Bird—are you hurt?”

She indicated Bird’s head. The Worker felt at it.

“My head is not hurting much. And I stopped bleeding. See? It is not bad at all.”

Erin had even wiped away the blood. The [Innkeeper] nodded, relieved. She looked at Lyonette. The [Princess] nudged her. They gave each other a look that Bird ignored—he was trying to figure out how to bite off more of the Wyvern’s wing. Erin sighed.

“Bird, we need to talk. Um. Let’s go to your room, okay?”

“Yes, Erin.”

Bird stood up obediently. He began to trundle over to the stairs. The newly-built inn had two stairwells on opposite ends that would lead up to the second floor. Right now, only a third of the second floor was done, though, so one stairwell was blocked off. Erin stopped Bird.

“You have to leave the…wing, Bird.”

The Worker started. He looked down at the half-eaten Wyvern wing.

“But it is mine. I must imbibe nutrients.”

“Just leave it, Bird. We need to talk.”

Lyonette’s voice was more severe. Bird knew that tone. It was the tone she used when he climbed up on the roof without a railing, or brought in birds he’d left outside to get squishy and full of worms. Bird hesitated.

“But it is my wing.”

“Bird—please put it down and come upstairs.”

“But—”

“Now, Bird.”

The Antinium stopped. He looked at Lyonette. Slowly, gently, he put the wing on the table and patted it with his two other hands. He turned and went up the stairs. The two young women followed him.

Bird had a room. It was not the same room as his old one. But it was nice. Bigger. And Lyonette had helped him make his Fortress of Fluff again. It was a small cave of pillows and blankets Bird could sit in. The Antinium Workers could not sleep on their backs due to the rounded shell—maybe Soldiers could since they were built differently, but Bird was used to sit-sleeping. Only now, instead of packed dirt, he had softness.

His Fortress of Fluff was the thing of envy of all the others. Pawn had helped make some in the barracks, but the other Antinium had to share it. Bird’s was his alone.

He also had other things in his room. Some of his feathers had been destroyed when the inn fell down. Bird had been very sad, but he still had Bevussa’s feather. And he had many more, in his Fortress of Fluff and around the room.

He also had a few dead birds. They weren’t rotting any more since they were in the inn, but Bird hurried into the room and tossed them out the window before Lyonette could be angry. Angrier. Neither one was shouting, but Bird hurried around his room, checking for wriggling worms. His room was very clean. He had everything in piles.

“Wow. They are bigger. And you want the second floor to be as big as the first?”

“That’s right. We’ll have guest rooms. And regular guests, not just your friends, Erin. That’s how inns make money. And stables.”

“Stables? Like, with horses?”

“Yes, Erin. With horses. Its customary for an inn. How do you not know this?”

“Well, the old inn didn’t have one.”

“It probably rotted away. Or it was too dangerous with the Shield Spider nests and hills and valleys. But we’ll have a proper road and we’re close enough to Liscor. Stables—and the new door to Liscor is going to go right next to the Adventurer’s Guild and the Mage’s Guild. Same street.”

“Wait. They moved the Adventurer’s Guild? When?”

“When you were on break. There’s all kinds of changes. They’re building new parts of the city—I’ll tell you more tomorrow. For now—”

Bird’s door opened. The two young women walked in. Lyonette glanced around the inn and Bird hoped she did not see the wriggling worm in the corner he’d just spotted. She frowned at Bird. Then she nudged Erin.

“You do it.”

“But—”

“Erin.”

“Okay, okay.”

The two Humans whispered to each other. Bird looked from one to the other. Erin came over. She looked around.

“Sit down, Bird. Let’s all sit.”

“May I sit in my Fortress of Fluff, please?”

Erin smiled, and then lost it.

“Yeah. There’s a chair there—”

“I’ll stand.”

Lyonette watched as the two sat down. Erin dragged the chair over to Bird’s fortress as he sat down in it. Bird looked from face to face.

“May I get my wing, please? I would like to eat it.”

“Later, Bird. We need to talk.”

“About what?”

The Worker’s eyes were innocent as he looked at Erin’s face. She hesitated. Bit her lip. Lyonette nudged her. Erin sighed.

“Did you know you’re not supposed to go to Pallass, Bird? I remember Klbkch ordering Pawn and the others not to go through. You heard him, right? And you know how Pallass feels about Antinium.”

“But there were big birds in Pallass. I saw them. And I was helping.”

Bird pointed towards his window. Erin nodded.

“I know. And you did help, Bird.”

“I shot many big birds. Through the eyes. They have very thick skins. The biggest bird did not die. I think it might be a super bird. Like the super man you told us about.”

Erin stifled a snort. Lyonette’s face didn’t change. Erin told Bird and Mrsha and Numbtongue and sometimes Lyonette many stories about her home. It was Bird’s dream to meet the bat man. Or the hawk man. Or an airplane. Well, one of his dreams.

The [Innkeeper] had schooled her face back to seriousness. She was biting one lip. She looked at Bird, meeting his eyes.

“Bird. You knew it would be trouble to go into Pallass. Didn’t you?”

Bird—paused. He didn’t meet Erin’s gaze. Bird shuffled his feet as he sat in the chair.

“I only wanted to eat big birds. I was helping.”

A pause. Erin looked at Bird. He was pretending to be very interested in the lining of his Fortress of Fluff. It was a familiar look. She’d seen Mrsha do the exact same thing. Erin felt Lyonette nudge her again. Erin glared at Lyonette, but she went on.

“Bird, I know you wanted to help. And you did. But you caused a lot of trouble. A lot. Klbkch shouldn’t have hit you, but you are in trouble.”

“Will he kill me?”

“No! But you can’t go to Pallass. Understand, Bird? Never.”

“But what if—”

“Never, Bird. Do you understand? Klbkch was being serious.”

Lyonette leaned forwards. Bird looked up at her.

“Yes, Miss Lyonette.”

Erin looked at Lyonette. The [Princess] nodded back at her. Erin turned to Bird. He was looking at her.

“I will never go to Pallass. May I go now?”

“No, Bird. There’s one more thing. Hitting you was wrong. Klbkch was wrong to do that. You know that, right?”

“Yes.”

Bird sounded like he was saying it just so Erin would be happy. She really didn’t know how far she was getting to him. Erin took a breath.

“But you also did something wrong that caused a lot of trouble. And you knew you weren’t supposed to. Didn’t you, Bird?”

No response. Erin wavered.

“So—so you’re going to be punished. Do you understand?”

Bird’s head snapped up and looked at her. And then he began to shake. No—quiver. The Antinium rocked back and forth, disturbing his fortress. His voice shook as he shrank back from the two young women.

“Am I going to be destroyed? Am I Aberration? Will the Free Queen kill me?”

It was everything Erin had feared. She looked at Lyonette and waved her arms quickly.

“No! No, Bird. We’d never do that.”

“No, never.”

Lyonette shook her head. Bird stopped quivering. He relaxed at once.

“Oh. Then what is my punishment?”

Erin wiped her brow. But here came the hard part. She looked at Bird. Lyonette had insisted and Erin had to admit, it was the only thing that would work. They had to make Bird understand. The [Innkeeper] hesitated—but Lyonette had insisted she deliver the news.

“You—you’re forbidden from hunting birds, Bird. For—for an entire week. And you…don’t get to eat birds either? Not even eggs.”

Erin glanced uncertainly at Lyonette. The [Princess] nodded.

“For an entire week. No birds. And if you lie or try to hunt them or eat them, it will be longer, Bird.”

She folded her arms and looked severely down at Bird. The Worker’s head swung from Erin to Lyonette. He stared at them. And Erin saw his mandibles open wide and droop. The Worker shook. Then he shouted.

“No!”

“Bird, listen. We don’t want to make you upset, but you know—”

“No! I do not want this!”

Bird shouted for the first time, in actual distress. Erin tried to talk over him. Lyonette raised one finger.

“Bird, it’s only for one week. And listen—you caused an awful lot of—”

“Bird, be quiet and listen to us—”

The Worker ignored both of them. He flailed his four arms and began to kick the air. The Fortress of Fluff fell down around him.

“Waaah! Waaah! Waaah! Waaah! Wah. Waaaaaaaaah! Waaah!”

“Bird—”

Erin stared at him. Was he—crying? The Antinium could not cry. But Bird was imitating a wailing baby. Well, he was shouting the word ‘wah’. But it was similar. Erin looked helplessly at Lyonette. The [Princess] was staring at Bird.

“Waaah! Waaah! Wah! Waaaaaaaah! I am crying! Is it working?”

Lyonette was opening her mouth. Erin felt the [Princess]’ aura gathering. But—Erin looked at Bird. She thought of the blue flame she could conjure. She put out a hand and Lyonette looked at her. Erin took a deep breath as Bird kept shout-crying. She focused.

“Bird! Be quiet!”

The air—went still. It wasn’t pressure so much as weight. Erin focused. And below, for an instant, her guests looked around, feeling a huge—weight on their shoulders. Not pressure—Erin remembered making her inn shake with force. But this was different.

She concentrated. The area of effect narrowed, until it was only the room. She felt Lyonette pushing back. Erin focused on Bird. The Worker’s flailing slowed. He wasn’t being crushed. She was just…weighing him down.

Focus. Erin wanted him to be serious. She didn’t lean. It was an odd sensation in her mind. Unlike any other sense Erin had ever employed. She couldn’t explain it, but she’d done it before. Now, doing it intentionally, Erin felt fatigued. But that was enough. Erin released the weight.

Then she put both her hands on Bird’s shoulders. And he stilled, looking at her. Erin spoke slowly, looking into Bird’s multifaceted eyes.

“Listen to me, Bird. I know you’re not happy. And young. And I know you like birds and you’re…Bird.”

He opened his mandibles. Erin raised a finger and he went still. Not because of her aura. Just because of her look. Erin stared at him.

Like fire.

“You’re Bird. And you can be silly and wonderful and…young. But I remember when you first came to the inn. You can be serious. You’re smart, Bird. Smarter than anyone thinks because you pretend. Or you—you can be serious. You know you did something bad. And this is punishment. It’s fair. You do understand it, don’t you, Bird?”

He looked at her. Erin waited. He remembered it too. She saw the shaking Aberration in her inn. Heard the distant horns blaring from Liscor. The undead.

“I am Knight.”

The Antinium looked at her. Naming himself. They all did. Her chess club, those brave Workers. Erin still remembered them. The ones who had never had a chance. Named after the legends of chess in her world. Knight, Milner-Barry, Calabrian—

He had been there. Before he was Bird. And the little Worker, bigger than Erin, but little, slowly nodded. And his voice grew…sharper.

“I understand. I do not like it, but I understand.”

No less Bird. But he paused. His tantrum ceased. It wasn’t a child who sat there, looking at Erin and Lyonette. Antinium were never children. This one had found his childhood, but he was still—

Bird. The Worker paused. He bowed his head.

“I am sorry for causing trouble, Erin, Miss Lyonette. I did not mean to. I just wanted to hunt the Wyverns. I will be punished and obey.”

Erin Solstice sat back. She heard Lyonette sigh in relief. Erin looked at Bird.

“Good. You know you can’t go to Pallass, Bird?”

“Yes. I am very sorry.”

Bird bowed his head lower. Lyonette nodded.

“Just—don’t do it again, okay, Bird?”

“Yes.”

The Worker kept nodding. Erin and Lyonette rose. Bird looked up.

“Am I forgiven?”

“Yes. And I’m really sorry Klbkch hit you.”

Erin hugged Bird. He smiled, relieved. Then he paused.

“May I hunt birds tomorrow?”

Erin’s smile vanished. She stared at Bird.

“No.”

“In three days?”

“No, Bird. No birds for a week.”

“…In six days?”

There he was again, Bird and serious Bird. Erin stood up. What would her mother have said? Erin should have thought of that from the beginning. She pointed sternly at Bird.

“No arguing, young miss…ter! Or it’ll be even longer!”

Bird clapped all four hands over his mandibles in horror.

“I will not argue! Do not make it longer, please!”

“Well—well, just you think about what you’ve done! You can help build your tower, or play chess—but no hunting or eating Birds!”

“Yes. And—and we love you, but that’s final!”

Lyonette and Erin looked at each other. They exited the room before they could make any more mistakes. They shut the door, leaned against it, and listened. For a second there was only silence. Erin was afraid Bird would start crying, but after a moment, she heard a sing-song voice, warbling from within.

“Now I am sad. Because I have been bad. This is my bad bird song, which is all I can do because I cannot eat birds. Which is sad.”

Erin and Lyonette nodded to each other. They hurried down the hallway, and then downstairs, and then they high-fived in relief. They’d done it. Erin was no parent, but she did have a family. She wondered if she’d ever been like that.

Probably n—Erin caught herself. Definitely. And Bird was reasonable. More than a child. She sighed in relief.

In his room, Bird kept singing. He was gloomy. He was being punished. No birds! But he had done a bad thing. He was not dead, too, and Erin had not thrown him out of the inn so the Free Queen could tear Bird apart and make True Antinium maybe.

So…victory?

“Yay.”

Bird threw up his four arms. He stared around. If not Birds, then what?

The maggot wriggled in the corner of the room. Bird stared at it. He could build his tower. But an entire week. It was almost as bad as if Klbkch had broken open Bird’s head. Almost.

“So sad. Because I was bad.”

The Worker wandered over to the maggot. Maybe—his Level 8 [Tactician] class told Bird something. Maybe he could feed birds. For an entire week? Yes! And they would fly around him and he would not be eating or hunting them. Bird trundled over to the window and put the maggot just outside the window. Yes. He would earn the birds’ trust.

This was a good plan. Bird heard the door open and jumped.

“I was not hunting!”

He shut the window quickly. But it was not Lyonette or Erin. Instead, Bird saw a green figure with glowing, crimson eyes.

“Oh. Numbtongue.”

The Hobgoblin [Bard] nodded to Bird. He sidled into the room, carefully looking down the hallway for the two young Human women.

“Bird.”

“I am in trouble and being punished. I cannot hunt or eat birds. I am sad. But I did a bad thing.”

Bird announced. The [Bard] shrugged. He was carrying something behind him. Bird saw him wander over to the chair. The Hobgoblin smiled.

“Saw the fighting. Good shooting.”

He sounded approving. Bird tilted his head.

“I shot many birds.”

The Goblin nodded. He and Bird hadn’t talked—much. But they had lived in the same inn for a while, after Bird had recovered. Numbtongue had even apologized for the sword and Greydath, but it had not been his fault. Bird had said sorry that all Numbtongue’s friends were dead.

Now, though, Numbtongue just stood in Bird’s room. The Worker stared back. At last, the [Bard] nodded again.

“Stood in Pallass. Made lots of others upset.”

“Yes. But it was not war.”

Bird realized that might be why Erin and Lyonette were upset. But Ksmvr had assured Bird it was a good bluff. It had worked. Therefore, statistically, it had a 100% success rate. Among three cases. Even so, Bird was vaguely aware that might have been a bad thing.

But the Hobgoblin didn’t seem to mind. He was smiling.

“Antinium stood in Pallass. First time. Like a Goblin in Liscor.”

“Yes. It makes people very upset.”

Bird looked at Numbtongue. The Goblin grinned. Two members of a species who were banned from civilization looked at each other. And then Numbtongue pulled his arms out from behind his back.

He showed Bird what he had in his claws. The Antinium stared and his mandibles opened. Numbtongue had a bottle of Firebreath Whiskey—and Bird’s Wyvern snack, both confiscated from downstairs when no one was watching.

“But that is forbidden.”

“Secret.”

The Hobgoblin grinned. He pulled the chair over to the door and wedged it under the handle. Then he sat down. Bird sat too. Numbtongue gave him the wing. Bird stared at it, and then at Numbtongue.

“You are a good Goblin.”

“Redfang.”

Numbtongue tapped his chest. Bird tapped it too, gently. Numbtongue laughed. He held out a fist to bump. Bird hesitated. Then bumped fists as the Hobgoblin grinned and produced two cups to drink from.

“I like you very much, Numbtongue.”

The Hobgoblin grinned and laughed. And the two of them found they were friends.



—-



Below, Erin Solstice didn’t notice the wing vanishing. Her head was spinning. Now that Bird was…reprimanded, she found other people coming over to her. Her Skill had ended, and they wanted to talk to her.

She wanted to talk to them! Erin saw familiar faces. No Horns. No Ceria or Pisces or Yvlon or Ksmvr—that hurt. But she had seen them off, two weeks ago. And there were so many people she did know.

And so much to say! Erin found herself telling people about her new Skill—and Pelt—the parts that wouldn’t embarrass the Dwarf—and the attack—in between hearing what had happened in Liscor.

“Wait. The new city’s being built? Humans? More Humans than just me? Where? You’re living in Liscor! No way!”

Erin’s jaw dropped as a family from Esthelm introduced themselves. They were staring at her like she was at them. Wide-eyed. And Selys was telling Erin she was buying land?

It was too much to take in, honestly. Erin felt like she was swimming through the faces and voices. She didn’t even realize how late it was until Lyonette’s voice cut through the chatter.

“Thank you, everyone! But Erin’s too tired for more! Thank you! You can all come back tomorrow! We’ll be open bright and early!”

Everyone protested. But Erin saw Lyonette herd them towards the door. She was still using her aura. When had she learned that? Erin found Mrsha pushing a cup of water into her hands. She drank. Lyonette appeared next to Erin.

“They’ll want a piece of you later. I bet the Council and Zevara and everyone else in Pallass is trying to figure out what to do, but they’re probably still weighing their options. For now—the second floor has a few rooms done. Yours was first. Here. Let’s show you. Mrsha?”

She helped Erin up. Mrsha tried to take Erin’s other side, but she was too short. So instead, she raced up the steps and opened the first door. Erin blinked at the lovely room as Drassi took Erin’s other arm. She didn’t even realize she was lying in bed for a moment.

“Hey! I’m totally awake!”

Erin called out, but it was dark. Moonlight from two moons and the stars was the only illumination in the dark room. Erin looked around. Where had everyone gone?

She was so tired. The [Innkeeper] blinked. She looked around. Well, maybe they were all tired. The young woman yawned. That pillow was suctioning her head right back down. She stared up at the ceiling. A new ceiling. A new inn. New worries.

But even so, Erin smiled. At least she was back. She was back. And that was alright. The rest could come tomorrow.

“What a day. What—”

Erin passed out before her head hit the pillow.



—-



Pallass watched the Antinium leave. And the Human. The streets still rang with the shock. An Antinium! But they were expelled, the 1st Army herding the Liscorians through the door. For a moment, they were gone, out of sight. If not out of mind.

And then—it was over. After the trials, the tribulations, and not least, the Antinium, it had ended. And while the world was left to speculate over the news, the people of Pallass who weren’t the movers or shakers or leaders or anyone of importance found themselves doing something else entirely besides worrying.

Evening bled into the night. Exhausted [Soldiers] slept. And indeed, even into the darkness people were scrambling to help [Healers], repair the worst damage. And find the wounded. It was the work of necessity that pushed other concerns to the side. Searching through the rubble of a buried house. Listening for a baby’s cries.

Heartbreaking work. And boring work. They could mix. Burying bodies. Searching for loved ones. Counting the dead. And it was familiar to Erin, but new to many of Pallass.

Yet it was the next day that brought surprises. And Pallass’ citizens, some who had had very little sleep, others who had worked through the night, rose and found themselves at work a second day.

They were doing what all people who endured disaster inevitably did. After the mourning—no, amid it—and between the emergencies and blaming, there was just…cleanup.

Cleaning. It wasn’t something people thought about. But there was masonry on the streets. Blood on the walls. Scorch marks to be removed, oh, and yes.

Wyvern corpses. Hundreds of them. Some had been hauled into warehouses filled with runes of preservation, but moving the Wyverns had been a low priority yesterday. Now, it was rising on the list.

The Wyverns stank. They were rotting—some of them—and bugs were attracted to the decomposing flesh. Ironically, the Wyverns struck by lightning or killed in non-obvious ways were in the best of shape; their bodies hadn’t begun to rot nearly as much as those cut apart.

Even so, Wyverns. Pallass saw every [Butcher], [Tanner], [Hideworker], [Armorer], [Hunter], [Trapper] and specialist in hides at work in the early morning. They were trying to remove Wyvern hides before they rotted, or salvage meat from the corpses. After all, Wyverns were money. And Pallass was the City of Invention.

Cleaning, corpse disposal—and repairs. [Engineers] and [Builders] surveyed damaged streets and houses. And it had to be said, as the Wyverns were dissected, more people saw opportunity in the monster’s corpses. Teeth could be used for arrowheads. Wyvern leather—aside from protection—might be a trendy accessory. A reminder, a mark of pride.

There was work for [Healers], tending to the wounded. Countless potential for [Laborers] who were sorely needed to help dispose of the bodies. Even for [Gravediggers]. A surplus of jobs in fact. If it weren’t for the fact that people had died, this might have been a good day for Pallass.

But people were dead. And many who walked the city had elected to tie a bit of red to some part of their body. Around their head as a sweatband, or an arm, or some other body part. Garuda, Dullahan, Drake, or Gnoll. A bit of red to show that they had lost someone, or known someone who had died in the fighting. Or that they had simply been injured.

Red, for blood. Blood for Pallass.



—-



Of course, it wasn’t all grieving. And the changes to Pallass were more than just a sudden surge in the economy in certain sectors. Yesterday, Pallass—no, the world—no, Pallass and thus, the world had witnessed the drama of the Wyvern attack. They had seen legends. And heroes.

And if that was an exaggeration, you could go to Rhir. People did not forget, at least not so soon.

So the next day, Grimalkin, the Fist Mage of Pallass opened the door to his mansion. He was covered in poultices and bandages and he looked like…if Erin had seen him, she’d have called him a mummy. Grimalkin just felt like a wounded [Soldier]. He hurt all over. The [Healers] had managed to save some of his body that had been frostbitten, but the outer layer of his scales had just peeled off like dead skin.

It was just as well his vitals weren’t affected. Nevertheless—part of Grimalkin’s body had sloughed off when he pulled at the frostbitten sections. Removing it had hurt, but Grimalkin had cut it away. No sense in delaying recovery, and now he was trying to regrow as much of his lost scales and tissue as possible.

Not just tissue either. The Sinew Magus even looked thinner as he stopped in the doorway to his home. He’d used up his muscle during the fight with the Wyvern Lord. Instead of looking like the most muscular body-builder from Erin’s world, he now looked…

Well, he was still huge. But a bit less wide. And he had a surprise waiting for him. Grimalkin blinked at the line of people outside of his door. It stretched out of sight, around a corner. He stared at the group of Garuda at the front of the line, and the pair of Gnolls, all pushing to be first.

“What is this about?”

The Drake stared at the excited Garuda. One of them—a Garuda Erin would have recognized—waved his talons at Grimalkin.

“We’re here to sign up!”

“Sign up?”

Grimalkin was a bit slow today. Not only did he hurt, he had to regain all of his lost muscle so he’d eaten a massive breakfast and he’d been determined to work out for hours today with the finest potion supplements to aid in his recovery. He stared at the Garuda, and then past them. Gnolls, Drakes—Dullahans—young and old. Mostly young, though.

“Yes! You teach apprentices, right?”

“I do. But why—”

“We saw you fighting!”

Weki pushed past Assaln excitedly. Everyone in line nodded. Grimalkin stared at him.

“You mean, the Greater Wyvern? That was an embarrassing display—”

“Not that! I mean, part of that! But we saw you! You were first on the walls! You punched through a Wyvern and tore out its heart!”

The people behind Weki were nodding. All of them stared at Grimalkin. They knew him of course. The Muscle Mage of Pallass. Grimalkin the Fist. The [Sinew Magus]. How many times had he done his demonstration? Or tried to get new apprentices? It usually only got Grimalkin a handful of students at any time. But today—

“You threw a Wyvern! And you battled that huge Wyvern! Even General Duln couldn’t keep up! Can all of your students do that!? Can you teach us to do that?”

The two excited Garuda stared up at Grimalkin. He looked at them. And finally, the surprise faded. Grimalkin looked at the lines, the line of students. Excited civilians, not military students. Just…people who wanted to learn. He drew himself up slowly.

“Well, of course. My magical sinew theory will work on anyone! I’m accepting new students. Do you—all want to join?”

“Yes!”

The exclamation came from hundreds of throats. And more were hurrying into the queue upon seeing Grimalkin’s face. The [Sinew Magus] stared. They’d surely wash out in days. Especially the two Garuda in front. But even if you had a 1%…no, even 0.1% success rate—and Grimalkin was sure he could manage at least 10%—how many gems would he find?

The Drake’s mind began to race. For the first time he looked on people motivated to seek him out. Who looked at him like…for the first time, Grimalkin began to think about setting limits on the numbers of his pupils, weeding out the best. The [Sinew Magus] smiled.



—-



Others found the new day to be a trial. Or rather, one Drake in particular. Saliss of Lights stood outside the Watch House on the 4th Floor. It was one of many, but the Drake was standing outside of this one.

Naked. Bare to his scales. Oh, and he was dancing. The [Alchemist] and Named Adventurer shook his rear, and his tail waved about on the cobblestones.

“Dance to the beat of a new day! Come on, people! Watch Captain, get loose and free!”

He hopped up and did a sideways dance left. People stared at him. Saliss was standing in the street, or rather, dancing across it, and the Watch House was located at a busy intersection on the 4th. But even after Saliss started doing high-kicks, no one stopped him.

Ordinarily, someone would have shouted for the Drake to cover up, or thrown something, or demanded the Watch lock Saliss away. At the very least, the [Guards] would have herded Saliss somewhere less public with a long-handled pole. But today, the [Guards] on duty just stared at Saliss with a kind of resigned sadness.

No one stopped the [Alchemist]. Even when he faced the Watch House and managed to invent twerking, or something close to it. None of the pedestrians shouted at the Named Adventurer either. Parents just covered their children’s eyes and hurried them along.

The hero of Pallass looked around after a few more minutes of dancing. He could see Watch Captain Qissa, who’d survived the battle, working in one window of the Watch House. She even met his eyes once. But she didn’t so much as react.

Saliss looked around. He struck a pose.

“How’re you doing today, sir?”

“Hello.”

A Dullahan walked right past Saliss with the same expression on his face. He even nodded his head at Saliss. The Drake paused. He looked around. It wasn’t exactly hero worship, but absolutely no one was giving him the stink-eye.

The Drake threw up his claws.

“This sucks. I’m going back home. I’ve got to make hundreds of potions—can’t even get arrested—what’s the world coming to? Prison’s great for focusing, but no…”

He stomped off, leaving the Watch House. He didn’t even harass anyone on the way back to his home and workshop on the 9th floor. Watch Captain Qissa, staring after Saliss inside the Watch House nearly dropped her mug of tea.

“That’s all it took?”

She shouted. But the Named Adventurer was gone.



—-



Changes in the city were one thing. But the true causality of yesterday’s events coalesced in late morning. Not on Pallass’ streets, but on the 5th Floor.

The Assembly of Crafts was based in the 5th, or at least, the senate where laws and reform and debates took place. They had a large, circular chamber where they debated, each [Senator] elected by their district.

It was a democratic system, the scorn of many other Drake cities and other nations. But it worked—even if it was far slower than regular monarchies or tyrannies. Yet, it was also stronger in other ways. You could not behead Pallass’ government in a single stroke.

Something up, something down. Grimalkin of Pallass strode down the 5th floor, towards the senate’s building. It was soundproofed, but citizens of Pallass could walk in and observe the arguments if they wished. Grimalkin passed by the [Guards] on duty, entered the building—

And turned left instead of heading towards the spectator’s seats or onto the senate floor. He was walking to another meeting room. He had been summoned.

And he was not the only one. Grimalkin passed through another layer of security. This time, a pair of [Soldiers] waved Grimalkin onwards. Into the private parts of the senate, reserved for the politicians and staff. And then—a third checkpoint.

“Name? And intent?”

“Grimalkin of Pallass. Summoned to testify.”

“Do you harbor any intent to harm or otherwise subvert those within?”

“No.”

The truth stone flashed and the [Lieutenant] nodded. Grimalkin saw the [Soldiers] relax, but only slightly. This group was the sharpest by far, and they were ready to take or stall even the [Sinew Magus]. Grimalkin saw the [Lieutenant] motion.

There were two doors in the security system, both of which had closed when Grimalkin had entered for the questioning. Now, the door in front of him opened. If he’d answered incorrectly or if the [Lieutenant] had any suspicion, Grimalkin was sure the magical traps would have activated. They did not, and he walked through.

“I’ll escort you, Magus. Command is hearing from the other witnesses, so there may be a delay. Can we offer you refreshments in any way?”

“If you have anything to eat, I’ll take it.”

Grimalkin nodded as the [Lieutenant] marched smartly with him through the inner, secret halls of Pallass. He was familiar with this place. They headed left.

“Certainly. I’ll send someone. Just in here, Magus. I’m sure you’re familiar with the proceedings?”

“Of course.”

“Then I’ll have refreshments sent shortly. And—may I shake your claw, sir? It was an inspiring feat. I witnessed. I wish I could have been in the fighting, but our orders were to hold—”

The [Lieutenant] held out a clawed hand. Grimalkin shook it firmly.

“Duty is duty, [Lieutenant]. The walls stand.”

“The walls stand.”

The Drake saluted and made his way off. Grimalkin entered the waiting room and found he wasn’t alone. A green-feathered Garuda sat in a comfortable chair. A door led into another room, but Grimalkin heard nothing from the soundproofed meeting room. He took a chair opposite Bevussa and nodded to her.

“Captain Slenderscale, isn’t it? The Wings of Pallass?”

“Bevussa. And it’s only ‘member’ of the Wings of Pallass. Outside of here, at any rate. Magus Grimalkin.”

Bevussa bowed slightly to Grimalkin. He nodded.

“Good morning to you. I heard the Wings were among the first to repel the Wyverns. Did you take casualties, Captain?”

“None. We got torn up, but we healed most of it. I lost some feathers and one of my adventurers—Kin—has a torn wing. But it’ll heal. We were lucky. I leveled from the fighting.”

“Congratulations. I did not, but I feel like I’ve advanced at least halfway towards the next level.”

The Garuda nodded. The two stared at each other for a moment and then both glanced at the sealed door. Bevussa shifted her talons.

“Magus? Refreshments. And for you, Adventurer. It’s an honor, sir—”

One of the [Soldiers] appeared with a tray of food. Grimalkin accepted it, and shook the other Drake’s hand. So did Bevussa. She eyed Grimalkin as he inspected the tray. Fruits, Gnollish dumplings—Grimalkin forgot the name—he selected some hard-boiled eggs and chewed one down without even bothering to add salt or pepper from the bowl.

It looked like they’d grabbed whatever they could. Grimalkin hoped he wasn’t eating someone’s lunch, but he had to keep eating to grow muscle. And bags of holding were not allowed in Pallass’ inner sanctum. Bevussa indicated the tray.

“You don’t mind if I…?”

“Help yourself.”

She selected some fruits and began peeling an orange. Fresh, probably from Oteslia.

“So you were called to testify, Magus? I shouldn’t be surprised. Sorry. I’m just a little nervous. I’ve never been here.”

She indicated the rooms of stone. Grimalkin recalled that Garuda were naturally claustrophobic, which probably didn’t help Bevussa at this moment. He nodded.

“Would you like a calming spell?”

“Oh, no—I’m fine. Plus, it would probably set off half a dozen alarms, wouldn’t it?”

“We are being monitored. But I can cast magic if need be. You needn’t worry, Captain Bevussa. This is just questioning. Not an arraignment.”

“A—of course. It’s just…”

Bevussa nodded towards the door. Grimalkin nodded. He knew what lay beyond. Not specifically, but he could guess.

While the Assembly of Crafts debated, another body of leadership in Pallass was also thinking over what they’d just witnessed. Of course, Pallass was a democracy. But it was also a Drake city. And that meant the military weighed in on decisions that were a threat to Pallass’ safety.

The door opened suddenly. Bevussa started. Grimalkin heard a flurry of voices. Then someone marched out.

“Keldrass.”

The Drake paused, seeing Grimalkin. The [Sinew Magus] looked past him into the room. He saw a group of conferring people.

Some of the more influential [Senators], three of Pallass’ [Generals], Chaldion and two other [Strategists], the [Lead Engineer] responsible for the elevator system in Pallass, three Watch Captains—and a few more faces Grimalkin and Bevussa recognized.

Names. This group made up a…not higher command than the Assembly, but a group of people who would decide what needed to be done. Along with, or parallel to whatever the Assembly of Crafts came up with.

“Magus.”

Keldrass saluted Grimalkin reflexively. Grimalkin stood up, but the door closed just as quickly as a Garuda walked out.

“Captain Keldrass, thank you for your time. Magus, Adventurer, I apologize, but you’ll have to wait for the command to organize their thoughts.”

“By all means.”

Grimalkin paused to shake Keldrass’ clawed hand. Bevussa looked like she wanted to ask questions, but the Gold-rank Captain was escorted from the room before they could talk. That left Bevussa and Grimalkin.

“We may be here a while. As much as an hour for you.”

“Really?”

Grimalkin nodded. He wished he’d brought a book. But he might as well work out after eating. Squats. Now would be the perfect time for some weights, but he’d never have gotten them through the checkpoint. Sighing, the Drake shook his head.

“How long have you been here, Captain?”

“Oh—since dawn.”

That explained why she was so restless. Grimalkin shook his head.

“My apologies.”

“I get the necessity. What’s going on outside?”

Grimalkin shrugged.

“Cleanup. The Assembly hasn’t stopped debating since yesterday. They’ve only taken a recess to help clean up the city, distribute aid—take care of their districts.”

“Of course. Did they say how many…?”

“They’re still counting. The estimates are at around five thousand six hundred, but they haven’t climbed for a few hours.”

“Ancestors.”

Bevussa closed her eyes. Grimalkin nodded. It could have been worse. A thousand Wyverns? It could have been far worse, but it was bad enough. Most had died in the first attack. More civilians than the defenders of Pallass, who’d been hit by the freezing Frost Wyvern’s breath.

“There will be a formal gathering later today. I believe the command will recess even if they’re not finished.”

“Of course.”

The Garuda nodded a few times. She fell silent. Grimalkin sensed she was about to ask something. He contented himself with two bananas. Oteslia must be growing more. They were native to Baleros, but he thought they were quite good fruits. Diet menu. With his new apprentices, he should rework—he wondered if Erin Solstice knew anything that would help.

Then again, with the way she made her food, perhaps not. He’d ask. Speaking of which—Bevussa glanced at the door again.

“Can I ask what I’ll be expected to share, Magus?”

“Of course. You’ll speak under truth spell, of course. It’s just a formality. But you can be sure the questions will revolve around your observations of Liscor. The Antinium. And of course…”

“Erin Solstice.”

The two fell silent. Grimalkin nodded. He swallowed, reached for the dumplings.

“The command will appreciate detail, even if it’s speculation. Your personal thoughts are welcomed. Perhaps not by all of the [Senators] or those within, but Chaldion will be present. Don’t fear—this isn’t a military command structure.”

“I saw General Edellein in there. And General Duln.”

“Naturally. But they’re two voices. Don’t worry.”

Grimalkin understood Bevussa’s apprehension. General Edellein of the 4th Army had to be spitting fire—well, if he could. Already, people were asking why the walls had been taken, why the 1st Army had been so slow to react. General Duln had been blasted, but at least he’d been there. The 4th Army, which had failed to lure the weyr was being mercilessly shredded by the Assembly of Crafts.

“Just speak your mind. Everything is to allow the command to make a more informed decision.”

“And they can’t fire me.”

Bevussa half-laughed. Grimalkin nodded. It would have been a concern if she were in the army. Gold-rank adventurers were more autonomous, but this was a Drake city. Even the adventurers reported to their leadership.

“Was that Keldrass of the Flamewardens I saw? Apologies, I’m blanking on names. My mind’s overly taxed from yesterday’s battle.”

“That’s right. He stayed at the inn too. You know Keldrass?”

“I’m familiar with Keldrass. I believe I taught his unit when he was in the army.”

Grimalkin saw Bevussa shifting.

“Something wrong with his testimony?”

“What? Oh, no. It’s just—Keldrass is a [Soldier] at heart. I was in the army for less time. Just to get my wings in. But Keldrass—he says what he sees. And he hasn’t been in the inn as long.”

Grimalkin nodded. He began to understand a bit of Bevussa’s hesitation.

“When the command finishes deliberating—I’ll request permission to speak first. And I will begin with that.”

“Wait? You’ll ask?”

Bevussa stared at Grimalkin. Few people were aware of Grimalkin’s exact rank. But he worked with the army more closely than many imagined. The [Sinew Magus] nodded.

“It’s pertinent. And I have no doubt that while many questions will be about the Antinium, just as many will be about her.”

“Erin Solstice.”

Again, the name lingered. If Grimalkin had said her name before, no one in Pallass would have cared. Today, it was one of a handful of names being repeated.

“What will you tell them?”

Grimalkin looked at Bevussa. The Garuda hesitated. She opened and closed her beak, and then collected her thoughts.

“I know Bird. I’ve met him. Actually, I’ve chatted with him a lot. He’s…obsessed with Birds. He gets me to tell him stories. And when he figured out he could pay for my drinks, he was completely willing to pay for my team’s drinks forever just for a single story about flying monsters. He doesn’t…manage money. And Erin’s had him in his watchtower forever.”

Grimalkin nodded.

“I had the same impression, honestly. I hadn’t met him more than a few times, but…I am familiar with Miss Solstice’ inn.”

Bevussa nodded.

“It’s her inn. And Bird’s—I don’t know how I’m going to say it. But I have to, right?”

Grimalkin remembered one conversation with Bird. He paused. Nodded.

“That’s my intent too. Temper whatever radical thoughts are out there. Tell the truth. Whatever the other Walled Cities may think—the world may think—”

“Yeah.”

The two looked at each other. How were they going to say it? It was hilarious, ridiculous. Bird wasn’t a new form of Prognugator, or a Centenium. He was just an employee at an inn and Erin Solstice…

“What a disaster. How can I tell them?”

Bevussa put her head in her talons. Grimalkin was nodding, but he caught himself. He remembered Bird’s line.

“I am as simple as I choose to be. I am a Bird and I am free to be me.”

The Drake thought of Erin and paused. It was ludicrous, how it had all played out. Even so…his claws drummed on the armrest of his chair as he picked up another morsel.

“Honestly, I cannot say that it’s entirely coincidence.”

Bevussa looked up sharply. Grimalkin nodded his head at the door.

“When I think of her, I can’t imagine she’s duplicitous. But there are layers I do not know about Erin Solstice. And the Antinium—when I testify, I will explain as much as I can. But I cannot swear that it is not all part of a larger viewpoint I’m unaware of. No doubt that’s why Chaldion is taking it so seriously.”

“Neither can I. And I mean—I didn’t think it would come to this. But it’s her. How do I explain her, even if you can make sense of Bird and the Antinium?”

“Erin Solstice.”

It was going to be hard. Both adventurer and [Mage] nodded. Bevussa sighed.

“I’d like to say she’s just—Erin. But then—she’s Erin. I wish I knew more, honestly. I knew she was—but I thought she was just weird. You know?”

“I think after today, we’ll all be regretting not looking into her sooner, Captain Bevussa. The only question is—what each city does about it. Pallass is ideally placed. But now all the cities know about her.”

Grimalkin’s exhausted mind was thinking of all that might transpire from today’s events. He shook his head. He’d ask the command. Weigh in as hard as he could, and Grimalkin could exert some weight. Even so, today he was a witness, and he was no [General].

What a mess. Bevussa’s feathered head turned as she looked towards the door.

“About Erin. Do you think—I know she was here for the Wyvern attack, but that was an accident this time. Probably. She’s done so much—and I wasn’t even around for a lot of it. But how much will the Assembly or…anyone look into her?”

Grimalkin considered it. Whatever would be done, he was going to caution prudence. No radical moves. But of a certainty, he was going to move Erin up on his priority list. He suspected he wouldn’t be the only one. But carefully. Very carefully…

“Erin Solstice is odd. An enigma in many ways. But you are correct, Captain. She isn’t as important as the Antinium Hive in Liscor, or even many individuals or organizations the Walled Cities have to deal with. She knows many people, and that is her worth. That’s the power of an [Innkeeper].”

“Right. She didn’t slay any Wyverns herself this battle. But she employs Bird.”

Bevussa nodded a few times. Grimalkin nodded as well.

“She’s part of a puzzle. A keystone. A useful ally, or an unpredictable force multiplier for good or ill.”

He paused.

“Even then, her power isn’t everything. She can sway events, not change them by herself. Erin Solstice is not Saliss of Lights. Saliss could break an army of Antinium by himself. Like Zel Shivertail, he makes up the Walled Cities as much as the walls themselves. He is irreplaceable.”

The door opened. Grimalkin saw someone waving at Bevussa. She stood up uncertainly, and Grimalkin walked towards the door. Say his part. He looked at Bevussa and his thoughts came together. The [Sinew Magus] turned his head as the inner circle of Pallass’ leadership looked at him. He spoke to Bevussa.

“Erin Solstice is not Saliss of Lights. But she might be one day. The only question is—whose?”

Then Grimalkin turned and walked forwards.



—-



The best laid plans of Drakes and Gnolls…had nothing in them that accounted for Erin Solstice. They had no idea who she was, what she could do. She was a wildcard in a game that had no idea you could cheat like that.

In a way, Ilvriss felt bad for the Walled Cities. He knew they were already trying to put her in their square holes and they had no idea what kind of shape she was.

Neither did he, honestly. But he knew the Walled Cities. The Wall Lord of Salazsar sat in his office and guessed what they might do.

“First debate. Manus’ war councils, Pallass’ inner circles, Zeres’ admirals, Oteslia’s matriarch…Fissival’s idiots…”

Yes, he knew the Walled Cities. They were predictable, at least. Each city was assessing, convening their leadership. And that was, again, just the Walled Cities. Ilvriss guessed that the Humans and even other nations might be making plans off what they’d seen.

But they had no idea. None at all. They thought they knew, and perhaps some in Pallass had learned what Erin Solstice was. But few others did. They had no idea about the hilarious, disastrous…

“Bird the Hunter.”

Ilvriss closed his eyes. The purple-scaled Drake sat back in his chair. It was already spreading. Bird the Hunter’s name was being etched into security briefings, [Strategist]’s notes. Who was this new Prognugator? As dangerous as Xrn the Small Queen, or Klbkch the Slayer? Wrymvr the Deathless? Surely so, for he had a name.

They’d be asking questions. About Erin, too. The Human who knew a Prognugator. Erin Solstice, who’d they’d finally connect with the small, but entertaining incidents around Liscor. A girl who’d led a Goblin army. Employed Hobgoblins?

Erin Solstice, possible enemy of the Walled Cities. Erin Solstice, the enigmatic, mysterious force to be appraised. Erin Solstice, connected to the dangerous, unpredictable new Prognugator.

Bird the Hunter.

Ilvriss couldn’t take it anymore. He began to laugh, caught himself, slammed his head—lightly—onto his desk, and then let out a guffaw.

That was an appropriate response. Aside from weeping.

“Ilvriss? Wall Lord?”

Alrric, the [Administrator] of the Gemscale holdings and second to Ilvriss in the matters of his business, opened the office door. He stared down at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord was sitting in his chair. But the chair had fallen backwards onto the carpet of the office.

“Are you all right, Wall Lord?”

“Merely expressing my emotions towards the battle, Alrric.”

“Ah.”

The Gnoll watched as Ilvriss got up and pulled his chair up. He eyed Ilvriss oddly. It was rare to see Ilvriss Gemscale, the dignified, handsome, proud Wall Lord of Salazsar do anything that might embarrass himself, and thus, his city. But Ilvriss had changed since returning home.

Everyone knew it. Oh, he’d hosted parties and reentered Salazsar’s highest society, but the Wall Lord was changed to anyone who was familiar with him. Alrric, as someone who met with Ilvriss on a regular basis, saw it even more especially. But the Gnoll just nodded.

“A dramatic battle. And that—Antinium. Bird the Hunter.”

Straight-faced, Ilvriss stood behind his chair. He was going to have to say that without laughing.

“Exactly. It’s not a matter to take lightly. I’m going to be busy today, Alrric.”

“Anything in store for me?”

The Gnoll walked over to Ilvriss’ neat desk. The Wall Lord had a sheaf of papers, all magically transcribed. Ilvriss picked them up and nodded before Alrric could see the contents.

“The Holders of the Walls will be convening. All of them. Later today. I shall be joining them—but before that, I will be conferring with my family.”

“Obviously. I’ll manage things today.”

The Gnoll nodded. He was one of the most powerful Gnolls in Salazsar, as the [Administrator] behind the Gemscale holdings. But there was power and power. Ilvriss was a Wall Lord. He and his peers ruled Salazsar.

They had no Assembly of Crafts, no senate. Nor did they have a Dragonspeaker, or a matriarch like the other Walled Cities. They had never changed their rulership. Salazsar had been founded by the Wall Lords and the Walled Ladies and it was still theirs. Such was Salazsar. Tradition, gemstones, and pride.

“Is it war, Wall Lord?”

Again, Ilvriss nearly laughed. But he turned it into a bitter quirk of the lips.

“Do you think the Walled Cities are ready for it, Alrric?”

The question surprised the Gnoll. He peered at Ilvriss.

“I would have thought you’d have assured me the Walled Cities were ready to stamp out the Antinium threat, Wall Lord. And I’d have assumed so, before what I saw yesterday. What will you decide?”

“I have a plan. Which doesn’t involve war yet.”

Ilvriss indicated the sheaf of papers. He sighed.

“I can’t say more, yet. I’ll let you take charge, Alrric. But before that—we need to talk funding.”

“Ah.”

The Gnoll’s eyes sharpened. This at least, he knew quite well. The [Administrator] saw Ilvriss check his notes, and then find a paper and offer it to the Gnoll. Alrric read and his brows rose. Ilvriss nodded.

“Can you sequester the funds, Alrric? Without slowing operations or making it an obvious withdrawal?”

“I assume this isn’t a one-time cost?”

“It’s per month.”

“Of course.”

Alrric sighed. It was not an easy sum to manage. But it never was, in his position. He didn’t ask Ilvriss what it was for. He just did math. Ilvriss saw Alrric’s paws twitching, as if he was using the abacus. Ilvriss had one on his desk too. At last, Alrric nodded.

“I can do it. If you let me sell the rights to the opal shafts.”

“Sell them?”

Ilvriss’ brows shot together. The [Administrator] nodded.

“They’re tapped. It’s steady, but we’re not employing enough [Miners] to justify the teams working on this and the new seam. I say sell while it’s still worth something and use the funds to pay for investment in the new seam. We’ve already gotten truegold and magicore from the vein—it’s a safe risk.”

The Wall Lord tapped his claws on his desk. He was a [Lord], but it had to be said, Ilvriss wasn’t a purely war-based [Lord] like Tyrion Veltras. He could fight, and lead, and manage, but he was specialized towards one end: making money. And he did it well. Ilvriss chewed over Alrric’s words and nodded.

“Very well. You have control over the development. I’ll leave it to you. And the bonuses if we strike enough at year’s end. Full control. My claws are off the project.”

That surprised Alrric, the second time in as many minutes. The Gnoll’s brows shot up. He eyed Ilvriss.

They were familiar enough that sometimes Alrric dropped Ilvriss’ title, but they were still superior and subordinate. Ilvriss had understood that Alrric addressing him informally was part of the give and take. But he’d seldom referenced it openly. Today was different. Everything was.

“There was a time you’d never have let me manage your company, Wall Lord. Not with full control, even if you agreed with all my plans.”

Ilvriss nodded. That was absolutely true. He’d managed his company since he was barely Erin’s age—each Drake family had a portion of Salazsar’s economy that built their towers, teams of miners and others they employed that fed their fortunes. And while some Wall Lords and Ladies preferred to leave it to trusted individuals, Ilvriss had always, always been in charge.

But now, the Wall Lord just folded his claws behind his back, keeping the soft papers from wrinkling as he looked out his large glass windows.

“It was Tasilt who introduced me to you, wasn’t it, Alrric? Twelve years ago?”

“That’s correct.”

Alrric frowned. Wall Lord Tasilt, the renegade of the Wall Lords for marrying a Gnoll and employing unorthodox business practices had indeed recommended Alrric. He had been an on-off-on-again friend with Ilvriss for that reason. Ilvriss regretted that now. The Wall Lord nodded absently.

“It took me over a year to agree, you know. Even though you were the best Gnoll for the job. But Tasilt had to talk me into it. He was right that a non-Drake [Administrator] was better than a Drake. If I hadn’t listened to him, taken a ‘chance’ after the corruption scandal—I wouldn’t have been able to leave the Gemscale holdings to you when it mattered most.”

The Gnoll standing across Ilvriss’ desk was blinking hard. He peered at Ilvriss, wondering if the Wall Lord had taken ill. Or simply leave of his senses. Ilvriss turned.

“Call on me if you need to use one of my Skills. Otherwise—you’re in charge. My family doesn’t need me to explain or justify your authority. I have to go, Alrric. The Holders of the Wall are meeting and I have to convince my family first.”

He strode towards the door. Alrric stopped him. The Gnoll looked Ilvriss up and down and came out with it.

“Wall Lord, are you well?”

Ilvriss grinned mirthlessly. He felt like he could read Alrric like a book, at least in this moment. The Gnoll stared at him. The Drake just turned his head and shook it, meeting Alrric’s stare.

“I’ve learned to look harder at people in different ways, Alrric. You have my trust. And certainly, certainly I’d like to earn yours sometime. It occurs to me you’ve never once told me about your family. Or your past outside of your previous jobs.”

The Gnoll blinked. He replied automatically.

“It never came up, Wall Lord.”

Ilvriss glanced at Alrric’s face thoughtfully. And now he was on the back claw. Paw. Foot. Whatever. He shook his head again.

“No. I doubt it ever would have. We will have to talk, Alrric. I wonder how many suggestions you had that you’d never have run by me a month ago.”

He put his claws on the door. Alrric, staring at Ilvriss, looked at the desk and then at the Drake. He called out as Ilvriss flung his office door open.

“What happened to you in Liscor, Ilvriss? When you left?”

Everyone knew something. But Ilvriss hadn’t told anyone directly. Everyone ‘knew’, but it had never come from the Wall Lord’s mouth himself. Now, the Drake [Lord] turned. He looked at Alrric.

“I saw my love die, and the Tidebreaker die hundreds of miles from the nearest Drake army. I met an idiot, and I quit drinking.”

Then he turned away. Ilvriss shut the door quietly. Alrric stared at it, and then looked around the office. He blinked.

“That would about do it, yes.”

The Gnoll looked at Ilvriss’ desk. He walked around it, and stared at the seat. Then, slowly, he pulled out the chair and got to work.



—-



Wall Lord Ilvriss strode across the spires and upper walkways of Salazsar. Power climbed, at least in the City of Gems. He could look down and stare into his city, built into the side of a mountain. Salazsar, the lone Walled City that kept building itself, year by year, century by century, was vast. Sprawling. Magnificent.

And also—complacent. Ilvriss saw it in the grand towers, decorated and beautiful. In the anxiety of the people who called out to him. In his family, his fellow Holders of the Wall. The Drake saw it in his city and he disliked it.

Complacency. How had he not seen it before? He had been blind, but now Ilvriss felt like he was staring at a different world. It wasn’t just Erin Solstice that had changed his perception either. She was just a catalyst. For the rest—no—Ilvriss wouldn’t have been able to see what he needed to become if he hadn’t seen the very icon of it, been lectured by him himself.

Zel Shivertail. The hero of the Antinium Wars. The Tidebreaker.

“Grimalkin of Pallass is bigger than Shivertail. But he is a poor copy. If Shivertail stood on those walls?”

Ilvriss tried to imagine that scene. It would be similar. But—

“If he stood on those walls, that Antinium would have never gotten away with his bluff.”

The Wall Lord shook his head. He could almost see it. That damned Drake’s back. But Zel was dead. Slain.

Dead. But not forgotten. Never forgotten. His shadow loomed over Ilvriss, a reminder. And a word came to Ilvriss’ lips that he would never speak, not even as he walked in his secure home.

Az’kerash. The Necromancer.

Ilvriss had one enemy. Only one. The Antinium, the Humans, all took a back seat to the Necromancer. But Ilvriss’ foe was elusive. His reach might be anywhere. Ilvriss trusted so few—

“Wall Lord.”

“Ah, Captain Shieldscale.”

One of them saluted Ilvriss now. Osthia Blackwing, disguised as the blue-scaled Captain Shieldscale, fell into step with the Wall Lord. She had been promoted to the his head of his private armed forces. Ilvriss knew people were already speculating about her relationship with him, or the other reasons he might have employed her.

Let them talk. Right now, Ilvriss was focused. He nodded to Osthia and murmured.

“Is my father in his quarters? I need to speak with him, and then get to the meeting with the Holders of the Wall.”

“He is. About yesterday. That Antinium—”

Osthia was vibrating with tension. And how not? It was her city that had been attacked. But she didn’t know Erin. She didn’t know—Bird. Ilvriss put a claw on her shoulder.

“I’ll meet with you later, Captain. For now—I’m putting the plan into action.”

He brandished the papers. Osthia’s eyes widened.

“Now? But I thought—”

“This is the perfect excuse. The perfect moment. If you see my sister coming for me—stall her. I don’t want her getting wind of what I have planned until the meeting.”

Osthia nodded. She slipped away as Ilvriss walked through his mansion. His people greeted him, anxious to know more, but Ilvriss had no time. He had a schedule, and a plan.

The first part of his plan sat in a chair in his quarters, near a fire. Zail Gemscale, Ilvriss’ father, looked up sharply as Ilvriss entered the room.

“Father.”

“Ilvriss. You saw?”

Zail was staring at a scrying orb. Ilvriss saw a wyvern soaring through the skies and for a moment his heart skipped. Were they attacking again?

No. it was a replay. One being broadcast from Wistram. Ilvriss relaxed. He didn’t trust the scrying orb—the [Wardmistress] who’d inspected Ilvriss’ mansion had told him point-blank that they were weak points. Even so, this conversation was fine to share even if there was a watcher. That was the point.

“Father, the battle’s over. You can relax.”

“Relax? After seeing a Walled City nearly fall to Wyverns? Those fools can’t even hold their walls.”

Zail sneered, but his scales were paler than usual, despite the fire’s heat. Wall Lord Zail was pale, and his claws shook a bit. He was also wearing his sword in its scabbard, Ilvriss saw. Zail had fought in wars before, and the dent along one side of his head was proof of his sacrifices for Salazsar. He had even commanded during the two Antinium Wars, but his health was gone.

Even so. Ilvriss stooped, peering at the orb.

“I heard it was a failure of the [Strategist] on the walls. There was a survivor. He claimed the [Cage of Pallass] spell wasn’t used—that the Wyverns launched an incredibly fast attack.”

“Fools.”

Zail shook his head. He stared blankly at the scrying orb. The Wall Lord shuddered as an image appeared. Ilvriss only saw Bird. But Zail recoiled from the orb. He pointed at it.

“I saw that thing, Ilvriss. You were in Liscor. Were they—there?”

“Yes. The Antinium.”

Ilvriss’ eyes glinted.

Zail paused.

“What madness possesses those idiots? Now, one stands on the walls. Even for Pallass.”

“It may be a sign the Antinium are changing.”

Ilvriss spoke casually. He wasn’t lying. Zail had a ring on his finger that commanded a [Truth] spell. No, a more powerful version of it. He hadn’t twisted it, but you never knew how the spell worked. Zail twitched.

“Something has to be done. Another one. We killed the other. The Slayer. And the others. What was the name of the one?”

“Devrkr. Devrkr the Glowing.”

“Yes. I saw it die. We had to kill it again and again. It kept coming back. But it died. The last time it died.”

Zail whispered. His clawed hand was gripping his sword. He stared up at Ilvriss.

“Three of them. Now four.”

“Bird the Hunter. He may not be a Centenium, father.”

“Don’t believe that. Don’t underestimate them!”

The Wall Lord snapped at his son. Now he was turning the ring. Ilvriss bowed his head.

“I would never. Father, I have a plan. I’m going to meet with the Holders of the Wall and present it. I wanted to outline it to you first.”

Wall Lord Zail stared at his son. He glanced at the papers Ilvriss handed to him.

“Show me.”

Ilvriss waited as Zail rifled through the papers. The Wall Lord blinked, his faded eyes tracing lines of Ilvriss’ neat handwriting, magically copied exactly.

“This—”

“That’s part of it. I’d like to expand the scope, though. Do I have permission to withdraw some of the heirlooms from Salazsar’s treasuries?”

Not just the Gemscale armories. The greatest of the Walled City’s treasures were even more heavily guarded. Zail recoiled.

“Withdraw…”

He hesitated, staring at the orb, Ilvriss’ proposals.

“You want to do this?”

“What would you have me do besides this? I will manage the heirlooms myself. And I plan on using money from the mining operations to fund all of it. As well as ask for a joint contribution.”

“Yes. But artifacts—”

Ilvriss’ father hesitated. But his eyes went back to the scrying orb. Bird’s form didn’t magically reappear, but it didn’t matter. Zail shuddered. He saw a nightmare. And Ilvriss felt guilty for using Bird. But—

“Go. I’ll get the key. Go—tell the others.”

Zail whispered, staring at the scrying orb. A memory. Ilvriss looked at his father, his sword half-drawn from his sheathe. The younger [Lord] paused, then he bowed and left.



—-



The thing about Erin. Ilvriss walked into the room where the other Holders of the Wall stood. Each bloodline had sent one representative, at least. The Holders of the Wall had a place to meet, in the ancient stone where the Walled City had first been hollowed out of the mountain. It was ancient, and glorious, and normally Ilvriss entered the place with reverence.

Not today. That was the Ilvriss of old. The new one was a stranger to these halls. But he walked with a purpose.

The thing about Erin Solstice that Ilvriss had learned was how to manage her. You had to react to Erin. You never knew where she could jump. She made mockeries of plans. Even by accident, she found herself at the heart of conflict. She didn’t start it, but she shaped it.

The thing about her was that you couldn’t wave your claws and scream in surprise or demand answers. You had to strike. She presented an opening, and Ilvriss reached for it.

“Ilvriss!”

Someone called out to Ilvriss in the rows of seats. He saw his sister, Navine Gemscale, glaring at him. Osthia must have kept her from meeting Ilvriss, because the younger Gemscale was furious. And suspicious. She was historically at odds with Ilvriss; the two had never seen eye-to-eye. The Gemscale family of four was split down the middle.

Zail Gemscale and his son were different from Helessia Gemscale and her daughter, Navine. They disagreed on topics like war, politics, the way Salazsar and Drakes should change. On Humans above all.

Well, until recently. Ilvriss nodded to Navine, but sat opposite her. The Holders of the Wall murmured as Navine glared; some came over, talking to Ilvriss as he readied himself. They were already debating, although no one had claimed the floor yet.

“Ilvriss. You saw what happened yesterday? What a disaster.”

Wall Lord Brilm, a continual drinker and fascinated collector of what was new and trending was the first to approach Ilvriss. He was shaken—as shaken as many of the other Holders of the Wall.

They had seen Antinium only a few times, during war. And the sight of one inside a Walled City had rattled them. Ilvriss nodded to Brilm.

“A disaster. The Wyvern attack should not have reached Pallass. It was only luck that they repelled the attack so well. But if they hadn’t had Grimalkin of Pallass or Saliss of Lights—”

“They still blundered. Ancestors, an Antinium in their city! That magic door—how did they not protect against it? If I were them and I had to have that thing, I’d have it outside the city under lock and key!”

“No doubt Pallass will take precautions. It was only one Antinium, though.”

“Only one! Did you hear what it said? It threatened war.”

“I heard. And I have a plan I intend to lay before all present, Brilm. Can I count on you for support?”

The more portly Drake’s eyes widened.

“A plan? Of course you have one. About time someone does! I was talking with the others and no one’s got a decent—Manus is sending orders, as always. But we have to have our own response. I’ll back it. Just give me a signal.”

“Votes are enough. Here. I’ll pass you a copy—”

The papers Ilvriss had labored over changed hands. Brilm hurried away, waving some of his friends over as he paged through Ilvriss’ documents. The Wall Lord nodded, seeing Navine glaring at him.

“That is some stare your sister’s giving you, Ilvriss.”

A voice came from the Wall Lord’s left. Wall Lord Tasilt, another old friend and the odd one out—metaphorically speaking since the room was filled with only Drakes—walked over. But he was different, even more so than Navine and her allies. He’d married a Gnoll, and Ilvriss had once considered that the height of difference.

What fool, he. Ilvriss nodded to Tasilt. Now, oh, now, he looked at his old friend a lot more favorably than Brilm. He always had, Ilvriss supposed. Tasilt had ideas. Brilm had trends. What had impeded Ilvriss before was prejudice.

Past time to start making the right choices. Ilvriss nodded to Tasilt.

“Navine’s suspicious. Rightly so. I have a plan to put before everyone.”

“Well, it occurs to me we should have had them years ago, but I’ll listen.”

Tasilt nodded cautiously. He didn’t offer Ilvriss a vote. The Wall Lord nodded.

“Take a look at this. And before you say anything, I’m going to distribute it to everyone and I’d like your input. It’s not set in stone. The concept, yes. The execution?”

He let Tasilt take the document. The other Drake read quickly. He was well-liked among the public of Salazsar. Less so in this august gathering. But no one would deny that Tasilt hadn’t done well with his ventures. Some failed, some went spectacularly well. Now, the Drake eyed Ilvriss’ proposal.

“Well…that’s something. But is it just lip-service, or will it actually change things, Ilvriss? One more group won’t do much. And if this is just designed to one-up the other Walled Cities…”

He looked at Ilvriss meaningfully. The Wall Lord almost smiled.

“Not at all. I mean every word.”

“In that case, you’re planning on starting the Third Antinium War. If not now, then in a few years.”

“No.”

“Then what am I reading?”

Tasilt glanced sharply at Ilvriss, looking him up and down. Ilvriss took a breath.

“The only chance we have of creating a unified force between all the Walled Cities. Because that was what won us the last war, Tasilt. The last two wars. We lost Zel Shivertail. And he was the only Drake who could do it alone. This? This is attempting to replace what one Drake was.”

The other Wall Lord’s brows rose. He stared at the papers. Then he nodded, slowly.

“Let’s get a drink together later. My place. Assuming you can pass it.”

“In this room?”

Ilvriss looked around at the worried Drakes. Tasilt paused. He almost smiled.

“I’ll introduce you to my family. You’d be surprised how much they’ve changed.”

He walked off to his seat, and to confer with some others. Ilvriss waited, talking to others, distributing the papers around. Navine had a hold of one, he saw, and she stared at Ilvriss’ words and then glared up at him. But before she could make her way over to them, the Holders of the Wall heard a voice.

“It’s time. Is every representative here?”

An old Drake, Wall Lord Calistoca, took the center of the room. She looked around. The Wall Lords and Ladies present slowly turned, and sat. This was how they ruled, the leadership of Salazsar. They presented their rings. Copper and brass, disguised, turned to gold. The rings glowed. Ilvriss lifted his claw, but his ring was missing. He saw Navine and some of the others looking at him sharply, but the golden magic that worked only in this room still illuminated him.

No one could stand in this room whose heart did not belong to Salazsar. The glow faded, and the Holders of the Wall spoke. They needed no solemn vows, or oaths of fealty. Their presence alone was enough.

“Complacency.”

The word was an echo of Ilvriss’ thoughts. He stared as Calistoca, oldest of those gathered, hissed across the room. The Drakes here could speak at will, but they let each other speak by turns. She opened with that word.

“The Walled Cities have known peace! But today we saw an Antinium on the walls of Pallass. One, but it named itself. It called itself—Bird the Hunter.”

“We saw a Human too. Aiding it.”

A Wall Lord to Ilvriss’ left spoke up. The room was divided into camps. Ilvriss, traditionalist, a supporter of Salazsar’s superiority and conflict with Humans, and any number of stances—in the past—was directly opposite Navine. Brilm was closer to the middle. Tasilt sat more on Navine’s side. She and some of the others glared at the Wall Lord who’d spoken.

“We saw a Human, which is part of what we’re discussing. Who was that?”

“Never mind the Wyverns, eh?”

Brilm joked. Some of his peers glared at him too. Voices sprang up, worried, thoughtful, agitated.

“What do we know about the battle?”

“Aside from what we saw, you mean? There’s no information about that Human—”

“Erin Solstice.”

“Weird name. No information about her, or that Antinium. Bird the Hunter.”

“A Prognugator? How has Liscor not informed us of it? What are they doing?”

“They’re all mad. I told you. The border city’s gone cracked, and this just proves it. We nearly went to war over them—it’s Pallass’ domain, but that city can’t even keep a hold over its walls—”

“What are the other Walled Cities saying?”

“Well, Manus is giving orders. They want a full investigation, Pallass to do wall drills—”

“Hah! Those were Frost Wyverns. I found a bestiary and heard the accounts. They blasted everything off the walls—they had less than a minute to react. That was just bad luck.”

“Well, it’s still idiotic and a disgrace. What about the Human? And the Antinium?”

“Manus wants more funds.”

“Do they? How incredible! I’d never have imagined it! I’m being sarcastic, by the way.”

“Well, someone has to do something. Fissival’s put forwards a proposal to increase our military spending across all the Walled Cities by another ten percent—”

“Which does what, exactly? We’re already stalemated with the Antinium. Let’s just fund Manus. They can hire a few [Geomancers] to cast [Earthquake] on the Hives. Something serious so they know we mean business this time.”

“You’ve read the reports. The spells don’t do as much damage anymore. And each time we do that, the Antinium always retaliate. Our border lines—”

“So hire six [Geomancers] all at once. If Manus wants to keep up the harassment, let’s fund them. Oteslia’s suggesting we go after the Wyverns—nothing about the Antinium.”

“They’re just afraid the Wyverns will go and eat their pegasuses and crops.”

“Pegasi. It’s plural.”

The conversations were pedantic, pointed, and quick. Sometimes they got off-track, but Ilvriss heard only worry, nothing concrete. The other Walled Cities were doing exactly what he’d predicted. Fissival was planning new war spells. Could use funding from other cities. Not naming Salazsar exactly!

Oteslia wanted to take down the Wyvern threat, and it was motioning for a hunting force from the other cities. Manus needed support for their secret operations—a strike against the Antinium, no doubt. Pallass—in between defending itself—was suggesting the Wyvern corpses could outfit a new regiment. Zeres wanted ships since the Antinium were obviously unable to defeat a naval force.

That was what the Walled Cities were saying. But Ilvriss was certain each city also had a group like this, which was planning. Looking for more private measures they could take. Even united, each Walled City wanted to have the advantage over the others. That was the problem with Drakes.

Ilvriss sighed. He listened as his peers argued. But then he heard a voice override a discussion about Wyvern armor versus normal leather.

“Why don’t we let someone who was at Liscor tell us what he thinks about the entire affair?”

Brilm winked unsubtly at Ilvriss and sat down. But it was an opening. Ilvriss stood and felt all eyes on him. Navine glared at her sibling.

“And why don’t you tell us what’s been passed around, Ilvriss? You clearly came here with a plan.”

Murmuring in the ranks.

“Plan? What plan?”

“He was there. What a cursed city.”

“What plan? Pass me that—”

Ilvriss raised his claws for silence. He indicated the stack of papers he had.

“I have indeed come here with a plan, Wall Lady Navine. And as I pass it to you, I’ll deliver my thoughts.”

He walked around the room, handing out the sheaves of paper. The Holders of the Wall read, relieved to be reading a laid-out plan, a document like the ones they reviewed in their jobs managing their business. Ilvriss took the center of the room.

“I have been to Liscor. And I’ve met that Human. And that Antinium. Not personally, but I have seen them.”

“And is it a Centenium, Ilvriss?”

The Wall Lord felt countless eyes on him. And truth spells, appraising him. He paused.

“No. I very much doubt it is. But consider what we saw. We saw an Antinium claiming to be a Prognugator. Whether he is or not, I again doubt. But what we saw, to me at least, is terrifying. Anyone else with a military background surely agrees.”

He looked at some of the [Lords] and [Ladies] who’d graduated from Manus, or fought. All of them, including Calistoca, nodded slowly.

“How so? It was one Antinium.”

Navine glared down at Ilvriss. He raised one brow.

“One Antinium? Yes. But one who was not Centenium, or else we would have met him in the Second Antinium Wars or the First, and who was clearly a new addition to Liscor’s Hive. The city is aware of…Bird the Hunter. But they haven’t classified him as a Prognugator until now. Think about what that means. A Worker who can use a bow.”

“They can all use bows. We’ve seen the Hives in battle. Their Workers can use bows, the same as any idiot with arms and legs.”

One of the Wall Lords snapped at Ilvriss. Calistoca glared.

“Can they shoot a Wyvern’s eye out from hundreds of feet away? What young Ilvriss is saying is that this one’s good. It has levels.”

The room fell silent. Ilvriss nodded.

“We’re prepared for a third war. We’ve taken countermeasures. But we’ve trusted in the Antinium’s weaknesses. Inability to swim. Lack of flying Antinium.”

“Except for the damned ones with wings. They’re changing.”

“But they can’t fly, Brilm. Manus’ reports put them at huge leaps, but we were convinced that our Oldbloods would be able to dominate the skies from range, excluding artifacts, conflicts with Xrn, or Wrymvr, or some of the Twisted Antinium. Until now.”

Tasilt pointed out. He looked at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord nodded back.

“Exactly. With some difficulty, we could hold the skies. But consider this Antinium. He is a dedicated anti-air specialist. Capable of bringing down Wyverns with what appears to be an unenchanted bow. You know what that means.”

“Levels.”

Someone muttered. The room fell silent.

“He’s just one. Prognugators can level. We all know that.”

“Yes, but what if the Antinium can make more? That’s the point, isn’t it? If they can make one Prognugator capable of defeating our fliers…”

What else have they got? Ilvriss saw the others looking at each other uneasily. Almost everyone had a copy of his proposal now. Now, it was time to take advantage of the fear. The uncertainty. This was Ilvriss’ plan.

“That’s what I see as well. Perhaps not immediate, but the threat is there. So I have a proposal before you all. I had it in mind before this incident, but it’s only convinced me that the time is now. With your support, I’d like to enact a project beyond whatever support the Walled Cities agree on as a whole.”

The Holders of the Wall murmured. They checked Ilvriss’ plan, looking at each other. Navine was shaking her head, arguing with those around her, but the others liked this.

“We have to have something. Manus will be cooking something up as well. All the other cities…”

“I was thinking of investigating that Human. Sending a few [Spies], but this—what am I reading, Ilvriss?”

Ilvriss smiled. He indicated the papers.

“I’m proposing funding. Not funding for our armies, but a contribution from each tower. Off the books and in secret. With it, I’ll put together a force. I’m planning on approaching other cities. Even other Walled Cities. Recruiting. Even from outside Izril.”

For a second the room fell silent. Then Navine shot to her feet. Her tail lashed as she glared at Ilvriss.

“Ridiculous! You want to put together this—this force of elites? We have elite soldiers! What do we need another one for?”

“Fighting the Antinium, obviously. Salazsar has powerful groups, Wall Lady Navine. But it does not have a superior force. I am not calling for the development of one single group of [Soldiers]. I am saying I want to steal every elite Drake, Gnoll, or other species I can find and put them into a single, cohesive group. And if the Antinium attack—we have seen that high-level elites do far better than any other force. Well, this will be superior even to Liscor’s vaunted armies.”

“Don’t listen to him. This force won’t be just used against the Antinium. If it’s formed, I guarantee it’ll be used against Humans or anyone else ‘we’ decide is an enemy.”

Navine glared at Ilvriss. She looked triumphant, furious—Ilvriss knew she was thinking she’d found out his grand plans. And she was disgusted. This was another attempt for him to secure Salazsarian superiority. Or so she thought.

“Shouldn’t we have a force like that? It’s expensive. This is calling for—Ilvriss, why all the gold?”

“Gold buys everything we need, Wall Lord Khaiss. Arms, training, equipment—”

“It’s just a waste of gold. It’ll be another drain on our coffers…”

“Say that to Pallass. Did you or did you not see it being attacked? And that Antinium?”

“We can’t authorize this! If the other Walled Cities get wind of this—listen to me! Leaving this in Ilvriss’ discretion—”

“Not his alone. You can read, can’t you? It says joint command. But I like the sound of a secret project like this. And if there is a war…”

Ilvriss waited. He met Navine’s eyes as she glared at him. She looked down at the papers for a moment.

“And what do you call this grand proposal, Ilvriss?”

He told her. Navine stared at him. And for a moment she faltered. The other Drakes stared at Ilvriss, but no one commented on it. Ilvriss nodded. Let them think what it meant. The name had a deeper meaning.

“I believe it’s time for a vote. All in favor?”

The Holders debated. Hands rose and Ilvriss counted. Oh yes. It would pass. In this room, at this moment? The shaken Holders of the Wall would vote him some of what he wanted. Not all. And Navine would try and block him. She had her own plans. But Ilvriss would have his secret project, gathering an elite force that may or may not be used against all of Salazsar’s enemies…or just the Antinium.

He gave it a week, two on the outside before someone blabbed and all the Walled Cities heard about it. It would be an open secret; you couldn’t hide this. No doubt Az’kerash would hear of it too, somehow.

Well, here went brave Wall Lord Ilvriss, preparing to assail the Antinium. He’d go around, beating a war drum and coincidentally, visit other cities. Ilvriss had an excuse. It would be messy, and it would be political. But he’d have a reason to travel.

And that’s when his work, and Osthia’s would really begin. Ilvriss nodded as the Holders of the Wall began to vote. He saw Navine glaring at him, Tasilt watching Ilvriss as he voted ‘yea’. One was his sister, the other a friend Ilvriss had grown to respect more and more after his trials at Liscor.

But could he trust any of them? Could he trust anyone? Az’kerash hung in the air, a shadow in the light. Ilvriss paused. He’d find the traitors. And build…

Not a shadow army. Nor a secret force. That was stupid. You couldn’t hide [Soldiers]. But you could hide a conspiracy. One of the people who knew the truth.

The motion passed. Ilvriss sighed as the Holders began to debate the terms of the plan, how much gold would go to him. Step one completed. All thanks to Erin Solstice. Ilvriss had a list he’d written down. It was so secret only two Drakes in the world knew about it. It was a list he was going to check and double check until he had enough people to march on that forest and burn it and the Necromancer to the ground.

And all that stood in his way were the other Walled Cities, the Antinium, the Humans—and other Drakes who might be traitors or just well-intentioned. Ilvriss sighed. But as he left the secret meeting, at least he had one thing.

Project Periss was underway.



—-



The next day, Erin Solstice woke up late. She was hungry, groggy, and the entire world wanted a piece of her.

Well…actually…the inn was quiet. No one had popped over to scream at her. Erin felt that was very disturbing. People wanted to see her, of course. Relc was there. Selys, Krshia—but there was no Zevara here to twist off Erin’s head and arrest Bird.

“What’s wrong with the world?”

Erin wondered aloud as she had a porridge breakfast. Mrsha sniffed at her bowl and agreed. Not worth stealing. She shook her head sadly at Erin and turned away.

“I suppose you’re not in trouble, then. Good. Can you please avoid making the inn detonate before I finish building it? Oh, and I’m going to get the Players of Celum later. They still haven’t come by! I think they haven’t heard the inn’s open and I forgot to tell them with all the drama.”

Lyonette passed by. Erin saw Mrsha nearly fall off her chair as she giggled silently. Erin stuck out her tongue at Lyonette’s back.

“You’re just jealous that I have all the fun. Just you wait! I’ve got new Skills and I’m gonna try them out! [Garden of Sanctuary], for one! Activate!”

Erin raised her hands. The [Princess] whirled.

“Not in here! Are you cr—”

She shielded her face. Mrsha ducked. Everyone in the [Grand Theatre] ducked. Erin’s eyes widened.

“Oops! I—”

She looked around. Nothing happened. Erin pointed at the walls.

“Um. [Garden of Sanctuary]! Go!“

She stared at the wall. Nothing happened. A magical garden did not appear, or whatever Erin was supposed to get. She stood up.

“[Garden]? Over here? Maybe this room overrides—nope?”

She tried the private dining room Lyonette had built—and then the hallway. Then upstairs. Workers constructing the hallways stared at Erin as she waved her hands. Mrsha followed Erin and shook her head.

“I know it’s not working. Well—maybe I need an actual garden first?”

Erin scratched her head. She went downstairs. Lyonette raised one brow.

“And you have a Skill that doesn’t work. I’m so incredibly jealous.”

“Hey! Rude! I’m…fairly certain it’ll work if I figure it out! And I can use my other Skill! Oh yeah. I can make fire now. Magical fire. Wanna see?”

“No. If you burn down this inn—”

“I’ll show you somewhere else! Jeeze!”

Erin sighed. Mrsha grinned, and even Lyonette had to smile.

“Is it useful?”

“Well, I was gonna cook with it or something. But I haven’t gotten it completely down. And I want to see what’s new in Liscor! If I’m not under arrest—there’s so much to do!”

Erin smiled and looked around. She saw Palt trot over.

“Oh, hey Smokey.”

“Please don’t call me that. I’m not even smoking anything. Erin, it’s a delight to have you back.”

The [Illusionist] smiled at Erin. She half-smiled back. But she could see Montressa and Beza behind them. Then Erin looked at Palt, seriously.

“Did you…deliver Isceil’s remains?”

The Centaur nodded gravely.

“We brought it in range of Fissival’s teleportation network. They…took the body. The family didn’t wish to speak to us.”

“Oh. I’m—”

Erin looked at the three [Mages]. Palt forced a smile.

“It’s a topic we’ve been over, believe me. Erin, I do need to talk to you. Not urgently, but the Ullsinoi faction—”

“Uh oh. This is their demands, right?”

Erin sighed. She propped her hands on her hips. The [Illusionist] waved his hands.

“Nothing major! But the world saw your inn. It’s an ongoing negotiation, Miss Solstice. Give and take! We help you, you help us. Believe me, mutually beneficial arrangements are something the Elusive Lot understands. Not like some factions—”

“Palt, we can hear you badmouthing us.”

Beza shouted at Palt. The Centaur flapped a hand at her. Montressa and Beza wanted to speak to Erin too. She sighed.

“Okay, what have I gotten myself into?”

“Nothing much for now! Just—if I could have your permission to write a few…signs…outside your door? And we could discuss people with the proper signs coming to your inn? No questions asked?”

“I knew it! You want me to smuggle drugs!”

Erin shouted. Relc’s head turned. Palt winced.

“I’m not asking for that! It’s just discretion—”

“Which Erin will have and we can discuss. She upholds her commitments.”

Lyonette stomped on Erin’s foot. The [Innkeeper] hopped around.

“This isn’t fair! I just wanted to come back to my nice, peaceful inn! Why do I have to…”

“Delivery for Miss Erin Solstice!”

The young woman turned. Fals stood behind Erin, a package in his hands. The City Runner looked slightly put-upon. But this is how it had started. With a package. The City Runner had been delayed by drama, Wyverns, and an absent [Innkeeper]. But nothing—not even Palt jockeying for position—was going to stop him.

“What’s this?”

“A delivery for you, Miss Erin. It came by City Runner, and I’ve been waiting to get it to you. I just need a seal, so I can confirm I got it to you. It’s slightly heavy.”

“Oh. Well—do I have a seal?”

“Here.”

Lyonette passed Erin one. She handed it to Fals. He grinned, relieved.

“Thank you. I just have to give it to you so I can swear it was delivered to you by truth spell!”

He handed the package to Erin. She took it.

“It is heavy! And square!”

She stared at the wrapped package. Something…flickered in her memory. Not like fire, but this was a familiar scene. She stared at Fals.

“Did you…who is it from?”

“Don’t know. But it came here through me, from the north. No idea who it is, but I’m fairly certain no one’s unwrapped it. They do that sometimes. Thanks. I’m going to head back to Celum. I’d love to chat, but you have a line. Can I drop by tomorrow?”

“Oh, sure—”

Erin saw there was indeed a line of people. Wanting to speak to her, to catch up, and so on. Fals grinned at Erin.

“It’s good to see you back, Miss Solstice.”

“Hey.”

Erin reached out and grabbed Fals’ arm. She smiled at him.

“You too. Don’t be a stranger!”

“And tell the Players that the inn’s open, please!”

Lyonette followed Fals out the doors and into the hallway. Erin turned to the package. Palt was eying it too, curiously. He glanced up at Erin.

“Anyone you know?”

“Maybe…”

Erin blinked at the package. It was heavy. And—she looked at it and remembered something similar. It was even wrapped the same way. Speculatively, Erin looked around the inn. Mrsha got up on two legs to sniff at the package, but she clearly detected nothing from the inside.

“Hey Lyonette. Where’s my chess board?”

“In your room. Mrsha kept swatting the pieces off it.”

“Oh, you—”

Erin saw Mrsha roll under a table. She turned.

“I’m just going to open this in my room. Be right back!”

“Aw! I want to see!”

Relc complained. He jostled Beza out of the way—the Minotauress tried to shove him back, but she missed. Olesm entered the inn.

“Is Erin here? Oh, Erin—I’m so glad you’re back. I wanted to say—”

“Back of the line!”

Selys, Beza, and six other pairs of hands dragged Olesm back. Relc was shoving with Palt. Erin laughed.

“Keep back! All of you! I’m going up to my room for one second! I’ll deal with you one by one!”

She headed for the stairs. Relc shouted at Erin’s back.

“If it explodes, just scream!”

Erin laughed, but she eyed the package a second time. She felt…well, she headed up the stairs.

Her room was new. Lyonette had made the bed, but Erin had already turned it a bit messy. Erin’s room…didn’t have much. Her clothes had been folded and put into a dresser—what ones Lyonette had salvaged from the inn. She had a few other possessions in the room as well.

Her belt pouches. A knife that had been sent through the magic door this morning by Lorent of all people. The [Sharpener] had identified the blade. A toothbrush in its stand. A few books Selys had gifted Erin. Oh, and…

A chess board. Erin hadn’t noticed it as she slept. But there it was. The pieces glowed, a ghostly colors in the morning’s light. Erin stared at them thoughtfully.

Palt had noticed the board when he’d visited Erin’s inn. He’d asked how much the board would cost and then gave her an estimate when she hadn’t known. And it was just a feeling…

Erin looked at the second package. It was bulky, more ovoid with that packaged phenomenon. But it was vaguely…square. And she had a feeling, as strong as instinct. As strong as memory.

Slowly, Erin reached for Pelt’s knife. She sawed at the bindings, then stared at the knife. The packaging was just plain, dark brown wrapping paper tied with string tightly. Or so she thought. But she couldn’t cut the wrapping. Even with Pelt’s knife. Erin frowned.

“Hm.”

She reached for the strings. It was easy—all you had to do was pull and the strings came apart. For her. It was a complex little bow, which was probably why no other Runner had gotten the package open for a look. That and their Runner’s code.

Probably. Erin pulled at the brown wrapping. It came away, layer by layer. It was bulkier than the package. It didn’t need so many layers. But the original shape…

“Aha.”

Erin knew. She saw the rectangular board before she completely unveiled it. But she knew, she knew. And when she saw the perfectly round, white and black stones, she knew she was right.

The go board sat in front of Erin, on the table in her room, next to the chess board and a comfortable chair. It was magical. One look and Erin knew it was a twin to the chess board.

The Go stones were black and white. But they had that translucent, ghostly quality. They were real—Erin could feel them. But they were a mirror. They were sticking to the board, despite having been carried around by runners all the way to Liscor. That must be a new feature; whoever had commissioned the board must have been tired of little Gnolls hurling the game pieces everywhere.

The stones were lined up around the edges of the board. Normally, they’d be in little pots, and Erin saw two had been included. She tossed them in now. White and black, two colors, ready to play.

A Go board. Enchanted. Erin looked at it. She’d known it was that, but…who had sent it? Fals hadn’t known. Palt, for all he was an [Illusionist], hadn’t seen through the wrapping. Mrsha hadn’t smelled anything.

But it was here. A game board just like the one Erin had been sent, so long ago. Erin remembered the excitement, the mystery over finding it. This time…she just stared.

“Who…what am I supposed to do with you?”

She knew the answer. Play me. The board called to her. So did the chess board. It was rearranged to the last move of the game. Erin had stopped playing after the Creler attack. The chess board had been recovered from the rubble, but she had left her mysterious opponent, who was as good as she was, alone.

She’d never asked. She’d wondered, but Erin had simply loved playing the game. Enough to not wonder who it was. Well, and she hadn’t known how to look without causing a fuss.

If it had arrived two weeks and a few days ago, Erin might have been delighted and played a few games right then and there if she’d had time. Surely, she’d have unwrapped it downstairs with all to see. But today, Erin stared at the board.

“Who are you? What happens next?”

Outside of her inn, she was certain, people were moving. They were thinking of what they’d seen. And they’d seen her. Even if she wasn’t aware of it yet, part of Erin was. The world had moved during the Wyvern attack. And events were starting to include her. That Human. Erin Solstice. Palt was only the start.

“I just wanted a vacation. I wanted it to be simple.”

Erin Solstice looked at the board. She looked up. So much was going to happen. She couldn’t play the same game like she had last year. She looked at the chess board and shook her head.

Here was the thing. Erin wasn’t a good Go player. She was…good. Probably better than most people in her world. Because she practiced and knew the game. But she wasn’t one of the best at it. And she was at chess. That was the truth of it.

But Go was different. Some people said more complex, and Erin was willing to admit it was in some ways. She liked chess more, but Erin liked strategy games on the board, like this. She stared at the board.

All you had to do was place a stone. Black stones went first in Go, unlike chess. And when Erin put down a stone, usually in the corners, she’d wait for the opponent to place a stone. Her goal was to take as much territory—the squares on the board—as possible. Her opponent would try to box her in, and thus take her stones.

It was a game about territory, control. Just like chess. Or shogi. Or any other game Erin knew. Control, pieces on the board—each game was different and the same.

“Erin! I’m bored! I want pasta!”

Relc shouted up at Erin. She heard more voices from downstairs. Erin looked at the board.

The thing about Go—the thing about any game like this—was that two people had to play. You could play against yourself of course, but one person had to start. Then the other could lead. Whoever had sent her the board had waited. Waited for her to continue their game of chess, to place the stone on the Go board.

If Erin waited forever, neither game would continue. But you couldn’t do that. There were rules. Time limit, etiquette towards other players…and if she waited too long here, Relc would storm up the stairs.

You had to move. You had to keep moving, even if you didn’t know what was the right thing to do. Erin felt the world moving, felt the invisible pieces landing around her. She was just a pawn on someone else’s board, the grand board of the world. She couldn’t see the hand that moved her. Or where she was pushing herself.

But right now she had a choice. Erin squatted by the board. It was summer. She listened to Relc shouting for pasta. Looked out the window at the Floodplains, listened to the far-off sounds of events taking shape, people making plans—and she made her move.

Erin Solstice slowly picked up a piece and put it on the go board. The black stone glittered in the sun, magical and ghostly. Erin Solstice looked at it. She nodded.

“4-4 . Classic.”

The upper left corner of the board had a single black stone. Waiting for another player to move. Somewhere, Erin’s opponent would surely see it in time and play their move. Erin knew that. And they’d play a great game, probably.

“Probably.”

Erin Solstice looked at the black stones in her bowl. And slowly, carefully, she picked up a second stone. She looked at it, and then she broke the rules.

A second black stone joined the first. It wasn’t even on the intersections on the lines! Erin Solstice looked at the second black stone, standing in defiance of the rules of the game, and nodded. She picked up another stone. And then another.

It took the young woman only a minute to finish her placement. The black stones clicked onto the board as she placed them delicately, trying to remember how to hold them just right. There was an art to it. She wasn’t good at Go, and right now she’d have been expelled from any match in history.

She was placing stones. Black ones, without waiting for her opponent. The white stones didn’t even stir in their bowl as Erin finished placing hers. She studied the board, and then stood.

“I’m coming, Relc! Stop screaming!”

She shouted back down as she opened the door to her room. Erin hurried down the stairs, and rejoined her inn. She shouted, catching up with friends, asking questions—and forgot about the new board sitting in her room.

Just for a moment. But she’d come back. And the stones placed on the board, in defiance of the game, were also waiting for her opponent. Erin Solstice had cheated. She hadn’t placed one, or two, but almost all of them. They didn’t stay on the lines. Instead, they spelled out something. A message. Waiting. And in time, someone saw it. A little message, written on a tiny Go board.



who r u?



And the world changed.





Interlude – Queens and Dragons


It had been a long time. Long, for her. But oh, so short as well.

She had been newly formed when she left Rhir. And though decades had passed since that fateful day, when the hope of the Antinium had died at sea, she was still…how old?

Antinium did not care. Nor did the Free Queen of the Antinium measure such things. Time, for Antinium, should not matter. They had discovered a way to break free of age, even of death itself. Antinium bodies could be rejuvenated, and even their spirits put into new vessels.

At least, if they remembered it. The Free Queen felt every inch of her aging, expanded form some days. Experimental techniques, half-remembered, applied incorrectly to allow the Queens to manually birth once more, to accommodate their straining flesh and chitin. All of it had taken its toll.

She was…the Free Queen calculated. At least four decades old.

At least. But also, ‘only’. The Free Queen could remember Queens who had left Rhir twice as old, and they hadn’t even been as old as Bessachidia, the Shaper Queen who had been oldest and greatest of the living Antinium at creation.

If she had been alive, the Antinium would have taken Izril. Even if she alone had been there. She would have overrun the Walled Cities within a decade at most. No, to be fair—two decades. And even if she’d stumbled, she’d have brought at least one Walled City down already.

But after three decades, the Antinium were stalemated. And the Queens were aging, and no more were being made. Age, the issue of reforming bodies, creating new Queens, all of it would have been easy to Bessachidia. The Free Queen knew this, because she had learned from Bessachidia, along with the Silent Queen.

But she had died in the water. Along with so many Centenium. And those who had remained, the other Queens—they had died too, establishing a foothold in this continent. Three Centenium had perished, unable to be revived. Nine Queens as well. Each one a loss that could not be recovered from. Klbkch had lost his form.

Now six remained. Six, and three Centenium, one weakened from his days of glory. This is what the Free Queen dwelled on, when she did not eat, or when she was not busy. The haunting, clawing thoughts.

She was old. Despite being young. For she had labored in ways the Antinium of Rhir would have never imagined. And—the Free Queen could see it now. How she had despaired. How the other Queens despaired, had fragmented into their old Hives as if they were the primitive Antinium, in the days before the First Queen had unified them, forged them into what the Antinium were.

Despair, decay. Despondence. Something else that started with ‘D’. The Free Queen even thought in the language of the other races of the world, not in the pure clicking tones the Antinium used. There was no one to speak it with, besides Klbkch anyways. The new Workers and Soldiers had been created with the language of this continent.

So she despaired. An eternal tale, in Liscor, pursuing a dream even the other Queens had abandoned. That was how it was and had been.

Until today. The Free Queen had seen a dream. The Antinium she’d let go, that could have saved their race if she had the strength to tear him apart and kill the closest thing to True Antinium—Bird. She had seen him standing on the walls of Pallass.

What shock! What horror. And—what glory. The Free Queen still remembered it. And it had changed everything. Now, she sat in her chambers and heard the tones of the Antinium language again.

“You disobeyed my orders! There were to be no Prognugators made! This is a violation of my command! Xevccha! Free Queen, an explanation is demanded!”

The invective in their language—it contained elements no Human could even write, clicks and piercing sounds only an Antinium voice could make—made the Free Queen look up.

The Grand Queen stared at her from the mirror. The huge Antinium Queen who led the remaining Hives on Izril was shaking with fury. The Free Queen gathered her thoughts.

“Bird is not a Prognugator, my Queen. That was a tactical lie used—”

“It has a name! So it names itself! It threatened war, war! Am I understanding you correctly? One of your Antinium lied to start a war? Insolence! Madness!”

The other Queen was shouting at the Free Queen in their language. That meant she didn’t use the royal ‘we’ and ‘our’ she had adopted. She was doing it to chastise the Free Queen, but all it did was make the other Antinium nostalgic. She bowed her head slightly, another learned gesture. Her antennae waved, signaling with her voice.

“It is a grave mistake, my Queen. But I repeat: Bird is not a Prognugator. He is part of the experimental Antinium program—”

“It sounds like the Prognugator-creation system! My authority—”

The Free Queen’s mandibles twitched. She had been harangued for the last hour and she was growing tired of it.

“My Queen. The Individual and Autonomous Antinium are not Prognugators. They do not require the expenditure of Antinium lives for formation.”

Unlike your wasteful creations. The Free Queen could see them lined up. Nearly two dozen Prognugators, or as the Grand Queen had styled them, the Custodium. As if they were as good as Centenium.

What a waste of resources. Each one wore the long swords on each hip, copies of Klbkch’s fighting style. But it was just enhanced chitin, not Klbkch’s swords which had been made in Rhir. And perhaps they could fight like no other Antinium—and level. But the waste. Even in Rhir, Prognugators were expensive to make.

The Free Queen saw the Grand Queen shifting restlessly. Her antennae, feelers, posture, and mandibles all spoke her ire to the Free Queen. But the Grand Queen was far too far away to discipline the Free Queen. And—the Free Queen looked at the one speck of color amid the brown and black shells.

Blue, azure, beautiful as the day she’d been made. And from her eyes shone pure, dancing colors. Xrn, the Small Queen, the last of the three Centenium of Izril, was smiling. Her eyes shone with dancing pink and yellow—and a hint of orange mischief. But they shone.

“My Queen. The Free Queen has given her response. This was clearly an error. An appraisal should be made of the Free Hive, but I am sure the Free Queen must explain the incident to the Liscorian government.”

Xrn’s voice reached the Grand Queen. The huge Antinium stared down at Xrn, then glared at the Free Queen. She switched back to the common tongue.

“The Drakes and Gnolls must be negotiated with? Why did you not inform us earlier?”

“My duty is to you, my Queen. I shall begin negotiations immediately if you have no further words for me.”

The Free Queen lied smoothly, grateful for Xrn’s lie. The Grand Queen didn’t understand other species. None of the other Queens did. At least the Free Queen had Klbkch to explain to her. She could see through his eyes and she understood a bit more. Liscor’s Council had demanded nothing of her—Klbkch had no doubt taken care of it. But the Grand Queen believed.

“Very well. Go. Placate this other ruling body. But your actions will have consequences! The—”

She broke off. The Grand Queen had probably been intending to censure the supply of resources sent to the Free Hive. Or demand a higher tribute. But the Free Antinium had been in exile for nearly a decade. The Free Queen almost raised her mandibles in a smile. Almost. The long struggle alone with Klbkch had been worth it for this moment.

“—This matter is not over. Xrn, we shall discuss.”

“Yes my Queen. Thank you for your—”

The Grand Queen turned away and the magical image of her in the mirror disappeared. The Free Queen stared at the blank mirror.

“Krxsching…Grand Queen? Undeserved, now. Garry.”

“On the way, my Queen.”

An Antinium Worker was already hurrying out of his kitchen with a serving cart filled with morsels. The Free Queen sighed, happy her encounter with the Grand Queen was over. Honestly, the other Antinium’s rage wasn’t entirely misplaced. It had been near-disastrous, Bird’s incident. The Hives had nearly gone to war over his lie. The Free Queen wondered if Klbkch was disciplining Bird. She wondered if he had been hurt.

What strange new emotions! What a strange change had come over the Hive. The Queen stared down as Garry offered her up a bowl. It was tiny to her, but huge, a giant serving bowl he needed all four arms for.

“What is this?”

“Acid flies, my Queen. I have purchased them from Miss Lyonette.”

“Ah.”

The Free Queen’s mandibles opened wide in delight. She took the bowl and crunched the tiny little morsels, savoring the taste. She nodded as Garry stepped back.

“You have done well, Garry.”

“Thank you, my Queen!”

The [Cook] was ecstatic. The Free Queen stared at him for a second. She would never have deigned to acknowledge his presence a little while ago. But now—she talked with him. Even thanked him.

“…Are there more?”

“Yes, my Queen. But there is a limited supply. I have been attempting to secure more, but acid-flies are difficult to acquire. In the meantime, I have stretched what I have—this is a pot of noodles. I have hand-crafted the dough and noodles extra-large. I recall you expressing the desire to eat them, rather than the much smaller variety—they are infused with an acid-fly broth and I have done some work with the presentation—”

Another platter. The Free Queen stared at the pasta, seeing how Garry had arranged it with all his toppings to create a colorful masterpiece, rather than the huge vats he fed her. She was growing fond of this appreciation of food before it was imbibed.

“Good. Good. This is good, Garry. The…noodles…are larger.”

“And they will not bother you, my Queen?”

“The Queens are not susceptible to products of wheat. That was an error in the process of creating Antinium. If I had the time, I would correct it, but it was unnecessary until now. Did you say a broth? How is it in these noodles?”

“Ah, they were boiled in it. The broth is very flavorful, my Queen. I did not think it fit for you, but it has received good reviews among my taste testers—it is not nourishing, but it is tasty.”

“Bring some.”

The Free Queen saw Garry hurry into her kitchen. She relaxed, regarding the plate of spaghetti. And the large, large pots Garry had made to sate her appetite. Now, this was better. Yes—

“The issue of wheat-based nutrition was deemed a sufficient oversight in the creation of the first Soldier/Worker prototypes. You yourself agreed. It was not a flaw at the time.”

The Free Queen jumped. Well, not literally. But she did drop her plate. Garry hurried out at the crash and faltered.

The magical mirror that the Free Queen had recently been delivered was glowing again. But instead of the Grand Queen—Garry and the Free Queen saw a shadowed cavern. A dark form, moving amid the shade of her hive.

The Silent Queen had always been quiet. But now she had embraced her Hive’s perceived role. And she’d scared the daylights out of the Free Queen—who had not seen daylight herself in over a decade. The Free Queen looked around. Put out, she stared at her food lying in the dirt that Garry had worked so hard on, then at the Silent Queen.

“Silent Queen. Greetings. What is the meaning of your communication? I have not received one since the siege at Liscor.”

The Silent Queen ignored the question. Her antennae waved restlessly as she opened and closed her mandibles. She was smallest of the Queens, and most timid, despite her genius at shaping Antinium. Normally she was quiet, except in matters that regarded shaping Antinium. But today she was agitated.

“Lack of proper digestive fluids was not an oversight. You claimed to be redesigning the Soldier/Worker forms. Is this another aberrative innovation you have not shared with the other Hives? That is in violation of the Grand Queen’s orders.”

“I do not understand—”

The Free Queen stared blankly at the Silent Queen. Then she realized the other Queen had been listening in.

“—That was a passing thought. Silent Queen, as the Grand Queen ordered, I have been forbidden from experimenting with new Antinium forms.”

But she’d done it anyways, with Klbkch and Yellow Splatters. She’d just lacked the resources the other Queens had to engineer their new Antinium. The Silent Queen stared at the Free Queen.

“I have witnessed your new Prognugator. Optical enhancements? Muscular coordination? You did not communicate your breakthrough. I have shared all—all improvements to base Worker/Soldier forms.”

“Bird? He is not a Prognugator. Silent Queen, I have been chastised by the Grand Queen, but that incident was an accident—”

The Silent Queen stared at the Free Queen. She glanced around and the Free Queen saw the darkness rustle. The Silent Queen’s camouflaged attendants moved, and the darkness shifted.

“If you do not wish to share the designs of your new Bird-Prognugator, perhaps a trade can be effected? I did not wish to offend with the delegation. Now a passageway has been effected, I will send a Prognugator. Two. We must communicate. The evolution of the Antinium cannot be personal, Free Queen. Infighting has only weakened the other Hives.”

The Free Queen was very confused. And she was certain the Silent Queen was misunderstanding basically everything.

“Infighting? Silent Queen, as I said to the Grand Queen—”

The other Queen twitched.

“Yes. Yes. Your communication of ordinary Worker slaying Wyverns with physical manipulation of a bow is understood. I will send a Prognugator. Would that be acceptable?”

She was very agitated. The Free Queen remembered—they had been the students of Bessachidia, and thus responsible for remaking the Antinium Workers and Soldiers. The Silent Queen had been better, which was hard to admit, but she had been as conscious of her inability as the Free Queen compared to a proper Shaper Queen. Now…what was she thinking?

The Free Queen was still a Queen. Her mind could perform on multiple levels, manage a Hive and thousands of Antinium at once. She had been designed for it. Now, her multiple levels of consideration made her open her mandibles slowly.

“I…will accept an envoy. And I regard the advancement of the Antinium as vital, Silent Queen. Let us discuss advancements.”

The other Queen relaxed visibly.

“Yes. This conversation is private, of course. Your Bird-Individual is not a Prognugator.”

“He is not.”

“I shall send a Prognugator. And put forward your case before the Grand Queen. She is angry. Let us converse then.”

The link cut. The Free Queen stared at the mirror, then at Garry. She wanted to ask, what was that? Infighting? But she felt like she knew. It had been a decade since she’d left the Hives, and even then she’d been the outcast. Without her…the Silent Queen thought she was withholding some new experimental designs that had allowed Bird to hit the Wyverns? And she’d implied that she had—

Before the Free Queen could analyze the situation, the mirror glowed again. Garry, trying to put the noodles onto another plate, scurried back. The Free Queen saw another Queen sitting and staring at her.

“Is this a challenge, Free Queen? My Flying Antinium are designed for aerial superiority. What is the purpose of your Bird-creation?”

The Flying Queen was agitated. Her Hive, always a chaos of Antinium moving around her, was in uproar. The Free Queen saw her winged attendants and Antinium buzzing, moving around the Queen at breakneck pace. The Free Queen stared as the Flying Queen restlessly rubbed her feelers together.

“It is my work you are jeopardizing. What is the purpose? No—ranged Antinium? Is this an overture to the Armored Antinium? The Grand Queen is attempting to punish you, you know. We are in communication. Please explain. Also—what is that? That is food. Why is it so colorful? Are you attempting a new nutritional mix?”

Her words spilled over each other. The Free Queen didn’t even have a chance to get in a word edgewise until the Flying Queen stopped. But that was good. It gave the Free Queen a chance to think.

Unlike the Silent Queen’s conversation, this time the Free Queen sat back in her chambers. She waved at Garry to bring her more food. And she controlled her antennae, waving them intentionally as she spoke.

“Ah, yes. Bird. He is one Individual, Flying Queen. Not an attempt to jeopardize your Hive at all. This? This is food, developed by another Individual. Garry, present yourself.”

“My—I greet you, Flying Queen.”

Garry shivered forwards. The Flying Queen stared at him.

“Not an attempt to replace my Hive’s capabilities? Intellectual. But the purpose of your defiance to the Grand Queen?”

“Accidental. Truly.”

“Naturally.”

The other Queen’s antennae were beginning to wave in sync with the Free Queen as she calmed down. The Free Queen was thinking faster and faster. Three of six. They were probably waiting for the mirrors to stop being used. What should she say to…the Armored Queen was one thing, but the Twisted Queen disturbed the Free Queen. Even so—

“Let us discuss my Individual project, Flying Queen. The Grand Queen has declared some merit. But if you would consider discussing the matter further…”

“The tunnel is completed, or so Pivr tells me. Let us talk. The Armored Queen has sent Prognugators? Why were more not sent from the Flying Antinium first? We will bring resources. Tell me about your new capabilities. More. I was not told of your Hive’s superiority in my report.”

“Well, there have been advancements. By the way, Garry’s food has taste. It is better than even raw food for taste. Far better than celdes-paste. If you send a Prognugator, I will deliver some to you.”

“Really?”

The Free Queen looked at Garry. He stared up at her, mandibles agape. The Free Queen wanted to open her mandibles wider and higher than she had in recent memory.

“What do the Flying Antinium wish to discuss, Flying Queen? Privately. The Free Hive has something to offer. If the discussion is amiable.”

Now, the Free Queen understood. The other Queens were waiting to talk to her. And they’d all seen Bird. And misunderstood. But she didn’t need to correct them, even if they believed. After a decade of suffering in neglect, the other Hives were sitting up and looking at the Free Antinium. Some warily, some approving.

Either way, if the Free Antinium’s value were a stock, it had broken through the glass ceiling, through the roof of the Antinium stock exchange, and was now busy constructing a satellite bombardment laser in orbit.

The two Queens began to chat. And the Free Queen was focused—and despairing still. This was good for her Hive. Terrible for her people. The Antinium were not united any longer. If Bessachidia had lived—

The Grand Queen was not the same as the First Queen had been. Disloyalty in the other Queens was a sign. She had to speak to Klbkch.



—-



The Walled City of Manus was quiet after this morning. The citizenry still didn’t know what had caused a silent but perceptible panic in the ranks of their elite. The inner keep in the heart of Manus had been filled with officers and commanders. But—ironically—news was just spreading.

There had been an attack in Pallass? And it had been fought off? What had gone on? Many had just heard the [Messages] being sent from Pallass, and there had only been a few, briefly reporting the battle.

They hadn’t seen the spectacle. And word was only now trickling down to them. The world hadn’t yet faced full-on mass media consumption. Anyways, it had been the inner war councils of Manus who called the shots, not some democracy.

They were already finished for the day when the Drake with beautiful teal scales strode out of the inner keep. She sighed, flexing her wings and turning her head in the sunlight. Those who saw her, Gnolls or Drakes, had to pause to stare.

Wall Lady Rafaema was young, in the prime of her life, and beautiful. She stuck in the memory of anyone who saw her. She was as famous in her way as Spearmaster Lulv. Not in experience; she was young, and she’d grown up in Manus. Well, she’d come from abroad—she’d entered the city when she was what, sixteen? No one quite knew where she hailed from, but her ancestry had been certified. She was an inheritor of the original founders of Manus. That was obvious.

Rafaema had both wings and the ability to breathe magical energy. Her power was lightning, and people said her manifestation of the Oldblood was the strongest in living memory. As strong as Luciva Skybreath, the Dragonspeaker of Manus. Everyone knew that Rafaema was going to be a [General], or a [Commander] when she enlisted. She certainly trained enough in the practice courts each day.

Oh, and she was being courted by half of Manus’ eligible males. The other half had been rejected soundly, and Rafaema swatted suitors like flies each week. Now, the Drake sighed as she looked about.

She was a Dragon, by the way. Although that was the kind of secret that only a few people knew. Like Manus’ inner war council. Even some of the [Generals] and trusted commanders had no idea of whom Rafaema was. Like everyone else, they thought she was a gifted young Drake, politically kept from fighting on the front lines due to a complicated family dynamic.

And that was what they’d continue to believe, as Rafaema got older. Until she died or—had an accident in her forties. And then some new, young Drake, probably with different features, an entirely different backstory, would appear.

Probably not as beautiful this time. And she’d have to remove her wings. Rafaema sighed. If she could, she’d make the next ‘her’ be male. It would at least keep one kind of suitor away. And that pest. She sighed. As she walked across Manus’ inner walls—the Walled City had two layers of walls—she felt someone coming up behind her.

“Then again, pests accumulate no matter what I do.”

“Lady Rafaema. Pest number one, at your service.”

A Gnoll caught up to Rafaema. He wore casual clothes—but full-body, not the light clothing Gnolls usually preferred, that left their fur exposed. He walked with an easy stroll, unlike the military [Soldiers] that Manus was famous for. He was offering Rafaema a flower, much to the disgust of the other males who were planning on the same. Rafaema eyed the green petals, took the flower—and tossed it over the wall.

It fell, and Rafaema stared across Manus. The inner walls of Manus contained a city, but the outer walls lay distant.

And below. Manus had been built so that anyone who finally claimed the star-shaped city’s walls, which provided overlapping fire, combined with outward slanting walls that made putting a ladder up impossible—machicolations—every conceivable defense designed to give an attacking force a bad time, they’d celebrate…

Only to realize Manus had a set of inner walls and it had been built such that the inner walls had both height and positioning on the outer walls. Manus could literally bombard anyone who took the outer walls into oblivion and then retake their defenses. And if, if you took the inner walls, you still had a city full of choke points and fortifications designed to favor the defender against impossible odds.

It was the kind of city that begged people to attack it. And sure enough, Manus was called the City of War not because it had a strong economy or agriculture or industry, but because it was good at one thing. And it bordered the Antinium Hives—in fact, it was one of the reasons they’d failed to expand in both wars.

But as a result, Manus had to use space wisely. Rafaema threw the suitor’s flower over the inner walls and watched it fall down the hill on which the inner city was built. Terraced farms were being worked there, and Rafaema watched the flower fall amid the crops being busily tended to.

“Miss Rafaema, you wound my heart! I searched for that for ages. Won’t you at least consider it a moment?”

The Gnoll clutched at his heart, gesturing imploringly at Rafaema. She ignored him; he was a picture of one of the many suitors she got. This one was particularly insistent, one of the ones who refused to give up after she rebuffed him. She looked around. No one was within earshot and anyone watching them would assume this was another suitor wasting Rafaema’s time.

“You can drop the act now.”

The Gnoll paused halfway down towards bending a knee. He straightened; he’d already known they were alone, Rafaema guessed. The Gnoll nodded at her.

“Lady Sailwing.”

“Don’t call me that. I barely remember my last names anymore.”

Rafaema snapped. The Gnoll nodded.

“As you wish, Lady Rafaema.”

He’d dropped his act. Now, he stood like a [Soldier]. Rafaema had chosen an empty stretch of Manus to walk through; she knew the patrol routes by heart, and which parts of the city got empty when. This was her city after all. She had lived here all her life.

“Stop following me.”

“You know I can’t do that, Lady Rafaema.”

The Gnoll walked after Rafaema. He turned his head now and then, just as if he were looking around, but Rafaema knew he saw everything. The Gnoll wasn’t tall or short, and he had a terribly nondescript way about him. Rafaema was sure it was a Skill. When he wasn’t acting, he was just…bland.

And terribly efficient. Terribly so. Rafaema was used to the efficient people who followed her around wherever she went. At least he was open about it. And he was the latest in the line of her…protectors.

“You’re new.”

“And you spotted me within a second of me meeting you. My disguise needs work. I apologize, Lady.”

“Name?”

“Ferris Thycarl.”

No rank, no affiliation. Rafaema didn’t ask further. She knew what he was. People liked to joke that Manus was full of war-minded idiots, but the training schools in the City of War produced more than just officers and [Strategists]. Some, like Ferris, performed duties in secret. But he had to be good, if he knew who she was.

The Gnoll looked sideways at Rafaema. He still looked innocuous as any Gnoll. Except for one thing.

“May I ask how you picked up on my identity, Lady Rafaema?”

She snorted and opened her wings restlessly, feeling the breeze catch on them. She enjoyed having wings. Other Drake forms were so…restrictive.

“You all look the same to me. Your eyes give you away. Your lot always stares the first time you see me.”

“Ah. Not in a love struck way?”

“Love struck suitors stare at other things.”

Ferris had to grin at that. He bowed, slightly.

“At your service then, Lady Rafaema. If you want me to present myself some other way—”

“What happened to the last one? The female Drake.”

He paused.

“Reassigned, Lady Rafaema. If you have an issue with my presence—”

“They’ll get me a new one. Anyways, I wanted you to talk to me which is why I left the note. So—talk. Do you know what’s going on?”

The Gnoll who called himself Ferris paused. He was smart, because he didn’t waste time.

“I’m not aware of the full scope of Manus’ decisions, but I’m aware of the Pallass situation. May I ask what the war council decided?”

“They’re going to approach the other Walled Cities for joint funding on some operations against the Hives. And they want to look into Liscor. Some of your friends will be heading there. They’re probably already being briefed.”

“Ah.”

That was all Ferris said. No ‘is that wise?’ or ‘what do you think?’. He was trained not to ask those questions. If he had an opinion…

“And you wished to see me, Lady Rafaema, because…?”

“How much do you report to your superiors, Ferris? I remember one of your people said you have to make a weekly report on how I’m feeling. And of course, you’re the one responsible for me. Rather than a team. Because I’m old enough not to need one.”

Rafaema’s tone was pleasant, but if you looked at her eyes, you would notice two things. That Rafaema had two differently-colored pupils. Heterochromia, the phenomenon was called. Also—that said eyes were glinting dangerously.

Ferris paused. He thought about his reply and went for the truth. Which was wise—Rafaema could cast spells as well as many [Mages] and she’d mastered [Detect Lies] long ago.

“I’m trusted enough to make my own decisions, Lady Rafaema. I do make a weekly report. If you have any desires…you need only ask me.”

“And you’ll pass it along.”

“Not if it’s an easy request. I am here to serve, Lady Rafaema.”

“And if I said I wanted to leave Manus today?”

Ferris’ gaze flickered.

“I’d have to ask my superiors, Lady Rafaema. That’s not within my power to grant.”

Silence. He was eying her. Rafaema, like many of Manus’ officers, wore a sword at her side. But the Gnoll didn’t look frightened, and Rafaema guessed he was as dangerous without weapons as with whatever secret weapons he had on him. But she was unique.

“But you are new. How much did they tell you about me? Everything? Did they tell you about Kelis? Or Amessia?”

The Gnoll didn’t blink. He smiled politely.

“They are mandatory case-studies now, Lady Rafaema. If you have an objection to me—”

“I haven’t decided yet. Some of you annoy me. Like your predecessor.”

Rafaema’s eyes glinted. Ferris nodded. Keeping her happy was an important job. He’d been chosen for it.

“So how much do you know? Have you read my file? All of it? It’s not that well hidden. If you know to look for it.”

Ferris sighed through his nose. He straightened, adopting a military pose for a moment as he clasped his paws behind his back.

“I know everything, Lady Rafaema.”

She paused. Rafaema went to the battlements overlooking Manus. She stood there, on the inner walls. Then she looked suddenly at Ferris.

“How old am I? I forget.”

“A hundred and twenty three, Lady Rafaema.”

“Huh.”

She hadn’t known that. She’d thought she was around a hundred and eighteen. But there it was.

Rafaema was over a hundred years old. Old, for any species in the world. Only half-Elves could face that so easily. But Rafaema had lived it. A hundred and twenty three years of…growing up.

“It doesn’t feel so long. But I’ve stopped taking naps. When was the last one?”

“Twenty seven years ago, Lady Rafaema. If you are feeling—”

“No. Shut up.”

The Gnoll fell silent obediently. Rafaema stared over her city. And for a moment, the young, vibrant Drake looked a bit lost. She looked like someone in her early twenties. And that was accurate. She liked looking how she felt. Well, she might be old, even for this appearance.

“Sleeping…bothers me. Not regular sleep. I—didn’t I sleep for seventeen years one time? And—how long was the other time?”

“Nine years. Among other periods. Your latest periods of slumber have grown shorter, Lady Rafaema. It is a natural—”

He shut up as Rafaema looked at him.

“Do your books tell you about Dragonspeaker Telimer, Ferris?”

“Yes, Lady Rafaema.”

She was in a bad mood. Ferris’ fur tried to stand up on end. Rafaema stared across her city, moodily. There was an outer city as well; Manus’ outer walls had only been taken twice. The Walled City was huge. But it felt small to her.

“It took me four decades to figure it out. Four decades. I know I was a fool when I was that small, but I didn’t understand. They kept putting me back to sleep, and I kept waking up and wondering where everyone went. I didn’t understand it until I was—forty. I kept thinking they were out there somewhere. In another Walled City.”

“The…records indicate that it was a mistake to do so, Lady Rafaema. The Dragonspeaker thought—”

Rafaema looked at Ferris and he went quiet. She was the image of a Drake. If you stared at her shadow, it was just her. She wasn’t concealing anything. Her body was the size of a Drake. But the magic only went so far. Her eyes sparked.

“I didn’t step outside the keep until I was fifty years old. And when I did, they put an entire army on watching me. I like Manus, Ferris. I really do. I know how much I owe the city…did they tell you what I did for my eightieth birthday?”

“Oh yes.”

Ferris was watching her now. Rafaema grinned. She had a toothy, perfect smile.

“How good are you, Ferris? Exact level and class?”

“I couldn’t say, Lady.”

“Do you think that if you tried, you could get away before I threw you off the walls? I don’t have levels, but I’m still me.”

The Gnoll wasn’t sweating. Which was really impressive at this point. He looked past Rafaema.

“I believe I’d survive that. Lady Rafaema, if you dislike my presence—”

“I’m thinking about it.”

Moodily, Rafaema turned back to the view. Her tail was lashing the stones. Ferris wondered if the transformation magic was bothering her. He looked at Rafaema.

In previous generations, the Dragonspeakers had dealt with their sacred charge in different ways. Some had made mistakes. Others had done well. But the growing Dragon entrusted to them had never been an easy charge. She had been a child. Intelligent, but a child for decades. And her wrath on finding she’d been deceived was written in the history books.

But that was the thing. At age eighty, Rafaema had thrown what could only be described as the worst case of adolescence in Manus’ entire history. But she had been…a teen.

Dragons were considered young adults, able to strike out on their own when they were two hundred years old. They were immortal, able to live forever, gifted with more innate magical ability than any [Mage], far beyond that of even half-Elves. Their scales could deflect arrows. They could fly, transform, and had a diversity of abilities second to no species in this world.

But they paid a price for their power. And it was only in one thing: they gave birth to precious few. And their young aged so, so very slowly. And for that reason alone, there were almost no Dragons left. There were rumors, and people knew there were Dragons. Somewhere.

That was what they said. But if you were trusted, trusted beyond reproach, you could go into a vault only the Dragonspeaker and a handful of others knew about. Like Ferris, who was the best out of every graduate in his academy and whose loyalty and ability had been tested to a degree not even Manus’ [Generals] were expected to meet. He had read the document.

There were only two in all of Izril. Only two left. And one of them was a moody young…woman. After a century and a quarter of waiting.

Part of that century, actually, a lot, had been sleeping. It had terrified the scales off the first Dragonspeaker when the baby Dragon had slept for a decade the first time. But apparently Dragons slept for long periods if they needed to.

Their bodies were masterworks of perfection. Rafaema might have been transformed, but she kept her strength, speed, and toughness. She could probably throw Ferris a long ways if he let her catch him. She didn’t need Skills, and in fact, it was just as well that she couldn’t level. If Dragons had been able to level, they’d have ruled the world forever.

Whatever was bothering Rafaema, she hadn’t shown it in the war council. Ferris was aware of the decisions that Dragonspeaker Luciva and the others had settled on. Rafaema had been part of those discussions, and a respected voice since the war council knew who she was. They listened to her now. But when all was said and done, Rafaema was still their ward, their charge that they had faithfully kept safe for generations until she was ready.

The hope of Dragons and Drakes, known only to two Walled Cities, was staring blankly ahead. Ferris waited. One of the reasons he’d been chosen was because he was very good at his job. The other was his personality. No one wanted a disaster like Kelis, or Amessia again. Those two agents who’d been assigned to Rafaema fifty and thirty years ago had nearly caused disaster.

Managing Rafaema’s mood was…tricky. She’d been angry ever since her friend, Dragonspeaker Luciva’s daughter had died. Rafaema made few friends to begin with. She had once been a social child, apparently. But Ferris had read that she’d made fewer and fewer friends with each decade.

That too, had concerned previous Dragonspeakers. Ferris had read their thoughts and the times when Rafaema had reacted to the deaths of her friends over decades. Her entire history was in a book in the vault where she had been protected as an egg.

“You know, even though I didn’t think about it for a long time, Izril doesn’t really change. It’s been over a hundred years and I’ve seen the Humans attack, lose, win, the Walled Cities fight—they nearly took Fissival one time, you know? Pallass. We had wars with the Gnolls, a war with Baleros—I think. Even the King of Destruction. But it never really changed to me.”

Ferris was silent. Rafaema went on.

“The King of Destruction never made it past Zeres. The Goblin King scared everyone, but there was the other one. The Hundred Days one, in Terandria. All of that was the same. To me. I’ve seen it all before. But the Antinium? They’re new.”

She glanced at the Gnoll. Rafaema did train in the practice courts. She was rated highly with a blade, even if she pretended to use Skills. Ferris had heard that Spearmaster Lulv was teaching her to use a spear against the others, who wanted Rafaema to use a sword.

A Dragon with a sword. But since she wore her transformed body, it made sense to let Rafaema learn to use a weapon. The young Dragon shook her head.

“Does your book talk about when I was…ninety, Ferris? Right up until the Antinium arrived?”

“Yes, Lady Rafaema.”

The Dragonspeaker at that time had not been happy. Rafaema had, among other things, entered into a number of relationships, tried almost every illicit substance she could find, and caused a lot of trouble for her wardens. But Dragons couldn’t mate with lesser species. Well—bear offspring.

Rafaema must have read the unspoken words crossing Ferris’ mind. Her eyes narrowed.

“I was lazy. But when the Antinium attacked—they sieged Manus. Even Manus. I wasn’t allowed to fight. Not in the first war, or the second. So I started training. Do you know how long it’s been?”

“Two decades.”

“Yes. But I don’t level. But I trained because I realized the Antinium are a threat. The war council decided to send spies to Liscor. To figure out what’s going on. We thought the Hive there was planning to take over Liscor. But instead—there was that one. Bird. The Hunter. But that’s not what I care about. I want to know about the Human.”

Ah. She’d gotten to the same topic Ferris had seen underlined in a dozen reports. The Human.

“If you want me to find you a summary—”

“I’ve read the summary. It’s all Wyvern crap. A Human who appeared in Liscor. No one knows her nation of origin. She employs Hobgoblins. She’s an [Innkeeper] who led a Goblin army against the Goblin Lord. She’s got ties to the Antinium. She has bear teeth. She can spit blood, arm-wrestle Minotaurs, and she runs about barefoot! I saw her in the battle with the moths. Why doesn’t anyone know about her?”

The Gnoll nodded slightly.

“It’s an oversight, Lady Rafaema. I assume that the [Strategists] didn’t place a high level of credence on the rumors about her. And she was located at Liscor—”

“Our border city with the Humans! Does everyone forget they stopped the Antinium twice?”

“I believe the Walled Cities disagreed strongly with the decision to place a Hive under Liscor. That decision went against all the Walled Cities at the time. And since the trade road was overtaken by the Bloodfields—”

“I told them to figure out a way to burn it. But they thought it was fine. And the war council and the Dragonspeaker make the decisions. I’ve only been allowed into the war council recently, because I’m responsible now.”

Rafaema snorted and the air grew charged. Ferris felt his fur standing up on end. He’d have to buy an anti-shock ring if he was going to work this job. But Gnolls had been rare attendants of Rafaema. Few were trusted with this much knowledge. He coughed lightly.

“The Dragonspeaker and the war council respect your opinion greatly, Lady Rafaema.”

“But they look at me like I’m still a child. And I’m older than any of them by decades.”

The Dragon’s eyes were flashing. Oh yes, she was a Dragon, even if she had only ever met one other of her kind. And she did not like condescension, among other things. Part of Ferris’ job was to clean up after…problems. Or prevent them.

“Lady Rafaema, I’m sure the war council doesn’t mean any disrespect. If you have an issue, Dragonspeaker—”

“Quiet.”

And he was. Rafaema drew herself up. Dragon. Secret hope of the Drakes, if they didn’t know it yet. She still had time, over half a century to go. But look—

She was real. Rafaema looked at her home, the only city she had ever known. A pleasant cage. She had gone beyond the walls before, but never long. And since the Antinium—

“I want to go on a trip.”

“We can arrange a visit to another Walled City—”

“Not another Walled City. I want to go to Liscor.”

Ferris paused.

“I’m afraid that’s impossible, Lady Rafaema.”

“Oh really? Because of the Antinium?”

“Among other considerations, yes.”

“So, I can’t protect myself? Is that why I still can’t leave Manus?”

A delicate pause. Ferris didn’t feel like flying today. He bowed his head.

“I am only doing my duties, Lady Rafaema. And I have clear instructions. The Dragonspeaker—”

“Fine.”

Rafaema turned away. Ferris blinked. And then immediately grew wary. The young Dragon looked back at Ferris.

“I understand. I’m not a child. And I can understand Manus’ need for security. But I’m also older than I was. And I want authority. This is my city. And I’m going to do what should be done. The war council is making their decisions. And I’m making mine. So if I can’t go to Liscor—I want that Human to come here.”

“Erin Solstice?”

The young Dragon smiled.

“Yes. Bring her here. Manus is going to send her an invitation. And you’re going to help bring her here. Tell your [Infiltrators] or [Spies] or whomever else is going to make that happen too.”

“Lady Rafaema—”

She stared at him. Rafaema’s tone never grew less pleasant.

“I want to meet her. She’s an asset to the Antinium or she knows about them. I want to meet her. You’re going to get her to come here so I can appraise her. She’s just an [Innkeeper], right? I’ll make her an asset.”

“It might be difficult. We cannot kidnap a Human—”

“Who said kidnap? Just get her here. Offer her gold. I don’t care. But bring her here so I can make plans. This is my operation, by the way. Which no one is going to know about. You’re assigned to me, so you’re under my authority.”

Ferris paused. Each generation, and each handler had their struggles. He was sure his would be an eventful entry. Even if it was…short.

“What if, hypothetically, I found reason to take issue with your request, Lady Rafaema?”

She shrugged, smiling.

“Then the Dragonspeaker will be finding a new minder for me. Because the old one went flying with all his fur burnt off by lightning and his bones broken. Before he landed.”

Ferris stared at Rafaema. The beautiful, old and young, gifted and levelless, experienced and sheltered Dragon of Manus looked back at him. The Gnoll considered his options and sighed.

“I’m part of a rotation of your security detail, Lady Rafaema.”

“I know. But you’re in charge. Tell the other three they can cover for you. By the way, I know who’s on my detail. I have access to everything. I also know where you live. My 80th birthday isn’t anything compared to the trouble I can make now. And if I really don’t like what I hear, I’ll fly over those walls right now.”

The Gnoll paused, but there wasn’t really an option. And Rafaema and he both knew that. He looked pretty competent. Manus didn’t assign idiots to her, and the Gnoll was a [Soldier]. Rafaema watched him hurry off. And then she turned back.

Her city was a cage. But she was tired of it. She wasn’t about to wait eighty more years, not with the Antinium. Not when she knew her duty. Yes, duty. Investigating the Antinium and making the right decisions was something Rafaema could do. After all, she was a Dragon. And she could wait, at least until it was time to make her move.

She had forever, after all.



—-



“Alright! We’re not in trouble! There’s no war! And I am back! Cheers!”

There was a lot of plotting in the world. Lots of big, dramatic speeches, underhanded ploys, schemes—and you know what? It was all stupid. Erin Solstice knew what mattered. Sometimes it was about preparing for the future. Sometimes you had to think ahead.

But if you did that too long, you forgot to smile. And she had stared into the depths of her guilt and sadness. And she had seen her happiness. One was preferable to the other.

Erin Solstice raised her mug filled with apple juice and stood on a table. The inn cheered as her friends and family raised their mugs. The [Innkeeper] raised it and drank the sweet juice.

Lest the present slip away and be lost, smile. That was what she did on her first real day back. Erin drank the juice, sighed—and grinned. Around her, people drank deeply. But Erin wasn’t an alcohol drinker, mostly. Not only did she have [Immunity: Alcohol] until she turned it off, she didn’t really need it.

After all, she liked being in the moment. Erin climbed down from her table as Mrsha finished her cup of milk and smacked it onto the table. Next to her, Relc finished his substantially stronger drink and slammed it down.

“Hah! That’s right! This is how it should be! Whoo!”

The Drake was in good spirits. He cheered and Erin stared at his broken mug.

“Hey! Stop that! Restore!”

She waved her hands and her [Partial Restoration] Skill activated. Relc went cross-eyed as the mug in his hand fixed itself. He grinned.

“I love this place. Hey Erin, can I break a chair? Just for fun?”

“No! Stop that! Put it down!”

Erin Solstice laughed. And that was it. She was back. And the long-delayed celebration was happening at her inn. Relc paused in picking up a chair.

“Aw, come on. For old time’s sake.”

“No! Put it down!”

“Break it, Relc!”

Jelaqua shouted across the inn. The Halfseekers had come through the door to Pallass at the promise of parties and cake. She was sitting next to Maughin. The Drake raised it over his head.

“No! Stop it! Don’t encourage him!”

Erin pointed at Relc. She could have used her aura—but she wouldn’t. She saw people ducking as Relc turned. Then—Mrsha leapt at him.

“Ow! Hey! Stop that!”

Relc yelped at Mrsha climbed onto his shoulders. She hung onto a neck spine and began energetically beating him with one paw. He tried to get her off—gently despite his curses—and the laughter intensified.

“Mrsha, stop that!”

Lyonette scolded. But Mrsha hung on. Relc eventually pried her off and handed her to Lyonette.

“Hah! Ow. That little kid’s got some good muscle!”

“I’m sorry about that—Mrsha, apologize! You’re not a [Thug]!”

“What? No way. She’s like Embria at that age. You’ve gotta teach them to fight.”

Relc waved off the apology. Lyonette was angrier than he was. She scolded Mrsha, who fled behind Relc. Erin laughed. She looked around her inn.

Not everyone was here. The Players were still absent, having yet to appear through Celum’s door. Klbkch and the Antinium had left, save for Bird, who was in his room, punished. Erin didn’t see Numbtongue, but the Goblin didn’t like crowds. Olesm and the Council were still missing—

But Selys was here. She was chatting with Drassi. Yet—the Horns of Hammerad were gone. They’d left. Erin felt a pang.

Yet new came with the old. Palt, Montressa, and Beza were all present, all of whom wanted Erin to discuss matters of import with them. Erin wasn’t sure she liked the trade-off in guests, but she smiled as she saw a new crowd.

The Halfseekers, Rufelt, Lasica, Maughin, and Pelt were all present. They’d come through the door, although Moore had been forced to charge it up. The tired half-Giant was being plied with a large vessel of wine at this moment by his friends for his hard work. And indeed, today was a celebration of the heroics in Pallass as much as anything else.

“To the Halfseekers, for their hard work!”

Erin raised her apple juice and everyone toasted the Gold-rank team. Jelaqua got up and took a bow. Seborn just grunted as he drank from his cup. Moore smiled and Mrsha bounded over and leapt on his lap.

“Cheers! And to not having a war!”

Relc laughed, ignoring the moment of silence his words caused. Erin sighed, but then grinned.

“Cheers to that too. And to Relc, who’s a hero!”

“What? Hey, stop that—”

Relc turned red, much to Erin’s delight as she got another cheer. The Drake [Guardsman] covered it with a long drink. But it was true.



—-



In Liscor, the city was toasting more than just the aversion of war. They’d heard or seen the battle—mostly heard, since scrying orbs were expensive and rare—but those who had seen the battle had seen Relc and Olesm defending Pallass. Lism, in between arguing in the Council’s meeting room and sending [Messages] to other cities, had an incredibly smug look on his face. Undeserved, but proud.

As for Wing Commander Embria, she was smiling widely for no reason whatsoever. The High Command had gotten on her tail hard about Bird, but you wouldn’t know it. And indeed—nothing could dent Embria’s mood.

Because 4th Company was being bought drinks, or being stopped on the street as they patrolled or as they relaxed off-duty. And all the questions were about Relc. Relc, whom everyone knew as Senior Guardsman, that idiot Relc. But also as Relc, the Gecko of Liscor and former [Sergeant] in the army.

Normally, his name was mud and dum in 4th Company’s books as someone who’d quit the army. But at this moment, the Drake who’d gone into Pallass and faced the Wyvern Lord was a hero. And the [Soldiers] had been faced with the same choice as Liscor’s Army. Embrace Relc or…not.

“Sergeant Relc? Of course. We heard all the stories about him. He was actually 4th Company’s secret weapon. Back in the day he’d take out the enemy officer. Even a [Commander]-class once or twice! Just charge in, cut his way through, get away. Hit and run. Classic tactics. Of course, Captain Wikir served with him. Credit to the army. [Spearmaster]. Just like Wing Commander Embria. She learned it from him.”

Captain Pielt was speaking loudly to a crowd of listeners. Embria smiled as she finished her drink—she was getting countless requests for war stories about Relc. And reluctantly—reluctantly answering them. She…couldn’t stop smiling.



—-



There was time to laugh. Erin found herself sitting at a table with Rufelt, Lasica, Selys, Relc, and a handful of others. Pelt was happily getting drunk—Erin had promised him maximum discount and the Dwarf seemed content as Erin had ever seen him. Right now, though, Erin was just smiling.

She’d deal with the rest later. Including her [Garden of Sanctuary] which hadn’t appeared, even outside. Maybe she needed actual dirt and stuff? Lyonette had the flower pots in her room upstairs. And they were blooming well—half had been lost in the inn’s destruction, but Mrsha had helped bring them back.

“So we’re not in trouble? Promise? You’re sure?”

Lasica nodded. She was having a juice, like Erin. Rufelt had provided drinks for the others. Lasica took a few fries from the bowl and dipped them into Erin’s ketchup.

“The Assembly is hopping mad, but no one’s calling for your head. Or—Bird. Really, if the Walled Cities were organized, they’d probably do something, but they’re all fighting. Half are blaming Pallass for the attack.”

“It wasn’t their fault. I could have told you—Wyverns can do nasty tricks like that frost attack.”

Jelaqua sighed. She was chewing happily, and feeding Maughin’s head fries. It was a funny sight. Lasica shrugged.

“You know the cities. Erin, those are decent fries.”

“Thanks!”

“But why is it so salty? Do we need to have another cooking lesson?”

“Hey! Maybe! But this is fun food.”

“Greasy, is what I call it. Come to the bar later and I’ll give you another lesson.”

“And I’ll teach your [Bartender] more tricks. We owe you, Erin. I’m sorry about, er, everything during the battle.”

Rufelt looked embarrassed as he hugged his wife. Erin smiled.

“Hey! No problem. And congratulations! How do you know?”

Both husband and wife coughed. Relc looked blank as he drank from a mix of Antinium Rxlvn and a very sweet syrup. It was apparently the only thing that could make it flavorful. Also—Relc was one of the few people it wouldn’t knock out instantly.

“Well, it’s not a matter of knowing, Erin. We ah, you know interspecies couples have to purchase specific charms? It’s…effective.”

“If you buy the right ones. And I’m only a few weeks into it, so someone can stop treating me as if I’m glass!”

Lasica glared at her husband. He blushed again under his fur. You could tell by the way it rose. Erin laughed in delight.

“It’s still so great! But you’re so sure? When—”

“Well, we had a conversation—”

“Oh. You two had sex.”

Relc burped, finally catching on. The table exploded into laughter as Jelaqua leaned back, howling. Maughin had turned bright red. The Dullahan cleared his throat.

“That may be an inappropriate topic with children around.”

He looked at Mrsha, who was wandering the tables. Jelaqua nudged Maughin cheerfully.

“Don’t worry, Maughin. It’s just sex. You don’t have a problem with it normally.”

The Dullahan turned even redder at her wink. Erin felt a bit hot around the ears. She looked at Mrsha—but Mrsha was a Plains Gnoll. And she was totally uninterested. She hopped up onto a bar stool and stared at the Dwarf.

Pelt was older than Dawil. He was also grumpier than Dawil. Drassi leaned over the bar as Pelt motioned for another whiskey.

“Hey, Pelt, right? Do you know Dawil by any chance? He’s the only Dwarf I’ve ever met. Member of the Silver Swords?”

The [Smith] paused in reaching for another drink. He stared at Drassi and his eyes widened.

“Dawil? You mean, the Dawil? The adventurer? The one who won the axe-throwing competition in the mountains back at home?”

“You know him?”

Pelt nodded.

“Of course I do. Listen up. Dawil is—”

He waited until Drassi leaned over, then shouted in her earhole.

“Another damn Dwarf! What do I care? Serve me my drinks and fuck off!”

Drassi recoiled. She glared at Pelt as he downed another drink. The Dwarf laughed to himself as Drassi huffed over to Selys. Then he turned his head. A pair of brown eyes in a white-furred face stared at him.

“Eh?”

Pelt recoiled from Mrsha. He stared at her. The Gnoll cub stared silently back. At Pelt. Then at the complimentary bowl of peanuts. Roasted with a bit of sugar and then salted. The Dwarf stared at Mrsha. He vaguely tried to shoo her off.

“I don’t like brats. Get lost.”

Mrsha stared at him. Pelt noticed her looking at the bowl.

“You want this? Take it and go away.”

He shoved it towards her. Mrsha grabbed the bowl and vanished. Pelt was clearly a good Dwarf. Best Dwarf. Mrsha scampered over to Seborn and Moore to share her prize. Apista flew over and grabbed a peanut. Because even a bee wanted a beer snack.

“It’s random if you don’t have a charm to ward against pregnancy or buy one that encourages it. Mine was random. Gotta be careful!”

Relc was talking to the table about sex. A conversation that would have probably done the impossible and wiped Embria’s smile off her face if she’d been here. Erin was laughing. Maughin looked like he wanted to be anywhere else.

“Don’t tell me, Relc! At least we’re safe! The other cities are really fighting?”

“Oh yes. Pallass embarrassing itself by letting an Antinium and the Wyverns onto its walls are just as important as the rest. Why do you think the Wings and Grimalkin and everyone else are nowhere to be seen? They’ll argue about it, but I think you’re fine. At least for now.”

Lasica rolled her eyes, exasperated. Rufelt had to nod along.

“The Walled Cities are always competing. But then—Drakes. You know the saying, surely?”

Erin glanced around the table as Lasica elbowed her husband. Maughin, Jelaqua, and Beilmark, who’d come over since she wasn’t part of the Council, all laughed.

“Wait, what saying?”

Rufelt looked at Erin, eyes twinkling as his wife glared. Relc was just laughing.

“There’s a saying about Drakes. If the entire world was reduced to dust and there were two Drakes left, they’d fight over who had the most dust, yes?”

The [Chef] glared, but Erin laughed with everyone else. Then she frowned.

“I’ve heard that one, actually!”

“Wait—wait, I know another!”

An eager voice rang out. Erin saw a female Gnoll waving a paw. Only—it wasn’t a Gnoll. It was Ulinde! The newest member of the Halfseekers was happier than Erin had ever seen her. She spoke, laughter in her voice.

“Okay. Do you know how to tell the difference between a Drake and a Lizardperson?”

“Hey!”

Relc glared. Erin pushed him in the shoulder.

“No, how?”

“Drakes are the ones who complain about being asked!”

More laughed. Relc and Lasica glared around the table. Selys, who came over with a mug in one hand, caught the last of the joke. She pulled a chair up.

“Oh, very funny.”

“But it’s true!”

“There’s tons of saying about Drakes. Any about other species?”

Erin was genuinely curious. The others nodded. Beilmark grinned. Erin didn’t know her well, but the Senior Guardswoman was friendly.

“Tons! I know one about Gnolls yes? It is a bit of an inside joke—but shall I tell it?”

The others nodded. Beilmark took a grin, and then began.

“Hrr. Okay, a Plains Gnoll and a City Gnoll walk into a bar. The Plains Gnoll says she’s never seen so much alcohol in her life. She asks how something like this can come to be.”

She nodded at Rufelt. The Gnoll smiled, a rueful look on his face. Erin stopped laughing. Beilmark went on.

“The City Gnoll says it’s because she worked hard all day and night and distilled the liquor and built the bar they’re standing in. The Plains Gnoll says that’s all very well, but the City Gnoll’s forgotten her roots. And both are arguing so loudly they don’t notice the Human [Thief] stealing all the alcohol.”

The silent table erupted into guffaws. Even Erin, who’d been worried the saying was getting pretty political. But Beilmark and Rufelt were laughing harder.

“Definitely a Gnoll joke.”

Selys smiled over her cup. Erin laughed.

“But Humans are the punch line! Hey! We’re not all like that?”

Lasica raised her eyebrow. The Drake put down her cup of juice and looked around.

“Oh yeah? How about this, then? If someone drops a gold coin on the ground, a Drake will take it and never give it back. A Gnoll will bring it to his tribe. And a Human will plant a flag on the ground and claim this was their land forever and that they’ve always lived there.

This time Relc choked on his drink he was laughing so hard. Jelaqua pounded the table, and even Maughin chuckled. Erin put her hands on her hips. Some of the Gnolls sitting at another table were chuckling.

“Hey! That’s—”

She wanted to say inaccurate, but knowing the history of Izril made it a tiny bit hard. Selys was laughing next to Erin. She raised her claw.

“I’m sorry, Erin. But really—okay. Here’s one. The only thing a Human won’t mate with is a Creler, and that’s only because the ones who tried got eaten!”

“Hey! That’s not funny!”

Erin protested. Some of the others agreed, but even Seborn started laughing. Erin looked around. As one of two Humans in the room—discounting Moore, and maybe Seborn who both seemed to find it funny—she felt a bit hurt. More people began calling in jokes. Erin stared as Seborn shouted.

“My turn. What’s the only difference between a Human and a Selphid?”

“What?”

“One of them only steals bodies.”

Jelaqua sprayed her drink out. She began hitting the table as she and Ulinde howled with laughter. Erin glared.

“Hey! Hey! I don’t have to stand for this!”

“How many Humans does it take to conquer a Walled City?”

Half the inn shouted.

“How many?”

“I don’t know! They’re still counting!”

Relc was howling with laugher. He bellowed for attention as Erin shouted around her inn, glaring and laughing.

“Classics! My turn! The only good feature about Humans is that they’re edible! And even then, they taste like crap!”

The room fell silent. Relc paused. He saw everyone staring at him.

“Hey. It’s just a joke. I don’t know myself. It’s sort of funny. Right?”



—-



Just a moment in the sun. Erin Solstice went upstairs for a break. Mainly because even after Relc’s joke, the entire room had decided to roast Humans. And they had a lot of jokes. Mainly, she wanted to check on Bird.

“Bird? Hello? Are you okay? You can come down to eat food. Not birds.”

She wanted to make sure he wasn’t too upset. As Erin knocked on the door, she heard a clatter and an oath.

“Numbtongue?”

Erin opened the door and saw Numbtongue getting up from Bird’s Fortress of Fluff. The Hobgoblin had a bottle of whiskey in his claws. Bird was sitting still in his Fortress.

“I am not doing anything bad!”

The Worker looked at Erin. She blinked at him. And then the cups.

“Oh. Oh.”

She looked at the Hobgoblin. Numbtongue gave her a shrug.

“Sorry.”

“No, it’s fine! I didn’t know where you were either Numbtongue—I was just going to check! Hey! It’s fine! Great, actually! If you want, I can bring you something—”

“No, no. Too many people. I ate enough.”

The Hobgoblin reassured Erin. He looked uncomfortable—Erin knew he didn’t like crowds. She smiled at him.

“Sure! Hey—you might like the jokes they’re telling downstairs. It’s all about Humans! But that’s fine. I’m gonna check on the Workers on the roof—they’re still working, although all the other Antinium are gone. Maybe some sausages. On a stick! You two have fun!”

She closed the door. Numbtongue and Bird waited a beat, and then Bird pulled out the half-eaten Wyvern wing from out of his Fortress. Numbtongue let out a sigh of relief. He gestured at Bird and the Antinium handed him a piece.

“We are being very bad. Which is good. I may be drunk.”



—-



Erin Solstice wandered over to the Workers with some sausages on sticks. It was easy for the Workers to eat that way, and she passed a basket to the Worker who silently took it and bowed. Erin smiled at him, and then went back down to endure her roasting.

“Jerks. I’m gonna come up with a joke about Gnolls. Gnolls—if you shave them—no, wait. Gnolls…Selphids! No.”

But she was smiling. Erin treasured this moment, jokes or not. She almost felt like she could conjure fire—but she didn’t want a memory. She wanted to experience this. This was home.

Only one thing stopped her as she walked to the stairs. Erin turned to her door. Her nameplate was on it. And—she hesitated.

Then she entered her room.

Two boards sat on the table. Erin stared at them. The ghostly chess pieces. And the Go board. It probably hadn’t been enough t—

The pieces had moved. Erin stared. The Go board was the largest version of the ones she’d shown Olesm. Not a 9 by 9 for beginners, but a proper 19 square by 19 square design. You could play games on that one. She had spelled out a message to her opponent on it.



who r u?



Just a message. A sign of something new. Erin had spelled it in the black Go stones, arranging them to form the words. She hadn’t known if her opponent would respond. Or when.

But they had. Now, Erin saw white stone shimmering on the board. Her breath caught. They had seen. And replied. She stepped over to the board. She was shaking with nerves. She looked at the board—realized she was reading it the wrong way—

Then saw.



a fan.



That was all. That was all the board said. Erin’s breath came loose. But even then—she felt shocked. She stared at the board. Then looked around. The sun had barely moved. Whoever had seen the message had seen it fast.

Maybe—they were still staring at the board. Erin didn’t know. But slowly, hesitantly, she approached the board.

This time she moved black stones. Arranging the pieces to form a…line below the first one. Like a primitive message board. Or some kind of alternative messaging system. No, that was exactly what it was. Erin placed the pieces. Stepped back. Her new message was longer, but abbreviated out of necessity; the Go board wasn’t exactly easy to spell on.

She hesitated as she looked at her response. But it was the only one she could give. What could you say, to someone you’d never met? Yet—one that Erin knew, through the game. She knew what the boards must cost, knew…but her message was still simple. Honest.



wnt to b frnds?



She looked at the pieces. That was all. Somewhere, someone was reading it. Erin couldn’t know who, or what they thought. But the reply suddenly came. Erin jumped as white pieces move. Left the board. Then they floated back. She stared, but she read the message before it had finished. A single reply.



yes.



That was it. Erin sighed. And then she smiled. And somewhere, she thought, someone was smiling as well. She saw the white pieces tremble. And then move.

The board cleared itself. Black stones floated back into the container. So did white stones. Then, gently, a single black stone was selected. It appeared on the same spot Erin had placed it to begin with. 4-4, upper left corner. Then a white stone floated to face it diagonally.

A game. It was a message, as much as anything else. And Erin saw her chess board waiting. She looked at both. Some things never changed, or if they did, it was subtly, slowly.

Erin Solstice smiled, as her inn relaxed. Normality. She looked at the chess board, the go board. And then she flicked both stones off the board.

“Not yet.”

Erin Solstice dragged the chess board over. She knocked the chess pieces off it. And then she laid chess pieces on the chess board, sideways. And the Go stones clattered onto their board. Black, for Erin. Spelling messages across both surfaces. Creating words.



nce 2 meet u! I lke chss. hv u plyed 6-way chss?



She couldn’t know how fast the other person read. But she knew they were there. So Erin spelled and destroyed her messages, trusting that her opponent had read them.



evr plyed Shogi? hw abt Tafl? cn teach!



Erin Solstice waited. And then, shakily, someone replied. She watched as a message came back, across the world. And Erin smiled as she began writing, and the people downstairs wondered if they’d told too many Human jokes. But it was fine.

When the world moved, it danced.





7.05 P


Riverfarm. Possibly the most generic name for a village in the history of the world. Whomever had come up with it clearly hadn’t thought hard about the village’s name. True, it made sense; Riverfarm was a village that farmed…by a river.

But still. There were other names to call a village. Even Windrest was better, let alone a village like Velan’s Fall, which had been built near the place where the last Goblin King had died. Or what about Degaintel? A village literally named after a Named Adventurer?

There were better names. But it was Riverfarm’s name which grew during the summer. That small farming village in largely undeveloped territory, far from the richer, more populous north was growing. And Riverfarm was the first of the settlements who began to claim an allegiance greater than fealty to any landed noble.

They were part of the Unseen Empire. And that was a name which had a beguiling force about it. Still, it was yet largely unheard of. But more of the nobility knew of the Unseen Empire than, say, [Traders] and [Merchants] or your average worker.

And in the first days of summer, Riverfarm began exporting its goods. Fire had ravaged the area, driving prices up as countless farms had suffered the inferno that had swept through the region. Plague had ravaged Radivaek lands to the north—it might have been a time of famine, even in the summer.

But Riverfarm was producing far more crops than it ever had. [Farmers] pooled their Skills and worked vast fields. At the same time, [Engineers] were going along with the wagons full of goods. And they had odd, odd technologies.

The [Engineers] were talking about windmills. Devices—cranes—for lifting heavy objects up. Riverfarm already sported a large waterwheel for creating its own flour. And that was a revelation.

For Humans, at least. Around Pallass, gristmills were as common as dirt. But Pallass was known as the City of Invention, and Drake [Engineers] were one of its signature specialties. In the north, someone with the class and levels to make such structures were rare indeed.

Gristmills, for grinding, were more sporadic, usually ancient, and maintained and built by [Millers], who enjoyed a monopoly for their hard work and Skills. But now Riverfarm’s [Engineers] were offering to build windmills. The [Millers] were outraged, smaller villages and towns were greatly intrigued by the prospects.

That was one of the changes people heard about. But far more outlandish rumors were coming from Riverfarm as well. It was said that the lands were protected from harm, that [Bandits] had begun to avoid the area. Even, that there were new laws around Riverfarm.

[Witches], for one. They were protected in Riverfarm. Never mind that one had caused the fires that had ravaged the area after the long drought. But [Witches] were treated with respect in Riverfarm. Or was it Trolls? Either way, it was all at the command of a strange person.

An [Emperor]. He had returned. He was a Chandrarian [Emperor]—no, a Terandrian with ancient bloodlines. In fact—he was descended from Rhir’s get, but banished because he had been affected by the blight. He was blind, you see. They called him the Unseen Emperor. The Emperor of Riverfarm. A tiny village in the middle of nowhere.

People laughed at that rumor more than they gave it credence. But strangely, most of the rumors were almost entirely true.

Riverfarm had its [Emperor]. And he had brought change. The village was still growing, and it was laid out perfectly, as if an [Architect] had planned it out. Or someone with extremely good visualization skills. It was no longer a village, in truth, but a small town.

More and more people were arriving, family of those who lived here, or people who had heard there was something here for them. Safety, a guarantee of shelter and food for honest work, an opportunity to learn, or give their children something. Some couldn’t have even said why they made the journey. But perhaps the name called them.

Empire. [Emperor]. Like the allure of a crown, the very word glittered like gold. An idea. Izril had no [Kings] or monarchs, and that was what the nobility preferred, what they took pride in. They had left Terandria to escape that very thing. But the views of Izril’s elite were not of the people. Some people simply wanted to be part of it.

Today, if you walked down Riverfarm’s streets, you might see a dozen changes. People hard at work building new houses with incredible speed. The first…was it a workshop? No, a factory—a trial concept called an ‘assembly line’ taking place. A cluster of [Engineers] working out new plans to build more efficient wells, or their movable ‘cranes’ or some new invention.

An old [Carpenter] building a new totem pole, often crabbing off to sell a few miniatures he’d carved on the sly. A half-Troll marching with new recruits, wearing iron armor and holding a large, large club and shield. A [Witch], striding down the street with a smile like the sun and her own axe. No one crossed her path, save for children or those with nothing on their conscience.

And there—you could come to it. Amid the people bowing to greet you, or calling out your name. As Gamel kept them away, Laken Godart paused and turned his head up. He couldn’t see the thing in the half-built plaza. At least, not with his eyes. But he knew it was there.

A statue was being carved out of stone. Well—two statues. One was here, the other in a quieter place, what would be a gazebo. Riverfarm needed a park. Ironic, that. But the village—town—burgeoning empire needed to save its nature, rather than cut down everything in sight.

Laken had picked out a spot. And he knew it was being built at this moment. He could sense everything in his lands. And now the [Emperor] paused a moment, inspecting the work ahead of him.

A man noticed the young [Emperor] at last. He nearly fell off his perch.

“Your Majesty! A thousand apologies. I was preoccupied—”

“Go on, Master Worhen, don’t let me bother you. I’m just here to observe for a moment. And you have your work to attend to.”

Laken nodded to the man. Bowing, the [Stonecarver] did just that. He was no Jelov, to enjoy talking and taking his ease. In fact, he could tune Laken out fairly quickly. He lived for his art, and Laken saw he was already half-done.

Two statues were being built in Riverfarm. Only two. Some people wanted more statues. Of Laken. As if Jelov hadn’t carved enough figurines and his little totem miniatures on the sly. But the [Emperor] had insisted. There was time enough for statues and art when Riverfarm was built to accommodate all the people and there was a surplus of talent. But right now, only two statues needed to be built.

One was of a faerie. Only, she was larger-than-life. Larger, in fact, than most people. That was the statue that was being built in the plaza here. Laken thought it looked good, at least in his mind’s eye. In truth, he didn’t know what it was supposed to look like.

The [Stonecarver], Worhen, didn’t quite know how to fashion her since he himself had never seen a Frost Faerie, and neither had the [Emperor], so the statue was far from reality. But she was beautiful and mischievous and the pedestal already had an inscription.

The Winter Guide, Ivolethe.

She would be in the center of Riverfarm’s largest plaza. And Laken supposed he’d better gild the base of the statue with gold lettering or something. Lady Rie had objected—strenuously—to him demanding the costly block of stone she was being fashioned from. But Laken had delayed overlong, and he wanted to honor his promise. You never knew if those touchy fae were about.

The second statue Laken didn’t visit. And it was going to be a work of art. If Worhen labored hard over Ivolethe—well, he did it with an artist’s passion, exaggerating what he thought was her beauty and adding charm and delight to the impressive faerie. In that sense, he was overdoing Ivolethe, giving her qualities she did not have, like…friendliness, the grandeur of scale. And failing to capture all of the magic and wonder at the same time.

But he would work harder on the second statue nonetheless. And have less of a fun time. He would sweat over it, because it had to be true to life. And who could ever capture the life of the figure the statue would be of?

The inscription was done, but the stone barely carved in the gazebo. It would be of a woman, standing, a pointed hat on her head. She would look down on all who passed.

Witch Califor.

And that inscription had nothing more. There was no greater honor, no title you could give her that would measure up to the [Witch]. Laken paused, his mind going to that block of stone.

These were an [Emperor]’s debts. And he was repaying more. Someone approached him from the side.

“Your Majesty—”

“Gamel. What does Gralton want this time?”

Gamel paused, but he needn’t have been surprised. The City Runner who’d come running in from the north had a pair of dogs with him. And only a few City Runners had animal companions.

“Lord Gralton is requesting more [Engineers], your Majesty.”

“We sent him six.”

“Yes, sire. But—”

Laken sighed.

“Tell Gralton that if he wants more [Engineers], I would appreciate more of his hunting dogs—and artifacts. Potions! [Alchemists] if he can spare any. But I’ll settle for bags of holding.”

“He sent them, your Majesty. Six. The City Runner just delivered them.”

Laken’s brows rose.

“Six? And how many [Engineers] does he want? Wait—I thought you couldn’t carry more than one bag of holding without them reacting?”

“No, your Majesty. So he had to run them back and forth. With his dogs.”

“Ah. Clever. And let me guess. Gralton wants…”

“Six more [Engineers], your highness.”

Laken sighed.

“Give him three. And eight [Builders]. Tell Tessia I need more recruits if we’re going to continue sending out so many.”

“There’s no shortage of hands, your Majesty.”

“True.”

Laken smiled. He paused as Gamel hurried off. Riverfarm was indeed in blossom, having earned a hard-won reprieve from its ails after the Oldblood Drake’s attack on the village. And—Belavierr.

The [Emperor]’s smile vanished. He stood and felt his kingdom. Searching with his mind to every corner of it. He couldn’t sense Belavierr. But he sometimes dreamed he felt her, lurking around the edges of his lands.

The Stitch Witch. She would have no statue, but people would remember her. When they saw a crying baby in Rehanna’s arms. When they looked at [Witches].

Still—if Riverfarm had any worries, it wasn’t Belavierr at the moment. Which was ironic. She gave Laken nightmares. But Riverfarm’s folk were more afraid of…

Laken’s mind turned to a blank spot in his lands. A large, vast blank spot along the side of the mountains. It had been his land, but now it was not. He had no idea what was going on there, but he monitored what he could sense.

“Gamel.”

The young man paused as he returned.

“Your Majesty?”

“They’re sneaking out again. Five of them. Tell Beniar to force them back. Just along the mountainside. They’re splitting up—two climbing higher, the other two heading for the marshlands.”

“Yes, Emperor Godart.”

Gamel bowed. He couldn’t disguise the feeling in his voice, nor the way he picked up his step as he ran off. Laken sighed.

“Trouble, your Majesty?”

The soft voice came from the side. Lady Rie Valerund looked at Laken as he turned. He shook his head.

“Just another attempt from our guests to leave, Lady Rie.”

“So soon?”

Her tone sharpened. Laken couldn’t really ‘see’ her face, but her posture was agitated. She didn’t like them any more than the villagers. Laken ignored Rie’s pointed question.

“Beniar will catch them. They’re unmounted.”

“Dangerous.”

“Really? Riverfarm outnumbers them countless times over. And this is all they’ve done. In fact, all they’ve done.”

The [Lady] pursed her lips. Laken’s tone was exasperated.

“They have armed themselves, your Majesty.”

“Have they? You’ve clearly had them watched more than I. And what have our evil monsters done?”

Laken’s tone made Rie flush. Or at least, he thought she did. The [Lady] paused.

“Well, they have armed themselves despite failing to take advantage of your generosity—”

“As you said. The hundreds of them. A ravening horde. How many new recruits have joined our army so far? Just a quick estimate would do.”

Rie delicately ignored the question.

“—However, they have not done…much, your Majesty. They seem content to laze about. For now.”

Laken heard the note of confusion in Rie’s voice. She’d expected them to set about doing something. But the guests, Riverfarm’s worries—and Laken’s debt—were just doing that.

Nothing. The Goblins were in that blank spot, Laken knew. He couldn’t see them. He had given them territory. And they…he smiled ruefully.

“Scheiße. I underestimated them.”

Lady Rie paused.

“Yes, your Majesty? In what way?”

The [Emperor] shrugged. He leaned on his white cane, though he didn’t really need it. It was just habit to walk with it.

“They’ve splendidly failed my every expectation. You told me they were cunning. But they outsmarted my best efforts.”

“By doing nothing?”

Laken turned his head towards Lady Rie. His closed eyes opened for a moment.

“Precisely.”

Lady Rie Valerund waited. But Laken didn’t explain himself anymore. He just walked past Lady Rie.

“Report to me if they move, Lady Valerund.”

She opened her mouth to protest, but Laken just swept off. And she had to trail after him as he greeted Miss Yesel. The [Emperor] moved where he chose, and worked on whatever he could. But he couldn’t improve or change or coerce one group.

They sat or stood or lazed in a place several miles away from Riverfarm’s borders. Not too far, but in their own territory. A large, vast space, really, which could have become farmlands. Or mines. Far more than a few hundred Goblins needed. They could do anything there, except easily leave.

Beniar’s [Riders] shepherded five Goblins back towards the edge of their territory. It was clearly marked—people had planted signs, warning any traveller who didn’t know what lurked here.

Goblins. An [Emperor]’s one bit of madness. Taken all the way from Liscor. Goblins. They could do anything.

But they did nothing. The Goblins sat about, a few munching on bits of food they’d found. One or two did press ups, or sharpened the stone weapons they’d made. A group of big, wooden crates sat conspicuously off to the side, unopened.

The Goblins had a few ramshackle huts, a cooking fire or two. Nothing more. The few Humans who sometimes stared at them from afar thought that it was pathetic. The Goblins weren’t trying to improve anything! Of course—what did you expect from monsters? There was no fathoming what his Majesty was thinking.

They were Goblins. Just Goblins. To the people of Riverfarm, they looked the same. Goblins. Monsters. The very same creatures that had destroyed so much, and who for some reason had been given land and safety. It boggled the mind. But their [Emperor] was also of a mind to tolerate [Witches].

Well, [Witches] were one thing. There were bad ones and good ones. But Goblins?

The people of Riverfarm didn’t know what the Goblins were thinking. They didn’t understand the Goblins. They had no idea. And their opinion was worthless. The Goblins had no use for it. And while Riverfarm grew by leaps and bounds, they just sat there. Letting time flow by.

Of course, it was intentional. The Goblins had come a long way. They had endured so much. And right now, they were spiting an [Emperor]’s plans by sitting there. Laken Godart had to admit, it was ingenious. But his desires were irrelevant too.

This was the Goblin’s choice. This was their little story. And it belonged to the little Goblin with the filthy hat that sat on the ground, poking at an anthill.

The tale had begun long ago. In a dungeon, in an inn. It had begun with an [Innkeeper], the Raskghar, a band of Hobgoblins. It had been a long story, of a Great Chieftain, a Goblin Lord, and a Goblin warrior who had been an adventurer and a traitor. And a little Chieftain who was a genius.

It had ended in death. A slaughter. Wagons. Despair. But that was a Goblin’s story. And one of the last threads in it sat there, poking with a stick at a milling hill. Her skin was grey. And she was hungry.

Her name was Pebblesnatch.





Day ?



Before.

Pebblesnatch didn’t keep track of the days she’d been in the wagon. She didn’t know how long it was since she had left the dungeon, or her second home.

She didn’t remember. Time wasn’t something Pebblesnatch felt like she needed to count. She only remembered. And time had lost its meaning in the wagons. They rolled on, sometimes in rain, sometimes in sunlight. Pebblesnatch had gotten used to it. She was fed, and there were blankets. And other Goblins.

She was a prisoner. She knew that too. The Humans had captured her after the battle. But they hadn’t killed her. They dragged her, screaming, from her hiding place and put her in the cage. With the others. Now, they were taking her somewhere.

North. Pebblesnatch didn’t do much in the wagons. She ate. Pooped. Slept. There wasn’t much to do, other than stare out of the wagons. Pace around while bumping into other Goblins. Wait.

Sleeping was easy and hard. Pebblesnatch was good at sleeping, but she had…nightmares. Of the past.

Once, there had been the darkness. The dungeon, with invisible things. Bad places to step. Traps. And the masters.

The Raskghar. Sometimes, Pebblesnatch dreamed she was there, in the dungeon, and Facestealer was coming for her, poking heads on sticks out. Staring with dead faces. She’d wake up gasping in panic, trying not to make a sound.

Those were bad dreams. But sometimes she had good dreams, and she’d wake up thinking she was in the inn and look around for a cookie, a smiling face. In a way, those were actually nightmares because she’d wake up in the cages again. But—the nightmare-nightmares were worse still.

Because Pebblesnatch remembered it. The inn. A tall thing with pale skin and little hair. A…Human. Erin Solstice. And she had been—

Kind. So kind. Pebblesnatch remembered a warm fire, blankets, everything she wanted to eat. Safety. The five Hobgoblins. A sniffing white Gnoll. And she remembered feeling safe for the one time in her life.

The little Cave Goblin never screamed when she dreamed of the dungeon. But when she dreamed of the inn, she woke up making sounds. Not crying. Crying was how you got eaten. But sometimes a noise escaped and she’d wake up with Goblins squeezed tight around her, in the prison of moving wood and metal.

This time Pebblesnatch couldn’t bear it. She woke up and made the sound again. It came out of her. Some of the other Goblins twitched around her, and a foot kicked vaguely at her, but Pebblesnatch couldn’t help it. She remembered the inn. And Numbtongue, Badarrow—

All dead.

The sound came again. Pebblesnatch closed her eyes. But she shook. And in the darkness, she felt something touch her. For a moment she froze, thinking it was another Goblin trying to shut her up. But the hand was gentle.

“Shh. Quiet. Shut up.”

The voice was low. And largely unsympathetic. But the hand patted Pebblesnatch gently on the head. The little Cave Goblin stopped making the sound. She looked up and saw the female Hobgoblin sitting next to her.

Ulvama. The female Hob wore less clothing than Pebblesnatch, but she still wore the markings of her class. Colorful paint, worn from the long days and nights. She sat, her crimson eyes staring out of the bars of their wagon-cage. Pebblesnatch felt Ulvama pat her on the head.

She was a [Shaman]. A class that Pebblesnatch had not known existed. Ulvama looked at Pebblesnatch. She stopped patting, then flicked the Cave Goblin across the head.

“Noisy Goblin. Shush.”

It wasn’t a hard flick, but Pebblesnatch made no more sounds. She was awake now, as the wagons trundled on through the night. Ulvama sat, staring ahead blankly. She was a prisoner too. She had been taken after the battle. Pebblesnatch had not known Ulvama, the chief [Shaman] of the Mountain City tribe until her imprisonment. But she had been put in the same wagon as Ulvama by chance. And she had gotten to know Ulvama over their imprisonment.

Ulvama was a Hob. One of three captured by the Humans. Pebblesnatch had never met a female Hobgoblin, although she had known the five Redfang Hobgoblins. And Ulvama was different.

She didn’t have muscle. At least, not like Headscratcher and the others. She had softer skin, and she wasn’t nice. She was bossy, mean, and quick to hit or kick any Goblin in the wagon who got on her nerves in the cage, including Pebblesnatch. Ulvama was used to having her way—she had been like a Chieftain, but not quite in her tribe.

But when Pebblesnatch woke up at night, making sounds, Ulvama just sat there. And she patted Pebblesnatch’s head gently. That was all. She’d never do that in the light. In the mornings, she just glared at everyone and everything.

Pebblesnatch had no metric for anything else about Ulvama. But she noticed that male Goblins—and the Humans escorting the wagons—stared at Ulvama. Either species. Ulvama encouraged it. Although—when one Human had come too close, she’d nearly taken out his eye with one of her claws.

That had caused trouble. But no one was allowed near the Goblin cages anymore. And no one had stabbed Ulvama, or shot her with arrows, even though they wanted to. That was because of him.

The Human they called an [Emperor]. Pebblesnatch looked around. Sometimes she could see him, riding next to the wagons, or sitting in the cart in front of them.

He was there now. She froze when she saw him. Because she knew.

Him. The Human whose eyes never opened. The one they called ‘Majesty’. The Goblins had heard it. After all, all they could do in their prisons was watch and listen. The young Human male was important. He was the one responsible for capturing all the Goblins, preventing the others from killing them. He had demanded they be put into the wagons, taken with him.

There were so few left. There were many wagons of Goblins, squeezed in, hundreds of them. But so few compared to how many there had been. Pebblesnatch remembered the armies of Goblins fighting.

Dying.

Now, all those that remained were here. Everyone else was dead. Pebblesnatch wondered if they were going to die, but it didn’t look that way. The [Emperor] wanted them alive. For some reason.

The other Humans didn’t like that. The ones who rode around the wagons and had to give Goblins food and move the wagons hated the Goblins. They’d poked at the Goblins with spears when the [Emperor] wasn’t looking until he saw the injuries. Then there had been lots of shouting and some of the Humans had been hit with straps. Pebblesnatch had enjoyed watching that.

The poking had stopped. And the spitting too. The wagons rolled on. Pebblesnatch didn’t remember how long it had been.

Pebblesnatch stole glances at the [Emperor]. He was blind. Like a Goblin with both eyes poked out by a Raskghar. Pebblesnatch understood that. She just wondered who’d poked his eyes out.

“Gamel.”

Ahead of them, Laken Godart ordered his servant to toss the phone at the wagon. Pebblesnatch watched the iPhone soaring, saw another Hobgoblin in a wagon ahead of them catch it. She knew the iPhone. She heard the music play.

This was their life in the wagons. Ulvama roused as she heard the song, in another language, play. She glared ahead, but she had given up insulting the Humans long ago. Now, she simply looked around.

The rain began to fall again. Pebblesnatch shivered. Despite the body heat, some of the droplets were landing on her skin, wetting her. Ulvama glared around as water dripped off her shoulders. She looked around the wagon, then stood up.

With one stride, Ulvama stepped over Goblins slumbering or sitting in the wagons. She found a Goblin sheltering in one of the blankets they’d been given. Ulvama yanked the blanket off the Goblin, ignoring the angry protests. She kicked, and then went back to her spot. The [Shaman] covered herself up as it continued to rain. She ignored Pebblesnatch as the Cave Goblin crawled under the blanket next to her.

It was warm. Pebblesnatch wriggled until Ulvama smacked the blanket. Then the Cave Goblin just curled up. She felt secure in this place, buried entirely in the blanket. So she fished around in her clothing and produced something.

Pebblesnatch had only two possessions in this world. Only two. One was a worn, white bit of cloth, dirty from being used as her pillow. But the second thing she never showed anyone.

Every day she looked at it, in secret, under blankets or when all the others were asleep. If the others saw she had it, they might take it. Or the Humans might try to. It was precious. And now it lit up the little pocket of space as Pebblesnatch stared at it. A round mana stone. A glowing, crimson gem she’d hidden away when she was caught. That she never let go of. It had a power. But there was no door.

The Cave Goblin stared at the stone. And she clutched it tight as the wagons paused because one had gotten stuck in the mud. Ahead of her, Humans shouted. And Pebblesnatch began to doze off again as Ulvama sourly muttered to herself.

“Humans.”

Pebblesnatch closed her eyes as she hid the glowing red stone again. It had given her another memory of the inn. If they were going to die in a bit, Pebblesnatch wanted to dream of that bright inn one last time.

This was her life, remembering, waking, sleeping. Pursuing the very thing that hurt her, because it had been glorious. Nothing more.

Until the day the wagons stopped.





Day ???



Then.

The world was so—strange. Pebblesnatch stumbled as she was forced off the wagons. She stared around wildly. What was this place?

Grass. And trees over there. A mountain! Pebblesnatch stared up, awed. For a Cave Goblin, the outdoors was still unfamiliar. And this wasn’t Liscor, with Floodplains and rain and mud. This place looked…

Beautiful. But the Humans with weapons made Pebblesnatch look at them warily. The Goblins were herded into a crowd, and then the [Emperor] spoke. He looked at the male Hob, at the Goblins.

“I know you can understand me. And I know you’re there. I can’t imagine what you must feel. But we’ve arrived at our destination. And you must know what comes next.”

The Goblins stared at him warily. They were ready for death, for battle. Some of them wore red paint, and they looked ready to fight with their bare claws. Pebblesnatch was afraid.

But the Human didn’t order his people to attack. He had many Humans behind him. And they all had weapons. They could have slaughtered the Goblins, but all the [Emperor] did was take his white cane. He dragged it through the dirt. Pebblesnatch stared at the Human as he pointed.

“You see this line? Beyond this line is my land. The land of Riverfarm. The Unseen Empire.”

The Goblins looked at him. The Human pointed.

“My territory.”

Pebblesnatch scratched her head as he explained. That was his land? This was…their land? The Human said they could live there. But they couldn’t hit Humans or leave. She saw other Goblins looking just as blank as she did. Some—some seemed to understand, but not the Cave Goblins. They stared at the dirt.

It was just a line. Meaningless. What made that line Human’s land and the other part Goblin’s land? Besides which—Pebblesnatch looked at Laken Godart.

This was his land. And this…was Goblin’s? It made no sense. Goblins didn’t have land. They didn’t have anything. They stole it and ran when Humans came.

But he’d left them with more than just land. Big, big crates were set in the ground in Goblin territory, crushing the grass. Pebblesnatch wiggled her toes as the Goblins investigated. They stared at Laken as the first crate’s lid came off. They crowded around to see.

Nails, hammers, pillows, woodcutting axes, seeds, flour—supplies of every kind filled the crates. Pebblesnatch stared at the bounty. But her eyes were drawn to what lay on top.

The iPhone. All the Goblins turned to look at the [Emperor]. He nodded.

And then he left. Leaving the Goblins with their…land. With tools. With the precious, magical thing that played music and did so much more. And the Goblins, mystified, looked at each other.

They had seen their people die. They had been carted across the world as prisoners for weeks. And now they were here. No one had killed them. They’d been given…Pebblesnatch stared at the crates. For what?

She looked at the iPhone. It called to her. Whenever it had been given to their wagon, all the Goblins had wanted to use it. Pebblesnatch had crowded around as they investigated, taking pictures, figuring out how it worked. It was a glorious thing.

She reached for it, but the Redfang Hob was faster. He took the iPhone and looked at the others. The female Hob Redfang, some of the older Goblins.

Ulvama.

The Redfang Hob stared off at the place where the Humans had gone. He inspected the iPhone, stared at the line in the dirt. Then he looked around. The other Goblins stared at him. Just as mystified.

What were they supposed to do now?





Day Now



That was then. This was now. Pebblesnatch didn’t think of how many days had passed, but the sun had gone up and down a number of times. And she was hungry.

She had a stick, and she was poking at an anthill. Around her, Goblins sat. Or slept. Or ate what they found. Pebblesnatch was hungry, so she’d found an anthill. It was easy food. Even in the dungeon there were ants, and these were big, fat, black ones. They swarmed as Pebblesnatch licked her lips. But occasionally, she’d turn her head to stare at the crates.

The supplies that Emperor Laken Godart and the Humans had left were numerous and useful. Planting seeds, tools for digging, building—everything from nails to canvas and supplies like wood and even pillows. He had left a dozen crates, each one big enough to hold many small Goblins or a few fat ones.

They were so tall Pebblesnatch had to jump a bit to catch the lip! They held everything the Goblins might need. However…

The crates were untouched. The one that had been opened hadn’t been so much as moved. Mildew had engulfed the pillows and the tools on top had a layer of rust on them. Rain and time had done that already. And it was continuing to erode the valuable objects in the crate. But the Goblins hadn’t replaced the lid. The only thing that had been taken was the iPhone. Everything else…

Nothing. Not one pillow, or nail, or axe or even the flour in the sturdy bags. The Goblins had refused to touch any of it.

The first few days had been exploration. Pebblesnatch had wandered with the other Goblins, finding that the [Emperor] had left them a big, big space. There was the base of the mountain there, and if you walked long, long, you’d eventually come to a forest there. And there, a river—

And the wooden totems. They marked the edge of Goblin territory, in every spot. Huge, wooden poles carved with eyes and other carvings. Pebblesnatch was frightened of them. The eyes looked at her. And if you went towards them—the Humans came.

Humans on horses. They’d come and force you to go back. To Goblin land. Somehow, they always knew where you were. You couldn’t outrun them, or hide. Goblins had tried. They were still trying, in fact. A few of them, especially the ones with red stripes. Redfangs.

But the rest just lazed about. If a Goblin was hungry, they found something to eat. If they wanted to sleep, they slept. A few had small projects. Making a club out of a bit of stone and a stick and some twine. Trying to find fish in the river. A few even built crude huts out of wood and such to keep out the rain.

Yet, none of them used the tools. And the Goblins didn’t try anything more ambitious than what was simply necessary to survive. It wasn’t laziness—or rather, it was intentional laziness.

That was what Laken Godart had forgotten. Goblins were intelligent. Even if they weren’t Chieftains, they weren’t animals. He had known that—but he hadn’t counted on how much they understood.

Even Pebblesnatch understood. The Goblins had conferred after they’d figured it out. They were in this place, where Humans wouldn’t go. They’d watch, from afar, sometimes shout or scream, but never come close. And the Goblins were free to do whatever they wanted, except leave. The Human had given them many things.

He wanted them to do…something. What, exactly, was a mystery, even to Ulvama. But the Goblins, knowing the [Emperor]’s desire included them making use of his gifts, had decided universally to do nothing.

Nothing at all. That was a victory, of sorts. All the older Goblins were just sitting around. Pebblesnatch saw a few of them scratching at itches, farting. But nothing more.

The little Cave Goblin was more energetic than they were. She’d gone exploring, but this wasn’t the dungeon. Pebblesnatch wasn’t good at climbing trees—or finding good things to eat in the ground. She didn’t know what growing things were edible. She was a Cave Goblin, and bad at foraging.

But she’d learned. Pebblesnatch, like all Goblins, learned by observation. Now, she’d found an anthill. Pebblesnatch was carefully poking at it with a stick, causing the big, angry black ants to swarm out. She was letting them run up her stick and picking them off, eating them and ignoring their attempts to bite the inside of her mouth. She chewed and made a face as she swallowed.

Bitter. But there were lots of ants, and eggs in the nest. Pebblesnatch could fill her belly on this today. She just…didn’t like it.

Listlessly, Pebblesnatch bit a few more ants off the stick. She might as well eat the stick because the angry ants tasted so bad. Not like good food. Pebblesnatch would have been happy with this meal in the dungeon, especially compared to rotting giant caterpillars or the other things she’d eaten. But she didn’t remember the dungeon.

She remembered food. A sizzling meal, and a kitchen where if you went in, the Human would give you something to eat. Every time, unless she scolded you because you’d had a meal just an hour ago. But you were never…hungry. And it was always good.

Erin Solstice.

Pebblesnatch’s head rose. She looked at the crates—and then realized the ants were swarming up her legs. The Cave Goblin hopped up, shouting and brushing the ants off as they bit her.

A few Goblins around Pebblesnatch grinned or chuckled as the Cave Goblin retreated from the nest. Pebblesnatch grumbled. Stupid ants! They weren’t worth the meal. She—she wanted something else.

“Hey Pebblesnatch, wanna cookie? Or how about some pasta?”

The Cave Goblin could just remember Erin saying it. Her head turned, as if Erin was waiting with food. She had come into the Cave Goblin’s cave. And just…cooked. Pebblesnatch still remembered the sound of food sizzling in the pan, the first time she’d ever had a bite of something that hot and good.

The little Cave Goblin’s mouth watered. She looked around. She’d found roots to eat, and bugs, and even, once, seen a rat-thing in the trees. But she couldn’t catch any of it! And when she did eat something it was raw.

Raw! Not hot and good! Pebblesnatch kicked at the ground in frustration. She had eaten cooked food! She didn’t need stupid bugs! She wanted an egg! Hot! Sizzling! But how could she make that?

Pebblesnatch could cook. She was a [Cook]. But she didn’t have a frying pan, or even a knife to cut things with. There were some in the crates, but…

Pebblesnatch looked a third time. She saw a group lounging around the crates. One of them was the male Hob.

The Redfang. Pebblesnatch eyed him warily. He wasn’t Headscratcher or Rabbiteater. She didn’t know who he was. But he belonged to another tribe, and she was wary of him.

The Humans thought Goblins were Goblins. But that was because they didn’t know Goblins.

These were the Goblins who had lived. And they were not one homogenous group as the Humans would have assumed. They were in fact, varied and different. There were four groups, and Pebblesnatch knew them all now.

The first was the Flooded Waters tribe, who were formed of many Goblin tribes and those who had abandoned other tribes to join the small Chieftain, Rags. Most intelligent—two had already made primitive bows.

Like all the Goblins, they had decided not to do anything, but a few had miniature projects going on, like a Goblin busily mashing up some fish, or one collecting rocks and breaking them up to see what lay inside.

The second was the Mountain City tribe. Laziest of the Goblins, but also the most well-fed. They were good fighters, and they knew words best. They’d been the ones who’d made the huts, as if sleeping out in the open was a problem. Ulvama was one of them and she was…Ulvama. She had the biggest hut to herself, and had forced the other Goblins to build it for her.

The third group, and the one occupying the space around the crate were the Redfangs. They were the most confusing to Pebblesnatch. Some had been part of the Flooded Waters Tribe, but others had been just…Redfangs. But now, they had all come together again.

They were the smallest group by far—barely eight. But they were all the strongest at fighting. There were only three Hobs who’d survived the battle. Two of them were Redfangs.

Perhaps, perhaps if some of the other Goblins, especially the Mountain City tribe had a chance, they might have snuck supplies from the crates. But the Redfangs had camped around the crates and no one was going to fight them. They were too strong.

The last most numerous, and most disorganized group was the Cave Goblins. They were smaller, greyer in skin tone. They had known little of the outside world, and they had less of anything than the other tribes. They could fight, and they had been taught by Hobs who were the best. But they were still the least of the others. Pebblesnatch was a Cave Goblin.

All of them milled about. They did tend to stick to their groups, but it wasn’t a hard-and-fast rule, just necessity. And the Cave Goblins were leaderless. Pebblesnatch was just one of many; another Cave Goblin had already taken her anthill and was filling his belly.

It was peaceful, here. There hadn’t been many fights. Goblins in a tribe did not in-fight, almost as a rule. They obeyed the Chieftain, and that was that. If two tribes fought, it was seldom ever to the death. One tribe invariably gave way to the other.

That was how it normally was, but here were four tribes all without a Chieftain, and the Mountain City tribe was also very different in that they did fight each other. And the Cave Goblins had known only the Raskghar as masters for almost all their lives. So a few squabbles had erupted at the start.

They’d all been crushed by the three Hobs. Pebblesnatch stared at the two sitting with the Redfangs. Two Hobs, male and female. When a Mountain City Goblin had fought in a group with her friends with some Flooded Water Goblins, the two Hobs had walked over and smacked heads and stopped the fight instantly. Same as Ulvama—no one could oppose the [Shaman].

The three Hobs were in charge. Because they were Hobs. But what were they in charge of?

Nothing.

The others were dead. All of them. Pebblesnatch had seen it. She had seen the Goblin with the crimson blade fall. Seen the Goblin Lord die. Seen the rout as the Humans swept across the Floodplains.

All dead. Pebblesnatch had known it, but she still didn’t…understand it. Even after all that time in the wagons. And now, with space to themselves, the other Goblins looked equally…

Empty. The Redfangs didn’t even move. They just sat, staring ahead. So still, they might have been dead. They’d made weapons when they first came here, assembling them out of stone and wood within the hour. But now they were statues. Their leader was gone. Their tribe was gone.

Some of the other Goblins were moving, listlessly eating or sitting and throwing stones, but there was…nothing. If anything, it was only the Cave Goblins who were moving about. Like Pebblesnatch. She couldn’t have said why. She’d experienced the same.

She’d seen Headscratcher die. Felt him die. She didn’t know about Rabbiteater, or…or Shorthilt, or Badarrow, or Numbtongue or the rest. But she thought she knew. She knew what she’d seen.

It left an emptiness in her chest. Desolation. And yet—Pebblesnatch wasn’t just sitting around. Something still called to her. Something—the desire to eat something hot and nice again.

The Cave Goblin found herself sidling over to the crates. The other Goblins barely looked at her. And the Redfangs were unmoving. Pebblesnatch, encouraged, peered into the crates.

There! She saw rusty tools, sacks of food. Pebblesnatch furtively pulled herself up, staring into the crate. She saw an iron pan, right there. And a ladle! And was that salt? A bag of it, surely. Pebblesnatch sniffed. There was food. She slowly reached into the crate—

A huge hand grabbed Pebblesnatch. She shouted in alarm. One of the Redfang Hobs had risen! He was a big Hob, as big as Headscratcher. Not as strong, perhaps, but his body was covered with the red paint, lines and lines of it. Markings for the dead. He stared down at Pebblesnatch as she struggled, panicked. The Hob shook his head.

“No.”

He tossed Pebblesnatch away. She went flying and screamed—then she bounced off the grass and lay there, winded. It hadn’t been a hard throw. Raskghar could throw you into the ground so hard you never moved again. The Cave Goblin was on her feet in a moment.

She stared at the Hob who’d thrown her. The only male Hobgoblin of the three survivors. Now, he sat with his back against the crates. Daring anyone to touch.

Pebblesnatch stomped over to the Hob. She pointed at the crate.

“Give!”

The word was rusty, coming from her throat. Goblins didn’t communicate with words, usually. They could read each other’s body language. But the different tribes weren’t used to each other, even after all this time. The Hobgoblin stared at Pebblesnatch.

“No.”

His entire body radiated the word. The multiple nuances made themselves clear to Pebblesnatch. No, no, and no. No giving the Humans what they wanted. No point. Go eat ants.

Pebblesnatch glared at the Hob. She was tired of eating ants! And—her anger outweighed her good sense. So she did something she’d never have dared to do to a Raskghar.

She kicked dirt at him. The male Hob shielded his face and scowled. Pebblesnatch shook a fist, prepared to run if he was going to smack her. But the Hob just glared.

“Give! Food!”

“No.”

Pebblesnatch raised her foot to kick dirt. The Hob retaliated by throwing dirt in her face first. The Cave Goblin stumbled away, howling. The male Hobgoblin waited as Pebblesnatch ran off to the river to wash her face. Then another Goblin moved.

The brief scuffle had roused another of the comatose Redfangs. The second Hob. She was female, like Ulvama, but a [Warrior]. As Pebblesnatch came back, she saw the second Hob moving, rising.

The female Hob stood up slowly. Pebblesnatch eyed her warily. But the Hob dismissed her with only one glance. Instead, she went over to one of the Flooded Waters Goblins. She poked the little Goblin and spoke. The two conferred, and Pebblesnatch saw the female Hob straighten with something.

One of the two makeshift bows. It was a shortbow, and small for her. But she checked the crude string, seemed satisfied by the sharpened wood arrow. She shrugged as the Flooded Waters Goblin pointed at it.

It would do.

Then she came over to the male Hob. He was looking at her curiously. The female Hob pointed past Pebblesnatch, to the forest. The Cave Goblin watched warily as the two Hobs conferred, all in shrugs and nods and points.

No words needed. The Redfangs had their own hand signals. At first the male Hob disagreed, pointing down. ‘I’m staying here’. But the female Hob talked him into it by kicking him in the chest. Then he rose with a grunt.

He had a stone axe. Mostly blunt, but sturdy, the kind of thing you could bash a skull in with. He got it and Pebblesnatch fled. But he wasn’t using it on her.

The female Hob stared at Pebblesnatch as the male harrumphed and glanced in the direction she wanted him to go. The male Hob stomped back with his axe. He pointed at Pebblesnatch and the female Hob shrugged. She looked around, and pointed.

The two Hobs wandered off. Pebblesnatch edged over to the open crate, but another of the Redfangs looked up. She froze as he looked at her. And then the two Hobs came back.

They put the lid back on the crate and then—to Pebblesnatch’s horror—the male picked up a huge rock. Grunting, he dropped it on the crate. Then he nodded and walked off with the female Hob towards the forest.

Pebblesnatch was furious. She stared at the rock on the crate. As soon as they were gone, Pebblesnatch climbed onto the crate and tried to push the rock off. None of the Redfangs stopped her, although they watched.

The little Cave Goblin pushed, but the stone was too heavy. And none of the others would help her. She tried the other crates, but they were nailed shut and she needed a lever or something to open them. Like an axe, which was in the crate.

Sulking, Pebblesnatch gave up. She walked over to some grass and flopped down on it, face-first. She was so mad she forgot her hunger. For a while. Then she was hungry. And sad. She wanted to eat something warm!

And as if Erin had heard her, Pebblesnatch heard a murmur run through the Goblins about an hour after the two Hobs had left. The Cave Goblin sat up and saw them returning.

They had a dead deer. The other Goblins stared. The two Redfangs trooped over, the male carrying the deer while the female wandered over with a rabbit and the bow slung over one shoulder.

She’d used the crude bow well. Pebblesnatch saw how the deer had been hit in the hindquarters, the rabbit in the side. And then—the male Hob’s stone axe was bloodied. And the deer’s head was bashed in.

You didn’t need to be a [Hunter] to figure out what had happened. But Pebblesnatch was still awed. None of the other Goblins had brought in game this big. They’d caught smaller creatures, but this was huge. And—was it good?

The Hobs tossed their food down near the crates. The other Redfangs blinked at them. The female Hob pointed. One of the Redfangs with a sharp stone bent over the deer. Pebblesnatch saw the female Redfang begin slicing open the deer, revealing red meat. And blood.

They were butchering the deer. But were they going to eat it…raw? Pebblesnatch had a thing about raw meat. But something else caught her eye.

It was warm in the summer, so there was no need for fires. But now, two of the smaller Redfangs got up and walked into the forest. They came back quickly with dead branches, brush. Tinder. They formed a quick campfire, and the two Hobs grunted at each other. One produced a sharpened stick. They’d have to start a fire that way—

A Flooded Waters Goblin wandered over. He poked the male Hob energetically whirling the sharpened stick on a bit of wood and causing smoke. The male Hob stopped as the other Goblin handed him a bit of flint. The Hob stared at it and the second stone.

Then he struck and sparks flashed. The other Goblins murmured. And Pebblesnatch heard a word circulating amongst the Flooded Waters tribe.

“Goldstone.”

Apparently, the Flooded Waters Goblin was a stone expert—one of the Goldstone tribe Goblins. He looked pleased with himself as the fire started with ease. The Redfangs nodded at him and invited him to join the cooking circle.

Because that was what it was. Pebblesnatch jostled with other Goblins on the periphery. The Redfangs weren’t going to eat the deer raw. They were roasting it over a fire, grunting and arguing with each other.

The Redfangs were clearly used to preparing meat, and the other six, smaller Goblins were arguing with the Hob. Pebblesnatch stared as one small Goblin kept shoving the big male Hob out of the way because he was overdoing the meat. Eventually, the big Hob gave up and let the other Redfangs handle the cooking.

They were…decent. They roasted bits of the deer on rocks, sticks, putting it near the embers, over the flames. The Goblins did it just to crisp parts of the meat—then they ate it, mostly rare. No seasoning, no nothing.

Even so—Pebblesnatch’s stomach was rumbling. She saw all the Redfangs and the stone expert chomping down on meat. It was the first big meat meal any Goblin had had. And cooked! The two Hobs alone ate half the deer to Pebblesnatch’s dismay. But the Redfangs weren’t heartless.

They ate, and then tossed the seared meat at the other Goblins. Instantly, a fight broke out as the other three tribes began fighting for the precious meat. The Redfangs didn’t seem to care too much as Goblins fought, rolling around for the hot food.

Pebblesnatch grabbed at one piece and three other Goblins knocked her over. The little Cave Goblin punched a leg and got a kick in her stomach. Furiously, she bit a leg and a Goblin screamed.

The two Hobs seemed to be debating wading into the fight to stop it, when an authoritative voice rang out.

“Stop!”

Ulvama emerged from her hut and all the Goblins…kept fighting. The [Shaman] stared at them, then strode over. Pebblesnatch, avoiding the sea of feet, crawled clear to see that Ulvama had spent her time on her own project.

Her body paint was fresh. Somehow, the [Shaman] had renewed the exotic colors on her body, which shone with more than just pigment. A bit of magic. Also—she’d created a tool.

She had a crude, wooden stave. Just a long branch, cut down into a staff. But it was a symbol of her authority. She strode into the fighting and raised it high. Pebblesnatch and some of the other Goblins who’d gotten out of the melee watched as Ulvama raised her staff.

They stared. Was she going to do magic—?

Ulvama brought it down on the nearest Goblin’s shoulders. She smacked the others around her, and they fled as she lashed out. The [Shaman] laid about her with shouts of wrath and the fighting Goblins broke up. She was merciless, and the few Goblins who decided to take her on got a kick in the face, or a thwack.

“Obey!”

Ulvama thundered at them. The [Shaman] raised her staff and the other Goblins meekly backed up. She pointed towards the Redfangs. Bemused, they looked at her.

“Form a line. There! Now!”

Goblins fell into place as Ulvama bullied them with her staff and words. Soon, it was organized. Ulvama got a large portion of meat, and the other Goblins who obeyed her. The others got scraps. That was how the Mountain City tribe did it.

Pebblesnatch got her meat without being kicked. She stared down at the small morsel in dismay. It was hot, and it was meat, but it was—Pebblesnatch’s face fell as she chewed it. It wasn’t nice. Not like the food Erin made. Erin’s food had taste. Spices. Seasoning.

And there wasn’t enough. Ulvama had her meal, but the other Goblins whined. She silenced them by lifting her staff. They’d all got something, hadn’t they? Even if it was less than a bite. And the Goblins who hadn’t seen the meal didn’t get anything at all.

The Redfangs watched coolly. They’d killed the deer, but they were full. They stared at Ulvama as she approached them. The [Shaman] paused and ground her staff into the ground. She talked with the two Hobs as the Redfangs gathered around. Pebblesnatch watched, finding some crickets to eat. If she had been cooking, she’d have…

That night, Ulvama went to work. With staff in hand, she struck a deal. The Redfangs agreed to hunt. And in return, they got a hut. No—three. Ulvama ejected the Mountain City Goblins. The other Goblins were not happy, but they would get meat that the Redfangs hunted. The Redfangs would get huts they could nap in. And they would eat what they killed, and the Mountain City Goblins who made the huts, and Ulvama, of course.

It was a…system. Pebblesnatch saw Ulvama talking with the male Hob and female. Smiling. They were aloof, but the [Shaman] was being friendly. She was respectful to the Redfangs. She didn’t kick or shout at them. Because they had power.

The two Hobs had names, Pebblesnatch learned from another Goblin. The female was called Leafarmor and the male Hob was called Raidpear. Pebblesnatch didn’t ask why. They were good names. Self-explanatory. Almost as good as hers. She still hated Raidpear for not letting her near the crates.

That night, Pebblesnatch listened to her belly grumble. She’d eaten crickets, but it wasn’t good food. So she crept away from the camps at night. There were now three fires, or the embers of them. Which was something. But…

Pebblesnatch went to the forest. She had a hiding spot there. She’d buried the white, mangled pillow under some leaves. And her special stone was there too. Pebblesnatch took the mana stone now. And she went over to her project.

A slab of bark lay propped against one tree trunk. It was…well, it was just a sheet of wood. And barely that. Pebblesnatch’s fingers and nails hurt from peeling the bark and tying it together with long bits of grass. The crude door was just big enough for her. But it was done.

Pebblesnatch’s heart pounded in her chest. She slowly raised the little, red stone and put it in a small groove she’d hollowed with her nails in the bark door. It fit loosely into place. Pebblesnatch moved the door against the tree, waited, and then stared at it.

The door shone with a red glow in the night. The Cave Goblin looked around, and then swung it open with one claw.

“Inn!”

Nothing happened. Pebblesnatch stared at the door. She stared at the mana stone. It still glowed, but—nothing happened.

The Cave Goblin faltered. She looked at the door. But it was fine! It happened like this. Hopefully, she kept the door open. It would open soon. That was how it worked.

Pebblesnatch waited in front of the door. She paced back and forth. Then sat. After a while, she went to get some water to drink. Pee. Find a few plants to eat. She kept hurrying back to stare at the door.

But it never changed. And hours passed. Pebblesnatch didn’t sleep that night. When she jerked out of a dozing state as the sun hit her face, she stared at the door.

It was still just a blank door, leaning against the tree. Pebblesnatch stared at the red gem. She pried it out of the door. The Cave Goblin stared at it.

She shook. Her eyes filled up. Pebblesnatch punched the tree and cried out. She took the little glowing stone and raised it to hurl on to the ground. She trembled—but she didn’t throw it. Instead, she put it in the door. Then she curled up. Wrapping her arms around her head.

Pebblesnatch slept.





Rock Day



Pebblesnatch didn’t want to do anything when she woke up with the sun overhead. She felt bad. The door was still not working. So she went back to the main Goblin camp. And stared.

It was much different. Goblins were moving about, not sitting aimlessly. The Mountain City tribe was making more crude huts. The Redfangs had already caught two squirrels and a duck. They were roasting them by the fire.

Pebblesnatch’s mouth watered. She went over, but the Redfangs shooed her away. Not for her. There was a queue now, and Pebblesnatch wasn’t allowed meat. She stomped away.

“You.”

A clawed hand grabbed Pebblesnatch. The other Goblin whirled. She stared up. Ulvama had beads in her hair. Precious trinkets salvaged from raids. Carved gems. The [Shaman] glared at Pebblesnatch.

“Level. Tell.”

She wanted to know Pebblesnatch’s level? The Cave Goblin folded her arms, looking past Ulvama at the meat. The [Shaman] ground a fist into Pebblesnatch’s head and pulled at the Cave Goblin’s ear.

“Tell.”

Shouting unhappily, Pebblesnatch did. She was a [Grabber], which was apparently like a [Scavenger], but for Goblins. And a [Cook], and [Hider]. All told, she had over thirteen levels total. Which was high for a Cave Goblin!

Triumphantly, Pebblesnatch slapped her chest. She pointed at the fire. Ulvama just stared at Pebblesnatch and poked her with the staff.

“No. Go find things. Come back and put it there. Find good things, you get meat. Understand? Go.”

She poked Pebblesnatch. The Cave Goblin pointed at the fire. Ulvama shook her head.

“Don’t need [Cook]. Go. Go!”

She jabbed until Pebblesnatch went. The Cave Goblin was furious, but she saw Ulvama stopping another Goblin. The [Shaman] was going around demanding each Goblin’s classes and levels, putting them to work.

Well—well—Pebblesnatch looked for some dirt to throw at Ulvama. But one warning look from the [Shaman] made Pebblesnatch drop the dirt innocently. She went off and looked for things.



—-



Pebblesnatch found a shiny rock. By the river. It was worn by the water, and shiny. Not with gemstones or anything—it was just generally shiny, smooth, if you held it up to the light. Pebblesnatch admired it, smiling.

She was good at finding rocks. That was why she had her name. The Raskghar had made her find shiny things in the dungeon. They liked shiny things. Pebblesnatch splashed in the water aimlessly as she looked for more rocks. She didn’t know what to do, really.

She wasn’t used to the outdoors. None of the Cave Goblins were. They were learning, but they had lived their entire life in the dungeon. As such, they were hungriest here, and not given much meat—if any. They struggled even to catch fish, or find nests, or plants.

Pebblesnatch grew tired of her shiny rock after a while. She found another one, but it wasn’t as nice. The first one was a lovely, mottled blue; the second orange-ish. Pebblesnatch put them to one side as she looked for more rocks.

Her stomach rumbled. The Redfangs and other Mountain City Goblins had eaten the bones of the deer the next morning, sucking out all the good marrow. Which meant Pebblesnatch had had to find breakfast. To be fair—it wasn’t hard. The anthill was still there, and there were all kinds of small bugs and things.

But it wasn’t good. And Pebblesnatch knew the other animals being cooked weren’t going to go to her. She wasn’t in charge. If she wanted meat, she had to do what Ulvama said. Find things. So she found a third shiny rock, polished by the riverbed. Good rock.

It wasn’t as shiny as her special rock. But the red mana stone wasn’t working. Absently, Pebblesnatch pulled it out. Why wasn’t it working? Did it need a better door? Was—

Was Erin dead?

The Cave Goblin began to curl up again. But then she heard footsteps. She froze and tried to hide the mana stone, but it was too late.

“You!”

Ulvama scowled as she found Pebblesnatch by the river. She pointed.

“Find things.”

Pebblesnatch pointed indignantly. She had! Some of the other Goblins were fishing, but look what she’d found!

The [Shaman] stared as Pebblesnatch hid her mana stone behind her back and offered the three shiny stones. Ulvama picked them up in her palm, eyed the way the light flickered off each smooth stone. Then she turned and hurled them into the distance.

“Not rocks! Things! Food! Wood!”

Pebblesnatch was outraged! She charged Ulvama and punched one leg. The [Shaman] promptly smacked her with a fist. Pebblesnatch sat down. She flopped over as Ulvama poked her.

Her stomach was empty and she hated Ulvama. The Cave Goblin curled up into a stubborn ball. Ulvama eyed Pebblesnatch. She began to roll the Cave Goblin into the river—then sighed. She fished around and Pebblesnatch felt something drop on her head. She uncurled and glared—

Then stared as she saw a charred bone. Filled with marrow. Pebblesnatch sat up. Ulvama glared.

“Eat. Eat.”

She poked Pebblesnatch. The Cave Goblin snatched the bone. It was full of food! She stared at Ulvama. The [Shaman] glared. Slowly, Pebblesnatch lifted the bone up, cracking the burnt bone.,

Good marrow. Pebblesnatch sucked it out of the bone greedily, and then chomped on the bone itself. Ulvama smacked her lightly again.

“Give bone. Mine!”

She snatched it back. Pebblesnatch licked her lips. Why did Ulvama need bone? She tilted her head and Ulvama glared.

“[Shaman].”

She poked her own chest. Pebblesnatch shrugged. It didn’t mean anything to her. The Hobgoblin stared. She pointed at the paint.

“Magic.”

Pebblesnatch shrugged again. Like wands? Raskghar didn’t have [Shamans]. Neither did Cave Goblins. Ulvama shook her head. She stared at Pebblesnatch—then her eyes narrowed. She pointed.

“What’s that? Give.”

Pebblesnatch froze. Caught off-guard by the food, she’d forgotten to hide her red mana stone. She tried to hide it again, but Ulvama had seen it.

“Give.”

The Cave Goblin tried to run, Ulvama grabbed her and a struggle ensued.

The skirmish was short and one-sided. It ended with Ulvama studying the crimson gem as she planted one foot on Pebblesnatch’s back, pressing the Cave Goblin into the grass. Pebblesnatch shouted and tried to heave Ulvama off her, but the Hobgoblin was…a Hob. Even if she was a [Shaman]. And Pebblesnatch was small.

Ulvama eyed the mana stone, peering at it suspiciously. Pebblesnatch shouted furiously. Give it back! Ulvama eyed the mana stone. She nearly put it in her crude deer hide pouch, but Pebblesnatch screamed so loudly that the [Shaman] made an exasperated sound.

“Worthless. Weak. Keep.”

She dropped the mana stone in the water. Pebblesnatch leapt for it before the current could carry it away. Ulvama pointed as the wet Cave Goblin glared at her.

“Find food. Wood! Sticks! Go! Go! Not useless rocks!”

She walked off as Pebblesnatch threw the useless rocks after the Hobgoblin, not quite daring to hit her. The Cave Goblin screamed at Ulvama’s back.

She was mean! But she’d also given Pebblesnatch food, and prevented other Mountain City Goblins from picking on her and the other Cave Goblins. She was…something to Pebblesnatch.

Not motherly. Pebblesnatch vaguely remembered…something. But if someone had explained the concept of ‘mother’ as opposed to ‘parent’ to her, she would have only given the person—Erin—a blank look. Because Erin was the person that Pebblesnatch would have thought of.

Not of her actual parents. Pebblesnatch only had a vague memory of a Goblin who had held a baby Goblin. Until a Raskghar killed the big Goblin and the baby had to live or die. She didn’t feel sad when she thought of that. Just…her.

Goblin stories were always like that. The only time Pebblesnatch wanted to cry or curl up was when she thought of the inn, of Rabbiteater. Because that had been different. Good times.

And this? This was just another part of a Goblin story. Pebblesnatch walked off, melancholy. She found some worms in the mud. Ulvama approved of that, at least.



—-



That night, Pebblesnatch wasn’t allowed to have much meat. But she got some. And Ulvama let the other Goblins sit around the fire. The food gathered was shared—with the best going to Ulvama and the ones she’d decided got it. But Pebblesnatch, dozing by the fire, was still able to hear the Redfangs discussing with some of the older Goblins.

Five had gone out yesterday. All had been caught. Some of the Goblins kept trying to find a way to leave their territory without being seen. But it was impossible.

The Redfang [Scout] glared as she traced in the ground with her stone dagger.

“No use. That way?”

She pointed. Another Flooded Waters Goblin scowled.

“No. Humans. [Riders]. Too fast.”

Raidpear, the male Hobgoblin, frowned. He hefted the stone axe he’d been further refining and glanced at the Goblins who’d tried to escape?

“Fast-death? Fast-fast death?”

The Flooded Waters tribe Goblin shrugged.

“Fast. Fought—see in dark. Good eyes.”

They were sharing information about the Humans. This was new. Pebblesnatch crawled closer as she listened to them trade information. The Redfangs were just as worried about being attacked as they were about escaping. Well, the issues went hand-in-hand.

Some had clashed with the Humans here. Pebblesnatch furtively eavesdropped as she gathered ant eggs from her hill. The Redfangs said they were good. Could use poison, see in dark—Pebblesnatch listened wide-eyed. They had a Troll!

That news intrigued Raidpear and Leafarmor. The two Hobs leaned in. The female Hobgoblin inquired as she checked her stone spear.

“Good?”

The Flooded Water Goblin shrugged.

“Almost beat Pyrite.”

Leafarmor had no idea who that was, but apparently Raidpear had been a defector to the Flooded Waters tribe. Which meant he and Leafarmor had been enemies, and now they were in the same tribe, they were…confusing. Either way, he made a face.

“What death?”

Leafarmor looked at Raidpear. He frowned, calculating.

“Goldstone Chieftain. Was strong. Strong as Redscar. Maybe. Stronger than Spiderslicer.”

“No.”

She glared at him. Raidpear nodded.

“Strong.”

Leafarmor stared. Raidpear nodded again. She frowned, grunted, began sharpening the tip of her spear even more. The other warriors looked at each other.

“Hard to kill. Humans come—all die. Fast, helpless death.”

One of the Flooded Waters Tribe Goblin announced cheerfully. The Redfangs barely looked up. They all nodded. Pebblesnatch saw one of the Goblins stir.

Ulvama. She leaned in, her bare skin glittering by firelight. Her paint was glowing. She looked at the Redfangs.

“We should not fight the Humans. We should escape. Send more Goblins to find a way.”

Her words were in the common tongue. The Mountain City tribe eschewed using the Goblin’s language. As if that made them better. The Redfangs and other warriors glanced at Ulvama. The Redfangs looked especially…blasé. Ulvama seemed to realize her words lacked weight. She drew herself up, clutching her staff.

“I am the [Shaman] of the Mountain City tribe. Shaman of the Great Chieftain, Tremborag.”

“Was.”

One of the Flooded Waters Goblins put in helpfully. Ulvama kicked at him. Pebblesnatch just stared.

What did a [Shaman] do? She had no idea, besides boss people around. Neither, it seemed, did many of the Goblins except for Ulvama’s old tribe. Indignantly, Ulvama pointed at the Redfangs reluctant to accept her authority.

“All Goblin tribes have [Shaman]! Must have! For memory! Magic! Names!”

“Not Flooded Waters tribe.”

“Not Redfangs. Don’t need.”

Pebblesnatch nodded.

Not the Cave Goblins. They didn’t even have Hobs. Ulvama looked around, incredulous. Then she scowled. She raised her staff, and her eyes flashed.

“[Shamans] have magic!”

She brought down the butt of the staff. And the fire in front of her roared upwards. Pebblesnatch shouted in alarm and the Goblins rolled away as a pillar of flame shot up into the sky.

Just for a second. Then the fire resumed its regular burn. The Redfangs stared at Ulvama. So did Raidpear and Leafarmor. They traded glances. A bit more respectfully, the Goblins returned to the fire.

Pebblesnatch stared at Ulvama in awe. The [Shaman] folded her arms.

“Send Goblins to search. I will use magic to hide them.”

Raidpear and Leafarmor conferred. At last, Leafarmor nodded. She poked at the Redfang [Scout]. She pointed.

“Go that way?”

The Redfang female nodded, eying Ulvama warily. Raidpear agreed.

“You. You. You. Go.”

He pointed.

Three Goblins left, all in different directions. Ulvama stopped the Redfang [Scout]. She did—something. Pebblesnatch saw her smearing some ash and dirt over the squirming Redfang, smacking her when she moved. It didn’t look like magic, but…Pebblesnatch realized Ulvama came back to the fire alone. She never saw the [Scout] leave.

The Goblins who ran off into the darkness, to try and escape the Humans again. They returned within the hour, to shouting. Three of them had been caught, within minutes of crossing into Human territory. The Humans were vigilant.

But the Redfang [Scout] didn’t return with them. The Redfangs stirred, and the two Hobs looked at Ulvama. She smiled smugly—for all of twenty minutes. Then the Redfang [Scout] reappeared, scowling.

“[Riders]. Humans. Found. Pointy Human found.”

She stomped back into the camp. Ulvama stared at her.

“How?”

“Pointy Human.”

The Redfang glared. Some Human with the [Riders] had found her, even with Ulvama’s magic. She’d pointed—and the mud had fallen off. Ulvama inspected the [Scout]. The mud she’d smeared on the Redfang had flaked away. The [Shaman] was confused as she demanded to know what a ‘pointy Human’ was. Then—Pebblesnatch heard a curse.

“Witch.”

It was bad news to Ulvama, no one else. The Redfangs conferred. The problem was the wooden totems, apparently. One of the Flooded Waters tribe Goblins spat as he pointed at the nearest one.

“That. Bad thing. Sees. Chieftain burned many. Sees.”

“Can’t run.”

The two Hobs looked at each other. Ulvama was cursing the pointy Human. Pebblesnatch watched the older Goblins conferring in quiet voices and came to a startling realization.

They had no idea what to do.





Day of Much Talking



One day, the iPhone ran out of power. Which was a terrible thing.

The Goblins had refused to touch anything from the crates that the [Emperor] had given them. Except for the iPhone. There was no real reason for it. They’d refused to give the Human what he wanted—whatever it was—but the iPhone was different.

It was beautiful. It could do so many things. It had a strange light. It played…music. It even had a voice.

A Human would speak if you talked to her. Sometimes…sometimes, Pebblesnatch saw Goblins who got to use the iPhone making her say things. Stupid things. Insults—mostly to herself. Like ‘Humans are all stupid’. Childish things.

One time, a young Goblin was playing with the iPhone. Pebblesnatch, waiting to use it, heard the female voice—Siri—speaking.

“Good Goblin. You are a good Goblin.”

The voice made Pebblesnatch look up. She stared at the Goblin. Then—she saw an older Goblin furiously grab the phone and punch the young Goblin.

Events like that were rare, though. The Goblins took good care of the iPhone. They weren’t about to let it rust or break. In fact, it had a significance beyond just entertainment.

All the Redfangs took a turn with it. In private. Pebblesnatch crept up and saw Raidpear sitting alone with it. The Hobgoblin was muttering to it. Pausing, speaking.

He was recording something. The Goblins had figured countless functions of the iPhone. Laken had few apps—like games. But what he did have, like the game with the weird bird with lips was entertaining.

But Raidpear wasn’t playing a game or a song. He was…reciting names.

“Garen Redfang. Spiderslicer. Pyrite. Goldsword. Goatbane. Blackspots…”

It took Pebblesnatch a while to realize they were all names. Names of Goblins. A list of the dead. It took Raidpear a long time, and when he did, he saved the file, brought it back, and let another Goblin have a turn.

That was all. But it made sense to Pebblesnatch. When they were all dead, the iPhone would probably remain. It was valuable.

So it made it all the more frightening when the iPhone died. One day, it was simply blank. The Goblins had seen the power bar going down, but they hadn’t realized what would happen when it ran out. Up till now, the [Emperor] had always demanded it back.

There was chaos in the Goblin camp. They were all arguing, trying the power button, punching the unlucky Goblin who’d had it last. But they all came to the same conclusion. It had run out of power.

Ulvama was found. But the [Shaman] told the Goblins the iPhone didn’t need magic. And she had no idea how to repair it. The Goblins milled about disconsolately.

And if…by magic, or intention, a Human appeared on the border of the camp. He was alone. A young man with a sword sheathed by his side.

Nevertheless, his presence at the edge of Goblin territory created a stir. Every Redfang found their weapon. Raidpear, Leafarmor, and Ulvama all went to see what the Human wanted with the warriors. Pebblesnatch held back.

“Goblins!”

The Human had a loud voice. He didn’t bellow at any one Goblin, but at all of them. Gamel shouted, not staring at the three Hobs watching him silently. There were Humans behind him. On horses. Just…watching. In case the Goblins attacked?

“His Majesty, Emperor Godart has graciously allowed you…Goblins the opportunity to trade.”

Pebblesnatch listened to the nonsensical words. Gamel went on.

“To recharge the device his Majesty has loaned you, he is willing to make a trade.”

He wanted something to fix the iPhone. The Goblins looked at each other. Raidpear stared at Leafarmor. Then the Hob walked over to the crates. He pushed the heavy rock off the top. Then he reached into the crate.

Gamel stared as the Hobgoblin came back. The [Knight] backed up as Raidpear walked forwards. The Hobgoblin stopped at the edge of Goblin territory. Then he tossed his armful of goods on the ground.

They were all tools from the crates. All unused, some with a bit of rust. Gamel stared. Raidpear pointed. Then he put the iPhone down then strode back towards the Goblin territory. The Human stared at them. He had to go away and came back after twenty minutes.

“His Majesty desires something else of value. Have you Goblins nothing to trade?”

The Goblins looked at each other. Meat? Hides? Rocks? Ulvama glanced at Pebblesnatch and the Cave Goblin warily backed up. But none of the Goblins moved.

Raidpear looked at Leafarmor. The two Hobs nodded. Then, as one, they turned and walked away. Ulvama hesitated, but then she followed.

Gamel was left standing there. He stared at the iPhone, at the Goblins, and then whirled away. Pebblesnatch heard him cursing the Goblins as he left.

Only after all the Humans had gone for a while did Raidpear carefully collect the dead iPhone. He seemed…satisfied as he stowed it carefully in one of the Redfang huts. So that was what the [Emperor] wanted? The Goblins refused to give it to him.

Simple as that. The other Goblins broke up. They weren’t happy about the dead iPhone, but that was that. Ulvama kept staring after Gamel, as if trying to figure out something.

And Pebblesnatch? The Cave Goblin stared at the spot where Gamel had been. Not at the angry, shouty Human. But at what Raidpear had pulled out of the crates.

One of the things Raidpear had pulled out was a metal ladle. And he’d forgotten to put the rock back on the crate. This was her chance. Pebblesnatch crept over to the pile of tools. She didn’t need the hammer, or anything else. She grabbed the ladle. It wasn’t even that badly rusted! She just needed a pot and—

“Stop!”

Ulvama seized her. The [Shaman] had spotted her! Pebblesnatch shouted in alarm and tried to run, but the Hobgoblin grabbed the hand holding the ladle.

“No touching. Give it to me!”

Pebblesnatch hung on, but the female Hobgoblin was strong. She was going to take it! But Pebblesnatch needed it! She wanted—

She wanted to cook! The little Cave Goblin screamed in fury. She was tired of it! Tired of eating bland food! Tired of being bossed about!

She opened her mouth. Ulvama jerked her hand back as Pebblesnatch bit. The little Cave Goblin’s jaws snapped shut an inch away from Ulvama’s fingertips. The [Shaman] let go as Pebblesnatch bit again. She didn’t have her staff. Pebblesnatch raised the ladle like a club.

“Stop!”

The Redfangs emerged from their huts and watched as Pebblesnatch attacked Ulvama, biting and spitting. The [Shaman] glowered, but she wasn’t quite willing to deck Pebblesnatch. She was getting there, but she backed up. The Redfangs grinned. They were greatly entertained by the scene.

Before Ulvama decided to kick her, Pebblesnatch feinted, swinging at the [Shaman]’s belly and then turned and ran. She raced over to the crates. Before anyone could stop her, Pebblesnatch leapt in.

The crates were fill of pillows, and tools! Pebblesnatch had only one desire, though. She looked around. Where…?

Pan! She snatched the cast-iron pan, adding to her other hand. Pebblesnatch looked around, but this wasn’t the crate with food things. She clambered out as Ulvama stormed over.

“Stop!”

The [Shaman] grabbed at her. Now the other Redfangs—including Raidpear—were coming over. Pebblesnatch saw them pointing.

She fled. The other Goblins chased her, but Pebblesnatch ran hard and fast. She reached the forest before the Goblins could catch her. Then she hid.

Cave Goblins were excellent at hiding. And Pebblesnatch had her hiding place. She squeezed into a narrow trunk as the slower, bigger Goblins thundered after her and failed to spot her, hidden. They searched for a while, then gave up. It was only two tools. And they had better things to do. After all, what could Pebblesnatch do with them?

Everything.



—-



She had cooking things! Pebblesnatch regarded her haul as she emerged from her hiding space. She put them on the ground and studied them. She had…

A frying pan. And a ladle. Pebblesnatch’s face fell. Neither tool exactly went with the other. But—it was something.

You needed a surface to cook on. Almost more than you needed any other tool, having something flat that you could hold was important. Well, spices were important, and oil, and knives, and…cooking was a lot of work.

But this called to Pebblesnatch. Slowly, she picked up the pan. Tapped it with one claw. And Pebblesnatch looked into her hiding spot.

She’d almost forgotten her second possession. It was all crumpled up. Dirty, from being used as a pillow from so many days. It had lost its floof.

But Pebblesnatch pulled it out now. She dusted it off, beat it into shape. And it rose.

Dirty white. A high, mushroom-like headdress. Almost comedic—a toque blanche. Not even Erin used it, but she’d bought some for the look of it. And one had found its way into the Cave Goblin’s possession. She had never let it go.

The chef’s hat rose slowly as Pebblesnatch lifted it up. She inspected it. It was hers. She had given one to Garry after the cooking competition, but he’d given it back. On the basis that he needed a custom hat for his antennae.

You had to have a poofy hat. That was what Erin had told her. Slowly, the Cave Goblin [Cook] put the hat on her head. Her crimson eyes shone as she lifted the frying pan with both hands. Her red eyes shone with the light of a thousand burning [Chefs].

Pebblesnatch was no Redfang. No warrior. No hero or [Shaman]. She wasn’t even that smart, at least, not compared to another small Goblin who had created her own tribe. But she burned. She burned with something greater than her grief. Even after all that had passed, even now, far from home, lost, she had the drive that belonged to her class, her kind of people. The desire that had changed civilization. The true calling of all [Cooks] and [Chefs].

She really, really wanted to eat something that wasn’t complete garbage.



—-

All the Goblins knew that Pebblesnatch was in trouble. The little Cave Goblin was going to get smacked as soon as she reappeared near the camp. And even if many of the Goblins didn’t care too much, most of the Mountain City Goblins would happily grab Pebblesnatch to curry Ulvama’s favor.

Likely, she’d reappear when she got hungry. Or someone would find her. It didn’t matter too much—although Ulvama was furious. But the Goblins were waiting to see that entertaining moment sometime in the future.

None of them expected Pebblesnatch to appear so soon after the incident. In fact, Pebblesnatch had barely taken more than a few minutes. Which actually helped her, because the angry Hobs and Redfangs were still looking in the forest for her.

Now, the Cave Goblin strode back to camp. Some of the Goblins saw her from afar and began to run towards her, to grab her so she could be punished and the tools found.

But they stopped. Pebblesnatch was wearing something. Something that added to her height. A white, well, dirty white hat.

A [Chef]’s hat. The Mountain City Goblins about to grab Pebblesnatch hesitated as she raised the frying pan like the Human she had learned from. There was a glint in Pebblesnatch’s eyes that made the Goblins rethink grabbing her, for all some were much bigger. They stared up at her hat.

Hats were power. Authority. Pebblesnatch was short, but she towered over the other Goblins with her hat. She glared at them and they parted. The little Goblin marched into camp and looked around. The other Goblins stared at her, largely uncomprehending. But some of the Cave Goblins looked up sharply.

“Eggs!”

Pebblesnatch shouted. She marched over to two [Grabbers] she knew. The Cave Goblins who’d learned to raid bird nests. They stared at her. One of them stared up at the hat.

“Eggs!”

Pebblesnatch had decided to bring both ladle and pan after all. She raised the ladle like the wrath of good taste. And the two Cave Goblins backed up. They didn’t have eggs! Pebblesnatch pointed at the forest.

“Get egg!”

One of the Cave Goblins looked like she might protest. It was hard work! And Pebblesnatch clearly wanted the eggs for her. But the other Goblin stared at the hat. And he remembered.

Silently, the Cave Goblin poked his friend. They looked up at the hat. Then they nodded.

Pebblesnatch whirled. She needed food. She was on a time limit! There was no telling how much time she had! Fortunately, she had a cooking fire ready to go. But she needed—

Meat? Pebblesnatch had no idea what she was going to make! But she knew she was going to make something. And her ingredients dictated the meal.

The Cave Goblin stormed over to the small larder of today’s foraging. She saw bugs, squirming in one crude wood bowl. No good. Bugs were tricky! They kept running away from you. She dismissed the bowl at once.

This was a time attack. Like the cooking competition. But Pebblesnatch had learned humility since that day. She was going to do what she knew. And she was a [Cook] of one.

Bowl two held…plants. Edibles. Pinecones—no. But look! Flowers! And other vegetables. Pebblesnatch recognized dandelions, some edible roots. And then she saw it.

A round bulb. No, two. The Cave Goblin sniffed. Garlic. She grabbed it.

Now she was cooking with—well, she wasn’t cooking yet. But she had something. Garlic was a seasoning. And bereft of seasonings—the other crates were sealed—Pebblesnatch took it.

But she needed meat. She craved something hot. You could do good things with eggs, but meat? Pebblesnatch raced over to the Redfang butchering and cooking spots. She could take all she needed since they were gone! And they’d killed a badger just this—

She stopped. The butchering spot was empty. A few bones were all that remained, devoid of marrow. The meat…had been eaten.

All but for a bit of meat. Scraps, really. Some of it looked good, but—scraps. Woebegone, Pebblesnatch stared at them. What could she…?

No. No, this was good. Pebblesnatch grabbed all of the squishy bits of meat. She ran back to the crate. Goblins were staring at her. Some of them eyed Pebblesnatch. Maybe they should stop…?

They stared as she came out with a knife. The Goblins saw Pebblesnatch race back over and put their heads down. Nope. They’d let the Redfangs and Hobs sort it out.

Nearly. Pebblesnatch was panting. She was sure the Redfangs and Ulvama were coming back. She had to run! The Cave Goblins had returned with some eggs. She grabbed at them.

“Good!”

But she needed more! Pebblesnatch whirled, looking for something, anything—



A Cave Goblin was eating something green and grimacing. Pebblesnatch saw the long leaves and white bottom. Wild onions. Pebblesnatch charged before the other Cave Goblin could eat the dirty vegetable. He yanked the food back possessively as she grabbed for it. Pebblesnatch stopped.

She pointed at the hat. The other Goblin stared at it. Slowly, reluctantly, he offered Pebblesnatch half of his green onions. Pebblesnatch grabbed it.

“Redfangs.”

One of the other Goblins called out warningly. Pebblesnatch jerked. She grabbed her ingredients and ran. She didn’t know which Goblin had said it. But they were watching her. Pebblesnatch stopped only once by the fires.

To grab an ember. Her ingredients balanced in the pan, a glowing ember in the ladle, she hurried into the forest. Just in time, too. Ulvama and the Redfangs came back, scowling and very annoyed.

“Where is Pebblesnatch?”

Ulvama glared. The other Goblins looked at each other. A few Mountain City Goblins began to point. And…stopped.

The Cave Goblins were sidling over. Just…walking over. But there were a lot of them. As many as the other tribes combined, in fact. The Mountain City Goblins decided not to speak. And Pebblesnatch began to cook.



—-



Cooking was fascinating. It could be complex as a science, or as simple as applying heat to a substance. But how you applied it, and in what process, and how it changed with the ingredients—

That was what Pebblesnatch liked. Food. Cave Goblins were used to eating raw monsters. Even for Goblins, they ate bad things. But she had tasted good food. And she wanted to taste it again. Because that reminded her of the one good time she had been alive.

Rabbiteater’s Goblins had learned to cook. And Pebblesnatch had learned from her as well. So the Goblin began to cook. And like all things, she started with the basics.

Heat.

She nearly set the forest on fire with her stolen ember the first time. Pebblesnatch frantically stomped on the fire, and realized she needed a cooking area. So she lined the little space with stones and made sure nothing could catch from the fire.

Then she investigated her food. She had meat scraps. She could fry them, but so could any Redfang. She had wild green onions and garlic. And little eggs, from some bird’s nest.

Okay. She could do this. Pebblesnatch took a deep breath and began. She’d been taught by an expert, after all.

Erin Solstice.

A word on Erin Solstice’s cooking. In recent months, her ability to produce cuisine had been frowned upon by everyone from Wall Lord Ilvriss to Grimalkin to Lasica. But it would have been unfair to say that Pebblesnatch had learned from a poor cook.

Erin Solstice was, in fact, very competent due to experience, trial and error, and her Skills. In her world, she would have been far above most people who did not cook for a living, or even a number of amateur chefs. She could make good food in quantities that would appease even the hungriest customers like Relc or the average Goblin, or Antinium.

She was good at cooking. It was just that Erin had met people who had excreted some of the world’s finest cooking. And if that was a vulgar way to put it, well, Goblins knew that everything that went in invariably came out. Except for arrowheads.

But it was also true that Pebblesnatch had learned how to cook from Erin without knowing why. She did not understand the science, the art of cooking, because Erin Solstice herself wasn’t a focused cook. It was like using yeast without understanding how it worked. This was so because it was so. Don’t ask questions.

So Pebblesnatch might have been lost, without any of Erin’s tools or ingredients or…kitchen. That would have been so, but for one fact. In a random encounter, on a night when all had been happy and glorious, Pebblesnatch had met Garry.

And he was a [Chef]. He had experimented, and in the brief night they’d shared, when he had gone to Erin’s kitchen after winning the cooking competition, Pebblesnatch had learned. After all, the Antinium had to prepare strange ingredients with only his creativity. And one of the things he’d taught Pebblesnatch and Erin was how to think about food.

You had only meat scraps, and nothing substantial, nothing you could bite? No problem. Pebblesnatch placed the meat on the pan and began to chop it rapidly with the knife she’d taken. She cut the meat—and then cut it again. She chopped and chopped, mushing the meat together. Creating…well, meat paste. Ground meat, or as close as she could get without a grinder. Then, Pebblesnatch mushed the meat together.

She had a small orb of meat. A meatball, in fact. She didn’t have enough for patties. But mincing meat to give it life when an inferior cut wouldn’t do? That worked. If only she had salt!

Pepper and salt were crucial elements of…anything. At least some spice made food better. Erin had shown Pebblesnatch the things she put into her food. But the Cave Goblin didn’t have that. And the crates were being watched!

Make do. Pebblesnatch knew she’d get some fat from the meat. So she cooked that first. The hot fat it released would help her with the eggs. At the same time, she diced the garlic and onions.

A taste told her the garlic was fairly strong. So she added a bit to the pan, and the onions. The meatball was taking on a rounded shape, and Pebblesnatch pressed an indentation into the meat, making it almost like a bowl.

She had an idea. Next, Pebblesnatch took one of the eggs. They were small, far smaller than the eggs Erin used. But that was fine. Pebblesnatch broke them into the pan.

She watched the eggs sliding around on the pan, sizzling with the green onions and sputtering fat. But it needed—salt! A bit of pepper! She agonized again. No help for it.

Without a spatula, Pebblesnatch had to flip the eggs as the whites grew thick and the yellow yolk stayed on top. She’d been using a stick for the meat, but that wouldn’t do for an egg. So she found a good, thick leaf, wiped it twice, and used it to flip the tiny eggs.

Good! The eggs sputtered as Pebblesnatch watched them brown. She eyed her first little meatball bowl. She tipped the pan—

“You!”

A huge hand grabbed Pebblesnatch. She jumped. It was Raidpear! The Hob had crept up on her. He’d seen the fire. The Hobgoblin scowled down at Pebblesnatch.

“Give!”

He thundered, reaching for the pan. Pebblesnatch clung to it, shouting and kicking as the Hobgoblin lifted up furiously. She was so close! So—

“Huh?”

The angry Redfang Hob had been about to tear the frying pan away from Pebblesnatch. But he stopped as he sniffed the cooked eggs. He lowered the pan and a trio of eggs slid towards him. Raidpear stared at the mini eggs. Poached. They were sizzling in a bit of grease. Then sniffed again.

The little meatball bowl was wrapped in some leaves, cooling. But it smelled like…it was browned, not blackened. The Hob hesitated. He stared down at Pebblesnatch.

“What that?”

He pointed. Pebblesnatch stared up at him. She pointed at the pan.

“Give!”

The Hobgoblin hesitated, then lowered the pan. Pebblesnatch seized her little meatball bowl and tilted the pan. The three eggs slid into it, poached, hot. A pocket of egg and meat.

She eyed it. Slowly, Pebblesnatch took the little meat cup filled with egg and offered it up. Raidpear hesitated. He stared at the pan. At Pebblesnatch.

By all rights, he should have grabbed the pan, hit Pebblesnatch on the head, and sealed the crate again. That was what he should have done. But he was also a Goblin. And Pebblesnatch’s creation looked and smelled…

Slowly, the Hob took what Pebblesnatch was calling her Wildegg Pocket dish and inspected it. He hesitated. And then took a bite.

It was done well. Both sides of the egg were a bit crispy, and Pebblesnatch had left some shell in the mix, but the green onion hadn’t overpowered the egg. And—Raidpear experienced the running egg mixing with the fried meat as he chewed.

His face lit up. The Hobgoblin took another bite, and then finished the morsel. It wasn’t that it was a lot of food, or even that Pebblesnatch had used many ingredients. How could she? But it was the way she did it.

Redfangs by and large didn’t cook. Some of them did, but generally, they’d eat food after roasting it, if they even bothered with that. Sprinkling some seasoning they’d stolen over a meal was their idea of hard work. Raidpear hadn’t been lucky enough to visit The Wandering Inn during that one night. He was contented by hunks of venison with nothing on them.

And in one bite, Pebblesnatch had ruined it for him. Raidpear looked down. Pebblesnatch was frying up more onion and garlic. This time, she was making a mini-omelette with the meat scraps she had left, and the little eggs. She sealed the omelette, flipped it with a leaf.

“Done!”

The little Goblin presented it. The Hobgoblin found himself sitting. He bit the omelette. It was—tender inside. A tiny bit runny.

What he was experiencing was a mastery of heat. Nothing more. Pebblesnatch stood with her arms folded, her hat on her head. She glared up at Raidpear. The Hobgoblin looked around. Pebblesnatch was out of ingredients.

“Make more?”

He sounded hopeful. She glared at him.

“Need thing.”

Raidpear stared at Pebblesnatch.

“What thing?”

“Thing! White, taste thing!”

The two Goblins stared at each other. Pebblesnatch mimed. Raidpear blinked.

“Salt.”

He hesitated. Pebblesnatch folded her arms. This was her completion, her redemption challenge. She’d presented her best, with what little time she had. She pointed at the pan, and her cooking fire.

“Can make more. Better.”

The Hobgoblin hesitated. Every line of his sitting posture indicated indecision. But they’d decided—

A poofy hat towered over him. Raidpear stared up as Pebblesnatch stared down at him with a sneer of contempt on her face. You want to go back to eating your raw, bland food? That was the question the hat and expression asked. Can you even go back? You uncultured fool!

Maybe that wasn’t all of what it said. But the Hobgoblin hesitated. He stared at the pan, the dying fire. Pebblesnatch. His stomach rumbled and his mouth watered. He stared at the hat.



—-



Ten minutes later, Raidpear appeared with Pebblesnatch in the Goblin camp. She marched towards the crates, the Hobgoblin following. Raidpear saw the other Redfangs look up as he stumped over to the crate.

“Raidpear.”

Leafarmor watched him warily. Her arms were folded. She was staring at Pebblesnatch. At Raidpear, uncomprehending. Pebblesnatch was still wearing the hat.

Raidpear shrugged.

“Need salt.”

“Salt?”

The Hobgoblin stared as Raidpear pulled the lid off another crate. Pebblesnatch dove into the box and came out disgusted. The Humans hadn’t included spatulas. Savages.



—-



That night, Redfangs crowded around their cooking fire, watching. Leafarmor was watching with arms folded. Raidpear was hungry. Pebblesnatch had been given access to one crate. She had what lay within.

Flour. Salt. Pepper. Nothing more. But that was enough. Pebblesnatch had a new recipe. Another deer had been killed, and she’d bullied the Redfang in charge of butchering into cutting her thin slabs of meat. She’d also requested—and got—more purloined eggs.

Frying pan, salt, pepper. Meat. Pebblesnatch was sweating, and not just because of the fire. She was being given a chance. But how could you make cooking better? Redfangs could cook; Pebblesnatch remembered the cooking competition. She had to outdo what they’d expect.

This one was for Garry. He’d won his cooking competition by turning rotten caterpillar into a dish that had beaten the other Goblins. And he had a simple method to do it.

Flour. Egg! Dip the tenderized meat into the egg so it was nice and wet. Put it in the flour so it was nice and coated—not too much! And then put it aside to rest! The other Goblins were staring, shaking their heads. Dip meat in raw egg? Why? You ate eggs raw! The other way…you were wasting pure flavor!

They had no idea. None. Pebblesnatch sneered as she tossed fat in her pan for cooking grease. Her flour mix wasn’t pure either. She’d added some of the onion, salt, pepper, and the meat was coated in it. Pebblesnatch shielded her face as the fat in her pan began to pop. Goblins edged backwards as the globules of hot fat shot from the pan. But it was ready.

She tossed the floury meat in the pan and watched it cook fast. The breading began to turn brown as the meat slid across the pan. And the incredulous Goblins…began to come around.

Floury meat sounded bad, even for Goblins. But hold on—this wasn’t flour. This was a crust around the meat. And it had seasoning.

Flavor. The first breaded bite of venison came out. Pebblesnatch offered it to Leafarmor. The Hobgoblin took the piece of meat, ignoring the hot burning from the fat, and sniffed it. She looked at Raidpear. He opened his mouth and pointed.

The female Hob snorted and bit into the meat. She paused. Chewed. Swallowed. She ate the rest of the meat. Chewed. Swallowed. Then she licked her fingers. Some of the crumbs were stuck to it.

The Goblins stared. They had no idea what Pebblesnatch had done. Because…Goblins didn’t know how to bread meat. They knew how to roast it. Grill it. Even fry it—although that was advanced and needless cooking. Who needed a frying pan, really? But that was the extent of their abilities.

Not Pebblesnatch. She was no [Stirrer], or [Roaster], or any low-level class that Goblins received before, rarely, consolidating them into better ones. Pebblesnatch had been taught by someone who actually knew what she was doing. She, small and young though she might be, had the highest level in the highest class.

She was a [Cook].

Ulvama roused from her hut with unfamiliar smells in the air. She stared around the busy cook-fires. She’d had a lot of bone marrow and some bloody meat for lunch. Nothing like what she might have dined on in Tremborag’s mountain. But right now she smelled something…familiar.

Even good. The [Shaman] pushed her way to the front of the crowd surrounding the fire. She stared.

A little Goblin with a hat was braiding meat. She was taking strips of meat, pounding them with a rock on a clean surface (another rock), and then twisting them together. As she did she added a mix of pepper and other dried plants. She was working the seasoning into the braid.

Simple, efficient, different. Pebblesnatch was using her frying pan—although she was working on a simple bread. Goblins were scrambling to raid for enough eggs from the besieged bird nests in the forest.

Ulvama looked as Pebblesnatch turned. The Cave Goblin folded her arms. She pointed, and Ulvama saw one of the finished braids cooling on a rock. The [Shaman] pushed aside another Goblin reaching for it and picked it up. She inspected the meat, and took a bite. Then she looked around.

The other Goblins had broken open the crates. All of them. Most of what they’d found had rotted a bit, but a lot had been stored in airtight containers. Ulvama chewed. She looked at Pebblesnatch. The [Cook] waited, her hat standing proudly. Ulvama shrugged.

“Good.”

Pebblesnatch waited. The [Shaman] took another bite.

“Okay.”

The Cave Goblin’s face fell. Ulvama wandered away. It was better than what any Goblin had eaten here thus far. But she needed a wider menu. A bit of sauce would have made this perfect. But it was a start. After all, Pebblesnatch was young. And it was a long way to the top.



[Cook Level 6!]

[Skill – Ingredients Sense (Minor) obtained!]





Shaman Day



The Goblins loved her cooking. The Redfangs especially. Pebblesnatch was proud of that. The problem was—the Mountain City tribe, led by Ulvama, weren’t as impressed.

Oh, they agreed. You had to break open the crates to let Pebblesnatch cook. No question. And she had to cook. If you remembered what real food tasted like, not blocks of meat or squirming bugs—you had to do it. But…they were ‘civilized’ Goblins, who had [Cooks] of their own. Ulvama hadn’t been impressed at Pebblesnatch’s rough cooking.

Yet. The little Cave Goblin kicked around the next day, searching for good things to eat. She whirled.

Aha! She found an ant hive here, a beetle there—dandelions hidden here—

Her new Skill, [Ingredients Sense] allowed her to instantly know what edible things were around her! And for a Goblin, that meant almost anything but dirt. And some types of dirt.

It had a range of about…five feet. But it picked up everything in the area. Pebblesnatch peered at some dandelions. She inspected a roach and shook her head sadly.

“This?”

A Goblin wandered up to Pebblesnatch, holding a weed. The Goblin eyed the runny flower on top, tasted it, and spat a few times. She shook her head and the Goblin, disappointed, wandered off.

A lot could change in a day. Pebblesnatch, by virtue of her cooking ability and her hat, had achieved a level of respect. As much as the Goblins who were [Hunters], or even the Hobs! Okay, not the Hobs. They were more than happy to let her cook. But the real result of yesterday had been…

The crates. Yes, they’d been broken open for less-than-altruistic reasons. Raidpear had endured a few kicks for listening to his stomach over his objection to Laken Godart. But hunger had opened the door. Or crate. Pebblesnatch had access to all the foodstuffs the Humans had left, which was mainly dried goods like flour, sugar, salt, and so on. But there was dried meat…which was green at this point…and eggs in one crate…which smelled really bad…

But the crates were open. And if you were going to take something from the crates, you might as well take everything. The next day, in between hunting for new ingredients, Pebblesnatch watched as the Redfangs and other Goblins began converting every blade they’d been left. They exchanged handles, tested axes—

“Good. Heavy here. Light here.”

Leafarmor was adjusting a wood chopping axe, a hatchet, so it could be thrown. The Hobgoblin tested, and the axe head blurred forwards and thunked into the dirt past Raidpear. He looked mildly put out by the near miss.

“Miss.”

She kicked dirt at him as the female Hob went to retrieve the axe. Leafarmor was strong. And she was a loyal Redfang, whatever that meant. Pebblesnatch was making a fondue since the Humans left lots of cheese and some of it had begun to grow stuff. Melting cheese was easy, even if you only had a bowl. The tricky thing was not burning it in the cooking fire. She was also learning about the other Goblins.

Leafarmor had once made armor out of leaves. Tough leaves, apparently. The Hob had been separated from her tribe after a bad attack and wounded, so she’d used the only resource on hand to patch her wounds and create a second skin to fight in. She’d killed her way back to the Redfangs after fighting through a dozen Eater Goats and impressed Garen Redfang so much he’d given her the nickname.

She was making another set now. The Humans hadn’t included weapons, but the Redfangs, roused to action, wanted armor. They’d been stripped of their gear, so they were manufacturing more.

All the hides had been sewn together to create a very crude armor for Raidpear. Nothing more than tough clothing, really. But Leafarmor had confiscated a needle and thread and was sewing together…leaves?

They looked stiff. And tough. Leafarmor handed Pebblesnatch one and the Cave Goblin found she could barely bend the leaf. True, the Hob had found the thickest leaves—not from trees, but broad-leafed plants, but the plant matter was unnaturally hard.

“[Tough Leaves]. Good.”

The female Hob grinned. She was making leaf scale mail, delicately sewing together each leaf. Raidpear just grunted as he repurposed a kitchen knife, wedging the blade into a pre-cut slot in a spear.

“Leather better. Steel better.”

Leafarmor tossed the throwing axe again. This time Raidpear blocked with the haft of his spear. Pebblesnatch heard a thunk.

Very put out, Raidpear stared at the quivering axe head buried in the haft of his spear. He snapped the wood and tossed the spear aside. Leafarmor made an apologetic gesture.

Without the quarrel over the box, Raidpear was surprisingly good-natured. And he clearly had a taste for food. He had gotten his nickname because on his first caravan raid, the young Raidpear had searched for the most valuable loot to take and run away with.

Goblins had to move fast because any attack would generate a fast response from [Guards], [Soldiers], or worst of all, adventurers. And of course, Raidpear’s sack of treasures had turned out to be…pears.

It wasn’t a scientific naming system. Pebblesnatch approved of both Goblin names. And in fact, the two Hobs seemed to like hers. The only one with a problem was Ulvama.

The [Shaman] didn’t acknowledge Pebblesnatch’s name. In her hut, she kept poking Pebblesnatch, but she never said Pebblesnatch’s name once.

“You. Make sweet bread for me.”

The [Shaman] was articulate, intelligent—still mean. Pebblesnatch grumbled as she checked her hard flatbread. She didn’t know how to make it go poof, but Ulvama knew what she wanted.

Bread was simple in concept. Flour, salt, a bit of sugar, water…eggs…the only problem was that Pebblesnatch was getting worried the forests were running out of bird nests. But Ulvama just sneered. She went to her hut, and came back with a small pouch. She handed it to Pebblesnatch.

“Eggs.”

The Cave Goblin blinked at the sack of eggs. They were…bigger than the other eggs. Pebblesnatch had been making due with bird eggs, but these were…bigger. A lot bigger. Pale brown, still smelling a tiny bit of bird poo. Pebblesnatch sniffed them suspiciously. Were there big birds around here?

“Make bread.”

Ulvama commanded. She wanted bread, fruits—everything from her home in the mountain. Pebblesnatch grumbled as Ulvama watched her work. Then Ulvama began her own tasks.

The [Shaman] began grinding up bone, the marrowless bone she wanted so much, in a bowl. Pebblesnatch eyed it. Ulvama had some pigment—rust from the blades—she was mixing with the powered bone, creating a dye.

“What for?”

“Paint.”

Ulvama rudely ignored Pebblesnatch’s true question. Of course it was paint! The Redfangs wanted it for their bodies. But why did Ulvama need paint?

She didn’t count fallen comrades like the Redfangs. But her colorful skin paint was clearly part of her class. Or magic. Ulvama was drawing a symbol on a bit of pale bark. She’d found some charcoal for another color—but what was it for?

“I am a [Shaman]. You are a [Cook]. You should be a [Shaman]. We have power.”

Ulvama looked dismissively at Pebblesnatch’s dough when the Cave Goblin was finished with her mix. As if she didn’t like the bread! Pebblesnatch had made a french toast like Erin had shown her and that was why Ulvama wanted more bread. Sugar. The Hobgoblin had a very sweet tooth. But she clearly thought her dyes were better than Pebblesnatch’s dough.

“This is power.”

The [Shaman] pointed at her rune on the bark. Pebblesnatch shrugged. Could you eat it? Ulvama’s eyebrows snapped together. She glared as Pebblesnatch began to knead her dough.

The Hobgoblin snapped her claws and Pebblesnatch’s dough rose out of the mixing bowl. Awed, Pebblesnatch grabbed at it and felt it return to normal in her claws. She stared at Ulvama.

“Power.”

Do it again! Pebblesnatch waved the dough, but Ulvama shook her head.

“Not wasting power on you. Nameless Goblin.”

She had a name! Pebblesnatch kicked at Ulvama and ducked a swat. The [Shaman] glared.

“Only a [Shaman] can give a proper name. I have power. Magic is power. Food is food. I have magic. And this.”

She pointed to her crotch.

“This is power.”

Pebblesnatch tilted her head. She didn’t follow. Ulvama sighed and rolled her eyes. She clicked her fingers and the little fire in her hut burst into flames. Pebblesnatch jumped.

“Make bread! Sweet!”

She was kind to Pebblesnatch, in her way. But she and Pebblesnatch came from vastly different tribes. Pebblesnatch eyed the Hobgoblin. Ulvama was applying the black bone dye around her eyes, accentuating them.

She was doing…something with the other Goblins. Organizing them. Like Erin had, or the Redfang Hobs, like Headscratcher, Shorthilt, and the others, but differently. Pebblesnatch couldn’t put it into words.

Back in the inn, Erin said, ‘do this!’ And people did it or she got angry. She fed them, and they were happy so they helped her because they liked her.

The Redfang Hobs were different. They were leaders. Like Chieftains, but not. But the Cave Goblins had followed them because they had saved Goblins. Because they were strong.

Ulvama was different from both. She said things, and persuaded people to do them. Made it seem like Goblins wanted to do the thing themselves. Sometimes she bullied, but only the smaller Goblins. Never the Redfangs.

Goblins liked her, but not like Erin. Mostly male Goblins. It took Pebblesnatch a few attempts to figure out what Ulvama was doing. She figured it out when Ulvama began checking how her limited wardrobe hung on her.

Oh. She was having sex. Trying to, at any rate.

Sex was something you did before you died. Pebblesnatch wasn’t exactly sure why you did it yet, but some Goblins had assured her there was a point. But all you did was bump a lot and scream, and then a baby might appear later on.

She didn’t see the point. But Ulvama explained to Pebblesnatch as the Goblin squatted over an egg-and-sugar mix, dipping bread into it and then frying it in a pan.

“Power. Power is power.”

The Cave Goblin looked up blankly. No kidding? Ulvama swatted at her, but gently. She was explaining.

“Sex is power. You have it. Later. Become Hob first.”

She poked Pebblesnatch dismissively in the chest. The Cave Goblin swatted at Ulvama’s finger with a scowl. Who cared? She patted one arm. Muscle was power. She wanted to be like Rabbiteater.

Ulvama kicked her.

“Idiot. Not all Goblins can have that power.”

She sighed. The Hobgoblin sat back. She took the french toast and bit into it. Pebblesnatch growled. She was just making Ulvama food! But the [Shaman] was talking.

“This is how works. One Goblin is strongest. That Goblin becomes Chieftain. Chieftain takes what Chieftain wants.”

She grabbed another piece of the sweet bread. Pebblesnatch’s eyes widened in outrage! It was to share! And she wanted a bite!

The Cave Goblin punched Ulvama. The Hobgoblin smacked her on the head. Pebblesnatch shouted in pain, but Ulvama raised her hand and Pebblesnatch slunk back to her bowl. Pebblesnatch’s head hurt, and Ulvama saw her rubbing the spot. The [Shaman] reached over and tapped Pebblesnatch on the head.

“[Silenced Agony].”

The pain went away. Pebblesnatch stared at Ulvama in awe. The [Shaman] grimaced.

“Don’t burn food! More sugar!”

She pointed and continued speaking.

“Strong takes. When Goblin—or Human—or anyone is strongest, they take. Only give if they have more than they want. Like this.”

She pointed to the opening of her hut. Pebblesnatch peered outside as she held the frying pan, letting it cool a bit so she didn’t burn her french toast. Ulvama had taken the eggs from a Goblin who somehow had many, many of the fat, big eggs. It was a female Goblin, one of the Mountain City Goblins. Where had she found a nest that big?

But that wasn’t what Ulvama was showing Pebblesnatch. She was showing the little Cave Goblin how the Goblin who had so many eggs acted. When the Cave Goblin had lots of the fat, brown eggs, she gave them out. To Ulvama, to other Goblins for favors like braiding her hair, or other snacks.

But she only had a finite supply of eggs. Which was a fair three dozen, but between Pebblesnatch and her gifts, she was quickly down to her last dozen.

When the egg-Goblin was flush with eggs, she was generous. But when she realized she only had a few left, she was miserly. Other hungry Goblins came over and the Cave Goblin with the eggs snapped at them, hoarding her prizes. She ate two, gulping down the raw yolks greedily, and tried to trade the rest for large chunks of meat. She refused to be generous.

“See? Have lot, give lot. But must have.”

Ulvama spoke and Pebblesnatch nodded. Like Raskghar. When there was lots of food, they didn’t care if Cave Goblins filled their bellies. But when there was no food—Cave Goblins ate nothing. Raskghar ate Cave Goblins.

In the end, one of the Redfangs lost patience with the hoarded eggs. They were better for cooking than eating raw. The Goblin [Warrior] walked over, demanded the eggs, and offered a single slab of cooked meat in return. The egg-hoarding Goblin refused.

There was a quick skirmish. The Redfang took the eggs, and set them aside for Pebblesnatch to make her food with. The eggless Cave Goblin sniveled as she took the meat, running away with it to devour it bite by bite.

“Power is power.”

Pebblesnatch just shrugged. Ulvama was showing her nothing new. The [Shaman] sighed. She tapped Pebblesnatch on the head with one finger. Then she pointed at herself again.

“Can never have power like that. Too hard. Too much work. Too little talent.”

She pointed at the Redfang who’d effortlessly defeated the other Goblin. He wasn’t a Hob, but he was quicker and stronger than almost any other Goblin. Perhaps even Ulvama. Certainty, if they’d fought with weapons, Pebblesnatch wasn’t sure if Ulvama would win. The [Shaman] indicated Raidpear and Leafarmor and Pebblesnatch nodded.

“Cannot be strong this way. But have this—this. Others want. Power.”

She touched her staff, then cupped a breast. Pebblesnatch began to get it. Ulvama gave her a smile. It wasn’t a happy one. It was…bleak. Pebblesnatch faltered.

Power was power.

“Strong Goblin is strong. But I can be second-strongest.”

She was looking at Raidpear. The Hob had thus far spoken with Ulvama and not done much else. But like other Goblins, he looked at Ulvama when she wasn’t watching. Pebblesnatch stared at Ulvama. She asked.

“He?”

The [Shaman] shrugged.

“Or female. Male is easier. But take power. Any way. Food is power.”

She pointed at Pebblesnatch’s french toast. Then snagged a third piece. The Cave Goblin [Cook] looked down and nodded slowly.

“Weaker power. But power. Not bad.”

Ulvama chewed her mouthful down. She was so judgy! If she’d been at Erin’s inn—Pebblesnatch would have had more ingredients! Like honey! Then she’d make Ulvama say it was good!

The Cave Goblin squatted protectively over the rest of her french toast, but the [Shaman] was full. She leaned on her staff as she added more shadow around her eyes. She looked only one more time at Pebblesnatch. And that was to shake her head as she pointed around the Goblin’s camp.

“Tremborag was Great Chieftain. Bigger than little Goblin Rags. Older than Garen Redfang. He died. Humans always kill us. Always.”

She looked at the little Cave Goblin and patted Pebblesnatch’s head.

“Eat now. Be happy. Then die.”

She took another bite of the french toast she’d stolen. Pebblesnatch scowled. But Ulvama looked sad, so Pebblesnatch made more french toast quietly. It wasn’t as good as the inn.

But it was tasty.



[Cook Level 7!]





Wrapleaf Day



Pebblesnatch was basic. She had to acknowledge that fact. If Ulvama poo-pooing her food—despite demanding custom-meals like the french toast—wasn’t sign enough, the Cave Goblin knew it from her level.

Yes, she could fry food and do a few things better than any Goblin, but she was hardly a [Chef]. She wore the hat, but Pebblesnatch remembered the cooking competition. She had come in dead last. She had faced the best cooks of each tribe and they had known how to cook. In her arrogance, Pebblesnatch had made the worst dish, assuming the hat and simply living in Erin’s inn and eating good food was enough.

Now, all those great Goblin cooks were dead. Garry might live, but he was far away. So in their absence, Pebblesnatch did what she’d been too arrogant to do in Erin’s inn: she learned.

She was hampered by her ingredients, first-off. Pebblesnatch had taken for granted Erin’s kitchen and the convenience of ingredients from a city. But Goblins? Goblins had to live on food in their area. And what they had…wasn’t enough.

Take meat, for instance. Pebblesnatch knew tricks. She could grind the meat, braid it, coat it, and even prepare it different ways. Water, oil, fire—

But she couldn’t do much more to it for lack of…things. Like lemons! Where was her sour? But there was no lemon or vinegar in the supplies the Humans had left. Maybe they’d thought Goblins didn’t need vinegar.

Oafs. Pebblesnatch also lacked for other tastes on the ladder of good additions. In fact—she could only do so much with meat. So she kept asking for more ingredients and searching.

The first thing she found were beetles. There were orange beetles around the base of the mountain that some of the Goblins liked to explore. The Goblin who liked stones and who had found all the rocks was of the opinion that there was good stone here. Possibly something underground. The Humans had left picks and shovels, so he spent his day digging a hole into the mountain.

The other Goblins thought he was crazy. Even the Redfangs, who would have liked iron or metal to make more weapons with. But how was someone going to build a forge?

Ulvama took an interest on the same day as Pebblesnatch demanded she help find more ingredients. The [Shaman] eyed the lone Goblin from the Goldstone Tribe digging up rocks happily and frowned. She ignored Pebblesnatch as the Cave Goblin excitedly dug up a nest of the crawling, orange beetles.

“I will sleep. Don’t disturb.”

The [Shaman] ignored Pebblesnatch tugging excitedly at her arm. She went back to her hut and promptly lay down. Pebblesnatch, annoyed, turned back to the beetles.

Her [Ingredients Sense] told her they were good ingredients. Cautiously, Pebblesnatch tried one, popping it into her mouth. Instantly, she spat it out.

Spicy! The beetle’s shell was spicy! The rest of it was ick, too mushy for anything. But Pebblesnatch quickly ordered some of the Cave Goblins to find the orange-shelled beetle that liked to hide in similarly-colored dirt. The spice was immediate, fiery, and didn’t go away. But it made you want to live.

Aglow with it, Pebblesnatch ran over to Ulvama’s hut. But the [Shaman] was deep asleep. Even when Pebblesnatch opened one eyelid, she only saw the whites of Ulvama’s eyes.

A bit…disconcerted, Pebblesnatch left the hut. Even the deepest Goblin sleepers woke up at someone shaking them. Maybe the Mountain City Goblins were that secure and lazy, but Pebblesnatch felt uneasy.

Nevertheless, she was too busy, so she found Leafarmor instead. The Hobgoblin readily agreed to help Pebblesnatch. And she knew exactly what the little Cave Goblin needed. She took Pebblesnatch up, along the base of the mountain to some very odd, flat, long leaves on the ground. They radiated out from a central blossom.

“See? Wrapleaf. Don’t touch.”

The Hobgoblin cautioned Pebblesnatch. The large bloom was inconspicuous amid some other plant life. Pebblesnatch didn’t see what was so special about it—until Leafarmor cut a strand loose. She handled the long, wide leaf from the bottom, and offered the upraised surface to Pebblesnatch.

“Try. Touch top.”

Pebblesnatch eyed the leaf. It had little brown spots buried along the exposed outside. Seeds? She cautiously touched one—

And the wrapleaf curled around Pebblesnatch’s hand. It grabbed her hard, instantly tensing. Pebblesnatch shouted in agony.

Grinning, Leafarmor grabbed the wrapleaf and pried both ends off Pebblesnatch. It only wrapped hard for a second—then it let go. But Pebblesnatch’s hand still hurt! She stared at her hand and exclaimed.

Tiny little burrs were stuck onto her skin. Seeds! Pebblesnatch furiously dug them out of her bleeding skin. Leafarmor helped her get them out.

She might have warned Pebblesnatch, but there was no better teacher than experience as Goblins looked at it. And Pebblesnatch, staring at the wrapleaf, realized that stepping on a bigger leaf would have those little burrs embedded all over your leg.

“Wrapleaf. Strong, right? Lets go quick. Even little things live. But—seeds. How it spreads.”

Leafarmor showed Pebblesnatch the wrapleaf that had got her. The stupid plant was denuded of seeds, having done its work. Pebblesnatch slapped the leaf angrily—then sniffed it and took a bite.

Hm! Not great. Rubbery, a bit bitter—but she could work with this! And the wrapleaf was plentiful here. It was the first big plant Pebblesnatch had discovered. She towed it back to the camp and got to work.



—-



By the time Ulvama emerged from her hut, she found Pebblesnatch working on her next creation. Wrapleaf clinging tightly around a little mix of vegetables.

Pebblesnatch had a simple process. She took carrots, some green onion, a bit of leftover meat minced—a few nuts—all made into a paste. Then Pebblesnatch weighed down a section of wrapleaf and pasted the interior with her spread. Then she took off one of the rocks holding the plant down.

Instantly, the wrapleaf curled up. In doing so, it turned itself into a roll, the paste nicely swirled around the inside. There were no little burrs; Pebblesnatch had already picked them off. The Cave Goblin smacked the rolled up leaf with a sharp, wood pick, right through the center. Now it couldn’t uncurl.

The fourth roll done, Pebblesnatch offered one of them on a pick to Ulvama. The [Shaman] was yawning, looking—tired. But Pebblesnatch forced one of the rolls into her clawed hand and then offered a bowl of liquid.

The Goblins stared at the wrapleaf roll, then the bowl Pebblesnatch had filled. It contained a mix of the spicy beetle shells, a bit of water, some animal fat, and garlic and seasonings. Ulvama, intrigued, dipped the roll in the sauce, and bit into the roll. She chewed—and then smiled.

“Crunchy.”

The other Goblins exhaled. That was—Ulvama’s posture indicated it could be better, but it was a good snack, had a nice crunch—and Pebblesnatch had brought spice into the Goblin’s cuisine! Seven out of ten! Six, if you were Ulvama.

Success! The others crowded around for a taste. Pebblesnatch proudly showed them how easy it was. The stupid wrapleaf wrapped itself! The trick was getting the little seeds out, but it was a very edible plant! And the spicy bug shell was great! It added that fire that made bland food bearable.

The [Cook] was so caught up on her success that she barely noticed Ulvama conferring with Raidpear. The [Shaman] was gesturing towards the place where the Goldstone Tribe Goblin had been mining. She leaned on Raidpear as they walked over, talking closely. Pebblesnatch, intrigued, followed them.

“Smelter?”

“Iron.”

Ulvama corrected Raidpear as Leafarmor, Pebblesnatch, and some of the others came over, munching on wrapleaf rolls. Ulvama was pointing at the little tunnel the Goldstone tribe Goblin had built. She was explaining…how to refine the iron?

All of the Goblins stared. But the [Shaman] was insistent.

“It can be done. With charcoal. I will show you how to build. There is iron. Can make iron or steel.”

“How?”

The Redfangs were very excited by the prospect. Their tribe didn’t have any Goblin who knew how to make steel, and they couldn’t make their own weapons—even iron in the High Passes. Even among the Mountain City Goblins, Goblin [Smiths] were a rarity.

But Ulvama knew. Somehow. She had become an expert in the basic principles of making a crucible overnight, and she was convinced this place had good ore, waiting to be dug up.

But how? The answer came as the [Shaman] tapped her head.

“Memory.”

Oh. All the Goblins nodded. Then frowned. Ulvama wasn’t a [Chieftain]! How could she remember something Goblins in the past had done? Let alone such a convenient memory?

The [Shaman] sighed. She tapped one breast as she looked at Raidpear. And she smiled.

“[Shamans] remember too.”



[Cook Level 8!]



Day of Stinky Sauce



Ulvama’s slow seduction of the Redfang Hob was boring to Pebblesnatch. She knew Ulvama wanted to do it for some reason, but she didn’t care. Ulvama believed power was power, and part of power lay between Goblin’s legs. Human legs too, probably. That was all very well and good, but Pebblesnatch aimed a little higher up.

At the stomach. And hers growled for something to add to the meat! You couldn’t just spice it with…spices! At some point you needed a glaze. Marinades!

But for the moment, she did a soup. Pebblesnatch found herself fighting with Ulvama for control of all the bones produced by the Redfangs hunting. At first it was a hard battle, and not just with Ulvama. The Goblins did not enjoy giving up the meaty bones and delicious and filling marrow, as well as a good amount of meat scraps, but they changed their mind when Pebblesnatch made up a stock.

The process was simple, and Pebblesnatch educated a few interested Goblins. They were [Stirrers], or aspiring [Cooks] like her. The key to making a broth was time.

Roast the meat, bones, and vegetables over the fire, taking care not to burn yourself and kick any Goblin trying to sneak your ingredients. Toss them in one of the big boiling pots, and add water. At this point Pebblesnatch tossed in wild celery, a few peppercorns, and other edible leaves and vegetables, including the helpful and prolific garlic the Goblins kept finding.

When the water was near boiling, she took the cook fire down, so it was simmering. Then came the hard part. Waiting for hours while the stock mixed all those flavors. Occasionally Pebblesnatch took off the lid and scooped off the icky bits on top, but the real problem was smacking all the Goblins wandering over for a taste with her ladle.

After that, Pebblesnatch cleared the pot of bones and vegetables. Ulvama took the bones, annoyed at how wet they were, and Pebblesnatch ate the vegetables. Her broth was done! It had a few bits floating in it, but it was the thing of wonders. Another [Chef] might have chilled it and kept it for later while removing the fat—no Goblin [Cook] in the world would do the same.

Then, Pebblesnatch turned it into a soup. It wasn’t hard. She just made a normal soup. But instead of water, she used her pre-made broth. And it made a world of difference.

The Goblins were awestruck, even the Redfangs. Because when they made soup, they added food to water. They had no concept of broths, or simmering to allow flavors to emerge. Scooping scum off the surface of a pot was good cookery to most Goblins!

Pebblesnatch kept a portion of her broth. She turned what she’d saved into a thick gravy by adding some flour, more seasonings, and so on to make it thicker. That went well over the venison. It wasn’t perfect, but…it was better than nothing!

It went over a hit. Some of the Redfangs grilling meat were very pleased to slather their slices in the gravy and chow down. Pebblesnatch was nodding authoritatively. See? This is why you needed a sauce. Even simple dishes needed that!

The other Goblins were milling about, stuffing their faces on her creation when Pebblesnatch felt a tug on one arm. She looked around and saw another Goblin grinning. He had gravy around his lips and was licking them. He nodded approvingly.

“Good. Come.”

He had something to show Pebblesnatch. She wandered off after him. Then she noticed Ulvama was giving Raidpear a massage. Pebblesnatch sighed. She wanted a massage. Ulvama had shown her how to do it, as well as how to mix up bone dyes—although that was only so Pebblesnatch could help her.

“I. Holdnose.”

The other Goblin poked Pebblesnatch. She blinked at him. He had a nickname!

The Goblin was fairly old, as Goblins went. Seven years, almost. He was a Flooded Water tribe Goblin. An original Goblin, from Liscor.

He had known his Chieftain, Rags, when she was born. And he’d followed her north, and then returned to Liscor only to be captured at the end of the terrible battle. And he had a class Pebblesnatch had never encountered before.

[Rotter].

It was the kind of class that provoked questions the instant you heard about. Mostly…why? Holdnose kept beckoning Pebblesnatch over to a stone cave. It was near the river, but no Goblins were wandering the area. Even to get fish.

Pebblesnatch realized why, instantly. The cave stank. Not even in a ‘I can tolerate this for a while’ stink, but the kind of stink that you either grew numb to, or threw up in.

Holdnose had made a camp here. And he had pots! Pans, taken from the crates, and crude stone vessels, some chipped out of the cave floor! All of them were filled with…sauce.

Fish sauce. Pebblesnatch stared, but Holdnose was adamant. He could make fish sauce?

How?

The [Rotter] was in fact, a fermentation expert, a concept which Goblins understood, without the scientific terms. Holdnose had learned how to turn perfectly good food into a rotten—fermented, rather—substance. All you needed was a fresh fish.

He had one in a crude net now. He pulled it out, killed the fish with a quick smack, and got to work as Pebblesnatch watched.

Chop up the fish fresh, bones and all, and then pound and mix them up. Blood, guts, innards—all in a bowl. Then, add some water and good spices. A good bit of salt! And then?

He dumped it in a pot and closed the lid. Then, Holdnose put some rocks on top just to make sure. Pebblesnatch saw the Goblin turn around and grin.

“Long?”

“Many days. This many.”

He waved his clawed hands. Pebblesnatch stared.

You left it there for a month. Possibly two. You sealed the container, made sure nothing ate it, like little bugs. And when it came out, you had a tasty…sauce.

She folded her arms.

“No. Bad lies.”

Holdnose insisted. It was tasty! And a sauce, like she had made, but tastier! Pebblesnatch scoffed.

He showed her. The Goblin had begun his work the instant he’d gotten here. And it took him only one week for whatever he wanted to turn into a sauce, thanks to his Skills. He had a little hollowed-out stone pot with a terribly smelling fish sauce.

Pebblesnatch recoiled at the smell of the viscous liquid. It looked foul! And in the cave full of successful rots and unsuccessful rots, even her stomach was roiling. But one taste—

Flavor! Pebblesnatch’s eyes widened. She seized Holdnose and he grinned as she danced around! Flavor! This was a proper sauce! The kind you could marinade with! Infuse flavor into her dishes!

When Pebblesnatch stopped dancing, she pointed at the jar of sauce.

“Give?”

Holdnose tilted his head thoughtfully. He wanted something in return. Pebblesnatch hurried back to her camp and came back with a bundle of her prepared foods.

She traded him sixteen wrapleaf rolls for the precious jar of fish sauce. Holdnose was already chuckling to himself as Pebblesnatch carried off her new flavoring; he was dipping the wraps in another sauce and munching them down. He promised Pebblesnatch more; he was experimenting with everything.

There were a lot of new vegetables entering the camp. Not just salvaged wild plants like the green onions, but carrots, cucumbers, a cabbage—they were big, luscious, and Pebblesnatch had no idea where they were coming from. Even Holdnose had a few. She stared as he pointed to another pot he was planning to try and rot some cucumbers in. At this point it occurred to Pebblesnatch to ask.

“Why?”

Why? The other Goblin gave Pebblesnatch a blank look. Why did he rot things? Why was this a class? He shrugged as he dipped another roll in his fishy sauce.

“Tastes good.”

That was really all there was to it. Holdnose enjoyed the process and what he made. Plus, you could bottle up the fermented sauce and it stayed good for months. Even as long as a year or more with Skills! It had saved his tribe in the old days more than once, during cold, long winters.

Pebblesnatch looked at Holdnose, deeply impressed. Even Erin didn’t know how to ferment. But this Goblin, a survivor from the battles, was happily fermenting garlic, fish, pickles, anything he could find.

It was also probably a survival mechanism—the food stank. Apparently, Holdnose could even chase away Rock Crabs if he made enough of a smell.

Pebblesnatch went back to camp with her fish sauce, which was a hit—she was already trying to figure out what to do with the potatoes a Goblin delivered her. Oh! The egg-Goblin! Somehow she’d found a…sack…of big potatoes.

“Found?”

Pebblesnatch stared at the other Goblin. The Goblin avoided her gaze and nodded. She hurriedly pressed the sack into Pebblesnatch’s hands and hurried off. Leafarmor came over, frowning.

“What?”

The [Cook] showed her. Leafarmor frowned.

“Found?”

Apparently. Pebblesnatch shrugged. The Hob paused, but then she shrugged too.

“Strange plants.”

She wandered off. Pebblesnatch agreed. For a Cave Goblin and a Redfang used to rocky, inhospitable terrain like the High Passes and the dungeon, the idea that you could stick food in the ground and get more food was stupid. And these were a lot of potatoes! Pebblesnatch could make fried fries, but…how basic.

She was imagining potato boats, hollowed out and refilled with good stuff, potato pancakes, mashed potatoes…

She headed into the hut where Ulvama let her sleep. Then Pebblesnatch wandered out. Leafarmor pricked up her ears as Pebblesnatch wandered over to her hut. The other Cave Goblins looked around. Ulvama’s hut was noisy.

Sex. Pebblesnatch sighed, and began peeling a potato. It really was strange. They were such big potatoes too. She wondered what level of [Gatherer] you had to be to find such nice plants.



[Cook Level 10!]

[Conditions Met: Cook → Forager Cook Class!]

[Class Consolidation: Grabber removed.]

[Skill – Natural Oils obtained!]

[Skill – One More Portion obtained!]





Bad Day, Witch Day.



Pebblesnatch had changed her classes. It put a smile on her face, even larger than on Raidpear’s. Leafarmor rolled her eyes and poked him, but Ulvama seemed satisfied too. With Pebblesnatch as much as herself.

[Forager Cook]. It wasn’t the best class consolidation, and it was still below [Chef]. But Pebblesnatch had gotten it at Level 10. And—it had its benefits.

The first was her [Natural Oils] Skill. It sounded like nothing, but Pebblesnatch found she could distill a crazy amount of cooking oil from the animals the Redfangs brought in. Enough so that she could cook with it without waiting for the next kill. But if that Skill was ‘good’, her second Skill was amazing.

[One More Portion]. It meant that whenever she made anything—anything, there was always a bit more than what she’d thought. Like her wrapleaf roll paste. If Pebblesnatch made a huge bowl, she’d have a hand-sized portion when she was done, even if she should have just had the bowl’s worth.

It was the best Skill for Goblins. Not powerful, but even Ulvama was praising Pebblesnatch for it. She showed the little Goblin how to braid her hair as she explained.

“When higher level, bigger portions. Lots of food. Starving tribes don’t starve if you make all the food.”

Pebblesnatch wriggled as the [Shaman] braided her hair. Ulvama tapped her hard on the head and Pebblesnatch stopped. Ulvama had gotten her wish too.

Raidpear wasn’t in charge, but between him and Leafarmor, he had a loud command of the camp. And with Ulvama, she’d gotten more Goblins to follow the Goldstone Goblin in mining ore. Ulvama wanted to make iron. She also wanted tools for her hut. Ingredients for paint, and so on. And all the Goblins were obliging her wishes.

“Tribe should be strong. Tribe needs a [Chieftain].”

“Raidpear?”

Pebblesnatch scoffed. The Goblins here didn’t need a [Chieftain]! They were still prisoners! Even if they had been here in peace, they couldn’t leave. And…they’d had Chieftains.

Amazing ones. How could Raidpear compete, even if he tried? He didn’t want to. Ulvama pulled Pebblesnatch’s hair, scowling.

“We need a [Chieftain]. Stop moving.”

Pebblesnatch didn’t argue. Ulvama did what Ulvama wanted. So did Pebblesnatch.

Her cooking ability in the Goblin camp had grown by leaps and bounds. Now, any meal had to have a sauce, or some glazing, or at least some decent spicing on the roasting meat, without burning the food. Even the other Goblins were inspired by her cooking. Pebblesnatch was no [Chieftain], but she had an influence on the camp.

And she was happy with that. So happy, just to eat and find new foods. It made her stop thinking about the inn, and Pebblesnatch visited the bark door with the glowing red mana stone in it less and less. It wasn’t perfect, living like this. But it was okay.



—-



It continued, those pleasant days, for almost four days in a row. Four days of happiness. Pebblesnatch slept in the Redfang huts since she was clearly unwelcome in Ulvama’s hut. Leafarmor seemed content with the obvious relationship between the [Shaman] and Raidpear.

“Makes happy. Also, not want. Ulvama tried me too.”

She winked at Pebblesnatch as she sewed a second set of leaf armor up. Pebblesnatch blinked at her. Leafarmor seemed to know what Ulvama was doing and didn’t care. Because all was well.

Until the day a Goblin came staggering into their little village, screaming in pain. Pebblesnatch tumbled out of her hut in alarm, and Leafarmor was out of her cot in a second, throwing axe in hand. The other Goblins were on their feet too. They stared as the Goblin fell to her knees.

It was the Goblin who’d found the brown eggs. She had more now, in a little satchel. And something else.

A feathered arrow, protruding from one shoulder.

She had come from the direction of Riverfarm. Pebblesnatch was uncomprehending as Ulvama raced from her hut. She didn’t understand. The Goblin had gone towards Riverfarm? Why?

It was funny. At least, ironic. Cave Goblins didn’t steal. They didn’t even think of it, because all they’d known were their Raskghar masters. They’d been part of a tribe where they sometimes took food in secret, to live, or snatched things, but they had no concept of stealing from anyone else. After all, the dungeon had only walking suits of armor, monsters, traps. There was no one to steal from.

It had never occurred to Pebblesnatch how the egg-Goblin had gotten her eggs. Or the potatoes. The carrots. The cucumbers or anything else. She’d assumed someone had found the vegetables. But now, Pebblesnatch saw Ulvama peering at the arrow. The [Shaman] looked around, and then the way the Goblin had come.

She’d left a trail. She had come past the line the [Emperor] had drawn in the ground. There was shouting from that way, distant, but growing in volume.

A funny thing. Perhaps the [Emperor] watched closely, even now. The Goblins had stopped trying to escape their territory—they mainly did it once every few days at most, just to see if the Humans had given up. But they were always caught.

Because the [Emperor] could sense a lone Goblin, or a small group making tracks away from his territory. But what about closer to his village? Where there were so many other Humans, milling about? If a lone Goblin crept around when he was slumbering…

Pebblesnatch looked at the wounded [Thief] Goblin whom Ulvama was tending to and knew. The shouting was growing louder, from far off. The Redfangs stirred. They gripped their weapons and the other Goblins looked up. A familiar feeling of dread engulfed Pebblesnatch.

The quiet days were over. Raidpear slowly emerged from Ulvama’s hut with a spear. He looked at Leafarmor and she sighed.

“Death time.”



—-



“Your majesty, Riverfarm’s folk won’t tolerate any more of it! I’ve talked them down, but something must be done. Please, sire!”

Laken Godart sat on his wooden throne. He waited until Mister Prost was done. The [Steward] was unusually agitated, to raise his voice against Laken. But then, this concerned his greatest objection.

“The Goblins. Tell me no one crossed their border?”

“No, your Majesty. But we’re watching it! Beniar’s got a few [Riders] stationed there, but a few [Archers] have bows since—”

He faltered. Laken sighed.

“Since I won’t post an armed guard. Your objection, Mister Prost, is noted. And have the Goblins responded?”

“They’ve got weapons, sire. The ones with red stripes are in front. The rest of ‘em are loitering about.”

“That’s a relief.”

Laken sighed. Mister Prost stared at him.

“Your Majesty—”

“It’s regrettable. Certainly, Mister Prost. But I don’t understand why this is the straw that has broken Riverfarm’s back.”

Laken looked up, and around his throne room. Well, that’s what he called it.

The room was silent for a moment. Durene, Wiskeria, Lady Rie, were all silent. And so were the two [Witches] with the pointed hats. Gamel, standing by the doors, wasn’t going to say anything. Laken turned his head.

“One thief.”

“As far as we know, your Majesty. But it explains all the thefts we’ve been having!”

“All of them? Mister Prost, you were convinced we had at least a dozen petty thieves in Riverfarm. And I’ve already found eighteen.”

The [Steward] faltered.

“Well—certainly it explains who’s been raiding the chickens and our fields! We posted a watch, but we barely noticed the damn Goblin. Good thing Longwain spotted it—”

“And promptly put an arrow in its shoulder. Couldn’t he have called an alarm?”

“But sire—”

“Should the [Farmers] have entertained [Thieves], your Majesty? Goblin or not, that is how they deal with those who steal what they’ve worked hard to grow.”

Lady Rie’s voice was smooth. The [Lady] shifted as Laken turned his head, his eyes still closed towards her.

“I suppose not, Lady Rie. But I’m just a bit dismayed at the reaction of Riverfarm’s folk. I believed the village had just gotten used to the idea of Goblins…existing. Without having harmed anyone, for over two weeks. There’s been no violence.”

“But we’ve been raided all that time, your Majesty.”

“Raided. By a single Goblin?”

“There may be more.”

“True. But—raided? I’ve seen a Goblin raid, Prost.”

The [Steward] paused. The former [Farmer] tightened his hands.

“Yes, your Majesty. You saved us. And we were there. I was there.”

Laken dipped his head slightly.

“It was not a raid, Mister Prost. It’s Goblin [Thieves]. As bad as Human [Thieves], I will grant you. But I won’t march into the Goblin territory to grab one Goblin [Thief]. What would I do?”

“Punish her. Laken, a [Thief]’s a [Thief].”

Durene was scowling. Laken looked at her.

“And this one has an arrow in her side. Moreover, the Goblins have their own territory.”

“Which you gave them.”

Lady Rie, Prost, and Durene. None of them were in their usual accord with Laken. The [Emperor] nodded.

“We’ve argued this over. Mister Prost, if a Human stole from the Goblins—”

“Sire.”

“—And the Goblins marched into Riverfarm and demanded the Human for their justice, would you accept?”

“Sire. Are you planning on doing nothing?”

The [Emperor] shook his head.

“I won’t evict the Goblins. Because, as Lady Rie is all too quick to point out, or Beniar, or anyone else, doing so would just create another Goblin tribe. If I want to clean up my mistake—”

He paused, and his tone indicated he didn’t share the other’s belief.

“—I should kill every last Goblin. Just order the army to surround and execute them. Finish the job that should have taken place at Liscor. Am I hearing you all correctly?”

He scowled at his advisors. Rie exchanged a look with Durene, for once in solid agreement. There was a sound from behind Prost.

“Your Majesty, you’ve explained why you think Goblins should be allowed their space. But Mister Prost is correct when he says they’ve committed a crime.”

Wiskeria spoke slowly. She wasn’t as furious as the others, but she did look at the [Emperor]. Laken sighed.

“True enough. And no, I won’t ignore this. But neither will I do something that will clearly lead to conflict. I’ve been trying to prove a point! One Goblin [Thief] is not all Goblins! And if they are warlike monsters with no capacity for reason, why have we not already had to slaughter them?”

He struck his armrest of the throne. The room fell silent. Laken looked around.

“I’m tired to death of arguing over their inherent evil. Yes, one Goblin stole crops. No, I will not order them all slain. Have you looked at them?”

“Have you?”

Durene’s mutter made the room go silent. Laken paused.

“I’m glad not to be able to see them, Durene. If they look like monsters, I’d probably be more inclined to treat them like monsters. But monsters do not weep. Monsters do not grieve. And I have heard both. I would rather give up ten thousand eggs than add to my sins.”

More silence. Laken sighed. He turned his head, looking past his immediate advisors.

“You’ve been very quiet, Witch Hedag, Witch Eloise. What do the [Witches] counsel?”

The two [Witches] looked up. Eloise was sipping a cup of tea. Hedag was making a charm, her thick fingers skillfully sewing something up. Hedag, the giant, looked at Eloise, and the old [Witch] answered with a polite smile and nod. Laken couldn’t see it, but politeness was Eloise.

“They have no reason to love you, your Majesty. Or any Humans. These Goblins have seen war. And your people have every right to fear what they’d do.”

Laken grimaced.

“True. I was hoping you’d take my side, Witch Eloise. Yes, they have every right to a grudge. But surely there is hope? Or must we slaughter them all? What of you, Witch Hedag?”

The big woman issued a booming laugh. Her axe was propped up in the chair she sat in—the two [Witches] had chairs, even if no one else did. They wouldn’t stand on an [Emperor]’s will. Hedag tipped her hat, grinning.

“If a Goblin were the same as other folk, [Witches] at least would remember, young man. But we remember them in good times and ill! Your villagers sees only what they want, but they’re right that a Goblin King never embraced any other species. They’ve brought only death and the kind of death that would curl any toes!”

Her voice echoed in the room like a cheerful headswoman. Which is what she was. Hedag paused.

“True, Goblins have worked with good folk before. [Witches] remember. We’ve even welcomed them into our covens.”

“Hedag.”

Eloise nudged Hedag. The [Witch] laughed. Everyone was staring.

“Whoops! Was it a secret? Goblins can be many things. They level, so surely they have minds. But almost always, [Witches] remember they’ve come into conflict with the good folk. Because the good folk always turn to Goblins whenever the first chicken get stolen. Even if it was their neighbor! Easy to blame monsters, eh?”

She grinned around. Prost and Durene glared, and Rie pursed her lips. Wiskeria just shook her head despairingly. Laken sighed.

“So your counsel is also that there’s nothing to be done, Hedag? Eloise?”

He turned his head towards them, almost annoyed by their responses. But both [Witches] smiled. Hedag laughed as she tipped her hat back.

“I never said that. We offer perspective, little [Emperor]! But I’d not waste words on a fellow whose mind is already made up!”

Laken smiled, unexpectedly. He chuckled.

“True. You see right through me.”

“Your Majesty! You can’t be thinking of doing nothing—”

Dismayed, the council turned back to Laken. The [Emperor] waved his hand.

“No, Mister Prost. Not ‘nothing’. It’s clear that Riverfarm’s good citizens would take matters into their own hands if nothing happened. I suppose it’s time to allow some leeway when it comes to the Goblins.”

The [Witches] sitting across the back wall looked up. Durene stirred, and Wiskeria looked at Laken sharply. He sighed.

“Riverfarm will simply have to take its own precautions. As such, here are my orders as to what will happen and what may happen. Listen closely…”

The council listened. They liked it, and didn’t like it. But they acquiesced. Laken waved his hand.

“I hoped it wouldn’t be necessary. But by all means. I’ll allow more time in the evenings for time off, Mister Prost. But I don’t let a single hand work there when they have their jobs. Is that acceptable?”

“Yes, your Majesty.”

The [Steward] bowed. Laken sighed. But for this, everything would be fine. He turned his head towards Durene. Another argument. But…

Laken looked past Wiskeria, at the two [Witches] who had agreed to stay. At least until more of their kind decided to come to Riverfarm. Mavika and Alevica had left, to perform their own errands. Califor was dead. Belavierr had left…

But four [Witches] remained in Riverfarm. Three stood in this room. One, who was Laken’s [General], a [Witch] and a [General] who believed in order. In law. Two more of the old kind, the old ways, who practiced their craft as they saw fit. And one…

“And how is Nanette?”

Eloise and Hedag paused. Both were sipping cups of tea now. It was Hedag who replied, easily as if they chatted. But Hedag always had an edge, even in kindness.

“Alive. Would you prefer another answer, [Emperor]-boy?”

Gamel stirred at the address. Laken just shook his head.

“No. But neither do I wish her to suffer, Witch Hedag. If it would be easier for her elsewhere—”

Eloise shook her head.

“[Witches] do not run from their pain, Emperor Godart. She cannot run from this forever. It will catch up to her slowly, in years and decades perhaps, but this is a battle she must fight.”

Hedag nodded, in perfect agreement. Laken sighed.

“What does she need, then?”

“Time.”

The answer came from both [Witches]. It felt…insufficient. Laken shook his head. Time? For a daughter who had watched…

Witch Califor.

The statue was still not finished. What could you add to it? Witch Califor, who died for us? Witch Califor, who moved fire to save a village? Witch Califor, Mother to Nanette.

Who was forced to die so that Belavierr’s daughter might live. Laken could sense Wiskeria standing still. Still as stone. What could you say?

Nothing. And Nanette? Not a word at all. So Laken just nodded.

“Of course. Keep her safe, Witch Eloise, Witch Hedag. Some in Riverfarm are still…prejudiced. After all they’ve seen.”

“And what should we keep her safe from, your Majesty? People? She will walk among them all her days. If she remains a [Witch].”

A cool reply from Hedag. Laken shook his head. He valued their words. But it was exceptionally hard to argue with a [Witch].

“Go, Prost. Go, all of you. If you want to deal with the Goblins, take it into your own hands.”

And I hope you all get splinters.

The [Emperor] sighed. But at least it was better than death.





Day of Laughter



The Goblins waited through the night for the Humans to attack. But they never did. There was shouting in the night, and Humans with bows came close to the border. The Redfangs ordered all the Goblins who couldn’t fight to fall back. They were prepared to fight if arrows came out of the forests.

But they never did. The certain-death never came, and it would have been certain death. Pebblesnatch could count how many Humans there were. And yet, the attack never came. The watchful Goblins waited, as the injured [Thief] moaned as Ulvama packed an ointment into her wound and bandaged it. The [Shaman] was worried. Even though she’d encouraged the stealing!

“How else?”

She looked blank when Pebblesnatch angrily confronted her. The [Shaman] swept a hand around the Goblin’s territory. Full of things to eat—but not crops. Not eggs, or animals. How else would they get the food she wanted? That Pebblesnatch made?

Not like that! Pebblesnatch glared. What about what that angry Human had said? Trading? Ulvama scowled.

“Don’t trust Humans. They hate us. Hate you. Hate me.”

She poked Pebblesnatch. This was a fact. Pebblesnatch swatted her hand down, furiously.

“Not all bad!”

She thought of Erin. Who was so kind. Ulvama snorted. She turned away.

“Because you are small. Me? They are not kind to me. Or other Goblins who have what they want. Do not be stupid.”

She sat moodily, with her back facing Pebblesnatch. And her posture radiated…Pebblesnatch faltered. She walked back out of the hut. She thought that for once, if she’d argued, Ulvama would have actually hit her.

Leafarmor explained what Ulvama had meant. Pebblesnatch’s eyes widened as Leafarmor explained. The Hobgoblin grinned. But it wasn’t a smile.

“Lots of Humans. Redfangs who get captured. Female. Nearly happened to me.”

“Did?”

The Hobgoblin laughed.

“No. Redfangs killed them. Humans take off pants! Easy to stab!”

She laughed, and some of the other Redfangs laughed too. Pebblesnatch nodded. Leafarmor grew pensive.

“Goblins die either way. Just die later. Chance. You wait and then stab. Or wait and maybe live. Ulvama lived. If Humans attack—might live again. I? I would rather kill.”

She was making more throwing axes. All the Redfangs were. They were arming themselves. Cheerfully. They were more animated than Pebblesnatch had ever seen. As if the coming battle were something to rejoice at.

She didn’t understand. The Redfangs were even telling jokes. They were laughing. She hadn’t heard a Goblin laugh since…before. Since the battle with the Goblin Lord. But today, they were in good spirits.

“Kill at least four! At least four, or Garen will pull out tongue!”

Raidpear was exhorting the other six. The smaller Redfangs grinned.

“Four? Pull off arms and beat you if not eight!”

One of the Redfangs grinned, hefting her dagger. The others laughed again. Pebblesnatch wasn’t laughing. She was afraid. But Leafarmor was grinning. She came over to the others and waved a claw.

“Joke, joke!”

They quieted down. Even Pebblesnatch leaned in. Leafarmor looked around conspiratorially.

“Redfangs fight and Redfangs die. Garen leads to kill the Goblin Lord. And Garen dies. Redfangs fight and Redfangs die. The last are here. The Humans try to keep like pets. Shout—‘why so ungrateful?’ when get bit! And the last Redfangs die.”

She paused, looking around. All the Redfangs were nodding. Leafarmor dropped the last part of the joke.

“And dead-Garen? He sighs. He goes to Redfangs and says ‘stupid Raidpear! Stupid Redfangs’! Meant to be killing other Goblins! Not Humans! Slaughter Goblins first, humans later! Go back and do it right!”

The group exploded into laughter. Redfangs guffawed until tears came to their eyes. Pebblesnatch, sitting among them, stared around. She didn’t get it.

It was a terrible joke. A sad joke. The Redfangs began counting how many of the Goblin Lord’s Goblins they’d killed before the Humans attacked. Practically none of Reiss’ Goblins had survived. What few there were weren’t even represented among the living Goblins here. They talked about other Redfangs who’d died. Laughing.

“Why?”

Pebblesnatch burst out at last. She looked at the others. The Redfangs paused. They stared at her. Pebblesnatch pointed.

“Why?”

Why laughing? It made no sense? The Redfangs quieted. At last, Raidpear shrugged. He sharpened the improvised spear as he looked at Leafarmor.

“Not funny. Not really. But—too many tears. Ran out a long time ago. So laughter.”

He looked at Pebblesnatch, no longer laughing or smiling. The Cave Goblin paused.

“Oh.”

She went and tried the magic door. But it still didn’t work. Pebblesnatch thought Ulvama would be there, laughing right with the Redfangs. Maybe that would be better.





Wall Day



The Humans did not attack the next day either. Ulvama was ready for them, though. She’d emerged from her hut after working long after her conversation with Pebblesnatch. The next day, she summoned Raidpear and Leafarmor.

She had her bone dyes ready, and a crude brush made of her own hair. Pebblesnatch watched as Ulvama traced sigils all up and down Raidpear’s chest. Leafarmor had her armor, but she hadn’t finished Raidpear’s. So Ulvama was applying…

Paint. It didn’t seem great, but she insisted on doing the same to Leafarmor’s face. And like the armor of leaves, looks were deceiving.

“Hard.”

Raidpear blinked as he struck his chest. Leafarmor tried. She punched Raidpear hard and swore. The paint was hard as stone! Pebblesnatch, awed, kicked Raidpear in the back of the head.

He scowled at her. The paint hadn’t been applied there yet. Ulvama smacked all three as she scowled and did Raidpear’s other arm.

“Magic wears off! Don’t hit! Idiots!”

It would last a few blows in battle. The [Shaman] had other tricks too. She pointed at Raidpear.

“When Humans attack, come. I make you bigger.”

“Doesn’t help.”

Ulvama hit him with the bowl. Raidpear grinned.

“Larger. [Berserk]. You will be very angry. Grow bigger.”

“Like Tremborag?”

Leafarmor blinked. She was very impressed. Ulvama shrugged.

“Smaller than Tremborag. It works best on one. A group gets only bit bigger. You don’t die, even when all the blood is gone. Won’t stop fighting or notice wounds. Then—the magic goes away. You die. Fall over, dead.”

Raidpear internalized the news silently. He nodded.

“Good. Give to me. I fight Troll.”

He looked at Leafarmor. She shrugged.

“I find [Emperor].”

Pebblesnatch didn’t like it. She didn’t like how they talked. When the Humans attacked. When. It was such a certainty, even though the [Emperor] had promised. But Ulvama laughed at his promises.

“When. When it happens…”

She trailed off.

“Some Goblins run. Maybe live.”

“Humans see all.”

Ulvama busily brushed paint over Leafarmor’s face.

“Maybe. I will cast [Camouflage]. Stupid little Cave Goblins don’t need to fight.”

Pebblesnatch glared. But she said nothing. Finished, Ulvama nodded. She’d done the sigils in red and black. They stood out on the Redfangs, but not too much. It looked much like their traditional war paint.

“Garen knew [Shaman]. Redfang paint like [Shaman] paint. But different.”

The Redfangs nodded. Ulvama looked at Pebblesnatch.

“Little Goblin runs away. Tomorrow—before Humans attack. I will give names.”

The Goblins looked up. Ulvama scowled.

“Proper names. So you have a name. And when you die, other Goblins remember you. Through memory.”

The three Goblins stared at Ulvama. She shook her head.

“That’s why you need proper names. Idiots. Hold still.”



—-



The Humans were moving on the borders of the Goblin territory. Pebblesnatch saw them. The other Redfangs were armed, covered in their symbolic paint when the three Hobs emerged. They moved to the border. Out of bow-range. To see what the enemy was doing.

They saw…an army there. But not the army they expected. Ulvama, Raidpear, and Leafarmor blinked. There were many Humans there, some with bows who raised them as the Goblins appeared. But no one shot. And the Humans with bows and weapons and armor were one thing.

But there were hundreds, no, thousands of Humans busy at work. They were shouting, grabbing nails, wood, even building a crane-thing! Some had stone, and the rest were making…

A wall. Yes. A wall. It was already hundreds of feet long—well, the foundations were being dug in some places while the Humans had managed to put up actual wood and stone in others. The wall was ten feet tall at its highest. And it was facing the Goblins.

“What?”

The Goblins stared. What was going on? Most of the Humans were helping with the wall. Almost all had weapons, or grabbed for hammers when they saw the Goblins, but they kept working. They were making a wall.

“Don’t need a wall. Could kill us all.”

Leafarmor pointed out. The Humans outnumbered the Goblins by so many! But they were building a wall. Because…

It took the Goblins a long time to figure it out, but they picked up on the distant voices. The Humans were building a wall because they weren’t allowed to kill the Goblins. Their [Emperor] forbade it, but in the name of safety from evil Goblin [Thieves]—of which there had in fact, only ever been one—they were building a huge wall that would encircle the entire Goblin territory.

Off-duty. Humans came and went. They had actual jobs; this was what Laken Godart had allowed in their free time off. But every Human in Riverfarm, young and old, was helping in the spare time they’d been allotted. [Engineers], [Farmers], wives, husbands, children.

They worked together, Lancrel folk and townsfolk and strangers and Riverfarm’s original number. Mister Prost, Durene—working shoulder-to-shoulder, talking, laughing even at times, and keeping a wary eye on the Goblins. It was an outpouring of community and togetherness.

The Goblins were less-than-pleased by the neighborly spirit themselves. They did not like another reminder of being caged, and the wall was going to encircle all their territory, as stupid an idea as that was. It would stretch miles! But the Humans thought it was a good idea. If you couldn’t kill the Goblins, why not make sure they wouldn’t attack in the night? They wanted to make the wall ten feet high—no, twenty! A solid, smooth wall so the Goblins couldn’t climb over.

Pebblesnatch would have just dug under it. Honestly, if she had to, she’d have used a ladder. Or a rope. Or…it would certainly discourage that one Goblin who’d been stealing. But the arrow had already done that. Still—the Humans didn’t attack.

That relieved Pebblesnatch. But not Ulvama or the others. They watched the wall go up. The Humans were good at building. The first section of the wall was already done, well, mostly. The Humans had decided some of them would patrol at night. It was all voluntary, since their [Emperor] didn’t demand it. But they weren’t going to let the stinking Goblins get past.

The stinking Goblins stared at the wall. When it became clear no one was going to kill them, Leafarmor and Raidpear washed their faces. Pebblesnatch wasn’t sure if they were disappointed or relieved.





Doll Day



After a while, Pebblesnatch got used to the wall. It kept going up, and kept growing longer. At first, the Humans worked on it every spare chance, but after a solid week of building, they got bored, or tired of chopping down trees and getting stones and digging and such.

Fewer Humans came by. But there were still several hundred who devoted every day to it. And there were always Humans on the walls, sometimes with bows, but sometimes with just torches at night, keeping an eye out.

The Redfangs were annoyed by it. They opined that they could sneak up and cut half the throats on the wall before the Humans so much as noticed. Who used fire at night? They were just blinding themselves. It annoyed them, to see the smug Humans.

But the wall was well within Human territory, and the no-person’s-land between the Goblins and Humans wasn’t too noticeable. You could wander into it, but Pebblesnatch found it was easy for her to ignore most of the time. She had a vocation. Cooking.

The only annoying bit for her were the children. They’d run along parts of the wall that were finished and throw stones and jeer at any Goblin in sight. The Goblins, wary of the bows from the Humans, usually just avoided the missiles, but some of the children began to gain classes and their rocks grew more accurate. Sometimes a Human would chastise them and they’d run off, but half of the adults were more than happy enough to turn another eye.

One time, a Human boy as tall as Pebblesnatch threw a rock when she was gathering woodlice. She dodged it, but the stone was heavy and it nearly hit her in the face! She grabbed the stone, about to throw back. The jeering boy paused—

And Pebblesnatch saw a Human with a bow on the wall staring at her. She dropped the stone, went out of throwing range. The Human scolded the boy. But he was there the next day.

Still, if that was all there was to it, Pebblesnatch would have been happy. But the Redfangs began to train, preparing themselves for the ‘someday’ Ulvama and the Hobs feared. More attention went towards the mines, where the Goldstone tribe Goblin had found iron ore.

He had a name now. Chanium. Which was a stupid name, but Ulvama insisted it had been the right one. She’d been giving some Goblins names, as rewards.

Pebblesnatch didn’t have one, even though Ulvama had offered. Raidpear and Leafarmor were the same. They had proper names, no matter what Ulvama said. Ulvama had told Pebblesnatch she could be called Lecci. Pebblesnatch had laughed her butt off! Lecci! Ulvama couldn’t do good names!

The [Shaman] had smacked her for that. But it was true that Chanium seemed proud of his name, since he hadn’t even had a nickname. And the Goblins were experimenting with the iron ore. You could melt it, make it into weapons. The Mountain City Goblins had proved surprisingly good at this concept—after all, Tremborag’s mountain had possessed Goblin [Smiths] and the ‘civilized’ Goblins liked metal more than the other tribes.

Pebblesnatch just cooked. She found more ingredients, now that the Humans had blocked off access to easy greens. Some of the Cave Goblins had planted the seeds left over from some of their meals, and they were zealously checking the spots. There were even a few shoots and the budding [Growers] were very pleased at the idea of free food.

But for now, Pebblesnatch was trying to make insects tasty. Which, generally, involved using her dwindling supply of flour and deep-frying the insects to make them breaded—or glazing them with some sugar. It worked! But it was hardly filling, and Pebblesnatch was worried about the day when the flour or sugar ran out.

Sometimes the shouty Human, Gamel, came by to ask if the Goblins wanted to trade. Anything. But no Goblin ever answered. Ulvama, Raidpear, Leafarmor, all were in agreement. The Humans got nothing.

Pebblesnatch didn’t understand. Surely they could give the Humans something. Shiny rocks! She’d gather them herself for more flour, or lemons. But Ulvama refused.

“Don’t give them anything. They want something. We give them nothing. We are prisoners. They have power. Don’t need more.”

She would scold Pebblesnatch. The little Cave Goblin just shook her head. Ulvama, the Redfangs, the other Goblins—they stared at the Humans standing on the walls. Stared up. Glared. At the ‘better’ Humans. As if Goblins were automatically worse.

Erin had never said Pebblesnatch was worse. The Cave Goblins had been worse than scum, compared to the Raskghar. But they had killed their masters. Won their freedom. In a way, Pebblesnatch’s self-esteem was higher than any of the other tribes. She thought that was awfully funny.



—-



One day, as she was circuiting the edge of the Human’s wall, Pebblesnatch saw a strange sight. There was a…blue thing, sitting in the grass.

It wasn’t a boulder, or an animal. And it had a pokey head. Pebblesnatch stared at it. She thought it was some odd rock, until it moved and she realized.

It was a Human. The Cave Goblin instead backed up. A Human? On this side of the wall? Were they attacking?

No. It was just one Human. And she…was just sitting there. In the grass. She must have walked through one of the gaps in the unfinished wall. It was easy to do, but only a Human could have done it; a Goblin would surely have been spotted.

But why had she done it? She surely knew the Goblin lands were close by. There was a thin, thin gap between the Human’s wall and the land that was…Goblin. Pebblesnatch could even feel it—she was on the edge right now. The Human was just a bit distant, still on the Human’s side. But past the wall.

Pebblesnatch stared. It was a [Witch], she realized. They had pointy hats. Ulvama had told her Human [Witches] were like [Mages], but dangerous in other ways. Sometimes very dangerous.

This one didn’t look dangerous, though. She was a girl. Almost as small as Pebblesnatch. Young. Pebblesnatch knew Humans grew very, very slowly. But this was a girl no matter how you sliced it.

She was sitting in the grass. Just…sitting. She had a basket lying next to her, filled with a few herbs. And a sickle in the other. A good one. Pebblesnatch saw the nice steel, carefully maintained. But the [Witch]-girl didn’t move.

She just sat there, with a blank expression on her face. Her little blue hat sat on her head. She looked ahead, as the sun shone down on her. But there was nothing in her.

Blankness. Pebblesnatch had seen it before. On Cave Goblins, even Raskghar, who just…gave up. She’d seen it on some of the Goblins who’d died in the wagons, on the way here. Something inside them was gone.

The little [Witch] sat like a doll in the grass as the Cave Goblin watched. Some of the Humans walking along the wall, building, it, eventually saw her. They pointed in alarm. Pebblesnatch assumed they’d rush out and grab her, but no one did. A few hurried off to the village, but the rest just stared.

It was not a friendly stare. Some looked sympathetic, others worried, but some looked…mean. And Pebblesnatch heard a whisper.

“Witch.”

The little [Witch] never moved. She just sat there, until a figure walked through the gaps in the walls. The other Humans drew back as an elderly [Witch] with a faded hat with flowers walked towards the witch-girl. She too was unafraid. She bent, and to Pebblesnatch’s astonishment, scolded the girl for all the wrong reasons.

“Nanette, if you’re going to gather herbs, you might as well gather them. If you will sit, sit somewhere where ants won’t crawl up on you. Come now.”

She pulled at the girl. Listlessly, the [Witch] like a doll rose. She followed Eloise as the tea-witch escorted her back, helping pick up her things. Eloise said nothing about the dangers of Goblins. She just spoke, half kindly, half sternly.

“You must choose. Embrace your pain. Hate me. Strike me. Curse me. But do it as a [Witch] or not. Califor was a [Witch], the best of us. And your mother, but a [Witch] nonetheless. You cannot deny that.”

The name made the witch called Nanette start. Just for a second. Eloise patted her gently.

“You cannot run from her name. Take the pain, girl. Use it. Don’t hold it, like you do. It will burn you away. But it is your choice. Come now. The folk are staring. And we are polite to them. Even if they are sometimes fools. They cannot change the truth with whispers.”

She drew Nanette away. The Humans parted for her, and the old witch and the young one walked through them. Just once Eloise looked back. And she looked straight at Pebblesnatch, whom no one else had seen.

“Stay away from them. [Witches] are danger.”

That was all Ulvama said when Pebblesnatch told her about the encounter. She hit Pebblesnatch for being so careless and risking being hit by the stones, and made Pebblesnatch make some crepes. Ulvama liked crepes. She missed milk. But she wouldn’t trade with the Humans.





Throwing Day



Pebblesnatch saw Nanette, the doll-witch as the Cave Goblin thought of her, every day since then. She was always gathering herbs, or plants along the Goblin’s border. It was wild after all, and but for the wall, there were many good things growing there.

She seemed to be doing it on purpose. She’d walk around the wall, walk through the no-person’s-zone, and gather a few herbs. Stop. Sometimes she’d stand, or sit for hours.

Pebblesnatch thought it was to get away from the Humans. Even the other [Witches] who came to get her, the one with spectacles who was always bowing to Nanette, the big one with the axe and muscles who laughed and smelled like danger, and the old, kind one, all had trouble finding her there. They were [Witches], but that didn’t mean omniscient. And the [Emperor] must have had trouble ‘seeing’ her too, so close to Goblin lands.

A fifth [Witch] appeared after a few days. A terrible one. Crows flew around her and no Human would go near her. She terrified Pebblesnatch. She was cruelest to the little [Witch]. She would walk around her, saying the dead [Witch]’s name. And another.

“Califor. Belavierr. If you would be a [Witch] of ills, or mourn her death, draw out your pain. Or if you would forsake all that, remove your hat. But do or die, for in close time, what you hold will see you slain.”

They all bothered the little [Witch]. But she ignored them all. She just sat there, and sometimes Pebblesnatch would watch her.

But someone else watched her too. The Humans. At first they tried to talk to her, convince her not to stray near the Goblins. But she ignored them as thoroughly as everyone else. She was oblivious, and blank.

And soon, the kindly Humans disappeared. And the ones who whispered that word remained.

“Witch.”

It was a curse, apparently. Some of the Humans hated [Witches]. And thus, they hated her. A few of the boys and girls running down the walls would shout the name and scatter.

“Witch!”

Hatred. Pebblesnatch understood that, at least. After a few days, the children switched targets. They still threw stones at Goblins, but Goblins never got hit by stones. Even the one boy with [Unerring Throw] couldn’t nail Pebblesnatch. She just caught the stone. But there was another target.

The day came when Pebblesnatch was walking around, hunting for a strange herb she’d seen the [Witches] fussing over. It was something Pebblesnatch rarely saw growing around here.

A glowing, red patch of grass. Sage’s Grass. Ulvama made an incredible fuss over it. Any Goblin had to give it to her. But Pebblesnatch wanted it for herself!

It had to taste good. It glowed. Ergo, it had to taste good. The Cave Goblin had searched for hours for the stuff. At last, she found a nice patch right by the border, near the wall.

She grabbed the glowing grass triumphantly. Success! And Ulvama would never know! Until Pebblesnatch made a lovely…something out of it!

The Cave Goblin [Cook] nibbled at the grass. It tasted…like grass.

Her face fell. It wasn’t so much a taste as a…lack of it. It was just grass, and that was no good.

But hold on. Pebblesnatch felt a tingling in her mouth. She blinked.

Magic. It was concentrated in this grass. And magic was a taste. It was like fizz, but different. More…she could work with this. The little Goblin stowed the Sage’s Grass in her hide carry-bag for experimentation later. Magic food was rare and she was going to make something good out of it!

She only noticed the little [Witch] when she heard the hoots and calling. Distant, a group of the stone-throwing children were on the wall. There were only a few of them. Two dozen at most, compared to all the children in Riverfarm. Pebblesnatch had learned to avoid them if they saw her, so she prepared to block a whizzing stone coming at her face.

But it wasn’t her they were aiming at. The little Goblin looked, and saw a still figure. The girl.

Nanette. The witch-girl was sitting in the grass. Like a…thing…she’d just run out of energy and stopped. Like she often did, she was just sitting, her hat shading her from the sun.

But this time, the Human children had decided to pick on her. Pebblesnatch saw stones hitting the grass around the [Witch]. This was new. She looked around.

No Human adults were in sight. They’d gotten more and more tired of staring at the empty Goblin territory. The wall was mostly done in a lot of places, anyways. It was hardly encircling all of Goblin territory, but a ten-foot-high wall encircled the easily-accessible routes towards Riverfarm. That was enough.

And it meant the stupid Human children had free reign. Pebblesnatch saw a girl throw a stone.

“Witch!”

They offered no reason for the fury that made them throw stones. They might not even have been able to articulate it. But they shouted. It was part hate—part glee. Pebblesnatch thought their faces looked like Raskghar. She glared.

A stone landed in the grass next to Nanette. But the little [Witch] never moved. She never blinked. She didn’t care.

Soon, it became a game. The children, frustrated, wanted to make her react. Even the Goblins would block stones or just walk away. Pebblesnatch saw one boy she recognized.

The one with [Unerring Throw]. He had some stones and he sailed them at Nanette. First they shot past her, landing within a few feet. But as the others egged him on, the stones drew closer. Closer.

One whizzed past the young witch’s head. But she didn’t look up. Pebblesnatch, breathless, was staring. Her heart was constricting. The children were chanting as the boy picked up another stone.

“Witch! Witch! Witch!”

The stone hit the [Witch] in the shin. Pebblesnatch saw it bounce off her leg. And Nanette didn’t move. There was a silence and the children on the wall prepared to scatter. But the girl didn’t move.

After a moment, another stone flew. It hit the girl on the side. A pause. And then another. Pebblesnatch stared at the children. They were looking around for the other [Witches]. Other Humans.

Where were they? Pebblesnatch waited. But no one was coming. And the children had turned gleeful. Horribly gleeful, like Raskghar pulling off legs.

“Do it!”

Another rock hit the witch-girl. This time it bounced off her chest. Pebblesnatch listened. She was growing hotter.

She should leave. One of the [Witches] would come soon, and if it was the one with crows, Pebblesnatch was sure the children would pay. But none of them did. And the boy on the wall was taking aim. They were all shouting it now.

“Witch!”

It sounded like ‘Goblin’. It had the same cadence, same tone. Only the word was different. And the last stone hit the [Witch] girl on the face.

It cut open her cheek, next to the nose. The children stared at the blood. They cheered. Pebblesnatch saw the little [Witch] staring ahead. The Cave Goblin stared at the [Witch]. The stone-throwers were preparing to go. One last stone—they were pointing at the hat.

You needed a poofy hat.

Pebblesnatch burst out of the grass. She didn’t know when she started running. Nor did she have her hat on. But before the last stone flew, she was running.

Running at the wall.

The Human children didn’t even realize what they were looking at, at first. The angry Cave Goblin was so fast she was halfway to the wall before they spotted her. But then one of the girls pointed.

“Goblin!”

They turned. They saw Pebblesnatch and faltered. Fear, mortal and sudden, engulfed them.

But—it was only one Cave Goblin. The boy with the stone took aim. He hurled it at Pebblesnatch. The Cave Goblin raised one arm and blocked the stone before it could hit her eye. She felt a stinging pain on her arm. But that was nothing to what lay in her heart.

She ran through a gap in the wall. The stupid Humans still had them. The children were screaming now, running.

“Goblin! Goblin!”

They were calling the alarm. But they weren’t terrified. There was one Cave Goblin, and many of them. They were her size. A few of the large ones raised their fists, grabbing rocks.

That was their mistake. They thought size made them equal. They forgot Pebblesnatch, small though she was, Cave Goblin though she was, was a Goblin. She had killed monsters. She had fought, been trained by Rabbiteater.

She charged up the stairs the Humans had built. The first boy swung a rock. Pebblesnatch kicked him off the wall. She seized the next, brought her head forwards. She broke something. Probably a face.

The Cave Goblin was surrounded by Humans. They screamed as the first boy landed and shrieked in agony as he hit the ground, ten feet down. The others raised their stones. They screamed, opening their mouths wide.

The Cave Goblin’s jaws opened, exposing a double row of sharp teeth. The Humans looked into that mouth and paled. Pebblesnatch bit. She grabbed another arm, snatched the stone, and began bashing everything in sight.

The screaming children’s voices didn’t attract anyone at first. But eventually, someone did hear the shriek. And then—there was a horn. Pebblesnatch heard shouting.

“Goblin!”

She looked up from kicking the boy with [Unerring Throw] in the stomach. Pebblesnatch had a few bruises, nothing else. The children had either fled or were lying on the ground. Every time one got up, Pebblesnatch hit them.

She froze as the Humans thundered at her. They had bows. And one burst out of the trees near the wall. He saw the scene. Took aim.

Pebblesnatch dove off the walls. The arrow missed. The Cave Goblin landed on one of the children she’d thrown, scrambled up.

She ran. But the Humans didn’t stop at the walls. They saw the children, saw the Goblin running. And they crossed the wall.



—-



The day the Goblins had waited for came out of nowhere. It began with Pebblesnatch, running, horns, blaring. The Redfangs, training by themselves, looked up and heard death in the air.

They grabbed their weapons. Raidpear held still as Ulvama frantically painted the magic sigils on his body. Leafarmor just laughed.

“Run.”

The Hobgoblin patted Pebblesnatch’s head. She walked out of the hut, holding her throwing axes. Other Goblins joined her.

Mountain City Goblins. Flooded Waters Goblins. Cave Goblins. Those who wanted to fight. They joined the eight Redfangs as Raidpear left his hut. Ulvama took her staff. She walked out with them.

Pebblesnatch was frozen. The [Shaman] hit Pebblesnatch once, as she passed. Hard as she’d ever hit Pebblesnatch. The Cave Goblin’s head rang. Then, Ulvama stopped. She bent, and picked up some mud. She dabbed it on Pebblesnatch’s face.

“Magic. Run away, stupid little Goblin. I told you it was coming.”

The [Shaman] said nothing more. She turned. And Pebblesnatch ran for the magic door. Ran for the glowing gemstone set in the bark.

But the door was still empty. The magic didn’t work. And the Humans came.

An army of them. Shouting Humans, some with furious woodcutting axes, sickles, pitchforks. More with bows. None of the Goblins laughed. Each tool was a weapon. And more and more armed Humans were coming.

They’d crossed into the Goblin’s land. The Humans were already nearly eight hundred strong and growing by the second. They might have charged then and there, but only one thing stopped them.

Eight Redfangs. Leafarmor and Raidpear among them. Ulvama. Nearly a hundred of the Goblins willing to fight. They stood in a casual line, crude, improvised weapons in hand.

And they grinned. Green skin, crimson eyes. The Goblin grinned in the face of an army eight times their size. No, twelve times. They grinned at the Humans and their numbers, their weapons.

They were waiting for all of them. Ulvama’s body paint was glowing. The air around the [Shaman] was crackling. And Raidpear’s eyes were glowing brighter and brighter. They were waiting for the Troll. And the [Emperor].

He arrived amid the loudest shouting. His [Soldiers] forced the Humans back. Furiously arguing. The [Emperor] was surrounded by furious Humans, pointing back at poor, damaged children. The Goblins waited. Leafarmor was swinging her axe up.

“Wait. Wait. [Curving Blades, Blood Torrent].”

Ulvama was chanting, touching Leafarmor’s axe. The hatchet was sparkling with magic. Leafarmor was nodding, bouncing the axe up and down. Taking careful aim.

They waited too long. Because there was a shadow in the sky. Ulvama looked up. Crows darkened the skies.

The [Witches] had arrived. One of them appeared out of a flurry of crows. Another strode forwards, axe in hand, a smile as harsh as the sun on her face. Another [Witch] appeared on horseback, wand in hand.

The last [Witch] helped a little [Witch] forwards. They spotted Ulvama and Leafarmor’s axe.

“Stop the [Shaman].”

Mavika croaked. The four [Witches] instantly walked towards Ulvama. They made their way through the Humans as if they weren’t there. Ulvama let go of Leafarmor’s arm. She grasped her staff.

“Witches.”

It was a curse. The [Shaman] planted her staff in the ground. The four [Witches] looked at her. Mavika snapped her fingers.

The air grew heavy around Ulvama. She staggered. Feathers seemed to choke the Goblins near her. Leafarmor jumped back. The [Shaman] was choking. She raised her staff, brought it down.

Sparks. Mavika’s clothing began to smoke. Eloise flicked her fingers and the fire went out. Hedag planted her feet in the earth, brought the butt of her axe down and rested her weight on the top.

Ulvama staggered. Wiskeria pointed at Leafarmor’s axe, speaking fast. The glowing axe began to dim. The Hobgoblin jerked. She turned, aiming—

“An arm is an arm, as long as it wields the blade. Hold, Goblin. Stay.”

Hedag called out. She lifted her arm, a mirror of Leafarmor. The Hobgoblin froze. Her muscles strained as she tried to throw at the obscured [Emperor]. But Hedag’s arm jerked in the air and then refused to budge. The [Witch] and Hobgoblin locked gazes, engaged in a silent tug-of-war.

Raidpear looked at Ulvama. She was struggling, trying to breathe. Eloise and Mavika were both—pushing down on her. The [Shaman]’s magic paint was cracking on her body, flaking off.

“Now?”

Leafarmor looked at the [Emperor]. Raidpear glanced at her. The [Witches] would win. And more Humans were getting in the way.

“Now.”

The two Hobgoblins walked forwards. The smaller Redfangs advanced in a line. They were all grinning, joking. Laughing. The Humans saw them.

“Goblin! By order of his Majesty, Laken Godart, halt!”

A Human shouted. But the Goblins kept walking. They swung their weapons up. Closer. The Humans faltered.

Had they seen Goblins? Killed them? Surely. But look at us. Look at us again. The crimson eyes glowed. The Goblins laughed. We don’t fear you.

Time to die. The [Emperor] pointed.

“Halt!”

But they refused to obey. The [Witches] were turning. Telling the Goblins to stop. But on they marched. Forwards, forwards, towards the Human.

And a Goblin with a poofy white hat. A chef’s hat. The Hobgoblin’s march faltered. They stared.

No one had seen Pebblesnatch. Not Goblins, or Humans. Maybe the [Witches] had, but Ulvama’s spell had been powerful. Pebblesnatch was in front of the other Goblins. She’d charged, thinking they were going to.

She had on her white hat. It was dirty, but tall. It had all the authority of a cook. And Pebblesnatch had a weapon.

The cooking ladle. She couldn’t find anything else in time. So she’d grabbed it and run with the others. To death. To destiny that Humans brought.

But she hadn’t expected them to stroll. Pebblesnatch had many things, but she had no sense of drama. The slow walk of the Goblins meant she’d charged right past them.

At the Humans.

The Cave Goblin didn’t even realize she was alone at first. She charged with a wild cry as the [Camouflage] spell ended. Every eye turned to her.

“What the—”

A huge half-Troll was standing with the [Emperor] demanding the idiots around him get back now! Durene spotted Pebblesnatch. The Cave Goblin faltered as she looked around. Where were the others?

They were staring at her in shock. Ulvama cursed as she fell to her knees. Mavika was pressing down on her, her clawed hands outstretched. Hedag had Leafarmor’s arm. And Eloise was hurrying towards Laken.

“Durene!”

Laken Godart snapped. Bemused, Durene stared down at the hated Goblin. Everyone did.

The Goblin was wearing a cook’s hat. And she had grey skin. She was no more than a child. She turned dead-white as she realized she was in front. But she charged, screaming.

The half-Troll [Paladin] moved to block the blind [Emperor]. She had a shield, metal armor. A club as big as Pebblesnatch. Bigger. The Cave Goblin had a ladle, a hat, and fury.

“Stop that. Get back.”

Durene tried not to hit the little Cave Goblin. The ladle smacked her armored knee. Pebblesnatch scaled the tower shield Durene tried to block her with. Like a spider, she climbed Durene’s arm. The half-Troll girl panicked.

“Get it off! Get it off!”

She flailed reflexively. One of the Humans was caught by a fist and went flying. Laken was shouting.

“Don’t hurt her! Durene!”

“Get it off! It’s on me!”

The half-Troll girl flailed, trying to grab Pebblesnatch, but the Cave Goblin, in a berserker’s fury, had climbed up Durene’s head. She bashed at the half-Troll girl’s head, howling in fury. Suffer! Suffer! S—

Pebblesnatch stopped. The crushing hand didn’t swat her to the ground and the foot didn’t smash her flat. The hand did grab her, but it just dangled her in the air. Pebblesnatch, waving her arms and screaming, realized everyone had gone silent.

“Hold. You will not move.”

Laken Godart was on his feet. The army around him was stock-still. They stared at the Goblins, a few dozen paces away.

The Goblins stared back. They were free to move, but they were just watching Pebblesnatch. Durene, cursing, let go of Pebblesnatch. The Cave Goblin dropped to the ground.

“What is it?”

One of the Humans cried out. A Human female in a dress, behind the others. The [Emperor] turned.

“Is it standing in front of me, Gamel?”

“Yes, sire.”

“…Did you say it’s wearing a hat?”

The [Knight] stared down at Pebblesnatch, at a loss for words. The Goblin raised her ladle.

“Enough!”

The [Witches] appeared. They walked between both forces, four pointed hats. No, five. Nanette stood with them. Her bleeding cheek had stopped. And her gaze—was a little less blank. She stared at Pebblesnatch.

The Cave Goblin looked around. The [Witches] turned. Mavika’s eyes flashed.

“Who struck at a [Witch] alone?”

“Witch Mavika, what are you talking about—”

The [Emperor] fell silent as the crows flying over Mavika’s head screamed. All the Humans flinched. Even the Goblins flinched. A dark, primordial swarm of crows filled the sky. Black of wing. Huge. And a Raven landed on Mavika’s shoulder.

The [Witch] was furious. Her black, bird’s eyes looked through the crowd of Human. She shouted her voice a shriek.

“This was not the fault of Goblins. A Goblin defended a [Witch] while your ilk threw stones and cursed her name. There will be blood for shame!”

The crows in the sky circled lower. The Humans backed away. Five [Witches] stood in a line. It took Laken Godart a minute to figure out what had been said. His head jerked as Gamel whispered in her ear. The Humans looked at Nanette, saw the blood. Durene gasped. Then Laken spun.

“Who dared attack a [Witch] on my lands?”

The [Emperor] thundered. The Humans backed up. The Goblins stared. Raidpear nudged Leafarmor.

“What this?”

She shrugged. The [Witches] were furious. The Human’s wrath turned to confusion. And then dismay. Some of them protested. Mavika’s flock howled.

Pebblesnatch, staring up the sky, saw the [Witch] raise her hand. Giant crows flew out of the storm of birds. They swooped at the Humans, terrible, winged monsters from another age. The Humans screamed and fled. More crows flew after them, through the air. And then every bird in the forest and air exploded into the air. They descended on the Humans, on the village, harrying, howling like a force from hell.

A [Witch]’s wrath. The Human army fled. The [Emperor] stood his ground, trying to placate the Crow Witch’s fury. The few Humans who dared loose arrows or strike at the crows saw the huge, terrible beasts burst into smaller crows which attacked them, drawing blood, pecking at eyes.

They ran. Laken Godart eventually stopped the crows. Mavika’s fury subsided. She stormed into the village for justice. For wrath and ruin. To remind the good folk of the Unseen Empire about a pact. About why—if you were going to curse a [Witch], you had better do it right.

The last Humans fell back in disarray. They stared at the Goblins. The Goblins looked at each other. Was there a war or not? Where was there death?

It didn’t come. Raidpear’s last death, Leafarmor’s sad joke never came. The Humans fled, behind their wall. The [Emperor] followed after, for what good was an [Emperor] without subjects? And the Goblins…looked at Pebblesnatch.

The four [Witches] were all that remained. Wiskeria, Eloise, Hedag, and Nanette. They turned. And Pebblesnatch stood in front of them.

A Goblin with a hat. A poofy hat. And a ladle. A little Cave Goblin. No hero. The [Witches] stared at her.

And they chuckled. Hedag’s booming laugh, Eloise little laugh, Wiskeria’s rueful exclamation—and Nanette. The [Witch] stared at the Goblin who was her height. And she almost smiled.

Something left her. The doll of a girl stumbled. The other three [Witches] stared. Wiskeria grabbed at what it was, but missed. A raven swooped overhead, and Mavika paused and looked up. She raised a hand and caught it. With effort.

Nanette looked around. She looked sad, and lost, and confused. But she looked like these things. She looked at Pebblesnatch. And she grew very confused. But then, slowly, hesitantly, the [Witch] tipped her hat.

Pebblesnatch stared. Eloise looked at her. Hedag. Wiskeria. One by one, the three [Witches] tipped their hats. They nodded at the [Cook] and turned away.

That was all. The Goblins stared at the [Witches]. At the Humans, some of whom had dropped their weapons. The glorious Humans and their wall. The skies still filled with angry, pooing birds.

And Pebblesnatch, Pebblesnatch, who’d fought the Troll. Who’d faced the [Emperor]. And no one could say who laughed first. But first it was one, and then all.

The Goblins howled with laughter. They dropped their weapons. They clutched at their sides. Pebblesnatch stood there. And the Goblins laughed. They laughed and gasped for air. And the little [Witch] called Nanette looked back. She reached up, grabbed for something.

And missed.

It was not all perfect. It was not all good. Ulvama hit Pebblesnatch so many times the Cave Goblin was sure her head was lumpy. But then Ulvama hugged her. Pebblesnatch the [Cook]. The vanquisher of little snot-Humans. The Goblin who faced down an [Emperor]. Pebblesnatch the Mighty.



—-



The next day, the Humans awoke to a cry of alarm.

“The Goblins!”

People rushed to the walls, alarmed. And what they saw left them dumbstruck. Because what they saw was…

A wall. The Goblins had built it up in a night. Out of stone, wood. It wasn’t perfect. It was in fact, cumbersome, and a few places had fallen in. But the Goblins had a will. And they had built the wall. A bit taller than the Human’s.

There was even a gate.

“They’re building a…wall? They can’t do that!”

The aghast whisper reached Pebblesnatch’s ears. She laughed as she handed a stone up. The Goblin’s wall was taller than the Riverfarm wall. And better-built too. Or it would be. Goblins didn’t make walls for show. Theirs would be defensible, not just a barrier. Some of the Flooded Waters tribe were installing guard towers.

“Need nails.”

One of the Flooded Waters Goblins complained. They could do a lot with weight and force, but nails were great. Maybe they could forge some? The Redfangs scowled. Forging, as it turned out, was hard work! It was almost like it was hard to make iron or something?

“Get nails! Trade?”

The Goblins stared at Ulvama. She looked up and glared. She and Leafarmor and Raidpear were conversing, making plans. Leafarmor nudged Ulvama. They were going over plans.

The Goblins didn’t need to wall-off everything. They were making plans for a defensive structure. A keep, around their camp. That was efficient. But they had grand ideas.

“Walls twice as high as Humans.”

“Why?”

“Makes mad. Funny.”

The Goblins ignored the arguing Humans and the laughing [Emperor]. Leafarmor eyed the distant young man and touched the throwing axe Leafarmor had never used. But Raidpear nudged her. He nodded.

“Build big walls. Like stone city. Big walls. And mine—here. Lots of iron. Trade with Humans.”

Ulvama nodded. Reluctantly. Then she pointed to the iron mine.

“Tunnel here.”

“Through mountain?”

“Into mountain.”

The Goblins had plans. Maybe you could trust Humans. They all doubted it. Even an [Emperor]’s word. But they were stuck here. True, they had all they needed. It might even be a nice place to live. But—just in case. Just in case…

The Goblins built a wall, and Pebblesnatch decided that if they did trade for anything, it would be stuff like milk. Milk was irreplaceable. How did you get milk, anyways? She was unclear on this detail. Maybe you milked the milk-plant.



—-



That night, Pebblesnatch went to sleep and dreamed of the inn. Not in a bad way. Just remembering. The Goblins were chatting about possibility. About the future. They were…different from when they’d come here.

A figure stirred in the cot next to the little Goblin. Ulvama rose. She looked at the little Goblin. Pebblesnatch had been responsible for the change in the Goblins. From start to finish.

It was all her fault. The [Shaman] nearly poked the Cave Goblin. But in the end, she patted Pebblesnatch on the head. She rose, and left the Goblin camp, walking past the base of the walls. Past Goblins who had decided to make something here.

What an odd thought. She looked back. From afar, it almost looked like the beginning of something. A settlement. A…city. With walls. You had to have walls if you were Goblins. It looked unreal. Like someone else’s dream.

She shook her head. The [Shaman] went on. Walking into a forest. She knew the path well. She could be stealthy.

The little tree with the hiding space was empty of all the Cave Goblin’s possessions save one. A glowing, red stone glinted in the trunk. And a crude door of bark sat against the tree. Ulvama studied the stone. She picked it up, put it in the door. It seemed to fit the hole hollowed for it.

The [Shaman] swung the door open. She waited. And her eyes narrowed. But nothing happened. Slowly, she bent and inspected the glowing, red stone.

“Too far.”

Ulvama poked the stone. Her head turned. She stared south. At something in the distance. She grunted.

“Very far. Too weak.”



—-



And in an inn, Erin Solstice paced by the magic door. A yawning Lyonette cuddled Mrsha.

“Erin, stop that. What are you doing?”

“I keep telling you! I got this feeling when I was on holiday—and its back! There’s something up with this door. It’s like—I have this instinct.”

Erin was restlessly opening the door as she changed the dial to each stone on it. The door to Celum opened, then Liscor. A [Guard] in Pallass jumped as he stared at the door through a metal gate. Erin waved.

“Hi. I’m Erin.”

She closed the door and turned to Lyonette. Then—absently, she turned the dial to an unused setting.

A red stone flashed on the door. Erin stared at it. Slowly, she opened the door.

Nothing happened. Lyonette frowned sleepily at the red stone.

“What one was that for, Erin? The Bloodfields?”

“Nah, nah. That’s this one. I’m not opening it unless the workers and adventurers are here. I’m not stupid. This one’s…oh, I lost the red stone. The door to the Cave Goblin’s cave. See?”

She pointed to the door, opening and closing it absently. Nothing happened. Lyonette yawned.

“Well, stop it. I don’t care what you feel. No one wants in.”

“But I thought…aw, never mind.”

Erin wandered away from the door. After a while, the feeling vanished. The [Innkeeper] shrugged.

“Probably just my imagination. I’ve gotta upgrade that door.”

“How?”

“Um. Palt?”

“Hah.”

They went back to sleep. Erin Solstice stared at the door, and remembered a little Goblin.

“I hope you’re safe, Pebblesnatch. I hope…”

She turned away, shaking her head. Erin expected to feel the hollow pain, the wrenching guilt and…but it didn’t come. She stared blankly at the door. Touched her chest. It was probably just her imagination.

“Stay safe, little Pebblesnatch.”

Far away, a Cave Goblin rolled over and dreamed cooking dreams.





7.06


It started out with such a silly thing for such a busy day. An [Innkeeper], a cake, a white Gnoll, a Hobgoblin, an Ashfire bee. And of course…

Bird.

If you added in a harried [Princess], you had a family. Dysfunctional of sorts, and Erin would admit that she had a family. She didn’t think of them often. Her parents, back at home. She knew they must be frantic. And she had been gone for a long time.

Thoughts like that sometimes troubled Erin. So deeply she couldn’t sleep. But her mind, somehow, had seemed to develop a coping mechanism. Erin didn’t think of her home on Earth, and that was both a relief and a source of guilt when it came up.

She loved her parents. But if anyone asked her, she would have claimed this was also her family. It wasn’t fake, or a name. These were the people most precious to Erin Solstice. If Mrsha was Erin’s child in a way—so was Bird. Children of different sorts, but who needed someone to love them. Which made Lyonette the…father. Probably. Or the wife?

If you broke it down into the ‘traditional’ family matrix you began to have problems. Erin and Lyonette were the parents if Bird and Mrsha were the kids. Which made Numbtongue…

“I don’t believe it! You’re in so much trouble, mister!”

Erin’s shout in the early morning of the inn roused the customers. They looked up and waited, expectantly. But Erin was upstairs. Shouting.

“Bird’s being punished! What is this?”

Numbtongue and Bird were frozen in the midst of eating two plates of eggs. And fried chicken. They also had a stein of beer. Bird slowly put his plate behind him.

“Nothing. We are just looking at the food, Erin. Not eating it.”

“Numbtongue! How could you?”

Erin stared at the Hobgoblin, now acting in the part of rebellious teen. The Hobgoblin shrugged, a bit guiltily. Erin had thought it was odd when he asked for his breakfast, but Numbtongue ate a lot, and she’d been happy to let him eat whatever he wanted. If she hadn’t come up to ask about Bird’s breakfast, she’d never have known what they were doing.

“You know Bird’s being punished! Numbtongue—”

Erin was at a loss for words. When Lyonette came up the stairs, she too stared, then propped her hands on her hips.

“Numbtongue! Bird!”

The Antinium Worker trembled.

“Please do not take away my bird hunting privileges. There are five days left.”

“Oh, we’re going to have to take it away for longer than a week. It’s gonna be—two weeks! You’ll have to hunt rabbits or something!”

“No! They do not fly! They are nice! But tasty.”

Lyonette was nodding. Bird was aghast. The [Princess] glared at Numbtongue. He was looking less nervous than Bird.

“As for you, Numbtongue—”

“What?”

The Hobgoblin folded his arms as he sat cross-legged. Erin stared at him.

“What do you mean, ‘what?’ You know what you did! Bird’s being punished.”

“So? Stupid punishment.”

Erin and Lyonette stared at him.

“He nearly started a war.”

“For shooting Wyverns. So?”

Numbtongue picked at his teeth unapologetically. Erin frowned.

“He’s not allowed in Pallass! He knew better—”

“Yes, yes. Bad Antinium goes into Pallass. Evil Antinium, not allowed there. Like Goblins. Ooh. Bad Ant. Bad Goblin. Must punish him. Don’t punish bad Goblin!”

The [Soulbard]’s voice was just a bit sarcastic. Erin faltered.

“That’s not—Bird knew what he was doing. And you know he nearly started a war—”

Numbtongue’s shrug, was Goblin. And it had multiple answers on many levels to that. Erin hesitated. Lyonette took over, glaring sternly at Numbtongue.

“It doesn’t matter if you disagree, Numbtongue. This is Erin’s inn. And mine. And those were our rules. We’re going to have to—to take away your guitar?”

She sounded a bit uncertain here. The Hobgoblin looked at her.

“No.”

“No?”

Erin and Lyonette blinked at him. Numbtongue rose. He took his plate of food and walked past them.

“I am not a child. No punishment. Kick the bad Goblin out of the inn if you don’t like it.”

Not really a rebellious teen. His look made Erin falter. Lyonette opened her mouth—and Erin put a hand on her shoulder. She looked at Numbtongue. And didn’t talk to him like a naughty kid.

“Fine. But Bird’s different. Please let us make rules, Numbtongue.”

The Hobgoblin paused. He nearly shrugged, then he nodded. He shuffled his feet, and then muttered.

“Sorry.”

Erin nodded at him. Awkwardly, the Hobgoblin left. It was the first time Erin could remember ever disagreeing with Numbtongue. She stared at his back. And she felt embarrassed, a bit hurt—and a bit happy. Aside from Rags, few Goblins had ever pushed back. But Numbtongue was changing, even if it meant he was metaphorically hiding behind the dumpster and smoking cigarettes.

“Enough with the analogies.”

“Huh?”

Lyonette turned to Erin. She was trying to get the plate of egg and chicken from Bird.

“Give it to me, Bird. You are in trouble. Numbtongue may have offered, but you know you’re doing wrong. And you’re being punished, mister.”

Bird slowly stood up. He looked at Erin and Lyonette, the plate still held behind his back.

“I am not a child. I will not be punished.”

The [Innkeeper] and the [Princess] looked at him. Bird’s antennae drooped. Slowly, he held out the plate.

“Please do not make me punished too long.”



—-



“Everything alright up there?”

Palt the Centaur was standing by the kitchen, smoking, when Erin came downstairs. She glared at him, and then caught herself.

“Yes. It’s all fine. Why are you—”

“No smoke. I can put it out.”

The Centaur quickly fished the cigar out of his mouth. Erin eyed it.

“Why is that thing blue?”

“Ah, this is a very light plant from the sea. It’s called Mela’s Kiss, and it practically evaporates under a tiny bit of heat. And it doesn’t produce smoke, as you can see—”

The Centaur took a slow drag. Erin saw a tiny bit of vapor. Palt hesitated.

“If you want to—”

“No, it’s fine. Let’s go back to chatting.”

He was trying. Erin took a seat at the table and Palt trotted over. The Centaur hesitated, but he decided not to ask.

“Right! So, your door. As I was saying, just a few sigils around each one. I’ll mark the walls—no one will notice unless they know to look for it.”

“And I have to do what?”

“Just…give them free passage to wherever they need to go. Perhaps help them out. I’m planning on sticking around here for a while, so I’ll try to introduce you.”

“To criminals.”

Erin looked at Palt. He waved one hand.

“Criminals? No, no. The Ullsinoi faction doesn’t deal with criminals! Explicitly. Anyone who can see and read the sign is a friend of our group. Some of them may be a bit loose with the law, but we don’t treat with [Murderers] and [Cutthroats].”

“What have I gotten myself into?”

Erin rubbed at her forehead, groaning. Palt sighed.

“Miss Solstice, they’re good people. Really. I know what you must think of [Illusionists], and I admit we have a reputation—but we’re honest. Twisted, but honest.”

“Erin’s not backing out of our agreement, Mister Palt. She’s just learning to come to terms with it. Because this is what it means to have an ally, isn’t that right, Erin?”

Lyonette passed by the table, looking meaningfully at Erin. The [Innkeeper] sighed. They’d had a chat about diplomacy. One of the instances where Lyonette taught Erin about the world.

“Yeah. It’s fine, Palt. So—they’ll come here if they need transportation? Or help? How much help am I giving them?”

The Centaur took a puff of his blue cigar.

“…As much help as you see fit, Miss Solstice. By all means, give the minimum. But if you help them, we’ll compensate you for your time. That’s how the Ullsinoi faction does things. It’s a give and take. Sometimes, yes, some people might be coming through with trouble on their heels. You don’t need to shelter them if it’s bad. It’s under your discretion. But other times, if they’re looking for help, say, finding an adventuring team, or an item, or they just, say, really need to get somewhere fast—give them a helping hoof.”

“So I’m like…”

“An [Innkeeper]?”

Lyonette passed by again, this time with a large pitcher of wine headed for a table that held Montressa and Beza. Erin stared at her back. She turned to Palt. The Centaur was coughing into one fist.

“She’s giving me lots of lip these days. Okay, that sounds reasonable. So—if they see the sigil, or trace it, I know they’re from your faction.”

“Usually. There are a few phrases I’d like you to memorize. And we’ll leave you some way of getting in touch with one of our representatives. I’ll be here, obviously. And if you have any questions—”

“Right, right. Um. How long will you be here? What about Montressa and Beza?”

Erin glanced at the two [Mages]. They were day-drinking, which, apparently, wasn’t uncommon in Wistram. The two weren’t quite glaring at Palt. He twiddled his thumbs as he didn’t look their way.

“They have a vested interest in your door, Miss Solstice. And looking for more people like you. I think they want to negotiate with you on behalf of their factions.”

“Should I say yes?”

“I’d…like to hear whatever they’re offering. It’s your choice, but it could get tricky. And inter-factional politics in Wistram can get messy. But as I said, I’m not bound to Montressa. I can take time to help you, especially since the Elusive Lot considers you an asset. And anything you want to share…”

Erin sighed. She had responsibilities now. One of which was to give Palt and his friends some information about Earth. Apparently, there were at least two dozen people from Earth in Wistram! And that had been when Palt left! It boggled Erin’s mind. Ryoka had said there was one more person from Earth she knew of in Izril, but Erin had only known Ryoka and the kids at Magnolia’s mansion. Two dozen…

“I’ll make a list, Palt. I can probably get all the plays from Celum and stuff. And tell you about…basic things.”

She’d have to think about the bad things to tell him, like, say, bombs, and what she could give away. Was this what Ryoka had been so concerned about? Erin’s head hurt. Palt was nodding eagerly, though.

“Plays would be welcome, Miss Solstice. The Elusive Lot’s heard about your friends in Celum and they want to see these plays. There are some transcripts, but the originals would be well-received. Hah, I imagine half of them would like to put together a performance?”

“Really?”

Erin blinked at Palt. He smiled and winked at her.

“I don’t know what you know of [Mages], but like I said, we are a unique faction. The Elusive Lot love entertainment. And not just vices. One of my orders was to record the Players of Celum doing some performances. The Elusive Lot probably wants to duplicate the plays across the world. That’s good money. My master is an amateur [Singer] themselves.”

The [Innkeeper] felt a bit better about that.

“I can get you some plays! Hey Lyonette—the Players—”

“Fals went through the door late last night, remember, Erin? I haven’t heard from him. If Temile doesn’t show up in two hours, I’ll get him.”

Lyonette nodded. Erin smiled.

“Great! Then—”

“You and Palt can go into the kitchen. And you can make me a cake.”

Erin’s face fell.

“Wait. But I’m so busy—”

The [Princess] walked over with a big smile on her face.

“Talking. Which you can do with Palt! And whomever else comes by! But you’re the best [Cook] since I still can’t hire Garry or anyone else—and I’d like Garry. Since you agreed with that…I’m very busy, Erin. The staff can cook, but you have the most Skills. I need cakes. One big one for a celebration.”

“Of what?”

“Of you returning. The Players are going to perform tonight, and there will be cake sold! I need one big one—make it three, actually—and, oh, two dozen smaller ones. We’ll sell them in tiny boxes with a customer’s name or a message on them. I can do the decorations.”

Erin blinked. Lyonette was definitely getting a hold of the mercantile nature of the inn. Erin wanted to protest, but Lyonette had held down the fort and built the inn while Erin was gone. Slowly, the [Innkeeper] got up.

“Maybe we don’t need Garry. I mean, I’d be okay with any [Cook].”

“I can cook. And I’d be delighted to do something with my hands while we chat, Miss Solstice.”

Palt rose to his hooves quickly, smiling at Erin. She smiled back.

“Well—I guess that’d be okay. Sure. Lyonette, do we have—”

“Fresh eggs, I just got a delivery of milk—check which one, since we have goat’s and cow’s. Oh, and we have goose eggs and chicken eggs. Sugar’s ready, flour’s good…”

Lyonette waved them off. Bemused, Erin went into the kitchen. Palt trotted in after her. It was odd, being back in the inn like this. But good at the same time.

After a while, the inn began to grow more crowded. Olesm bustled through the door after the breakfast crowd had thinned a bit. The Drake wiped water off his scales as he entered through the doors. Lyonette blinked at him.

“Olesm! Hello! Are you here for Erin?”

“Yes. Sorry about the water. It’s raining a bit in Liscor.”

“Not a problem! I’ll put some towels out in the hallway on a rack. Come in! Erin’s in the kitchen.”

“Oh! Well, if you don’t mind, I’d like to chat with her. Just about—well, about the situation. Not officially, but I’d love to catch up.”

Olesm headed for the doors. Lyonette opened her mouth, but the Drake walked into the kitchen before she could say anything. She heard a muted exclamation, a short conversation, and then Olesm walked back out.

“Er.”

“Sorry. Erin’s talking with Palt. Have you met him?”

“I believe he was arrested, yes. Zevara mentioned him.”

Olesm’s tail swished back and forth, a bit agitated. Lyonette eyed him as he glanced towards the kitchen.

“Does Erin, uh, know him well?”

“He’s a friend of the inn. Why don’t you take a seat? Erin will have time to talk to you. While she’s making cake.”

“Oh? Well, I can help…”

Olesm sat down at a table. Then he migrated over to one of the dedicated chess-tables. Bird came downstairs.

“I am punished. The other Workers will not let me sit in my tower.”

“We asked them not to. If you’d like, you may have breakfast, Bird. Not eggs or poultry.”

The Antinium drooped.

“May I have acid flies?”

“Do they have wings, Bird?”

“…I will have a fish. May I draw wings on them with ketchup?”

Lyonette gave up and nodded. Bird brightened as he saw Olesm.

“Hello, Olesm. It is me, Bird.”

He sat down at the chess table. Olesm paused in the act of setting up the board—it looked like he’d been prepared to lure Erin out with chess. A cunning [Strategist]. But he stared as Bird sat opposite him. The Antinium moved a white pawn.

“Um. Hi, Bird.”

“Let us play a game of chess.”

Olesm stared. He opened his mouth, but Bird was a member of Erin’s chess club. The Drake hesitated, and then nodded.

“Why not?”

They began playing. Lyonette, humming to herself, passed by Beza and Montressa’s table. She didn’t quite eavesdrop, but she was listening as the two talked.

“…Telling you, Palt’s doing his own thing. What’s our purpose, Montressa?”

“I know what my orders are. Look, Beza. We don’t need to stick together. I made a mess of things—I have to sit and report on the inn and Antinium. If you want to split, I understand. Ulinde’s having a great time.”

The [Aegiscaster] looked down. Bezale, the [Spellscribe] Minotaur, harrumphed. She put one arm around Montressa and squeezed gently.

“I’m not abandoning you. Besides, I have orders to sit and stare too. Let’s just make amends. And when Palt gets back, I’ll threaten to dunk him in a horse trough until he cooperates.”

Montressa smiled.

“Thanks, Beza.”

A new cast, a new inn. Lyonette thoughtfully nodded to herself. Erin was a good [Innkeeper] in her own way. She was terrible at business, unlike the Drake Peslas who ran an actual inn. But Erin was better at people, and at creating moments. With Lyonette handling the practical aspects, they made a good team. And Lyonette could be the one who appraised people without Erin’s generous trust.

Three Wistram [Mages] would have been trouble back in Calanfer. Well, these ones weren’t the worst, but Lyonette knew what trouble Wistram could cause. She’d have to manage them…at least they hadn’t begun asking questions about her red hair. Montressa must have gone to Wistram young, which was a relief.

And indeed, the new cast appeared soon after Olesm’s game. Lyonette heard voices from the hallway and hurried to the double doors. She opened them and saw, down the trapped hallway, an argument at the magical door.

“Ishkr?”

The Gnoll was staring into the magical door. Every member of Erin’s staff was trained to check each opening of the door by turning the magic dial every ten minutes. They’d open it to Liscor, Celum, Pallass, Esthelm, and, if requested, the Bloodfields, where the road was continuing to be built.

Actually, opening the Bloodfields door only happened to let adventurers or workers in and out, and Lyonette had mandated the door not be opened unless some people with combat Skills were present. Also, the Bloodfields door was now located on a hill, far from the Bloodfields. It meant more of a walk, but no one was complaining.

However, this time the dial was locked onto a glowing yellow stone. Pallass. Ishkr was staring into the portal for one main reason. Lyonette stopped too when she saw what it was.

A…portcullis. Yes, a miniature one, made of newly-forged steel, was sitting in front of the door. Not the usual streets of Pallass. Instead of opening into Pallass directly, Lyonette realized the door had been moved to some kind of chamber. There was a portcullis that seemed to lead into the streets, but between any visitor wanting to enter was the steel gate…

And eight [Guards], half of whom had bows. They were staring at Ishkr. Not aiming the bows at him, but staring.

“Two to go to Liscor! Hold! No entry to Pallass!”

One of the [Guards] called out to Lyonette as she approached. She stared at them.

“What is this?”

“Security, Miss. Just a precaution. Mandated by the Assembly of Crafts. Please step back.”

A Drake walked over to the gates and began to raise the portcullis. Lyonette stared. She knew it was a bit hypocritical to complain, since she’d insisted Belgrade make the trapped hallway for anyone wanting to attack the inn, but this felt a bit overdone on Pallass’ side.

Two figures waited as the portcullis rose. They stepped through and the [Guard] called out.

“Two to Liscor! Lower the portcullis!”

“They’ve overdone it a bit.”

Lyonette murmured as the other [Guards] shouted an affirmation and the wrought steel lowered quickly. Ishkr nodded, eying the door.

“They were not happy when I opened the door, Miss Lyonette.”

“Apologies. They’re new to the posting. They’ll relax in time, but I’m afraid the door stays.”

A brisk voice spoke from the other side. Lyonette jumped. She focused on the two visitors and realized they were waiting for her to move out of the way.

“Oh, I’m so sorry—”

Grimalkin and Chaldion stepped through the door to Liscor. Lyonette blinked. The [Grand Strategist] nodded at Lyonette.

“Good morning. We’re visiting for the day, Lady du Marquin.”

Lyonette nodded to him. Then she turned dead white and froze. The [Grand Strategist] smiled.

“Is Miss Solstice around? Magus Grimalkin and I were hoping to talk to her. I would like to play a game.”

“And I would appreciate some time of my own. I also have a few sets of weights I’d like to deliver, to Sergeant Relc among others.”

Grimalkin’s body was still bandaged up, but he was as brisk as ever. Ishkr looked at Lyonette. She was still dead-white.

“Miss Lyonette?”

“I-Ishkr, could you show Grimalkin to—the kitchen?”

Lyonette didn’t even mention Palt. She just stared at Chaldion. As Grimalkin walked past them, the [Grand Strategist] waited. His one good eye was glinting as he adjusted his eye patch. Lyonette waited until Ishkr had gone through one of the open side-doors and then breathed.

“How did you—”

The Drake’s voice was quiet as he touched a ring. Lyonette felt some spell envelop them instantly.

“Princess du Marquin. You do not hide your heritage well. And you are using your first name. I would suggest changing both hair color and name, and buying a charm that wards against a basic [Appraisal] spell if you wished to keep your identity secret. I was not interested earlier, but circumstances have changed. This inn is being investigated by every Walled City, and that is the Drakes.”

“I—I—please don’t tell my family.”

The Drake regarded Lyonette. Her chest was constricting. The [Grand Strategist] shook his head.

“Pallass does not need to meddle in Terandrian affairs, Miss Lyonette. Your secret is safe…with me. But I would take precautions.”

“Yes! Absolutely.”

“Now, if you’ll excuse me…is Miss Solstice available?”

“She’s talking and there is a queue—”

“Of course there is. I will be content with a drink. And something to eat.”

“Absolutely!”

Lyonette rushed after Chaldion, heart pounding. What was she going to do? Change her name? Hair dye? Oh, dead gods—if Chaldion had found out, how long until…?

Chaldion found Olesm and Bird at the chess tables with a few of Liscor’s new board game aficionados. The Drake had thrown his hands up and the [Grand Strategist] made a beeline towards the game.

“How? How does this happen?”

“I am in checkmate, Olesm. That was a good game.”

Olesm stared at Bird. He didn’t look happy about his victory. Lyonette didn’t get why everyone was murmuring. Even Chaldion looked impressed as he stared sharply at Bird.

It took Lyonette a moment to figure out what had gone on. Then she realized that the finished chess game looked a bit like a bird, with black and white pieces maneuvered into place during the course of the game. Bird looked pleased. Then he glanced up.

“Oh. Hello. We have met.”

“Yes we have.”

Chaldion stared at Bird. Lyonette caught her breath, but the [Grand Strategist] just looked at the board. Olesm went pale under his scales.

“Grand Strategist! Sir—”

He scrambled to his feet. Chaldion nodded to him.

“Olesm Swifttail of Liscor? Good day. And you are Bird the Hunter.”

“I am Bird. Am I in more trouble?”

The [Grand Strategist] narrowed his eyes.

“No. Tell me, Bird. Do you like chess?”

“It is fun.”

“Let’s play a game.”

The old Drake walked over to the chess board. Bird obediently reset the pieces. Olesm looked at Lyonette; she was about equally flabbergasted at the moment. Chaldion sat down and inspected a white piece. He moved it, and his one eye glittered as he looked at Bird.

“So, are you a Prognugator of the Free Antinium…Bird?”

“No, that was a lie.”

Bird moved a piece, as innocent as could be. Chaldion nodded to himself. He eyed Bird and grinned to himself in a way that would have made Klbkch’s cold blood run colder if he’d been there.

“Let’s talk about your Hive.”

It was a busy day. And Lyonette heard a voice from the kitchen. She peeked inside to see Grimalkin and Palt regarding each other as Erin threw up her hands.

“Either help me make cakes or get out!”

It was the beginning of a busy day. But the silly thing hadn’t happened yet. Lyonette went over to sit at a table for a second. Her head was spinning. She only looked up when she had a thought that trumped all others. Erin, secrets of the Antinium, her exposed identity—

“Mrsha.”

She stood up and checked the window. Nearly time! She hurried over to a place where she had some parchment and ink and a quill.

“It’s nearly time for her to come back. Krshia has the Council meeting…Apista!”

Lyonette scrawled quickly, drafting a message. At her voice, an Ashfire Bee floated lazily across the inn. Apista landed on the little podium Lyonette was writing on. The [Princess] tied the parchment up with a bit of twine, and put a loop of the twine over one of Apista’s legs.

“Take this to Mrsha. Understand? Mrsha.”

The Ashfire Bee didn’t nod, but Lyonette sensed its acceptance. She opened a window and it flew out. Lyonette didn’t see half of the inn staring at her. That was normal compared to everything else. The [Princess] sighed as she checked the door to Liscor.

“Come on, Temile.”

Maybe the Players of Celum had wigs she could borrow.



—-



A bee flew across Liscor. Her name was Apista, and she was a recovering Faerie Flower addict. Ever since Lyonette had put the faerie flowers in her room, Apista hadn’t indulged herself every waking moment on the powerful nectar.

She was detoxing on regular flowers Lyonette had put around the windowsills in the planter-boxes. The [Princess] had even made a few boxes to hold mint, and other seasonings. Free money was free, and they added a pleasant scent. Apista, who now dined on those flowers, was a changed bee. She’d seen the error of her ways. But she dreamed of faerie flower nectar.

The bee flew through the air, towards the city just a little bit away. The air was clean and good, and no birds flew around the inn to threaten her. She flew, and thought deep thoughts. For a bee.

She was a bee, and she was as free as could be. Although for a bee living in an inn, that wasn’t very free. But it was good. Better than the other bees.

They were not free.

Apista buzzed, turning and flying about through the air. She could feel them, the other bees, calling out to her. But the bees were sealed in a very dark place. Without much room or light or space. They lived, on honey and things in the cave. For now. But they would die in time.

And there were dark things in the cracks in the stone of the cave. Air, and thus life, yes. But more. And they climbed up, time again and again. Driven back by fury and wings and stings, the knaves. But not forever.

The bee named Apista wished the others could be saved. But she flew on, because she was alone and their prison was made of stone. Apista could do nothing. Instead, she flew, to call the white thing she loved to the inn.

Back home.



—-



Mrsha the Studious sat in Krshia’s apartment and learned magic. A magical tome sat in front of her, a book that was the font of an entire civilization’s worth of knowledge. For beginners. Well, that was how a Dragon thought of it.

For anyone else, it was an artifact beyond compare. Palt, Montressa, and Beza, who were focused on Erin like a magical laser thanks to Wistram, would have probably given up the door, Erin, and someone else’s kidneys for the magical book Mrsha was reading. But they had no idea it even existed.

That was life. And a little white Gnoll was reading spells written in the language of magic—well, one interpretation of it—that the Wistram graduates had never dreamed of. Mrsha the Magically Gifted stared at the book.

Then she rolled over and yawned. She rested her little head on the huge book, which was about as big as she was. She vaguely waved a paw as she decided to curl up.

“Mrsha, are you studying?”

A voice interrupted the little Gnoll cub’s nap. Krshia stared down at Mrsha, looking severe. Mrsha slowly sat up and made an unhappy sound in her throat. Krshia, [Royal Shopkeeper], and [Politician] by way of her new status as Councilmember of Liscor, stared at the white Gnoll. Then she turned to Elirr.

“What do you think is wrong?”

The other Councilmember and [Beast Trainer] looked up. Elirr was reading a book. Absently, the Gnoll put a furry finger in place and closed the book. He looked at Mrsha. She dejectedly slumped over the book.

“I think Mrsha is done for the moment, Krshia. Yes?”

“But she has barely started, Elirr. Surely—”

“She has the look of a cat, I say. One that will not be learning any new tricks. And she has been studying every time she comes over, Krshia. Let us let Mrsha play.”

The white Gnoll sat up instantly, wagging her tail. Krshia hesitated. She looked at Mrsha, sighed, and growled.

“I suppose. But—”

Mrsha leapt from the table, overjoyed. She hugged Krshia’s leg. The Gnoll [Shopkeeper] waggled one finger.

“But Mrsha, you must try to learn a spell, understand? It is important. At least a Tier 3! Within the next two weeks? Please?”

Mrsha’s face fell. Krshia looked at her and the Gnoll cub nodded reluctantly, avoiding Krshia’s eyes. At that moment, all three Gnolls heard a tap from the window. Mrsha looked up and saw a bee buzzing around the glass. Krshia blinked at it.

“Ah, Apista. She has a message?”

She opened the window. Apista buzzed on in and promptly landed on Mrsha’s head. The Gnoll grabbed the bee and gently held her. Krshia retrieved the message from the string.



Dear Mrsha:

Please come to the inn in one hour. Erin is baking a cake for tonight. Yours truly,

–Lyonette



“Ah, Lyonette wishes to have Mrsha back in an hour. Well, I suppose there is time to let her play. But if she…well, I will go see if there is anyone. Wait here, Mrsha. Elirr, will you send a message back?”

She sighed, and went for the door. Elirr nodded and found something to write on the other side of the parchment with. While he did, Mrsha rubbed her nose gently against Apista’s side. Then she paused.

She felt sad. But then Mrsha realized she didn’t feel sad. It was Apista! The little bee felt…Mrsha stared at her, inquisitively. Something was wrong. Apista felt sad. Because…? Something was wrong. But what?

The little bee stared at Mrsha, her tiny antennae waving. Mrsha, curious, sat down by the magical tome. What is wrong? She felt Apista was trying to tell her something. As if the bee sensed Mrsha could listen. The white Gnoll cub got a flash of something.

Darkness. Stone. Little air. Things crawling up from below. Stab! Stab for the queen! Running out of honey. Dead things—don’t want to eat. Need air. Need the sky! Need—

“Mrsha. Ekirra will come over in ten minutes. Let Apista go, yes? And if you can, read the spellbook before we must put it away.”

Krshia interrupted Mrsha. The Gnoll blinked, and Apista’s wings buzzed as she flew up to accept the message. The moment was gone. Mrsha looked at Krshia. The [Shopkeeper] pointed at the magical tome. Mrsha slowly, reluctantly, trudged over to the book and stared at the spell she was trying to memorize.

And mistakes had been made. Not silly mistakes. This was more of a stupid mistake, but one that had happened naturally. It was no one’s fault. It was just that Krshia, Elirr, and to some extent, Mrsha, had made mistakes.

It was now custom for Mrsha to be allowed to visit ‘Aunt Krshia’, or ‘Aunt Selys’ in the city. ‘Uncle Relc’ was on the blacklist, but Mrsha would spend a few hours or even parts of the day with people since the inn wasn’t large enough for a growing Gnoll child. Each one had their specialty.

Uncle Relc was a last resort and usually taught Mrsha how to hit things, or lessons about things she really shouldn’t learn…ever, according to Lyonette. Aunt Selys was very nice, but she spoiled Mrsha by buying her whatever the little Gnoll wanted.

And Aunt Krshia—well, she had many good qualities. And Elirr, who was no uncle, but a very good friend, was just as good. They taught Mrsha things about Gnolls, and they let her run about, do Gnoll things that Lyonette and Erin didn’t understand.

But they also had the magical tome Ryoka had given them. And Krshia insisted Mrsha try to learn as much as possible before…well, she hadn’t told Mrsha why, just that it was very important.

And that was her mistake. Mrsha spent at least an hour each visit looking at the valuable tome. Reading spells, trying to learn new ones. And—she had failed.

She knew 6 spells now. Six spells, all related to plants or the earth. She had learned no more, after weeks of studying. Krshia and Elirr didn’t understand it. Mrsha had actually learned a seventh spell—and in the process forgotten one of the other six she’d learned. She could not memorize above Tier 2 spells at best, and sometimes she got nosebleeds or bad headaches or just lost interest.

Mistakes.

The reason for Mrsha’s slump was simple, as any [Mage] could have told the Gnolls, from Moore to Falene to Ceria or Palt. And it was simple:

Mrsha was a child. She was also not a [Mage].

Mrsha was a [Druid]. She’d gained the class after the battle with the Defenders of the Cave. She was a [Druid], not a [Mage]. Krshia and Elirr did not know this, so it wasn’t their fault entirely. Only Mrsha’s family knew she was a [Druid]. No one else needed to know, not even the Gnolls, who’d kept their magical book secret from Mrsha’s family in turn.

But a [Druid] was not a [Mage], as Pisces would have happily explained with a few sniffs. He’d sniff, and inform any uneducated soul that a [Druid] was as close to a [Beast Tamer] and [Gardener] as a [Mage]. They drew power from nature, shaped and worked with it. That was not, to be sufficiently precise, the same as a [Green Mage].

Oh no. [Green Mages] were simply a specialization in the magic they used, which was earth magic. But [Druids] were different. Their power and abilities stemmed from nature. They were not the same as studious [Mages], who studied spells.

That was problem one. Problem two was simpler. And it was really something the Gnolls should have known.

Mrsha was a child. She was young. She had the attention span and cognitive abilities of a child. Even if she was old for her age, matured because of what she had seen and done, she was still a child. If Krshia had thought about it, she would have realized her errors.

Pisces, a [Mage] who had been considered a genius when he was a student, had taken over a month to memorize one Tier 4 spell in Wistram. He and Ceria had Skills that allowed them to remember the complex spells, the way magic moved and formed, had the training and experience to understand foreign concepts, how to move magic, which most people couldn’t even sense.

Mrsha had none of their advantages. She couldn’t even really cast magic without the little wand. She tried to memorize magic, but she struggled even to remember all the spells crammed into her head.

And one last thing. It was true magic was wonderful. It was true Mrsha would like to cast a Tier 5 spell, if the book had held one, and if she had the mana to cast it without dying. But the little Gnoll had grown used to having to study the book every time she came to Krshia’s apartment. It wasn’t her secret anymore, it was work.

And, as most good [Teachers] knew and accounted for, if you had to do something, it stopped being fun very quickly.

All of this led to this moment, as Mrsha glumly studied a spell that looked like it was meant to allow the user to meld with the ground, in this case, dirt, but in theory, stone or even other substances. But it made her head hurt and she didn’t want to learn. She gave up after a few minutes and just pretended to study.

“Alright, that is enough. Good job, Mrsha. Let us put the book away.”

Krshia sighed after six minutes had passed. She hid the book and Mrsha brightened up. Krshia patted Mrsha on the head. The little Gnoll smiled. She did like Krshia. She just…didn’t like studying the book that hurt her brain.

Elirr let Mrsha jump onto the couch as Krshia hid the book. The [Beast Tamer] smiled at Mrsha.

“You hard worker, you. Next time you visit, you should visit my shop, yes? The cats seem to like you. And the dogs. And everything else. You can see the baby Wyvern I’m supposed to be raising.”

Inside her bedroom, Krshia nearly dropped the spellbook she was putting into the secret vault. In doing so, she nearly set off three spells that would have done horrible, horrible things to her. She emerged from her bedroom.

“The what? Elirr, you did not say!”

The [Beast Trainer] looked very pleased with himself as Mrsha shook his arm, wide-eyed, communicating the same thing nonverbally. He stroked the fur along his chin.

“I did not? Well, I have Council duties, but I accepted the request. One of the Frost Wyverns—it was killed, yes? The army was collecting bodies, and found a young Wyvern who had returned to its parent. It had not been killed; it hid under the wing and they captured it rather than slew it. It was a miracle, so Pallass, they sent out for a good [Beast Trainer]. I am not the highest-level, but I have trained a Wyvern before.”

“When?”

The older Gnoll grinned abashedly.

“In my youth. It was a challenge, but it was older than a newly-hatched one. This one—it is very dangerous, since it is a rare hybrid, but I will take up the challenge.”

“There is no way you will have time to do that and sit the Council meetings.”

Krshia protested. Elirr shrugged.

“I do not have to do it long. My job—and what I am good at—is to get the Wyvern used to people. I will do so for a while, and when it is able to handle others, I will transfer it to a trainer who knows how to prepare animals for war. It will be a challenge, but…would you like to see it?”

The [Beast Trainer] met Krshia’s eyes.

“It is very safe, Krshia. It will have a muzzle for a while, and it cannot spit frost yet. It is a frightened thing, and I will try to make it welcome and feel safe. I will have to prepare my shop for it as well.”

He grinned. Mrsha was nodding. Krshia looked dubious. Then she nodded. She winked at Mrsha.

“So long as Lyonette does not find out, no?”

The Gnoll cub grinned. Then she heard a knock at the door. Mrsha sniffed the air and leapt off the couch. The other two Gnolls sniffed and grinned.

“Jeva! Come in! And little Ekirra too, I see.”

Krshia opened the door. Mrsha saw a taller Gnoll with dark fur—before a blur of dusk-red shot into the room.

“Mrsha! Mrshamrshamrshamrsha—”

A Gnoll cub, a bit smaller than Mrsha, leapt towards Mrsha. She dodged and Ekirra landed. They raced about the couch as Elirr closed his book and got up to greet Jeva. The Gnoll mother called for Ekirra to stop, but he was too excited.

The two Gnoll cubs stopped. Both were running on all fours, and Mrsha grinned at Ekirra. He grinned back and the two sniffed each other. He had red fur, and a black splotch across one eye. He was around Mrsha’s age. But he could talk. And he did.

“Mother! I want to play with Mrsha, yes? Yes!? Can we go to the park? I have a new ball, Mrsha!”

He raced back to Jeva and reappeared with a ball. Mrsha raced over and the adults laughed, Jeva apologized.

“I’m sorry, but he’s been cooped up in the apartment all morning. He just got his ball—”

“Not at all. Mrsha is always delighted to see him. But we should take this outside, yes? Before a little Gnoll knocks over everything in my apartment!”

Krshia raised her voice warningly and the two Gnolls paused. They raced out the door, down the steps, and into the street. Ekirra grinned.

“Let’s go to the park!”

“Walk on two feet!”

Jeva shouted as the adults more sedately went down the street. Mrsha and Ekirra groaned. They stood upright, grumbling. They walked down the street as the adults followed. Little Gnolls living in Krshia’s block ran to the windows, smelling Ekirra or Mrsha. And the two Gnolls were, for a moment, just more children in Liscor. And that made Mrsha happy. She walked with Ekirra as he showed her his new ball, talking rapidly.

“It was my birthday, so I asked and I got this ball! It was in the shop. I bought it and it bounces and it lights up in the dark! I want to show you! Mrsha! You smell like bees! Is Apista here? Can I pet her?”

Mrsha signed back as Ekirra babbled. He’d picked up on some of her paw-words as Erin had dubbed them, but Mrsha was still less chatty than Ekirra by nature. He was bubbly, talkative, and her first friend her age in Liscor. He was also younger than Mrsha, despite being actually a few months older than she was.

Adolescence was a funny thing. The young of each species grew differently, and with quirks that surprised those not of the species. For instance, Centaurs notably had children who could walk within an hour of being born, like horses. They took a long time to develop enough to speak, but Centaur children had a definite edge up on other species.

Where they lost was that Centaurs had one of the longest pregnancies of any species, except for like, whales. And Dullahans. In exchange for magical abilities, or functionality at birth, some species paid a price.

For instance, Lizardfolk children were close to feral, hungry things, when they came out of eggs. Tiny, and primitive. Left unchecked, they would do what other reptiles did and fight each other to the death.

Garuda chicks were flightless and helpless for a long time compared to other species. Human babies died if you dropped them too many times. And they basically wriggled around and wailed.

But, among others, Gnoll children were different. The Gnoll species was nomadic by and large and their children were able to run about on all fours very quickly. They developed muscle fast, and if they kept to their four-legged run for longer than they needed to, well, it was because their bone structure would eventually shift to encourage standing on two legs.

It was a painful process, known as the ‘shifting year’ to Gnolls. But each species had its flaws. Humans got pimples. Drake children went through a hoarding phase. Dullahans had to keep changing their armor. And so on.

Gnolls grew up fast, but like Humans, female Gnolls hit their puberty a bit before males. Ekirra was about Mrsha’s age, but he was sillier. A City Gnoll as well. Mrsha still liked him a lot.

“Let’s play, Mrsha! Let’s play. Catch!”

He had his new ball, made of soft leather and painted with bright silver on darker black. The silver paint shone when he threw it, and it even glowed in the dark thanks to an alchemical compound applied to it. Ekirra was happy as could be with it and Mrsha was jealous. But the other Gnoll let Mrsha inspect his ball and they began to toss it back and forth.

Ekirra raced around Mrsha, careless and free, and she grinned. Ekirra didn’t care or know what the adults said about the white Gnoll cub and his mother was a niece-sister of Elirr. He’d been introduced over Erin’s holiday, when Mrsha had been forced to live in Krshia’s apartment. Now, she met with him at least three times a week.

Not just him either. As the two Gnolls hurried towards the park, the adults calling on them to slow down because they were slow and old, Mrsha and Ekirra both sniffed the air. Ekirra bounded forwards.

“Visma!”

A Drake mother and her daughter turned. Visma, nibbling her thumb-claw in her mouth, turned as her mother, Selena, spotted Ekirra barreling towards them. He slowed down and Mrsha ran over on two legs.

Visma! Mrsha waved and Ekirra raced around the Drake with pearly-white scales speckled with greens to show her his new ball. Selena, a [Painter], smiled.

“Hello, Ekirra. And Mrsha too? Visma was just going to the park.”

“The park! Let’s all go together! There are Humans there now! Human children!”

Ekirra nearly went mad with excitement. Selena laughed and waved at Krshia and Elirr and Jeva. The adults made a group and Krshia greeted Selena.

“Ah, what timing, Selena. Are you going to the park too?”

“Yes, as a matter of fact. I was walking Visma over—I hear there are Human children playing there, and I wanted to watch her for a bit. I hear there were a few incidents—”

“Children fighting.”

“They copy the adults. The Humans immigrating to Liscor—”

Mrsha ignored the grown-ups. She waved at Visma.

“Hullo.”

The Drake shyly greeted Mrsha. She was a friend too, but more timid than Ekirra. Visma was shy and liked copying her mother by making sculptures out of mud or things she found. Then again—anyone was shy compared to Ekirra.

She and Mrsha had become friends when Visma asked to paint Mrsha because she had such lovely fur, like a canvas. Normally she and Mrsha would quietly talk, but Visma seemed restless today. She stared at Ekirra.

“What’s that?”

“It’s my ball. Isn’t it wonderful?”

Ekirra showed it to Visma proudly. The Drake stared at the ball as Mrsha, signing, tried to ask her ‘how are you today?’ But Visma just stared at Ekirra’s ball.

Then she grabbed it. Visma yanked the ball out of Ekirra’s paws. She hugged it in her arms.

“Mine.”

Ekirra was so shocked he just stared for a moment. Then he tried to grab the ball back.

“It’s mine! Give it back!”

Visma turned around. Ekirra raced around her furiously. The adults didn’t notice at first, debating about Humans and when Gnolls had entered the city first. Visma glared at Ekirra.

“Mine now. Mine!”

“No! Give it back! Or else!”

Ekirra was getting angry. Visma refused to give the ball. He tried to grab it, but she had it in a death-hold. She hissed at him.

Ekirra stopped. He stood on two feet, raised a paw and made it into a fist. Mrsha, anxious, ran over to separate the two. She clumsily stood up, putting two paws out.

Don’t fight! Don’t fight!

Anxiously, she looked at her two friends. What was wrong with Visma? The little Drake girl glared at Mrsha, then looked at Ekirra. His fur was standing up.

“Give me my ball, Visma!”

“No!”

Visma punched Ekirra in the nose. He fell onto his behind. All the adults looked down in shock.

“Visma!”

Selena shouted at her daughter. The little Drake looked up, realized she was in trouble, and fled. Visma ran off with the leather ball. Mrsha was so shocked she just stared.

The Gnoll boy, sitting on the ground, staring in shock. His nose wasn’t bleeding or anything, but the blow and Visma racing off had stunned him. He looked around as Visma rounded a corner. Her mother ran after her, shouting. Ekirra looked ahead, looked at Mrsha, and then his mother.

He began to howl. Jeva bent down and grabbed her son. She nuzzled him.

“Shh. Shh, Ekirra! It’s not bad. How is your nose? Shh.”

Windows flew open as Gnolls stared out to hear who was howling. Gnoll howls were important. Plus, a single crying child could wake up an entire neighborhood of sensitive Gnoll ears. They grumbled when they saw only Ekirra. Elirr and Krshia called up, reassuring them.

“I am so sorry. She’s into her hoarding year and—where has she gone? Visma! Visma!”

Selena ran back to them, apologizing profusely. Mrsha ran after Selena as the other Gnolls hurried forwards. But Visma had run left down another street and she was gone.

“Hoarding?”

“Yes—she’s grabbed everything at home—I am so sorry, Ekirra. Let me buy you a treat. We’ll find Visma—where did she run off to? She’s probably hiding. I’m so sorry, could I trouble you to help me find her?”

Selena was upset, rather than worried. And the Gnolls, all of them, nodded. Ekirra stopped wailing as his mother put him down.

“Stop crying, Ekirra. Miss Selena will buy you a treat. Let’s find Visma, okay?”

Mrsha was already sniffing Ekirra and the ground. Elirr nodded.

“Mrsha has her scent. Let’s go find her.”

“Yes.”

Wiping his nose, Ekirra looked at Mrsha. She pointed and they ran forwards. The adults loped after them.

“Not too fast, Mrsha! Mrsha!”

The Plains Gnoll didn’t listen to the others. This felt like home! She raced down the street. Liscor had few horses because the Floodplains were so up and down and this wasn’t a street that allowed wagons. She raced past pedestrians, shot left down a street—Ekirra ran with her. Mrsha felt alive. This was primal, that spoke to their ancestral roots. Mrsha turned another corner, raced down a street—

And stopped. Ekirra skidded to a halt next to her. The adults, panting, caught up a few seconds later. Selena was worried, gasping for breath.

“What if she fell into the sewers?”

“They’re very clean these days. They were cleared out and I haven’t had a blockage in—”

Elirr paused in reassuring her. He stared too.

Visma was standing in the street. She had Ekirra’s ball in her claws, but she hadn’t run any further. She was staring. Staring up at someone she must have run into.

A huge Gnoll with scars instead of fur across her body. She was big. As burly as—Mrsha’s heart stopped for a second—

A Raskghar.

But she wasn’t one. She was just a Gnoll. Mrsha breathed. Then she took in the Gnoll a second time. The Gnoll was bent, inspecting Visma. She had a nasty look. A nasty smell.

Like old blood. She was walking with two other Gnolls and a Drake. All of them looked…bad. Like Gnolls that the Stone Spears Tribe had to watch out for. Wanderers. The kind Urksh had told Mrsha not to go near.

She smelled like that. The two Gnoll cubs stared as the huge Gnoll woman looked at them. She noticed the adults.

“Ah. So this is the child’s parent. Ran into us she did. Run along, little girl.”

The Gnoll’s voice was low. Almost pleasant, but it had a rolling quality. And she even sounded dangerous. Mrsha saw Visma turn.

“I am so sorry. Visma, come here!”

Selena, breathless, opened her arms. Visma fled.

“Ekirra, Mrsha, you too.”

Jeva called out, frightened. She was more worried than Selena. It was one thing if someone looked like they were a bit nasty. But Gnolls could smell it. This Gnoll—Mrsha saw Ekirra run backwards.

Krshia and Elirr stared at the female Gnoll. She was eying Mrsha, having spotted the white fur. The two Gnolls next to her reacted as they saw that Mrsha was completely white.

“A Doomed One?”

The first Gnoll leapt back. The second flattened her ears. Without looking at the two, the huge Gnoll swung a paw.

“Shut up. I heard there was one in this city. You must be Mrsha. Is that your friend?”

She bent low, grinning. Mrsha saw a huge face and held her ground. Whoever this was, she wasn’t worse than Nokha. She nodded slowly. The Gnoll woman grinned.

“It’s so nice to meet you, little Mrsha. They call me Bearclaw.”

She sniffed once. Mrsha’s hair rose. Bearclaw wasn’t a Gnoll name.

“Apologies for the little one. It is good to meet you, Miss Bearclaw. Are you new to Liscor?”

Krshia’s voice was strained. Her fur was standing up a bit. So was Elirr’s. The two Gnolls motioned and Krshia backed up. Bearclaw inhaled again. Her eyes flicked from Mrsha to Krshia. She stared at the Gnoll and then grinned.

“Honored Krshia, yes? I’ve heard about you.”

“Really? I am delighted. But I do not know you, sadly. Are you from the tribes?”

Krshia bared her teeth in a not-grin. Bearclaw’s smile widened.

“I was. I came to Liscor for business. Are you this Gnoll’s caretaker? I heard she had another.”

“Bearclaw, she’s white. Soot didn’t say anything about—”

Mrsha slunk behind Elirr as one of the Gnolls, who was nearly all-brown save for some tufts of silver around his ears, whispered in Bearclaw’s ear. The Gnoll cuffed him. Hard.

“Shut. Up. That’s just superstition.”

“We should be going. Apologies for bothering you.”

Elirr nodded to the other parents. They turned—and Bearclaw walked forwards.

“Why so soon? I haven’t met another Plains Gnoll worth talking to in a long time. Let’s talk. You can tell me what one of the white-furs is doing around here. I knew a few over the years.”

She looked at Mrsha and the little Gnoll looked up. Bearclaw smiled, but Elirr and Krshia did not.

“I think not. The children have to be at the park.”

There was always a [Guard] there. Mainly to watch out for accidents, although the parks had a lot of safety magic. But there was always a member of the Watch there. Mrsha remember that all of a sudden. Bearclaw tilted her head.

“Am I bothering you?”

Whatever Elirr or Krshia said next might have gone a lot of ways. The two Gnolls and the Drake were staring at Mrsha and Bearclaw. She smelled like danger, and Mrsha’s little nose told her that Bearclaw had steel in either pocket of her vest. She wore leather, incidentally. And both leather and steel smelled of that old blood.

It could have gone a number of ways. But it didn’t, because at that moment someone clicked.

“Excuse me. I believe Councilmember Krshia and Elirr have pressing business. As do you all. Kindly move along.”

Bearclaw turned. Her smile vanished. Mrsha turned and inhaled a familiar, reassuring scent.

Klbkch and Relc stood in the street. Relc, grinning, counted. The Drake [Guardsman] stared at Bearclaw and grinned, much like she had.

“So you’re Bearclaw. Hi. Klb told me all about you.”

The adults relaxed. And it was the possible [Thug]’s turn to stiffen as Liscor’s infamous Senior Guardsman pair strolled down the street. Bearclaw instantly swung around, putting both paws in her vest pockets.

“Hello, Guardsmen. What seems to be the matter?”

“You may move along. Now.”

Klbkch’s voice was flat. Bearclaw blinked. Normally, there was usually some byplay of ‘what have we done?’ Or something. But Klbkch seemed to have missed a line.

“We were just—”

“You will walk away. Now.”

Klbkch looked at Bearclaw. Her hackles rose.

“Is that an order?”

“I am in a bad mood. I would appreciate it if you refused to move along.”

Klbkch stared at her. The other Gnolls and Drakes stared at Klbkch warily. Bearclaw eyed the Antinium, his two swords, then Relc. She snarled, and spun.

“Let’s go.”

They walked off. Relc whistled. He called out after Bearclaw.

“Klbkch, my man—he has no calm! Normally I’m the bad guy. We’ll see you again, Miss! Tell Soot we said hi!”

She didn’t reply. Krshia and the others relaxed as a Klbkch marched up to them. The Antinium looked at Mrsha, and then crisply saluted Krshia.

“Apologies, Councilmember. We delayed stepping in, hoping that Bearclaw would reveal something. You were never in any danger.”

“You are monitoring her, Guardsman Klbkch?”

Shaken, Krshia looked at Klbkch and Relc. The two nodded. Relc waved at Mrsha and she waved back. Klbkch nodded, his gaze following the way Bearclaw had gone.

“Relc, follow them. I will catch up. Of course, Councilwoman Krshia. Watch Captain Zevara is investigating whatever she and her associates are up to. But we have no proof. And Bearclaw was able to testify under truth spell that she had not committed a crime…in Liscor.”

Relc jogged after Bearclaw. Elirr blinked.

“No murders?”

“She had committed. Yes. I must follow my partner, but I apologize for the delay. Bearclaw is, for the moment, a private citizen. Please lodge any complaints at the Watch House for Senior Guardsman Klbkch—”

Mrsha watched as Klbkch hurried off, following Relc. She stared at Ekirra and Visma. Their parents watched as Elirr and Krshia came over, and then they all gathered together in an anxious knot.

“Who was that, Krshia? I saw Jeva’s fur standing all up on end!”

“She called herself Bearclaw. I think she’s a criminal. From another city. Or the wilds, perhaps.”

Krshia murmured. Elirr was nodding. Both looked tense after meeting Bearclaw. Mrsha saw Ekirra sidle over. He leaned against Mrsha, looking frightened. She patted him on the head.

“We shouldn’t allow such people in. Krshia, you should get the Council to amend the law about allowing in…visitors like that! Why was she let in to begin with?”

Jeva was speaking loudly, and anxiously. Krshia just shook her head.

“If their sentence is not murder, or something equally guilty, they are allowed into the city. That is the law. This Bearclaw, though—I think she would have proven cases of self-defense…or been present at murders someone else committed. Technicalities like that exist. I will ask Watch Captain Zevara to investigate, but we need not change the law. There are cases—”

“We should! She looked ready to attack Visma!”

“She wouldn’t have. And it was just a lesson for Visma not to run about, eh?”

Elirr murmured. But Selena was more and more upset as she realized who Bearclaw was.

“You have to do something, Elirr! That Gnoll woman—a murderer? And she was just walking down the street with those other [Thugs]! Change the law! If you won’t, maybe Councilmember Lism—”

“Selena!”

Elirr’s voice was hurt. The Drake paused.

“I’m sorry. I’m just trying to look out for—”

“Bearclaw is one Gnoll. We must trust the Watch. Senior Guardsman Klbkch was right there. Surely—”

The adults began to argue politics. Adult things. Mrsha, Ekirra, and Visma all looked at each other, dismayed. The visit to the park might be off. It was already eating into Mrsha’s hour before she had to go back. Ekirra looked at Mrsha, and then at Visma.

The little Drake was pale-faced. She looked at the ball she’d stolen, and then slowly, held it out to Ekirra.

“Sorry I took your ball.”

She shyly mumbled an apology. Ekirra licked her cheek. And that was that. Mrsha hugged her friends and they went to play. Then, Mrsha went back to the inn, and her two friends came with her. Elirr had promised to drop both off at their homes.

He did not tell Lyonette about Bearclaw, and Mrsha’s tail wagged and wagged, almost as hard as Ekirra’s as Lyonette greeted them.

“Thank you, Elirr. And is this Ekirra and Visma? Hello! Will you be staying?”

“No, we have to go home. This is my ball!”

Ekirra announced loudly. Visma shyly waved at Lyonette. The [Princess] smiled.

“Well, ask your parents if you can come by tonight. There’s going to be the Players of Celum. And cake.”

Both little Drake and Gnoll grew excited. Mrsha ran around Elirr and he sighed as he bade Mrsha farewell. The little Gnoll signed to Lyonette that she’d had a big day! But the [Princess] was very busy.

She put Mrsha down after a hug and the Gnoll sighed. Krshia and Elirr had to go to the Council, Drassi was off work today, and Selys was busy. So was Relc. So no one could watch over her, even Ishkr. But that was okay. She was going to get cake!

The silly thing had still not yet occurred, by the by.



—-



“The Wandering Inn is back open!”

Fals, the City Runner, had had a good night’s rest in The Drunken Swordsman, one of Celum’s inns. He settled his bill, jogged to the Runner’s Guild, and delivered the good news.

The [Receptionist] at the desk pulled a face. Fals paused. He knew all the local staff, and he was on familiar terms with Esi.

“What’s wrong, Esi?”

“I’m sorry, Fals. I know it’s good news for you, since you don’t have to run back. But—honestly, the Guildmaster is not going to be happy about it. Neither should you, really.”

“Why’s that?”

The City Runner was mystified. Esi leaned over the desk, grimacing.

“Well—you delivered your package, right?”

“Yup. Long run, but the door cut me all the time going back.”

“Right, but you got paid for the run. Even though there’s a magic door that could’ve done all the work for you. It wasn’t working until now, which is why you got the delivery. We ran tons of deliveries south to Liscor. Fat chance of anyone getting work now.”

Fals blinked at the young woman.

“But—I just used the door to come back. I did the entire run myself, none of Erin’s door. That’s her deal, remember? No using the magic door to deliver messages?”

Esi laughed.

“Oh, Fals! You think anyone actually does that? I’ve seen more Drakes last month than I have in my entire life! All who want to post letters of packages going north! Guess where they came from.”

Fals’ jaw dropped.

“Wait. I didn’t hear about this!”

But it made sense. He hadn’t gotten any contracts to run south to Liscor in a long while, or even Esthelm. Esi shook her head.

“I bet Liscor’s Runner’s Guild is just as steamed. And Esthelm’s! Normally, they go through Esthelm. Waypoints north. But ever since that damn door appeared—that’s a hundred mile route gone! And it’s costing Celum’s Guild and the runners money!”

She looked meaningfully around. Fals glanced about and realized there were less City Runners in this guild than there usually were. He straightened.

“I’m sure Erin doesn’t have any part of this, Esi. I can talk to her—”

“Who, the [Innkeeper]? What’s she going to do? Charge a fee for people using the door?”

Esi laughed and shook her head.

“Face it, Fals. It’s just less business. We do get outbound deliveries, so that’s something. But it’s just—not great. Sorry, I shouldn’t be griping to you—”

“Hey. It’s not your fault.”

Fals leaned over and gripped Esi’s hand. He smiled and she smiled back. The City Runner looked around.

“I’ll tell Erin, maybe see if something can be done. But the inn is back, and Liscor’s a fine city to go to. One step and you can be there, Esi. That’s something.”

“Yeah.”

She smiled a bit, but her smile faded as she looked for the Guildmaster’s office. Fals sighed.

It was strange. Everyone else he told the news to that day perked up.

“The inn’s back? I’ve been wanting some of those cookies! Promised my girl—she’s coming from Ocre—that I’d give her a bag. Damned expensive, though.”

A [Shoemaker] that Fals knew grinned as Fals passed by. The City Runner told a [Trader] and she brightened as he haggled for a spyglass. It was cheap, and, Fals discovered, made of glass instead of metal!

“This is so affordable. How’d you get it?”

“From Pallass, of course! I was one of the few people who signed up on that list they have. Walked through, did some trading—Pallass makes these. And even cheaply, I can make double the profit going north. You say the inn’s open? I’ll be there tonight! A few drinks—that Gnoll [Bartender] is a genius—and a play before I head north!”

“I think there’ll even be a door going to Invrisil.”

The [Trader]’s eyes widened as Fals paid for the spyglass. He almost thought about going to Pallass to get it cheaper—but Erin had told them it would be complicated after the Wyvern-Bird fiasco. She put her hands on her hips.

“Imagine that! Dead gods, I might just stick around, then! If I could jump all the way there I’d beat my competition without having to walk a mile! And the new trade route!”

Not to mention the savings in sending packages. Fals paused, and his smile slipped as he put away the spyglass. What would that do for Runners? So many parcels got sent north and south. The Runner’s Guilds all the way to Invrisil would lose money! No—all the guilds would lose money because you’d have to charge less if the route was that much shorter.

He began to see Esi’s point. Fals thanked the [Trader] and hurried away, thinking deeply.

Fals was, in his own admission, an ordinary fellow. A good City Runner, and he liked to think he was the best around Celum. Around Celum, though, and that was precarious now. Fals had been humbled by Ryoka. Persua had been a poke in the eye; she’d gotten lucky, not deserved her new Skill. And now Garia was running faster and faster these days.

Sometimes, Fals felt like an ordinary fellow running against special people. But he liked to think he was good at being a decent person to everyone he met. He had few enemies, and a lot of acquaintances and friends. That was valuable to a Runner.

He stopped by at an acquaintance’s shop on his way to find the Players of Celum, as he’d promised Lyonette. Octavia’s shop, Stitchworks, was normally a place of moderate business. But again, today, Fals found the unexpected. Octavia’s shop was wide open—and people were roundly cursing the door to Liscor.

By proxy this time. Fals pushed his way past dozens of…housewives. Younger [Bakers]. And at the front, arguing with Octavia, a group of some of Celum’s best [Bakers].

“Octavia! Hi! What’s the matter?”

Fals was just here for two stamina potions, but Octavia’s shop was flooded. The [Alchemist] was arguing with the [Bakers] as she tried to sell packets of white…powder. Fals stared.

“Fals! Excuse me! That is my merchandise! I have a right to sell! Yes, thank you! It’s eight silver per packet! Makes dozens of loaves!”

“You can’t do this! It’s just fake stuff! I demand you stop it! Who knows what it’ll do if you eat it?”

A burly [Baker] woman was shouting at Octavia. The [Alchemist] shouted back as the people in line wavered.

“Do? People have been eating it for months! Erin Solstice sells bread and cakes made with it in her inn every night! That’s right, step on up, folks! Baking soda, for sale at a very reasonable price! While stocks last!”

“Baking soda?”

Fals had to ask. One of the upset [Bakers] glared.

“That’s right. It’s this damn white stuff—makes bread rise, apparently! Some kind of [Alchemist] hoppycock!”

“Poppycock?”

“Whatever they use! I’m sure she’s ground it up in there! Probably bugs and worms and whatnot! But it makes bread rise and poof up! It’s an outrage!”

“Why?”

The [Baker] just cursed. Octavia, who’d shoved off the angry [Bakers], grinned and explained as she did business with the eager people in line.

“I sold some to a woman the other day. I’ve had it for ages, but only Erin ever wanted it, so I thought it wasn’t that good. But the woman came back—said it made her bread delicious and puff up! What do I know? I’m not a baker! Everyone wants it!”

“It’s not right! They didn’t earn the Skills to make their bread rise! I’ve got [Natural Yeast]! I apprenticed for years for my Skills! You’re selling a shortcut! Probably with negative side-effects!”

“Erin says it’s fine!”

Octavia bellowed back. She looked at Fals.

“She did say it was fine. I’d better, uh, check. But I’m doing mad business and I dare not leave the shop right now. Could you check for me?”

Fals blinked. The magic door was sitting there, and Octavia had left it open, but the door must have been linked somewhere else. He raised his hands as all the [Bakers], some of which he knew, stared at him.

“I’m afraid I can’t, Octavia.”

Rather than make an enemy out of Celum’s baking elite, Fals slid sideways. He saw a young man in line, trying to hide behind a few excited amateurs.

“Hold on. Don’t I know—”

“Shh! Don’t let them see me!”

The [Apprentice Baker] whispered to Fals. He had a hood on and was nervously clutching three packets of baking soda. Fals blinked and obligingly covered him.

“What’s the matter?”

“I want this powder! I could sell as well as my master with it! It’s wondrous! The other [Bakers]—they’re furious because it allows amateurs to make risen bread! Normally you need a yeast or Skill, and it’s a big secret. But now—”

“Ah.”

Another convenience. Fals saw the [Bakers], unable to stop Octavia without breaking the law, storming towards the door. One turned and shook her fist.

“This isn’t over! The Baker’s Guild won’t let this be silent.”

“Good! Shout it to the world, folks! Baking soda is on sale! And matches! Light a fire and bake some bread! But don’t put any flour in the fire. It explodes. Courtesy of Miss Erin Solstice! Visit The Wandering Inn! Next!”

Fals shook his head as he left Stitchworks. He couldn’t fault Octavia, or the apprentice. Maybe the powder was bad? But if Erin vouched for it…could an [Alchemist]’s powder really replace honest baking?

Fals wasn’t an expert, but he was glad Octavia was making money. He’d get his stamina potions later. And ask Erin about the baking soda. But he had one more important stop.



—-



“Welcome, welcome to Blazehound! We have a practice session by the Players of Celum!”

A voice greeted Fals as he pushed open a door to one of Celum’s other finest inns. Blazehound. True to its name, the inn was merry and lit, and the charming innkeeper, Ulia Ovena, swept towards Fals. He smiled—this was a popular place for couples and people seeking the plushest experience. The Drunken Swordsman was more utilitarian, and larger.

“Miss Ulia, it’s me, Fals.”

“Oh, of course! Fals, good morning to you! Are you not on a run? I can set you up with a table, if you’d like. A room?”

“Actually, I was hoping to speak with Temile?”

The woman beamed. She had a few streaks of grey, but she was considered to be one of the most eligible bachelorettes in Celum. She pointed Fals to the stage.

“You and everyone else. I don’t know that they’ll let you see Temile, unless you have a delivery—and a number of Runners have tried that!”

“Well, I don’t have a delivery but I know Temile. And I have good news for him.”

“Oh?”

Ulia followed Fals. The Players of Celum had made an impromptu stage and backstage out of one of her private rooms. They’d clearly been here for a while; the full room at midday and Ulia’s pleased look, that of a very solvent cat, was proof enough. Fals smiled—then he had a premonition. You didn’t have to be a genius to see the third time coming.

He was definitely going to ruin her day.

“Er…yes, Miss Ulia. The Wandering Inn is back open. The magic door’s back, so Miss Solstice wanted me to send a message to—”

Ulia’s smile vanished in an instant. She grabbed Fals’ arm with surprising strength as he tried to make his way to the stage where a few [Actors] were practicing.

“That inn? Hold on now! You don’t need to tell them—”

“The news is all over, Miss Ulia. I’m just doing my job—”

The [Innkeeper] was trying to pull Fals back. One of the [Bouncers] was strolling over and Fals was about to cut his losses and let someone else tell the Players when he heard a shout.

“Fals!”

Temile himself had spotted Fals. The [Stage Manager] strode over and Ulia let go of Fals with a furious sound. Relieved, the City Runner gave her an apologetic look as Temile appeared.

“Fals! You’re back in Celum already? I saw you off days ago. Does that mean…?”

“Temile, hello. The Wandering Inn is back open. Miss Solstice sends her regards. She was wondering—”

The young man got no further because Temile let out a whoop that made all the Players stop practicing. He turned.

“The Wandering Inn is open! Pack it up, people! We’re rejoining our Liscor [Actors]! Get to Miss Octavia’s shop! I want everyone there in the hour!”

The [Actors] cheered. So did many of Ulia’s patrons. The [Innkeeper] hurried over, grabbing at Temile’s arm.

“Temile! Let us talk about this! You’ve had splendid performances in my inn! And Timbor was getting ready to host you in The Drunken Swordsman! He’s even prepared a stage! Do you have to go to that—that inn?”

The [Manager] gave Ulia an astonished look. Fals wanted to slide out the door. He saw the [Bouncer] glaring—less crowds meant less profits for the entire inn, even if it meant more work. But Temile was just shaking his head as Ulia pleaded with him. The woman was charming and she was turning it up—Fals felt uncomfortably hot, but the [Actor] and [Manager]—or was it [Producer]? One had evolved into the other—was adamant.

“We have half our new [Actors] in Liscor, Miss Ulia. And even if they were willing to work elsewhere—Miss Solstice’s inn is the place! She’s the architect of our grand tragedies and triumphs! I’m sorry, but we did say it was just until she came off holiday. Pack it up! Everyone, we will be at the inn tonight!”

He shook off Ulia and hurried off. Fals saw the [Actors] rushing to pack their props. He winced as the other [Innkeeper] stood there.

“That inn.”

She did not look so charming or pleasant. Fals hurried out the door before Ulia could turn her wrath on him. Almost everyone was happy about the news.

Except for the Runner’s Guild. The Baker’s Guild. The City Watch, who feared Goblins and Antinium, and the association of [Innkeepers] in Celum. Timbor, owner of the very inn where Fals had slept, Miss Agnes, Miss Ulia, and more, cursed the inn. They cursed Erin Solstice.

Something had to be done about her. But Fals had done his due diligence. He hadn’t made a mistake.



—-



The incident occurred about thirty minutes after Mrsha returned to the inn. She was prowling around, bored. She knew no one could take her in Liscor, but she wanted to have fun!

But she wasn’t allowed outside of the inn. Mrsha would have visited the Defenders of the Cave, but Lyonette was worried about Mrsha’s tendencies to fall into dungeons, find Creler eggs, and so on. She was overprotective. Mrsha was brave! She was Mrsha the—

“Mrsha! Stop bothering the Workers!”

Lyonette scolded Mrsha as the Gnoll scampered over the half-finished second floor. The Workers were making fast progress, but they paused to look at the white, fluffy little Gnoll. They were disappointed when Lyonette made Mrsha go down and scolded her for risking injury!

“I know it’s boring, sweetie. But everyone’s busy today. Tell you what—why don’t you ask if one of the nice people will play chess with you? Or Go? Or Shogi? Or—you could help the Players set up. Fals just came back and said they’re coming tonight!”

Mrsha’s tail wagged. The Players were fun! It was never boring when they were around, and one of them was teaching Mrsha how to tumble. She agreed to go downstairs.

That was when she smelled the cake.

Glorious. Oh, simply glorious. Mrsha was drawn to the kitchen without realizing it. A glorious cake was sitting on the new stone counter, cooling.

Lyonette had redone Erin’s kitchen, making it bigger. Allowing for more ovens, places to cook. It still didn’t have magic conveniences, but it could handle all the cooking the inn needed.

Erin Solstice looked up from the frosting she was coating the cake with. She even had different colored food dyes courtesy of Octavia. And the cake—made with baking powder—was nearly done.

“I made a thing! See? Look, it’s an illustration!”

Erin pointed proudly at the cake. Mrsha, salivating, peeked over the edge of the counter.

The cake was big. As big as the oven could afford, wonderfully thick—vanilla—but that was one of the few flavors Erin could make. And she had outdone herself today.

It was decorated. Colored frosting, a first, had been transformed into an image of the inn on a blue-sky day. There was a green hill, brown inn and yellow windows and sun—

It wasn’t a great drawing. Erin wasn’t a [Confectioner], if the class even existed, and her artistic skills weren’t aided by her [Advanced Cooking] Skill. Even so—it was beautiful.

Mrsha reached for a bit of frosting. Erin lightly tapped her hand with a spatula.

“Ah! No frosting for you, Mrsha. Paws off. This is for tonight! If you sneak a snack, you don’t get any.”

Mrsha pouted. That was the rule Lyonette had made. And she was serious about her rules. Mrsha opened her mouth, begging. Just one little taste?

“No, Mrsha. I need to bake some more, anyways. Whew. But it’s hot in here!”

Erin was sweating, having used fire for the cakes and having to adjust the heat, rather than a conventional, convenient electric stove.

“Lasica says you can buy heating runes. Can I get some of those, Palt?”

“Absolutely. I can’t draw them, but ask Montressa or Beza. They can actually set you up.”

Mrsha noticed only now the Centaur standing to the side. He was helping with the cakes. The Centaur nodded at Mrsha, watching his hooves carefully around her. Erin spun.

“Wait. Really?”

“Yup. Beza’s a [Spellscribe]. That’s close to [Enchanter]. Anyways, a heating rune’s only difficulty is mana consumption and being able to adjust the heat. Surely you have some in this inn. Right? I mean, all the mana’s being absorbed by the door. But you have—”

The Centaur took his cigar out of his mouth. Erin stared at him. He stared uncertainly at her.

“I could draw a basic one. I know that Pisces fellow and Ceria were there. Well, she should be able to do cooling runes. If—wait. If she graduated. Any other [Mage]?”

“We had Falene—but she was a [Battlemage] and she said—and there was Moore. And Typhenous. And Revi I guess.”

“None of them knew basic runecraft? And you never asked Magus Grimalkin?”

Erin’s head turned. Mrsha knew Grimalkin was in the inn. She’d seen him demonstrating his weights to a female Runner who’d come in. Garia. He and the one-eyed Drake and Olesm all wanted to talk to Erin.”

Right now, the [Innkeeper] wanted to talk to them. Badly.

“I need to talk to them! Now! Grimalkin!”

“Careful what you say! Don’t let them know—Miss Solstice, be cautious! They want to know—excuse me! Sorry!”

Palt hurried after Erin. Mrsha heard Erin shouting at Grimalkin.

“Hey! Rune me!”

It sounded like fun stuff. Mrsha grinned happily. She’d get to watch something funny! And maybe play with Apista. She could do that until the Players came. It wouldn’t be boring! She began to trot out after Erin.

And stopped.

The cake was right there. Still warm. Erin had placed it on a long piece of wax paper. And the frosting was in a lovely bowl. Mrsha stared up at it.

She wasn’t a glutton. But she hadn’t eaten sweet things back in her tribe much. At all, really. There were a few sweets for Plains Gnolls, but Mrsha loved cake. Like any child. And—she glanced out of the kitchen. Lyonette was busy, Erin was busy. Grimalkin was negotiating. What will you give me for runes? Montressa and Beza had seen their chance. Garia was flexing and Olesm was staring at her stomach.

This was her moment. And no one would notice if a bit was missing, right? Right? Mrsha wasn’t fat, anyways. Lyonette kept thinking she was, but Krshia said Mrsha was a fine weight. Gnolls were bigger than Humans! They didn’t get thin and—whatever.

The Gnoll crept up to the counter. She had a Skill. More than Ekirra, who was a Level 2 [Thrower] because he loved throwing his ball so much. Or Visma, who was a Level 3 [Shaper].

Mrsha was Level 5. A [Druid]! And…a Level 9 [Last Survivor]. Once, she had been a [Young Hunter] in the Stone Spears Tribe. But it had been turned into her other class.

Either way, She had a lot of Skills for someone her age. Like [Natural Concealment]. Now, Mrsha used it. No one would be able to see she was here!

Except Chaldion. And Grimalkin. And some others. And Erin if she concentrated hard—it didn’t matter! Mrsha was going to use this moment.

She leapt up onto the counter in a single bound. It was a big jump, but Mrsha grabbed the counter with her forepaws and pulled herself up. As she did, a bit of the wax paper the cake was on caught on her paw. She accidentally pulled—

And the entire thing went face-first onto the floor.

Mrsha froze. The cake went splat so fast she just stared. It landed, and the frosting smudged the kitchen floor. It wasn’t face-down either. It had landed at an angle, and bent, tearing along the center.

Oh no. Oh no. Mrsha let go. She dropped to the floor and stared. Oh no. The cake was ruined. Mrsha stared.

It took her a minute to process what had happened. First, Mrsha was shocked. Then she was upset. Angry at herself. Stupid Mrsha! Then she was sad. Tears welled up in her eyes. The cake Erin had worked so hard on. And then—

She was going to get in so much trouble. The Gnoll cub began to breathe faster and faster. She panicked. She was going to get smacked! Krshia would do it in a heartbeat! She was going to be put in time-out and never eat cake again. She was going to—

There wasn’t even a chance of salvaging the cake. It was ruined. Mrsha looked at it. She heard Erin arguing with the others. Mrsha crept from the kitchen.

“Look, I just want a rune. I’ll pay you. No favors! Who do I have to pay for a rune? Palt? Palt can do it! No, I’m not answering all your questions. Where am I from? Noneya! Noneya business! Boom!”

Erin self-fived and felt stupid. The others stared at her. Someone began to laugh hysterically.

“Oh, Ancestors. That’s good.”

A very naked Drake leaned against the door he’d just come in and wheezed. Everyone stared at him. Saliss took one look at Erin and guffawed.

“Noneya business! I need to use that! Hi. I’m Saliss.”

Erin turned bright red. She shuffled her feet.

“…I’m never telling that joke again. What do you want?”

“Excuse me!”

Lyonette shouted. She’d gone white at Saliss’ nudity. She looked around.

“Mrsha! Cover your eyes!”

The Gnoll had a heart attack as she crept away. Mrsha looked at Saliss. He posed.

“Don’t fear, Miss. It’s nothing unnatural—”

“Get out! Who is this?”

“That’s Saliss—”

“Mrsha, don’t look. Go upstairs!”

Lyonette hurried over to Mrsha. The Gnoll scampered up the stairs, her heart beating out of her chest. She didn’t know. Not yet. The Drake was arguing with the others in the inn, many of whom had never seen him before. He had an entire city to flash and he was starting with the inn.

But he was small potatoes. Mrsha was terrified. She nodded as Lyonette told her not to come down until she dealt with that Drake. Erin was pointing at her kitchen.

Mrsha hid in her room. Under the bed. For good measure, she put her paws over her eyes. She had good ears. Erin was letting Lyonette fight a losing battle with Saliss. [Princess] or not, she was outmatched by the peerless, nudist hero of Pallass.

A new cast, a new inn. Mrsha heard Erin leading the way into the kitchen. There was an exclamation. Silence.

And then a voice.

“Mrsha! Get down here right this instant, young miss!”

Mrsha shook with fear. She looked around as she bolted from her bed. She had to run! Erin was furious—then Lyonette heard. And she was worse.

“Mrsha? Down here, right now.”

The Gnoll shot into the hallway. At the far end, sunlight beckoned. Worker Antinium were constructing the rest of the second floor. But Mrsha could run across the roof—get off the inn!

“Mrsha! I’m counting to three! One! Two!”

Erin’s voice was loud. Mrsha ran. One of the Worker Antinium looked at her, and put out a hand.

“This one is not supposed to allow you onto the roof. Please return to the inn.”

He blocked Mrsha from going further. The Gnoll looked at him. She tried to jump. He carefully caught her and put her down.

“Mrsha, don’t you dare run away.”

Lyonette was coming up the stairs slowly. She wasn’t shouting like Erin. She was being very…serious. That was worse. Mrsha scrabbled as the Worker put her down in the finished hallway. Run! Run!

She fled into the nearest room as Lyonette appeared in the hallway. The [Princess] sighed. She marched over to the door. It was one of the rooms not occupied by Erin, Bird, Numbtongue, or Lyonette and Mrsha. The [Princess] was going to start letting people stay here as soon as the second-floor was finished. Palt, perhaps. Although stairs were an issue. But certainly…

“Mrsha, come out this instant, young lady.”

Lyonette tried the door handle. Then she frowned and pushed. The door was jammed.

Mrsha had pushed a chair under the knob. Lyonette’s brows shot together.

“Open this door this instant, Mrsha. Do you hear me?”

Mrsha was hiding under the other bed in this room. She was crying. It wasn’t her fault! Today was a good day! She was supposed to eat the cake with Ekirra and Visma! And now it was ruined for everyone!

She was so upset. And Lyonette was rattling the door. The chair hadn’t been perfectly placed and it was sliding out of the way. Mrsha looked around the inn, desperately. She had to go out the window! Run away until Lyonette wasn’t so mad.

“Mrsha, come out. I’m not going to shout at you. Neither will Erin. Mrsha? Don’t go out that window!”

Lyonette’s voice sharpened as Mrsha flung open the window. The Gnoll hesitated. But she was panicked. She looked back at the door and weighed her options. There was a breathless moment in time, like an [Immortal Moment], but made of fear as Lyonette pushed at the door and the chair slid. One more and it would come open. She was angry now.

“Mrsha! Go out that window and—”

Mrsha froze. She looked at the door. The empty guest room had a table, the other door, a chair against one wall, a bed, the window, looking out across Liscor—

Lyonette heaved at the door and the chair finally slid out enough for her to ram to the door open. She shoved the door wide.

“Mrsha! Don’t you dare—”

The [Princess] stopped. She stared at the empty room. It had a table, a chair, and a bed. And an open window. The [Princess] rushed to it. She stared around. But there was no white Gnoll. Not on the hill, not on the roof—the other Workers shook their heads as Lyonette called out to them. She looked around wildly.

“Mrsha! Come back! I’m not angry!”

“You’re not?”

Erin blinked as Lyonette came downstairs. The [Innkeeper] wasn’t upset. Lyonette glared at her.

“We’re not shouting at her.”

“I wasn’t! Okay, I was mad, but I wasn’t gonna hit her!”

“Who’re we mad at?”

Saliss leaned on Erin. She sidled away and he fell down. Lyonette ignored the Drake.

“She went out the window!”

She rushed out the doors and through the hallway. Lyonette flung the main doors to the inn open and stared around. But Mrsha was nowhere to be seen.

Lyonette had a good vantage point from the hill. She should have seen a white figure among the grass, even with Mrsha’s Skill. But if she wasn’t here—

The [Princess] ran about the inn, wondering if Mrsha was hiding from her. By this point, Erin, Saliss, and Grimalkin had all come outside. The [Sinew Magus] sighed.

“It’s just as well the cake was destroyed. That thing is sugar. And I was meaning to talk to you about a dietary plan, Miss Solstice—”

“Mrsha! Come back! We’re not mad!”

Erin cupped her hands and used her [Loud Voice] Skill. Not as ear-splittingly loud as she could, but loud enough. She saw no Gnoll. Grimalkin sighed.

“[Reduced Weight].”

He leapt and landed on the roof. Bird and the other Workers stared at him. The Antinium gaped.

“He can fly! Muscle bird! Look! Look—”

Grimalkin ignored him. He turned, staring in every direction from the top of the inn. He muttered another spell. And then he frowned.

“I don’t see your little Gnoll. Perhaps she’d hiding in the inn?”

“Mrsha! We’re not mad! Come back!”

“Yeah! Whoever you are! Who are we looking for?”

Saliss glanced about. For all he joked, he was peering about. More people came out of the inn. Palt was next.

“Let me trot this way. Maybe she’s running about—”

He began circling the inn. Montressa and Beza appeared. Eager to help out.

“Maybe she’s in the inn?”

“No, there was only one way out besides the door. The window.”

“Did the Antinium see anything?”

More people. Olesm got up. And even Chaldion came to the door.

“What’s this about?”

“The Gnoll—Mrsha. Chaldion, use your eye.”

Grimalkin sighed. The [Grand Strategist] shrugged. He opened his eye patch and to Lyonette’s horror, pulled out the blue gemstone and replaced it with a white one. It was clouded, but it glowed as Chaldion tapped it.

“[Scrying]. Mrsha. Last name?”

“Mrsha of the Stone Spears Tribe. That’s all we know.”

“Hm. I don’t think that will be enough. I’ll scry this area.”

The Drake sighed. He leaned on his cane as the others spread out. Palt decided to run down the hill, check some of the valleys out of sight. Grimalkin leapt down the hill and did likewise.

“This is pointless. Ishkr? Ishkr, can you get Mrsha’s scent?”

Lyonette went back into the inn. Ishkr obligingly sniffed the room where Mrsha had gone. But then he wrinkled his nose.

“I can’t find a new trail. Sorry, I’m no [Tracker]. Does she have a Skill?”

“Yes! At least one. But she can’t have gone far.”

“She’s fast. Gnoll cubs can sprint far. And if she was worried—let’s see. You took about one minute? And if she was still running out of sight—”

Grimalkin was doing a quick calculation. He glanced about. Erin shook her head.

“Mrsha’s not gone far. I’m sure of it.”

“How sure?”

Lyonette stared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] opened and closed her mouth and frowned.

“…Let’s search.”

No one worried. It was one Gnoll cub. And Chaldion would find her. Until he didn’t. The Drake announced he couldn’t locate Mrsha anywhere around the inn.

So they searched the inn. Numbtongue, sitting in his room, embarrassed, was confronted by Erin and Lyonette throwing open his door.

“Is Mrsha in here? Numbtongue, we’re not mad—”

The Hobgoblin stared at them. He was embarrassed—but one look at their faces made him shake his head. Erin looked at him, smiling with a hint of worry. He stood up.

“What happened?”

“Oh, Mrsha ran off. She broke a cake. We’re not mad—we just want to find her.”

“She’s not in the inn?”

The Hobgoblin looked at the two young women. Lyonette shook her head.

“She’s probably hiding. She jumped out a window. She might have hidden—”

“The basement.”

“Of course!”

The two young women hurried out of the room. Numbtongue stared around. He checked under his bed. He followed the two as they went into Erin’s new basement.

Mrsha was not there. But that was fine. The two young women assured Numbtongue he could go back to his room. Someone would have seen her from the walls of Liscor.

By this point, Garia Strongheart, the City Runner was helping search. And everyone else in the inn. Fals jogged back after having run ten minutes one way. Palt was coming back, having done the same. Numbtongue looked at Garia.

“Hi.”

“Hi. Little Mrsha’s gone, right?”

He nodded slowly. But there was nothing to fear.

Until the [Guards] on Liscor’s walls reported to Olesm they hadn’t seen a white Gnoll. And then—Numbtongue saw Erin and Lyonette’s faces. They conferred with Chaldion and Grimalkin.

And Numbtongue began to worry.



—-



He was a [Goblin Soulbard]. A Hobgoblin, alone. He had seen his people die. His comrades had fallen. He didn’t know if Rabbiteater and Badarrow were alive. But he had buried Shorthilt and Headscratcher on a small hill where flowers bloomed.

Mrsha had helped with that. And she, Erin, and Lyonette, and Bird were the reasons why Numbtongue stayed. Someone had to protect them. Or were they protecting him?

Sometimes he forgot that. But now, as no one panicked over Mrsha, who had been gone for nearly half-an-hour despite everyone searching harder and harder, the Goblin felt his duties pressing. He closed his eyes as Erin went to ask for a Gnoll to help track Mrsha. One with a good nose.

“Let me try. I like sniffing things.”

Saliss was joking around in the kitchen. Lyonette made a sound of disgust. But Erin paused and looked at him.

“Please.”

“Don’t be so serious! Little Gnolls run off all the time. She’ll be back.”

The [Alchemist] laughed. But as Erin turned away, Numbtongue saw him reach into his bag of holding. The casual smile on the [Alchemist] vanished. He fished around and pulled out a small, marked vial. He opened it and downed the contents. Then he did take a good sniff.

The Hobgoblin watched him bend, sniff the cake, and turn. There was even a bit of white hair there. Saliss of Lights stood up, saw Numbtongue watching. He affected a look of shock.

“Goblin!”

He raised both hands. Then Saliss pointed.

“Nude Drake!”

He grinned. Numbtongue didn’t laugh. Saliss was giving him goose bumps. The Named Adventurer smiled. He wasn’t even wary of Numbtongue.

“Hey. ‘Sup? Nice class.”

He made finger-claws, pointed them at Numbtongue. Then he walked past the Hobgoblin. On a hunch, the Goblin followed him.

Upstairs Saliss went. He went to the room Mrsha had allegedly vanished in, and looked around. He sniffed again. Then his brows crossed.

“That is strange—”

He caught sight of Numbtongue watching him. Saliss grinned.

“That little Gnoll must be very good at hiding. Well, I tried!”

He wandered out of the room. He didn’t fool Numbtongue. The [Bard] stared into the room.

What did this mean? He was working with pieces. No one was worried. Except Numbtongue. And so, the [Bard] took this more seriously than everyone else who hadn’t panicked. He looked around the room.

“Pyrite.”

Numbtongue nearly used his Skill. [A Minute, Reborn]. But he decided to call on Pyrite’s intelligence and memories instead. His new Skill would bring Pyrite into his body, but he didn’t need Pyrite himself, just his perspective.

The Hobgoblin Chieftain had been intelligent. A brilliant mind. He had been stronger than Numbtongue, wiser. He should have lived. But he hadn’t. And now, he was in Numbtongue’s head. And whatever you might think—part of that Pyrite was glad to help.

Think. The other Hobgoblin was more focused than Numbtongue. Mrsha was gone. She had to have left the inn, as Lyonette had said. There were two entrances to the room. However, the young Gnoll was clever. She, fearing her punishment, had run away.

She could have run so far even Palt and Grimalkin and the Runners, making increasingly large rings around the inn, couldn’t find her. But—consider what Lyonette and Erin were too afraid to.

Consider the worst. Pyrite directed Numbtongue to look up.

How fast would a bird dive? Could a Razorbeak carry Mrsha off? Surely, not without a Worker Antinium noticing. That was the thing. A Wyvern had not gotten her, or the Antinium would have noticed.

Mrsha had used a Skill that could evade even what was probably a very powerful smell-enhancing potion Saliss had used. She had snuck away. And then…what? Had she run and continued to run? That was a possibility, but Mrsha having that level of fear was an odd bet. Pyrite kept thinking.

“I can find her.”

A voice spoke. Numbtongue’s shoulders stiffened. He didn’t look behind him. He knew who was speaking. Because it wasn’t a physical voice. It was in his mind.

“Let me help. If she’s in danger, I can find her at once.”

Slowly, Numbtongue turned around. He stared at the other Goblin.

Reiss, the Goblin Lord, stood in the hallway. He looked as he had died. A hole ran through his chest and he had been cut. He looked as real as anything to Numbtongue, though. But the Hobgoblin knew he was dead.

“Go away.”

The [Bard] gritted his teeth. Reiss shook his head.

“You need me. I can help you. I can’t leave. I’m—I don’t know what I am. Not a ghost. I thought I left.”

So did Numbtongue. He remembered the hill, and the Goblins disappearing. He had seen Reiss. The other Goblin nodded. He could read Numbtongue’s thoughts.

“So what am I? A soul? A fragment? A memory? Let me help you. That’s why I’m here.”

“No.”

Numbtongue folded his arms. Pyrite was telling him to be careful too. But the other Hobgoblin hadn’t said ‘no’. He had a list of benefits and potential consequences. But Numbtongue said no.

Reiss had killed Headscratcher. Because of him, Garen, and so many others were dead. Reiss nodded.

“But let me help you. Use me. You need my power. You have no idea what terrors rule this world. You need my power. I can find the Gnoll child.”

“How?”

Numbtongue glared. Reiss raised one hand, touched an eye.

“[Detect Life]. I can find her.”

“Other [Mage] could do. Go away.”

The Hobgoblin turned away. Reiss sighed.

“If you refuse, it will be like the Crelers. You need power.”

Pyrite agreed. Numbtongue told both to shut up. His shoulders hunched. Below, he heard Erin’s voice.

Mrsha.

“[A Minute—]”

The Hobgoblin’s shoulders straightened. He turned. Pyrite blinked.

Reiss was gone. Odd, that. The Hobgoblin spent one second thinking over why. Different class. Of course. The [Magestone Chieftain] nodded. Then he focused all of his power on helping Numbtongue.

“Gnoll is gone. No smell, not seen—”

He paced around the room, thinking it over. The odds of Mrsha escaping so many eyes and running so far was remote. Ergo, she hadn’t run. She also hadn’t been attacked. Blood smelled strongest. Think. What—

“Ah. The door.”

The Hobgoblin strode downstairs. Pure logic. He saw Erin disappearing into the magic door in Liscor.

“Have you seen Mrsha?”

He asked Olesm, who was going through to Liscor. The Drake jumped.

“Numbtongue? No! Erin was just going to check Liscor—”

“Ah.”

Pyrite nodded. He let the Drake go through and closed the door. Thoughtfully, Pyrite inspected the dial.

There were a few settings.

Liscor, Celum, Esthelm, Pallass. Also, the Bloodfields, and the red gemstone for the Goblin cave.

You could rule out Liscor and Pallass at once. Thoughtfully, The Hobgoblin shook his head at the Bloodfields door. Mrsha wasn’t stupid. He slowly turned the dial to Esthelm, then shook his head.

“Unfamiliar.”

That left one option—no, two. The Hobgoblin eyed the red mana stone. He switched to it, pulled the door open.

Nothing happened. It was dead. The Hobgoblin shrugged. He felt his minute evaporating. He switched the dial.

“Ce—”

“—lum.”

Numbtongue finished the sentence. Pyrite’s detective work had led him to the right conclusion. He thanked Pyrite in his head. Then he swung open the door.

“Numbtongue!”

Octavia’s shop was trashed. Numbtongue stared at the clutter, as if hundreds of people had been through here. But the [Alchemist] was beaming. She hurried around.

“How have you been, friend? I have had the best day ever! Let me tell you—”

The Hobgoblin smiled at Octavia. But he was looking around the shop. Pyrite was smart.

“Octavia. Did Mrsha come through this door an hour ago?”

The [Alchemist] stopped. She blinked at Numbtongue.

“Mrsha? No. Why? Is something wrong?”

The Hobgoblin’s face fell. Pyrite had been sure. But then—

“She’s missing.”

“Oh no. How? Let me help. Hold on—I’ll just lock the shop—”

Octavia hurried over to the door. Numbtongue nodded, gratefully. He saw a Goblin standing in the inn.

“Now.”

Slowly, the [Bard] turned. He glared. But Reiss just held out a claw. Numbtongue reached for it—

“Alright! Secure that door!”

Numbtongue whirled. Octavia froze at the entrance to her shop, key in hand. The Hobgoblin strode over.

“What’s—”

Guards, dozens of them, were converging on Stitchworks. One of them, the Watch Captain, marched up to Octavia’s shop. He tried the handle, then bellowed.

“Open this door!”

“We’re closed! What’s this about?”

Octavia looked at Numbtongue. He looked back at the inn. The door had closed. Someone had just used it! The Watch Captain hadn’t seen Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin crouched as the man bellowed back.

“Open up! By order of the [Mayor], the door to Liscor is confiscated! And Celum will no longer be doing business with the inn! Open! By order of the Watch!”

“You can’t do that! You—stay back!”

Octavia looked at Numbtongue. The [Bard], crouching, saw more [Guards] converging. They weren’t looking for a fight. But they had weapons and he was alone. Octavia was thinking the same thing. She pointed to the back of her shop.

“Window. Go!”

Numbtongue ran. Erin Solstice didn’t think to check Celum until ten minutes later. When she did, she found her door was confiscated. And the Watch Captain was dismayed to learn he’d only seized the portal stone, not the magic door itself. She stared at him. Octavia mouthed to her frantically. Erin’s brows snapped together.

“Where’s Numbtongue?”

But he was gone. No one had seen him in the city after the fight. And so was Mrsha.



—-



The white Gnoll stared around a minute after she escaped Lyonette’s not-wrath.

She was lost. She remembered, vividly, the moments before Lyonette had opened the door. She had looked around, seen the open window, the table, the door, and—

The other door.

It had been strange. Faded wood and iron, and a brass handle, set into one wall. It had been different from the other ones in the inn. And it hadn’t belonged in the guestroom. It should have connected to the roof, so Mrsha had flung it open. But when she’d rushed through—

The door was gone. Mrsha stared about. She was standing in grass. But shadowed. Tall plants grew behind Mrsha, twisting vines, covering a…wall of sorts behind her.

The Gnoll sniffed the air. She inhaled the scent of nature, strong. Wild. No smells of fire or metal. Just—plants. The grass was interspersed with tiny flowers. And the…place she was in was shadowed. Partly. Darkness obscured the area to Mrsha’s left and right.

But there was sunshine ahead. It poured down, and Mrsha saw more plants. Wild grass where she sat. She wriggled her toes.

But where was she? She only knew she’d been afraid, and the door had been here. Slowly, the Gnoll padded forwards. The first to step into a magical room, one that whispered in the faint breeze, where plants grew. A safe place.

The [Garden of Sanctuary].





7.07


“It’s uncanny. She’s rather like an enigma wrapped up in a bottle inside an aggravating pot enchanted to annoy you.”

“…I understand what you’re saying, but I’d never have expected that line to come from you, Grand Strategist.”

“Magus Grimalkin. Do you disagree?”

“Not at all. I would have simply abbreviated the analogy. Erin Solstice is more like someone with layers.”

“Like an onion?”

“…No.”

“No. I was going to say a multi-level shield spell. Why an…onion?”

“Don’t you cook with onions? Either of you two?”

“I do not cook. I’ve studied nutrition, but cooking is not a practice I need to or care to study.”

“I can cook, Saliss. How is this germane to the conversation?”

“I’m just saying. Onions. Fry them up and they’re good. You can toss some oil in a pan, some onions, and maybe a bit of sauce or salt—that’s a snack.”

“Hm. Nutritional value?”

“I mean, they’re onions. I use them in one of my cloud-based recipes. So you get a killing cloud of poison that smells like onions.”

“We’re being derailed. Be silent, Saliss. My point is simply that she’s clever, intentionally or not. Grimalkin, you have experience with her. Is this…normal?”

“Hmf. I’d say it’s partly unconscious. But she obfuscates intentionally. Nevertheless, I’ve experienced this before. Not in this fashion, but a quiet, normal evening in this inn is a rare phenomenon.”

“Fascinating.”

“Yeah. Why are we whispering?”

Grimalkin and Chaldion both turned to look at Saliss. The third Drake paused.

“I mean—Chaldion’s using his ring. Why are we whispering?”

The other two Drakes stared at the [Alchemist]. ‘Annoyed’ was a mild word to describe how they felt about Saliss. Resigned, aggravated—you had to combine descriptors. But the Named Adventurer was the best [Alchemist] in all of Pallass, perhaps the world. He was more useful than he looked. And—well, he was also hard to get rid of.

Moreover, he was amid equals, in a sense. Grimalkin, the [Sinew Magus], and Chaldion, [Grand Strategist] in charge of Pallass’ armies were both famed and influential. If anything, Grimalkin was the lesser figure here. If anyone was being a stickler for the exact nuance of rank.

But no one was. And the three Drakes outranked and mattered more than anyone else in the inn in which they stood. And yet—they stood in a corner, talking. They were here, having taken time out of their incredibly busy schedules—again, Saliss being a sort of exception—to come here.

Because of a Human. Erin Solstice. And at this moment, Chaldion and Saliss were experiencing a phenomenon Grimalkin in his personal notes was dubbing the ‘Erin-chaos effect’.

Chaldion went on, looking around. He stopped whispering as Saliss, still nude, busily mushed up something in a mortar and pestle. It was amazing how fast you could get used to a naked Drake. No one in the inn even paused to stare at Saliss. Because there were more important matters to deal with.

“The Gnoll child is gone. I’ve scried this entire area. Even with her full name—she’s gone. That should not be possible.”

Grimalkin nodded. The [Magus] paused, and then extended a claw. Saliss glanced up as the burly Drake murmured.

“Mrsha Stone Spears. [Scry].”

There was a flash and his eyes glowed blue-white. Grimalkin paused.

“Nothing. It could be the scrying spell is struggling with Gnollish naming conventions. Plains Gnolls don’t have last names. [Scry] Mrsha Stonespears.”

“I’m used to [Scrying] spells, Magus. I can’t imagine we’d both fail. But yes, it is cumbersome.”

Chaldion sighed. He flipped up his eye patch and his blue pearl fake eye glowed with the same magic.

“[Scry]. Krshia Silverfang.”

This time, something clearly happened. Chaldion’s eye continued to glow. Saliss turned and waved at the ceiling, from where Chaldion’s magical gaze was coming. Grimalkin looked up too. You could actually detect a [Scrying] spell if you knew where to look. Chaldion nodded.

“Perfectly clear.”

He turned and all three Drakes stared at the tall Gnoll woman, the [Shopkeeper] who was one of many people in the inn. Krshia was conferring with Elirr and some other Gnolls trying to pick up on Mrsha’s scent.

They’d all failed. And after two hours since Mrsha’s disappearance, the not-panic had involved more than just the inn’s guests. Relc had appeared, on-duty, as had Klbkch, two Councilmembers from Liscor—it could be said that even Zevara was taking an interest through her Senior Guardsmen.

And no one had found Mrsha. Now, the not-panic was becoming something more than a concern. But Chaldion was cool-headed. He looked at Grimalkin and Saliss.

“The name is not the issue. Wherever the child is, she either possesses a Skill or artifact that can defeat a [Scrying] spell—and scent—and turn her invisible to Antinium Workers and leave no trail—”

“Or something got her.”

The others nodded. Saliss paused as there was a sound from the doors. Everyone in the inn turned. A Centaur trotted in, breathing hard. He looked around.

“No news. Sorry. I ran all the way down to the road north. No one’s seen her.”

He was looking around for Lyonette or Erin, but the two were still out looking. Relc was at the Bloodfields, scouting around with Klbkch. They’d checked Pallass already; the guards had denied seeing a white Gnoll. Esthelm was being investigated by Erin herself. Liscor was looking out for Mrsha and Elirr had checked Krshia’s apartment.

And Celum…well, that was another thing. Chaldion paused.

“Put aside the child for now. Let’s focus on what happened. Just as I was attempting to speak with that young woman, this incident happened. As well—Celum has suddenly decided to refuse entry through their magical door.”

“Good summarizing. I ate eggs today for breakfast. With toast.”

Saliss murmured. Chaldion ignored him. He looked at Grimalkin.

“You’ve said that getting information out of Miss Solstice is difficult, Magus Grimalkin. I assumed it was because you didn’t press her. Now I’m beginning to understand.”

“In fairness, the events with Celum were a long time coming. And Mrsha’s disappearance could just be chance. I doubt Erin Solstice wanted either event. However—I have witnessed her deliberately causing this kind of incident. Did you know, half of her guests assumed Pallass was attacked because she was vacationing there? The rumor is that she has a Skill which attracts trouble—or luck, as the case may be.”

“Really? I’ve met [Gamblers] who can do that. You think if I tag along with her, she can do something really entertaining? Like, say, accidentally knocking down one of Pallass’ walls?”

Saliss’ eyes gleamed. Chaldion turned his head and glared.

“Sir Saliss, if you have nothing to add, please remove yourself from my presence.”

His voice was icy. And the Grand Strategist of Pallass was normally known for being even-tempered. Cunning, deliberate, ruthless—but seldom just angry or annoyed. Then again, Saliss was Saliss and they had a long history. Grimalkin folded his arms.

“Erin Solstice’s place of origin and history are part of her mystery. I personally suspect that she’s hiding something incredibly significant, but as I’ve said, this is only a supposition based on no proof but instinct.”

“Well, that is why I am here, Grimalkin. I just can’t help but marvel at the timing of her coincidences.”

Chaldion’s eyes narrowed. He too sensed something, even if he couldn’t put it into words. Erin Solstice’s ability at chess, her personality, her knowledge of…lifting…all of it spoke to the [Grand Strategist]. Yet, like Grimalkin, he didn’t even have the framework to guess at the truth.

“I just came here for the food. And Xif keeps bragging so I wanted to annoy him. Plus, I wanted to see what Liscor’s prison looks like. No one’s arresting me in Pallass anymore.”

Saliss scratched at the scales on his butt. Grimalkin sighed.

“Sir Saliss.”

“Wow. You say that so unironically. I haven’t heard someone do that in years. Do it again!”

“Sir Saliss, have you tried to locate the child?”

The [Alchemist] paused. He sighed as Grimalkin gave him a look devoid of humor. The adventurer grew serious for one reluctant moment.

“No smells, no unusual sights. I used two good potions, too. It is weird. Kids don’t have Skills that good. Even if she was Level 20 or something—”

“Impossible.”

“Nah, it’s happened. I think the record is Level 21 at age seven.”

“How?”

“Child soldiers.”

“Ah.”

The three Drakes grew quiet again. They eyed the room. It was full of stillness and motion. People were reacting to the situation as befit their personalities. Some, like Drassi, were rushing about, getting water for the panting Palt, encouraging other people, working to keep themselves from worrying.

Others, like Krshia and Elirr, were still. Waiting for…something. Then they’d move like wildfire.

But what were they waiting for? The worst? A miracle? No one could say. But Grimalkin, Chaldion, and Saliss stood together, outsiders to this inn. They didn’t know Mrsha well. Even Grimalkin was a more sporadic visitor. He turned as there was a sound from the hallway.

“Erin! Where’s Erin?”

Every head turned, hopefully, expectantly. Saliss just glanced up and went to grinding with his little pewter bowl. The door opened and a team of four rushed in.

Adventurers. The Halfseekers. Ulinde, their newest member, followed Seborn, Moore, and Jelaqua. All four were panting.

“I just heard. Has anyone found Mrsha? We’ll help look!”

Jelaqua stared about the room. Krshia hurried over to her. Moore bent over as the Halfseekers listened to the Gnoll woman; Moore’s face was one of anguish and worry.

“Lot of strange people around here.”

Saliss murmured as he poured the powdered Eir Kelp into one vial for making a healing potion with later. Chaldion glanced up sharply.

“You mean, their classes. Which ones?”

“I have no idea what you’re talking about. Isn’t that what all your investigations are supposed to turn up?”

Saliss fluttered his eyes at Chaldion. The [Grand Strategist] turned away. The [Alchemist] did not look directly at Krshia. The three Drakes fell silent as Jelaqua took her team upstairs, to look at the spot where Mrsha had been.

They were being logical. And keeping their heads in the panic. Better than Krshia or the others; their veneer of control was just that. But the three Drakes were calm, used to graver crises than this. But it had to be said that they were also…

Embarrassed. Frankly, that was the emotion that unified the three. They were all the most important people in the room. And yet—they’d been just as stumped by Mrsha’s disappearance.

It was like she’d vanished. And between the three Drakes, that was a hard thing to admit. If Mrsha had been teleported, even with [Greater Teleport], there would have been a magical residue. If she’d been attacked, carried off, Saliss would have scented it.

Chaldion had gone through the logical exercises that Pyrite had, but every avenue revealed no white Gnoll. Not even Celum; the City Watch and Octavia both denied seeing Mrsha and the odds of her being in the city were remote.

“It has to be a Skill. But whose?”

Grimalkin growled. Chaldion folded his arms.

“Another point to investigate. My time was not wasted coming here. However—”

Every head turned as Erin Solstice appeared. She walked through the front doors leading to the trapped hallway.

“She’s not in Esthelm. I think…I think she’s here. Lyonette. I’m certain of it.”

The [Innkeeper] turned to Lyonette. The [Princess]’s hand was bleeding. The Gnolls smelled it and Saliss’ keen eyes saw the blood from where her fingernails had cut into her skin. But neither one was panicking, or wailing. What good would that do? And Erin Solstice…

“She’s here. I wasn’t sure at first, but I know it, Lyonette. That’s why I’m not panicking. Mrsha’s…here.”

Erin slowly walked into the inn. She looked around, her eyebrows furrowed. Staring around and searching for…something. Lyonette followed her, white-faced.

“But we’ve searched everywhere! She wouldn’t have hidden! Mrsha’s not like that! Once she heard us calling out—did she fall into one of Belgrade’s traps? I told him—”

“No. She’s here. But not…here.”

The young woman cut Lyonette off. She was visibly confused. Erin looked around, and then straight at Saliss.

“You’re here.”

“Hi. Yes I am.”

He waved at her. Erin ignored Saliss. She stared about the room.

“Is Palt here? Or Montressa?”

“I’m—”

“Yes, hello! How can we help?”

Montressa interrupted the exhausted Centaur. The [Aegiscaster] hurried over, staff in hand. Erin nodded to her as Beza hung back.

“Can you do something for me? Turn invisible?”

“I can do that.”

“And me.”

“What do you want to do?”

Grimalkin was curious too. Erin looked at all three [Mages].

“I’ll turn my back. Go invisible and hide.”

“Erin—”

“I’m testing something, Lyonette.”

“Give us ten seconds.”

The three [Mages] exchanged looks. Erin turned around and all three vanished. Saliss and Chaldion both didn’t blink, and their eyes followed patches of air moving across the room.

The others weren’t able to track the [Mages] so well. The Gnolls sniffed the air, getting approximate locations. Drassi noticed a chair moving as Montressa bumped it. Lyonette recoiled from a breeze. But then there was just silence.

“…nine…ten…”

Erin finished counting. She held still. Her eyes were closed and her back was turned to a wall. She didn’t immediately turn around. Instead, her head rose. And then the [Innkeeper] thoughtfully spoke.

“Palt is upstairs. Somehow. Montressa’s in the kitchen. And Grimalkin’s…not in the inn.”

Lyonette stared at Erin’s back. There was an exclamation from the kitchen and Montressa reappeared. Someone went to get Palt.

“Where’s Grimalkin?”

“Outside.”

A number of voices chorused. Drassi went to fetch Grimalkin. He strode back in.

“I walked down the hill. Your findings?”

“Mrsha’s here.”

Erin looked around. Her eyes narrowed.

“I couldn’t do this when I was Level 20.”

Chaldion eyed Erin. Saliss just grinned. Erin Solstice looked at Lyonette. The [Princess] was piecing together what Erin had understood.

“So—so you’re sensing Mrsha? You know she’s here?”

“I am. That’s why I wasn’t that worried, Lyonette. I thought it was my imagination. But Mrsha is in my inn. Just not…here, here.”

“What does that mean?”

“I don’t know. She’s in my inn. But she’s not anywhere I know.”

Everyone looked as perplexed as Erin. She hadn’t figured it out yet. The Grand Strategist’s eyes narrowed though. He touched his ring and created another space to whisper to the other two Drakes in. Grimalkin walked over and nodded.

“The [Princess]?”

“No. Perhaps a new facet of her class. A new Skill. Didn’t she mention having two?”

Grimalkin and Chaldion were beginning to put it together. They exchanged significant looks. Saliss…well, he glanced at Erin as he put another bit of dried Eir Kelp in his bowl to mash up.

It was only a matter of time before she figured it out. She’d fooled even him. For a moment. Then he’d put it together.

Saliss’ eyes were reptilian, a long vertical pupil instead of rounded ones, like Gnolls and Humans had. Like a Dragon’s eyes, although Dragons would balk at being compared to their descendants. Yet, Saliss’ eyes were more like a Dragon’s than most.

They narrowed now. Staring at Erin Solstice. And Saliss saw…all there was to see.

[Eyes of Appraisal]. A Skill for an [Alchemist]. Saliss looked at Erin. He saw her level, her class. Her Skills. He nodded to himself. Unusual Skills for an [Innkeeper], some of them. She had a weird distribution.

An [Innkeeper] who had to fight monsters got Skills like these. One who valued people more than, say, the ability to conjure up free food each day, or who had the ability to boost her staff into working like fiends. But clearly, she didn’t know how at least two of her Skills worked.

Well, well. The [Alchemist] busily mashed up the second bit of kelp as Grimalkin and Chaldion walked over to Erin and her head kept turning. He was just a bystander, watching the show. If she or Lyonette had started crying, he’d probably have given her a tip.

But at the moment? Saliss looked into his bowl, with a serious, detached expression on his face. Anyone looking at him would have assumed he was just as grave and concerned as everyone else. But the truth was that Saliss was trying really hard not to laugh.



—-



Mrsha stood in another place. She stared around the strange world she’d entered when she’d fled from Lyonette. It was completely foreign to her.

Soft grass covered the ground. Behind her stood a wall. But covered with vines. Mrsha stared at the wall, where the door had allowed her in. And then vanished. Where it had been was a wooden wall, made of dark brown wood.

It looked like the wood of the inn. But older, weathered. Solid. It stretched up, curving. And it became the sky. Mrsha stared at it. It had taken her fifteen minutes to pry away the creeping vines from the wall to expose the sight of the wooden wall. Like ivy, it had subsumed the actual surface.

Now, Mrsha sat back. She stared up at the wall. It rose, arching, creating the shadowed dome that she realized encircled this entire place. But it was so tall. And there were no supports. It was an unnatural structure, to Mrsha. Perhaps you could make something like this in reality, but where had this come from?

She had been in Erin’s inn. And now…Mrsha’s small head went up and up, looking around.

She was lost here. The door was gone. And the wooden wall that was so familiar and different created a domed, circular room.

All but in one place. The dome of wood and twisting vines stopped in the air. And a large, circular center let bright light shine down into this strange area. Mrsha saw the beam of light, illuminating the world ahead.

She wiggled her paws in the grass. It was so soft. Not like full-grown, whippy grass with seeds and other plants mixed in. This was pleasant. Soft. You could roll about in it forever.

Mrsha did, for a bit. She felt her anxiety disappearing. She should have been afraid, snatched away to somewhere else. But she wasn’t. Instinctively, Mrsha felt reassured and she couldn’t have said why. Her [Druid] class told her she was safe.

And so did something else. This world was familiar. If anything, Mrsha just wanted to find the door so she could show Lyonette. But—she was still angry. So Mrsha decided to explore. Maybe she’d find the door when she did.

Shade engulfed this part of the…garden. And Mrsha saw that light would seldom come here. Grass grew in places, like where she’d walked in. But soft, loamy soil was just as frequent. Mrsha stopped as she saw a large stone with large mushrooms growing next to them. She sniffed cautiously, but she recognized some of them. All edible, according to Urksh.

Mrsha nearly nibbled a few, but she wasn’t hungry. They were big mushrooms, though. She looked around. And blinked.

This world wasn’t one flat place. It was large—large enough to hold a small hill in one section. Mrsha saw the sunlit ground sloping up. But the garden was divided into different spots.

She stood in the shade, here. And Mrsha saw something curious.

A ring of mushrooms. It was a big circle in the middle of the grass. The Gnoll trotted over, fascinated by the way the little, purple shrooms sprang up yet kept to the formation. She put one paw in the center of the circle, and then leapt in.

Mrsha’s hair stood up on her body. She inhaled, and waited. But nothing happened. The Gnoll child laughed silently. She rolled around in the grass, and then leapt up. And she knew, knew, that this place had been meant for her. So she began to run.

Soft dirt and shade. A mushroom as large as Mrsha. The soft smell of decay, and life budding again in shadows. A glowing strand of fungus. And under a rock—

Nothing. Mrsha saw no bugs. She should have. Bugs loved to live in places like this. But the only living thing besides the plants was her. Mrsha ran ahead, and found there was a little path of flat stones. Who had made it? Why?

She followed it. It ran right, sloping upwards. Mrsha raced up, laughing to run freely. She couldn’t run in the inn without hitting something! But this—

The white Gnoll crested a bit of earth and stopped. She beheld more of the garden. And she saw at the center of the area, bathed in sunlight, was a plateau.

Filled with flowers. A meadow sprang to life on the upraised dirt in the middle section. Large enough to play in. Not to play baseball, but throw a ball as far as anyone but Relc could. Mrsha saw big flowers blooming, and stalks of wheat, full-grown grass, and no stones or weeds or anything hurtful in sight.

Her eyes grew round, and then the Gnoll ran joyfully into the meadow. She leapt through the flowers, inhaling a dozen pollens and sneezing gleefully. Mrsha emerged through the other side and looked back. But no butterflies or small animals escaped her rampage.

That gave her a moment’s pause. Not seeing any other life was eerie. But she couldn’t shake the feeling that she was safe. It was a certainty. And Mrsha saw how every color of flower bloomed. Well, except black. But it was uncanny to see so many different colors, as if someone had intentionally created the diversity.

Mrsha trotted over to a lovely pink flower blooming in the grass. She hesitated, then gathered it up, and a few yellow ones, a white one there—she made a little bouquet. So Lyonette would not be mad. She’d be happy to see this place.

But where was she? Again, Mrsha looked around. She raced to one edge of the meadow. There! There was the mushroom-spot. And if you circled the…dome…

Mrsha stared. Then she abandoned the flowers and raced down the hill. She tripped, tumbled, and nearly fell into the pond.

It was most definitely a pond. Mrsha caught herself and stared into the clear waters. She sniffed, and tasted experimentally. Good water. Mrsha cupped her paws and drank some. Then she frowned.

The pond wasn’t being fed by anything. It ran up against the wall, and Mrsha, peering in, could see smooth stones making up the base. And a bit of sand. But—she was no hydrologist, but she understood water had to come from somewhere.

The white Gnoll peered at the clear pond, and then at the plants growing around here—now, more suited to a swamp or lakeside biome. She turned, and raced back up to the central meadow. Plants. Which wanted water and sunlight.

Mrsha looked up at the hole in the roof. And she saw the sky. It shone down, a bright ray of sunlight. She saw blue skies. Clouds. It…looked like the very same sky as she’d seen from Liscor. Then, Mrsha spotted something. She ran left. No—she ran right. Nearly fell down the small incline again. And then she spotted it.

Aha! The Gnoll pointed with one paw. There, peeking out if she craned back. A mountain!

The High Passes. Wherever she was, this dome reflected the sky above Liscor. Which meant…Mrsha ran back to the pond and sniffed.

Rainwater, probably. Runoff from the sky. Mrsha nodded to herself. That made sense. Contented, Mrsha ran back a few paces, and then leapt.

The white Gnoll splashed into the pond and happily swum around. With a breaststroke, rather than a doggy paddle, thank-you-very-much. Who called it that, anyways?

Erin could be so weird. Mrsha dove, touching the smooth stones at the bottom. She swam around, delighted to do it. No one had let her swim in the rain, and she’d missed swimming. Plains Gnolls swam all the time in ponds or lakes or rivers they came across. Some City Gnolls her age didn’t even know how to swim, like Ekirra.

After a minute or two, Mrsha surfaced. She clambered out of the pond and shook herself. Okay, like a dog. A bit miffed, Mrsha looked back into the pond.

No fish, either. She was beginning to sense a trend. Huffily, Mrsha ran back up the meadow and lay in the sun for a while. It was so pleasant.

Mrsha might have taken a nap. Just for a bit! Because she woke up when a cloud obstructed the sun for a moment. The white Gnoll got up. And she remembered.

Lyonette was still mad with her. And she was gone from the inn. Vaguely alarmed, Mrsha sat up. This place was doing something to her. She’d forgotten all about Lyonette!

This time Mrsha ran down the hill and back to where the door had been in the soft soil. The stone path even led right up to…nothing. Mrsha could see where she’d cleared the vines from the wooden wall. But there was no door.

Frowning, Mrsha sat there and stared at the spot. The door was still gone. But perhaps it would come if she wanted it to? Mrsha paused.

Did she want it to? She backed up from the spot a bit nervously. She was going to get scolded. Maybe—maybe she should explore a bit more. So Lyonette wouldn’t be as angry when she came back. Oh! There were still more spots to see! She should explore this entire place so Lyonette and Erin would know what was what when Mrsha got out.

Mrsha ran off, relieved at this sensible Mrsha-logic. She raced past the pond, doing a circuit rather than climbing higher. She’d spotted a path leading higher, and a large hill running up against the dome’s side, but she wanted to explore the low ground first. Mrsha ran around the wall—

And entered into a sea of fog. One second, Mrsha was leaving the pond, the next—white enshrouded her. Instantly, the Gnoll fled backwards. Wet fog clung to her fur for a second. And then she was back.

The Gnoll stared ahead. At the base of the hill was a spot enshrouded in fog. Like—well, fog. Cloud, that rolled in when the air was thick with wet. But this was unnatural.

It was moving. Mrsha backed up as the fog slowly rolled around her. Her fur became wet with dew. Mrsha inhaled—yes, fog. It was wetting the grass and—Mrsha saw as the fog went past her this new spot was dense. Trees sprang up in profusion. Wild sycamores, tall fronds—

A jungle! Mrsha the [Explorer] needed something to hack at the plants with. She looked around and found a stick. Mrsha fought her way into the first layer of dense vegetation—

And immediately backed out when a burr-bush got her fur. There were dangerous plants here! True, this one was just little seeds, but a put-out Mrsha had to yank the sixteen or so burrs that had got her from a swift encounter. She glared at the jungle.

No thank you! Mrsha ran the other way.

Through the fog again. It was travelling around the entire place! Mrsha raced through it—went right into the pond.

She clambered out, glowering. Well now! She supposed the fog helped keep the place nice and growing. It went uphill, rather than go near the mushrooms. Because they didn’t need as much water? Mrsha went left, declining to run through the fog and hit something.

The other side of the hill had…dryness. Arid land. Mrsha sensed it was drier here almost immediately; the fog had definitely not done good work. And she stared at a tree blooming in the yellow grass.

Mrsha had never seen an acacia tree before. The tall, broad canopy was foreign to her. A tree, but different in ways of nuance. If a sycamore was one big base with branches all full of leaves, creating a…a…bushy effect, an acacia was more like a mushroom.

It let all its green near the top, creating a hat, an umbrella to create shade, to allow dew to gather in the mornings. Mrsha stared up at it, and then at the yellow, dry grass.

What a strange place! And this tree—Mrsha spotted browning…things hanging off the branches. She peered up at them. They looked a bit like bean pods, but far larger. Seeds? She nearly climbed the tree, but forewarned with the tropical zone, Mrsha spotted the tiny thorns on the tree.

So, this place had some mean plants. Mrsha backed up from the tree. It wasn’t overtly hostile; nothing in this area screamed ‘Bloodfields’ at Mrsha. Certainly, none of the plants were alive like the biting plants with mouths. Some just had thorns, or stupid seeds.

But it made Mrsha feel like this spot had moods. Dry, shaded, jungle, wet.

Marshlands, arid, tropical, temperate—Mrsha turned around. And finally, she got it. She ran back up to the meadow and stared around. This was it.

The [Garden of Sanctuary]. It had taken Mrsha a while to figure out what it was, but there could be no doubt. Erin’s Skill had worked. It was just that Mrsha had been the first to find the door in.

Awed, Mrsha looked around. The garden bloomed about her. Wild plants, blooming in profusion. Different spots, which could host different plants. The Gnoll took all of this in. And then she laughed.

Mrsha laughed. Silently, giggling as she fell onto her back. Of course! The garden! And Erin had thought her Skill was bad. But this!

This was another world. A safe haven. Mrsha leapt around the meadow, imagining what it could become. You could grow anything here! The Faerie Flowers that Lyonette were worried might be stolen could grow here! She could put fish in the pond and Relc could teach her to fish with his spear! Apista would love it here. And maybe a few butterflies? Mrsha could see a few rabbits, birds—unless Bird killed them all.

And it was safe. The door had come when Mrsha wanted it. Surely, it would let her out again. A safe place that only Mrsha and her best friends and family could enter. She could run about here forever, with Ekirra, Visma—and no one would ever be able to hurt her.

It was perfect. Now, twice as excited, Mrsha ran about, sniffing everything. Mushrooms for food! Maybe you could eat some of the stuff in the jungle? What—what if Erin grew Blue Fruit trees here? Or—or some of the fruit trees that Mrsha knew about? She’d help! She could grow things because she was a [Druid]!

Excitedly, Mrsha grabbed her wand and began growing magic grass. It wilted after a little bit of course, but she was overjoyed. She had to show Lyonette and Erin! They’d be so excited—

Maybe they’d forgive her for the cake?

Mrsha paused. Her face fell.

Uh oh. She’d forgotten. And—Mrsha didn’t know how long she’d been asleep after her nap, but she had a sinking feeling she was in more trouble. Wasn’t that how it worked? Somehow, if you ran away from trouble with adults, you just got into more.

The Gnoll’s ears flattened. She looked around. But the door wasn’t here. Because Mrsha really didn’t want to go back. She knew she had to. But maybe she should wait until it was dark? Pretend she couldn’t come back, that she was lost here? Maybe if Lyonette worried, she’d be nicer.

But she would worry. Mrsha knew that too. Guilt squeezed Mrsha’s heart. But it was warring with her desire not to be scolded. Mrsha looked around, unhappy. And then she turned and saw the hill.

It was a tiny hill, but it was the last spot not explored. The central meadow and the stone path sloped up towards it. The last spot Mrsha hadn’t explored. The Gnoll cub hesitated. But then she padded up the steps.

Just a moment longer before she went to get her punishment. Mrsha walked up the stones neatly set into the earth. And she wondered—who had made all this? Was it just the product of the Skill? Or had someone designed it?

She got her answer as she climbed the hill. It was steeper here, although Mrsha doubted you could break anything even if you leapt from this spot. It was Erin’s [Garden of Sanctuary], after all.

But there was a stillness up here. As Mrsha reached the crest of the hill, she turned her head. She could see the entire garden below her. It was a commanding view, and she would love nothing more than to roll down the hill.

But not yet. The air was solemn here. Too quiet. Mrsha’s fur began to stand up. She stared around. The top of the hill could get some light from the hole in the dome. And it felt like a perfect day.

A single tree bloomed in the middle of grass. Just grass. It was a surreal scene. As if someone had cultivated this space. And then Mrsha saw what lay in front of the tree. And her hair rose even more.

A bench. It was just a bench. Made of wood and smooth metal. But it was unnatural. Not a plant, not meant to be here. Because—Mrsha felt that someone had to have made it. You couldn’t just conjure a bench. Right?

To begin with, benches were foreign to Plains Gnolls. Mrsha approached it, slowly. It sat in the grass, waiting for someone to sit. It was an invention of cities. More at home to Erin’s world, the idea that you needed something to sit on rather than the ground.

And indeed, this bench might have come from Erin’s world. It looked worn, not new and shiny. It smelled like that to Mrsha. As if it had always been here. It even looked comfortable, although Mrsha could see putting a pillow there and napping.

She ran her paws over the wood. No splinters. But—what was the point of this hill? The grass? The bench? The tree? It was a serene sight. But Mrsha felt there was something here.

Waiting for her. She slowly walked left. And then—it was there. It surely hadn’t been a moment ago. Mrsha had seen the entire hill in a moment. But like the door, it was suddenly present. And Mrsha spotted it.

A table. Like the bench, it was familiar. Wooden. Worn. But suddenly—here. Without explanation. And the bench was gone. But that wasn’t what held Mrsha’s gaze. It wasn’t what stopped her. Stopped her cold, and made her heart freeze.

The table waited. And something sat there, at it. Mrsha froze.

She stopped and stared up. At what was waiting there. As if it had been there forever, waiting for her. And Mrsha knew the truth of what the [Garden of Sanctuary] held. She stared for a second. A minute. Longer. And then the Gnoll child turned.

She ran away, crying. Mrsha tumbled down the hill, raced through the valley of flowers. Down, the little stone walkway. The door was waiting for her. She flung it open, raced through.

“—but I don’t know how to activate the garden! I thought I needed a garden—”

Erin Solstice was arguing with Grimalkin and Chaldion in the common room of the inn. Mrsha raced through the door and nearly smacked into her legs. The Gnoll stopped herself.

For a moment no one registered Mrsha. Heads turned. Everyone stared. Then someone shouted.

“Mrsha!”

Lyonette grabbed for Mrsha. She swung the Gnoll up.

“Mrsha!”

“What the—”

Grimalkin jumped. The [Sinew Magus] looked more spooked by Mrsha’s reappearance than Erin could ever remember seeing him. Mrsha had appeared out of nowhere! But Erin was already hugging Mrsha.

“Where were you?”

The little white Gnoll had tears in her eyes. But she was more confused by the exclamations than anything else. Lyonette squeezed, looking frantic.

“Where in the world…?”

“I didn’t see her come in! How did she—”

Grimalkin spun, staring for the point where Mrsha had entered from. But there was only blank wall, next to the bar. He turned back as a crowd engulfed Mrsha.

“She’s alright!”

“Is she hurt? She’s crying—”

“She smells like—”

“Everyone back! Give her some room!”

Relc exclaimed, pulling people out of the way. Bewildered, crying for different reasons, Mrsha saw all the adults crowding around her. Lyonette was tearful—and Mrsha, seeing everyone’s worried faces, realized how long she’d been away.

“I was so—so afraid—”

Lyonette’s eyes were flowing. And Mrsha began to cry again as well, not even knowing fully why, only that Lyonette was sad. She hugged Lyonette, trying to apologize silently. Grimalkin looked about, opened his mouth as he reached for Erin’s shoulder, and Saliss nudged him.

The [Sinew Magus] blinked, and fell silent. He let the [Innkeeper] hug Mrsha without interruption. Drassi rushed out of the room to find all the other searchers, and so did Palt and a few more.

It took a long time for everything to settle back down into normalcy. Explanations had to be given. Some people had still been looking, like the Halfseekers, and they had to come back and see Mrsha was well.

The little Gnoll was much chastised. She shrank down as she saw all the worried people who had to hug her. Lyonette nearly scolded her—until she saw how guilty Mrsha was.

And then they finally had to ask where Mrsha had gone. Grimalkin was the first to point it out. He looked around the crowded room, filled with all of Erin’s friends and acquaintances who’d come for her. For Mrsha.

Selys, Krshia, Olesm, Klbkch, Relc, Zevara, Krshia, Elirr, Palt, Montressa, Beza, Chaldion, Saliss, Jelaqua, Moore, Seborn, Bird—and the Antinium were missing since Klbkch had forbidden them from leaving the Hive. Octavia and Numbtongue were presumably in Celum, and people like Rufelt, Lasica, and Bevussa’s team and so on weren’t here. Or the Horns, or…

But there were so many. An [Innkeeper]’s strength was in her friends. And they’d come, at her call. Even him. Grimalkin paused. Then, he interrupted Lyonette, still holding Mrsha as if to never let go.

“Where did she go? And where did she come from?”

“That’s right. Mrsha, honey, where were you? We were so worried! Didn’t you hear us? How did you get past the Workers? Did you jump out the window?”

Lyonette was caught between being angry and gentle. Mrsha shrank, flinching at all the stares. Apista flew possessively over Mrsha’s head. Erin shielded Mrsha from some of the looks.

“No one’s angry, Mrsha. We were just worried. You were gone for two hours, but we’re all happy you’re back. But we’d like to know. We’re not angry, right?”

She turned her head. Everyone nodded hurriedly. Grimalkin uncrossed his arms as Saliss nudged him again.

“You are not good with children, are you?”

“What’s that got to do with my work?”

Grimalkin glowered at the [Alchemist]. He tried to smile at Mrsha. The Gnoll hid her face in Lyonette’s chest. The [Princess] glowered at Grimalkin.

“Maybe turn around.”

The Named Adventurer suggested cheerfully. Grimalkin blew out his cheeks.

“Let me try.”

Palt clicked his fingers. Mrsha looked up to see a happy, smiling crowd around her. The [Illusionist]’s spell even turned Grimalkin happy.

Affronted, the [Sinew Magus] immediately dispelled the magic.

“May we stop with the tricks? Where did she come from? I have excellent awareness, but she snuck up on me. Even most [Rogues] can’t do that.”

He nodded at Seborn. The Drowned Man raised an eyebrow and Jelaqua patted his shoulder.

“You can try later, Seborn.”

“Mrsha? Can you tell us where you were? We’re not mad.”

Lyonette whispered to Mrsha. The Gnoll nodded, wiping her eyes on the handkerchief Apista flew towards her. She immediately began signing with her paws.

“What? What is she doing?”

Chaldion wasn’t in the know about Mrsha. He stared at the Gnoll child.

“I think she’s mute.”

“What? That cute little Gnoll? I thought she was shy!”

Palt stared, nearly dropping his cigar he’d lit up in relief. Beza slapped his side.

“Don’t be an ass—”

“I didn’t know! How’s she supposed to tell us—”

“Shut up!”

Across the room, Watch Captain Zevara was standing with Relc and Klbkch. She was a bit out of place, but she’d come when Drassi had told her. The Watch Captain wasn’t a huge friend of the inn, but every instinct told her she should know what new mischief was brewing now. But her eyes were locked on Grand Strategist Chaldion of Pallass and Saliss of Lights. Even the Halfseekers were sneaking looks at them.

“Guardsman Relc?”

“Yes, Captain Z?”

Zevara ignored that.

“Why are three of Pallass’ biggest names in this inn? Klbkch?”

The Antinium shrugged. He was eying Chaldion too. Relc scratched at his neck spines.

“Dunno, Captain. They were here when we showed up. We were pursuing the Bearclaw lead—someone’s watching her, right?”

“Another Senior Guards pairing. So are they here to pay…Erin Solstice a visit?”

“Looks like it.”

Zevara gulped. She looked at Erin and Lyonette. The young woman was frowning.

“Wait, you were afraid, I got that. Lyonette wasn’t really mad, Mrsha. But go back. You did what?”

The little Gnoll’s personal sign language wasn’t by any means complete yet. She mimed moving with her paws, rotating them around. Then pointed at the door.

“You moved—through a door?”

Nod, nod. Mrsha then pointed at Erin. Everyone looked at Erin. Lyonette frowned.

“Mrsha, what do you mean? Erin? Erin’s door? You moved through Erin’s door?”

Another nod. Mrsha impatiently waved her paw at Erin. The slow adults took a moment.

“Psst. The [Garden of Sanctuary]. I knew it.”

Saliss stage-whispered. Grimalkin’s head turned and Chaldion’s eyes narrowed. Erin started.

“It was that? But how?”

“Mrsha, can you show us? There was no door when I entered the room. Just the window.”

Lyonette was pointing towards the stairs. She nearly carried Mrsha up there, but the Gnoll began squirming. She fought her way out of Lyonette’s grasp and landed on the floor. Then, Mrsha looked around. She seemed to be looking for something.

“Where’s the door, Mrsha?”

“It’s probably invisible.”

Palt frowned, smoking hard as he peered around the room. Grimalkin and some of the other [Mages] were casting similar spells and looking around. Saliss rolled his eyes.

“No. It’s probably—aha!”

He pointed. Everyone turned. Zevara leapt back with an oath. A door had appeared right behind her! It was set into the wall, next to one of the unlit fireplaces. And it had not been there a moment ago.

“What in the name of scales…”

Selys’ jaw dropped. Bird peered excitedly over her shoulder.

“That is a door. It was not there before. I remember it not being.”

Everyone clustered around, exclaiming. Mrsha proudly marched up to the door and pointed. Lyonette stared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] was slack-jawed, as taken aback as anyone.

“But how—?”

“A magic door! It’s like one of those doors at Wistram. Montressa, Beza, remember?”

Palt dropped his cigar in excitement. Montressa’s eyes were bulging. Beza was aghast.

“It can’t be! You can’t just—that’s a Skill? Wistram Academy is ancient! This [Innkeeper] has two magic doors?”

“It’s not the door. It’s the room. Isn’t it, Saliss? What’s the [Innkeeper]’s Skill?”

“[Garden of Sanctuary]. And I didn’t put it together that much earlier, oh, wise and mighty Chaldion. But it was fun waiting for the reveal, wasn’t it?”

The [Alchemist] grinned at Chaldion. Erin’s head turned for a second and she looked at Saliss. He’d known—? She was going to remember that! But everyone was staring at the door.

“You just saw it, Mrsha? Why?”

Relc was pulling at the door, and swearing. It wasn’t opening for him. Mrsha was nodding, trying to explain.

“You were worried? Oh, Mrsha. I wasn’t that mad. It was only a cake! Erin can make another! You were only naughty for trying to get some frosting! That was what it was, wasn’t it? You silly little—and this appeared?”

The [Princess] hugged Mrsha again. Abashed, Mrsha nodded. Relc glared at the door.

“I can’t get it open! Klb, help me out.”

The Antinium grabbed the door handle. He and Relc both pulled, but the door refused to open. They stared at Mrsha. She stared back. That hadn’t happened with her.

“It must not open unless you’re in trouble?”

Moore delicately pulled at the door as the two [Senior Guardsmen] stood back. He couldn’t budge it either. Palt was nodding.

“A secret door that only appears with certain conditions. Wistram has a few. Obnoxious. There’s one that only appears when both moons are full—you can get locked inside and that is how some students die—”

“It’s a magic safe room. Handy for this inn. Let me try to get in.”

Seborn appeared by the door. He was inspecting it with some of the [Mages]. Everyone else was looking at Erin.

She’d been quiet in the face of the sudden door. But not still. Erin was…vibrating. Now, it burst out of her. She threw up her hands, startling the heck out of everyone around her.

“The Room of Requirement! I’m Hogwarts!”

“What?”

Selys stared at Erin. Chaldion made a little note—he had a quill and ink out. Erin waved her hands, trying to explain.

“It’s awesome! I have a secret garden? How come I didn’t see it? Does it only appear when you want it? Or maybe if you’re in danger—”

“Mrsha clearly summoned it because she knew it was there. It must have appeared due to her stress. But it’s not opening. Maybe if Mrsha tries to open it again?”

Montressa’s postulation was correct. The others stood back as Mrsha walked up to the door. She stood on two legs and pulled it open. The door swung open as easily as anything.

“What? But I pulled on it!”

Relc was outraged. He ran for the door as Erin stared inside—

And the door closed. Relc slammed into the door. Mrsha, already inside, stared back in alarm. She pushed the door open and saw Relc recoiling and swearing.

“What the—”

Zevara instinctively reached for Mrsha through the open door. But as her claw tried to touch the Gnoll, the Gnoll vanished. Solid wood appeared.

“Mrsha!”

The door was still there. And as soon as Zevara snatched her claw back, the Gnoll reappeared, looking very alarmed. Lyonette rushed forwards. She had no problem opening the door and holding Mrsha.

“Aha. Definitely a trick.”

Palt nodded to himself. He stared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] looked around.

“What, me?”

“It’s your door. I think no one gets in except the ones you allow.”

“Not even me, Erin.”

Selys, put out, was trying the door, but it wouldn’t budge. She looked at Erin. No one could open the door. Not Drassi, Ishkr, Krshia—the door swung open as Lyonette stared at them.

“What’s the matter?”

“No one can use Erin’s door but you two.”

Moore gave Erin a hurt look. The [Innkeeper] turned red.

“But I didn’t know it even existed! I didn’t block anyone—”

“Then it must be set to the people you really trust.”

Montressa looked at Mrsha and Lyonette. Erin paused.

“Oh. In that case—one second, Lyonette?”

She reached for the door and closed it in Lyonette’s face. Then, Erin turned.

“Bird? Open the door.”

Everyone turned. Bird, who had been watching with interest, trotted over. He put one hand on the door and swung it open. Very pleased, the Worker waved at Lyonette and Mrsha and then turned.

“Yay. I am family.”

Klbkch’s head swiveled. Erin smiled at Bird. Then she looked around.

“I think Numbtongue could do this if he were here. Which reminds me—Celum—”

She nearly backed up, but half a dozen hands pulled her back.

“He’s fine! Probably! Can you let us in, Erin?”

“Um—”

“Just wish it. I bet you can change who’s allowed in versus who can open the door too.”

Saliss slyly gyrated over to Erin’s left. Zevara and Selys backed up fast. They were also not used to a nude Drake. Erin looked at Saliss.

“Just—”

“Don’t take too long. Let me in. You know who’s allowed in already, and who can open the door.”

“Oh.”

Erin closed her eyes. When she opened them, Saliss reached for the door. It was still ajar, but the Drake still put his hand on the doorknob. He pulled, and nothing happened. He sighed, giving Erin a betrayed look. Then he sauntered on through the doorway.

“Well, at least you trust me enough to let me in.”

“Hey!”

Lyonette backed up from Saliss, covering Mrsha’s eyes. She glared as the Drake, delighted, leapt about.

“What a wonderful place! What’s that? Mushrooms! Don’t mind if I do!”

He ran off. The others in the inn immediately tried to copy Saliss. Zevara, grunting, found she couldn’t move the door an inch. She gave Erin a cool, unsurprised look, and marched through.

It was going to be a test of friendship. Erin hadn’t concentrated on individual faces. Like Saliss had said, she knew. Palt, Montressa, and Beza all couldn’t move the door. Only Palt was disappointed, but they could all go through.

Actually—Montressa and Beza slammed into the wall, but Erin let them in after they looked truly hurt. And most of the others could enter.

Selys, Krshia, Elirr, the Halfseekers but for Ulinde—all of them could enter and use the door. The Selphid was allowed in, but not with access to the door. Neither was Grimalkin or Chaldion.

The true surprise was Klbkch, Olesm, and Relc. Olesm and Klbkch couldn’t open the door. They looked at Erin. And Klbkch’s face was blank. But Olesm’s was—Erin looked at him.

“I’m sorry.”

Was it Bird? And for Olesm, was it—Lism? His distrust of the Antinium? Erin had no answer. Silently, the Drake [Strategist] walked through the door, head bowed. Erin looked at the door of the [Garden of Sanctuary]. It was telling her more about herself than even she knew.

Relc was last, of all people. He’d hung back. And now, he put one claw on the door’s edge. He hesitated. And pulled.

The door swung open easily. Relc turned to look at Erin. She blinked at him, and then smiled. The Drake’s eyes widened. He opened his mouth to crow at Klbkch and Olesm’s backs—

And then he stopped. Relc closed his mouth, and looked at Erin. He ducked his head and entered the garden silently. But he looked happier than Erin could remember seeing him in a while. Erin Solstice stared at the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary]. She heard voices from within, exclamations. But she herself hadn’t stepped into the doorway.

Mrsha had been afraid. In tears. There was something in the garden. She hadn’t been able to tell the others what. It was hers. But Erin—hesitated. Then she put her hand on the door, opened it, and walked forwards.



—-



Erin’s friends and acquaintances stood in the [Garden of Sanctuary] and stared. They stared at the plants, the different sections of the garden. And at Erin.

The [Innkeeper] stared around as well. The [Garden of Sanctuary] wasn’t a massive place, but it easily held everyone who’d come through. Indeed, it was bigger than the [Grand Theatre] which a few visitors had entered, bemused by the total absence of anyone in the inn.

Sunlight shone down from above. And the meadow was large enough for Mrsha, Jelaqua, and Relc to run about in. Selys had given up and was lying in the bed of flowers, staring up at the sky.

“Incredible. Magical fog. I’ve seen similar effects. But this is a lesser [Gardener]’s Skill right here.”

Grimalkin, and the Wistram [Mages] were stalking the fog rolling across one section of the garden. Krshia and Elirr were sniffing the acacia tree.

“Chandrarian.”

Chaldion poked at the grass with his walking stick. He looked up, narrowing his eyes at the center of the dome.

“That’s Liscor’s skies. Does that mean this place is in the inn? Could that be a weak point?”

Zevara frowned up at the opening in the ceiling. Olesm shrugged.

“Maybe. It’s high up, but—hello? Can I get some help climbing up there?”

“Let me.”

Moore walked over. He and Seborn had been inspecting the pond. The [Green Mage] tapped the ground.

“[Earthen Spire].”

A spire of stone rose under Zevara and Olesm’s feet. They slowly rose upwards, towards the hole in the ceiling.

“Hey! Don’t ruin my new garden!”

Erin shouted at Moore. The half-Giant looked abashed.

“Don’t worry, Miss Solstice. I’ll return it to normal. But they wanted—”

Everyone looked up as Zevara and Olesm, perching carefully on the stone spire, reached the top of the dome. Zevara waved at Moore and bellowed.

“Keep it steady!”

She reached up, pulling herself over the edge as Olesm held her steady, reaching up to see what lay beyond the dome—

And vanished. Moore’s eyes widened with alarm. Erin shouted in panic—and then paused.

“Wait a second! They’re on—”

Zevara and Olesm blinked as they found themselves on the roof of the inn. Olesm was clutching Zevara’s legs and she stared about. A group of Antinium Workers stared at the two Drakes, who’d appeared out of nowhere.

“Well, that settles that. It’s a secret room. Lets in sunlight, probably rain—but you can’t enter it any other way. It would be silly to have a weak spot like that.”

When Zevara and Olesm returned, Palt nodded wisely. Some of the others had come back too. Lyonette had pursued Saliss about the garden and Klbkch was covered in plant matter.

“The tropical area contains a number of plants indigenous to Baleros, but nothing harmful. Some thorns in plants, but nothing magical or dangerous.”

The Antinium Revalantor sheathed his blades. Saliss had a basket.

“And I’ve found a lot of mundane plants! I suppose it was too much to ask for something crazy. But this is nearly as good as a smaller garden in Oteslia! Lots of good stuff to eat!”

He was chewing on a mushroom. Grimalkin slowly nodded.

“A useful Skill. I’ve checked the entirety of the garden. Let’s appraise how strong that door is, shall we? The garden is clearly a secondary effect to the sanctuary aspect for now. It has potential, as a sealed room—I’d have preferred a training area, but perhaps it can be converted—”

He marched out. Erin, bemused, saw the others leaving too, having had their fill for a moment. She stared at Mrsha and Lyonette, Bird, Relc, and a few others.

“Didn’t he see it?”

Erin pointed up at the hill. Grimalkin and the others had never gone up there. But Relc, Selys, Krshia—those who remained could see it. Mrsha clung to Lyonette’s legs. She pointed up at the hill, remembering. And her paw shook.

The others looked at each other. Bird, Selys, Relc, Erin, Lyonette, Mrsha, Krshia, Elirr—the Halfseekers had gone with Ulinde, keeping up the ruse. Slowly, Erin nodded.

“Show us, Mrsha.”

They walked up to the meadow, and higher. Erin saw the hill, and the tree. A lovely tree, sitting in the grass. But she didn’t see the bench, as Mrsha had at first.

Instead, the table was waiting. And it was there. Erin froze. Lyonette stared, and dropped Mrsha. The Gnoll slid down and looked. Elirr recoiled, and Bird and Relc stopped.

Krshia had frozen. Slowly, Erin looked at her. And then Mrsha. And then she saw the others. They appeared, when you thought of them. They were always there, waiting for you.

Mrsha had seen one. But now, with the presence of others, with Erin, more were there. On that hill, waiting.

Erin Solstice had been amazed at her garden. She had taken in the wonder of this separate world, been excited and awed at the possibilities. Grateful, relieved at what her Skill might mean. Impressed at the power she had been given.

But she stared at this. And Erin Solstice only now took in the true meaning of her [Garden of Sanctuary].

Mrsha stared up at Erin. It was just a room. Grimalkin had been impressed, up to a point. But he had regarded the garden as no more impressive than a miniature world, like the ones he could make. The strength of it might have been beyond him, as he was finding, but he had not been impressed with the basic nature of it.

And yet—this Skill, this garden had been built of her. Erin. Shyly, Mrsha looked up at Erin. Shyly, with a bit of wonder. Because for the first time, she sensed something of what Erin hid. More than simple power.

Erin stared at what sat at the wooden table. Krshia was shaking. And Erin’s eyes filled with tears. She bawled, then. Wept.

Because there it was. Waiting for her.

The garden’s secret, a reflection of her heart.

Proof, that she had never truly forgotten.

Statues.

A wooden table sat in the grass. And some chairs. It was a round table, like the one that Erin’s old inn had held. The exact replica of one. But it was not unoccupied.

Someone sat at the table. A Gnoll. He was young, but strong. And his fur seemed to move in the wind. But it was just a statue. Carved of stone, but capturing every detail of him as he had lived. The little Gnoll approached him.

Brunkr stared down at Mrsha with a pleased smile on his face. He sat, on a seat made of wood, captured forever as he experienced his first bite of cake. Mrsha remembered that moment. She reached for him, touched his paw.

Cool stone. It was just a statue. A memory. But it existed. It was…hers. Erin cried. And Krshia looked down at her nephew.

“Brunkr.”

She slowly sat, pulling out a chair. Speechless. Looking at him. Mrsha wiped at her eyes. She was crying again. But he was smiling.

Then, Mrsha looked around and stopped. There was something else in the grass. A ring of statues. She stared. More statues, more faces of—of the dead.

But they had not been there when she left. Mrsha tried to tell Erin and the others that. The Antinium statues were new. But no one was listening.

They were all lost. Lost, in a memory. Relc leaned on his spear as he watched Bird walk forwards. The Antinium stared at the statues, nearly two-dozen in total.

They stood in a circle, facing outwards. The chess club. Workers who had died against the undead, fighting Skinner. Erin looked at them.

“Knight.”

There was no difference in their figures. No difference at all, but they were different. Erin went over to one. She stared at him, at the stone which made up his body. As true to her memory as…

There were only four gaps in the circle. Bird stood in one of them. He turned his head.

“I belong here.”

That was all he said. The Worker stood still, looking left and right. The Workers stood, their backs to the empty center. Erin belonged there, on a night from hell.

“Oh.”

Selys was sitting in the grass. She stared at a group laughing at a table. A group of adventurers. Laughing, sitting in a circle with two gaps.

The Horns of Hammerad were looking at their leader. But he was gone. Gerial was busy trying to drink from a mug as he looked sideways. But Ceria Springwalker was missing. Yet, it was them.

Memory. But unlike fire, the statues were still. And Erin’s head was blank. She looked at Krshia. The Gnoll was leaning against her nephew.

Relc and Elirr had left. They knew no one among the statues. Not as well as the others. Bird just stood with the other Workers, staring ahead. The hilltop was silent.

Ulrien stood alone, greatsword in hand. Mrsha looked up at him and then hid in Lyonette’s arms. The [Princess] stared at another statue. A Drake, who stood in the silence. A [General] who had broken the tide itself.

Zel Shivertail. Lyonette wept. Selys stopped, as still as time. Erin looked at him. She turned her head.

She saw so many statues. Her friends had only a few they could name. But Erin Solstice saw them all. Goblins, Antinium. People. Each one in vivid detail.

It hurt. More than anything. But it was also a relief. Because it was proof that she had known them. That they had mattered. Lyonette gathered up Mrsha and hugged her.

Krshia hadn’t moved. Neither had Bird. He stood, as still as the statues. When Erin came over to him, he shook his head.

“I will stay here, please. Just for a while.”

He stared at the others. Bishop, Emanuel, Milner-Barry—all the others, who had named themselves after chess players from Erin’s world, or pieces. Bird spoke slowly.

“Pawn should see this. And Anand, and Garry, and Belgrade. They must see it, I think. It will make them sad. And happy.”

Erin couldn’t bear it. She went over to the Worker as he stood with his friends.

“I’m so sorry—”

She hugged him, tears running down her face. One of Bird’s arms gently touched Erin’s back.

“We will protect you until the end. Did you not hear us the first time?”

She looked up at him. Bird stood among the others. And he seemed taller than they were. Time had stopped for them. This was but a memory. But from them he had come. And all that Bird was came from this moment. He turned his head up.

“This is a nice place for them to sleep. Better than Pawn’s heaven.”

Erin Solstice left. She walked across the hill.

A nameless Worker sat at a chess table, waiting for her to play. She sat by his table, and remembered. And when she left, in time, with all the others, he remained.

Safe. In a place without harm. A promise as strong as her Skill.

Mrsha left Brunkr behind. Krshia was just sitting there. Elirr murmured to Mrsha as Relc stared from the base of the hill.

“I’ll stay. You go.”

The little Gnoll went down the hill and lay in the meadow with flowers. In time, the others came down. Some had cried. Some, like Bird had no tears. But they were not broken by what they had seen. If anything—Mrsha looked at Erin and thought she looked stronger. As if you could throw a mountain at her. And it wouldn’t crush her, because she’d lived through worse.

“Even my Skill are jerks to me.”

Erin smiled and wiped her eyes. But she was smiling. And there it was. A hilltop, waiting for anyone who wanted to rest there a while. Mrsha didn’t know if she could bear seeing Brunkr again. Perhaps, the next time she went up there, it would just be the bench. But he’d be waiting, for whenever she wanted to see him.

Mrsha had not seen the other faces precious to her. She longed for just a picture of Urksh’s face. Of all the others in the Stone Spears tribe. But this was Erin’s place. And despite her tears, Mrsha was jealous of her. Just a tiny bit.

For the proof of her feelings. But that was the power of her Skill. And the kind of person Erin was.

Mrsha wanted to level up.



—-



The others hadn’t noticed the interlude without Erin and the others. Perhaps they guessed, on seeing red eyes. But no one would talk about it. And the others had been busy.

“What have you done to my inn?”

Erin stared down at the scorched wood around the door. Montressa blushed.

“Just some unlocking spells—sorry, it’s not permanent.”

“The door vanishes if we don’t look at it. Only someone who can open the door can bring it back. And it can appear wherever there’s space.”

Olesm was making his own set of notes. Palt and Grimalkin were still trying to magically unlock the door.

“It’s not going to work. It’s a Skill. You’re using magic on something that doesn’t answer to you. You can’t force it!”

Saliss danced around the two. Grimalkin looked sourly at the shut door.

“Let’s find out if that’s true.”

He put one hand on the doorknob. Erin blinked at him. The [Sinew Magus] heaved, but the door didn’t move.

“Told you. I couldn’t get it open with Klbkch. You’re not gonna get it open, Grimalkin.”

Relc advised the Drake. Grimalkin ignored him. The [Sinew Magus] changed his leverage, put both hands on the doorknob and heaved.

Grimalkin’s muscles bulged. His eyes opened wide. Mrsha saw the magic burning bright in him. Brighter than anyone, even Pisces, or Moore, or the others.

The door refused to budge. Grimalkin growled. And then he gave up. Panting a bit, he stared at the door. After a second, Mrsha padded over. The door was actually slightly ajar. She nudged it open with her head.

No one else spoke. Laughter would have been a bit cruel. Grimalkin turned around.

“So it won’t open. How sturdy is it?”

“Let me try.”

Relc rubbed his claws. He could open the door, but as Mrsha scampered back, he took a run up and leapt.

“[Relc Kick]! Ow!”

He hit the door like an avalanche, but nothing happened. Rubbing his foot and swearing, Relc motioned.

“Anyone else want a try? Hold on—my spear! I’ll poke it!”

He raced off. Saliss brightened.

“You mean, we can take turns trying to destroy the door? Is there a prize if we succeed?”

“No need. I’m going to test the limits on this Skill.”

Grimalkin stepped up again. He looked annoyed. Relc halted as the [Sinew Magus] lowered his center of gravity and glared at the door. He made one fist at his waist.

“[Bound Spell: Siege Fireball]. [Salamander’s Skin]. [Lion’s Strength]. [Dual Binding: Valmira’s Comet]. [Haste]. [Thunder Step].”

“Whoa! Whoa, whoa whoa—”

Relc backed up fast. Everyone else did likewise. Erin shouted at Grimalkin.

“Hey! That’s my door you’re punching! What if you go through a wall?”

“We just renovated! Magus Grimalkin—the wall’s not that strong!”

Lyonette was also shouting at Grimalkin from a safe distance. The Drake turned his head.

“I’ll compensate you for all damages. Put up a barrier, Mage Montressa.”

“But—”

Too late. Grimalkin was very angry. Mrsha hid behind Moore as the Drake took one breath. He narrowed his eyes, stepped in, and punched the center of the door.

Multiple spells activated at once. Mrsha saw Grimalkin zoom forwards, and heard an explosion as his kick-off actually cracked the floorboards. She saw a bloom of fire, blocked by one of Montressa’s shields. At the same time, the force of the fireball and the other spell created a shockwave that tore up the floorboards around the door.

And the door itself? Grimalkin hit it with a blow stronger than the one that had made the Wyvern Lord back up.

The entire inn shook. Erin staggered—everyone stumbled, but she reeled for one moment. She fell down as Klbkch and Olesm caught her.

“Ooh.”

“The floor!”

Lyonette cried out. Grimalkin appeared in a cloud of smoke. He stepped back—and his face was beyond sour.

The door had vanished sometime after the punch and the cloud of smoke. And beyond it—

The wall wasn’t even damaged. Grimalkin stared down at the knuckles of his fist. He’d split and burned his scales from the impact. He’d done more damage to the floorboards. The [Sinew Magus] stomped away from the spot he’d hit.

“Clearly the Skill is tied to the structure of the inn. In theory, I could break it. I’ll pay for the floorboards. Grand Strategist, your thoughts?”

He stared at Chaldion. The old Drake was rubbing at his earholes.

“My eardrums hurt. Magus, a silencing spell would have not gone amiss.”

The old [Strategist] sighed. Then he looked at Erin.

“That defense is…Saliss, what level is she?”

Everyone looked at the Named Adventurer. Saliss paused innocently.

“Who, me? Why would I know something like that?”

Chaldion’s eyes narrowed. Saliss looked at Erin.

“Did you know you can use a spell called [Appraisal] and read someone’s level and Skills?”

“Huh? But wait—hey! Hold on, isn’t that private?”

Erin’s eyes went round. Beza, Grimalkin, and Palt all stared at Erin. All three [Mages] began muttering—Bezale went for a scroll. Chaldion was reaching for another eye.

Saliss was faster. He already had something in his claws. Now, he threw it at Erin.

“It’s dangerous to walk around with clothes. Take this!”

Erin caught a ring. It was a ruby mixed with what looked like gold—or what people thought gold should look like. A black, faintly luminescent sigil had been traced in the center, where a gemstone might go. It looked like a crossed-out eye, stylized. Erin saw the other [Mages] casting and slipped it on her finger, next to Ilvriss’ ring.

“Ancestors damn it, Saliss!”

Grimalkin roared in outrage. Chaldion stared at Erin, his fake eye shining, and then rounded on the [Alchemist].

“Miss Solstice, if you’d take off that ring for one moment. Or tell us—”

“Hey! My Skills are mine! Don’t peek!”

Erin protectively covered her body, as if that was what Palt and the others were looking at. Chaldion had stepped over to Saliss. He poked his cane at Saliss.

“Tell us what you read. This is not a game, you insubordinate child.”

“Beat me in a dance-off and I’ll tell you. Anyways, why didn’t any of you try that earlier? Seems like you underestimated Miss Erin. What a blunder for Pallass’ Grand Strategist!”

The Drake’s face was incredibly smug. Erin was staring at her ring.

“Wait. Is this expensive?”

“Nah, nah. Wait, I mean, a bit. Truegold and ruby. Now I don’t have one!”

Chaldion immediately focused on Saliss. The Drake put on a duplicate of the ring he’d given Erin.

“Just kidding! Spares!”

The [Grand Strategist] tapped his cane twice, and then slashed at Saliss’ legs. Erin saw the glowing magical spear at the tip of the cane, but Saliss dodged it.

“Violence against a citizen of Pallass! Help! Where’s the Watch?”

He fled, laughing his tail off. Chaldion glared after him. He turned to Erin.

“You wouldn’t care to tell us what Skills you have, Miss Solstice? Or what level?”

Everyone was looking at Erin now. She blushed.

“What? Nah, it’s nothing big…”

Chaldion stared pointedly at the wall Grimalkin had failed to damage. Erin hesitated.

“It’s my Skills. Hey, Saliss! I don’t owe you anything for the ring, do I?”

The [Alchemist] poked his head out from behind Moore. The half-Giant was gently swatting, trying to make Saliss stop circling him, but the Drake was too nimble. Saliss eyed Erin.

“…Can I have one of the flowers Xif keeps bragging about?”

Erin hesitated.

“No?”

She expected Saliss to haggle or use a Skill, but the Named Adventurer just shrugged.

“Fine. We’ll call it even for the magic fire. It’s still burning, by the way. Bit expensive to upkeep, but it’s worth it. Can I have some blue fire too?”

“Wait, you still have that?”

“Sure do. About the depressing flames? No?”

Erin looked around. Grimalkin was shaking his head.

“I heard rumors, but this is incredible. Has he always been like that?”

He looked at Chaldion. The [Grand Strategist] looked like he was going to have a heart attack.

“He revels in it. Ignore him and he’ll leave. Liscor may well have to suffer him, come to that.”

The look he gave Zevara was sympathetic. The Watch Captain paled as Saliss walked over and grinned at her.

“So, what’s the law on nudity in Liscor?”

Erin Solstice decided to ignore Saliss. She looked around—

And the door to the [Garden of Sanctuary] was there. Closer to her, next to the kitchen’s door. It could be anywhere.

“It’s powerful, but localized to your inn. And what good is a door in a sudden attack? Against the Crelers it would have helped, but it’s situational. For the durability, I’ll give it close to a perfect grade. For your level…perhaps not. There are other Skills.”

Grimalkin folded his arms. He’d cooled down a bit. Erin looked at him.

“There are better Skills?”

“For a capstone level? Yes. If you’d care to furnish me with a list of your Skills and your exact class and level—which is probably Level 40—I’d be able to evaluate your efficiency. You have a mixed bag of Skills, owing to your own interests and focuses. However, as an [Innkeeper] you lack a lot of more widely applicable Skills in favor of unique ones.”

The muscular Drake sighed. He looked at the magic door.

“I’ve heard of people gaining one powerful Skill at a capstone level—or as many as six more mundane ones. It does depend on chance, as much as intent. But I think there’s someone you should meet to understand what you lack in your class.”

“Who?”

“Pallass’ best [Innkeeper]. He runs The Noble’s Fancy. 2nd Floor, so you’ve likely never seen him. I’ll write you a letter of introduction. He might inform your weaknesses.”

Grimalkin nodded at the door again. Erin frowned at him.

“I think it’s a great Skill. It’s the one I wanted.”

“But can it protect anyone? If you need to open it, if you need to be conscious of the danger…”

Olesm was frowning, seeing the same problem. Erin looked at him. And then at her door. And she had a thought.

“Maybe there’s more you don’t know. More no one knows. Maybe it’ll get stronger. I didn’t use to be able to find people with my other Skill—”

She saw Chaldion poised to take a note and sighed.

“—But I think it’s more than just a door. Look.”

She walked backwards towards a wall. The door had vanished. Erin spread her arms. And the room watched. Erin smiled. She concentrated. Took a step backwards.

And the garden was there. The door swung closed as the others stared. Erin looked around the grassy hill. She turned.

“Kitchen.”

The door swung open. And Erin Solstice walked out of her kitchen. Seborn jumped as he leaned against the doorframe. He stared at her.

“It’s based off my magical door. Maybe—if I didn’t have the magic door, I’d never have gotten this Skill.”

Erin looked back at the garden’s door as it swung closed. She looked around the common room.

Grimalkin and Olesm were staring. They’d gone speechless for a moment. Erin looked at Mrsha. The little Gnoll looked delighted at the possibilities. But everyone else was speechless. And Erin realized she might have overplayed her hand. She’d shown them what Mrsha had seen. A glimpse of power. The [Innkeeper] hesitated. She spread her arms.

“Do you know what this means? I can go to the bathroom without having to walk downstairs.”

She smiled. No one laughed. They looked at her, and Erin let her arms hang loose. She sighed. And then she looked around.

“Lyonette? Mrsha? Those jerks are still boycotting us in Celum. I’m gonna go shout at them. Let’s go find Numbtongue. He’ll be safer here.”

She reached out. Mrsha ran over and grabbed Erin’s hand. The [Innkeeper] smiled as she held Mrsha’s paw. And the little Gnoll knew she’d be safe here. From the Raskghar, from Facestealer. From anyone.

It was a small, but blessed thing. As the guests of Erin’s inn marveled, or wondered, a little bee flew through an open doorway upstairs. Into a garden. And she was happy.

Because there were lots of flowers.



—-



This was what happened to Numbtongue. At the same time as Erin and Lyonette were searching for Mrsha, he’d gone to Octavia’s shop in Celum. His conclusion, founded off Pyrite’s intellect, had told him it was a likely place for Mrsha to be.

He was of course, wrong. And at that moment, the Watch had surrounded the [Alchemist]’s shop to confiscate the magical door. That was a separate matter, but the Hobgoblin did not, as a rule of thumb, like Humans with weapons.

So he’d fled. Octavia’s shop had a backdoor, because what self-respecting [Alchemist] didn’t have a second bolt-hole to flee an explosion—or a mob angry about said explosion? The Hobgoblin had raced out into the street ahead of Celum’s Watch surrounding the shop.

Humans had screamed or fled of course, but they’d heard of a Hobgoblin so he didn’t get too much of a stir after his initial appearance. The [Bard] had hurried away for a place to hide, or at least figure out what was going on before making a move—

And he’d run into the [Farmer].



—-



The [Farmer] was a bit of a thug. He had scars, a very lewd tattoo over one arm, and more on his chest and other spots. However, in deference to Celum and the sensibilities of others, he’d chosen a long-sleeved tunic as he drove his wares to market earlier this morning.

He had a rather nice wagon. Not a huge one; it didn’t need to be. A large bag of holding at his side was doing as much work as the wagon itself, but bags of holding had limits, so a lot of mundane produce was piled up in the back under a tarp. The two draft horses were carrying the wagon through Celum’s gates.

There was, of course, a small line. Celum had only some roads devoted to wagons, and the [Guards] were doing a cursory check at the gates—just to make sure nothing illegal was going through. Just asking questions with a truth stone, really. The [Farmer] was impatiently waiting and drinking from a flask at his hip when one of the wagons rolled forwards.

Normally, all things being equal, he’d have ordered his horses to move up and gone forwards one more space in line. However, a rather fancy little cart decided to pull in front of the [Farmer] with the tattoos before he could do so. A [Merchant], seeing the gap, had ordered her small escort forwards.

Some of the other good and gentle folk accustomed to doing business in Celum grumbled at seeing the rude move, but a [Merchant] could be trouble, oh yes indeed. Better to just take it and slight the woman behind her back.

However, as it turned out, the [Farmer] with the tattoos was neither good, nor gentle. He also had a temper.

“Oi!”

The man leapt from his wagon and strode forwards. Two of the [Caravan Guards] tried to stop him as he strode around the front of the wagon. They had horses, and weapons. But the [Merchant] herself waved them off. It would not do to cause a fuss with the [Guards] so close ahead.

“Is something the matter, my good man? How can I help you? [Merchant] Geala at your service.”

She sounded quite innocently perplexed. The [Farmer] glared up at her as he strode over.

“You cut in line. Get your wagon out of the way.”

He jerked his thumb at her travelling cart, a rather splendid one that had a full-vehicle enchantment to contain more than it seemed. Merchant Geala blinked at the unfamiliarly aggressive tone in the man’s voice.

“I’m sorry, sir. I simply spotted an opening and well, here we are. I’m simply a humble [Merchant] and you know how we are. It’s one position in line, sir. Nothing to be worked up over?”

She had a pleasant demeanor, and a twinkle of ‘oh, what can you do?’ in her eyes that suggested this was all a bit of a misunderstanding. Live and let live! But the [Farmer] had a look in his eyes that suggested he didn’t find being cut in line humorous.

“Oh, is that so? Well, I’m just a humble [Farmer], miss. Going to sell my wares at the market and menial crap like that. Don’t mind me. If I had a cap I’d doff it at your fat ass, but there we are. Move your wagon now.”

“…Excuse me?”

Geala’s face went a bit slack. The [Farmer] pointed.

“Back of the line. You heard me.”

The [Merchant] did not like the tone of his voice. Neither did her [Guards], which, if it hadn’t been mentioned, did number eight in total. With armor. And weapons? And three were glaring at the [Farmer]? He didn’t seem to notice.

“Well—I’m terribly sorry you feel this way, but I see we’re nearly at the gates. So I’m afraid I’ll have to decline, sir. Allow me to buy you a drink later.”

Geala tried to pretend the angry [Farmer] wasn’t there. He glared at her.

“So that’s how it is?”

“I’m terribly sorry, sir.”

Politely, the [Merchant] stared ahead. Two wagons left before she got into the city. But the trick was just to ignore the man’s ire. If he cursed her out, her escort would deal with it. You had to know what you could get away with in the [Merchant] business.

And indeed, the [Farmer] took one look at the [Merchant] sitting in the driver’s seat and spat before walking back to his wagon. The [Caravan Guards] saw him off and the [Merchant] smiled.

She was smug. And rude. And oh yes, she had cut in line. But it had to be said that the [Farmer] wasn’t exactly a model of patience. Or sobriety. Or even-temperedness. A few of the other wagon-drivers had recognized them and they were signaling to him not to—

Well, too late. The [Farmer] casually strolled after Geala’s wagon as it began to move. The female [Merchant] didn’t see what happened, but she felt and heard the wagon wheel crack.

The wagon stopped and her two mares reared in alarm. The [Merchant], swearing, twisted in her seat as one of the [Guards] raced around back to see what had happened. Geala just heard it was a broken axel—very strange since she kept her wagon in perfect repair—when she saw a wagon rolling past her.

The [Farmer] with the tattoos grinned as he moved past Geala. She stared at him.

“Terrible shame and all that. What can you do? Should’ve taken it slow.”

He grinned—he had two silver teeth. And spat. A bit of it hit the side of Geala’s painted wagon.

Miss Geala’s Auspicious Assortments.

Then he rolled over to the gates. The [Guards] clearly knew him, from the wary way they treated him. Geala stared after him. The [Head Caravan Guard] winced. This was clearly coming out of his pay.

“Who is that?”

She snapped at one of the other drivers rolling past her. One, who’d stopped to offer some help, winced. The man waved his hat apologetically in the direction of the ill-tempered [Farmer].

“Er—that would be Farmer Strongheart. Miss Geala, I really wouldn’t provoke him.”

“Me? Provoke him?”



—-



That was this morning. Later in the day, around the time a Hobgoblin was exiting Octavia’s shop in a hurry, said [Farmer] was talking with a [Trader].

He had a cutlass. And Farmer Strongheart was leaning on the [Trader]’s wagon with an expression that said he was about to use it.

“So you’re telling me you’re not going to buy my wares, is that right?”

“Please, Mister Strongheart. I’m just a [Trader]—”

“And I’m a humble [Farmer] selling my wares at the market. You have a problem with that?”

Wailant Strongheart adjusted his tunic, and one of his tattoos shone blue and black in the sunlight. They were colorful tattoos, and he had any number of them. One was of a sea monster, the other he’d been banned from showing about in public—it was an odd choice for a [Farmer], especially since tattoos were seen as vulgar in a number of cultures.

It was something you’d see more in, oh, say, [Sailors] visiting ports. Or, if you wanted to go the other way, [Pirates].

But Wailant Strongheart wasn’t a [Pirate]. He was a friendly [Farmer], who was not towering over the shorter [Trader] with a glint in his eyes.

“You buy the Sage’s Grass every time you come here. I’ve got twenty of ‘em right here. Bag of holding. What’s the hold up? I came here for you, my man. Not to offload a bunch of vegetables and crap!”

He jerked his thumb at the wagon being offloaded. Farmer Strongheart was one of the higher-level [Farmers] around Celum. Of course, there were smaller [Farmers], but a few big farms could provide enough food for an entire region. However, Wailant’s farm was also known for a specialty crop it grew.

Sage’s Grass. The famous magical plant was sought after by [Mages], [Alchemists], and generally any class that worked with magic, including, yes, [Tattooists]. It was a [Trader]’s profit. But the nervous [Trader] was shaking his head.

“It’s the dispute between the nobility and Lady Reinhart, sir. She’s put on a [Trade War] with all of ‘em—nothing goes through her lands Lady Reinharts doesn’t want. But the other nobles are retaliating. Alchemical ingredients, ores—anything bound for Invrisil is bound to searches and stops. Confiscation or high tariffs at the very least if I go through the wrong lands—and they’re patrolling all the trade routes. It’s just not worth my time!”

“So you’re not going to buy from me? Is that it? And you expect me to just take that? I have a living to make! You think we’ll keep doing business if you decide to run out on me when it’s a bit hot?”

Wailant leaned over the man. The [Trader] leaned back.

“I’m just trying to make a living! Mister Strongarm—”

“Strongheart.”

“—It’s no one’s fault but the nobility’s! When the trade war is over, I’d be delighted to buy your goods. But for now—”

“Hah! You won’t get Sage’s Grass from my farms! Not now, and not even if prices are tripled and you’re the only [Trader] in a thousand miles!”

Wailant shoved the man back hard. Disgusted, he turned and stomped away.

“Mister Strongheart!”

“I don’t deal with people who try to screw me over. I don’t remember your name, but I never forget a face. Got it? You lot! Finish unloading my stuff! I’m off!”

The [Farmer] stormed over to his wagon. The [Laborers] hauling his goods began to work twice as fast. One of them leapt off the wagon with four sacks, two on each shoulder. Lifting Skills. Wailant waited, back turned to the indecisive [Trader]. He pretended to be checking his horses.

“Now let’s see if that sniveling coward changes his mind.”

The [Farmer] muttered to himself. He was a fearsome fellow, Wailant Strongheart. Not to be trifled with. A former [Pirate], they said.

And ‘they’ were right. But for all his fearsome reputation, Wailant was usually on the right side of the law. He had black hair, green eyes, and stubble on his face—along with a circular scar on one side of his jaw. His shirt was linen, costly, and colorful.

His tattoos, as mentioned, varied between lewd and impressive. One of them, a fish, seemed to swim every time his muscled moved. Magical ink that didn’t fade over time kept them fresh. It was his history, but Wailant Strongheart’s cutlass seldom saw use. It was more of a prop most of the time, for negotiations with [Traders] and so on.

But it was his. And Wailant was a former [Pirate]. And so, when he saw the Hobgoblin creeping along the back of the plaza where he was trying to sell his goods, the [Farmer] didn’t hesitate.

“A damn Hobgoblin!”

He pointed and roared. Numbtongue, who’d been edging around a cart, froze. The other citizens of Celum looked around. They stared at Numbtongue.

Yup, Hobgoblin. Word had gotten around. It was that crazy innkeeper! And the Hob sometimes played in front of that shop, the one with the Stitch-Woman. Stitchworks. You could buy this miraculous powder that helped baked bread, did you hear?

They were leery of Numbtongue, but he’d been seen around the city. No one was stopping him as he made his way to the place where he remembered the Players of Celum were supposed to be. Numbtongue saw the [Farmer] running at him, though.

And it occurred to Numbtongue about the same time as everyone else that Wailant Strongheart might not have come to Celum often enough to pick up the latest gossip. Numbtongue froze. He reached for his sword—then the guitar—then just made a fist.

Wailant Strongheart shoulder-charged past the cart, scattering people like flies. He opened up with a huge swing—Numbtongue dodged backwards. The Human was fast! Wailant caught himself, swung again, quicker. At the same time he kicked.

Numbtongue blocked the kick and stumbled backwards. A punch and a feint? The kick was heavy. The Hobgoblin’s eyes narrowed. He leapt forwards, punching.

“Farmer Wailant! Wait! Wait!”

Wailant ignored the shouts. He blocked Numbtongue’s punch, swung high at Numbtongue’s head. The Hobgoblin ducked the swing, punched low.

The former [Pirate] staggered. Wailant took a hit on the ribs, then a kick on the chest. He staggered back and people tried to shout at him. The [Farmer] ignored them, charged in again. Numbtongue was ready this time. He braced as Wailant charged at him like a bull. Take him down with a leg sweep, kick him a few times, and run off—the man swung at his face and shouted.

“[Dirty Feint]!”

The punch coming for Numbtongue vanished. Numbtongue blinked—

And Wailant kicked Numbtongue in the balls. The [Goblin Soulbard] folded up, as his entire head went blank with agony. Wailant stood over him. Numbtongue was a Redfang Warrior, but even Goblins had limits on the pain they could take. He curled up as Wailant guffawed.

“Hah! Gottim!”

The angry Human fought like a Goblin, which meant he wasn’t above kicking Numbtongue when he was on the ground. He only stopped when a bunch of people shouted.

“Stop, stop!”

“Farmer Wailant! Wait! Wait! It’s not a rogue monster!”

“What?”

Wailant turned, astonished. It was the lovers of theatre in the crowd who knew the full score. A pet Hobgoblin! Works at that magical inn with the Players of Celum! Absolutely!

The [Farmer] pointed at the swearing Hobgoblin.

“Selphid’s tits, are you serious? When did that happen? Why did no one tell me?”

“We tried!”

“Well—huh.”

Wailant studied the Hob on the ground. Neither he nor the Hobgoblin had drawn their blades, but Numbtongue looked like he might as soon as he got back up. Wailant opened his mouth—

“Mister Strongheart.”

And here came Merchant Geala. With her escort of eight [Caravan Guards]. Not the Watch—a specialized variant of [Mercenaries]. They flanked the angry woman.

“Ah, the line-cutting [Merchant]. How are you?”

Wailant turned and spread his arms wide, grinning without a hint of worry. The woman stared at him. She was pale with fury.

“You, sir, have damaged my wagon. Someone cut my wagon’s axle. And you were behind my wagon.”

“And?”

“I demand an apology. In gold and word.”

Geala stared at Wailant. The [Farmer] noticed the crowd who’d been so eager to save him from attacking the poor Hobgoblin had hurried away. He folded his arms.

“And if I say no?”

“I will have to require you to do so.”

This time the [Merchant] had no subtlety. Her eight escorts stepped forwards, hands on their blades. They wouldn’t kill the [Farmer], but certainly draw blood and drub him if he went for his own outlandish blade.

Wailant wasn’t impressed. He spat at Geala’s feet.

“Seems to me you got off lucky, rude as you were. Why don’t you turn around, Miss Merchant, and piss off? You don’t get to bully anyone you please just because you have a painted wagon and a group of idiots with swords.”

Geala went white. She looked at the [Head Caravan Guard] and he stepped forwards. He was more reluctant than his employer—if the ornery [Farmer] actually died, it would be a black mark on his name, never mind being possibly banned from Celum.

“There’s eight of us and one of you, man. Don’t be stupid.”

The [Farmer] didn’t even glance at the leader.

“One warning, Miss Merchant. Back off and let sleeping krakens lie.”

“You’ve been warned! Do it!”

Geala shouted at her guard. The other mercenaries reluctantly strode forwards.

“Don’t make this—”

Farmer Wailant Strongheart drew his cutlass.

It was not, as someone familiar with the stereotype of [Pirates] from Erin’s world might have expected, an oversized blade. Real cutlasses were short sabers, curved, yes, but not oversized. The cupped guard and hilt made the weapon a good fight for close-quarter combat. Boarding actions, for instance. On boats. You might also use another weapon in your off-hand.

Like a wand. Wailant aimed the wand at the [Head Caravan Guard]’s face. The man froze. Not just because of the wand—the cutlass shone. It was, after all, enchanted. The [Caravan Guards] backed up. Merchant Geala froze.

You got all sorts of [Farmers]. All sorts. Crazy ones, normal ones, [Farmers] who were more like [Managers] than the ones who did everything manually. But it was a rare [Farmer] indeed who owned an enchanted blade and knew how to use it, let alone fought like a [Pirate].

“See this? Magic cutlass. You got anything half as sharp, landfolk?”

The abnormal [Farmer] swung his cutlass easily through the air. The mercenaries stopped. They wore metal and leather, unenchanted. A sword like that might have a lesser enchantment. It didn’t look like that, of course. And a good one would cut right through their armor. They looked at their leader. Their leader stared at the glowing wand’s tip. It might just be a bluff.

“That’s what I thought. You piss right back into the sewer you came from. And I won’t remember your faces.”

Wailant snorted. The mercenaries had a choice. They could get into a fight with an angry [Farmer] in a foreign city—who had an enchanted sword and a wand—or they could walk off. It took them one second.

They walked off.

“Get back here!”

Mistress Geala was white with rage—then paled as she saw Wailant sheathing his sword. She backed up.

“Don’t you dare lay a land on me! I am a [Merchant] from First Landing and I’m bound for Pallass! I—”

“Don’t worry. I don’t kill landfolk for slights. Even if it’s deserved.”

Wailant sighed. Mistress Geala backed up. The [Farmer] looked at her.

Then he slapped her. Numbtongue, who’d finally got up clutching his groin, saw the woman twirl with the impact. The street gasped. The Hobgoblin winced.

Wailant Strongheart nodded, satisfied. He stared down as the [Merchant] fell over.

“That’s for threatening to beat me down. Miss. Do it again and I’ll cut off a finger. If you’d been able to mind your manners or let live and sail on, none of this would have happened. Idiot.”

He walked backwards, whistling. Numbtongue stared at the woman. So did everyone else.

It was about personalities. Merchant Geala wasn’t a bad woman. Probably. In another circumstance, her brazen attitude towards business might have come off as mildly infuriating, but acceptable. And a broken wagon wheel was something to get mad about. You could take demanding an apology too far. But still.

It was all about the person. And Wailant Strongheart was…Wailant. And he was a known figure. But in this moment, as the [Farmer] dusted his hands and looked about for the Hobgoblin he’d just attacked, he was not exactly in the right.

A group of [Guardsmen] raced around the street, marching fast. They’d remembered the other door to Stitchworks. Their leader was shouting.

“Secure the door! Make sure it doesn’t use its magic! Don’t let one of the ants through! Where’s that Goblin? I saw it come through! Capture it! If it resists—”

He paused as he saw Wailant, the [Merchant] clutching her cheek. Wailant stopped and his look of satisfaction vanished.

“…Shit.”

“Strongheart! What’s this about?”

The [Lieutenant] knew Wailant. And it only took him a moment before his face turned crimson.

“You hit a [Merchant] and damaged her wagon? Are you a Troll, man? That’s a woman!”

He strode up to Wailant, with the authority and force of outrage behind him. His patrol didn’t look happy about confronting Wailant, who was a known character. They didn’t like fighting a Hobgoblin either, but it was hard to tell who they were more reluctant to battle with at this moment.

“Forgive me, sir. I didn’t know what I was doing. Defending myself from someone who hired a lot of toughs to beat me down if I didn’t grovel at her feet.”

Wailant rolled his eyes, crossing his arms. The [Lieutenant] metamorphosed into purple. He pointed a finger at Wailant’s face.

“That’s it, Strongheart! You’ve been warned! You’re banned from the city for a month!”

“What? For dealing with some stuck-up foreigner?”

The [Farmer]’s eyes narrowed dangerously. The [Lieutenant] was listing off offences.

“Damage to property! Aggravated conduct! Striking a civilian! Intimidation! Offers of violence with a magical artifact! Repeated misconduct—don’t walk away from me! You’re lucky it’s a month! I should fine you on top of the wagon’s cost—”

He grabbed Wailant’s shoulder. Another mistake. The [Farmer] spun.

“Make it six months, idiot.”

He laid the [Lieutenant] out with a single punch. The plaza stared at the unconscious man. The patrol stared at Wailant. The [Farmer] looked at his bleeding fist—he’d nicked it on the edges of the man’s helmet. He cursed.

“Damn it.”



—-



In short order, Octavia’s shop was secured. Aside from the incident in the plaza, the door was secured and the Watch Captain learned to his displeasure that was not the magic door, but a receptacle for the actual magic.

The [Mayor] was not going to be happy. But done was done. The Watch Captain was just a vehicle to the desires of Celum, and he was still put-out over not making the final cut with the Players of Celum. They’d given him a choice—supporting cast or keep his old job. He’d lobbied for lead actor, and he’d been turned down. Wesle had gotten that role.

He was still mad about it. And madder still to hear about Wailant. The Watch Captain saw the [Farmer] lined up to leave the city by the northern gates. He stormed over.

“You! Strongheart! Get out of here! You’re banned for a year! Got it?”

“Yeah, yeah. Once you need my produce, you’ll want me back! And your [Alchemists] too!”

“All but two of them are out of commission, you idiot!”

The Watch Captain shouted at Wailant’s back. It was sort of an odd way to be triumphant, given the troubles with the [Alchemists], but he was pleased by Wailant’s glower. The [Farmer] drove out of the city, swearing at everyone he passed.



—-



“Damn, damn, damn. I didn’t even get to unload the Sage’s Grass! Viceria’s going to rip my fucking jewels off.”

When he was a few miles out from the city, Wailant stopped urging his horses at their quick pace. He couldn’t help but swear, though. Banned from Celum. It wasn’t a light thing, and he hadn’t even sold his main product, the aforementioned Sage’s Grass. Furiously, the [Farmer] took a deep swig from his flask. It had a strong odor.

“Hold up. Hold up, you dumb horses!”

The driver ordered his animals to a halt. He jumped off the driver’s seat and casually walked around to his wagon. It was empty now, of the mundane produce he’d piled up in it. The valuable stuff was all in his bag of holding. You didn’t put gold in the wagon. That was a fool’s game.

The tarp was lying on the wagon. And the wagon should have been empty, but a [Pirate], even a former one, had sharp eyes. Wailant paused as he stared at the lump near the back.

“I’ve seen stranger things at sea. But never on land. Hey, greenskin. Want a drink?”

Numbtongue sat up fast. He had his sword drawn. Wailant held up his hands.

“Easy. I heard you’re a ‘friendly’ Goblin. If I wanted you dead, I’d just have shouted for the Watch to deal with you. Seems they don’t like Goblins, even ones that live in the city.”

The Goblin [Bard] lowered the blade a fraction. Wailant was right. The [Farmer] studied Numbtongue, perplexed. He jerked his head at Numbtongue.

“Are you a polymorphed bloke? Heard an Archmage once got offed after losing a duel like that.”

“No.”

That Numbtongue could speak didn’t seem to surprise Wailant either. He paused.

“Illusion spell?”

“No. I’m me.”

“Just a fucking Goblin?”

“Yes. Just a fucking Goblin. You have a problem?”

Numbtongue bared his teeth. He was looking around—Wailant had stopped just off the road, but there would be more travellers soon. The [Farmer] shrugged.

“Eh. And here I thought my girl was blowing wind up my sails. Since you’ll probably get killed if I let you hop out—fancy a drink?”

He offered Numbtongue the flask. The Hobgoblin blinked and Wailant tossed it. Numbtongue sniffed the drink, took a sip, and brightened up. He’d experienced the joys of unlimited alcohol in Erin’s inn. Normally, it was a rare treat for Redfangs.

“Hm. Thank you.”

Wailant did raise his eyes at the courtesy. Numbtongue took a swallow, threw the flask back. The [Farmer] regarded him, and then climbed around the front of the wagon.

“Alright then. It’s a ways to my farm, so keep your face hidden if anyone drives by. What’s your name, Hob?”

“Numbtongue. What’s yours?”

Numbtongue warily sat in the back of the wagon, facing Wailant. He kept an eye out for travellers, ready to hide his head. Who was this [Farmer] who fought well and had tattoos? Wailant Strongheart was drinking, and tossed the flask over his shoulder.

“Wailant. Say, do you know Garia? Runner girl? Looks as sturdy as—no. She’s thin? But got muscles, blackish hair? A bit of blue, if you look right. Skin about as tan as—”

He tapped one arm, and Numbtongue noticed Wailant was a few shades darker than most Humans he’d met.

“Yes. Garia Strongheart.”

“Ah, that’s the one. Good. I’d hate to think my daughter was meeting all kinds of weird Goblins about.”

“Daughter?”

“Yeah. Yeah…I was going to see her. Damn. She was going to show me that inn! Damned [Merchants]. You know, she cut in front of me. Think they own the roads.”

Numbtongue eyed Wailant and said nothing. After a second, the [Farmer] looked back at him. He waved one hand impatiently at Numbtongue—and also to get his flask back.

“So…why everything about you? Start with the guitar.”



—-



It depended on how you looked at them. Someone willing to give a Goblin in danger a lift could be a jerk. And a good man could be a poor one, or vice versa.

The [Mayor] of Celum might have been a good man. He wasn’t a renowned figure, known the breadth of the region for his accomplishments. He wasn’t that famous, but he had won his position by vote.

He might not even have been a bad man. Erin didn’t know. But as she sat across from him in the little meeting room, arms folded, she was certain that if she had the opportunity, she was gonna punch him.

“Where’s Numbtongue?”

“That’s being investigated, Miss. Apparently, he was seen in a run-in with one of our local troublemakers. Another one, I should say. Captain, the Hobgoblin’s location?”

“Unknown, sir. But I’ve got my boys searching. It won’t hide long, and if it causes trouble—”

“He won’t cause trouble! And he’d be here if you didn’t steal my door!”

Erin slammed her hands on the table. The [Mayor] leaned back. Cetris Duiland was his name.

“Miss Solstice, as I said, that was an unfortunate accident. But please, calm down.”

“Mayor Duiland, this is exactly what we’re talking about! She’s got no respect for the city or its laws! And that Hobgoblin! How has she been allowed to act like this for so long?”

An angry voice rang out from behind the [Mayor]. Erin glared and was met by glares from a number of faces, familiar and unfamiliar. The Head of the Merchant’s Guild, the Baker’s Guild representative, the Guildmaster of the Runner’s Guild, were all present. As well, there were three familiar faces.

[Innkeepers]. Miss Agnes, Miss Ulia, and Mister Timbor, all of Celum, glared at Erin. She looked around. She had Octavia, Lyonette, Montressa, and a really bad mood.

When Erin had finally opened the door to Celum to confront Numbtongue’s disappearance, she’d received a message that she needed to appear before the [Mayor] of Celum. She vaguely knew the man—he’d yelled at her when she brought in Grimalkin and Relc to help fight that gang terrorizing Octavia. But she didn’t know him.

Now, clearly, he was going to be trouble. Erin folded her arms. She would have felt better if she had Grimalkin in her corner, or Zevara. Or anyone from either Pallass or Liscor.

But they’d declined to come. This was Erin’s squabble with Celum, and as Krshia had pointed out, it would not do for Liscor to start a conflict with a Human city. Nor for Pallass. It was a sign that Krshia was taking her new position seriously, much to Erin’s dismay.

However, she’d left Relc at the door and told the Watch Captain of Celum outright that Erin was Liscor’s. If Celum tried anything, well, they’d never be able to close the door with Relc around. And he’d come get her if Erin was gone for more than an hour.

Some comfort. Erin glared at Mayor Duiland.

“If one of the Watch hurts Numbtongue…”

“Miss Solstice. Threats against Celum are only adding to the case against you.”

“What case? You stole my door!”

“Because you’re a menace to Celum! You steal jobs, cause havoc—we can’t trust this Hobgoblin! Mayor, consider your own children! If this Hob were to run into your daughter—”

Miss Agnes’ voice cut off as Cetris turned in his chair. He was not a powerfully built figure like Wailant. But Erin saw him turn and she caught half of his expression.

“Was that a threat, Miss Agnes? What about my daughter?”

“Nothing! I was only concerned for—”

“A Hobgoblin is still a Goblin, Mayor Duiland. I’m sure Miss Agnes forgot herself.”

[Innkeeper] Ulia bowed slightly. Cetris stared at her and then relaxed. And Erin took his second measure.

“I’ve been told that this…Goblin…has never caused an incident in Celum aside from the encounter with the [Thugs]. So, therefore, I chose to ignore it. As I did the incident with the Antinium, and all the other incidents in the city. Celum, is, after all, a place of trade. But it seems in recent weeks that it has become a lopsided trade, Miss Solstice. Hence the confiscation of your door.”

“Which you guys thought was the actual magic one. You tried to steal it. I wonder who got that wrong?”

Erin glared at Miss Agnes. The older [Innkeeper] glared back. What had happened with Agnes? She’d once been a friend. But Safry and Marian had been bad, and Miss Agnes—Erin had liked her. Right up until she hadn’t.

“We attempted to steal nothing. The association of [Innkeepers] in Celum is simply opposed to your tactics of coercion. And [Innkeepers] across Izril will hear of you—you—thief! You stole my best workers and then fired them within a week!”

Miss Agnes pointed at Erin. The young woman shot up.

“Because they bullied Mrsha—”

“Enough! Please! Enough!”

Cetris stood up. He glared around and put two hands on the table. Then he looked past Erin.

“Mage Montressa. May I ask why Wistram is present at these negotiations? This is not the Academy’s business.”

His tone was politest towards her. Montressa cleared her throat as she tapped her staff on the carpet.

“Indeed not, Mayor Duiland. I’m simply here to aid in the negotiations as a friend to Miss Erin Solstice. I am a private individual conducting my business, and the academy does not back my presence in this regard.”

She nodded at Erin. The young woman nodded back, warily. Montressa had offered her help, and Erin had taken it. Cetris frowned. He didn’t like Montressa being here, ‘private individual’ or not.

“Very well, very well. Let’s put aside the matter of the Hobgoblin for now. When he is found, we will address any concerns. Miss Erin Solstice, you’ve been summoned for a number of reasons. Namely, your…portal door and its usage, and your influence on the city at large.”

Erin blinked at him.

“What about my door? It’s been there for months!”

The [Mayor] held up a hand.

“It has, and I have been aware of it and considered it a boon to Celum. However, this morning, I received not one, but numerous complaints related to your presence in the city. If I may, I will list them now. Firstly—”

Erin stared as he slowly read from his notes. The Runner’s Guild was angry that people were using her door to carry parcels and letters. The Merchant’s Guild was mad about the same thing. The Baker’s Guild hated Octavia’s baking soda and thought it was fake alchemy instead of real methods to rise bread. And the [Innkeepers]—Cetris had to pause at the lengthy list.

“Well, I have numerous complaints, regarding the treatment of staff, going against other inns in a combative spirit, taking over an inn despite the wishes of the actual [Innkeeper], poaching entertainment—”

“What? When did I do that last one?”

“The Players of Celum! They’re Celum’s people and she’s been funneling them all into her inn! Into Liscor!”

Timbor Parithad glared at Erin. She threw up her hands.

“They’re [Actors]! I taught Wesle and Jasi how to perform plays!”

“But they’re Celum’s citizens.”

“So?”

A fist crashed down on the table. Lyonette looked at the Head of the Merchant’s Guild. The man was red-faced. He barked down at Erin.

“So your inn’s taking away wages and profits that belong to Celum, young lady! This is our city, and you—”

“Guildmaster Trent!”

Cetris Duiland pushed the man back. He glanced at the three younger women—and saw all three of them eying Guildmaster Trent. They did not look unnerved by the man’s show of aggression. If anything—

Lyonette was calmly eying the room, as cool as ice. Montressa was frowning at the red-faced man. Octavia was glaring at the [Bakers]. And Erin was wiping spit off her face.

“If he spits on me again, I’m gonna smack him.”

She warned Cetris. Erin was a head shorter and a lot thinner than Guildmaster Trent, but she seemed to suggest the smack would come whether Trent wanted it or not. Cetris paused. He’d heard Erin Solstice was good at fighting.

“Outbursts like that will not happen again, Miss Solstice.”

He shot Trent a warning look. The Guildmaster subsided. Lyonette took over.

“Celum has a number of complaints about The Wandering Inn, Mayor Cetris. However, I didn’t hear the city voicing their objections until now. There was an agreement in place about the use of the door to transport letters and goods belonging to the Merchant’s Guild and the Runner’s Guild, but the inn hasn’t received any notifications of impropriety until now.”

She glanced at Erin and then looked at Cetris with a smile. The young woman was polite and well-spoken as she glanced around the room.

“It seems that Erin’s property has been forcibly confiscated, and she herself has been summoned to a room to be threatened and shouted at by some of Celum’s elite for faults the city has caused, rather than approached in any diplomatic manner. Which is surprising to me that a city, or [Mayor] would act this way, but I assume this is all in good faith?”

Her tone was polite, but the delivery made Cetris flush. The Guildmasters all fidgeted uncomfortably as well. The [Mayor] shuffled his notes quickly, wondering who she was.

“It’s a regrettable oversight, Miss…”

“Lyon.”

“Miss Lyon, yes. But the fact remains that the ah, benign neglect has added up. Let’s run through the issues one at a time, shall we? The situation with individuals bearing packages through the door—”

“Is it an issue?”

Lyonette stopped Mayor Cetris with a raised brow. She heard a splutter.

“Of course it is! That’s our money—Runners make deliveries going south! This door is undercutting their work!”

“Because it’s more convenient.”

Lyonette coolly looked at the Guildmaster of the Runner’s Guild. The man hesitated.

“It’s magic. Cheating, is what it is!”

“But people should pay for City Runners to deliver goods slower and at cost, when a magical door can do their work for them? I fail to see the logic, Guildmaster. Unless your point is simply that the Runner’s Guild deserves to keep working as it always has?”

The man hesitated.

“It will ruin the economy. The Merchant’s Guild is in agreement. Transport to Liscor—”

“Doesn’t occur. Letters always go by way of Esthelm. And trade and transport ceases in the spring. The magic door may well put City Runners out of work in regards to going towards Liscor, but doesn’t Celum’s Runner’s Guild get more deliveries going north? If anything, Liscor’s Guild is the one that should be objecting.”

Mayor Cetris turned his head, eyebrows raised.

“Is that true, Guildmaster Eirnhen?”

The Guildmaster hesitated. Lyonette folded her arms and declined to high-five Erin. Both Trent and Eirnhen looked at each other. Eirnhern raised a finger.

“The fact is that it’s still free access to Liscor and Celum. Money that doesn’t go to either city, unless Liscor’s taking a cut?”

“But no one’s charged for the door.”

“What? You mean—you don’t charge people for using it?”

Trent stared at Lyonette. She half-glared at Erin.

“No, we do not, in fact.”

“But what a waste of money!”

The [Merchant] burst out. Lyonette nodded. Erin sighed. So did Cetris.

“I see the issue. Moving ahead. We’ll return to you, Guildmasters. The Baker’s Guild is furious because of a…baking…soda? Some new alchemical concoction.”

The [Baker] sent to represent her guild nodded, looking angrily at Octavia.

“It’s going to ruin our jobs, Mayor! It’s not a real baking thing at all! Just some fake powder. You have to do something with acid. I heard that [Alchemist] telling her customers!”

“Acid?”

Alarmed, Cetris looked at Octavia. The [Alchemist] raised her hands.

“Hey! I just meant buttermilk! Acidic liquids! Not acid, acid. It’s a technical term. And it’s completely good powder! Right Erin? You can use it for baking!”

“It’s ruining jobs! You’ll get jumped-up apprentices trying to replace masters. We cultivate yeast, and gain Skills for rising bread. But this powder will undercut all our levels and hard work!”

The [Baker] made her case. Cetris nodded a few times, looking at Erin and Octavia.

“Do you two have anything to say, Miss Solstice, Miss Cotton?”

Erin raised her hand.

“Um. Yeah. Baking powder’s normal. It’s not a weird alchemical thing. Well, it’s not like flour or oil, but it’s not a trick. You can make bread with baking soda, just like with yeast. Or powder.”

“There’s a powder?”

“What’s the difference?”

The [Baker] and Octavia exclaimed. Montressa narrowed her eyes at Erin’s back. Erin shrugged.

“I have no idea. It just makes bread rise up and stuff. But look—it’s natural. That’s why I asked Octavia for help. I didn’t have a Skill, so I needed baking soda.”

“But it’ll undercut—[Mayor]!”

The [Baker] appealed to Cetris. He was nodding.

“Miss Cotton, Miss Solstice. You can see that this will damage our [Baker]’s livelihoods, can’t you? These new changes, this door—all of it is destabilizing Celum’s workers. Who have worked in their professions for generations!”

He thought it was quite well-put. But all four young women instantly opened their mouths. Montressa was first.

“Mayor Duiland, I’m sure that Celum’s workers are quite traditional. And if you so require it, I’m certain Miss Cotton will happily stop selling her soda in Celum.”

“She will?”

“I will?”

Octavia stared at Montressa’s back. The [Mage] turned her head.

“Didn’t you say you wanted to move to Liscor, Octavia? I heard Lyonette discussing it with you.”

The [Princess] blinked.

“Well—we were suggesting a wing of the inn.”

“Perfect! You can do that! We don’t need that trouble, anyways!”

The [Baker] was beaming. But Cetris had caught Montressa’s implication. He rubbed his forehead.

“That would mean baking soda is then imported to Celum, wouldn’t it, Mage Montressa? Which means we would be paying for the very goods our own Miss Cotton is producing in the city?”

Montressa smiled at Cetris as Guildmaster Trent’s head snapped up.

“Precisely, Mayor Cetris. You can stop baking soda from being imported into the city, of course, but you cannot stop a new invention. I’m sure Liscor’s [Bakers] will face the very same issues as Celum’s, but baking soda exists and if it isn’t harmful—”

She looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] shrugged.

“Just don’t swallow it alone. That’s probably bad. Probably gives you bad gas or makes you throw up if you do it wrong. But it’s not poison. I think.”

“—then I’m afraid that’s where the Baker’s Guilds will have to adapt.”

Montressa nodded at the crestfallen [Baker]. Cetris looked around.

“Surely…surely Miss Cotton would be amenable to halting her sale of baking soda.”

“I’ll move to Liscor.”

Octavia raised her hand. Cetris glared at her. But for the baking soda and her matches, he’d be glad to see the end of another of Celum’s headaches. But now—he drummed his fingers on the table.

“That would be unfortunate for Celum.”

“Hey, I like it here. Lived for years in Celum. But I’m getting a new place for free—”

“—with rent—”

Lyonette coughed into one hand. Octavia faltered.

“Well, safer than Celum. On the whole. I think. At least I won’t be extorted. It’ll be part of Erin’s inn, right?”

She got encouraging nods from Erin and Lyonette. Mayor Cetris’ face fell. He looked around.

“Mayor, we could prevent her from leaving. Just close the door! She can’t go through that way!”

One of the [Innkeepers] leaned over and whispered to Cetris. He flushed and snapped.

“Miss Agnes! We aren’t going to constrain Miss Cotton of anything!”

He glared at the [Innkeepers].

“This is a purely reasonable decision, without…punitive emotions involved! Miss Cotton will of course be allowed to move her shop if she so wishes! Quickly. Today. I imagine this—this door can do it all, can’t it? She’ll forfeit the lease on her shop, but that is a simple solution. Or she may go to Liscor properly! Without magic! Which is the normal way of things.”

Cetris turned around. He might not have been a bad man. Erin looked at him.

“But the door’s being closed to Celum? Why?”

The [Mayor] looked at her.

“Well, Miss Solstice, the complaints of the other Guilds aside, I have two good reasons. Firstly, I’m afraid the Innkeeper’s Association of Celum has the most complaints against you. You’ve been blacklisted by the local inns, and I’ve no desire to see a miniature trade war in my city. The one in the north is bad enough.”

“What, those three?”

Erin pointed at Agnes, Ulia, and Timbor. Cetris nodded.

“They have a number of complaints—”

“So what? They’re jerks.”

Erin glared at them.

“I helped you! And you betrayed me by taking my customers, my staff—”

Miss Agnes was furious. Erin pointed at her.

“Safry and Marian were an accident! They wanted to quit and they were awful! Why should I give them money for being lazy and mean—”

“[Innkeepers] cooperate. What don’t you understand, young woman? We share our profits, support each other—”

“Yeah, and lean, I bet! I don’t take orders from you—”

“Enough!”

Cetris stood up. Erin sat down. The other [Innkeepers] moved back. The [Mayor], breathing hard, shook his head.

“Miss Solstice. Aside from the fact that I’d like to discourage another conflict between professions, there’s a simple reason why your door will be banned from Celum. Firstly, because there is animosity between you and three guilds, and two of my best inns in the city.”

Miss Agnes’ smug smile slipped. Cetris shook his head.

“But mostly, Miss Solstice, I was persuaded because of your Hobgoblin. Because of the incident where an Antinium Soldier fought Celum’s citizens—even criminals! I’ve heard about Pallass, you see.”

“Oh. Ooh.”

Erin looked at Lyonette and Montressa and Octavia. Montressa winced.

“Mayor—”

“However, I’d be fine with dealing with that. Even the Antinium, yes. Gates can be built, access restricted. Inns monitored for infighting.”

Cetris glared over his shoulder. Then he sighed.

“The truth is, Miss Solstice—it’s just your inn. And you. I’m not sure you’re aware of this, but you have…reputation for trouble. I’ve studied up on Liscor. The monster attacks, the dungeon. Crelers. You have a habit for attracting trouble. Thus far, it hasn’t been to Celum’s detriment, but—Pallass.”

He spread his hands. Erin’s face fell.

“That wasn’t my fault. Chaldion said. He’s the Grand Strategist. You can ask him if you like.”

She pointed towards the door. Cetris paused, then he shook his head.

“Miss Solstice, I’m sure he could vouch for the Wyvern attack as coincidence. But you were in the Walled City when it was attacked, were you not?”

“…Yes.”

The [Mayor] nodded. He sighed.

“It’s not that I believe you have a…curse Skill. Or bad luck. But this morning I was informed there was a betting pool. There are individuals…even rich individuals…monarchs, among others, placing bets on whether Celum will be attacked in the next month. This year. And how many casualties will occur. I understand there’s a betting pool on Liscor as well.”

Erin’s jaw dropped. Lyonette and Montressa exclaimed.

“Bets?”

“Who?”

“How much?”

Octavia looked around. She raised her hands defensively.

“Just me? Okay. I thought everyone would like to know…”

The mayor of Celum looked at Erin. Not without sympathy. He steepled his hands.

“Miss Solstice, that was the crux of my decision. The rest of it I felt you should have the opportunity to explain. And you have. But for that aspect…can you assure me Celum would be safe with precautions?”

“I mean, if you put a gate on the door like Pallass—look, Liscor’s just next to a dungeon. It’s sort of dangerous.”

“And a gate would keep us safe?”

“Well, the door would have to be open. And there’d have to be something that could go through the gate. Which wouldn’t be—I mean, a Raskghar could probably do it. Or evil Calruz. Or Crelers. Or…”

Erin realized she was not making a case for herself. The [Mayor] stared at her, along with everyone else. Erin Solstice slowly stood up.

“So—so the door’s banned from Celum?”

“We’ll let Miss Cotton move if she can effect it within the day, of course. And we’ll consider all events dealt with without fine or offence. I think that’s the least we can do. The Hobgoblin will be allowed to return, so long as no one is injured or killed, Five Families forbid.”

Cetris Duiland nodded, shuffling his papers. Erin stared around. Most of the people on Celum’s side looked some measure of triumphant, although Trent was looking worried as he stared at Octavia.

Lyonette seemed to accept the measure, albeit with pursed lips. Octavia was scratching her braids.

“How can I move everything…? Well, I suppose. Hey, Lyonette. Is the uh, other shop you promised actually built or…?”

Montressa was shrugging. She whispered to Erin.

“We can always do another city, Erin. Do you need Celum?”

“No. But I like it here. Even with all the jerks.”

Erin muttered back. She saw Cetris turn his head. But the [Mayor] said nothing more. Erin looked at him.

“Fine. We have all of today, right?”

“Let us say by midnight?”

He nodded at her. That was more time than Erin had thought. She smiled a bit.

“Thanks. I’ll want to find some of my friends. And—I need to tell the Players of Celum to come through. Some’ll have to stay I guess, but Temile and most of the others can go with their families, probably. Selys might be able to house them in the new part of the city.”

“Huh?”

The Celumites turned as one. Ulia’s head snapped around.

“The—the Players of Celum?”

“Well, yeah. They’ll have to come since the door’ll be gone.”

Erin blinked at them. Ulia’s brows shot together.

“No. They’re staying here.”

“Why?”

Mayor Cetris looked around wildly.

“Because they’re Celum’s [Actors]. That was one of your complaints, wasn’t it? Miss Ulia?”

“Naturally! They should be performing in our inns! They won’t just leave because Miss Solstice demands it!”

“But I helped make them. Besides, I help with the plays. And I have a stage. Temile’ll come if there’s a choice. I think.”

Erin furrowed her brows. Mayor Cetris was giving the other [Innkeepers] a death-glare. Timbor raised his hands.

“But—hold on now. They’re the Players of Celum! They can’t leave the city! That’s their name.”

He laughed as if that settled that. The young [Innkeeper] shrugged. Erin thought for a second and snapped her fingers.

“They can be the Players from Celum. I don’t like it. Families will have to move, and maybe some of the [Actors] will have to stay. But that’s life, right? You chose this. Not me.”

She looked at Cetris Duiland. The [Mayor] stared at her. Guilds were one thing. Inns were one thing. Even the threat of monster attacks. But Ulia had quoted the money and attention the Players of Celum—even the group that had been left behind—would bring the city. Without Miss Solstice’s inn to take custom into Liscor. He raised his hands.

“Wait a moment. This is an unexpected—let’s talk this through. I call—[Disadvantaged Renegotiation]! Thank you!”

Erin paused. The entire room paused. Cetris wiped at his brow with one sleeve.

“You can’t do that!”

Montressa glared at Cetris. But she and Octavia were already sitting back down. The other Guildmasters and [Innkeepers] were returning to their places as well. Cetris nodded at Montressa.

“Mage Montressa, I can and I did. It’s to Miss Solstice’s favor—”

It was one of his Skills as [Mayor]. Not a perfect one, but it worked. They’d begin again, albeit with the odds against Cetris. Or…it should have.

The young woman named Miss Lyon hadn’t moved. She’d folded her arms by the door.

“I don’t believe we need to renegotiate. Erin, Montressa, Octavia, let’s go.”

Cetris’ eyes bulged as he felt something resisting his [Disadvantaged Negotiation]. Somehow, the young woman was pushing at his Skill, fighting it off! That shouldn’t be possible! At least—not unless she was a [Diplomat], or [Merchant]! How was she…?

The [Mayor] and [Princess] locked gazes as they clashed in the inn. Erin, who was also on her feet, saw the invisible battle of wills. She hesitated. Then she waved a hand.

“Lyonette. Let’s try again. I don’t want to leave Celum if I can help it.”

“Erin—”

Lyonette glanced at her. Then she exhaled slowly.

“Fine.”

She returned to her position. Cetris exhaled, and found his handkerchief to mop at his forehead. Before anyone could object, he sprang into action.

“Very good! I, personally, and as [Mayor], see no reason not to allow the door to stay. I can even see a special permit—so long as this Hobgoblin stays in Miss Cotton’s shop. Signed! Ratified with the Adventurer’s Guild!”

“Mayor!”

Outrage from behind him. Cetris turned his head.

“Can any of you think of a reason that outweighs the Players of Celum’s departure? No? Thank you! Be silent!”

He turned back towards Erin. She smiled at him. She almost liked him, despite the situation. He was doing his job. It depended on how you met someone. Cetris smiled back as well.

“I believe we can come to an accommodation, Miss Solstice.”

“Yeah. I’d like that. We can try regulating the door. And like Lyonette said—the [Bakers] and so on in Liscor are going to be mad too. I’ll talk with Liscor’s Council, but if the door can stay open—let it, right?”

Mayor Cetris Duiland nodded and relaxed. He sat back in his chair.

“Excellent. Now, let’s just talk import and export taxes, and a small usage fee. This has been a method of somewhat illegal transport, after all. And the Runner’s Guild and Merchant’s Guild should inspect the situation in an equitable way for all…”



—-



Five minutes later, Erin strode back through Octavia’s shop. A babble of voices followed, and Relc looked up from where he was inspecting potions. He guiltily hid an opened bottle behind his back.

“Hey Erin, what’s—”

“We’re out of here! No, I’m not negotiating it! I’ll find a better city! Like—like Esthelm! Octavia, pack up! And Temile, tell the Players its decision time!”

Erin shouted at the [Producer] as the [Mayor] and a host of angry, desperate, concerned, people followed. Relc chuckled.

“Now this is what I come here for.”

He casually blocked the door to Octavia’s shop as Erin stomped through to her inn, followed by Lyonette and Montressa. The [Mayor] stared up at the huge Drake with the spear. He made one fist and cracked his knuckles as he squeezed.

“Hi. They call me Relc.”



—-



Erin felt sad, and relieved, and angry at the same time. She stared back into Octavia’s shop as Relc barred the door. The [Alchemist] was running about.

“I’m going to need help bringing all my stuff through! But I’m doing it! I’ll—uh—how am I going to move…?”

“I’m sorry, Temile. But there is space in Liscor. I imagine some of the [Actors] will stay, right? There’ll be work. They can keep the plays going. What will the entire group do, though? You don’t have to come through.”

Temile was gnawing on one lip. The man looked at Erin. And then he glanced at his hand. His missing thumb. But when he put a hand on Erin’s shoulder, he squeezed tight.

“We might not be the Players of Celum, but where would we be without the one who started us down this road? I’ll talk to everyone. There are some families—but there’s work in Liscor, right?”

“Yeah! Look—I’m going to get Selys. We’ll arrange it all before midnight.”

“Got it. I will be back!”

Temile ran off. Erin looked around. Montressa raised her eyebrows.

“Does this always happen in your inn?”

“More than you think. Drassi, get Selys. Is she in the inn? Liscor?”

“The garden! I’ll get her! Selys!”

Drassi opened the door and walked through. Lyonette sighed.

“I’ll clear out one of the private rooms for Octavia. It can be storage for now. Erin, you get to tell her that her shop isn’t actually built yet.”

She hurried off, calling for Ishkr. Erin sighed—and then she paused.

“…Where’s Numbtongue?”

She’d forgot again! Erin spun towards the door, but the Watch Captain hadn’t found him. Erin looked at Montressa.

“I have to find him. Montressa, tell Lyonette I’m going to search!”

“I’ll go with you. Those [Innkeepers] looked like trouble. You could use a barrier or two. Or just a [Mage].”

Montressa hefted her staff. Erin nodded. They headed for the open door.

“Excuse me! Erin! Erin!”

Palt trotted in front of them. The two stopped.

“Hey Palt, I’m sorry, but Numbtongue’s—”

“Found.”

The Centaur put one arm out, looking satisfied beyond belief. Erin stopped and did a double-take. There was no Hobgoblin behind Palt.

“By who?”

“Whom.”

Erin raised a fist. Palt backed up.

“Er, sorry. But he’s found! I got a [Message]. Believe it or not, one of my…acquaintances knows him. My faction.”

He gave Montressa a triumphant look. The [Aegiscaster] just stared at Palt. Erin blinked.

“Who?”

Palt inhaled on his cigar. He puffed out.

“It’s a funny thing. But—you wouldn’t happen to know a Viceria Strongheart, would you? Apparently, her daughter’s in the city. She knows you?”

Erin Solstice blinked. She looked around. Then she raised her voice.

“Garia?”

Someone fought through the crowd Relc was blocking. He let her go through, and a slim, physically built young woman entered the room. She had the kind of body Erin expected on an athlete. Ryoka-ish, but Ryoka didn’t have those abdominals. Or the inclination to show them.

But Garia Strongheart was a changed young woman. She panted as she wiped sweat from her brow.

“Erin! Did you call my name? Is Mrsha found? I’ve been running all over Celum with Fals, but I’m almost certain she’s not here!”

Erin saw Fals waving a hand from the crowd. She sucked in her breath.

“Ooh.”

Montressa echoed her.

“Ooh.”

Erin waved guiltily at Garia.

“Come on through. You too, Fals! You need to see this. And uh, I’ll be in the kitchen after this. For a—thank-you cake. A big one. So long as Mrsha doesn’t smash it.”

Garia trotted into the inn. She exclaimed as Erin told her the news about Mrsha and the garden. And then her eyes widened.

“Mom sent that [Message]? But—how’d he get there?”

“Apparently her spouse picked him up after some sort of fight in Celum.”

“Dad? Oh no. Did he cut Numbtongue? He’s got a magic cutlass that he coats with some kind of paralysis poison! As if the wand and the enchantment isn’t bad enough!”

The City Runner groaned. Erin stared at her. She realized she’d never met Garia’s parents. Ryoka had, with Mrsha, but all she’d said about them was that they were ‘interesting’. How interesting, Erin had never known. She looked at Palt. He waggled his eyebrows.

“Ullsinoi.”

“Garia, your parents have Numbtongue at their farm. He’s not hurt, but—”

The [Martial Artist] sighed in relief.

“Oh, good. Then—I could actually run the magic door gem-thing over there! It’s not far! My parents have a farm around Celum.”

“What do they grow?”

Garia made a face.

“Produce. Dad rotates it when he gets bored, but we have a few fields of Sage’s Grass. It’s more trouble than it’s worth.”

“What?”

Montressa and Palt stared at Garia. She shook her head.

“I just hope they don’t do anything weird to Numbtongue. They drink like, well, retired [Pirates]. Which Dad is. Haven’t I ever said?”

“Wait, say that again?”

Erin tried to clear out one ear. She saw Mrsha running through the doorway. And then, of all people, Seborn appeared.

“Did someone say [Pirates]?”

He stared at Garia. And Erin had a surreal experience. Upon her inn, all things turned. It was a place of magic, mystery, and event. But for the first time…

Everything was revolving around Garia.



—-



A Drake stood in a building in Liscor. Which one wasn’t important. He had a few like it. Safe places. Places where a…[Thief], or someone who knew the right people could hide out. For a price. The Drake had ashen scales, and he was old.

He was called Mister Soot. Mister Soot. He was very particular about that. If you asked the right people, they’d tell you about Mister Soot.

He was a crime lord. Not a [Crime Lord]; that was a bit above his actual class, [Mastermind]. [Gang Mastermind], if you wanted to be specific.

It sounded better than it was. Or maybe it sounded exactly like it was. Soot was no ‘stache-twirling evil genius. But he was smart, and he operated a significant portion of Liscor’s underworld.

Because it did have one. True, the city had Drake-style law enforcement, which meant it had less casual corruption. But that just meant crime evolved to meet the challenge.

Soot ran a gang, a euphemism for any group of organized crime. His was hardly a group of [Thugs], after all. His gang had magical wands, gear, and good numbers. They weren’t shy about tangling with the Watch, although they stayed away from the dangerous fighters, like Jeiss, Relc, and Klbkch. They prioritized money over petty fights, which was why Soot was where he was.

In fact, Mister Soot was known by all of the Watch as one of their most wanted. But he was an elusive enemy, and one that controlled his elements well, so that the [Guards] usually had bigger fish to fry, including actual monsters. Soot understood that well, which was why he didn’t fight the Watch most of the time, just frustrate them. He also kept his claws clean of crime himself.

Zevara had never gotten Mister Soot for his crimes. She had a lot of circumstantial evidence, even a few people willing to point at him as…‘someone’. But never anything she could concretely use to kick him out. If she could exile people just based on her feelings, Soot would have been gone long ago.

And at the moment, Mister Soot was well-placed to be even bigger than he was. Liscor was a hopping place to be right now, and Mister Soot saw his opportunity to finally make a fortune worthy of his ambitions.

A magic door, interest from abroad—not to mention the road to Pallass, which was reportedly almost halfway done already—at least, in regards to clearing the Bloodfields. Soot was no Gnoll, but he smelled the opportunity to be the liaison between a new wave of crime and opportunity.

He’d make a fortune if he played his cards right. And then he could retire and never have to work with something like Bearclaw ever again.

He stood alone in this safe room. Alone, but for Bearclaw and two figures. The huge Gnoll was bent over one of them. She stepped down, and Soot listened to a bone break. He’d heard bones break before, but this time sounded the worst. He saw the figure on the floor move. But it was bound.

[Silence] spell on the gag. Soot looked down at the Gnoll dressed in the Watch’s colors. His gang had killed [Guards] before. Sometimes it was necessary. But this—he looked at Bearclaw.

She was huge. And unlike Soot, she got her paws dirty. Bearclaw had come from the south. Not through the magic door—Pallass might have tried to arrest her, and they certainly wouldn’t condone her going to Liscor if they’d known. She’d made the journey on foot.

“You said this one’s a Senior Guard, Soot?”

Bearclaw turned her head. She had countless scars, some of which were visible since the fur had never regrown. She was known as ‘Bearclaw’ because of the metal claws she used to fight with. She hadn’t pulled them out yet, even when she’d brought both of the [Guards] tailing her.

“Yes. She’s—she’s a decent Senior Guardswoman. Just got promoted last year.”

Soot avoided the gaze of the Gnoll on the ground. She was still alive. But her limbs were—twisted. Bearclaw grinned.

“She was. So was the other one. For a small city like this. See? She’s trying to get her blood on me. Her scent.”

She nodded at the Gnoll. The [Guard] had bit her lip and was trying to spit blood. Bearclaw kicked viciously.

“Smart. But that’s why I’ll remove it with a tonic.”

“If she dies…”

The [Mastermind] hesitated. He saw Bearclaw look at him. Normally, Soot wouldn’t have been around her without his [Bodyguards]. But he was not in control. He’d lost control the moment he’d walked into his safe room and found…this.

“Don’t worry. She’s not going to die. Not even if she bites her tongue. And my person will be here. I told you—I know how it works.”

Bearclaw’s reply was followed almost instantly by a rap on the door. Both she and Soot turned. It was the right phrase, but still, Soot held the dangerous wand in one claw, ready to draw, as Bearclaw checked. She let in a hooded, totally masked figure.

Another Gnoll? Or maybe a bulky Drake. Soot avoided his gaze as the figure came for the two [Guards]. They were still alive, but Bearclaw hadn’t left them able to fight back. They were loaded into a handcart like things and vanished with the other figure.

“I’ve heard of it being done. But I don’t…need to do that myself.”

Soot kept clearing his throat. Bearclaw gave him an amused grin. She had a small bottle out and was mixing the liquid into her fur, removing scent.

“It’s simple, Soot. I don’t know where she died. I don’t know how she died, officer. I wasn’t anywhere near her when she apparently died. She didn’t die the day I saw her, neither. Might not even be someone who killed them. Might have just been monsters. Hear you have Shield Spiders and Rock Crabs. Big pity, that.”

The Gnoll looked at Soot. He paled.

“What if they ask if you had anything at all to do with her death? Or if you ran into her or encountered her in…?”

The Watch weren’t idiots. They knew to ask multiple questions. And they would. Why had she done it?

“Then I use my [Four Good Lies] for the week. But I think I’ll level up tonight. Or at the least, the Watch’ll think twice about tailing me. That Drake and Ant would’ve been different, but they’re busy. And it proves the Watch isn’t invincible. Like you kept telling me, eh?”

Bearclaw rested one paw on Soot’s shoulder. He flinched away.

“Absolutely, Bearclaw. But…what happens if I get questioned?”

She grinned at him.

“You keep your mouth shut no matter what, eh, Soot?”

She went back to cleaning herself. Mister Soot eyed Bearclaw. She’d come to him with a warning, but he’d assumed he knew crime. He’d killed people with his claws before. With knives, wands—but always with the long view in mind.

Bearclaw didn’t care about consequences. She’d killed the two Senior Guards because she could.

“So?”

“So…?”

“The inn. You had a message for me?”

The Drake started. He nodded a few times, relieved.

“There’s a claim on the inn. The Brother of Serendipitous Meetings has one. And another—from the Elusive Lot. Claws off. Paws, that is.”

“Who’re the Brothers?”

Bearclaw didn’t look up. Soot paused.

“A big name up north. Two of their agents work in the south, sometimes. The Gentlemen Callers?”

“Never heard of them. What do I care?”

Soot gulped.

“The Elusive Lot also has a clause on the inn.”

“So? My gang doesn’t answer to [Mages].”

This time the Gnoll woman stared at Soot. He nodded a few times.

“Of course. But…I’m just letting you know.”

“And I don’t care. If that’s your message, it’s wasted. I can taste the money here.”

Bearclaw grinned again, flexing her huge paws.

“Bounty on a white Gnoll, alive. Bounty on an [Innkeeper]. Bounty on the magical door. And the Heartflame Breastplate.”

“The inn’s dangerous.”

“Yeah. I saw.”

Bearclaw knew about Grimalkin, the Gold-ranks, and all the others Soot had heard of going through Erin’s inn. The Drake had even gone there himself for a ‘pizza’. Still, she was smiling. Soot eyed her.

“So—your other members. Are they coming along soon? Because our entry route is compromised and I don’t know if I can bribe anyone after today—”

The Gnoll woman shut him up with a paw. She sighed.

“Idiot. The Meeting of Tribes is coming. You don’t attack an [Innkeeper] in her inn. I have what I wanted. You just keep your eyes open. And I have the little one’s scent.”

She laughed. She meant Mrsha. Soot wished he didn’t know the Gnoll’s name. But she’d come over and sniffed him until the [Barmaid] had drawn her away. Soot…liked children. He did not think of himself as an entirely bad person. He wondered if Bearclaw had even asked herself that.

To think of anything to say, Soot found the first thought and blurted it out.

“Who wants the white Gnoll? Aren’t they supposed to bring doom? I can’t imagine anyone wants her—but the bounty was alive, right?”

Bearclaw snorted. She looked dismissively at Soot.

“You’re too wrapped up in this tiny city, Soot. You should go to Pallass. Meet some real gangs. Who wants a white Gnoll? Her kind, obviously. The better question is—who wants the [Innkeeper]? Because half of the bounties on her are alive. Half are for dead.”

“And which one are you taking?”

The Gnoll gave Soot a wide, pleased smile.

“I’ll figure it out when I get her. Pass me the towel.”





7.08 K


“They say there will be war with Ailendamus soon. If it occurs, it would be the entire kingdom versus Kaliv, Calanfer, and Gaiil-Drome, assuming the old pact holds. Phaislant would be included as well, given their relationship with Ailendamus.”

“Go on.”

“I predict Taimaguros would side with Ailendamus—they have a defensive alliance, and the war would benefit the Taimaguros Dominion. So that would mean two major powers and all the allied nations fighting the traditional Saiver Pact plus Phaislant.”

“Doesn’t Phaislant have the Order of Seasons? I remember the games at Daquin, seeing their [Knights] there. House Kallinad, correct?”

“Correct—but the Order is one [Knight] order. Ailendamus might well call upon its orders, and [Knights] are few in number.”

“Intriguing. How would this affect us?”

The Emperor of Sands paused. She looked at herself. Another aspect of herself, rather. A head sat on the arm rest of her throne. It, like she, was made of cloth. But cloth that lived, and breathed, and spoke.

String People. The [Empress] nodded at the head, which lived despite lacking a body. He was her, a young man, in the fires of his youth. And she was the [Emperor of Sands] as well, although she styled herself [Empress] when she wore this head. She was—had been—the most beautiful and intelligent [Emira] in her nation before she had become the [Empress].

She was the [Empress], he the [Emperor]. Both the same being. If the distinction was confusing, well—even other String People would have found their nature perplexing.

Even horrifying. For, the [Emperor], the [Empress], the ruler of the Empire of Sands was a String-Person. That was easy enough. But where they differed from the artificial folk who hailed from Chandrar was that they could sew and replace any body part they chose.

Even their head.

Most String People had a mortal flaw, in that while they could replace limbs, organs, any part of their body as they chose, changing material and cloth and cut to make their arms more attractive, stronger, and so on—they could not replace their heads.

The head contained the String Person’s original thread, from which their life originated. It was the most magical part of them—although [Alchemists] the world over were banned from ever experimenting with it on pain of death in any country ruled by the String People. And any rumored to be experimenting with it outside of Chandrar’s domain died.

Long ago, the String Folk had won their freedom, and they were no one’s puppets. The living string in each String Person’s head grew with them. A String-Child had but a thread; an elder who died of old-age—and String People could live into their hundreds, if seldom—would have a small skein of thread that would turn to dust shortly after their death.

You could not replace it. Even creating a new child was painful, and yes, sacrificial on the parts of the parents. Thus, the String People, who could be vain indeed, never replaced components of their heads save at more dire need. That was how their caste system worked; no matter what you became, someone born of hemp would show it, in their face if nowhere else.

String People valued cloth like other species valued strength, beauty, fertility, and so on. Those who had been made of silk or rarer fabrics stood at the height of society, beloved and envied. Below them were common fabrics, known collectively as cotton. At the bottom were the rough, hardy folk. Hemp.

That was what the String People of Chandrar were. Highly social, even bitterly so, reclusive about some secrets, but strong fighters, a people who had built themselves and were thus comparatively new to this world. They had many advantages in life, including their ability to repair even crippling damage, but they seldom left the deserts.

Like every species, String People had fought in wars of conquest and defense, but String People had seldom threatened the world for one simple reason: they burned. And if you damaged the magical string in their brains, they died like anyone else.

Now, the Empire of Sands. A growing power in the west of Chandrar, a nation ruled by String-People. It was already considered to be one of the great String Folk powers, behind Nerrhavia’s Fall, but new. Growing. The [Emperor] who ruled the nation, the Emperor of Sands, was a mysterious figure.

Male. Female. They had multiple heads. Most String Folk died if you cut off the head; the magical string needed energy, and without a body to sustain it, it died fast. And how could one being have multiple heads, anyways? Let alone…

The [Empress] stretched lazily. She wore a body of silk, so languorous and beautiful it would have driven a thousand [Poets] to composing odes to her beauty. But none were present; she sat in her throne, which was made entirely of sand, comfortable to some degree, yet hard as any stone.

She did have a motif. And the head of the [Empress] was beautiful.

Once, she had been called Emira Saet-rei of Doran, a small nation subsumed early by the Empire of Sands. She had led the defense of her nation well, Emira Saet-rei. But in exchange for the safety of her defeated folk, she had agreed to a deal by the then-[Emperor]. She had vanished.

And the [Empress of Sands] had worn a new face from then on.

You didn’t need to be a genius to figure out a trend, especially since the [Emperor] had nearly a dozen faces. All of them String-Folk, by the way. The young man whose head was conversing with himself had been a fearsome [Lieutenant]. Now he was an [Emperor] and united in purpose with his other heads.

But each head was a different personality, a different strength. The [Empress] smiled down at her younger self.

“War in Terandria? It matters not at all. Unless you care to think of advantage. Terandria has always meddled. The nations of the continent will be more focused in that war. Perhaps there is even room to alter events.”

“What do I care?”

The young man’s tone was brash, unrepentant. The [Empress] sighed at herself.

“I care because all news is worth knowing.”

The young man’s head looked up at his smiling face.

“Put me on. And I will know all that is worth knowing.”

“No. I am impetuous when I wear you. And this is not a time for impetuousness. When I must lead a battle, you may come out.”

The head on the armrest glowered.

“I should be worn. He is out there. What care have I of Terandria when the King of Destruction hounds my dreams? When his vassal incites rebellion and musters other nations against me?”

The [Empress of Sands] sighed. It was true. Takhatres of the King’s Seven was a growing name in her vast, growing empire. She had sent armies against him specialized in defeating Garuda. After two battles in which he had dealt as much damage as his tribe had received, he had retreated. Now, he was a moving force, striking weak targets and worse—rallying enemies of the Empire of Sands against her.

And there were many. The [Empress of Sands] was expanding her reach, nation by nation. Alarmed, the other nations of Chandrar were mobilizing to curtail her power. The only reason why her name was not screamed across all of Chandrar as a watch-word was because one voice was louder.

“Flos of Reim.”

“His kingdom is still small. Put me on. And I will lead six of our armies across Zeikhal! The Great Desert is vast, but I have the resources. Let me crush him now, before he absorbs another nation.”

The younger head urged his older self. The [Empress] turned her head.

“No. I do not gamble with the fate of my empire. And even now, facing Flos of Reim and needing to march so far is a gamble. I will arm other nations with blades, but it is far better to create an empire so vast that he is helpless when we finally clash, rather than risk it all now.”

“I am a fool.”

The [Empress] glared at herself. It was, indeed, an odd sight, to see the ruler of a nation bickering like this. But whom else could she trust? The only voices she respected were her own.

And now they came, echoing down from the throne room. Both heads of the [Emperor of Sands] looked up. And listened.

“The King of Destruction is a mighty foe. Before I was [Emperor], I saw the extent of his might. I fought with him until he fell into his slumber. I should remember.”

“We do.”

Both heads glared up at a third disembodied head, sitting on a pedestal where it could watch all that passed in the throne room. The old [General] glared back.

“Put me on.”

“No, put me on.”

Another head, a grinning face twisted by a scar. The [Empress] eyed her other self distastefully.

“No, and no. Some of my selves were a thing of necessity. This head makes me a genius, but too ambitious by far. And this one—I regret adding so many aspects of myself at times. When I wear this head, I am debauched, murderous.”

She stared at the scarred head. He grinned at himself.

“But powerful.”

“If the King of Destruction were a head, what might I be if he was me?”

A third head mused quietly from her pedestal. Aside from the head she wore, there were only two female heads in her collection. The [Empress] thought that was a fault; because she had worn so many male heads, they kept adding to their number of their gender.

But she wore this head because all of her, even the male personalities, knew that this one was the most complete. The most reasonable, if not the best suited to personal combat, or war.

The [Empress of Sands] lifted a hand and the bickering heads quieted. She looked past them all as her attendants waited. They could replace her head at a moment’s notice, change her very body to suit her new form.

“Let us think. Flos of Reim. How do you kill such a man? We know so much. Yes.”

“Yes.”

“Everything there is to know.”

“Unless he has grown.”

The [Empress] nodded to herself.

“Which is why we know his flaw and strength. He could destroy me, perhaps even with six armies at my back. If he were prepared. If he saw me coming.”

“His [Army of the King].”

The young man’s head silently agreed. The other heads above fell silent, so that two of the [Empress’] thoughts could air themselves.

“It has a great flaw. But with it, even with a far smaller army, he could humble even Nerrhavia. That is why the other nations fear to invade, as much as his Seven. But if he uses it once, he is vulnerable.”

“It is not invincible. He used it at Reim. And he would have lost, but for the grand enchantment on his city! I did not know Drevish had created it!”

The [Empress’] face was sour and dark.

“He kept it from us. I should not have executed him. But I was wrathful and without reason when I wore you.”

She pointed up at the old [General]’s head. He did not respond to himself. The [Empress] shook her head.

“I will not wear that aspect of myself for a long time. If he had joined us—Flos of Reim might have fallen. But he used his Skill and he can use it again. If he is to fall, he must use his [Army of the King]—and then be slain before he is able to use it again.”

All of the [Empress’] heads murmured acknowledgement. The young man glowered.

“And so we do what? Wait, and try to hunt one of his vassals?”

“We grow.”

The whisper came from above. And even the [Empress] was silenced by herself. She nodded. She knew her other self’s thoughts and will, if not the nuance.

“Yes. We grow. This is the wrong game I think of when I wear my personalities of war. Clashing with Reim is foolhardy. Let other nations burn themselves against him. The Empire of Sands grows. As do I. And when the time is right, I shall throw every measure against the King of Destruction. Then, and only then, I will shout my name to the world.”

“And if I lose?”

The same whisper. The [Empress] looked up and met her own gaze. Dark amusement behind a ruined face. She nodded, acknowledging her dark humor. Her twisted desires that could sabotage herself. The head she had worn but once.

“Then I was not fated to rule Chandrar. But I do not believe I will lose. After all—”

She smiled.

“—I have perspective he does not.”

Half the heads groaned aloud. The [Empress of Sands] when she wore Saet-rei’s head had one great flaw; her love of poor puns. Indeed, the young man grumbled and glared as she placed him on a pedestal, to wait until she needed to be someone else.

“You wear your perspective too long, myself. I have little care for frivolity. Or my lovers. Make them female.”

He seemed offended. The [Empress] laughed. Attendants came into the throne room, bearing some of the heads away on pillows. The ruler of the Empire of Sands was said to be able to be in many places at once. And they were—just not in one piece. She called out, although she knew what she was going to say before she said it.

“I embrace all my lovers when I wear this head. My other selves are strong in cunning, war, leadership, and violence. But not love. Not empire. Now, I have work to do. Manage my empire, my selves. Plan cities. Lead, decide. Hunt the Lord of the Skies. Leave King of Destruction his dues. He has sworn peace.”

“It will never last.”

The [Empress] looked up at herself.

“He lost Tiqr to hold to his oath. Now, he is trapped by his words. Who would be foolish enough to force his hand now?”

She waited. But all the [Empress] heard was her own laughter.



—-



Flos Reimarch. The King of Destruction. Such a grand name and such a title for one man. But it was true he deserved it. Once upon a time, he had made other nations shake at the possibility of war. He had united a continent under one banner.

And it was Chandrar, the land of sand, often scorned because it lacked the richness of soil or the benefits of other nations who had caused other continents to fear what the desert-nations might do. That was what Flos Reimarch had done as a young man, until his slumber.

Now, he rode forth again. And his deeds were as notable in what he did directly—and what he inspired in other people. Flos Reimarch was like a stone in a stream; he distorted the current. People had to make plans around him, or be swept away.

The [Empress of Sands] was not the only one to make plans. But her sanguine discussions were different. She had power and space and time on her side. Other rulers had none of the above.

“The [Army of the King]. In regards to defeating the King of Destruction, that seems to be the common issue, along with his Seven.”

A man spoke heavily from his throne. His crown lay wearily upon his brow. No one answered him. He could hear whispers from the back of his court.

“Did you see the battle with the Wyverns at Pallass? A good show, that.”

“I missed it. I don’t keep a scrying orb at home. You must tell me about it. Wyverns? I don’t believe I know them.”

The [King] was fit. In mind and body. His hair was dark, brown—hardly like the fiery reds that Terandrians claimed was a sign of royal blood. But he had a trace of royalty in his appearance. His mother had passed down some traits via her Skills, and her son had been born without physical flaw.

Indeed, he was tall, handsome, even. The court below him had not had the benefit of bloodline-based Skills. But they were rich, so while some were portly, others could buy tonics or potions to achieve their desired form, despite being fleshy Humans. Or at the very least, illusion spells.

An exceedingly handsome man in his mid-thirties spoke up now. He was under an illusion spell. The [King] could see right through the magic at the more plain fellow beneath. He really didn’t need the illusion, that was the sad thing. He wasn’t that fat or ugly; it was just that he seemed to regard age as just as great a flaw.

“Your Majesty, surely it isn’t a topic worth worrying about? The King of Destruction has pledged peace. So long as no one offers him a cause for war, he is, in effect, helpless.”

There were murmurs of support from the court. The [King] didn’t shake his head. That was too dramatic a movement for such an intimate setting. Rather, he frowned slightly. Just a crease of the brow.

“Reim has Hellios and Germina. Surely you do not suggest the King of Destruction should be ignored, Warden Dulfe? With his Skill alone, he could sweep the Realm of Jecrass apart.”

The whispering went on.

“Huge, scaly beasts. These ones breathed ice of all things! Nearly took the city. Oh, and there was an Antinium.”

“Really? In Pallass? And ice? I wouldn’t mind such a monster to cool my drinks!”

“I actually have a recording of the battle. Wistram is selling these—these trinkets that play the entire thing on demand. They cost blood and water, but—”

“Ahem.”

A man standing next to the throne cleared his throat meaningfully. Geril, an old and faithful retainer to the [King], glanced over the court. The chattering ceased.

And the [King] sighed again. But through his nose. He sat with his back straight, his posture perfect. That was no difficult feat. The difficult feat was organizing his court to any semblance of serious discussion.

His name was Raelt. King Raelt of Jecrass, sworn protector of the Realms of Jecrass, guardian of horses, and all that. He occupied one of the nations bordering what was now the King of Destruction’s territory.

And he was not a happy man. Raelt went on, doggedly.

“The [Army of the King] is his most famous Skill. Believed to have been granted to the King of Destruction at Level 50. With it, he can transform any army into a force capable of wiping out one many levels above their own. In almost every major battle for the conquest of Chandrar, Flos Reimarch used it—once in a battle against an army five times his size. It is speculated that if he had landed on Izril as he had intended, he could have used it with his Seven to take the Walled City of Zeres.”

“Yes, your Majesty. But the King of Destruction has sworn an oath. Tiqr fell without his interference. Surely worrying about one Skill or—or strategizing is pointless? If he tries to invade any nation, all of Chandrar will fall on him.”

A breathy voice. Another River Warden. That was what the nobility of Jecrass were called, those who controlled, well, the rivers that made Jecrass so rich. Not in produce, but horses. Jecrass was known across the continent and perhaps the world as a place to buy good horses. They competed with nations in Terandria known for the same.

And the River Wardens would argue forever about the quality of their horse breeds versus Terandrian ones, but they couldn’t entertain the thought of the King of Destruction for more than ten minutes without gossiping. Raelt didn’t quite glare at Warden Winta.

“That may be so, Warden Winta. However, consider what might happen if the King of Destruction does break his oath. The armies of Chandrar fall upon him.”

“Yes, your Majesty?”

Another member of the court stared blankly up at Raelt. The [King] paused.

“What happens if he wins?”

The River Wardens fell silent. That was their problem, Raelt supposed. They were willing to gossip, to entertain petty rivalries. If another nation had threatened war, they’d shake their fists and some would be ready to fight to the death. But in the face of a true threat, the kind that would roll over Jecrass without a moment’s pause—they were terrified to even contemplate it.

“Surely, your Majesty jests. Nerrhavia borders Reim.”

“Indeed. And the [Army of the King] could destroy Nerrhavia’s armies in any one single battle. The flaw of his Skill is of course that the King of Destruction can only use it once every so often. But how often? No [Historian] agrees. The possibility exists that Jecrass may come to blows with the King of Destruction. If not invaded directly—as allies for when he forswears his oaths. Can we triumph over such a Skill, let alone his Seven?”

Raelt prodded his subjects. The River Wardens looked at each other, paling. The [King] smiled, politely and artificially.

“I have, of course, convened my trusted court to discuss the matter. It would not do to be unprepared.”

Dead silence. Raelt was waiting for one of his River Wardens to come up with a brilliant suggestion. They were, after all, peers of the realm, below only him in stature. The [King] regarded his subjects with great expectation—or at least, they assumed. Raelt was more trying not to fidget.

“The kingdom could increase its budget towards the army.”

One of the River Wardens muttered at last. He received instant looks of annoyance from his peers. They’d be funding that idea.

“An excellent suggestion, Warden Telimt. However, would that be enough? I would not wish to tax my River Wardens unduly.”

A few heads in the court brightened; the rest looked suspicious. That wasn’t the royal position…ever. But the [King] was smooth. He turned his head slightly, his posture unchanging.

“Is the scope of Jecrass’ army an issue, General Lael? Your thoughts? What would be the result in a scenario where the King of Destruction were to invade Jecrass?”

The court fell silent. Not all of those present were River Wardens. Now, a woman wearing armor stepped forwards and clasped one hand over her heart as she bowed smoothly.

General Lael, high commander of Jecrass’ armies, known for their emphasis on cavalry and speed, to guard the wide, open realm. She was a Level 27 [General], one of the highest-leveled assets of the Realm of Jecrass. Young too, in her early thirties.

“By your leave, your Majesty? I cannot fathom a scenario where Jecrass’ armies would triumph over Reim’s, even if the army were three times its current size. Not if the King of Destruction and his vassals rode together.”

Outraged murmurs. No one liked to hear that. But General Lael kept her gaze on her [King], reminding the River Wardens they were in his presence. Raelt regarded her.

“Honestly said, General Lael. Then, what would you do in an invasion scenario?”

He waited as she considered her response. The River Wardens eyed her nervously. Raelt could hear whispers.

“…not even Level 30…”

“…really the right sort? Perhaps if we sent for a commander from Baleros…”

Raelt ignored the whispers. [Generals] were a funny thing. Each nation had to have one supreme military commander—preferably more than one. A [King] could carry that role, but most weren’t specialized in or adapted to war, with a few notable exceptions. So you hired a [General].

But from where? If you were lucky, you had one from the last regime. But what happened if the [General] had been slain along with his [Queen], or, perhaps, started a coup? That was one of the questions no one had thought to teach Raelt when he’d first taken the throne.

As it happened, there were, in fact, actual wandering officers and even [Generals] who would come apply if they spotted a vacancy in a kingdom. Or you could send for them, see if they worked. And wasn’t that an odd thought?

‘Come on over, lead my armies for a year or two. See if we work well together. I’ll give you a nice horse.’ But it happened. That was how it worked. Sometimes it was a good [Warlord], or a [Colonel] serving in an army you could entice with the offer of a new class, an army to lead, and good pay.

Raelt had had a number of offers, from all over the world. [Strategists] from Baleros, mercenary commanders, a [General] serving in another army—it was a tricky choice. He could easily offend a distant or not-so-distant nation by poaching their leadership, and you had to be sure you could trust the person in charge of your armies.

In the end, Raelt had gone for the second route—promotion from within his own kingdom. But he’d put a twist on it and hired from the nation next door to his, the Republic of Belchan, a democracy known for its mage-schools and gold mines.

He’d promoted Lael because Jecaina, his daughter, had suggested her. And not just because she was a woman. [Commander] Lael had served in Belchan with distinction until she’d been disciplined for striking a [Politician] for what she claimed was a bribery attempt. She’d been demoted until Raelt had contacted her.

It was a good choice, and Raelt had hired Lael for loyalty over levels. Not that he was ever going to get a Level 40 [Firestorm General] without offering too much, but he could have gotten a Level 30+ one with some enticement. But loyalty was valuable, and Lael had proven herself over the years as incorruptible, at least to the River Wardens.

Today, though, Raelt did spare a wish for a [General] that might have made Flos Reimarch think twice. Lael was a good leader, but no one would ever call her…brilliant. Neither was she flawed, but a decent [General] without flaws wasn’t much to put up a [King] who was known as the ‘King of Destruction’.

Credit to Lael, she was not literally shaking in her boots at the prospect of fighting the King of Destruction. She swallowed hard before replying.

“In an invasion, your Majesty? I would decline any direct assault on Reim’s forces. The King of Destruction has his grand Skill, and his vassals are just as dangerous. I would instead splinter my armies, raiding and harassing Reim’s.”

“Not even an attack on one of his vassals? What if the King of Destruction splits his forces?”

Lael hesitated.

“Not even then, your Majesty. Each of King Reimarch’s vassals was considered to be on par with a [General].”

And they have about twice as many levels as I do. Or more. Raelt let that unspoken message from Lael sink in. The River Wardens were silent as he motioned Lael to go on.

“Then what, General Lael?”

“I would use Jecrass’ mounted armies to continue to push at Reim’s armies, wearing them down with fast raids, cutting off supplies where possible. I would not engage any of the Seven or the King of Destruction directly, and avoid any direct, prolonged conflict.”

“An army has to eat. They’d struggle to claim all of Jecrass with that kind of harassment. We do have the fastest cavalry.”

Warden Winta speculated. Some of the River Wardens murmured. Taking pride from this imaginary scenario. Raelt rolled his eyes in his head. Playing the listening [King], he motioned at Lael.

“But surely any war must come to a direct conflict. If Reim’s armies make for the capital—here, what would you do, General Lael? Muster the River Wardens and all forces, given your raids are effective?”

Another pause. The [General] was giving Raelt a look. She knew that he knew what her answer was. But she said it for everyone to hear.

“At that point, I would hope for reinforcements from other nations, your Majesty.”

A stir among the River Wardens. More outrage, but it was turning into nervousness. Raelt waited, his face grave.

“And if you had no reinforcements and just the armies of Jecrass at your disposal, General? And a battle was inevitable?”

A long swallow. Lael looked around and bowed again, clasping her fist to her heart.

“All things being equal, your Majesty? I would negotiate with the King of Destruction for the favorable surrender of Jecrass’ forces.”

“Treachery!”

Someone bellowed that on top of the loud gasps. Raelt raised one hand.

“General Lael has proven her loyalty over the years. General, would you not do battle at all?”

“Your Majesty. Had I an army ten times Jecrass’ size, the King of Destruction and his vassals would still have the advantage. Without his [Army of the King]—it would be a fair battle, one I would not care to take. With an army ten times Jecrass’ size.”

Lael repeated herself through bloodless lips. Raelt now heard only silence. You could be outraged, yes. But—he looked over his court. Many of them were as old as he. They remembered the King of Destruction before his slumber. Now—they did remember him. And try as they might, they couldn’t ridicule General Lael’s words.

If there were reinforcements from other nations. Without his [Army of the King]…a lot of ifs, for Jecrass to repel the King of Destruction. Raelt let the tension rise for a few seconds. Not too long, or he might be seen as fearful himself. Which was why, as he rose, he did so lightly.

“This council of strategy has been productive. I shall ruminate on what I have learned. And of course, my Wardens, I ask only that you act with all your wisdom towards the safety of Jecrass. The Realm is not at war with Reim. However, people claiming fealty to him are passing through the realm with each day.”

The court stirred. He’d whipped them into a frenzy of uncertainly and now he was dismissing them? But Raelt’s words reminded them of their grievances.

“These—these refugees are a blight, Lord Raelt. They’re responsible for thefts, they cause trouble, and they breed [Bandits]. Surely Jecrass should close its borders?”

A female River Warden protested. Raelt looked at her.

“Yes, Warden Cerani. I have noted your complaints, and I am not without sympathy. However—Flos Reimarch has declared all those who wish to join Reim his subjects. All of them. One wonders what might happen if they were to fall prey to accident or bandits? I trust you have all carried out the royal command to escort such groups?”

The River Wardens paled. They looked at each other. Warden Dulfe murmured.

“Only naturally, your Majesty. I’ve put out numerous escorts myself.”

“Excellent. We will give Reim no reason to quarrel with Jecrass. General Lael, let us discuss the matter of Jecrass’ armies later. But war is the least desired of our outcomes. It would not do to arouse the King of Destruction’s wrath.”

Raelt nodded, and his servant, Geril, dismissed the court. They went, murmuring nervously. More than one looked at General Lael as she bowed and knelt before the throne. Perhaps, she was discussing in detail some secret plan. But against the King of Destruction? They thought about the bands of refugees.

The King of Destruction had proclaimed peace. He would make no war, unless his kingdom or his people were attacked. And he had also demanded that any people in any nation who claimed loyalty to him be given free passage to Reim.

Outrageous demands, but he had kept his word as Tiqr fell. And now more and more of his people were actually coming, making the long journey across the continent. The River Wardens had been annoyed at the caravans passing through their borders. And they had conveniently forgotten Raelt’s decree to give them aid. Now though…

“Thank you, [General]. That will be all.”

King Raelt had no secret conference with General Lael. She saluted, still pale in the face. She had not liked giving such a blunt answer. But Geril came forwards, bowing.

“Well done, sire. I believe they will begin patrolling and guarding the refugees more studiously now.”

“One can only hope, Geril. General Lael, you have my gratitude.”

“I spoke only the truth, your Majesty. But I would like to increase the army by another five thousand. At least.”

The woman bowed towards Raelt. He paused.

“Let the River Wardens stew on the thought of an invasion another week, General Lael. But go ahead and make readiness.”

She bowed. Raelt sighed.

“You are dismissed. Geril.”

He left his throne room. Raelt felt extraordinarily tired, as if he’d been at his personal practice court for a few hours. But meeting with his royal court was just as tiring.

Outside of his throne room, Raelt was a bit less kingly. He was still a [King], but he walked with alarming speed. Raelt moved fast when he wasn’t on parade before his subjects and his [Head Servant], Geril, had to hurry fast to keep up. The [King] was actually a fairly athletic sort, and so joined the group of people who thought speed-walking was an optimal way to go about life.

“All that to make a point. Get me an orange, Geril. I’m going to hit one of them with it.”

It was Raelt’s hobby to eat half-rotten oranges and then accidentally toss them out the windows of his palace and hit visitors exiting his castle. He was headed towards the Sunset Retreat corridor, where he could ‘accidentally’ brain one of his subjects with a fruit. Unfortunately, his huffing elderly aide, Geril, had to stop his [King].

“I’m afraid we are out of oranges, sire. You went through them all this week.”

“All? I thought the [Gardener] had a huge plot of oranges. He knows how much I…love them.”

Raelt hated oranges. He hated a number of things in his kingdom. His River Wardens, oranges, and horses. Ironic since Jecrass had all three in profusion. Geril ducked his head apologetically.

“Apparently there was an infestation of fruit flies.”

“That’s fine by me. Bring me five.”

“I’m afraid the [Gardener] destroyed the fruits, your majesty.”

Raelt sighed. He’d have eaten a nasty bit of fruit if it meant he could hit some of his wardens with them. Accidentally. But it was just as well—they were starting to catch on to all the ‘accidents’. Raelt’s love of fruits was well-known, but there were limits to how long you could get away with it.

“Very well. In that case, I will retire to my quarters.”

“Very good, your Majesty. Shall I prepare a refreshment?”

“Water.”

Raelt left his servant, a man who had helped raise him as a child to go issue orders. The [King] walked through his castle, acknowledging servants unconsciously. It was his home, and he was used to being a [King]. In fact, so trained was Raelt that he only let out an angry sigh and let his royal façade slip when he was in his rooms. Then he pounded one knee before the water arrived.

Dead gods damn it, they had an army! And Jecrass had been to war during Raelt’s reign! General Lael had fought some splendidly mundane battles against Jecrass’ northern neighbors, pushing back incursions into Jecrass. But Jecrass hadn’t fought in any major wars since…well, they’d been part of the King of Destruction’s empire.

Raelt thanked the young boy who’d delivered the pitcher and poured himself a cup. He drank gratefully; Jecrass was blessed with more water than the southern nations like Hellios or Reim thanks to its rivers, but Chandrar was a hot, dry place. And water was a luxury. Rhir’s hells, they even sold some water each month to Khelt.

Was that a bad idea now that Khelt was at least marginally cooperating with the King of Destruction? Perhaps he should ask his friend, the ruler of Belchan, Prime Minister Lyfelt if it was a bad move to continue trade. Lyfelt was a political person; he would know. But—Fetohep paid dearly for water that Jecrass could spare. And with increasing the funds to Lael’s armies…

Raelt’s head hurt, so he pressed a cool bit of ice from the pitcher against his forehead. Another extravagance, but there were chilling spells to produce some of the precious ice in the cellars. The [King] let his head work over the issue of water. And in his way, he too was ignoring the huge problem.

Flos Reimarch. Raelt had convened his court to make them take the refugees crossing Jecrass’ borders seriously. He hadn’t really entertained a war with Reim. Because…what could you do?

“The [Army of the King].”

Raelt bowed his head as he sat on his silken bed sheets. Restlessly, he got up. Maybe he’d practice a bit with the sword. He was fairly good with one, and it calmed him down. But he couldn’t help but feel anxious. If it came to a war—he and Lael were in agreement. The King of Destruction wouldn’t be stopped with Jecrass’ armies.

“Even a combined military force—you’d have to bait him into using that Skill. It could destroy an army many times his size. But how do you allow that to happen when his vassals could win a battle for him? You’d need—two huge armies. One just large enough to force him to use it—and then that army is gone, and his army’s leveled up, so the second one has to be able to defeat him before he retreats and has time to use it again—”

The [King] did a slow lunge, letting his muscles relax as he moved his legs. He actually exercised quite often, even without the sword. He had to do it in private, though; the sight of a [King] doing exercises like shuffling his feet across a room was considered ‘unkingly’. And part of being a [King] was your public image.

Something went pop as Raelt stretched his body. He grimaced. Raelt was not a young man anymore, a thought which was mildly peeving to the [King]. His daughter, Jecaina, was twenty two, and acted like she was still in her teens at times. But Raelt himself was exactly forty years old. He supposed that was still a bit young, for a [King]. But his father had been scarcely older when he’d died.

His father, [King] Meriden Leysars of Jecrass had been a good [King]. Beloved by all, popular with the people, a decent fighter, a good father, and wise enough to know to bow to the King of Destruction. He had a statue in Raelt’s palace, and one in three cities. Raelt had commissioned half of them, himself, but he’d been pleased when the other two popped up.

King Meriden had seen the King of Destruction rise to power and he hadn’t gone to war when a young Flos Reimarch had marched towards Jecrass with an army thrice as large as Jecrass’ at his back. He’d pledged Jecrass as a vassal to Flos, and in doing so, preserved his country from pillaging and reaped some of the benefits of Flos’ growing power.

Of course, then there had been reparations after the King of Destruction had entered his slumber and like all nations, Jecrass had fallen into a decline, but Meriden had weathered it well and brought Jecrass through the turmoil.

For a short while. Meriden had died of a heart failure a few years after the King of Destruction had entered his slumber. Peacefully. Still…still too young. [Prince] Raelt, then a young man barely past his majority enjoying peace in Terandria, had been summoned home. He’d found his father dead, and his mother, rest her soul, followed soon thereafter.

That left the young [King] Raelt with a kingdom to manage, a new class, and uncertainty. And to cap it all off—his half-sister had helpfully abandoned her royal class for a love-marriage, and then abandoned her baby in the royal palace.

He’d done it all, back then. Raelt stared at the ceiling. And somehow, he’d never gotten a wife. Which was fine. He had a daughter. And he’d been so busy trying to measure up to his father’s legacy without knowing how.

King Meriden had been a good man. Fond of horses, unlike his son. He’d had all kinds of royal advice, although neither he nor Raelt had expected him to die so soon. But what he’d imparted had mostly been how to rule a kingdom…in horse analogies.

‘A kingdom is like riding a horse, Raelt…’

‘You can know a good man to trust by the way he treats his horse…’

‘War’s like horses…’

Some of it had been good, sensible advice. But Raelt wished he’d sat his father down as a young man and said—

“Look, father. Can you just give me a list of things to do and not to do? How do I handle trade negotiations with Belchan? What’s a good tariff to put on Terandrian goods? How do you discipline the River Wardens without them making a huge stink and trying to withhold taxes?”

Raelt muttered at the ceiling. He could almost imagine his father’s response. Raelt wished his face were clearer, but he had to look at a picture these days to capture everything. Time…

‘The River Wardens are like horses, Raelt. All of ‘em bastards who need a bit, a bridle, and a carrot to go with the sticks up their asses.’

The [King] smiled and laughed as he lifted his sword and did a careful lunge, to avoid hitting one wall. The problem with analogies was this: a kingdom was like a horse, until it wasn’t. Because it was a damned kingdom. Still, Raelt managed as best he could.

His father had been a good ruler. A good [King], and a good man. Raelt knew that because he’d investigated after he’d gotten to know his new position. It was a terrible thing, to ask. But every nation had secret records. Another thing that no one told you.

But he had been a good sort, the late Meriden. He hadn’t done terrible things. Just made normal, mundane faults. Raelt had discovered his three illegitimate siblings, arranged to meet them without their knowing, and ensured they’d live comfortably without ever knowing their relations to the crown. His half-sister was bad enough. She had only one good thing in this world. And, true to her nature, she’d left it behind.

Ding. Raelt paused with sword in hand as someone thrust open the doors to his chambers. Not his bedroom; he had a royal suite.

Few people could do that. Raelt had guards on the doors who announced almost everyone, a magical key, and his rooms were warded against [Assassins] and so on. General Lael, Geril, and a handful of others could just walk in. Like Jecaina, [Princess] of Jecrass.

Raelt knew his daughter was approaching by the chiming of her bell. And as she strode into his private study, Raelt walked out to meet her.

Jecaina had hazel-green hair, because she took after her mother, Raelt’s half-sister. Green hair was fairly abnormal, but not too much. Jecaina, like her father, was tall. And she was just as quick and limber. She wore a tunic and leggings, to move about freely in. And at her waist sat an enchanted foil, a [Fencer]’s weapon, and a silver bell, attached to the handle.

She never went anywhere without the bell. It was a mark of skill, which meant her skill as a [Fencer] was recognized the world over. Jecaina wore it proudly.

Raelt, as it had been established, hated horses almost as much as his River Wardens and oranges. He also hated bells.

“Father? Oh good, you’re done with your court.”

Jecaina greeted her father brusquely. She had something in her hand and Raelt’s honed father-senses told him immediately she wanted something. Jecaina was in her wild years; Raelt could empathize. As a [Princess], she was doing what most [Princes] did in their youths—travel about, explore the world, before they had to become [Kings].

Raelt had gone to Terandria before his youth had been cut short. Jecaina wanted to go to Terandria, but Raelt wasn’t sure he trusted her judgment yet. She’d nearly worn him down before the King of Destruction had awoken, and then she’d kept begging to ride to Reim and meet him herself. She had somehow fallen in love with the idea of the King of Destruction, the legend of Chandrar. Just another reason to resent the man.

But today, Jecaina was more intent on something in her hand. She thrust it at Raelt’s face.

“Father, you must listen to this. Mellia just brought it to me.”

“What is it? And hello, Jecaina.”

“Hello, father. It’s a recording crystal! It holds sound! Look! It’s by the Queen of Pop!”

Raelt went over to a plush armchair and sat down in it. He waved at the fireplace and magical fires sprang to life. Jecaina stood in front of him, expectantly, her eyes glittering with excitement. Raelt sighed.

“Is she an actual [Queen], Jecaina?”

“She might as well be. She’s the greatest [Singer] to ever have been born in ten thousand years! She has tons of albums, and everyone’s talking about her! Listen! Wait—I think you play it—”

Jecaina began to fumble with the magical artifact. Raelt watched her. She definitely wanted him to pay for more. He sighed.

“What’s an ‘album’? Jecaina, it has been a long day and—”

Music began to play from the crystal. Raelt jumped as a female voice began to sing. But not just a female voice. Raelt had heard musical instruments, but the concept of a bass or guitar was new.

As was the style of the song. The [Singer] had an accompaniment, and a beat. And—Raelt stared at Jecaina as she smiled.

It was of course, pop. A song from another world. But Raelt didn’t know that. He only knew that was a foreign song. Jecaina began dancing a bit. Raelt stared at her. His own foot began to tap to the beat, but he caught himself.

“Well?”

When the first song ended, Jecaina insisted on playing another one. Raelt liked the first song, but the second one got on his nerves. His daughter seemed to enjoy it, though.

“It’s quite original. Is this some new musical trend? Where’s it from?”

“Terandria! There’s a famous [Singer] there! And she has these—these recordings! Albums, they’re called! This is only a three-song recording. But she has tons of them!”

“Well, I’m sure a [Bard] will begin playing them soon enough.”

Raelt temporized, knowing where this was going. Jecaina scoffed.

“You can’t copy her music! Did you hear the drums? And the other things? She’s got new instruments, they say!”

The [King] had to admit he couldn’t see a [Bard] or even a performing troupe imitating the strange style he’d heard. He sighed.

“The Realm’s finances are stretched, Jecaina…you have an allowance.”

“I know that!”

His daughter sounded hurt, but Raelt didn’t miss the flicker in the crown princess’ gaze. She paused, clearly rethinking.

“You could…invite her to Jecrass. People would pay to see her! And she’s only in Terandria, for now. She might listen to a [King], if you requested it.”

“Might?”

Raelt looked at his daughter. She shrugged.

“She’s famous. She’s played for royalty! She’s all the rage in Terandria.”

“Well, I suppose I could write a letter. Then again, if you wanted to travel…it’s a bit tricky in Terandria I hear, with Ailendamus, but Lyfelt assures me it would be safe. Why not? You could bring some of your friends.”

Raelt muttered, trying to weigh the risks of sending Jecrass’ [Princess] abroad versus keeping her here. Jecaina brightened—and then frowned at her father.

“Oh no. I want to meet the King of Destruction first.”

“Jecaina—”

“If I beat you in a duel, how about it? I’m not going to swear myself to his service, father.”

Jecaina drew her foil and pointed it at her father’s chest. The [King] ignored the threat to his life and sighed.

“Jecaina—”

“He’s sworn to peace! And you said you met him! You never talk about him, but the other River Wardens say you and grandfather fought in his armies.”

“Twice! Jecaina, the answer’s no.”

“What will he do, imprison me?”

“It’s not you, it’s the politics of the matter.”

His daughter rolled her eyes. The [Fencer]-[Princess] shook her head.

“You’ve been in the vault, talking with Lyfelt with your statues again.”

“He’s my neighbor and a fellow ruler. I trust his counsel, Jecaina. Moreover, I wouldn’t put it past you to challenge one of the King of Destruction’s Seven to a duel.”

“Who, me?”

Jecaina innocently cooled herself with one of the magical fans that young people loved to wear. Raelt glared at his daughter.

“This is exactly what I’m talking about, Jecaina. You are a [Princess]! And aside from politics—you’re overestimating your skills. A silver bell does not mean you’re equivalent to one of the King’s Seven.”

The [Princess] opened her mouth and imitated Raelt lecturing until he glared at her.

“I know that! But I can’t train my class on most people in the kingdom! Just one trip, father. And then—I’ll go to Terandria and meet the Queen of Pop and learn from [Fencers] there.”

Her eyes glittered with eagerness. Raelt felt a father’s despair and worry over his daughter. And stubbornly ignored all thoughts that he’d been like her when he was young. Geril kept mentioning it, but the old man was growing senile.

This was King Raelt’s day. He was probably a good [King], although he just took it one day at a time and planned for the next days. But like everyone else, he was moved and influenced by the King of Destruction. Flos was always there, a reminder, even though his kingdom had been quiet since summer began.

Until the moment he wasn’t just a reminder.

Daughter and parent were arguing lightly when the door burst inwards. Both turned, and both had swords in hand. Geril raced into the room, panting.

“Your Majesty!”

“Geril?”

Jecaina lowered her sword in astonishment. Raelt had already sheathed his.

“What is it, Geril?”

The elderly man was clutching at his chest, and Raelt feared he’d had a heart attack. Raelt was already reaching for one of the personal potions he carried. But Geril strode over to his [King]. There was shouting coming from the corridors. Jecaina and Raelt stared at him as the man gasped to speak.

“It’s—there is word from the borders! He is on the move! Heading here!”

“Who?”

“The King of Destruction. He’s leading a vast army! And his [Steward] and Mars the Illusionist!”

King Raelt of Jecrass froze. And his daughter’s jaw dropped. Raelt looked at Geril, and felt normality die. He was always there, in the background. Until he strode onto your stage and took your breath away. For a moment, Raelt wavered. Then he rose.

“Summon the River Wardens. Find General Lael! And—send a [Message] to Belchan! To Nerrhavia!”



—-



“Is it war?”

The halls of Raelt’s palace ran with the question. King Raelt asked it himself, as he stood in the war room with General Lael and Geril. Jecaina hovered in the background. No one had sent her out, and she deserved to be here. Some of the River Wardens who hadn’t left yet were present as well. But Raelt only had attention for his manservant and [General].

“General Lael, is it war?”

“No, your Majesty.”

“You’re sure?”

Lael licked her lips.

“Absolutely. The King of Destruction is flying the banner of truce. And he’s sent ahead messengers, a City Runner—he’s come to parley.”

Raelt exhaled. He looked around, some of the tightness in his chest easing.

“With an army.”

“Yes, sire. But I have this missive—and he is flying the banner—”

“Is the army deployed?”

River Warden Winta squeaked. Her face was dead-white. General Lael nodded.

“I’m placing them at the border, but holding back several miles. We do not wish to cause an incident—”

“Pull them back further.”

“Your Majesty!”

Raelt ignored the River Wardens. He looked at Lael.

“He has his [Steward] and Mars the Illusionist?”

“Yes, sire. But he is flying a banner. He wishes to parley with you. The missive—”

Geril offered it to Raelt. The [King] read it. He looked at General Lael. It was useless to ask her again. Raelt tried to think.

“So, he’s coming here. I’ll have to meet him.”

“Your Majesty?”

Everyone stared at Raelt. The [King] gritted his teeth.

“It’s just like him. Inform my River Wardens. We will ride to the border with a small escort.”

“But if it’s a trap—”

“Flos Reimarch doesn’t set traps. He’s coming to parley. Literally, to parley. Geril, send riders ahead to announce my arrival. How soon until he reaches the border?”

“He is using a Skill and marching his army fast. He should be there within six hours—”

“Very well. My River Wardens, you may bring a small escort, but no more than…twenty a person.”

“But sire, if it is a trap—”

“Then he is forsworn! But he won’t set a trap. That’s not Flos!”

Raelt snapped. The unexpected heat made River Warden Dulfe pause. There was a pause, then an excited voice.

“I’ll go too!”

Jecaina was adjusting her belt, eyes shining with excitement. Raelt looked at her, and then at Lael.

“General Lael, confine my daughter to the palace under guard.”

“Father!”

“You will not meet the King of Destruction. We will see him at the border, entertain his delegation, and send him away. He has no cause to attack, and whatever he wishes, Jecrass will refuse him.”

The [King] spoke firmly. The River Wardens were nodding. Jecaina was outraged.

“He is at our border! As crown princess—”

“You should be safe. In case I should fall. General Lael. Geril, come with me.”

The [King] felt bad, and knew he’d never hear the end of it, but Jecaina’s protests fell behind him as he strode through his palace. It was like someone had kicked over a beehive. River Wardens were racing back to the throne room, terrified, and more messengers were coming in second by second.

But Raelt was a [King], even if he wasn’t the most powerful one in the region. His attendants, led by Geril, closed ranks. Raelt was riding out of his palace towards the border within twenty minutes, and everyone had to catch up.

Half of the palace’s garrison was riding with Raelt, and General Lael herself. [Riders] were racing across Jecrass’ flatlands, calling for the army to muster. And still—Raelt rode, listening as messengers raced for him.

In truth, he didn’t need to do much. His role was to ride, and his people handled mundane tasks. That was—until the [Messages] started coming in, and City Runners started racing towards him.

“Your Majesty, the Empress of Sands is requesting an audience!”

“What?”

Raelt spun on his saddle. Geril himself rode forwards, pale-faced. Raelt stared at the proffered speaking stone. Then he heard a babble of voices.

“Prime Minister Lyfelt is speaking, your Majesty. He requests a moment of your time at utmost urgency!”

“Medain’s High King—”

“Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia’s Fallen—”

“Two Archmages—”

“Enough!”

Raelt stared at the first speaking stone. Then he took it.

“I am King Raelt of Jecrass, ruler of the Realm of Jecrass, Guardian of the Rivers and First Rider of the Fields. To whom am I speaking?”

A female voice answered him, soft, but piercing. Sound fell away as Raelt listened.

“King Raelt, I am Empress of Sands, ruler of my empire. I greet you and Jecrass. I have received word of the King of Destruction’s army. May we speak?”

She gave no list of titles, nor her name. The hairs on Raelt’s neck rose. He’d heard of her.

“Empress of Sands. I greet you and your empire. To what do I owe the honor?”

“The King of Destruction. I offer you the full support of my empire should he threaten your borders. As for his intent? Let us speak briefly, your Majesty. I would not wish to take from your pressing situation.”

Briefly, they spoke. Raelt felt sweat beading his forehead as he listened, replied briefly. He closed with a simple, hurried farewell.

“May the rivers never run dry, Empress of Sands. I am—grateful for your assurances and I shall bear them in mind. Until next we speak.”

He looked at Geril as the conversation ended.

“How many are waiting for…?”

The [Head Servant] held up two hands. Raelt stared.



—-



Two hours later, Raelt finished with half of the people waiting to talk to him. He’d gotten through a number of conversations, some long, but the list of people waiting to converse with him at once had multiplied. Still, Raelt’s initial worry—a [King] did not panic—had subsided once he figured out what they wanted.

Almost all the conversations went the same way. Raelt impatiently spoke into the scrying orb.

“You have my word, Queen Yisame. I have no idea what has prompted King Reimarch, but Jecrass has taken no action towards Reim thus far.”

The beautiful [Queen] pursed her lips, perhaps at his brusque tone. Raelt tried to reconfigure his expression and tone, but this was the eighth such conversation he’d had.

“If the King of Destruction is unwise, Nerrhavia Fallen will of course take suitable action, your Majesty.”

“Thank you, your Majesty. I shall bear it in mind. I see my [General] calling me. May the rivers never run dry.”

Raelt pretended Geril had cut the transmission as Yisame replied. Diplomacy was not Raelt’s forte, and half of these rulers he’d met but once, or never. He’d spoken to two Archmages an hour ago! Dead gods!

“Who’s next, Geril? No—unless they’re as important as Yisame, tell them I’m busy.”

Geril was fumbling with the magical speaking stones. A Courier had raced towards Raelt to deliver one personally!

“Well, that would leave—four, your Majesty.”

“Give one to me, then.”

The [King]’s head ached. He collected himself, put a smile on his face as he took the next scrying orb which was being set to someone else. Raelt stared into the blank magic glass as he waited.

The conversations were the same. The [Empress] had unnerved Raelt at first, but she hadn’t been that different from the rest.

What all these important rulers and leaders wanted was to do three things: firstly, ask what the hell the King of Destruction was doing marching towards Jecrass. Then, assure Raelt that he would not lack for support in rebuffing the King of Destruction. Finally, making sure that was what Raelt intended, instead of giving Flos any kind of aid.

They said it directly, indirectly, with flattery or veiled threats in Yisame’s case. But their individual skill at diplomacy aside, Raelt had heard the same refrain repeated so many times the other rulers were rather stepping on each other’s toes.

They ‘would take action’, or ‘would stand by allies of old’. No definitive promises, the kind you could nail down with a Skill or recording or spell. The truth was—Raelt was a [King] so he thought he knew what they were thinking—they had no idea what Flos Reimarch was doing either and they didn’t like it.

But it was Jecrass that Reim was marching on. And Raelt was heading right for the King of Destruction and, apparently, an army of sixty thousand.

Small, in short. Just a small…army…led by Flos Reimarch himself, and his [Steward], Orthenon, the Left Hand of the King of Destruction. Oh, and Mars the Illusionist, his [Vanguard].

Raelt didn’t like the taste of fear in his mouth.



—-



They reached the border within five hours. Raelt had his own movement Skills and Jecrass’ horses rode fast down the roads. An army was already waiting at the borders. Tens of thousands of [Soldiers], and more riding in every second.

All mounted. That was for speed, and General Lael had confided in her [King], to allow the army to fall back if worst came to worst.

Which it would not. Everyone was certain of that. And ‘everyone’ had the luxury of not being Raelt. The urgent demands for a chat had stopped, at least, and now Raelt waited with his army as more River Wardens appeared.

They came. That was the fascinating thing. Raelt half-expected some of them to pretend they weren’t able to make it, or that they’d missed the [Messages] and [Messengers]. But the River Wardens came, some with their entire army at their backs. Not a one stayed back.

He was…proud of that. Even if the River Wardens were convincing themselves that this would just be a show of Jecrass’ might. Already they’d brought double the army Flos was leading and it looked to be three times as large in the next few minutes as another River Warden arrived, bringing tens of thousands of troops.

Raelt was giving orders. Flos’ army was slowing as it approached the border and the [King] wanted nothing to go wrong.

“We will ride as I instructed, River Warden Telimt. Twenty followers per River Warden. No—ten. After the greeting.”

“Your Majesty, a show of force might make the King of Reim think twice—”

“Force? Show him what?”

Raelt stared incredulously at the River Warden. Telimt fell silent. Raelt turned his head.

“No one is to offer any provocation. On pain of death. No matter what is said, understood?”

The River Wardens nodded silently. Raelt looked past them.

An army waited at the borders. Ranks of [Riders], horses nervous and antsy. Tens of thousands. Hundreds of thousands.

Nearly a hundred and seventy thousand [Soldiers] were present, and nearly half of them mounted. It was a huge portion of Jecrass’ military might. Jecrass had fought powerful nations before, like Medain, the Kingdom of Adventurers to the north. It had a powerful army.

Indeed, the River Wardens seemed to take heart from the host. More than one group began blowing horns, cheering as in the distance, the King of Destruction’s army was sighted.

First they were a shadow in the distance. Then, a growing number. Distant shapes. Raelt declined to use a vision-enhancing tool.

“The army of Reim is spotted! Sixty thousand and some! Mostly infantry!”

“Infantry? We could sweep them aside with just the horse!”

One of the River Wardens joked. The others were relaxing. Raelt did not. He looked at Geril. His oldest and closest retainer sat on the horse. He hadn’t armed himself; neither had Raelt, save for his sword. This wasn’t a battle, but both had seen it before.

“Geril, is Jecaina still locked up in the palace? I wouldn’t put it past her to try and escape.”

“She’s there, your Majesty.”

“You’re sure?”

“I had her locked in the vaults. General Lael’s [Soldiers] are ensuring she doesn’t escape.”

The father almost smiled. His daughter would tear down his palace to know she’d missed this. But—he stared ahead.

“Only sixty thousand.”

Someone murmured. The air was hot, and it almost felt silly, such a vast army three times as large as the one coming towards them. But then—Raelt almost felt like the aggressor, coming to bear on the force that had become more than a distant shape.

The army of Reim did not spread out to fill the horizon. They marched in a long, winding column. And were made almost ridiculously small by the host of Jecrass by, say, anyone watching from a scrying spell. Which was probably half the world at this point.

Jecrass’ army began to cheer and blow its horns as the army of Reim approached. They set up such a din that Raelt’s own horse nearly unseated him as it reared. But the cacophony was impressive. Here, the army roared! Here is Jecrass!

And on came the King of Destruction’s army. A smaller force, on foot. Their armor did not shine with magic like in the legends they told. They were not an uncountable legion. Those watching, the River Wardens, the invisible watchers, even Jecaina from the vault where she was imprisoned, might have felt let down. A legend was just that.

Raelt waited. And as Jecrass’ triumph died down, hoarse voices subsiding, the silent march of Reim’s army began to take on a presence of its own. They were growing larger, now. And if you looked hard—

You could see him. A figure sitting at the front of his army, like a character from a story. An idiot, you might say, since he was without protection and you could easily shoot an arrow at him. But at his left rode a gaunt man as serious as the blade he carried.

Orthenon, the King’s Steward. And at his right, a beautiful woman, dressed in gleaming armor.

Mars the Illusionist.

Yet distant. Ordinary people. Even the distant [King] seemed too small. But what was he supposed to do, fill the horizon? He certainly had the ego for that, but the man himself was just a man. That was what the River Wardens murmured.

Yet onwards the army came. Now, there was silence. And Raelt began to feel something in the air. Something he, as a [King] identified, but the others didn’t realize was holding their voices down.

A presence. Pressure. An aura so vast it held down Jecrass’ army from cheering. Now came Reim’s army. And when they were close enough to fully behold, twenty minutes or so, there was sound.

“Is that…singing?”

Warden Winta started, staring ahead. The army of Reim seemed silent. But the rumble of so many footsteps had another layer of sound. Deep tones, like the largest of bells. Raelt watched.

Then, his eyes widened as figures distinguished themselves out of the mass of bodies. At first, you missed them from so far away. But the small Humans who marched in rank and file were not the singers.

It was them. Figures who towered over their smaller kin. Tall folk. Raelt heard a bass tone, female, as loud as the beating of his heart. He looked ahead. And the Humans realized some of the distant figures were much taller than the rest of the army.

They kept growing. Tall figures growing taller. Unbelievably high, as they covered the ground with long, slow strides. The fast-marching Humans could barely keep up with a single stride, even with a Skill hastening their steps. And onwards, they grew.

“Impossible. They can’t be that tall. They can’t—”

They were not all of equal height. But the smallest stood nine feet tall. The largest? Raelt looked up at a figure…thirty feet tall. Maybe more. She carried an axe on her back, a weapon larger than he was. And she was only…half. Maybe even but a quarter of the legend.

She alone shook the earth. And she rose. Perhaps Reim’s army had used an illusion to hide her at first. Mars the Illusionist smiled as the laughing, singing woman walked on, behind the [King]. And her kin walked with her, with footsteps and song that shook the earth.

Half-Giants. They strode ahead of the infantry, singing like the hills themselves had voices. They carried long axes or weapons. Some marched with great staves, and magic shone in their eyes. They rose, shedding the illusion that had made them look like a normal army.

The kindred of giants. Some were…small. Nine feet, eight feet. Most were no taller than sixteen, or twenty. But in a few, the old blood of giants ran strong.

Giants. They had walked the world once. And they lived now. Raelt looked up at a laughing face. And she sang and the earth shook. Sang a song for the King of Destruction.

“The Nomads of the Sky.”

Jecrass’ vast army looked up. Horses stared at the folk who had been made of mountains. Or so the legends said. Once, Giants had walked Terandria and every continent, taller than castles. Now, their descendants roamed Chandrar. And their blood was faint, diminishing with each generation.

But it still roared. The Nomads of the Sky hoisted their weapons and shouted as the army of Reim approached. They spread out to the left and right of the King of Destruction, and the beasts of Jecrass tried to flee their laughter and music.

“Steady. Steady—”

More wings of the army were moving in concert. Behind the half-Giants, walking peacefully in unison were a few dozen…[Mages]. They walked with no staves, but parasols, each one colored art, twirling as they followed their [King]. As one, the [Mages] twirled their magical parasols, and Raelt saw them unfold.

Parasol Stroll. The [Mages] were followed by a laughing army of String Folk. Each one who rode or walked with vivid designs of serpents and the bright colors of poison etched on their armor and skin.

The Serpent Hunters. Raelt recognized the other company famed for its use of venom. He looked around. Jecrass’ army was silent. That pressure was—growing.

The King of Destruction was riding slowly. Straight towards Raelt. His half-Giants were still singing, but they abruptly fell silent. And a group of soldiers wearing dark armor marched forwards, flanking the [King]’s advance.

They were just a few hundred. But their blank faces and perfect movement was as unsettling as the Nomads of the Sky. Each one’s face was covered by a visor that let no one glimpse their faces. Their armor was dark, unnaturally so. And they seemed to be staring right at Raelt. Right at him. He felt like he could feel their gazes from behind their visors. An unending stare.

“The Rustängmarder. The army that doesn’t die or retreat.”

General Lael was staring at the elite [Soldiers]. Uneasily. Raelt nodded as well. He’d heard the rumors. And he had seen them fight. His skin crawled.

“Only a company of them. They won’t stop even if all their limbs are broken. You’d have to wear them down with arrows and magic, retreat, wait for them to die—”

Some of his River Wardens were staring at him. Raelt realized he was holding his sword’s hilt.

“We’re not here to do battle.”

He said it as much for himself as everyone present. But now the pressure was pushing down on him. Raelt stared at the man riding forwards.

The army of Reim halted on Jecrass’ border, a few hundred paces away from Jecrass’ army. They were small, compared to Jecrass’ might. But no one was jesting. The Nomads of the Sky waited, leaning on their weapons. The Rustängmarder paused, a line in front of the other [Soldiers].

And Flos Reimarch rode forwards. Orthenon and Mars waited as he rode forth a few dozen paces. The [King] looked ahead.

“A show of force.”

Raelt murmured. His was the only voice. The pressure intensified.

Slowly, Flos Reimarch raised his hand. He clenched one fist as Jecrass’ army watched. And his army roared.

“King of Destruction!”

Beneath him, Raelt’s horse suddenly reared at the sound. Panicked, it tried to turn. Swearing, the [King] fought it down. Jecrass’ entire army was in chaos as animals suddenly tried to flee. He heard shouting, confusion—then silence.

Flos Reimarch was riding further forwards still. He was grinning. That damned [King]. Raelt saw him spreading his arms, as if welcoming the army of Jecrass. He stopped and bellowed at Raelt, at Jecrass, and the invisible listeners in the sky.

“I am Flos Reimarch, the King of Destruction! King of [Kings]! Look upon my army, ye mighty and despair!”

Ridiculous words. But he bellowed them at the sky. And then he laughed. He laughed, as if it was all one great joke. But no one on Jecrass’ side could say a word. Raelt saw Flos Reimarch’s eyes fall on him. The [King] of Jecrass stood with his back straight, refusing to bend. But the pressure was aimed at more than him.

“I ruled Chandrar. And I have awoken from my slumber. I am your king.”

Three facts. Flos Reimarch raised a hand. And Raelt saw his army kneel.

Not all at once. [Riders] bowed in the saddle. Others fought their horses as even the animals began to take a knee. [Soldiers] fell to their knees in pockets.

“Stand! Stand!”

[General] Lael was bellowing, riding down the ranks of her army, urging her forces to their feet. They did so, staring. But it was hard.

The Nomads of the Sky towered over the army of Jecrass. The Rustängmarder waited, the army of the repentant, who had embraced their deaths. Orthenon and Mars sat, as he laughed.

Here was a legend in the flesh. Just a man. A [King] with red and gold in his hair despite his age. Powerful, but one man. Yet he seemed to tower over even the half-Giants the longer you looked at him.

He was trying to crush all of Jecrass’ forces. Raelt saw Geril swaying on his saddle and biting his lips hard enough for the old man to draw blood. The [King] turned. He pushed at Flos’ aura. It felt like moving a mountain. But Raelt was a [King]. He took a breath.

“Steady.”

The air around his company stopped shaking. Half of the River Wardens caught themselves, mid-kneel. They surged upright, faces pale. And Raelt met Flos’ gaze.

The [King] had stopped laughing. Now he leaned on his saddle, looking at Raelt. Slowly, his presence stopped pushing at the army across the border. Men and women relaxed. Animals stopped misbehaving.

And the air between Raelt and Flos became electric. Raelt dared not look away. He dared not blink. For a lifetime, the two looked at each other. Then, Flos Reimarch nodded. From one monarch to another. He raised his other hand, and Orthenon and Mars rode forwards.

Carrying a white flag. A sign of parley. The [Steward] himself rode across the border. Raelt exhaled, breathing raggedly.

“Sire?”

Geril looked at his ruler. Raelt stared as Orthenon made the [Soldiers] back up by himself. He stared at Flos, his army.

“That damned [King] hasn’t changed one bit.”

That was all Raelt said. He stared at Flos as General Lael rode forwards to meet Orthenon, forgetting protocol. Damn the King of Destruction.

He was too large for a kingdom like Jecrass.



—-



The two sides exchanged assurances of peace. That was simple. The army was one thing, and Flos’ stunt the other, but the rules of war were simple. A white flag was a binding oath. Even had Flos brought an army a million strong, in theory, if one side flew the white flag, the other had to at least consider the offer of parley.

And since both sides had observed it, there was no danger. Both armies pulled back. But still—Raelt had goose bumps and his River Wardens looked like they might be sick.

Because at the border waited Flos Reimarch. He had called for a parley, and set up a small space. Well, Raelt had called for the same. Provisions, drinks, even places to sit and talk.

A conference. It would not do to send the King of Destruction away rudely, no matter what the other nations would have preferred. That would be an insult.

So that was how Raelt of Jecrass found himself dismounting at the edge of the peace grounds, and walking with his River Wardens clumped up behind him towards a living legend. But here at least, the myth ended. Flos Reimarch spread his arms wide as he saw Raelt, and strode towards him.

“King Raelt of Jecrass. Well met!”

He clasped Raelt’s hand. One second he was standing there, the next, Orthenon and Mars were by his side. The River Wardens were petrified. Raelt stared at Flos.

He had aged. Flos was older than Raelt, and he had slumbered over two decades, so he had to be at least…

He looked like a man past his prime, but no less of a monster for that. Flos had resisted age and his beard and hair had not a hint of grey. He wore no armor, but the royal attire of a [King], altered for riding in hot Chandrarian weather. And his eyes flashed emerald green as he laughed.

“Well met, King Flos of Reim.”

It was a casual greeting, too casual for two rulers who had never officially met. But Flos Reimarch was laughing. He exclaimed, looking Raelt up and down.

“I remember you as a boy! But then I was barely a man then myself. You fought with your father under my banners twice, if I recall! It’s incredible to think but you must be what, forty?”

“Exactly forty, cousin.”

Raelt had to fumble with the address, wondering how informal he should go. At that, Flos burst into laughter. He slapped one leg, totally relaxed.

“Cousin! Ah, but I apologize. Let’s not stand on formalities, shall we? And are these your subjects? Your nobility?”

“I present to you the River Wardens of Jecrass, King Reimarch. And I greet you in the name of the Realm of Jecrass, under the flag of truce.”

The [King] of Jecrass replied somewhat stiffly. Flos sobered for a second. He nodded brusquely at the River Wardens, dismissed them with a glance. He looked straight through them.

“I have brought a small entourage with me. Let us eat and drink and talk, King Leysars.”

He looked back at Raelt, his eyes dancing with more mirth than his tone. Raelt sighed.

He really hadn’t changed.

In short order, King Raelt found himself reclining and speaking to Flos. The River Wardens were doing the same, speaking to members of Parasol Stroll, the leader of Serpent Hunt, even one of the Nomads of the Sky, who sat outside the pavilion, cross-legged. She was so tall she had to peer down at the people just to hold a conversation.

In truth, it was something of an outrage—the [Mage]-leader and a half-Giant weren’t nobility, so technically the River Wardens were being snubbed not speaking to Orthenon or Mars, who were attending their [King]. But the River Wardens were too awestruck to think of that.

Raelt had no one. Geril, his retainer, wasn’t able to join such an august company. If Jecaina had been here, she would have been present. But Raelt thought it was best that neither was at his side. Jecaina might have said something if Flos hadn’t blown her away with his sheer presence. And Geril would have had to suffer sitting next to Mars.

The Illusionist had on a very revealing set of armor. Raelt, who knew Mars the Illusionist, was sure the buxom, beautiful visage of the female warrior was fake. But it was an illusion his personal spells couldn’t see through.

She was on his right, eating a soft cheese with her gauntlets on. On Flos’ left stood the [Steward]. Orthenon was even more distracting. The tall, gaunt man was like…Raelt kept not looking at him, but he made the [King]’s skin crawl with unease.

But Flos Reimarch could pull your eye even with two of his mightiest vassals flanking him. The [King] was in great humor. And he was disarmingly frank and at ease after his dramatic entrance.

“Ah, but I apologize for the stunt. I wouldn’t have bothered, but I’ve been scried and a [King] must live up to his reputation, eh? I thank you for meeting me under such short notice. I sent word ahead of myself, but I forget what a stir a tiny force causes these days!”

He laughed as he plucked some fat grapes out and ate them. Raelt, who had no thirst or hunger at the moment, drank from his cup of iced water. Reim had provided some of the delicacies, but most of it was Jecrass’ bounty.

“What does bring you with an army to Jecrass’ borders, King Reimarch?”

“Exercise.”

The other [King] laughed louder at Raelt’s expression. He was in a great humor. He waved at the army waiting behind him.

“Come now. You surely heard my oath of peace? This army is purely for my protection. And exercise. I have yet to make an army worthy of the days of old out of my forces. Though they have the same will. But come, cousin! Let us catch up the years! I remember your father. I grieved to hear of his passing so soon. What was it?”

“A failure of the heart. Sudden. I remember you sent condolences. You have my gratitude.”

Raelt murmured. Flos waved a hand.

“The years seem so strange to me. I was in a slumber so long, I felt each second passing, and yet the years flowed by in an instant. I am a waking man in a changed world. At least I haven’t gone gray with age! Mars, stop eating that cheese by yourself. Is there good wine?”

“Your Majesty.”

Mars sat up and found a bottle. Flos had also shooed away any servants. Raelt was certain this pavilion was being warded from prying eyes or spells. He eyed the famous [Vanguard] as she offered to pour him a drink.

“I am well contented, Lady Mars.”

“Come, we must drink. I will pour myself. And then you will have no excuse. Do not be so reserved, Raelt! Or your Majesty if we must stand on formalities. But surely we may speak of times long past?”

Reluctantly, Raelt took the cup of wine. It was a good vintage. Flos drank deeply from his goblet.

“I’m afraid I was a boy at the time. I fought in two major battles.”

“Where?”

“Hellia’s Pass, and around Cadistell.”

“Ah, I wasn’t part of either battle. But I remember your father. A great [Rider]! And your mother—”

“She passed within a year of him.”

Flos’ face fell. That was one thing Raelt remembered correctly. He didn’t play games with polite emotions. It made him easy to talk to. Unfortunately.

“Alas. Love is crueler than poison. Then you must have been…barely twenty?”

“That’s right. I was in Terandria when I received word. It was—an unpleasant ascension to the throne.”

Raelt found himself talking with Flos about his first few years. The King of Destruction nodded soberly.

“Ah! Jumped up nobility! That’s one thing I managed to solve after a few wars. I had a rebellion—I never quite reinstated my nobility. I just promoted my vassals. Like Venith Crusland.”

He looked at the River Wardens and shook his head. The nobility hadn’t heard Flos’ words, but they bowed hurriedly. Raelt smiled for their benefit and raised his cup. He heard them toasting him loudly, professing their loyalty.

“My pack of vultures is here to stay, King Flos.”

The King of Destruction laughed as Mars offered him a cut of meat. He ate—Raelt realized he had missed lunch. It was too cordial, sitting with the [King], talking about their woes. As if they were equals or this was a social call! He had to get to the point—

“Trade? Orthenon handles that. Do you have a fellow for it?”

“I’m afraid I have no [Minister], but I speak with the [Prime Minister] of Belchan. Lyfelt. He has given me some advice.”

“Lyfelt. Lyfelt…I don’t believe I know the name. And I don’t forget names or faces easily.”

“The Republic of Belchan is a democracy, your Majesty. Prime Minister Lyfelt has held the position less than a decade.”

Orthenon spoke up for the first time in the conversation. Flos turned to him, smiling and nodding.

“Ah, that would explain it. Republic? I thought it was a Magocracy.”

“They switched after the war ended.”

The [Steward] nodded towards Raelt. Flos raised his brows.

“Really? Well, much luck to their experiments. I’ve actually had this democracy idea talked up to me quite a lot, Raelt. But I think it doesn’t work with classes. A [King] must be strong!”

“Or [Queen].”

Mars interrupted her ruler. Flos nodded towards her.

“Or [Queen]. I admit, after seeing Calliope of Hellios, I’ll concede that a poor ruler is worst of all. Orthenon, any advice for King Raelt regarding trade?”

“I would not think to lecture a sovereign ruler of a nation, your Majesty. Jecrass has done exceedingly well competing in its breeds of horses with Terandrian influence. I could not think to do better myself, save for perhaps tapping into markets Terandria has suffered in. Izril’s trade routes have suffered from the Antinium Wars, and their history with Terandria is exploitable, but I am hardly an expert, and King Raelt’s acumen has enriched his nation.”

Orthenon bowed towards Raelt. The ruler of Jecrass inclined his head, although he couldn’t help but feel pleased by the legendary [Steward]’s comments. Well, he was being polite. Izril? Well, why not? He could look into it—

Then Raelt looked up at Flos’ smiling expression and felt a chill. Raelt glanced over Flos’ shoulder at his army to remind himself. This was not a friend.

“Orthenon is vital to me, Raelt. I am poor at everything but war, you see! But war I do well. And horseflesh is the reason I am here—but permit me my curiosity, please? Do you have a daughter? Orthenon mentioned as much.”

“I do. Jecaina. She is just past her second decade.”

“Oh? Will she be joining us?”

“I fear not. She is rather unruly, and I would hate to see her challenge Mars to a duel.”

Flos nearly fell out of his couch laughing. Mars laughed too, spilling wine all over herself. Orthenon glared at her, but the [Vanguard] didn’t notice.

“You should have brought her! That would be a sight! Ah—then, would I be meeting a Queen Leysars?”

“…No.”

“Ah. Dead?”

Again, the King of Reim grew grave in a moment, as if it was personal to him to hear of a loss of someone he’d never met. Raelt found himself rushing to explain.

“No, Jecaina is adopted. My half-sister…”

“I see, I see. No wonder. Well, I should love to meet your daughter. If time permits. Which I suppose brings me to a question—would you entertain my presence within Jecrass, King Raelt?”

The question threw Raelt completely off-guard. He nearly spilled his drink and had to set the half-empty wine cup down. Half-empty? He grabbed his water. He shouldn’t be drinking!

“Entertain your presence? How do you mean, King Flos?”

“I’d simply like to cross your borders.”

Flos came out with it as he casually chewed on a piece of unleavened bread and soft cheese. Raelt stared at him.

“And your destination would be…?”

“Hm. Medain? I’d like to challenge one of the famous dungeons. Although I fear that might be tricky with the self-styled ‘Adventurer King’. I never did take to him. However, if you have any issues cropping up in Jecrass, I’d be happy to solve them.”

Raelt couldn’t resist a grimace of his own. But he stared at Flos.

“Solve…?”

“Yes! [Bandits]. Monsters. Dungeons would be preferable. Just point me in the right direction. I’d happily crush any large group of [Bandits]. I hear Belchan has a Manticore infestation, so I plan to drop by there as well. Assuming I am welcome within your borders?”

The King of Destruction looked at Raelt. The other [King] leaned back. He put a few pieces together quickly.

“…I’m afraid that would be an unfortunate decision for Jecrass at the moment.”

Flos sighed. He was eating a grape and he spat a seed past the carpet onto the sand.

“I feared you might say as much. But the offer is in good faith, Raelt. I would swear in blood that I meant to offer you no offense or danger. Consider it—my army is small, but you’ve seen some of my elite vassals. Orthenon alone could crush a [Bandit Lord]. Any bandits? A few Gold-rank monsters, perhaps? Some…evil and ancient entity?”

He gave Raelt a hopeful look. Instantly, Raelt had to suppress a litany of woes. Trolls hiding by the river, a group of speedy thieves who stole horses, those damn Manticores that Lyfelt couldn’t get rid of—

It was a handsome offer. The King of Destruction, playing a [Mercenary]? But this was exactly what the other rulers had worried about, no doubt. Raelt had to shake his head. Flos sighed.

“May we cross Jecrass’ borders?”

“Again, that would not be in Jecrass’ interests. I must apologize sincerely, King Reimarch…”

“Oh, don’t. I’m well aware of how Reim stands. The offense is mine for asking.”

The [King] sighed, his red-gold hair waving in a slight breeze. He paused for a moment.

“Well then, it may be a stretch, but would you permit me to buy any worthy horses?”

“Horses?”

Raelt paused, gulping down more wine by accident. Flos nodded.

“Magical breeds. You may have noticed my personal stallion is hardly the best Chandrar has to offer.”

The Ruler of Jecrass had noticed that. Flos had a perfectly good stallion, fine lines from what Raelt had seen, but hardly a quality breed. Let alone…magic. Raelt frowned, though. Even this put him in a difficult spot.

“I’m afraid that would be unwise for Jecrass at the moment, King Reimarch.”

He braced himself for an ugly rejection. Flos Reimarch was beginning to look a bit put out.

“What, not even a Pegasus? I promised I’d buy one if I could. One of my vassals is quite taken with the idea of riding one.”

“I regret that we don’t have any.”

Raelt lied smoothly. Orthenon stared at him. Flos glanced up and shrugged.

“Nightmares? Or Nightstallions, I’m not picky. Galadrin-breeds? I’d pay double for one of the legendary lightning dune stallions. Even a bicorn!”

He was…pushing a bit. With his aura. Raelt pushed back, stubbornly. He thought quickly, and replied as he lifted his goblet.

“We have zorses. And I could arrange a kelpie for you, if you wished it, Flos.”

The King of Destruction’s eyes bulged as he took a drink. Then he nearly choked on his wine laughing. The River Wardens and others gathered in the pavilion looked over as Mars and Flos nearly fell over with hilarity. Even Orthenon had to smile.

Raelt breathed a sigh of relief.

A word on horses. Jecrass, as a famous horse-breeding nation, had rare magical breeds of horses as well as normal ones. Nightmares, the evil, inbred cousins of unicorns were notoriously dangerous. They left flaming hoof prints, and their hair was fire. They were also intelligent and ferocious in combat.

Galadrins were a breed of horses with magic in them, like how cows or even rabbits had evolved over thousands of years to use magic. They were known as dune-riders, horses who ran and collected lightning they could discharge in various ways.

Bicorns were horses with horns, like a bull. And they were generally as sturdy as bulls. Raelt didn’t like horses, but he had to know these things.

The joke that had gotten Flos laughing was that Raelt had offered him a ‘zorse’, or a horse crossbred with a zebra, whose only power was to be confusing. And a kelpie was a magical horse, but one that was aquatic. They would die quickly without a steady supply of water, and Jecrass had three of the damned things.

“Well played! Well played! Ah, I see this won’t be too fruitful, will it?”

Flos caught himself after a little bit. He looked at King Raelt, and the other [King] had to shake his head slightly.

“I regret to say all eyes are on Jecrass, your Majesty. And expedience…”

Flos sighed. But he nodded, and Raelt excused himself on the pretext of relieving himself to stand up. He was relieved Flos hadn’t pushed harder. But friendly or not, Raelt was going to be in trouble if he sold Flos a mount that the King of Destruction rode about while conquering nations.

“Geril, make sure all our rarer breeds of horses are pulled from the border. Especially the magical ones.”

The [King] whispered to his retainer. The man hurried off. Raelt lingered by an out-tent set up for privations since both armies were staring at the pavilion. While he was gone, Flos Reimarch looked at his servants.

“A shame Teres couldn’t be here. Or Trey.”

“Their presence would be noted, your Majesty.”

Orthenon looked pointedly back towards his army. Teres was amid the [Soldiers] somewhere. Flos nodded.

“And Trey is busy. Did Gazi say when they were expected to return?”

“No, sire. But I imagine their journey is nearing its conclusion given the speed of the magic carpet you loaned her.”

Flos nodded. Then he stared at where Raelt had been. The River Wardens were beneath his concern. But Raelt himself had sparked an interest.

“Mars, what do you think of this [King]? I did know him vaguely as a boy, but I have not visited him since. The man is new to me.”

“He walks like a [Fencer], your Majesty.”

Mars looked up from a bowl of nali-sticks. Flos nodded slowly.

“Hm. So he does. I forgot if he was ever good in war or not—Jecrass seldom fought in my personal army. I do recall that he visited Terandria before his father died. A [Prince]’s outings before he takes on more duties, you know. He came to his crown early.”

“Not as early as you, sire. He’s got the walk, but I hear his daughter owns a silver bell.”

Mars grinned, watching Raelt speaking to his people. Flos looked at her.

“Really? And she’s…?”

“Twenty two, I think?”

“At that age? Not bad. Budding talent, it seems.”

Raelt returned. The [King] was more at-ease. As far as he could tell, the negotiations were over. Flos Reimarch could have pushed, but there was a limit to what he could threaten, if the man had been that sort. There were just pleasantries left.

“Let us have a small lunch. I’ve been taken with some foreign foods, Raelt. If you would care to join me?”

There was no help for it, but Raelt did find the unusual foods he was being offered quite good. Flos pointed at one dish.

“A tortellini-thing. I was never a fan of…Izrilian cooking? I think that’s the closest approximation. Or Terandrian. But it’s quite good, for all it wastes water.”

Raelt murmured his agreement. The noodles were stuffed with meat and it was filling, rather than delicate. It was good fare for something an army was bringing on the move. Rough for a [King], but Flos Reimarch had spent most of his life on campaign.

“So, your army will go elsewhere next?”

“Since I have been rebuffed, I have no choice. If I can’t buy a horse or hunt monsters…on to Belchan, I suppose.”

The other [King] didn’t seem put out by the idea. Raelt paused. Some of his River Wardens looked like they’d love to ask Flos a question just for the daring of it, but Orthenon was casually holding down the table with a glare.

“Is it your intention to conquer Chandrar, King Flos Reimarch? Or was your speech just that?”

The question slipped out by accident. The table froze. Mars and Orthenon fixed on Raelt. So did Flos. His brows creased and then—he smiled.

“I meant every word I said.”

“But—er—your Majesty Reimarch, your oath…”

One of the River Wardens spoke up, half-choked. Flos looked at him and the man paled.

“Well, I stand by my oath. But I have no doubt Reim will be attacked. And if it is not, well, I have one enemy I have sworn eternal war against. The Empire of Sands. If I must cross Zeikhal to do it, I will behead the [Emperor of Sands].”

The table fell silent. Flos was smiling, but he had a glitter in his eyes that forbade silly questions. After a moment, the King of Destruction relaxed.

“And of course, I mean to conquer all of Chandrar! Jecrass has nothing to fear from me of course; I consider King Raelt a friend, and I owe him some gratitude. But I intend all of Chandrar to be mine, so there it is! Quite a conundrum considering my oath, wouldn’t you say?”

Relieved laughter ran up and down the table. Nervous too; they couldn’t quite tell if that was a joke. Raelt knew it was not. He looked at Flos, and then toasted the [King].

“It seems you were born in the wrong era, Flos. One far too small for a legend like yours.”

It was supposed to be an offhand remark, a joke and a bit of needling to break the tension again. But across the table—Flos’ vassals fell silent. The [Mage]-leader of Parasol Stroll, Ulyse, Orthenon, Mars—even Flos himself looked sharply at Raelt.

The table went still. Raelt’s smile stopped on his face. What had he said? Flos regarded the younger [King] and shook his head after a moment.

“You think so, eh, Raelt? I used to believe the same. Now? I fear I was born two decades too early! This era…is large enough for my ambitions, believe me.”

He fell silent, and his eyes were thoughtful. But Orthenon and Mars were nodding. King Raelt looked at them and then at Flos.

He did not like that one bit.



—-



The lunch was somewhat quiet after that. Flos soon regained his humor, and he and Raelt were sipping from their second cups of wine afterwards. It was nearly time to leave and Raelt was about ready to ride back home and breathe a sigh of relief. He didn’t think he’d exhale properly until then.

“A true pity. I was hoping to buy a proper warhorse, but I can’t fault Jecrass, especially with the Claiven Erath and Medain at your north. Are you sure I couldn’t convince you? Mars has been itching to fight a proper monster. You don’t have an Elder Creler stashed anywhere, do you?”

“If I did, I’d welcome your army across my border, your Majesty.”

Raelt replied drily. Flos smiled. It was King Raelt who paused, and looked at Flos’ army and then the man himself.

“Jecrass is neither interested in cooperation or enmity, King of Reim. I hope you feel the same?”

“Enmity, no. Cooperation…”

Flos paused. And his eyes looked Raelt up and down again. He seemed to be trying to unravel Raelt’s very soul with a look. Flos Reimarch paused and shook his head.

“I bear you no ill-will, King Raelt. And I mean to keep my oath. So long as my kingdom or subjects are not imperiled, I will not declare war on Jecrass. You have my word as [King].”

Raelt sighed slightly. It was enough. Flos of Reim hadn’t changed that much. Raelt began to nod, preparing a formal goodbye speech for everyone. But Flos stopped him by laying a hand on Raelt’s shoulder.

It was the second contact between the two that day. Raelt stiffened. Flos looked at him.

“We have danced about the subject, but let me simply ask you outright: would you not consider joining Jecrass to my kingdom of Reim, King Raelt? Your father did, in decades past.”

The Ruler of Jecrass turned. Flos Reimarch stared down at him. He was not taller physically, but he felt it. He spoke slowly.

“I would vassalize Jecrass. You recall my first conquest of Chandrar, surely? Jecrass would not be a defeated kingdom, but one which rose with Reim. I have promised the Quarass of Germina rewards for her aid; I would consider Jecrass an ally under my rule.”

“Under, though.”

Raelt had to gather himself to say that. Flos Reimarch paused.

“True enough. I feel I still must ask. I can gain a measure of a person, or so I feel, and I would welcome you to my kingdom with open arms above the other rulers I know.”

The words were surprisingly…gratifying. Raelt paused, but only to figure out how to respond. Then he shook his head.

“I may be a small [King] compared to the legend of the King of Destruction, but I am still a [King], Flos Reimarch. What could you offer me that is worth more than my crown?”

Flos of Reim had to smile.

“Well said. I suppose that is an answer. But…”

He trailed off, looking for a response, and then had to shrug helplessly.

“Mm. In the future? Rewards as great as your deeds, Raelt. I know that is something of an empty promise, even from my lips, though. Today? I could offer you…Hellios.”

Raelt froze. He stared at Flos Reimarch.

“Hellios?”

The King of Destruction nodded, a bit ashamed, as if it was a small bauble he was considering, not one of Jecrass’ old allies/enemies, a nation unto itself.

“Hellios, indeed. Germina rules itself, but Hellios…don’t give me that look. I will conquer all of Chandrar once more. And further still. What is one nation to my ambitions? I mean what I say. I would hand you Hellios tonight if you swore alliance to me.”

His eyes sought Raelt’s. And again, Raelt felt like he could hear thunder. The two [Kings] stared at each other. And then Raelt turned. Flos’ hand left his shoulder and the Ruler of Jecrass bowed slightly. Just a small dip, from one ruler to another. But acknowledging a superior, in a way. And yet—

“I’m afraid you do not know me, King Flos. Not at all, to make me an offer like that.”

Flos’ gaze was steady. He inclined his own head.

“I suppose not. Time makes a mockery of my memories, King Raelt. How have the last decades treated you since last we met?”

Raelt paused, walking back to his delegation. He looked back at Flos and sought for an answer. At last, he replied.

“Almost as well as they’ve treated you.”

Flos laughed.



—-



The two delegations gave a speech of farewell. For the benefit of the unseen listeners, Raelt reiterated his refusals. Flos’ reply was simpler. But he did add a twist as he stood to clasp Raelt’s hand on horseback, [King] to [King].

“One last thing, King Raelt. My refugees, my people returning to Reim.”

“Yes?”

Raelt was on-guard at once. But Flos just smiled. He waved at Jecrass’ army as it prepared to withdraw behind him.

“I am told you give escorts to them as they pass through Jecrass, the opportunity to trade, and so forth. I am grateful. Some of my people have told me of privations or [Bandits] or worse on their journeys here. I owe you a boon for your kindness towards them.”

He actually bowed his head then, deeper than a formality warranted.

“Oh. It was only natural.”

Embarrassed, Raelt tried to wave it off. But Flos just looked at him and nodded again. Then he smacked one arm against his saddle.

“Ah! One last thing! I meant to show you at the beginning, but it slipped my mind! Here!”

He reached into his bag of holding and tossed something at Raelt. The other [King] caught a hard, cuboid object. Flos grinned at Raelt’s puzzled face.

“It is called…a rubik’s cube. It’s a little puzzle. You twist the sides to make them match up, you see?”

“I see. Is it some…[Strategist]’s toy?”

“Perhaps? I think it’s more of a game! One of my vassals came up with it.”

“Your majesty—”

Flos waved off Orthenon and called out to Raelt as he turned around.

“Keep it! And may the rivers run forever in Jecrass, King Raelt!”

And with that, he was gone. Leaving only a memory behind of his presence. And an echo. But that was the thing about echoes. The louder you shouted, the louder the reverberation. And as Raelt rode back towards his capital, he heard the King of Destruction’s name everywhere.

Raelt wished he could hate the man.



—-



That night, Raelt of Jecrass yawned as he poured himself another drink. By all rights, he should have not been drinking, and been in bed, but he couldn’t sleep with an army marching around Jecrass’ borders.

It had been a long day. Most of it Flos’ fault. The other world leaders had insisted on calling Raelt again after the meeting. To pry and ask what he might have said to Flos, any hints. This time Raelt had rebuffed almost all of them, keeping his own counsel. A fat lot of help they’d been.

Jecaina had, predictably, been furious at not meeting Flos, but her fury had been tempered by the impression Raelt had made. Apparently, standing his ground and even being chummy with Flos had given him a touch of the King of Destruction’s myth.

Just a touch, but Raelt saw his River Wardens and servants and [Soldiers] all looking at him with respect, and all of them were using his full title as they bade farewell.

It would wear off in a few days. What Raelt was afraid of was that the King of Destruction had been terribly clever. He’d gotten neither horses nor access to Jecrass, but his presence had already lit a gleam in Jecaina’s eye.

Worse, apparently hundreds of young men and women—mostly men—had tried to cross Jecrass’ borders to enlist in the King of Destruction’s army. He was a marching [Recruiter], Level 50!

“I’ll deal with it tomorrow.”

Raelt muttered as he yawned again. He was deliberately keeping himself from slipping off to sleep by alternating his drinks.

Shot of stamina potion, shot of alcohol. Kept you awake and drunk, just like when he was a young man. Strange—Raelt recalled it used to take more alcohol and less stamina potion for this to work.

But he’d done it. No war with Jecrass. The King of Destruction, met and sent on his way. It was a good outcome. Raelt looked around and his eyes alighted on a new addition to his private quarters.

The rubik’s cube sat on the table, all six sides showing one uniform color. Raelt wondered what he was going to do with it. He rather liked it, but how had Flos gotten his hands on it? Just another new thing, Raelt supposed.

It had been a long, weary day. But it was over. And whatever tomorrow brought—Raelt was certain it would be alright. That was what he told himself as his head laid on the pillow.



—-



“For Izril, Wyverns! For Terandria, Griffins and Hippogyphs! Hydras in the swamps of Baleros! And Chandrar has—Manticores!”

The next day, King Raelt of Jecrass had a headache. And the little image of Flos Reimarch laughing in the scrying orb was not helping.

The King of Destruction was fighting Manticores. Not a city-ending army of a thousand—just a hundred or more.

‘Just’ a hundred. The kind of group you had to hire multiple Gold-rank teams to deal with, or even a few Named Adventurers, or bring your army to fight with casualties. A ruler’s headache.

But there he was. Flos of Reim laughed as the Manticores flew at him. Part lion, part scorpion, part bat, and all bad idea. The damn things could fly, despite being five times as large as actual lions or larger, and heavy with muscle—oh! And they had a stinger with lethal venom!

The army of Reim was fighting them—or rather, the elites. [Mages] were twirling their parasols, blasting Manticores out of the sky while they created barriers on the ground. Raelt winced as he saw one of the half-Giants swat a Manticore out of the air with a huge staff.

It was a rout. The image of the battle saw the Manticores being taken to pieces as the Rustängmarder refused to give one inch. In a last-ditch attempt, a remaining group of six flew at the King of Destruction. They had spirit and they must have sensed it was the [King] the army was based around.

But they never made it. Mars the Illusionist charged one and knocked it onto its back. She stabbed a glowing sword through its stomach and it died. Orthenon cut with his spear, severing another’s wings mid-flight. Then he hurled the spear through a second.

Flos of Reim took on one as his two vassals took on another Manticore apiece. Raelt watched the battle glumly.

“Not even a fight.”

The King of Destruction had a magical shield and sword. Nothing fancy. The Manticore hit the [King]’s shield with all of its weight. He grunted and his feet sunk into the earth. The shield glowed, and a burst of light blasted the Manticore back as the enchantment activated. The [King] lunged in.

“He went straight through its leg!”

Jecaina stared in awe as the [King] brought down the huge monster. He was far too strong. Raelt saw him shove the Manticore backwards before delivering a death-blow to the monster’s head. The King of Destruction raised his sword and his army chanted his name.

“Geril, enough. When was this?”

“An hour before you woke up, your Majesty. Wistram is somehow rebroadcasting it. They claim that this…channel they are operating will have noteworthy events or replays of previous recordings all times of the day.”

“Wonderful.”

Raelt rubbed his head, motioning the scrying orb away. Jecaina was delighted. Raelt was peeved. He ate his breakfast, and then strode towards the secret vault in his palace.

“What are you doing, Lyfelt?”

The marble bust of a face blinked and then smiled, although it wasn’t Lyfelt’s face. The [Prime Minister] and King Raelt communicated via this magical statue system; there was a double in Belchan, the neighboring Republic. Right now, it was probably glaring like thunder.

“Didn’t you advise me not to give the King of Destruction any aid?”

“This is hardly aid, Raelt. And he is ridding us of that Manticore pack that has been troubling Belchan—and Jecrass—for months!”

“And in the doing so, he’s gaining experience, and making a spectacle for himself.”

Raelt paced back and forth in front of the statue. He glared at Lyfelt’s bust.

“You and every other ruler insisted I not even give the man a drink of water, and you let him into Belchan and hire him to hunt Manticores?”

The [Prime Minister]’s face was apologetic, and his voice was soothing. Raelt knew Lyfelt was using a Skill to calm him down, but it didn’t work at the moment.

“Firstly, you did get a poor deal. You were first, so naturally everyone was rather concerned, Raelt. But I saw the King of Destruction coming—you did give me a warning. And secondly, I had plenty of time to consider how to use him best.”

“Use him.”

“He is not being paid to hunt the Manticores. Indeed, he might take their hides and parts, but the meat he will leave behind after feeding his army. He offered to settle the matter for free. I hope he will have time to deal with a group of [Pillagers] as well—either way, he gets his attention, I rid myself of the Manticores, and the world’s eye is focused on Belchan for a moment. Did you hear about their…magic-vision network?”

“I don’t care about that. Lyfelt! What do the other nations think of this?”

“Some aren’t pleased. But they understand my position. I had a number of very lengthy talks. Productive ones! Raelt, Raelt, I am a [Politician]. Events like this only serve to help me, and thus Belchan.”

“It’s a mistake. Lyfelt, if another nation sees this as giving Reimarch aid—”

“They don’t. Because I explained it to them, Raelt.”

Lyfelt’s voice had a tinge of impatience in it. Raelt hesitated.

“You’re sure?”

“Of course I am. Old friend, Flos Reimarch may be clever about his goals—leveling up his army, getting attention—he’s stolen some of my young folk to his army, as he has Jecrass. But he’s playing politics, and he’s a novice in that realm.”

The [Prime Minister] sounded extremely pleased with himself. Raelt just had to shake his head.

“I think you underestimate him, Lyfelt, I do. You’ve given his army a boost.”

“How many? Raelt, his elites fought the Manticores, not his regular [Soldier].”

“They’ll level up from it.”

“They didn’t fight.”

The [King] liked his friend, the [Prime Minister], but sometimes he thought too much like a [Politician].

“Lyfelt, that’s not the point. Flos Reimarch is the King of Destruction. He could level an army just by breathing.”

There was a pause. Lyfelt’s expression of satisfaction changed slightly on the stone bust.

“That may be so, but it’s still to Belchan’s benefit. And there is his oath.”

“Yes.”

Raelt sighed. He massaged his temples, and then looked at Lyfelt.

“Forgive me. I’m just worried for the future. There is the oath, but Reimarch seemed to believe he would have cause for war soon enough.”

“You must tell me what he said. I offered to host him for a dinner, but he declined. He spent longer talking with you.”

The other ruler sounded envious. Raelt shook his head again.

“You’re too trusting. And—Lyfelt, you should really watch your borders better. More of his refugees are coming through Jecrass, and I have had to mobilize my River Wardens to protect them. From [Bandits], monsters, and simply folk that hate them.”

In the best of times, refugees were not well-loved. And the King of Destruction’s people were doubly targets of hatred, abandoning their countries to serve him. Raelt had worked hard to ensure they were protected in Jecrass.

Lyfelt had not. The [Prime Minister]’s voice was scornful.

“Raelt, you work too hard to do good for people who will give you nothing. I’ve allowed refugees through the border. But as far as I’m concerned, that is where my aid to Flos Reimarch ends. Don’t mistake me—I am grateful to them. They’re the subject of ire in Belchan. Much hated—I think I can easily win a reelection this year.”

“Treat them well, Lyfelt.”

Raelt warned the other [Prime Minister]. He disliked this part of Lyfelt, though he’d never said it. The man could play with lives like they were numbers.

Lyfelt paused.

“I’m not ordering anyone to attack them. In fact, the standing proclamation is that they’re free to travel. But if some of my districts take objection? Better a galvanized nation against Flos, than one which admires him.”

The King of Jecrass bit his tongue. He nodded slowly, unwilling to say more. Lyfelt admonished him gently.

“Raelt, you are a kindly [King]. But to succeed with monsters and demons on each side, you have to be willing to play sides. Flos Reimarch is a larger monster than most, but even he has rules.”

“I hope you’re right, Lyfelt. What is Reimarch doing next, do you know?”

A shrug.

“He won’t go north. Claiven Earth and Medain would declare war before letting him cross their borders. I think he’s headed south, next. To try Nerrhavia. He’s certainly marching his army hard.”

“Leveling, Lyfelt. He’s leveling them.”

“As you say.”



—-



The army of Reim, or at least, the army that marched with the King of Destruction was indeed a small one. But it was one Flos Reimarch himself had chosen to follow him for a number of reasons.

Firstly, it was small and consumed less supplies on the march. Fielding a huge army was still taxing on Reim’s supplies, although the spring plus the King of Destruction’s [Edict of Bloom] had begun to fill empty warehouses that had been long-abandoned since Reim’s decay.

Second, the army wasn’t that threatening to other nations. It was an army, but one small enough not to provoke a huge response or make other rulers paranoid. Teres sort of doubted Flos had managed that, but she conceded that they’d gotten to enter Belchan, even if Jecrass had been a bust.

And third—all of the [Soldiers] had been below Level 5 when Flos had formed the army. Today?

“Level 13? You’re sure?”

Teres looked at one of the [Soldiers] she’d gotten to know while on the march. She was a Garuda with pink feathers mixed with orange named Mefaa. She was in awe of Teres, but the two had a friendship of sorts—despite Teres being one of the King of Destruction’s personal servants.

The Garuda was nodding proudly, though. And Teres herself was impressed. Mefaa had been Level 2 when she’d begun the march. In less than two weeks, Flos had somehow made her Level 13—and she’d gained another two levels after the battle with the Manticores.

Despite never having taken part! It boggled Teres’ mind. She herself hadn’t fought either; Flos had forbade it. Manticores were above Teres’ level and despite the flexible leather armor she wore, she was considered at risk of serious injury or death.

Only Flos’ elites had fought, and the King of Destruction was well-pleased with the battle. Teres asked him about it after he came striding into camp, in a great mood.

“Why did Mefaa level? She didn’t even fight the Manticores?”

“Ah, but she was there Teres. She was moving in formation, readying herself if the Manticores broke past the Rustängmarder.”

“Which would never happen.”

Teres glanced at the serious, silent company of the elite army known as the Rustängmarder. They almost never removed their helmets and their armor covered their entire body. She had seen them practicing and she was convinced they could hold back anything.

Anything but the Nomads of the Sky. Some of them had joined Flos on his march and the giant-folk still awed Teres every time she saw them. One of them was ten meters high! Which was thirty feet, which was…

A giant. Teres stared at Zamea, the leader of the Nomad’s Sky, tallest of the half-Giants. Not even fully half-Giant apparently, but the one who has the strongest bloodlines. She was the one who was thirty-feet tall and she’d punched one Manticore in the battle; the rest had fled her.

“True, the Manticores would have never hit the army, but it’s the battle that counts, Teres. You’re not thinking about classes as they are. A [Soldier] is more than a [Fighter]. They are part of an army. Obeying orders, marching—that is what a [Soldier] is.”

“So that’s how they’re leveling? By just doing [Soldier] things?”

It didn’t quite seem fair. Apparently a good army had an average level of 10 among its normal [Soldiers]. Flos had just passed that in two weeks. He laughed as he cleaned blood off his sword.

“Teres, Teres. Regular conscripts are low-level by nature. Any army relies on a unit of veterans, say Level 20 on average, but the majority will be low-level. You supplement that with officers, elite forces. I’m just creating a slightly better army than most.”

“In two weeks?”

He spread his arms, smiling.

“Am I the King of Destruction or not? Teres, I have Skills that advance my subjects faster. I am also quite good at raising and leading armies.”

“True enough. So what now? You slew your Manticores.”

“Yes. I only wish there had been a thousand! Although they might have killed a fair number of our army since we’d have to fight them. Still—we have their hides. That Lyfelt fellow was agreeable. If not to my taste. Raelt was a far more intriguing sort.”

“I’ll take your word for it, since I didn’t meet either of them.”

Teres crossed her arms. Flos laughed again and examined his clean sword. He rose and ruffled Teres’ hair. She glared at him.

“Teres, the world will know you soon enough. But not yet. For now, I value your hidden qualities more than eyes on you. We’ll march south, I think. Trey should be returning with the Quarass and Gazi, and if I cannot cross into Jecrass, I might as well try Nerrhavia. Although Queen Yisame is bound to disagree with my presence!”

Flos Reimarch paused. He stroked his beard. He was happy about being on the march, Teres could tell. But peace did not sit well with Flos Reimarch. Even this battle with the Manticores left him antsy.

She wasn’t sure if he was thinking of breaking his oath, or finding trouble, or if he believed it was coming to him. But the Empire of Sands was distant, and no other nation had yet to provoke him.

“Well, yeah. Maybe I’ll do that. I might as well chat to Nawal. Or Zamea.”

Teres nodded lamely. She wished Trey were here too. There was a limit to how much the twins could entertain the King of Destruction’s interest. Flos could be moody. But the King of Destruction kept turning his head.

“Yes, do that. Trey should be back soon. The Quarass will bring good news, I think. Not of war. But…I do feel as though something is coming, Teres. Something I…dislike. Which is why the core of my armies cannot level quickly enough.”

He frowned off into the distance. Not at any one thing—turning his head as if to stare. Teres wondered what he was talking about. She slowly nodded.

“Do you—so are we marching off now?”

Her words made Flos start. He broke off, looked around, and then laughed again.

“Not this instant! Let us greet my subjects. My ride is bringing me thousands by the day, Teres.”

He gestured towards the edge of their camp. Teres looked around for Mars or Orthenon, but the [Steward] was managing the army, and Mars was…probably getting drunk. Flos Reimarch strode towards a crowd that had gathered on the outskirts of the camp.

Young men and women. Some old, actually. But—Humans from Jecrass and Belchan, who had seen the legend and wanted to be part of it. By the time Flos left both nations, he might have added ten thousand to his number. Or more!

And they would be [Soldiers] and gain levels too. Flos certainly had a working strategy. But still, the King of Destruction had been happier after meeting Raelt of Jecrass. He was looking ahead, perplexed.

They never made it to the volunteers to the army. Orthenon rode down on the two, as fast as always. His horse could run like a bolt of lightning when he chose, and he often chose to do just that. The [Steward], who made Raelt’s speed-walking look slow at times, bowed to Flos and nodded at Teres.

“You may want to see this, your Majesty.”

“What news, Orthenon? More Manticores?”

“No, sire. Another group of people claiming allegiance to you. Bound from Jecrass. They heard news of your Majesty’s arrival and immediately made for the army.”

“I did hear from some of my subjects that Jecrass was hospitable to their passing and Belchan was not. Shepherd Zamea, a word if you please?”

Flos mused, and then bellowed at the distant shape of Zamea. The earth trembled and Teres herself stepped back behind the [Steward] and [King] as Zamea towered over them.

Trey had met Zamea briefly, but he’d been whisked away by the Quarass to fly on a magic carpet. Teres was a bit annoyed about that, especially because they were going to visit the other Shield Kingdoms. Flos had kept her since he got bored without one of the two from Earth to talk to him, but Teres’ dream of owning a Pegasus hadn’t appeared.

Of course, Teres could talk with Zamea, a half-Giant. And she would! Or Nawal, or the Rustängmarder, or any of the other really interesting vassals who’d arrived in Reim. She was going to—Zamea just scared her. A bit.

“A word, Reimarch? How about ‘yes’?”

Zamea laughed. She was truly a towering figure, but she and Flos had laughed at the idea she was close to a true Giant’s height. Teres had no idea how anyone could have fed them, let alone the Nomads of the Sky, but the half-Giants didn’t seem to need to eat as often as other people.

And they were different, oh yes. Bold as could be, but cautious around the ‘small folk’. The ones who were taller even looked different than a Human scaled up. Zamea’ skin looked tough. Craggy, would be Teres’ turn of phrase. You couldn’t even call it ‘rough’.

And yet, the half-Giant woman was good-spirited, kind—like a certain [Groundskeeper] from a certain magical story. Where she differed was that she laughed as she culled her flock. Not her Nomads of the Sky, but the actual flock of creatures, including very large sheep and so on that the Nomads owned.

Zamea was kind to the small folk. But she culled animals for the slaughter with a laugh. And the small folk were below her in more than just stature. The only people Zamea treated like her fellow half-Giants were Flos, Orthenon, Mars, and Gazi. And perhaps the Quarass, but Zamea hadn’t met her.

“A good word, Zamea! But I crave two things! Do you see a group approaching us? More of my people, from the east? Also, I heard tell they came from Jecrass. Was that the preferable route for you?”

Flos shouted up at Zamea as she cupped one ear. The half-Giant paused as she shaded her eyes. She had excellent eyesight.

“Ah, I see them. From the east. Yes, they are there. Several thousand! Six?”

“Six thousand?”

It wasn’t the largest number, but Teres was still impressed. These caravans kept rolling into Reim day by day! But for the [Edict of Bloom] and Reim’s recently filled coffers from the…selling of prisoners of war to [Slavers], they would have never fed them all.

Flos smiled.

“Six thousand is a good number. I will greet them, by all means. Jecrass over Belchan, Zamea?”

She shrugged.

“We walked with the Rustängmarder. No one gave us trouble. The Nomads walk where we will. But the small folk we decided to escort—they feared to go by way of Belchan. Other nations were not kind to them. And that unkindness was sometimes word or arrow.”

Flos’ brow was troubled.

“I see. Perhaps this is something I should speak to their [Prime Minister] about.”

“Let some of my people escort yours! Arrow or word means nothing to our skin.”

Zamea laughed. She slapped her chest and the crack and rush of air made Orthenon’s steed rear. He soothed it as Flos nodded.

“Then, Shepherd, would you care to walk with me? Or stay with the camp? We owe the Nomads a feast of Manticores!”

“Stay. But come back from your little folk to dine with us tonight, King of Destruction! Food tastes better with one like you to enjoy it.”

Zamea smiled and the [King] nodded to her. By this point Orthenon had two more horses for Teres and Flos. They mounted up—Teres was a natural rider by now.

“Let’s investigate, Orthenon. I feel cooped up, even after that battle. We can discuss the battle and magical artifacts later. But I do want to replace my shield.”

Flos urged his horse out of the camp and Teres and Orthenon rode after him. The [Steward] was, as ever, fixated on work.

“Your Majesty, will we be marching onwards to the [Bandits] which [Prime Minister] Lyfelt recommended to us?”

His voice was disapproving—he had disliked Flos’ idea to roam around, offering his services like a [Mercenary]. Flos had loved the idea of a [Mercenary King].

“Not at all, Orthenon. I have no desire to catch them. We’ll head back to Reim. Ready the camp.”

“As you will.”

The [Steward] vanished for a moment, and reappeared a minute later as they left the camp. Which meant it would probably be packed up and ready to go by the time they got back. They had a lot of Manticore meat and Teres was willing to admit she wanted to know how it tasted when they stopped for dinner.

She, Flos Reimarch, and Orthenon rode out of the camp, in the direction Zamea had pointed. It was early summer, and Flos Reimarch sat in his saddle, at peace with the world. But he had gathered an army for war.

Which war? Teres didn’t know. Trey had his own mission, and she wondered how Flos or some other nation was going to dodge his proclamation of peace. Perhaps no one would, and Reim would just have to prepare for war…forever.

But as she looked at the King of Destruction, Teres felt certain something was coming. Because Flos had an instinct for war. And he had been restless. Perhaps that was why they were here.

Either way—Teres looked ahead.

“There. A group, just as Zamea said.”

Flos pointed. Orthenon signaled, and a group of veteran [Riders] fell in behind Flos, smoothly. They were used to their ruler’s flights of fancy. Flos took no notice. He just stared ahead.

“Odd. They’re on foot.”

“Probably poor. It’s hard travelling all this way, right? Maybe they sold the horses?”

Teres had nothing but her opinion, but she gave that willingly and unprompted. Flos laughed.

“No. My eyes aren’t what they used to be. Orthenon—”

“Yes, your Majesty. I think you’re right.”

Teres shaded her eyes, but she couldn’t see anything more than dots. The two men accelerated and Teres had to follow them.

Flos Reimarch rode hard and fast across the road of Belchan, ignoring the people who had come to stare at him. The King of Destruction rode, past a [Princess] who turned in her saddle to stare at his back. Ahead, at something new, even for him.

A change. Flos Reimarch drew closer as the group in the distance spotted him. Teres saw them hurrying forwards. And she heard…a howl?

She stared. What was she looking at? The King of Destruction stared too. Then he threw back his head.

“Do you see it, Orthenon?”

“I see it, your Majesty.”

Orthenon was smiling. Wary, but smiling, as if at some big joke. Teres just stared. But Flos, guffawed. He laughed and laughed.

“Look! My subjects from afar. Teres, do you see them?”

And finally, she did. Loping across the arid ground, howling, pointing. Teres saw her first glimpse of another species, a caravan of at least eight thousand…she stared.

“What are they?”

No, who were they? Flos answered for her as he began to ride towards the people claiming fealty towards him. The kind of people that made his enemies sweat, and eyes turn back to the world stage. For here came a group of Lizardfolk, and loping ahead of them…six thousand strange beings. He smiled as he raised a hand.

“Gnolls.”





7.09 K


About six days ago.

Trey Atwood liked Venith Crusland. If that was a surprising fact, well, it surprised Trey too.

He was a visitor from another world, a young man who had found himself serving and following Flos Reimarch, the King of Destruction around. Trey Atwood was a young man from London. He was not, in his own estimation, someone cut out to walk with legends. Neither was his sister, although Teres’ estimation of her own abilities was a bit higher than his.

But even when Trey was practicing magic, or watching his sister go through sword practice, he never forgot they were from Earth. A world where such things were foreign and strange.

Everyone around Flos Reimarch was strange. Gazi was strange. Orthenon was intense and strange. Mars—well, she looked like a supermodel crossed with a [Knight]—and that was when she was being modest with her illusions. Takhatres, what Trey had seen of him before he’d left, was a mix between prickly and devoted towards Flos.

The point was that no one was normal. Not even the others Trey had met. Nawalishifra, whom he hung out with and had developed an odd friendship with, had killed her brother within the first thirty minutes of him meeting her. She wore a veil, refused to talk to most men, and hammered metal like a machine.

She was also physically stronger than both him and Teres; he’d tried arm-wrestling her. It had been Teres’ idea, but she’d been put out when she lost after Trey, despite her [Lesser Strength] Skill.

Who else? Who else…well, Trey had a few friends among Flos’ vassals. Not all of them were friends, or even that close; they treated Trey with courtesy and even warmth, but Trey didn’t know them.

If he had to name his friends, it would be Teres, his sister, Flos, to some extent, for all they disagreed on issues, Gazi, in her mentor-student way and as a scary friend, Nawal…

Uh, Ulyse and Mirin of Parasol Stroll were also friends to Trey, at least. They helped teach him magic and Mirin loved showing Trey little illusions. Ulyse was like a cool uncle-grandfather type that everyone wanted, rather than what you got.

Finally, there was Fetohep of Khelt and the Quarass of Germina. Trey added them to the ‘friend’ list because he did know them, to some extent. Teres hung out with Orthenon, and neither twin really knew Mars that well, although Teres did more than Trey. But somehow, Trey Atwood had found himself sharing company with an undead ruler and an immortal soul trapped in a child’s body.

Those were his friends. And. They. Were. All. Weird. In the time since he’d met Fetohep, Trey had found the undead monarch seemed to enjoy showing off his kingdom to Trey. He showed Trey a new marvel or artwork each time—often at least a dozen—and seemed to derive enjoyment by watching Trey eat some magical dish, or amazing Trey with views of the city.

“I do not care for your sister. She reminds me of your [King], Trey Atwood. And even a fragment of his personality is more odious to me than leysvurn.”

“What’s that, your Majesty?”

“Ah, a parasite of the stomach. It grows until it overflows from each orifice. It does not kill the host but by its excessive reproduction. There are some preserved in my bestiary. Inform me if you would care to gaze upon them.”

“…Um, no thank you, your Majesty. I might be sick.”

“Ah, the foibles of flesh. Then let us assume my point has been made. Your sister is arrogant. She challenged my authority.”

“She told me about that, your Majesty. You…let her try to strike you?”

“Yes. It was quite amusing. She is not Mars the Illusionist, or Orthenon.”

And then Fetohep would laugh, and the lights in his sockets would flicker. And he would ask Trey if he truly found the comforts of the flesh so unattractive and Trey would ask him to stop choosing volunteers to visit him at night. Although there were a lot of volunteers, which was…surreal.

It was mostly due to Fetohep’s association with Trey; he was at the top of Khelt’s social pyramid, and they loved social status there. Not that Trey had visited Khelt more than…six times?

The undead monarch liked Trey for some reason. Perhaps, because Trey talked to him about Earth. Because Trey liked history from his world. Alexander the Great, and the exploits of Winston Churchill were fascinations to Fetohep as much as Flos, but the ruler of Khelt had soon delved much deeper, until Trey was recounting the stagnation of the Ottoman Empire and the reign of Caesars in the Roman empire, and Fetohep would make pithy observations about his world.

Trey was a historian, and Fetohep had even observed that he might gain the class if he so choose.

“Although I would caution you to remain in your class as [Mage] and pursue magic, rather than devote levels to history. There are [Ancient Magi], who study history and recover magic of old, but it is a unique class. No doubt that boy will have his own plans for you. In that sense, the Quarass is the true mind to consult. I was a [Warrior] in my life; magic is an art I have learned since my death.”

Friends. Was the Quarass a friend? They were certainly being thrown together. And on the day Trey left Reim as Flos Reimarch marched north to go bother other nations with his small army, Trey realized he had another name to add to the friend list.

Venith Crusland. Trey had known the [Lord] first when he had dueled Flos. Venith had rejected Flos coming out of his slumber, blamed him for abandoning his kingdom. But he had ridden to the King of Destruction’s aid with his wife, Lady Maresar.

Trey’s impression of Venith had been that he was a bit of a battleax at first. His wife, Maresar, was another addition for the weird category; she was a former [Bandit Lord], and she was tall, dark, and mysterious. But Venith was different. He was unflappably loyal once he’d returned to his [King], and Flos had left him in charge of managing Hellios, Reim, and Germina in his absence, taking Orthenon and Mars with him.

But was Venith Crusland like Orthenon? A disciplined, almost obsessively formal fellow who could also slice you in half if you looked at him crosswise? Well…no.

He was to his son, Calac Crusland, but that was more of how he was as a father than anything else. To Trey, he was disarmingly…normal.

“Remember, Lady Pathseeker will be with you, but her attitude is not…hospitable. I fear you must keep them apart.”

Venith walked by Trey as the young man hurried through the palace in Reim. He was sighing and rubbing at his chin. Trey was sighing too.

“Me? But why me?”

“Because his Majesty trusts you. And I believe you alone could keep the two from coming to blows. I do not envy you, Trey Atwood. Not at all. It would be like keeping my lady wife and Orthenon apart.”

“Maresar doesn’t like Orthenon?”

“He does not like her. And I suppose she has her issues as well. I fall on my wife’s side of course, but she was a [Bandit Lord]. And Orthenon hates criminals of all kind. They have had issues in the past.”

Venith sighed. Trey winced. The two looked at each other. Trey came out with it as he slowed and Venith matched his pace.

“You know, um, Lord Venith—”

“Venith. You are his Majesty’s trusted bodyguards and companions. We are thus of rank. If anything, I should call you Lord Atwood.”

Venith smiled. Trey shook his head hurriedly.

“It’s just—I didn’t expect to meet someone so…well, like you. Sorry, I mean to say—”

“Normal?”

The [Lord] smiled wanly. Trey nodded. He lowered his voice, as if all his other weird friends were around. To his knowledge, only two were left in the castle. So did Venith, although his wife was keeping an eye on Hellios.

“Normal. I can speak to you.”

“It is refreshing to say that I can do the same to you, Trey. An odd feeling. I wish I could speak to Calac so, but we are family.”

The man grimaced. He wasn’t wearing armor, but loose, light clothes for the summer heat. Trey on the other hand was fairly bundled, and sweating in the heat. But Gazi and the Quarass had both insisted on it.

“Well, I’ve met Calac and he’s uh, intense. But you’re not like that. I mean—”

Trey realized he was insulting Venith’s son. The [Lord] smiled crookedly.

“I can be more relaxed around you, Trey. As I said, we are of the same rank. And the same temperament. Like you, I find myself a normal man in the company of monsters. If more of his Majesty’s vassals return, I will introduce the saner ones to you.”

“You mean—?”

Venith nodded.

“The ones who feel as if we are walking amidst legends. I am a [Warrior], well I was before I became a [Lord]. Now I am a [Lord of Battle]. Hardly a unique class. I would call myself beyond decent, but I could barely hold back his Majesty when he held a poor steel sword. Against Orthenon? Mars? Lady Gazi herself? I would last less than half a dozen blows. Yet, I am one of his Majesty’s trusted vassals, and he has left three nations under my care. Me.”

He nodded at Trey and Trey nodded back. They had the same look of being so far over their heads they were drowning.

“But you can do it, right? His Majesty told me he wouldn’t leave the kingdom in your hands and Maresar’s if he didn’t trust you.”

Venith Crusland covered his face.

“I suppose I may grow feathers if milord Reimarch wills it. But some days I despair of him throwing me off cliffs. And he uses you scarcely less hard. In fact—I think you might wish to trade with me.”

Trey gulped.

“I uh—well, they’re both nice. In their own way.”

Venith actually laughed. He looked at Trey ruefully.

“You might be the only person to say that of Gazi Pathseeker besides his Majesty, Trey Atwood. And the Quarass? I have known two before her, and they suffer fools less than Gazi. You have my condolences.”

He gestured, and Trey reluctantly went on. They walked through the hallways as servants bowed or just went about their day. And after a few minutes, Venith spoke to Trey out of the side of his mouth.

“I would brace yourself. The Quarass’ citizens will not let her go without one last attempt, and it falls to you. Here comes one of them now. Remember, bow—”

The two stopped. Venith gave a short, small bow, as the appointed regent. Trey’s bow was just as short; he felt it should have been deeper, but Venith had given him tips, and among them was to not bow deeply. As they did, both put forefinger and thumb just below their eyes and lowered their hands.

The woman copied them. Highborn Vaitsha Zectiou was a beautiful, beautiful woman. One of the beauties of Germina, in fact. But Trey kept his eyes fixed on her face. She was white as a sheet and her slight greeting made her wobble a bit. Venith looked just as wary.

“Highborn Vaitsha, may the Quarass watch over you. How may we help you?”

“Lord Crusland. Lord Atwood. I hope you may yet persuade her Majesty to refuse the—the King of Destruction’s request. I do not say it is unwise—never! But as the daughter of Ger, I must protect her, even with my frail wisdom.”

Vaitsha came out with it in a whisper. Both Venith and Trey exchanged a look. Trey shuffled his feet.

“Um, Highborn—it’s not my place to question his Majesty. He and the Quarass—they came up with this. And the Quarass thinks it’s a good idea. Isn’t that enough?”

The pale-faced [Highborn]’s eyes flickered. Her face was pale white, but there were darker shades. Her veins were…blackened. Not black, but darker. They stood out, if you looked at her long. Trey tried to keep his eyes on her face. She was a beautiful woman. Loyal to her ruler.

“The Quarass is wise. But I am a poor subject. I fear for her, Lord Atwood. I do not disobey…”

Her eyes flickered again, and a tinge of nerves entered her tone. Disobedience to the Quarass was a death sentence. And neither she nor the Quarass’ escort who’d been here for two days was disobeying.

At least, not to the Quarass. But they were not happy about Flos’ plan at all. Still, as Trey had noticed, not one dared even express dissatisfaction in the Quarass’ presence. Instead, they went to Trey.

Normally, Trey might have done a lot to accommodate the swaying, pleading woman. But…this was about the umpteenth time she’d come, or one of the Quarass’ bodyguards, or a servant—Trey was as polite as he could be.

“I’m sorry, Highborn, but the Quarass has made up her mind and I can’t convince his Majesty. I…wouldn’t dare try to convince the Quarass, in her wisdom and authority. Right, Venith?”

The [Lord] gave Trey a small nod as he murmured agreement. He nudged Trey. Good move. Vaitsha sighed again.

“No, I see you understand her Majesty’s will better than I. I had not considered…if the King of Destruction is gone…then I shall accompany you.”

“If you feel unwell, Highborn—”

Venith began, but Vaitsha was already sweeping down the corridors ahead of them. [Servants] made way, eying her as warily as Venith.

“I could not rest while the Quarass departs. I shall rest afterwards.”

Trey and the Venith exchanged a glance. When she put it like that—they hurried after Vaitsha.



—-



It did not take long for Trey and Venith to enter one of the courtyards, following Vaitsha. They’d both been heading that way anyways. Now, they found a small gathering. And there, Trey saw his friend, and mentor, Gazi Pathseeker.

The half-Gazer as always, wore the scale armor of long, segmented bits of brown armor. The long, silver claymore was strapped to her back. And the Gazer’s orange-brown skin made her seem part of her armor, for all it bulked out her thinner frame.

She was a half-Gazer. And her hair was…hair. Dark. But she had four fingers on each hand, oddly segmented, long. And she had five eyes. Four smaller ones, which all moved independently of each other, even rotating back in their sockets, and one main one. Closed.

This was Gazi Pathseeker, one of the King of Destruction’s Seven. She had no nose—she could smell, but her face was smooth and her mouth lay below her central eye. She had pointy teeth.

The half-Gazer [Scout] already knew Trey, Venith, and Vaitsha were there. One of her eyes had followed their progress and the half-Gazer’s head was already turned towards them. But the other gathering, of Humans, was less perceptive.

A cluster of darker-skinned folk stood about a single, small girl and a bundle of something on the ground. There were [Bodyguards], elite [Servants], a trio of [Mages], and, Trey had been told, at least two hidden [Assassins], the specialty of Germina in the Quarass’ private entourage. Right now, all but the [Assassins] were gathered around their ruler.

The Quarass of Germina. A friend. A tanned girl, who might have been nine, or thirteen if she was late to her growth spurt—a child. She had pale yellow eyes and black hair in a widow’s peak.

Yet she wore royal clothes, freshly-tailored, and cut of rich, dyed fabrics. And that was a sign of her wealth; the gold fabric worked into the garments was apparently less expensive than some of the dyes. The Quarass wore four rings on her two hands, and she had a small locket or something around her throat.

Still, she was a child in appearance, albeit a rich one. Until you looked into her eyes. Then—then you saw someone older than Fetohep looking back. Even now, Trey found it unnerving. And yet, at the same time, compelling.

Like Flos, the Quarass had a presence that inspired people to listen to her. To kneel, or bow. She was young, but she was also old. The Quarass of Germina never died. Her body, died, and the…perspective of her living incarnation. But the Quarass’ memories were passed on to the next one. In that way, she had lived longer than almost anyone in the world.

She was the Quarass of Germina, a Dragonslayer, ruler of one of Chandrar’s four Shield Kingdoms. And Trey’s friend. At least—she seemed to tolerate him. And she had agreed to his presence on this trip.

“Great Quarass, Lord Atwood has arrived.”

Vaitsha announced to the crowd and all heads turned to Trey. He saw the young girl look up. And both he and Venith experienced that pause as the Quarass looked at them.

“Yes, Vaitsha. And you have not persuaded them still.”

The Highborn lady went even paler. She opened her mouth, but the Quarass spoke over her. She looked around and her entourage bowed their heads low. Some knelt.

“I have explained myself once. Secrecy is of the utmost importance. Moreover, the carpet moves faster with fewer passengers. No guardian could match Gazi Pathseeker. No one in Ger has the experience to ride a carpet with the proficiency I do. Finally. I will it. Is that not so? Answer me, Vaitsha.”

“It is so, Quarass. This daughter of Ger begs your forgiveness.”

“If the daughter of Ger did not question her Quarass, there would be nothing to forgive.”

The Quarass snapped. Vaitsha shook. Trey interrupted hurriedly.

“I apologize for my delay, Quarass.”

The young Quarass looked at him. Trey felt like she’d shoved an invisible spear through his chest. But she nodded.

“There is no offense from you, Trey Atwood. And this journey is planned. We shall leave now. My double—”

The Quarass gestured. Trey saw a little girl with huge eyes—yellow, and a height and build similar to the Quarass—step forwards. She was shaking—with more awe than anything else. The Quarass was beloved by her people.

“Show my face at least once a day in Ger or Reim. As I have said, but apparently must repeat, Lord Venith Crusland shall manage any disturbances should they appear, as will Vaitsha in my absence.”

The Quarass’ tone made it clear the disturbances would not occur. Her entourage bowed. Vaitsha bowed lowest of all, nearly prostrating herself on the worn stone flagstones of the courtyard. She had tears in her eyes from the sharp words the little Quarass had spoken.

“Your will, Quarass.”

“Yes. Then, we are in readiness. Trey Atwood, come. Pathseeker, are you ready?”

Gazi turned her head. She’d ignored the Quarass and the subjects of Ger, choosing instead to let her eyes roam around. Now, she turned her head as all but one eye still roamed. But one eye was enough—it flitted between Trey and the Quarass.

Then Gazi smiled her scary smile. With lots of teeth. Frankly, most of her smiles were scary, but Trey had learned enough to know when Gazi wanted to unnerve others.

“Yes, Quarass of Germina. Let us go.”

The other Germinans shifted uneasily. They did not like Gazi. They did not like Flos. He had beheaded the last Quarass. But at the order of the new one, they’d sit in bed with a cactus.

“Then let us go.”

That was all the Quarass said. She had no luggage, at least, not any visible stuff. Neither did Trey or Gazi, but for what they were wearing. Gazi wore her armor, the Quarass had light clothing and magic jewelry.

Trey had hot layers covering even most of his head. He lined up behind Gazi and the Quarass as they turned to the bundle sitting next to the Quarass.

It was a carpet. A rolled-up carpet. Trey recognized it as similar to one of those allegedly authentic Persian carpets people liked to show each other in his world. Only…this one was authentic. Someone had woven it, with some kind of fantastically complex pattern. By hand.

It was rolled up, but as the Quarass pointed at it, she spoke one word.

“Seter.”

And the carpet unrolled in one movement and hung, floating, a foot off the ground. Trey made a sound. It was a cross between a gasp and a squeak.

No one else seemed that impressed. Gazi smiled slightly, and Trey blushed. Venith just gave Trey a nod. Another bloke in a world full of monsters.

“Vaip.”

The carpet lowered itself. The Quarass walked onto it, and then sat, cross-legged, near the tassels on the ‘front’. Gazi followed her.

It was a large carpet. Another sign that it probably cost a lot of money. Or gold. Aside from the magic itself, that was. Apparently, this carpet had come from Germina’s treasury itself. It was one of the many objects Flos’ armies had looted when they’d taken Ger, the capital. And now the King of Destruction had given it back to the Quarass in exchange for her aid.

Well, that wasn’t the only thing he’d given. Gazi settled down at the back of the carpet on the Quarass’ left. Trey hesitantly walked over and sat in the middle, on the right.

“We go. I shall be gone a week and a half at most. Watch Ger for me.”

The Quarass’ subjects knelt. The Quarass looked back at them just once.

“My faith lies in you all. And you, Vaitsha.”

That was all she said. Then she pulled slightly on one of the tassels and the carpet rose. Trey yelped, but only because he’d expected to feel the sensation of going up and he hadn’t. Unlike an elevator, the carpet felt like Trey was sitting on the ground. He only saw the world descending around him.

Vaitsha looked up as the Quarass bade farewell. Her eyes widened at the little ruler’s last words and she touched her finger and thumb to her eyes. To cover tears, Trey thought.

It was surreal to meet someone who loved their ruler that deeply. Like meeting someone who talked about the Queen all the time and did stuff like—like sing ‘God Save the Queen’ with tears in their eyes. Fair play if you liked the royals, but even if you did—they were just there.

But this was a world where monarchs ruled. As the carpet rose, Trey looked at the Quarass’ back. He stared over the edge of the carpet as Venith lifted one hand in farewell. Gazi sat with her back straight as the Quarass angled the carpet up slightly.

Trey was braced to feel as though he was sliding, but again—it was like an aeroplane without even that slight pressure from acceleration. The carpet flew out of Reim’s palace, out of the city.

Higher and higher. Until Trey was high overhead the arid land of Chandrar. Until—well, he was familiar with flying. But this?

This was surreal. Trey could look over the side of the carpet and look down, down all the way to the ground. It was not like being in an airplane. It was in fact, terrifying. The carpet was large—a rectangle of oh, thirteen by eighteen feet. You could walk around on it if you wanted, safely.

Trey did not want. In fact, he might have screamed. Just a bit.

“Aaaah! Oh my god—”

And that was how he began his journey with the Quarass of Germina and Gazi Pathseeker. Neither stopped Trey from screaming. In fact, he saw Gazi smirk. The Quarass was manipulating the carpet by tugging on the front of it in some secret manner—but Trey was sure she was smiling too.

For some reason, their amusement helped. Trey stopped screaming and stared down at the moving landscape beneath him. Good thing he had a head for heights these days. And there was something incredible about seeing this. No plane could be this real. The wind was blowing in Trey’s face as the carpet rose.

First it was hot, and sand had blown against Trey’s clothing as they rose. But then—the air grew clearer, and the rushing wind made Trey very grateful for the heavy clothing. He marveled as the carpet rose yet higher.

This was Reim. And to the north, Trey knew, Flos Reimarch was marching north with Teres, the Nomads of the Sky, and countless more [Soldiers] and Mars and Orthenon. He wanted to train his armies, and he had told Trey his instincts called him north, whatever that meant. But there was another motive behind him going north. And that was the carpet ride Trey and Gazi and the Quarass were on. They had arranged it. Trey was just there to keep the peace, but—

“Whoops.”

A gauntleted hand pushed Trey. He screamed and clung to the carpet. Gazi laughed softly as Trey crawled into the center of the carpet.

“Don’t do that! Gazi, you monster!”

The half-Gazer laughed as Trey shrieked at her.

“You’ve never called me a monster yet. Have I earned it?”

“Yes! Don’t do that again! Please!”

The wind didn’t snatch away Trey’s words as much as could be expected. The carpet really did feel like a confined space, although Trey couldn’t see the magical field yet. He lay, belly facing the carpet, spread-eagled and panting wildly. After a few seconds, Trey raised his head.

“Um, Quarass?”

“Be silent. I am still adjusting to this carpet. I have not flown in forty two years.”

The Quarass’ calm voice made Trey shut up at once. He stared at Gazi. She was turning her head left and right. Trey nearly sat up—but he was still having a near heart-attack.

“Gazi, do you see Flos? Teres?”

“Mm. I see something to the north. But my smaller eyes do not see far enough.”

Gazi pointed and Trey stared into the distance. He saw nothing, save for the rising ground that led towards Hellios, and in the distance, hills and more mountainous terrain. Trey looked back and marveled.

Reim was a small kingdom, and its city, which resembled a crown, was hardly a metropolis. It had been, in ages past, but the surrounding city had fallen into disrepair and dust. Reim had smaller settlements, but the land was barren.

Or had been. But Flos Reimarch had issued his [Edict of Bloom] and the rains had come. Trey had seen the dry ground blossom. From above, he gasped.

“It’s amazing.”

Green ran throughout the kingdom, mixing with the earth. It was already drying in places; the rains had stopped, but Trey could see paved roads, tiny people, marching down them. Small houses, so unlike the steel and glass of his world.

But what a wonder, to look on it from above. A world so unlike his own. A sight unlike his own! Trey sat up.

Gazi pushed him again. This time he grabbed her hard armor.

“Stop! I’m begging you!”

“If you cannot move about without screaming, Trey Atwood, it will be a noisy ride. You should get used to this much. What if you fight at heights like these?”

“If I do, I’ll manage! Just don’t push me!”

“It is your training!”

“No!”

Trey shouted at Gazi. But he knew that meant she’d be pushing him like that all trip. She was—evil.

Not evil, evil. Not like Gazi the Omniscient, ruthless counter-assassin and butcher that the legends made her out to be. But she trained Trey ruthlessly. To teach him spells like [Featherfall], she’d thrown him out a window multiple times, and then started doing it when he wasn’t paying attention!

To be fair, she caught him if he failed, but try telling Trey’s bladder that. Yes, he’d wet himself a bit. Twice! He’d told a laughing Teres to try falling face-first towards the ground from a four-story drop and walk away with clean pants.

Also in fairness, Gazi’s methods worked. Trey could cast magic, he’d put on a lot of muscle, and he was capable of casting spells even after being kicked in the nuts. And yes—they’d practiced that too. Gazi’s teachings were harsh, but Trey didn’t begrudge her it—usually. He knew she wanted him to live, and he’d seen the dangers this world had to offer.

Like Wyverns. Thinking of that, Trey glanced around, but the skies were clear. The clouds were high, high overhead. The sky felt more vast than in Earth—Trey and Teres had estimated that this world had a larger sky, although how gravity worked if that was true was beyond him. Still, there were no Wyverns…

“Bird flock.”

Gazi pointed. The Quarass turned her head as Trey’s head snapped around. Instantly, the ruler of Germina took the carpet down in a short dive. Trey felt that. Just a bit. But his stomach dropped a tiny bit with the sudden deceleration and they missed a flock of—

Trey saw them flash by. They were like small bluebirds. Except they were brown. And that was the extent of Trey’s bird knowledge. They scattered, peeping, as the Quarass flew past them.

“The warning is appreciated.”

The Quarass’ voice was cool, unperturbed. Trey was imagining what would happen if one of the small birds—even a tiny one!—hit him at the speed they were travelling. He was no expert, but this felt like a very, very fast car. Not an airplane, but still, amazingly fast.

Magic. Gazi seemed to be considering the same thing, although she had her unbreakable armor.

“Does this carpet have anti-collision magic?”

“Doubtful for a flock. Bugs, perhaps. Although sand may wear it down. Alert me of any other birds.”

“Very well.”

The two didn’t turn their heads to look at each other, and their voices were cool. Polite. Trey…wondered if they didn’t like each other, like Venith had warned. He shifted uncomfortably. Then Trey remembered something at last and fumbled his iPhone out of his pocket. Gazi and the Quarass watched as he tried to take a video.

“This is us in the air! If you’re seeing this later, me, your Majesty, Teres, it’s not that windy! It is a bit cold, but we’re not flying too fast! There’s Gazi—”

He turned the phone. Gazi inclined her head.

“Your Majesty.”

“And here’s the Quarass!”

She stared at the camera, unblinking for a second. Trey hesitated. He swept the view across the ground, pointing out Flos’ palace in the background, already distant, and trying to find the flock they’d nearly run into. Trey closed after a minute or two of blathering to himself; the other two passengers were just staring at him.

“That’s all from me! I’ll take another video if we see something interesting!”

He turned off the video and saved the file. Only then did Gazi relax and the Quarass turn fully back to the front. Trey forgot how seriously people in this world took videos.

Silence. After a while, Trey spoke up. He was fairly certain the other two wouldn’t, and making small chat with unbelievable folk was a talent of his. He cleared his throat.

“So—um, Quarass.”

“Yes, Trey Atwood? We are apart from my subjects. Speak your mind.”

The Quarass turned her head, regarding Trey intently. They were friends. Of sorts. She had accompanied him to Khelt, where he’d gotten to know her, and they’d talked since then.

“I wouldn’t want to bother you. If you still need to learn the carpet.”

“I have mastered it to my satisfaction. What do you wish?”

The Quarass was still unnerving to Trey, but she seemed to not mind explaining things to him. That was why Flos had insisted Trey go with her. For perspective as much as anything else. And…Trey rolled his shoulders.

“Um—I was just wondering if Vaitsha was alright?”

She had been very pale. The Quarass shrugged as she turned to look at Trey, keeping the carpet moving ahead.

“The poison is running through her. I have told you of this.”

“Right. Right. But, er, is she doing okay?”

“She must take a numbing medicine—another poison—to stay sane. She is weak, faint. In another few days she will not be able to stand. By the time I return, she will be bedridden, and must be hand-fed. At the end, perhaps when I return, or just after, she will not be conscious. Then, she will be force-fed and she will live or die. Perhaps, all before I return. Does that answer your question?”

The Quarass’ gaze bored a hole through Trey’s skull and implanted a silent message that he was being an idiot in his brain. Still, he went on.

“Can’t—can’t she reduce the dosage?”

“No.”

“But if she might die—”

The Quarass clicked her tongue.

“It was her choice. As is Khalid’s. For power and her new class, Vaitsha is risking her life. Would you deny her that right?”

Trey bit his tongue.

“No. No…well, maybe I would. Does she have to risk her life? Isn’t there another class?”

He looked at the Quarass. She had the memories of countless lifetimes in her head. And she knew more about classes and levels and the secrets of this world than anyone, even Fetohep. The Quarass smiled.

“Of course. But this is a class that suits Vaitsha. It is more powerful than many I could easily transform her into. And the swiftest. Germina needs champions. Vaitsha has taken the risk. Her chances of death are low.”

“How—”

“One in sixty.”

Trey fell silent. That…wasn’t as bad as one in ten. Or one in twenty, like he’d been thinking. Still…

“So, how’s Khalid doing?”

The little [Street Tough] was a boy from Ger who had pledged to be the Quarass’ protector, like Vaitsha. And Flos. But Trey hadn’t seen him when the Quarass had come to Reim the last two visits. The little Quarass shrugged.

“He is training his body. Learning the art of war. It will be years before he is able to serve as my protector and champion. But I have laid the groundwork. Each day, he imbibes tinctures and medicines, and soaks in baths designed to improve his body.”

“Really? Really? All that helps a lot? Tinctures?”

“Yes. Pills, made of ingredients and in processes I know. They will improve the quality of his muscles. By the time he grows in height, he will have twice a normal man’s strength without a Skill, among other qualities.”

Trey blinked. Gazi turned her head back to stare at the Quarass for a second.

“Bird.”

The Quarass turned them left. Trey kept talking. It wasn’t hard. Everything about this world was beyond fascinating.

“Wait, you can do that? Eat something and get powerful? Does it wear off?”

“No. You are thinking of potions, substances with short-term effects. What Khalid eats will change his very nature. Slowly.”

The Quarass calmly stared at a large albatross-like bird with dark feathers flying past. It made a strange, warbling sound—Trey saw it had teeth. It tried to turn—the carpet outraced it.

“So—so—by the way, this is an amazing carpet!”

“Your praise is unneeded. The carpet is average. Ask your questions.”

Trey wilted.

“Okay. So about these substances? How is it possible? Gazi, did you know—?”

He looked at Gazi. She shook her head. For the first time, the Quarass looked at Gazi directly.

“These are secrets I know. Gazi Pathseeker, travelled though she is, does not know much of this world.”

Gazi grinned with all her teeth. Trey winced. Venith had warned him! The half-Gazer looked at the Quarass and inclined her head ever-so-slightly.

“Apparently so. If it is not a secret, may I ask how this is possible? I know of enchantments that may last indefinitely. But you say it changes the nature of this boy. How?”

“Any aspect of the body and even qualities like the mind or natural flow of mana can be improved to some extent. The people of Drath know this; they are experts at this refinement and produce pills, liquids, and other methods of cultivating their form. I studied their methods in several lifetimes.”

“Really? So you can make them stronger?”

The Quarass smiled a bit, pleased by Trey’s wide-eyed fascination. And Trey wasn’t disassembling! …Too much. You had to entertain people like Flos and Fetohep. The key was to genuinely be interested. And this was amazing.

“Of course it is possible. This is what is happening to Vaitsha now. She drinks poison and antidote until her blood itself is venom. Soon, she will become [Viperborn]—or a [Serpent Lady], or a number of classes depending on some factors outside my control.”

Trey shuddered.

“And Khalid?”

“Strength of body, fitness of form. It is a simple thing with him; slower. I rely on Vaitsha’s class; not so with Khalid. His strength will come from body and class. It is said on Drath, that their perfect warriors had blood which circulates the body ten times for every one of ours, that they are lighter, swifter, stronger, with eyes like birds and flawless skin and the ability to consume poison like water. But the ones I poisoned certainly did not have that latter quality.”

The young man’s face fell slack as the Quarass smiled. Gazi grinned too. The Quarass raised a finger as Trey opened his mouth.

“You are about to ask me why I do not offer this to other subjects, or why I did not do this to myself. Or why the world over does not practice this.”

“Yes.”

The Quarass let go of the carpet. Trey experienced a moment of panic, but the flying magical carpet just flew straight ahead. The Quarass pulled out a tiny bottle in a sealed clay flask. It was nondescript, and she yanked on the cork. Twice. She dug her fingernails under the cap, glared at it, and then handed it to Trey.

Without a word, he pulled at the cork. It took him a few seconds, but he opened it and carefully handed it back. The Quarass instantly took a swig and made a face. She went on as if nothing had happened.

“Three reasons. Firstly, because it often creates a class of its own. Secondly, the process takes years, often difficult or painful as one internalizes foreign substances and the body adapts. It is also best done in conjunction with training and adolescence; it would be immeasurably harder for you, for instance.”

She prodded Trey lightly in the chest with one finger. He winced. The Quarass finished drinking her tincture and sighed, grimacing.

“And finally, to develop even my body with the fullness of such techniques would cost more than Germina’s coffers could withstand. The cost is astronomical for the most impressive of such recipes; this is relatively cheap and effective for its cost. I will be able to cast magic well in a few years’ time with this.”

She tossed the clay bottle over the side of the carpet. Trey instantly watched it disappear. He carefully looked over the edge, but they were flying across the edge of Zeikhal by now, along Khelt’s borders. Sand began to overtake even arid land.

Endless sand. Zeikhal had apparently engulfed countless kingdoms. It had been settled by great empires and they had turned to dust. It was the Great Desert of Chandrar, larger than continents from Trey’s world. They were flying along the border, southwest.

“So that’s…”

“Concentrated mana potion. I must drink it daily, and monitor myself closely. Too much and I will poison myself. But if I manage it—and my changing flow of magic—I will become more attuned to magic itself. Are you taking notes, Pathseeker?”

Trey jumped. Gazi, who hadn’t moved from her cross-legged position, just smiled.

“His Majesty has no need of enhancing his magic, nor I mine. Will this work with Amerys? Trey?”

“As I said. If the King of Destruction wishes to pay a fortune for comparatively small reward, he may request my knowledge. I have agreed to help you, and Trey Atwood. But I do not believe he will benefit from this process.”

The Quarass flicked her fingers. Gazi shrugged and relaxed. Trey looked at the Quarass.

“Why did you agree to help us, your Majesty?”

The Quarass turned and looked at him. Trey really wished she’d stare ahead, but Gazi was keeping at least three eyes out, which was reassuring.

“Besides the fact that I have tied Germina to Reim, Trey Atwood? Besides the fact that I have bargained with the King of Destruction for the return of some of my treasures in exchange for my aid? This is my carpet. And these are my rings.”

She touched two of the rings on each finger. Trey winced. Flos had gone through some of the artifacts looted from Hellios and Germina and spread the wealth. Some had gone back to the Quarass indeed, but Mars had walked off with two swords. Teres had a magic ring, and Trey had…

“The staff of Deliqen. You have it with you?”

Trey jumped. The very staff of the [Geomancer] the previous Quarass had sent to kill Flos with was in Trey’s bag of holding. Guiltily, he nodded.

“It’s uh—”

“It was lost in battle. You will become worthy of it. It is a powerful artifact, which I shall instruct you in the usage in. Among other tasks. It will be at least three days of non-stop flight to reach our destination, even as fast as this carpet can go. A day of conference. Three days to return.”

“Right. Right, and um. My role is to take videos. And Gazi—”

“To provide mana for this carpet. Among other tasks.”

Gazi smiled, looking with two eyes at the Quarass. The girl nodded.

“Among other tasks. And she is a useful guardian. One who can see scrying spells, among other things.”

“Oh. Oh. So that’s why his Majesty was so certain…”

“My departure will be noted, perhaps even my arrival. The key is not whether we are spotted, in the end, but whether we are ambushed. There is little chance of that, I believe.”

“And if we are? Are you prepared to fight, Quarass? I cannot guard Trey, myself, and you with perfection with my wounded eye.”

Gazi indicated her closed eyelid. Someone had poked her eye out. Or in. A girl named Erin Solstice. Trey had seen her, thrice now. The Quarass inclined her head.

“If it should pass—I am adept at using a magical carpet. I will evade pursuers by air. If we fall to the ground, your life is in the most danger, Pathseeker.”

“True.”

One of Gazi’s eyes swiveled to Trey. He hesitated.

“Did his Majesty say…?”

“To protect you, Trey. Although if we are surrounded, you two should surrender. I will not be a prisoner.”

The half-Gazer calmly nodded at the Quarass. The ruler of Germina tapped her fingers together. A bug bounced off her face. She blinked; Trey was certain it would have splattered or hurt at the speed they were going, but one of her rings flashed. She brushed at a leg caught in her hair.

“True. And if it comes to it, I may well die.”

She and Gazi stared at each other. Trey looked at the Quarass.

“Die?”

She shrugged.

“If I die, I die. The King of Destruction will owe me a debt. And if I die, it is no great loss. I have already selected my successor, and Germina will not suffer the loss of a high-level Quarass.”

“But that’s awful! You can’t think of death like—that’s not right!”

Trey was genuinely horrified. He was used to people talking about death, but even this was cavalier. The Quarass slowly turned her gaze towards Trey. Her eyes narrowed.

“You look at me as I appear. A child. Do not let my appearance deceive you, Trey Atwood. Yes, I am a child in parts, but I am also ancient. Death is not something worse for me than anyone else. In fact, it is a lighter thing for me than you, since I shall live again—”

“Insect swarm. Locusts.”

The Quarass spun. The carpet went nearly totally perpendicular in a moment. Trey saw a huge cloud of bugs, a long, swarming group of them headed south. He hung on as the Quarass took them away. Then she turned back and stared at Trey. Hard.

“By all means, sympathize with the circumstances to which I am thrust into. Grieve for the girl who became the Quarass if you must. But do not pity me. The next time you treat me like what I am not, I will disabuse you of the notion.”

Trey couldn’t say anything to that. He knew the Quarass was old. He knew she had died—he’d seen her headless corpse and that was something that had given him nightmares. But to look at her…

The child ruler clearly knew what Trey was thinking. She glowered her eyes flashing, and got angry for the second time Trey could remember seeing her. The first had been trying to mount a really tall camel without help.

“Sand-blinded boy! I have slept with more women than you have in your life, you arrogant virgin! I have eaten the hearts of my dead foes, and watched nations fall! I am not one to be coddled or made light of! I am the Quarass of Germina!”

She pointed a finger at Trey’s face. He turned crimson.

“I’m not a—”

Gazi looked at him. The Quarass looked at him. Trey turned pale.

“I’m not! Neither is Teres! No, wait. She is. She is, I’m not!”

“She’s not. You are.”

“What?”

“We can read your aura.”

Trey went pale.

“But Teres said—that’s a lie about the aura. Right? I mean, you can’t tell…”

The Quarass rolled her eyes, as Trey tried to explain or justify. She turned back to the carpet and made a slashing motion with one hand—Trey’s mouth shut instantly.

The carpet was quiet for a while. Trey fell silent, more from the heat in his face than anything else. At last, the Quarass spoke, and it was softly, facing ahead. She gripped the edge of the carpet as she stared across the open sky.

“Many lifetimes ago, I was a [Carpet Racer]—a [Skyrider of Ger]. I may not have the Skills or levels of my incarnations, but carpets need neither muscle nor supreme reflexes, Even in this body I can control it well. Your [King] believes carpets are dangerous. Well and so, he is right. But I remember living in times when many soared through the skies as we do now. How else to travel across Chandrar?”

“There is a magical carriage in Izril owned by a [Lady]. It moves as fast as this, or faster.”

Gazi offered noncommittally. The Quarass scoffed.

“Pah, can it ride across the sands of Chandrar? Even if it can—what is a carriage to flight? This is magic.”

“And death. Even with safety spells, I am told most carpet riders die within a month.”

The Quarass looked back at Gazi and Trey. She paused, blank-faced.

“I lived for thirty eight years. I did die on a carpet. But I flew it into a Dragon’s maw. And the lack of courage to fly is why this world wanes.”

“W-well, we’re flying, aren’t we?”

Trey tried to edge between the two. Gazi nodded, smiling with that edge of hers. She looked at the Quarass challengingly.

“So we are.”

The little girl laughed.

“You call this flying? This is not flying! This is flying.”

With that, she flipped the carpet upside down. It happened in an instant. Trey saw the ground below him. He stared at it as his entire stomach dropped straight towards his throat. Then he felt his bottom leave the carpet—

The Quarass flipped the carpet again. Gravity pulled Trey down—into the carpet. He stared ahead, white-faced. And then he started screaming.

“Aaah! Aaaaaaaaah!”

Gazi was holding onto the carpet, staring at the Quarass. The little ruler was smiling. She turned to Trey.

“Stop panicking. Even poor carpets have some level of anchoring for the rider. This is a poor gravity spell woven into the threads. Besides which—both you and Pathseeker are capable of casting [Featherfall]. What are you worried about?”

“Don’t do it again!”

Trey shouted at the Quarass. She smirked. And in that moment, Trey realized she shared one tendency with Gazi—no one could make her stop when she wanted to do something. The Quarass grabbed the carpet.

“Do not—”

Gazi’s voice was swept away as the carpet dove. This time the g-forces kicked in hard, pulling Trey upwards. Not off the carpet—just an inch or two. He clung to the carpet, screaming as the carpet dove towards the ground.

The Quarass took them down and then across the ground, inches from the sand. Then she tilted the carpet nearly seventy-degrees to the left! Trey felt himself sliding towards the ground—he scrabbled for purchase as Gazi, pale-faced, hung onto the right edge.

“Stop! Stop, stop, stop, stopstopstopstop—”

Then the Quarass started doing barrel rolls. Actually, the correct term was aileron roll, as the maneuver of rotating entirely around in a 360-degree axis was confused with a barrel roll—

“We’re gonna die! We’re gonna die!”

They were a foot off the ground! They followed a dune up, went screaming down a valley, and Trey saw the Quarass pull up as the ground rose—

Inside loop. And then an outside loop, a trick performed by fliers in Trey’s world. The Quarass flew with her two screaming passengers behind her, taking them through incredible aerodynamic feats. The carpet danced in the air, and the Quarass only stopped after about fifteen minutes of flying.

Trey was panting when they flew level again. He’d stopped screaming after minute five. After that, it had been the most incredible roller coaster he’d ever had. He was terrified, breathless, but he clung to the carpet and looked at the Quarass with awe.

Gazi lay on the carpet, spread-eagled like Trey had been, with a death’s grip. And she had kept screaming even after five minutes. Now, she stopped and Trey heard another sound.

Laughter. The Quarass was sitting up, with a huge smile on her face. She let the wind blow through her hair and she laughed, as she let the carpet fly ahead. And Trey saw a new emotion on her young face. Like her wrath, he saw her smile.

Her laughter. And Trey realized, as the Quarass flew ahead, that for the first time since she had become the Quarass, she was apart from her subjects.

She was free.



—-



Even monarchs were people. Yes, even them. They were not normal people, if anyone was normal. They were different. They were rich, powerful, famous at the very least by virtue of their royalty.

And yet, even those who were immortal, ancient of days, were people. People with egos like the sun, who believed the world revolved around them. Who trampled over others to get what they wanted.

Sometimes it made your hands itch for an axe. But in this world, what they faced was the reason why they were needed. Monsters, calamity—a nation needed a leader who could not only lead, but stare down Dragons. That was why they existed.

That night, Trey found not a campfire and bed, or a tent as he had envisioned, but the carpet. As in, they would be sleeping on it, through the night as it flew onwards.

Trey objected. He objected strenuously, and at length. The Quarass silenced him with three remarks.

“You may put a pillow to stop you from rolling. The carpet is large enough for all three of us to sleep. And Gazi Pathseeker will watch during our sleep and sleep in the day. If there are any obstacles in the air or if you sleepwalk, she will notice.”

Trey still didn’t like it, but Gazi just nodded. She was not happy with the Quarass, even after all day of flying. But the three had a quite pleasant meal of unleavened bread mixed with pots of curries, lentils, and other side dishes. The Quarass had sleeping gear, food, and any number of items in her bag of holding.

Trey had brought his iPhone, changes of clothes, and so on. When he asked about bathroom breaks during the night, the Quarass just looked at him. She’d stopped three times that day for that purpose and Trey supposed she wasn’t waking up at night for a fourth.

That was the first night, where Trey found himself sleeping, waking in a panic, and sleeping in the middle of the carpet as Gazi sat in her same spot, eyes moving in the darkness. The Quarass slept in roughly the same spot. Twice she rolled over into Trey. The third time she actually rolled towards the edge. Trey and Gazi woke her up.

“This body seems to wish to move in its sleep. Unfortunate.”

The Quarass yawned and went back to sleep. Trey slept fitfully until he found himself waking up mid-morning; he’d been asleep well past dawn and Gazi was sleeping on her back where the Quarass had been. Trey looked around and saw the Quarass. She was brushing her teeth after having eaten breakfast.

“Teeth rot. That is something both your world and my memories agree on. Tell me more about this toothpaste. I have many compounds, but they are all foul to me.”

That was the first day of Trey’s flight across Chandrar. It was better than an airplane in some ways, many ways, actually. Food, ability to stand up and walk about—

Bugs smacking into you at high velocity was a downside, and the chill and spending longer than an actual airplane were downsides. The biggest though was probably Gazi and the Quarass’ frosty attitudes to each other. Trey had to ask when Gazi had woken up for lunch why that was.

“Why don’t you two like each other?”

Gazi and the Quarass looked at each other. The sleepy Gazi, who’d really woken up just to nosh, focused all four smaller eyes on Trey. A curious inversion of a normal unfocused look. The Quarass answered as she finished the last of a spicy Yellat-curry.

“She is too observant. And she reports to her [King].”

“She is the Quarass. We are wary of each other.”

Gazi nodded as she reached for some spinach-cheese dip. She ate as Trey helped himself to the last of the wonderfully delicious beef slices. This was a meal prepared for the Quarass, and even if it was travel-food, it was delicious.

Without hesitation, both the Quarass and Gazi reached over and plucked the meat from his flatbread. Trey stared at them as they chewed. After a moment, he went on.

“But we’re on the same side.”

“For now.”

Gazi murmured. The Quarass nodded. They both caught themselves in agreement and exchanged a look. And then they gave each other respectful nods. They might have to kill each other, or be at odds in time. It was just how it was.

Mystifying.



—-



They were headed towards a Shield Kingdom. Another Shield Kingdom, rather. Trey had forgotten that there were four, and Germina was one of them. People had made something of a fuss over that, he recalled, but he didn’t know why.

He did after the Quarass’ lessons. Part of her agreement with Flos had been to teach Trey while they flew together. Part of that was magic. Part was history.

“Show me your arrows. Conjure them as fast and as many as possible.”

“Rain down on my foes, arrows of light! Illuminate the sky and strike with profusion!”

Trey chanted the mnemonic aid to casting the spell. It actually did make a difference, but you had to cast it by chanting each time. But with it, he could fire fifteen magical arrows over the course of ten seconds, then fifteen again. The glowing yellow-white arrows flew past the carpet, and all thirty missed a very angry bird which flew out of their way, honking.

Trey managed eight more before he had to stop. The Quarass nodded to the slumbering Gazi.

“Pathseeker taught you to do that?”

“Yeah…she said it was a good, basic spell.”

“She is correct. That you learned to cast that within a few months of training is impressive.”

“Really? But they’re Tier 1—”

“I counted thirty eight. [Light Arrow] is less powerful than an actual arrow, because it is a blunt impact, but it has the same force. The next step would be to harden the light. If you have a Skill or the knowledge, that would be a rain of thirty-eight arrows.”

“Oh! Well, I know a few more.”

“Yes. Show me your barrier.”

“[Sand Wall]!”

Some of the sand blew directly over the carpet and all three passengers. The Quarass stopped the carpet as Gazi woke up. And then the Quarass pushed Trey over the edge of the carpet and he demonstrated [Featherfall].

“You are a [Sand Mage]?”

“Yes.”

Trey was Level 16, thanks to Gazi’s relentless tutoring. That was apparently good, although Teres was Level 19.

“You both level exceedingly fast. But [Mages] are said to be more difficult to level than other classes. By and large, that is true. The Archmages of Wistram have ever suffered because to reach the highest level, one must not only study, but practice magic of great power. A [Warrior] must simply challenge ever-greater foes.”

The Quarass lectured Trey as he, sweating, showed off more spells. She corrected him twice, informing him where his control of mana was sloppy. That was a big thing with Gazi, Ulyse, Mirin, and the Quarass.

“Perfecting the art of casting any spell is more important than quantity at this point. Conserving your mana, making each spell work with utmost efficiency—that will put you ahead of other magic-users in time. King Reimarch intends for me to help you shape your class. Do you have any other talents?”

“Um—um—[Mana Reserve], and [Eidetic Spell Memory], and [Magic Thought], and—”

Trey rattled off a list of basic Skills that were to a [Mage] what [Lesser Strength] and [Weapon Proficiency: Sword] was to Teres. The Quarass nodded, informing Trey he needed more mana well Skills, and then paused as he listed one of his actually original Skills.

“What was that?”

“[Basic Golem Shaping].”

“Show me.”

Trey blushed. Gazi had had words with him when she’d discovered that he’d become a Level 15 [Sand Mage] and gained that Skill on leveling up. She hadn’t minded [Sand Mage], but…

“Well, they’re sort of silly. I just do them for fun—”

“Show me. And if you blow sand in my eyes, I will make you regret it.”

Gingerly, Trey conjured a bit of sand up and began to form it. Now he had a Skill, he could make one as tall as his knee in less than a minute. Trey had tried one his height, but it was very difficult and no one among Parasol Stroll was a golem-expert.

The Quarass stared at the cute bobble-headed version of Gazi that waved a sword aimlessly and charged her lower half. She blocked it with one hand.

“…Why does it look so?”

“It’s—well, it’s just something silly from my world. I think they look cute like that.”

Trey mumbled. He showed the Quarass more, his little collection of mini-Dragons, [Knights], a tiny Wyvern—they duked it out in the carpet, shedding sand as they smacked each other lightly.

They weren’t strong. Trey had the thought that he was doing their creation wrong—he was using sand, since he was sort of good at it [Magical Specialization: Sand] was one of his Skills, which was very specific, but even when he tried to make their weapons hard, they were only fairly stiff.

Trey had once tried to ambush Teres with three chest-sized Sand Golems, which was the limit of his ability. They’d looked good, and she’d had trouble cutting them in half, even with her enchanted sword, but all they did was slow her down until she eventually hacked them to death. Flos had laughed his beard off with Mars at the scene.

Gazi had not been pleased, especially since Teres had gained [Shadow Cut] as her latest unique Skill. Orthenon and Gazi seemed to be competing through them on who could raise the best twin.

Trey was prepared to be berated by the Quarass, but she was mostly just intrigued.

“Your passion is your passion. And Sand Golems are not meant to replace wood, or stone, or any other material. Has Pathseeker informed you how best to use them?”

“Yeah. Blind people, make them engulf people or use them as shields—I can make a big one, but it’s really slow and it’s not useful at the moment. Um—use them as spies or to deliver things once I can see or control them at range—”

“As traps, buried in the ground. They have utility. But there are ways to make them stronger yet. To make sand harder.”

“Really?”

Trey looked up as one of his mini-Wyverns roared silently and charged a group of the brave sand-Drakes, recreating a scene from Pallass. Sand Golems were slow, but he was getting the trick of making them faster. The problem was they were so malleable. If they were hard, he was certain he could get them to run.

“Yes. I know of a few sand-based specializations. I will consider which one to attempt to give you. Now, for Pathseeker.”

The young man stared as the Quarass turned towards Gazi. The half-Gazer, Gazi Pathseeker, Named Adventurer and [Scout], turned in the midst of removing some grit from her armor.

“Me, Quarass?”

“Your [King] asked me if there was anything I could give you, half-Gazer. I promised him to try.”

The Quarass looked down her nose at Gazi. The half-Gazer bared her teeth.

“Well then. What would you like to know?”

“Your Level. And your exact class?”

Trey held his breath. He was beginning to understand just how much information like that mattered. Gazi stared for a long moment at the Quarass. Then she shifted.

“[War Scout]. Level 45. [Mage]. Level 12. [Silent Commander]. Level 18.”

Trey exhaled hard. Gazi looked at him with one eye.

“Least of the Seven. I told you, Trey.”

“But you’re level—”

“She has two low-level classes. I assume you hoped they would consolidate?”

The half-Gazer folded her arms, uncomfortable as Trey had known her.

“The [War Scout] class is a product of my [Infiltrator], [Fighter], [Rider], and [Archer] classes over time. But it has been so since Level 30. It is not…unique.”

She stopped, looking at the Quarass. The ruler of Germina pursed her lips.

“It is unusual. I know Mars is over Level 60. The other Seven…”

“Were all above Level 50. At least. More than that I will not say.”

Gazi bared her teeth. The Quarass nodded, her eyes flickering.

“I knew as much. But you—interesting. You should have gained a more powerful class by your deeds. You fought and slew your enemies in great number as your [King] rode to battle. I wonder.”

She stood up and paced back and forth, eying the half-Gazer. Trey had so many questions, but Gazi was waiting. At last, the Quarass came back and pointed.

“Your armor and blade. I heard a rumor of it. Several, and I have known of its durability in battle. Tell me, Pathseeker. Where did it come from?”

This time Gazi hesitated for a long while. The Quarass stared at her.

“We are allies now, Pathseeker. You have already given the ransom of queens away.”

The [Scout] bared her teeth.

“Very well. It was given to his Majesty by the Dwarves. In exchange for an order gone wrong. His Majesty had requested arms and armor fit for an entire army. Something went wrong. It was never said what, but the Dwarves failed to deliver anything but this.”

She touched the brown scale-armor and sword. It was a complete set that covered every part of her body up to her neck. Trey had sometimes wondered why Gazi never took it off. Nor was her blade or armor enchanted. But he had never seen Gazi repairing it or even doing more than cleaning it, either.

“Ah.”

The Quarass’ sigh was that of someone piecing together a secret. Gazi looked at her sharply.

“Well?”

“Did you or your lord ever discover who made the armor, Pathseeker? Or why the Dwarves thought it was worth an army’s worth of weaponry?”

The half-Gazer paused. She unsheathed her claymore and Trey saw the metal was silver, almost white, different from steel. He stared at it; it was in fact, blank, even after polishing. No reflection.

“No. The Dwarves refused to answer, save to claim there had been an error. They asked if milord was satisfied with the armor. He tested it with warhammer, with spell. He dragged it a hundred miles behind a horse, then ordered it put before a wagon loaded as heavy as could be. He had it run over and then declared he was satisfied. The blade was no less sharp, the armor never dented.”

Trey whistled quietly. The Quarass only nodded.

“I heard a rumor that an incident had occurred in the home of Dwarves. That the best of their [Forgemasters] and [Smiths] were exiled. Some disappeared. Others went to major cities. I tried to entice them myself.”

“Do you know what the armor is made of? I mean, who made it?”

Trey looked at Gazi. The half-Gazer shook her head slowly.

“No Dwarf I have met has ever spoken of it. Many do not know. Two, I met in war who knew…something. Even with spell and…torture. They refused to speak.”

In the silence, the Quarass nodded.

“I know something.”

“What?”

The Quarass turned her head slowly and shook her head, never taking her eyes off Gazi.

“It is not worth the price your [King] paid to tell you. Nor any price I would give that even Fetohep could match. But it explains your armor. It was made by a true master.”

In the silence, Gazi looked as though she was weighing the odds of…something. In the end, she stayed silent, the claymore on her knees. The Quarass slowly went on.

“Dwarves. That explains why your level is lower than the other Seven. Your armor and blade are a crutch.”

She pointed at Gazi. The half-Gazer slowly nodded.

“I see.”

“If you wish to gain a stronger class, throw yourself into battle without your armor. You may die. If you wish to merge the other classes—fight with the armor on and wait. By Level 60, both of the other classes will merge. But you will be far longer in reaching it, and forced to face greater foes than you will find in common armies.”

And that was all. Gazi nodded slowly. She was weighing the Quarass’ words, not with surprise, but as if she’d confirmed something she’d known all along.

“Do you have any specialty classes?”

The Quarass raised her brows.

“From [War Scout]? One or two. Carry rot and drink poison until it is in your blood. Slaughter your foes. [Deathbringer Scout]. But I do not think you would wish it. It is not a class meant for peace.”

“No. Others?”

“[Scout Commander] or variations that give [Commander] a higher class.”

“No.”

Both women chorused it at the same time. The Quarass went on.

“[Warmage Scout], [Shadowworld Wanderer], [Spectral Scoutlord]—all tie more heavily into your [Mage] class. And they are powerful. But you would have to be able to cast magic from something other than your eyes to gain such classes. And that armor blocks your spellcasting, doesn’t it?”

Gazi froze. The Quarass smiled. This time there was a triumphant note in her voice. Slowly Gazi looked up and nodded.

“That is correct.”

She was not happy. Trey felt a nervous sweat break out across his body. The Quarass paused, unconcerned, and flicked her fingers.

“Then that is where the matter lies. Use wands if you must. Your gaze, once healed, is powerful. But it will never level your specific [Mage] class. A pity. But for the armor you might have been a decent spellsword.”

“So my lord believes. Thank you for your help. Quarass.”

“I will consider my work done with you. Now, Trey Atwood. Attend to me. You will practice your aim while you learn of this world.”



—-



The Quarass of Germina could use magic. She did so while she taught Trey history. She also made him aim at passing birds and informed him that if she didn’t have fresh meat by tonight, he would not eat.

Gazi was generous by comparison. Sweating, Trey kept his eyes peeled for poor birds. He liked animals! But he was also aware the Quarass meant what she said. She wanted him to curve and shoot his projectiles faster. Fundamentals.

The Quarass was also aware of Trey and Teres’ ignorance of this world, so this journey was also a history lesson. At least, on the Shield Kingdoms.

“There are four. One lies in the eastern section of Chandrar, Germina. Another lies south-west. A’ctelios Salash, our destination. Another further west. Qualvekkaras.”

“Um—”

“In the desert of Zeikhal lies the last. Merreid. The city is far north, to the west of the Claiven Earth, almost halfway across the continent, but nearer the topmost edge of the Great Desert. Is sits as a trading route.”

“So what are the Shield Kingdoms?”

Gazi was napping again; the light was fading, and she’d take night-watch. The Quarass flicked her fingers, delicately ahead.

“You ask this—as easy to say, ‘what is the history of Chandrar’? I will be brief. But the Shield Kingdoms are as much tale as they are history. I am part of that history. Listen, judge. This is what is said.”

She conjured up a flash of red. Trey gasped as a miniature Dragon, a beautiful and awesome creature flew past them. It was small, for the Quarass was weak in magic, but it was so vivid. But she had seen them.

Dragons.

The Quarass’ voice was low, almost hypnotic as she began to intone slowly, the wind rushing past the two on the carpet.

“Chandrar has always been Chandrar. Dry, and of the deserts. Nations come, and bring rain, or try to tame the deserts. What came before Germina, I do not know. My memories stretch only as far back to the first Quarass. And she was born in an age when Dragons came to rule Chandrar.”

“Rule? How?”

The Dragon alighted on a fortress made of stone. It reached down and with one claw, dexterously picked up a struggling shape. A Garuda. The Dragon squeezed. Trey turned white. The Quarass nodded.

“With force. Dragons are scarce in these years. They have almost left the earth, like Giants and Djinni. And they were never plentiful, but once there were enough to rule. They did so. But they were overthrown. That is a common story. The world over they were overthrown, chased back to their Walled Cities and then exiled from even those places by their children, the Drakes. But where Chandrar’s story begins is in the Shield Kingdoms.”

The view changed. A woman strode forwards and threw a spear. The Dragon laughed until the spear lodged in its scales. Then it fell backwards, as black rot engulfed it. The woman turned her head, just a tiny figure. The girl nodded to her.

“The first Quarass. She was powerful. So powerful she created a kingdom. She had a class and level beyond any Quarass since her. And she came to create the class—Quarass—and her legacy, that should Dragons ever fly in the sky again, Germina, her kingdom, would never be without protection.”

She held up a hand, though Trey was spellbound, watching as the illusion matched the Quarass’ words, revealing an aged woman, lying on a bed, and then a new Quarass, being surrounded by her people.

“No, do not ask me her level or class. That is an utmost secret. But she created Germina. What was known as a Shield Kingdom. To shield against the tyrants’ return. Each nation who did battle with Dragons took on the name, and the duty. They formed a bond—that no Shield Kingdom would ever march to war on another!”

She smiled ruefully. The Quarass fished out something from her bag of holding. A little pipe. Trey opened his mouth and she shot him a look as she ignited it with a spark. She puffed on it, then exhaled slowly.

“Vices never change. And I remember them all. This will not corrode my lungs, boy. Where was I? Ah, a pledge not to declare war. Hah, well, that oath failed within a decade, but a greater alliance was made; that even if a Shield Kingdom should oppose another, they should not perish. Each Shield Kingdom should at least endeavor to keep the others alive. That some might be left when Dragons return.”

She sighed. Trey looked at her.

“And did they?”

“Oh, yes. Twice. And the Shield Kingdoms have rallied for other causes. The Crelers, for one. When the world was crawling with them, the Shield Kingdoms stood. We must stand, and endure. That is why Chandrar worried when I was slain. Not because Germina fell; that was my predecessor’s folly. But even King Reimarch acknowledges this fact: the Shield Kingdom of Germina must endure. The Quarass must live.”

In the twilight, the Quarass’ eyes flashed. Trey nodded slowly.

“But what makes a Shield Kingdom unique? Germina, Merreid, uh, Quel—Qualve—”

“Germina, Merreid, Qualvekkaras, and A’ctelios Salash. We go to A’ctelios, but the leaders of Merreid and Qualvekkaras will meet us there. Each Shield Kingdom is different, Trey Atwood. But what makes them unique is a common feature. They were all founded with the intent to stand forever. Khelt may have well been one had it existed in that time—perhaps the Shield Kingdoms will grow if it endures another millennia. Perhaps. But what binds us from that age is—”

“Bird!”

Trey pointed his wand. A bird squawked. Trey pumped a fist and the Quarass gave him the longest, most silently peeved look imaginable.

“As I was saying. What binds our four nations is—trust.”

“Trust?”

Trey looked at the Quarass, abashed. She didn’t turn back for the bird, which he thought was a bit of a waste. She nodded.

“Trust, indeed. Listen. The Shield Kingdom furthest west sits on a mountain. An entire nation occupies the mountain, from its roosts, growing, repopulating. It is the pride of the Garuda, a nation which can command the wandering tribes by its authority. For it has never been taken. Qualvekkaras.”

She conjured an image for Trey, a city of wild heights, with flying Garuda of every color who had built their tall, open homes across a mountain. And at the summit was a city filled with buildings, but no walkways. A city made for Garuda.

Next, a Garuda with white feathers appeared, flecked with gold around her wingtips. The Quarass sighed.

“The Garuda of Qualvekkaras do not have immortal rulers. None of the other four Shield Kingdoms do. Their rulers come and go, unlike Fetohep and I. However, the royal bloodline of Qualvekkaras is strong. But as I told you, trust made each Shield Kingdom. And Qualvekkaras has a protection far greater than one person.”

The view of the mountain drew back. And now—on the carpet sat a mountain, and surrounding it was a colossal sandstorm, whipping winds that blew in a cyclone around the mountain. Trey saw the Quarass gesture to it. For a moment the winds stilled, but then they howled again. There was even lightning in the magical storm.

“The Garuda trusted to magic and weather. That Dragons could control the skies, but not the very sands and world forever.”

“So it—it’s a magical storm? Magical weather? But how can it last so long? Has it been blowing since—”

“Since the day Qualvekkaras was founded. Yes. The Garuda shall not die so long as Qualvekkaras stands. And it has never fallen, but it has knelt. Onto Merreid.”

The image vanished. Trey saw a different city next, one of sweeping, polished stone, an oddity in the dusty continent. In fact, the city was flawless and the walls—

The walls were insanely high. Not as high as a Walled City, but the city was built of the stone. And it was magical. Shifting! Trey saw the view change and realized he was staring down at a labyrinth of a city that moved.

“Merreid is but a single city, but it has more in it than many people would experience in their lifetimes. The builders of Merreid trusted to craft, to stone and metal and gem and thing, brought together with will and law to create something larger than any person. Dragons fought from atop Walled Cities and even the ancient Drake fortress-cities could not stop their ancestor’s wrath. But they never took Merreid, because it was built to last an eternity.”

The Quarass smiled fondly, gesturing. Trey saw the image change, perhaps to a memory. A street full of wonders, someone swallowing fire and belching it for coins—and then—a flying figure. A laughing face, made of magic and cloud, changing to become a lion’s head. Trey pointed.

“What is that?”

“Djinni. Do you not know Djinni?”

“I know genies—I mean, djinni. But I thought they were rare!”

There were hundreds that the Quarass was showing him! The little ruler shrugged.

“They are bound, as I say. They were given an order to maintain and defend the city before the first Quarass was born. Not long before, but still. They have continued to carry out that order. And no force will release them. They will die defending this city; no ruler of Merreid can command them to do battle.”

“Oh.”

Trey looked again at the flying shapes, the changing figures. He hesitated.

“Forever? But I thought they couldn’t be bound like that. Don’t you get three wishes?”

The Quarass gave Trey an odd look.

“Of course. But you can wish for anything. Including that they carry out a task forever. It is a waste of a djinni, and there are few left, but Merreid was founded when Djinni and their half-mortal kin, the Jinn were both plentiful. The Jinn have died and the Djinni are slaves. Powerful, dangerous. If you find one of their vessels, be wary of the wishes you make.”

“But how powerful are they?”

The Quarass puffed for a bit.

“Some were as powerful as [Archmages]. Others are not. It varies, as with all people. What is true is that Djinni are exceedingly useful. Even your [King] would desire one, and to face a Djinni is a dangerous feat. They are almost pure magic, so to slay one you must use spells. I think that is why your [King] laughs at your world, Trey. He thinks a single djinn could conquer it. Well, he is a fool, but he is right that…”

The Quarass lapsed into thoughtful silence. She had been told of Earth, and Trey didn’t like knowing that she knew. But it had made her an ally. For now.

“U-um, Quarass. I know you want to talk about Merreid, but I want to know about djinn, please. You have three wishes? And they grant each one?”

“Within their power. It is an ancient geas, from when each was bound. It makes them servants, but rebellious ones. You must word your desires carefully, for they will turn on you if they have a slightest chance.”

Trey felt something hot in his stomach.

“Then they’re not servants. They’re—”

“Slaves.”

Gazi opened one of her eyes. The half-Gazer raised her head a fraction. The Quarass turned.

“Yes.”

That was all. After a moment, the Quarass went on.

“But you seem to be making a mistake, Trey Atwood. Depending on the binding spell, they are indeed compelled to grant the asker’s desire. Sometimes it is one wish, or three, or even as many as thirteen, or a hundred.”

“A hundred—”

“Depending on the enchantment of the bottle. But why would you risk it? Every first wish someone who comes across a djinn-bottle makes is for more wishes. Ah—but be careful. If you use up your last wish for more without wording it right, a djinn may free themselves between your next wish. Normally, the first wish is so lengthy one spends hours uttering it, to ensure the djinni cannot alter the wish in any way and you are protected from all harms by it. However—”

The Quarass was going on, but Trey waved an urgent hand in her face.

“Wait! You can’t ask for more wishes! Isn’t that—illegal?”

The Quarass stopped smoking. Gazi raised her head. Both gave Trey a nonplussed look.

“Why would it be illegal?”

“Because—isn’t it unfair?”

“To whom? The djinn? Those who enslaved them didn’t care. Ask for more wishes. Why would you…? Many ask for the djinn to be lifelong protectors and servants. They must only restrict the djinn’s power immensely, less they break their word-bonds and slay their masters. But of course their masters have infinite wishes. They just must be very careful not to leave loopholes. Illegal? Nonsense.”

The Quarass snorted. She tapped her pipe over the side of the carpet and refilled it. Trey opened his mouth.

“So—”

“Merreid. I will not discuss djinn all night. And you must learn etiquette.”

The Quarass ignored Trey. She pointed down at the city.

“Merreid is a safe haven. Its bazaars are truly neutral; no one may break the laws of Merreid, not even its ‘rulers’. The djinn are its servants. And the city thinks.”

She nodded at Trey’s sharp look.

“The [Architects] who created the city and wrote the laws which shape the city’s will and magic were much like the deceased one of your King’s Seven, Drevish. They did not trust mortal weakness. Sensible. Which is why Merreid has endured.”

“In that case, why are Merreid’s rulers allowed to meet with the other nation’s rulers? That’s why we’re going to A’ctelios, right?”

Trey saw the Quarass’ lips curve into a slight smile at the question.

“Well, Merreid’s rulers control the people. Not the djinn, who only defend the city. They can manage trade and other qualities. It is still worth entertaining them. But yes, they are less influential. Still, each Shield Kingdom serves a purpose. Qualvekkaras leads Garuda to some extents. A’ctelios, like Merreid, is a place of trade. Even if A’ctelios is more dangerous than Merreid.”

“And Germina? What does it do?”

The Quarass blinked.

“In the past? Before my predecessor ruined its reputation? Germina was a place of wisdom. Rulers, [Mages]—many would come from far and wide to seek my knowledge in exchange for gifts, favors.”

“Of…course.”

Trey tried to nod seriously. The little Quarass glared out of her child’s body.

“My predecessor was a fool. She slew her own mother, a matricide, and was forced to know of her mother, the Quarass-before-her’s true contempt for her daughter in her last moments. She was forced to live through slaying herself, and trapped by her class. She was a fool. But yes, Quarasses have been great and poor. I will be one of the greatest.”

She lit her pipe again. Trey just nodded. The Quarass puffed and sighed.

“Before you ask—yes. There were more. Once, there were seventeen Shield Kingdoms. They fell apart, were destroyed by calamity or simple foolishness—their protections turned out to be less than perfect. We four are the last who remain, by chance as much as trust.”

She looked terribly sad and old as she said that. Trey hated to see it, so he searched for questions.

“Why seventeen?”

She shrugged.

“Because only seventeen nations had the will to resist Dragons in that ancient time. It could have been a hundred.”

“And what did the people of Germina trust when they made their kingdom?”

The young man looked at the Quarass. Her pipe’s small glow was the only light now, as they rushed on through the desert. Gazi was sitting up, her back to them as she opened their prepared dinner, but she was watching, listening. The little Quarass smiled ruefully.

“They trusted to the one who had founded their nation to guide them forevermore. That a single soul could bring down a Dragon. That even time could not break her will.”

The group on the carpet paused for dinner, then, and Trey ate heartily, savoring sweet rice from Baleros, rolled up into little balls and seasoned with bits of nuts, or fruit, like candy. Among other dishes. The Quarass related the final Shield Kingdom as they ate.

“A’ctelios Salash? The Tomb-Dwellers trusted no one thing or person or creation. They simply trusted that they had killed worse than Dragons. We head there now, and it will be easier to see than explain. I caution you before we enter: eat nothing within the city save that you bring in. To be safe, eat nothing at all. Drink nothing. Is that clear?”

Trey felt the back of his hair prickle. He was reminded of the old legends, old tales like faeries and whatnot. Like never looking back as you left the underworld. He’d always thought that sounded incredibly hard and that poor Orpheus had gotten a raw deal.

“Why not eat anything in A’ctelios? Can I see an illusion?”

The Quarass paused. And two of Gazi’s eyes swung towards Trey. The girl chewed and swallowed.

“No. Have you been there, Pathseeker?”

“I have stepped within one of the outer places. Briefly. I know the rules.”

The Quarass nodded. She looked at Trey.

“To see it is a terrible thing. Not all the Shield Kingdoms were made of virtue, Trey Atwood. And A’ctelios, like Qualvekkaras, has never been taken by force. But its protection is simply the people and the…city…itself.”

“How?”

She refused to answer him. The Quarass looked ahead, as if counting the time to the city.

“We shall arrive the day after tomorrow. We shall camp early tomorrow, arrive at dawn. When we do—I have little fear you will give offense. It is hard to offend those in A’ctelios Salash, even should you scorn everything offered. But it was a risk, bringing you and Pathseeker here. One your [King] is willing to take. And I must meet my fellow Shield Kingdoms. However, I fear for you more than Pathseeker, Atwood.”

“Fear…what?”

The little Quarass looked at Trey.

“I fear that we will lose you to the Carven City, Trey Atwood. Germina is the Throne of Ger, protected by the Quarass who lives forever. Qualvekkaras is the Kingdom of the Winds, the last bastion of the Garuda. Merreid is the Labyrinth City, the Bazaar of Fables, the city that thinks.”

She paused, and her eyes glittered darkly by starlight.

“A’ctelios Salash is the Carven City. Tombhome. The Shield Kingdom which rots.”



—-



As promised, they reached A’ctelios Salash on the fourth day, after sleeping a night on the ground on the third. That was a relief to Trey, because despite the more easy company of Gazi and the Quarass, their close proximity began to wear on each other.

Trey especially; after three days, he was beginning to smell a bit in his clothing. Gazi and the Quarass made him sit downwind. Before they camped for the third night and he was able to rinse himself with magical water, they would snap at him.

“Cease passing gas!”

“I will kick you off the carpet, Trey. You are worse than Mars.”

“Stop feeding me beans! It’s not my fault!”

Tensions eased that night with solid ground, a warm fire, and the ability to walk about instead of the permanent carpet. The Quarass made Trey practice a few bows and gestures, for each Shield Kingdom; Qualvekkaras, was the only one that demanded specific gestures, like Germina.

And she talked more with Trey about the history of the other Shield Kingdoms, of Chandrar which was poor yet wealthy in equal measures. Poor in arable dirt, land which could support pastures or livestock like the other nations, but which had buried treasures, resources and more untapped treasure from old days than any other continent.

“After all, Naq-Alrama steel has been forged by Clan Tannousin and others in Chandrar. And it is a substance beyond most metals in this world. Yet a travelling clan may forge it where [Blacksmiths] in Terandria fail. Because Chandrar holds minerals and substances of great worth in its sands.”

The Quarass was an excellent teacher since she had lived through almost anything you cared to ask her. She was not shy about admitting the limits of her power either; most of her stories involved her death, whether by incompetence, accident, or disaster. She seldom died of old age.

“The Shield Kingdoms are powerful in their way, Trey Atwood. But do not mistake our might; it is not to conquer and shake this world. All four nations are mighty, and A’ctelios, Merreid, and Qualvekkaras are difficult to assail. But our strength lies in our ability to endure. Qualvekkaras has often been starved of resources and forced to capitulate. Merreid’s mortal rulers are susceptible to corruption.”

“And A’ctelios? What about it?”

The Quarass refused to answer.

“You will see. It is easier to let you see. Remember what I told you.”

Her comments were foreboding, and Trey slept somewhat unwell that night. In the morning, he boarded the carpet, yawning, and they flew towards the Carven City.



—-



At first, Trey did not know what he was looking at. A’ctelios lay on the horizon, an inky, misshapen thing, like one of the countless dunes which had taken on a blackness of color, and solidified. From afar, it was but a strange hill with five bright points of strange color, sitting in the sands.

The road to A’ctelios was windswept, and sand covered many portions of it. Six roads led in, all old of time, laid and then half-buried by the shifting deserts. Even the city seemed to be close to burial; sand had built up high around it.

The young man did not see it for what it was, first. He did not know why Gazi tensed, and all four smaller eyes stared ahead, unblinking, or why the Quarass’ shoulders hunched. But he caught what they thought and understood something of A’ctelios from afar.

Yet the truth only revealed itself as the carpet flew onwards. The city was silent, and Trey saw only a handful of travellers on the road.

“I thought A’ctelios was a trading place.”

“It is. But its traders do not stray far. And those who trade with the Carven City know better than to travel by day. The suns scorch, Trey Atwood. I wondered if we might see delegations from the other two Shield Kingdoms. They have likely already arrived.”

The Quarass took them down. Now, the Shield Kingdom rose up. Trey saw it was in fact, massive. But he did not understand its curious geography.

“Is it—a hill? No. Is that stone?”

Neither woman answered. Trey stared. There were five, rounded things attached to each hill. It was a complete structure, but lumpen, irregular of form save for the five spheres. Each one was odd, not quite ringed, but with a spiral in the center of sorts, a curious pattern that drew inwards again and again, until it reached an inevitable center from which the light shone.

Trey did not understand. The Quarass slowed her flight, pointing towards the middle-most structure.

“That is our destination. Boy. Do you see what it is?”

Trey hesitated. Something tickled at his mind, but it was unable to, reluctant to make the connection. He looked uncertainly at Gazi. And she stared back.

“Look, Trey. What do you see?”

“Five entrances? That’s not very defensible, is it?”

Trey tried to joke, pointing at the five spheres connected to the—he stared again. Strange, now he saw it. No [Architect] would have envisioned such uneven shape. It had no purpose, in the logic of construction or even art. It was—

And then Trey looked at Gazi. At her. The half-Gazer stared at Trey. He beheld her face. Four eyes, staring at him and the shape waiting in the distance. And her fifth, closed eye. Slowly, his head turned. And he saw.

Five eyes stared outwards, living pupils and long dead-flesh. They waited, in the gloaming, casting a shadow that ate away at the sun. The misshapen head lay buried in the sand, and from the depths of the eyes twisted a madness not made of any symmetry nature envisioned. They stared at Trey, and he screamed. For he was never meant to see such eyes, or the form that held them—

“Trey! Trey Atwood! Look at me!”

The voice stopped the scream. Trey’s throat was hoarse. He coughed, tasting iron, and turned. The Quarass’ bright yellowed gaze kept hold of his. Two round irises, two normal eyes, for all they were immortal. Trey realized he was panting.

“Look at me. Do not look away. I command you.”

The Quarass’ voice was sharp. Trey held still, shuddering. It was still there. Staring at him.

No—ahead. The blank gaze of the thing was fixed on nothing but forever, which lay beyond the recumbent form that lay sleeping. Or dreaming? Trey’s eyes began to move.

“Look at me. Wait. It is not alive, Trey. It is dead. Look at me.”

Trey kept his eyes on the Quarass. Slowly, ever so slowly, she let go. He realized her fingers had dug into his skin. His throat—Trey began to cough. How long had he been staring?

“You did well. Sometimes those who gaze on A’ctelios Salash and understand its nature are lost for far longer. Look. Follow my finger, but slowly.”

The Quarass pointed. Trey followed her finger. He flinched—

And saw the Carven City for what it was. A monstrous, no, eldritch head stared at him. Just the top of it. And five eyes stared outwards. Five eyes. And Trey realized they were hollow.

“The light. The light. They’re inside it! How can anyone—”

He moaned. The Quarass blocked his gaze for one moment.

“Focus on that eye. There. You can see them in it. Do not behold it as a whole. It is dead, Trey. They have hollowed it.”

“What is it?”

Gazi rose, slightly. Her hand clutched the hilt of her claymore, but her voice was very calm. Too calm.

“The Carven City. A’ctelios trusted they had killed worse than Dragons, is that not the legend, Quarass?”

“Yes. This is what they slew. And they live in it to this day. Behold, Trey. Look into the eye.”

Trey saw. The line of the thing’s…eye twisted and curved, like a magical sigil gone wrong. The Quarass stopped him again, made him look for the single hole in the center. The iris.

It was open. Light shone from within, the only light on the shrouded body. It was a portal. All five eyes had been hollowed.

“Why? But why?”

Who would do such a thing? Trey shuddered. He wanted to be sick, or faint. The Quarass spoke levelly, but even she did not stare long at A’ctelios Salash.

“In an age before the Dragons ruled, something came from beyond the edge of the world. It must have destroyed nations. But here it fell. And A’ctelios Salash was the nation that sprang from its corpse. Even when Dragons ruled, they did not take this place. And the people of A’ctelios first sheltered in its eyes. Then, over millennia, dug deeper.”

“They live there?”

“Oh yes. The children live in there. They seldom leave. It still feeds them. Still rots to this day, if decay touches it at all. The eyes are filled with structure; they dig deeper.”

Trey shuddered. The Quarass slowly moved the carpet forwards. Trey reached out.

“I can’t go inside!”

“You must. It is not as bad inside, Trey Atwood.”

“No, I can’t. That thing—it’s from my world! I know what it is! It’s not a normal monster. It’s—”

Both Gazi and the Quarass looked at Trey. The Quarass listened. She shook her head.

“It is not that, Trey. Just a thing from the world’s end. The people of Drath hunt them. I have seen others. This one was simply the largest.”

“It’s not dead.”

Trey spoke with utter conviction. The Quarass shook her head.

“It’s brain is hollow, Trey. I have lived countless lifetimes and visited A’ctelios Salash countless thousands of instances. Each time it is deeper. They hollowed the eyes first, then the head. Now they dig lower. It is dead; nothing lives. It is true the flesh does not rot, but then—neither does Dragonflesh. It is made of magic and time and it is disturbing. But you will be safe with me.”

The carpet flew onwards. Trey shuddered and averted his gaze as they flew towards the central eye.

“What kind of people live in there?”

“The kind you expect.”

Gazi’s voice was low. Trey looked at her.

“Did his M—did Flos see this?”

“He conquered Chandrar. Of course he did. I have walked A’ctelios once before, Trey Atwood. It is terrible, but few realize what it is as you did. And it is a place to trade. With…limitations.”

The Quarass nodded. Trey saw tiny shapes, moving from within the center eye. They had been spotted. There were no doors, nothing to stop visitors. He did not think that mattered. Who would attack such a place?

“Did—did his Majesty conquer A’ctelios? You said it was never taken by force, Quarass. Then…”

She nodded slowly.

“The Carven City’s folk are much like Merreid’s guardians. Strong to defend. They do not emerge from their Shield Kingdom often. I think they would be a terrible force. But flawed. I am told Flos Reimarch vassalized A’ctelios in a single day as his armies marched past.”

She glanced at Gazi. The half-Gazer’s four eyes were staring ahead. She nodded slowly.

“My lord looked upon the tomb-kingdom and desired nothing of what it held. He only lamented that the age of A’ctelios’ glories were past. Although even he agreed that it was a mercy not to fight such a thing.”

“Gazi. It looks like…”

Trey couldn’t stop looking at her face. It was not the same. All five eyes were the same size. But Gazi’s face—she glanced at him.

“Yes. Milord noticed it too. I feel nothing but unease, Trey. I do not know what died here.”

The Quarass tapped her lips thoughtfully.

“Even for one such as I, Gazers are a rare species that seldom visited Chandrar. It is said they may have come of A’ctelios, or rather, another such beast in ages past. But that is a rumor.”

She glanced at Gazi. The half-Gazer bared her teeth.

“You would have to ask my kin in Baleros that. I have never been there.”

“True. Ah, we are approaching. Remember what I said, Trey Atwood. Forget everything if you must, but remember—do not eat in A’ctelios.”

“What will happen if I do?”

There were people in the entryway. The Quarass flew upwards, slowly, slowly. The eye had been hollowed indeed, and you would have to rise by climbing that flesh—if it was—Trey stared down and his stomach gibbered like his mind.

“If you wish to gain a gift by gambling your nature, partake of the rotless food they offer you. If you wish to stay forever, continue to eat.”

The Quarass’ voice was soft. She took the carpet up, forgoing the long ascent. Trey saw two dozen forms waiting near the top. They looked…Human. But his skin crawled. He felt hot and cold, chilled like he was having a fever. His head became light. And he felt himself pass through the spirals of the eye.

Bright light shone from within. Brighter than torchlight, but deeper than artificial light. The entryway was peach, not a perfect sterilized white, but colors altered by deeper, subtle shades. It looked like…stone.

The carpet halted. Trey saw a long tunnel, and then actual doors. He stared around. Peach changed, darkening and faltering, into a color like aged red and purple. It looked like—he closed his eyes.

“We walk here. Trey, take my hand.”

The Quarass made him stand. The ground was hard. Like stone. Trey opened his eyes. But he still beheld it for what it was.

Passages carved in something that did not rot. The narrow tunnel expanded, and they stood there, the people who lived in the Tombhome. Their clothes were long, concealing, their faces yet distant. Behind them rose buildings, places all carved out of the very substance that made the walls, the ceilings.

“Walk with me, Trey. It is no different than the Leviathan-Ships of Drowned Folk. They too live in ancient flesh.”

“It isn’t right. It isn’t…don’t make me come with you. Please.”

“Would you prefer to stay here?”

Faced with that—Trey couldn’t respond. The Quarass bent and the carpet vanished into her bag of holding.

“Come, Trey Atwood.”

They walked together, and he clung to the girl. Behind them walked Gazi, a shadow whose armored footsteps did not make any sound as she walked on the foreign ground. But the half-Gazer stood behind Trey, and he could continue forwards.

The tunnel was long to Trey, or they walked slowly at first. The delegation never moved. Before they reached the watchers, Trey heard a sound.

It was a quiet, humming song. The young man nearly stopped and fled, but the sound came from behind him. Gazi was quietly murmuring something, to the tune of a song.



“I met a traveller walking on a journey

We stopped where shadows met the sand,

He entered the tomb rotting and I held back

I saw him ever waving, but I never took his hand.”



The Quarass looked back. And the two dozen people of A’ctelios Salash shifted as Gazi’s song reached them. Trey heard laughter, and it was blessedly normal. Almost merry. He heard someone raise his voice in reply.



“We met two folk who stopped on a lonesome path

One entered full of willing, the other did not stay,

A single soul found comfort in our ancient home

He is one of many, and the other slipped away.”



The two parties met. And Trey saw two dozen people. Just people. Humans, like him.

It was such a shock. He had expected—well, he had expected abominations, twisted by the very thing that this city was built of. But here were people. Humans in every way. They wore long, leathery clothing, and the colors were all muted, all variations of dark red or browns or blacks, with purple hues or oranges—but never any colors like green or blue—and they looked…subterranean.

Not like the people of Ger, who wore freeing clothing. This was a pale group, who lived without sunlight. Not without light, for there was plenty of it in this place. Trey realized the whitish substance they’d walked on was responsible for the glow. Inside, the city of A’ctelios Salash was less bright, and mortal fire or magic lit things.

And the leaders of the city greeted them. The first was a man. He bowed, touching his finger and thumb just below his pale brown eyes.

“Quarass, I greet you and rejoice at your coming. The Dragonslayer of Ger lives again!”

“She lives again.”

The other murmured. They too bowed, copying the greeting. The Quarass inclined her head.

“Baosar Yeothrix. You have changed little since my last visit. I greet the people of A’ctelios Salash once more. I live again, and together we stand.”

“Together we stand. The Shield Kingdoms shall not fall.”

The two stepped forwards. Baosar was in his forties, perhaps. He had little grey, and pale he might be, but he was fairly hearty. He was so—so normal. Right up until he smiled and Trey saw points on his teeth.

His hand clasped the Quarass’ as Trey froze. Baosar turned and bowed.

“And I see one who knows the old visitor’s song.”

“I did not know A’ctelios sang a different one. I am Gazi Pathseeker.”

Baosar’s gaze sharpened and those behind him murmured once, repeating a name. Reim. But the leader of the Carven City only bowed as he offered a hand in greeting.

“We see the old choice differently, Lady Pathseeker. I greet you. Do you come on Reim’s business?”

Gazi did not take the proffered hand. She simply inclined her head, two of her four eyes on Baosar’s face.

“No. I escort the Quarass.”

“I see. And this one? A servant? Or a companion?”

He looked at Trey. And the young man shuddered because Baosar was so normal—but Trey could see the points of his teeth each time the man smiled. They were not like Gazi’s, which were her own, a carnivore’s designed mouth, but a Human’s teeth that had somehow shaped into points over time. It was unnatural.

“This child is a companion of mine. A servant for my purposes. He has never walked the Carven City, Baosar.”

The Quarass’ voice was cool. Trey found himself taking the man’s hand. They did not shake hands, but rather, squeeze, as the Quarass had told Trey. It was a familiar, warm grip. Trey let go as fast as possible and tried not to wipe his hand.

The leader of A’ctelios smiled.

“Ah, a stranger. He sees our home for what it is.”

“I—I greet you, Baosar of A’ctelios.”

Trey stammered. The man smiled. Then he turned to the Quarass.

“Are they all who come? What of your escort? Germina’s shadows?”

“Unneeded. Pathseeker is my guardian. You know Germina allies with Reim.”

Baosar angled his head. The people behind him were still. Trey felt eyes moving from him, to Gazi, to the Quarass.

“I have heard of its fall. But that is a matter to discuss. The Sapki of Qualvekkaras has arrived, as has the Keeper of Merreid. They await to discuss and meet. Shall we go, Quarass?”

“Yes.”

And that was that. Trey saw Baosar turn and gesture. The escort of the hooded, tall people fell in around them. Silently. Trey looked at Gazi, but she just nodded. And the Quarass walked beside Baosar.

And they entered further into the rotting kingdom of A’ctelios Salash.



—-



It was just a city. Trey tried to tell himself that. If you ignored the strange floor, the enclosed space, it was much like a city.

Walkways had been built inside the city. Homes lay in residential districts. There were shops—places to work, drink, eat—everything in another city.

But the color was off. And the entire world of A’ctelios was enclosed. First, Trey walked through the eye. It was a gateway, vast, domed, as he had seen from afar. Within, it seemed even larger. But it was only the exterior of the Carven City.

“In times long past, we settled in the eyes. But A’ctelios is far vaster than it was in the past, Trey Atwood. Now, we have built into the head, and we dig deeper with each year. We are halfway through the torso, and the appendages will be next.”

As they walked, one of the escorts spoke to Trey. He was tall, like the rest of A’ctelios’ folk, and his eyes were also pale. He too had pointed teeth, but he was a young man, lively, fascinated by the visitors. His name was Athal and seemed amused and also used to Trey’s nervousness.

“There is nothing to fear! I know what you must think, but this city is like any other. See—we pass into the head. Witness the first layer of A’ctelios! For you, it is where business is done with outsiders, and where your beloved Quarass will meet the other Shield Kingdom representatives!”

He thrust out his hand as they passed below a large archway, through another tunnel. And Trey gasped.

“Reim isn’t this big!”

The city of A’ctelios made you forget that it was inside something at first. It could have been night, but forever night, without stars. The city was set on multiple levels, and walkways and bridges made up the inner city.

Stone, too. It was almost a relief to see stone and wood mixed with the dark material. And it was a further relief to see an incredibly vast trading area, and normal people.

That was to say, outsiders. Athal explained as he stopped with Trey for a moment; Gazi and the Quarass had halted to the side, on a balcony from which stairs led up and down. Athal pointed.

“See? This is the main part of A’ctelios. The head. Isn’t it magnificent? It would be a wonder of the world on any list! Many have called it such.”

“It’s so…huge.”

The city was so vast that Trey couldn’t even really see the end of it. What had died here had been large beyond comprehension. So large a single eye could hold a small city’s population, as they built as much vertically and horizontally. And the head—

The city was dark. That was the thing. There was plenty of light on every floor. But no sunlight entered this place. So while it was bright as could be where magic light or lanterns shone, Trey still felt like the morning was just a memory.

“How many people live here, Athal?”

“Many people. We do not count. But if you are asking if they are all of A’ctelios—no. This is the Trade Quarter. See? Many of your folk stay here, temporarily.”

The young man pointed and grinned toothily. Trey saw more formal stone and wooden structures, and again to his relief, ordinary people. They did not wear the leathery cloth of A’ctelios. Stitch-folk, Garuda, Humans with normal teeth—were trading, mingling. They were indeed trading; almost all were investigating shops which sold magical items. Like the bazaar that the King of Destruction had visited, but permanent.

“See? Outlander shops and homes. A’ctelios, like Merreid, lets those who wish to sell and buy enter freely. It makes our city rich.”

Trey looked at Athal.

“What does A’ctelios sell?”

The young man smiled.

“Meat, although few will buy it. Mostly leather. We have as much of it as we care for, or bone. An arrow of Salash-bone will cut as sharply as steel, and there are other uses. Do you wish for a bone-flute? Or something else?”

“No, no, I—”

Trey raised his hands, and then saw another stall down below.

There was even food. Trey remembered the Quarass’ warning and stared, but the Garuda was hungrily eating some dried meat she bought from a vendor. Trey was about to ask Athal if she lived here—when he saw something on the sign of the vendor’s stall.



Outsider food for sale only. Bird meat, dried.



The ‘only’ part was underlined. Trey glanced at Athal.

“Outsider food?”

“Ah, of course you know the rules of A’ctelios? Well, your outsider rules. Come, come. I will show you.”

The young man made a dismissive gesture. He led Trey down a bit and into the street. Then he pointed.

“That is one of your outlander stalls, with food brought from the outside. But this is meat of A’ctelios. See?”

He pointed to a [Butcher]. It was like any meat-slicing counter Trey had seen. The person in charge had gloves, a knife, and cuts of meat on display. Although…it was without air-conditioning or any other method of preservation.

But what meat. Trey saw a carnivore’s dream on display. Glistening cuts of meat, some sliced thin, others literal blocks of flesh. Some hung in sausages, others were made into dried strips…

Trey stared. It looked like…meat. Just normal meat. It smelled like it too, and he could see a shop opposite this one—without an outlander sign—cooking said meat. It smelled good. His mouth watered. Athal was proud and smiling as he showed Trey.

“Look at the price.”

Trey did. He stared.

“Four coppers for—”

He pointed at enough thick cuts of meat for a family to have a steak dinner with. Back home that would have cost far, far more! Trey wasn’t perfect on the economics of this world, but meat was being priced at the same value as Yellats in Reim, or flour! Athal smirked at Trey’s expression, then he drifted closer to the shop selling the raw meat. The [Butcher] glanced up and smiled at Trey. Ignoring the teeth, they were so normal…

“No one starves in A’ctelios. And we cook well! I can show you the best tenderloins—or perhaps you enjoy a different cut? If you wish it—”

“No one will eat. They are guests, Athal. This is the Quarass’ servant.”

Suddenly, Baosar appeared besides Athal. He frowned disapprovingly. Trey jumped. He realized he’d left the others. Athal looked put out.

“Father, I was only—”

“The Quarass awaits her servant, Athal.”

The ruler emphasized ‘her servant’. And Trey saw Athal bow his head.

“Apologies.”

Baosar gestured and swept back up the stairs. When he was out of sight, Athal winked at Trey. He laughed and smiled and shrugged ruefully, as if to say ‘too bad’. Trey stared at him as they followed Baosar. He didn’t ask about the meat.

“Athal, does your city have uh, crime? A City Watch?”

The young man paused as he ushered Trey upwards. A pair of Garuda dressed in leather nodded to Athal. Trey—stared at them. They were of A’ctelios, he guessed. Athal nodded back and then gave Trey a strange look.

“Of course we have crime. And incidents—quarrels, and so on. We do not have your Watch, but we do have appointed peacekeepers. What must you think of our city, Trey Atwood?”

“I don’t know. I only know a bit.”

“Your Quarass did not tell you much of our Shield City?”

“Well, I know it was mighty. But no—not much. I thought, well…”

Trey trailed off awkwardly. Athal’s perplexed stare was bothering him.

“Have you lived here all your life?”

“Of course. And I will die here. We go up this way, across the bridge.”

The bridge had guardrails, but it was long and arched. The…not-stone it was made of must have been incredibly strong. Perhaps it was bone. Trey glanced at Athal.

“You never wanted to leave? There’s a world out there.”

“Why would I want to see it? I have all I want here, Trey Atwood. Beautiful girls, sights, and you outlanders bring me all I want. The outside is dangerous, isn’t it? Sometimes our guardians at the eyes fight with monsters. And there are wars. That Lady Pathseeker, she is of the King of Destruction, is she not? Once his armies marched past A’ctelios, before I was born.”

“Yes, but—”

Trey really didn’t know what to say. Athal looked so content. He didn’t even pause when he claimed there was nothing for him outside. Trey decided to fish around in his pockets instead. He pulled out his iPhone; there was too much to see all at once and Teres needed to see this…place. He didn’t know if he should take a picture of the outside, though.

“What is that?”

Fascinated, Athal stopped again on the walkway. Ahead of them, Trey saw a pair of giggling children poke out their heads and stare at the outsider. There were even children here. Perhaps…?

No. Trey lamely tried to explain as he took a slow video of the street and the [Butcher] below, Athal, the city stretching out into the distance…

“This is a uh, recording device. Magical.”

“Ah. Like the scrying orbs? They are in high demand. Several [Merchants] have come through selling them in the last two weeks. But of course, this entertainment is worth it! If only it was not so pricey! Even now, scrying devices cost too much, eh?”

Athal was fascinated, but too polite to interrupt as Trey did a slow circle. He had to hurry Trey along to catch up with the others. Trey kept recording as he walked with Athal.

“So does A’ctelios have any problems? I mean, Reim has a food shortage and water problem at times…”

“We have an issue with disease. There are so many, that sometimes we grow sick. But that is the worst of it. Ah—hold on. You distract me so much we go the wrong way! We’ll take a shortcut. Down this street.”

Athal pointed. The two young men hurried through a residential district. Trey saw children running about, playing, insulting each other—they instantly surrounded Trey and his fascinating iPhone, but Athal kept them back.

“Scatter! Shoo! Trey Atwood, I would hold onto that artifact. Little children would pry it away in an instant and even my father would have trouble finding it.”

“Right, sorry.”

Trey apologized and put away the iPhone, in his bag of holding. They passed by a closed pair of windows and Trey heard a baby crying. It was a high-pitched, warbling wail.

Not a baby crying. There was a curious inflection in the voice. A—

Athal stared at the shutters and pushed at Trey hurriedly.

“Move, move. I should not have taken you here. Move, please.”

Trey hurried. His skin crawled again. When they were in a main street, he turned back.

“What was—”

“Nothing. Do not tell my father I took you there, please. I will be in a lot of trouble.”

The other young man was pale, as if he’d done something wrong. Trey stared backwards.

“That baby sounded—”

“It was born with illness. Do not ask—the shapers will fix it. Please, Trey Atwood. I ask you not to repeat what you heard.”

Trey nodded slowly. Every second he relaxed, this city reminded him—perhaps because he knew what it was. Would another visitor have known? Perhaps. Perhaps not. A’ctelios was fine, until you saw the cracks.

It occurred to Trey, then, that he had not seen a single fly around the [Butcher]’s meat shop. Not one. Trey paused, but Athal was hurrying him on.

“We go to the meeting spot! It is a privilege for you, of course. Outsiders do not travel below the first layer. Come, this way!”

He led Trey down the main road. And he and Trey passed through a checkpoint of sorts. Warriors armed in bone armor and with bone weapons let them pass, along with the other natives of the city, but no other outsider remained after that.

“Peacekeepers. Come, come. We’ll be late and my father will send me below for cutting for an entire cycle if we’re too late!”

The young man practically jogged with Trey. They were moving so fast to catch up with the Quarass and the others that they nearly smacked into a group of—things.

“Disaa! Pakeil! Back up, Trey Atwood!”

Athal exclaimed. Trey saw a group of four huge—beasts. He instantly took out his iPhone.

“What the hell—”

They barked, straining at the harnesses as Trey jumped back, behind Athal. But the word was all wrong for them. The sound was not ‘bark’. It was…a whuffing, moaning call. Warbling. Trey saw them turning their heads towards him. The group of men forcing them onwards beat at them with long-handled whips with multiple tails and the pakeil subsided.

They were like dogs in that they were quadrupeds. But again, it was wrong to call them anything like that. They were hunched, misshapen, fleshy folds running along what Trey assumed was a buried head, but he couldn’t see amid all the—he fought back a wave of revulsion.

They made that sound again, and one of them strained at Trey. It was bound by a leather harness, and the owner, or master, beat at it until it made a sound and subsided.

“Apologies, outsider! They are restless! Move along, quickly!”

“Athal, what is—”

“Move, move. They are pakeil. Burden-beasts, Trey. Like your horses, but we do not ride them! Very strong. These ones are going below, to help with the cutting and lifting.”

“But what—”

Trey saw the animals go wild as he tried to take an image of them. Athal didn’t mind that, but the annoyed masters of the animals made him hurry Trey off. The young man stared at the animals. They looked like exactly what he expected from this place. But they weren’t killing anyone. They were in fact, docile after being disciplined. Still—

His skin was crawling when he caught up to the Quarass. She, Baosar, and Gazi and the others had halted in front of a large building when Athal and Trey caught up. Baosar glared at his son. The Quarass glared at Trey.

“We did not come here to sightsee. Do not fall behind, Trey Atwood.”

“I’m sorry.”

Trey bowed his head. He hadn’t wanted to see A’ctelios. No, that was a lie. He had wanted to see it, but only to see the horror and then flee it. But the horror wasn’t there. It was hinted at, but this was no eldritch place of dark ritual. It was just a city. Trey had seen a man picking his nose industriously and it was hard to conflate that with summoning horrors from another plane.

The people of A’ctelios were people. But there was a secret here. Trey was glad to fall in behind the Quarass and Gazi. He knew the half-Gazer had been watching him, so he’d never felt too afraid. But he was conscious of the cracks in the pleasant reality.

He was standing inside of it. But Trey found his mind hurrying away from that reality. Believe the walls were just painted. They were cut or shaped smooth, after all, like stone. Believe Athal’s sharp-toothed grin and guilty look as he evaded his father’s questions was just another bloke, deep down.

Believe the pakeil were normal animals, just differently formed. Trey believed as strongly as he could. It was that or panic. Later, he would ask the Quarass. When he was far from the Carven City as possible. That was wisdom.

Trey’s glimpse of the Carven City ended there. He entered the tall, oblong building and found normality once again waiting inside. Baosar, after apologizing for his wayward son, led the party to the reception.

“We will dine and discuss, Quarass. After you.”

He threw open the doors and let the others enter first. It was a private dining room, intimate, but with a table long enough for all the other guests. And to Trey’s relief, he saw there were as many visitors from the other Shield Kingdoms as people of A’ctelios.

“The Quarass of Germina, may she live forever! We gather now, the four Shield Kingdoms! Let those who accompany the protectors of Chandrar await!”

Baosar announced as he swept into the room. Every eye fell on the Quarass. She stood there, a moment, and Trey beheld a small gathering.

It was no throne room in Reim, with the King of Destruction and all his vassals. This was, Trey realized, a rather informal gathering of all four nations. No one blew trumpets, and but for Baosar’s speech, there was no loud proclamation. The ruler of A’ctelios simply walked with the Quarass over to the other two rulers who had been waiting by the side. Trey looked at Gazi. She paused, and Athal came over.

“Eat! Drink! While father and your beloved Quarass discuss, Trey Atwood, we must linger. Come! The table has food—even outlander food!”

“Oh, no, I’m fine—”

Trey began to refuse, but the other A’ctelios folk dragged him over. Gazi followed quietly, and Trey found himself sitting at a table strewn with food. Mostly meat. There was some food he thought was normal—grapes, pastries—but true to the Quarass’ promise, he refused even drinks Athal offered. And as he sat, the other delegations sat or spoke and mingled, waiting for the four rulers to finish.

One delegation was of Garuda. Most were bodyguards, muscular, male Garuda with swords or spears who refused to chatter with the other delegations. They too did not eat, but watched their leader with every moment.

Their ruler, the Sapki, was a female Garuda, young, in her late twenties. Her feathers were white, but for gold on the tips, as Trey had seen in the illusion.

“Sapki Mekhita, I greet you once more. I am the Quarass, who lives again.”

The Quarass greeted the Sapki first. The Garuda ruler did the Germina greeting of forefinger and thumb, and the Quarass raised both arms in an ‘x’ just above her chest, two fingers extended, as she bowed. The Sapki murmured her greetings and the Quarass turned.

“Keeper Ulree. Once more we meet. I am the Quarass once more.”

The second ruler and his delegation were Human. The Keeper Ulree was a man. Human, but with colored hair. Artificially colored; bright yellow ran into his natural black hair and the man dressed more fashionably than any of the other rulers. He was a lively man, who bowed over the Quarass and exclaimed.

“Quarass! What a young body you have taken! Do you truly mean to reign a century this time! Ah, but we heard of your last incarnation’s death. Come, come. Baosar, Mekhita, we all have little time for long discussions. My djinni must bear me back north tonight and I wish to make the most of the conversation!”

That was all Trey heard. The Keeper Ulree sounded friendly, and his delegation was chatting noisily. Not eating either, of course. Athal introduced Trey to a pair of well-dressed young people their age—Trey understood they were relatives of the Keeper.

“What are we doing, Athal? Hello, I’m Trey.”

“Well met, Trey! Are you of the Quarass’ people? I mean—may she live forever! I am Beshaid. I came with Keeper Ulree—I am his second-nephew by way of his brother, but this is my first meeting of the Shield Kingdoms. I was told to eat nothing, but am I simply dressing on this delegation?”

One of the other young men from Merreid looked as confused as Trey. Athal was not.

“This is not a royal banquet, or some fancy affair! The Shield Kingdoms are informal; I have seen this happen once before! We sit and converse. We need not mingle, but it is enjoyable, yes?”

He laughed. Gazi nodded by Trey’s side. Her arms were folded, her eyes moving in all directions. She murmured to Trey as Athal tried to press Beshaid with wine. It seemed to be a game among A’ctelios’ people to get their guests to try something, even ‘outlander food’.

“Our presence is simply to protect and wait, Trey. Wait for the Quarass to finish her tasks. Do not eat.”

“Even the wine? Are you sure the meat’s bad, Gazi?”

It looked really, really good. And it smelled good too. That was the disconcerting thing. Trey wasn’t going to try it, but he did wonder. That was a steak! It looked like a steak, Athal was eating it like a steak in front of the others, taunting some of the other young Garuda and Humans—Gazi nodded.

“You were warned. Don’t err.”

“But aren’t you curious? I’m not trying, but don’t you want to know what it’s like? Just a bit?”

Trey knew, but a [Chef] had clearly prepared this food because it was appetizing and it was nearly lunch. His mouth watered. Gazi looked at him with two of her eyes.

“Not at all. Because I can see what it was made of.”

Trey looked at Gazi’s eyes, and then the ravenous feasters from A’ctelios. He suddenly lost all appetite.

The wait was long for the Quarass. Trey could see the four rulers greeting each other, but rather to his disappointment, he wasn’t allowed to go near or hear that august meeting. He supposed it was silly to assume he’d get to hear what they were saying, but he was a bit let-down. In the meantime, Athal and some of the other younger folk mingled and chatted.

“Trey Atwood, tell us of Germina. How fares it after the King of Destruction conquered?”

Beshaid nodded at Trey, hungry for gossip if he couldn’t have any food. Trey found himself in a small knot of similarly-aged people; the older delegates kept to their own groups or were more recumbent, or simply refused all hospitality like Gazi, but youth bridged the four nation’s divide. A trio of Garuda and four others from Merreid joined six from A’ctelios, including Athal.

“Well, uh, Germina’s well. The Quarass lives again, so all is well. Until that point, there was unrest—”

Trey tried to lie, and to his relief, Beshaid and most of the others rolled their eyes.

“You and your Quarass! I mean—may she live forever, but tell us something! Something interesting! Did you see the King of Destruction? Is that really Gazi the Omniscient here?”

“Yes, and yes—”

Trey found himself besieged by wide-eyed questions. No one dared approach Gazi, but everyone wanted to know what she was like, or the King of Destruction. Trey gave evasive answers, and the others were happy just to hear of Flos’ public exploits.

In time, the other entourages began to mingle as well. The Garuda bodyguards and Gazi still refused to talk, but the others met and mingled, gossiping. Trey feared he’d be lost and reveal himself, but the others were only too happy to gossip about the battle at Pallass and the other broadcasts, like Daquin, which was a relief.

“Scrying orbs. It is the fashion the world over! It is so entertaining! I wish I had one—”

“They say there will be a permanent—broadcast? Yes, broadcast from Wistram. Imagine!”

Trey could and did imagine. He nearly took a cup of water from Athal, then glared at the young man. As Trey went to put it back on the banquet table, he saw the Quarass and the other rulers.

They paused where Trey was standing, and he heard them talking.

“…thought you might be influenced by the last Quarass. Forgive our hesitance.”

“Your memories are too short. You know that I am eternal. My predecessor was a fool, that I admit. But I was chosen of Ger. I am not she, and I regret the path she took Germina down.”

The Quarass’ voice was sharp, even with the other rulers. The Keeper shrugged and Trey, pretending to inspect the goblets, saw the Sapki Mekhita dip her head.

“I met the previous Quarass, but only for the last four years of her life. I am new to my role. I hope we will be allies.”

She smiled shyly and Baosar agreed.

“It is good to meet a reasonable Quarass again. The last one was not. But then, a kinkiller much less a matricide was a poor Quarass. You have more will than she, at least.”

The Quarass only nodded slowly, not seeming to take offense.

“I have much to mend and repair, but I trust I will prove myself again with deed. It was good I died before more could be ruined.”

The other rulers nodded. They were reserved, at first. And Trey began to understand why—an insight from seeing the Quarass with Fetohep.

They did not know this Quarass. They knew the Quarass, but each one differed. Now that they had an impression of this Quarass, they seemed relieved. Trey did have to wonder what the last one was like. Vindictive, he’d been told and apparently, prone to decisions based in fury or spite rather than cool-headed logic like the one he knew.

“Well then, Quarass, let us speak of unpleasant things. Reim and Germina. Are your nations allied, or is that simply the pretense of the King of Destruction?”

Keeper Ulree swept his hand towards Gazi. Trey edged sideways, pretending to really be thinking about some cheese. Would that make him…? Absolutely no way he was eating it.

The Quarass sighed.

“I speak for the King of Destruction, and I will intercede on his behalf with you all. But I am not his subject. Still, Germina was felled by him and I am an ally so that the Shield Kingdom might remain. I came here with his protection; let that be proof that Germina is not an expendable pawn, at least.”

“By his will or your own? What did he offer Germina? Quarass, I mean no disrespect in this, but the King of Destruction brings…destruction. If you must support him, you must, but tell us in this secure place if you believe he is truly worth allowing to rise once more. I have had many discussions about him, and I fear his actions.”

The Sapki was unhappy. The Quarass paused, and Keeper Ulree rubbed his hands together.

“No force could compel the Quarass here. So. Ger backs Reim? For what reason, unless it is simply naked ambition?”

The Quarass sniffed. She glanced at Trey but gave no sign she’d seen him. She did raise her voice a tiny bit, though.

“I will be a Quarass greater than any predecessor in a thousand years. My incarnation is weak of magic and body, but she has time. I will bring Germina to glory, and what better way than with a [King] who could unite Chandrar twice?”

“And if she falls with the King of Destruction?”

Baosar’s eyes narrowed. He was sharpest of the other three, Trey thought to himself. The Quarass turned her head.

“Germina need not fall with Reim, only rise with it. Whether he succeeds or fails, I shall use the King of Destruction to make Germina stronger. I shall surpass my previous incarnations.”

Her bold speech only made Baosar smile. He was oldest of the other three. Trey had realized that too. He and Ulree seemed of age, but Ulree was treating Baosar like a superior—the Quarass being eldest of all.

“So say all Quarasses. But what can she offer A’ctelios now? Why should we ignore the King of Destruction? That is costly, politically. If we resist for our pact with Ger, what will Reim bring us other than servitude once more? Why would a continent under Flos Reimarch be better than now?”

The Quarass paused a moment, and replied swiftly.

“A’ctelios may never fall to siege or war. But it may well die but for medicine. Is that not so?”

The ruler grimaced.

“It is so, Quarass. But trade is plentiful.”

“I say to you then, Baosar, Keeper, Sapki—do not make Reim your enemy and trade shall flow, even if the King of Destruction rises higher. For I am his ally, and while I am, he will remember the value of the Shield Kingdoms.”

“But what if he brings chaos? What if other nations see our neutrality as aid to the enemy? Germina already throws our nations into question.”

The Sapki’s wing-arms flutters as she spoke, nervously. Ulree laughed.

“Are we not Shield Kingdoms? But for Germina, all our nations are difficult to invade. Still—this seems to favor Germina and Reim. Do you truly counsel this in our best interests, Quarass?”

He looked at the Quarass with an easy smile. She nodded without missing a beat.

“Neutrality. The Empire of Sands is a greater threat to my mind. I am the Quarass; I would not endanger the Shield Kingdoms with false oaths.”

“Unless the current Quarass has incarnated into one of true corruption or weakness of will.”

Baosar murmured. The small Quarass’ head snapped around. Her brow darkened.

“Do you believe that?”

“Peace, Quarass. I only suggest it.”

The ruler of A’ctelios Salash bowed slightly. The Sapki ruffled her feathers. She walked past the other three and they followed.

“I do not like it. But if you say so, Quarass—can you assure us? An oath by truth spell—”

“Truth spells are evadable. You must trust my memory and will.”

“But the last Quarass—”

“Let me prove it then by my deed! I only ask patience—”

The others broke off, drifting across the room as the restless Sapki carried them elsewhere. Trey slid across the floor and saw Beshaid and some others doing the same. The young man winked at Trey.

“You want to hear too?”

Trey blushed, but the two hurried over, pretending to be talking. Trey caught the end of the conversation. Keeper Ulree was nodding.

“We abide, Quarass. Let Germina rise or fall with little Reim. Better to have one whisper in the King of Destruction’s ear lest he succeed. But only one, so that three of the Shield Kingdoms might disavow him should he fail.”

He turned. Trey and Beshaid instantly whirled around. The Keeper paused, and then his voice clearly spoke from behind them.

“And I think our escorts tire of their mingling. Let us remain here and all the other young leave.”

His words hit Trey like a physical prod in the back. The two young men, ashamed, hurried over to the banquet, along with the other eavesdroppers. Beshaid looked embarrassed.

“So much for the dignity of Merreid! I will not hear the end of this!”

“Neither will I. Were you expecting this outcome?”

“Ah, well, the Keeper said as much. It is rare the Shield Kingdoms take huge action themselves. But rumors such as these are worth much for small people like we, eh?”

Beshaid grinned at Trey. The young man ducked his head. He could have probably asked the Quarass all of it later. Or Gazi. She was sitting at the table. But Trey was fairly certain she was reading lips. And he was certain the Quarass knew that. Perhaps this entire conversation was pointless.

But that was not the reason they’d come here. Not the whole reason.

And that was it. The meeting took another two hours, but Trey thought it was more about gossip and the other rulers appraising the Quarass than any important decisions. He spent the rest of that time showing the other guests his sand-golems, politely refusing anything to eat, and asking questions about the other Shield Kingdoms.

“Qualvekkaras, it is not like A’ctelios. Each Shield Kingdom hosts every four years when the rulers meet—or earlier if one asks it. Should you have the privilege of coming to Qualvekkaras you will see our heights. A’ctelios Salash is…well enough.”

One of the Garuda bodyguards stiffly spoke near at the end of the gathering, the only time he’d said a word. Trey nodded.

“I hope to.”

“Good. The Sapki has flown long to meet the new Quarass. It is good she is pleased, for the journey is worthwhile. If Germina is an ally in the future, let us meet and share clear skies.”

That was all he said. He stood instantly when his Sapki left the gathering of rulers. Trey turned back, and then realized all four were breaking up. The Keeper swept towards the folk of Merreid—Baosar motioned and the people A’ctelios began to clear the tables of food.

“I am finished.”

The Quarass walked over to Gazi and Trey. The half-Gazer stood smoothly. Trey cricked his back and neck.

“So soon?”

He meant it as a joke, but he’d actually expected the meeting to take all day, behind closed doors with secret words and whatnot. But the Quarass just shook her head.

“We discussed most of what was needed quickly. The rest is unneeded. I have made my impression, and now we go. Should we waste each other’s time?”

“No, but—”

Trey shrugged. The Quarass sighed.

“We did not convene for any reason but for me to convince the Shield Kingdoms of what they had already set upon, and for me to present myself. If we convene for a more serious decision, it will be of note. Now, we return. This way.”

She led the other two apart as the other delegations began to depart. The Sapki and the Keeper both bade farewell to the Quarass, but Trey noticed neither promised an alliance. As they’d said, they were just going to watch for now.

“Fair-weather friends.”

The Quarass shrugged. She seemed contented by the results.

“The Shield Kingdoms of Chandrar are ancient. They must be political, to keep from being destroyed. I expected no more or less.”

“So, we’re going?”

Trey itched to be gone of A’ctelios. It was becoming too normal to him, and he had to remind himself of what it was. The Quarass looked at him.

“Not yet. Baosar.”

She nodded as the man swept back towards her. He gave a pointed smile.

“Ah, Quarass. I have summoned our finest expert which you requested. He awaits in a private room. Athal will show you the way.”

It was such a casual thing. The Quarass nodded and Trey nodded too, suppressing the leap in his chest. Gazi’s face was blank—she even looked bored as she nodded. And Athal led them to the private room with vague interest and nothing more.

“He awaits inside, Quarass. Tell me but when you are finished and I will take you elsewhere.”

He mouthed at Trey. And don’t take too long, please! The Quarass ignored him and the wink, and walked into the room. Gazi was next, and Trey followed.



—-



A man in a leather robe sat in a chair in the room, at a desk carved of bone. Trey’s first impression of him was of a rather hunched form—until he saw the man straighten. And then he gasped.

A wrinkled face and huge eyes stared at him. Unnaturally large eyes—larger than an eye should be. The man’s arms were long, sinewy. And his flesh was old.

He had hair, but it was long and tangled. The man looked dirty, and he smelled like the [Butcher]’s shop. But he was hale of body, even if his skin betrayed his age.

Unnaturally hale, in fact. As he stood and bowed, he had a fluidness of motion that Trey didn’t expect. He reminded Trey of Flos Reimarch, in fact.

The King of Destruction was in his forties, past his physical prime, but he had not one grey hair. He refused to let age touch him, in fact. He looked like he was a decade younger and he was in better shape than Trey and Teres combined.

In the same way, this man was probably in his eighties, but while he had grey hair and wrinkled skin, he had not a single liver spot, and his head was full of hair, not prone to balding. And his physique! It wasn’t that he had muscle. In fact, he wasn’t nearly as muscular as Flos. But he didn’t move with any hint of pain or wear on his body.

That was the unnatural bit. But as soon as the man spoke, it all became clear to Trey.

“Quarass, I greet you. Baosar informed me I was needed. My name is Sainath. I am a [Fleshchosen Formshaper].”

The words echoed in the small room. Trey instantly looked around for the Quarass. This was her plan? A—[Formshaper]?

He saw the Quarass incline her head.

“Greetings to you, Sainath. I have an ailment I am told you may fix. First, however—Trey Atwood, stop gawping. You are giving offense.”

The Quarass pointed a finger. Trey jumped as she addressed him directly. Sainath laughed.

“I take none, Quarass. And if it pleases you, I will answer any questions this young man clearly has.”

“Very well. Gazi, you must take off your armor. It will interfere with Sainath’s magic.”

Sainath’s eyes darted to Gazi. The half-Gazer stared at the Quarass. Slowly, she nodded and turned her back. She began to adjust parts of her armor, removing her gauntlets first as Sainath turned to Trey.

“Have you never seen a [Formshaper], Trey Atwood?”

“No. What are you—I mean, I’m terribly sorry. But what was your class?”

The old man smiled.

“All of us are fleshchosen. But [Formshaper] is my class. I am a—well, I suppose the crude word for it is [Flesh Mage].”

The word echoed in the room. Trey shuddered.

‘It was born with illness. Do not ask—the shapers will fix it.’

Athal’s words. Trey found another piece of the puzzle and stared. The Quarass’ voice was calm.

“It is a rarer class, not often practiced. But the shapers of A’ctelios Salash are well-known. Among some. They move flesh at will, to heal or…change. It is a dangerous process, however, and [Healers] are far more trusted. More efficient. But a [Formshaper] may do what no potion can, or at least, more easily.”

She nodded at Sainath and he bowed.

“Your words praise me, Quarass. This humble [Formshaper] will do what he can to aid the Dragonslayer of Ger.”

Trey glanced at Gazi. Then at the Quarass.

“His Majesty didn’t think of this?”

“No. I did.”

The Quarass turned to stared at Gazi. The half-Gazer had clothes on underneath her armor, and she had shed half of the pieces already. Sainath glanced at her, and then at Trey.

“Your Quarass is right, young man. I work with living bodies like [Necromancers] work with the dead. Skin and muscle are my projects. I can alter form and improve it—but my specialty is restoring. Healing.”

Trey nodded. He hesitated as Gazi took off her greaves.

“What does fleshchosen mean? Does it give you some aspect in your class?”

Sainath laughed. The Quarass’ eyes flickered and she shook her head slightly. So did the [Formshaper].

“It is what all those who are part of A’ctelios are granted, young man. And as for what it gives—comfort.”

He smiled. Trey opened his mouth, but the Quarass slashed with one hand behind Sainath’s head. He closed it.

“Well, Quarass, who am I seeing to? And how many? I must tell you I am not able to heal all ailments. Indeed, bone eludes me. Better to find a [Necromancer] for that.”

“I am aware. Your patient is not me, or him. But her.”

“Lady Pathseeker.”

Sainath turned smoothly to Gazi. Outside of her armor, she was slimmer, shorter. She seemed naked to Trey without her sword. Gazi glanced at the Quarass. And Trey looked at her closed eye.

Sometimes, great events took place by chance. Other times, they were by design. Sometimes, what everyone thought was the most important thing was in fact, a ruse.

The Quarass’ meeting with the other Shield Kingdoms. The King of Destruction at Jecrass. All of it was fake. Trey knew it, but he hadn’t known exactly why they had come. Now he did, and he saw the simplicity of it all.

For this, Flos Reimarch had given Gazi and Trey to the Quarass on her journey. For this, he had marched an army north, to distract the world’s eyes. For other reasons too, like the King of Destruction wanting a new horse, to level his army, so the Quarass could meet the others.

But this was a reason beyond all others. Gazi slowly sat in front of Sainath.

“My eye is wounded, [Formshaper]. I was told you might be able to heal it.”

“Ah.”

The old man sighed. His body shifted as he leaned forwards.

“I thought as much. Lady Pathseeker, is it? But I admit—I wondered. Rumors reach even A’ctelios Salash. But few think of my class. And I confess—I am not as skilled as some of my predecessors.”

He gestured at his body.

“My body is without flaw, but I keep my old skin to remind myself of what I am. Imperfect. So I warn you, Lady Pathseeker, I will do all in my power to aid you. But it may not be enough, and if I err—”

He paused, waiting. Gazi’s eyes locked on him, flickered to the Quarass. One looked at Trey.

“I am prepared to take that risk, [Formshaper].”

He nodded.

“Then, Lady Pathseeker, open your eye and show me your injury.”

Gazi paused. Trey, Sainath, even the Quarass edged around the table to see. Slowly, the half-Gazer opened her main eyelid, her huge central eye that Trey had never seen. He stared

And gasped.

“Gazi!”

The eyeball moved. Trey saw a dark pupil contract, slowly. Beautifully; her eye was many times his size. He saw the cornea move—and then saw the wound.

“Ah. Lady Pathseeker, you have been sorely wounded.”

Sainath’s sigh was different. He inspected the eye as it swung back towards him. He slowly bent forwards and Trey saw.

Gazi’s main eye was damaged. Trey had known it, had seen the weeping eyelid in the first few days when Gazi had returned—but he had never seen her eye itself. Gazi had opened it only once, to show Flos. She had kept it closed the rest of the time. Been crippled by its absence.

For she was Gazi the Omniscient, and her lesser four eyes were but a shadow of her main one. Now, Trey saw.

Gazi’s large, central eye was healed. It was—the eye was not deflated, or torn, or any of the things Trey had imagined. Even an eye could recover, it seemed. The whites were clear, in fact there were no red blood vessels in her eye, and it was able to rotate at will in her socket.

But the damage had come along the iris, the colored section of her eye. The color of Gazi’s main eye was yellow, but of a depth and scope even the Quarass’ eyes lacked.

Deep yellow in the center, but changing to blue and green and darker reds along the entire circumference. It was not one color, or even one pattern. It glowed, and the colors seemed to shift subtly as Trey watched. It should have been a perfect circle, followed by a black mote of a pupil in the center.

But it was not. Part of Gazi’s iris had—bled. A cracked line along the center of it indicated the old wound, and it had spilled out into the whites of her eyes. A scratch ran along her eye, and it had ruined—beauty.

Trey stared at Gazi and his heart hurt. Her eye was beautiful, but damaged. The Quarass simply nodded and stood back.

“Can you see, Lady Pathseeker?”

“Yes.”

Gazi’s voice was low, almost without emotion. But look into her eye, see her clenched hands. Trey dared not speak as Sainath leaned forwards. Gazi’s eye moved slightly—then held still.

“I can see with it. Not perfectly, but I see. I dare not pour magic through my eye.”

She meant use the powers she had been born with, that of Gazers. Sainath nodded.

“I see, I see. Gazer eyes must be perfect, or the magic will warp. Damage the eye further. You were wise to wait. Lady Pathseeker—I must touch your eye. If you feel any discomfort tell me. But—”

“Do it.”

Slowly, gently, the man moved his hands forwards. He was rather unclean, but his hands were spotless, Trey was relieved to say. Gazi’s eye shivered as he gently touched a finger to it. Trey blinked for Gazi.

“Hm. Yes. I feel exactly the damage. Yes.”

Sainath put his hands on the side of Gazi’s central eye, closing his own eyes. Like hers, they were larger than normal. Had he changed himself to be like that? Gazi waited. The Quarass spoke slowly.

“Can it be restored? Money is no object.”

The [Formshaper] paused. He chewed on one lip, inspecting Gazi’s wound. Then he turned to face the child-ruler.

“Money is not my issue, Quarass of Germina. I think—yes, I think it can be done.”

Trey exhaled in a rush. Gazi blinked and she rubbed at her own eye as Sainath stepped back.

“You can?”

Sainath turned to Gazi.

“It is a small amount of damage. You must have treated it with a potion?”

“No. My eye responds poorly to magic. I feared it might warp my healing. It was naturally.”

“Wise, wise. And the injury—it does not run deep. Not into what lies behind your eye. It was not magical either, which is what I feared. What caused it, may I ask, Lady Pathseeker?”

“Someone poked a finger into my eye.”

“Ah.”

The Quarass and Sainath paused. Both looked surprised. Trey just winced. Sainath wasted no time, though.

“I can perform the repair now. If you are willing?”

“Do you not need anything else? Any tools? Preparations? This must be done with utmost care.”

The Quarass’ voice was sharp. Sainath shook his head.

“Lady Pathseeker’s eye is whole, Quarass. All that need be done is move what was altered into the right places. It will not take long. Nor will it be as dangerous. But I will need to concentrate. Lady Gazi, I will touch your eye. Please do not move it at all, or blink, or use any magic.”

“Of course.”

Sainath nodded. Trey and the Quarass backed away. And Sainath placed his hands on Gazi’s eye when she told him she was ready.

And he moved magic.



—-



To Trey, the process was like watching someone perform surgery with a needle the size of a thread. He could see magic, thanks to Gazi’s tutoring, but he had never witnessed such fine control as he saw Sainath doing with Gazi’s eye. An almost imperceptible wisp of magic was entering Gazi’s eye—itself glowing in Trey’s sight with power. He couldn’t even grasp what Sainath was doing, but he assumed it was slowly moving the contents of her eye.

“He does it well. With the skill of previous [Formshapers].”

“You honor me, Quarass.”

The little ruler watched as Trey waited in a corner. Gazi held perfectly still, unmoving, not even speaking. The Quarass went on.

“Do you change other bodies, [Formshaper]? You claim you are not skilled, but you stand well among your peers.”

“Honor, Quarass. I have worked all my life as a shaper. Of course, I tend to the people of A’ctelios Salash, but I have repaired. Seldom altered. That is…a dangerous road.”

“Indeed. I am glad the shapers of A’ctelios remember. Betimes they forget.”

“Quarass. Shouldn’t you let him work in peace?”

Trey nearly begged the girl to stop distracting Sainath. The Quarass turned towards him.

“Sainath has control over his magic, Trey. Speaking will not impede him. Is that not so, Sainath?”

“No, Quarass. I will ask for silence if it is needed.”

Trey still didn’t like it. He wanted to pace, or say something to Gazi, but he was afraid to so much as breathe. He knew what this meant to her.

The Quarass had no such compunctions. She eyed Sainath’s back.

“[Formshaper]. Can you heal more than simply an eye? What of limbs? Surely that would make you prized elsewhere. Or does A’ctelios call you?”

Sainath’s voice was light, amused.

“I will never leave my home, Quarass. I doubt any shaper would, and few ever come to apprentice here that leave over our long history. Yes, I am even able to reattach a limb—if it is not rotted beyond belief. I have fixed holes or imperfect alignments in the body that are invisible from the exterior. I may even craft new limbs…although that is only for the people of A’ctelios. For I need material to work with.”

Trey shivered. He could only imagine. The Quarass was nodding.

“Still, you may close a wound without using raw material?”

“A simple task, Quarass. Closing a wound is just moving flesh. To create, I must take or…harvest what is needed elsewhere.”

“Of course. Then I am satisfied. Well, I shall continue fulfilling my obligations. Trey Atwood.”

She turned to him. He jumped.

“Yes? Quarass?”

“Trey, make a Golem for me. There. Out of sand.”

She pointed at the floor just ahead of them. Trey hesitated.

“Now? Can’t it wait for—”

“Now.”

The Quarass glared. Trey still hesitated. Sainath didn’t move, but he spoke up.

“So long as the sand goes nowhere near Lady Pathseeker or I, young man, cast your magic.”

Trey did so, as carefully as could be. A mini-Gazi, eye and all, rose from the ground as he poured a tiny bit of sand out of his bag of holding. It glared up at the Quarass. She glared back.

“Larger. At least to my waist. Yes.”

The sand-Gazi rose higher. The Quarass studied it, and then walked around it. She inspected Trey, and then glanced at Sainath.

“Good. Healing potions also work, but it would not do to err. Trey, stand here. Just above the golem.”

“To do what?”

Trey reluctantly shuffled in front of the golem. He made the little Gazi frown and cross her arms. He thought the real Gazi smiled for a second. The Quarass was not smiling. She reached up, pushed Trey’s head back a bit.

“To be in the right place. Thank you. Siv.”

She brushed her left hand across Trey’s throat. He heard the word, saw a tiny bit of magic—

And felt his throat open up. Trey felt blood spilling from his cut throat. He stared at Gazi. Then he began to choke.

“Quarass.”

Gazi froze. Sainath’s hands froze too. Both turned to look at the Quarass, but they were frozen together. Trey raised his hands. Blood was running down his clothes, onto the golem. It was coming from his throat.

It was slashed open. The Quarass flicked one finger. Trey saw a short, glowing blade of light protruding from one of her magical rings.

“This is a ring-blade. Used by the [Assassins] of Germina. Flos Reimarch has forbidden the use of child-assassins, but adults may use the ring just as well. It is difficult to avoid or predict at low-levels, and as you can see—sharp.”

She gestured at Trey. He sank to his knees. Blood was pouring from his throat.

He was clutching at the gaping wound, trying to stop—

The little girl kicked away Trey’s hands from his belt as he reached for a potion. She yanked his arm up—blood ran onto the frozen Golem, the floor.

“Quarass.”

Gazi had not moved as the [Fleshshaper] held his fingers to her eye. But her other four eyes were staring at the Quarass. The little ruler ignored her.

“Move, Pathseeker, and your eye is forfeit. Hold. Trey Atwood.”

Her voice came from far away. Trey felt like he was disappearing. But the Quarass’ voice burned in his head.

“Trey Atwood. Move the golem covered in your blood. Sand and blood. Mix the two and move it.”

Help me. He tried to plead with her, but she thrust his head down. Towards the blood-covered Gazi. Covered in his blood.

“Do it or you will die.”

Trey pushed. He had to; he couldn’t move with his arms locked by the Quarass’ grip. The little Gazi stirred. It was sand. But he felt it.

Blood. It was diluting his control over the Golem. But—it was his blood. And it had to move. He had to move it—

Dark red sand rose. It crystalized and the little Golem moved. It rushed at the Quarass, slashing with a tiny claymore. It hit the Quarass hard.

The Quarass let go of Trey. He fell limp, unable to move his hands. The Quarass struck the golem-Gazi with her palm, and the dark sand refused to crumble. It rocked backwards instead, fell still.

Trey was lying on the floor. The Quarass reached for her belt as she inspected the red Golem.

“Good. This is lifesand. Made of blood and sand. It will be your foundation for golems.”

No answer. Gazi was staring. Just staring. Sainath was sweating as he concentrated. Trey’s blood ran, but it was nearly out.

The Quarass moved fast. She uncorked the vial, bent over Trey, and thrust him over. She poured the healing potion onto his cut throat. Instantly, the wound cleared.

Trey gasped. He wasn’t thinking, wasn’t—the Quarass pressed the bottle to his mouth. Liquid went in and Trey woke up.

“Drink. You must replenish your lost blood.”

Trey flailed. He felt energy rush through him, life, as the powerful potion restored him. He swayed—the Quarass caught him.

“What—what was that?”

It was two minutes before Trey could speak. Then he just clutched his throat, staring at the little blood-sand Golem. At the Quarass. She had called it ‘lifesand’.

The girl stood over Trey, tsking at the blood on her sandals. She pointed at Trey’s throat, and then the golem.

“Training. I told you I would make your golems stronger. You have learned to make lifesand. That—”

Trey shouted. He rose, and leapt at the little girl. He punched wildly—the Quarass flipped him.

“You—”

Sainath kept working as the Quarass slammed Trey down, in a perfect throw. Trey was winded; she grabbed his arm and twisted it up. He shouted in pain, unable to move without wrenching it out of his socket. The Quarass stared down at him, dispassionately.

“Are you done?”

“You nearly killed me!”

“I ensured you’d be safe. Attack me again and I will throw you. Pathseeker is still being healed, Trey Atwood.”

She let go. Trey, panting, stared up at the Quarass. She was not a person. She was like Flos. Someone who used people like toys!

“You—you—”

She waited. Trey curled up, clutching at his throat. He remembered dying. Tears sprang into his eyes. The sixteen-year old boy rolled over, facing a wall, in the blood. His blood on the floor.

“I hate you. I want to leave.”

The Quarass sighed.

“When Pathseeker is healed. Sainath?”

It was another ten minutes before the [Formshaper] finished. Trey just shook in a corner, clutching at his throat. The Quarass waited. And then the old man took his hands away from Gazi’s eye with a sigh. She blinked, and he exhaled slowly.

Sweat was beading his brow. Sainath looked at the Quarass, Trey on the floor, and then Gazi. He wearily nodded.

“It may be done. I have joined everything as seamlessly as I am able. I detect no flaw. However…your eye was new to me. I would caution you to work magic into it slowly. Carefully. Do you feel it is done, Lady Pathseeker?”

Gazi nodded. She slowly moved her eye, blinking.

“I think so, Sainath of A’ctelios. You have my utmost gratitude. Name your price.”

“What could you pay a child of A’ctelios, Pathseeker? Baosar will give me what I wish for.”

The old man smiled. Gazi hesitated, and then bowed. She stood up slowly, and her eye—her whole eye—swiveled in its socket.

Even Trey looked up from his fetal position to see it. Gazi’s eye looked whole, beautiful. But she seemed…nervous. The Quarass inspected her and nodded slowly.

“If I have succeeded, the King of Destruction is twice in my debt. Let us go and test Pathseeker’s eye later. Come, Trey Atwood. Now we leave.”

She swept towards the door. Trey didn’t move. Sainath stared at Trey and then hurried after the Quarass. Gazi looked at Trey. The young man was curled up.

“Trey.”

“I hate her.”

The half-Gazer walked over to Trey. She hesitated, and then knelt and put a hand on his shoulder.

“The Quarass is unkind.”

“You’re evil too. Sometimes.”

Trey was crying a bit. He’d died. He was sure of it. He had never felt that terrified, thinking the Quarass was killing him, betraying Gazi. He looked at her.

“Did you think—?”

“For a moment. I was worried for you. Had she let you die—I would have slain her. But I could not move. My eye—it was a perfect trap. If she had been false.”

The half-Gazer looked at Trey. She lowly reached down and took one bloody arm.

“Come, Trey Atwood.”

She helped him up. Trey leaned on her weakly as they followed the Quarass out of the room. His head was still spinning.

Outside, Athal stared at Trey’s blood-soaked clothing. The young man’s cheerfulness drained as he glanced between Gazi and the Quarass. He didn’t even notice the half-Gazer’s open eye.

“All went well? Baosar wished you to be availed of every courtesy, Quarass—”

“I am pleased. Inform Baosar I am soon departing. I would like to express my gratitude before leaving.”

The Quarass spoke brusquely. Athal bowed and practically ran away. It did Trey some good seeing how even A’ctelios’ people were nervous around the Quarass.

He’d forgotten what she was. Now, Trey remembered and glared at her. The Quarass looked back at him.

“It does not work if you are told exactly what will occur. Magic is part inspiration. You must learn it in the moment, or by ages of work.”

“I don’t care. I hate it. This isn’t worth it. Vaitsha doesn’t deserve to suffer like this either. You use people like—like pawns.”

She didn’t blink, just nodded.

“Yes. I pushed you, Trey Atwood. I maneuvered you. How else would you become strong? I have seen that few are strong enough to push themselves to their fullest potential.”

Trey opened and shut his mouth. He couldn’t do anything but glare. It was Gazi who spoke up in his place. Her central, healed eye focused on the Quarass.

“You make your subjects and allies strong, Quarass. But I wonder if you have forgotten what it means to be mortal.”

The Quarass’ lips thinned. She stared at Gazi, and then turned her back. Athal was coming back.

“Let us meet Baosar.”

She strode out of the meeting hall. Athal led them swiftly back, heading towards the eyes in the distance. As they went, they passed by shafts, circular stairwells leading deeper, past the first layer. Down from the head.

Trey barely noticed. Gazi was helping him and while he was getting stronger with each step, his head still spun. People who saw him gasped, and stared.

The Quarass paid no mind to any of it. She walked calmly, past one of the descending stairwell and turned her head.

“A calm day. Quite pleasant, for a visit to A’ctelios Salash.”

Gazi and Trey glared at the Quarass. She ignored them. Trey had to stop for a second by one of the shafts. He raised a hand.

“Let me take one more video before we leave.”

Gazi waited as Trey fished out his iPhone. He turned it on, stared at his image in the video, and then gestured at his throat. There wasn’t even a scar, but blood had soaked his clothing.

“Hey, this is Trey. I just had my throat cut by the Quarass because she’s helping me. Also, Gazi met someone who helped her out. This is A’ctelios Salash, by the way.”

He angled the iPhone to the Quarass. She stared at him. And then Trey saw the same beast as he’d seen before, dragging a huge chunk of…meat…across the ground.

Literally just meat. A block of it, cut into a huge square. The beast was tethered with leather, made of this place. It was huffing, dragging the huge thing while some [Laborers] pushed. But as Trey filmed the Quarass, the creature raised what was its head and turned. It uttered another wailing sound.

Then it tore forwards, breaking the leather harness. It charged at Trey, tearing loose of its captors. The young man stared.

“Trey! Dodge!”

Gazi flung Trey to one side. She drew her sword and cut. Trey saw the Quarass lifting something, a flash—a scream. But the pakeil came on. It fell, skidding, and slammed into Trey.

He shouted, scrambling for his bag of holding. Out came the magical staff, and he shoved backwards. A magical arrow hit the pakeil as Gazi’s sword flashed again.

“Lady Pathseeker! Stop! It is stopped, stopped!”

Athal’s voice. Trey was on his feet, panting. He stared down at the fleshy beast of burden. It was bleeding red—Gazi had cut it twice, and the Quarass had put a scorched hole in its side. But it was still alive.

And it was still trying to get to Trey. He stared at it.

“Why did it charge him?”

The Quarass demanded sharply. Someone stammered an explanation. Trey backed away as Gazi looked around. Her central eyelid was closed once more, but her four eyes spun.

Blood ran down her blade.

Red blood.

Trey…paused. He didn’t expect red blood from a creature like this. But this was A’ctelios. Which had been built of a monster that had died in Chandrar and been buried. They ate it here. But whatever horror lurked in the Carven City, Trey had not seen it openly.

Oh, the buildings made of dried flesh and bone. The warnings about the food. The people with their teeth, the baby—but he had not seen it directly. Even this beast—Trey shuddered as it moved weakly. Even it was less horrific than what was unknown, what he feared. It just bled red, not green or yellow or black or whatever blood some eldritch thing would bleed.

Red, seeping around the layers of flesh staining the blue and black fabric—

Trey’s breath caught in his chest. Slowly, he stooped. Someone tried to stop him but Trey knocked the hands aside. He stared down at the…strap. Of fabric, caught in the layers of the pakeil’s body.

It was not the leather harness. It was something else. Trey pulled at it, ignoring the beast moving. He moved aside mottled flesh, his stomach heaving. But he had to know. His mind had a supposition. A piece of a story, if you imagined what might be in a place like this. And he had to—

Something was buried around its flesh. It came undone as Trey found a buckle. He lifted it clear and stared at it. Below, the thing of flesh writhed, and its voice warbled and twisted as its heaving shape was secured by ropes. Yet the thing Trey held was not of flesh.

It was…a backpack. Trey stared at the blood-stained, filthy fabric. His hands shook.

“What is that? It should have been removed—Trey Atwood—”

Athal backed away as Gazi’s sword shifted, aiming at his face. She stared at Trey. Three of her eyes, and her closed central one. He looked at her.

“Trey.”

He opened it. And fished out the first thing he saw with shaking hands. A thing of plastic. A dark screen. Metal around the rim. Trey nearly dropped it. He looked at Gazi.

A camera.

Slowly, so slowly, Trey turned to look at the pakeil. That was what Athal had called it. The others were securing it with ropes, lashing it with their whips. It was not a person. But it had worn the backpack.

Do not eat—

Trey was holding the magic staff. The Quarass had seen the camera. She spun.

“Baosar!”

Her words rumbled and those around her fell back, but for Gazi. Yet even her voice was distant. Trey was trembling, looking down at the thing.

Its face was obscured by folds of flesh. He wondered if it could even see. He thought he saw an eye. One. Something looking up at him.

“[Light Spear].”

Trey murmured a spell. The tip of his staff erupted into a blade of solid, yellow light. It was a spell to make a weapon. The magical tip was sharp. Trey stared at the pakeil. The transformed Human.

He raised his staff, then brought the magical blade down. Trey drove the staff through the thing’s head. It didn’t die immediately, but made a sound like a sigh. Trey stabbed again and again.

“—ey—rey—Trey—Trey!”

Someone grabbed him. Trey jolted. He spun—Gazi was holding him with one arm. The other held the claymore. The Gazer’s main eye was shut, but all four smaller ones were looking at him.

“Trey. It is dead.”

The young man stared down at what remained of the pakeil—no, the person’s head. Whomever it was, it was dead. Completely. It was destroyed, and everyone was staring at him.

“What is the meaning of this? Quarass, has someone given offense? Athal! Why is a dead pakeil here? They are not to be seen by outsiders!”

Baosar arrived at last. He took in the scene and rounded on his son. Athal protested.

“I did not mean it, father! He killed one of the pakeil! But it did attack him first!”

He pointed at Trey. Baosar saw Trey. Saw the young man reaching for the backpack. Trey stared at Baosar, the glowing staff and magical [Light Spear] in his other hand.

“They’re people.”

A sigh ran through the gathered crowd, all of A’ctelios. Athal raised his hands, trying to smile.

“Not people, Trey Atwood. Outsiders. Those who eat too much, or whom—”

He froze as the Quarass and Gazi looked at him. The Quarass stared at the backpack, and then at Baosar. She made a sound and slashed with her hand as she whirled to confront him.

“Disaa! How has this come to be? I know these possessions and these children were not souls who sought A’ctelios’ mercy or gifts! Were they given a choice?”

“Quarass, please. These are not new pakeil—”

“When were they changed? How were they offered A’ctelios’ food? I cannot believe they would have chosen this willingly! And they are all pakeil? Are any alive? Tell me how many! Where!”

“Please, Quarass—”

Gazi had sheathed her blade. She pulled Trey back. He saw the Quarass arguing furiously with Baosar as he sought answers. In the end, all he could do was shake his head.

“A dozen or so children. Those who wandered to us. They made their choice, Quarass. What more is to say?”

“And all became pakeil? Do not take me for a fool, Baosar. I have known A’ctelios longer than you or your kin have lived! This was not an accident. Nor would these children have taken the risk had they known. They were tricked.”

The Quarass hissed at the man. Baosar’s eyes flickered. He looked around, and then spread his hands. And his smile was apologetic and nothing more.

“Sometimes a choice is given without the words being spoken outright, Quarass. Times change.”

The little girl froze. She pointed a finger, advancing on him.

“That is not the way your forebears agreed to! I hold that treaty in my memories!”

Baosar looked down on her. He was a tall man and she was a child. For once, the Quarass seemed to realize the difference. Baosar’s voice lost its respect by turns as he replied.

“Quarass. This is my kingdom. And these are my rules. You are a guest. We have acceded to Germina’s plea for Reim. But do not overstep. I apologize for the incident. Of course, had we known these ones mattered to…is it your servant? Or the King of Destruction’s?”

The Quarass’ lips tightened. Baosar moved past her. He approached Trey. Smiling. The young man stared at Baosar’s normal face. He was not some cultist, and he spoke eloquently, without evil. But that was worst of all. Monsters, pretending to be people.

“I apologize deeply, Trey Atwood. Did you know these people? Some do not join A’ctelios. But it is a risk for all outsiders. Many become part of our kingdom. But in this case, I will make amends. What is that bag you carry? I think some more objects such as these fell into our hands, but none worked. Perhaps—”

Trey lifted the staff in his hand. He stabbed Baosar in the center of his chest with the glowing spear of light. The ruler of A’ctelios recoiled, but it was too late. The staff and the spear stuck halfway through Baosar’s chest. He stumbled back, off the glowing blade.

“He has attacked Baosar!”

Athal screamed. Instantly, the peacekeepers of A’ctelios drew their weapons. They stopped when Baosar, stumbling backwards, raised a hand.

He was bleeding profusely from his chest. Trey had thrust deep. But—the young man saw Baosar catch himself. The blade should have damaged the area around his heart, severed ribs. Should have left Baosar screaming, on the floor, as he should be.

But the man only laughed. He laughed at Trey as the blood flow stopped, and his flesh began to knit even as Trey watched. The wound in his chest closed.

“What are you?”

Baosar laughed, and his teeth were sharp.

“Fleshchosen, little boy. In our home, we are mighty, little traveller. And you have given offense.”

He pointed. Warriors surrounded Trey, armed with bone blades. Gazi whirled, hand on her claymore. The Quarass shouted.

“Stop! Baosar, stand back!”

She strode forwards. Someone was blowing one of the warbling horns, and more of A’ctelios’ soldiers were appearing. They poured across bridges, down the carven streets without ceasing, an army of them. They surrounded the Quarass and Trey and Gazi.

“Stand back. This child is under my aegis, and that of the King of Destruction.”

The Quarass’ voice was like striking lightning, and those around her fell back. But Baosar pointed at her carelessly, unafraid.

“The Quarass will not impede our right to claim him. This is A’ctelios, not Germina. And our friendship and alliance of old runs only so far, Quarass. Give him to us.”

He gestured at Trey. The young man held his staff and the backpack, shaking. Gazi looked around, hand on her claymore. The warriors knew who she was, but they were numberless.

The Quarass stared at Baosar. She looked around.

“And if I refuse, Baosar?”

The man stared at the Quarass and smiled, clenching his teeth together.

“The Quarass will accede. Or she will live in A’ctelios forever.”

The little Quarass looked at him. She hesitated, and Gazi stepped forwards.

“Better men than you have battled with the Quarass of Germina, Baosar of A’ctelios. By order of the King of Destruction, beg forgiveness and let us pass.”

Baosar stared at her.

“Half-Gazer, you are far from home and outnumbered. We have done you a boon for the Quarass. But do not think—”

Gazi drew her claymore. Her sword flashed once. Baosar flinched—and his head toppled from his shoulders. Body and head fell to the ground in the silence.

Someone choked. Gazi Pathseeker kicked the head carelessly. Then she turned and looked around at the silent, stunned people of A’ctelios. She grinned. And her teeth were sharper than Baosar’s.

“A petty gift for the Carven City to offer, if it cannot stop mere metal from claiming your lives. Trey, Quarass, stand behind me.”

The warrior’s paralysis broke. The Quarass ran and Trey, backed up. He saw something running at him from the side—

Gazi’s sword went through a man skull, helmet and all. She cut up and whirled her sword, slashed through a torso and cut through another axe and arm. She was a whirlwind!

The warriors came at her in a mob. There were too many! The Quarass aimed her wand and shot a hole through another warrior. Trey summoned a wall of sand shielding him and her. But there were too many! Even for Gazi!

But the half-Gazer strode forwards. And as the hordes of A’ctelios fell on her, she laughed. And then—

She opened her eye.

Light burst from Gazi’s yellow iris. Just light. A pure beam of it, as bright and full of life as sunlight, streamed upwards. The dwellers of the Tombhome flinched backwards, crying out at the unwelcome brightness. The beam fell on them as Gazi’s eye turned. Trey saw a flash, and then the half-Gazer, the [Scout], Gazi the Omniscient moved.



—-



The people of A’ctelios had given up their freedom, even their bodies for the gift of their rotting home. They had power here, in their city. They would never leave it, but they were strong enough to have never fallen to siege. It was not worth the cost. So they were strong.

But for a moment, they died. The half-Gazer slashed left and right, wielding her claymore in two hands. The white-silver blade cut the bone armor and weapons of her foes, and her armor blocked every weapon.

Even when they struck her with an axe from behind. Even when a spell burst on her chest. Her armor was invincible, and the only part of the half-Gazer uncovered was her head. And—

She could see. No blade reached Gazi’s head. Her sword blocked and parried and she cut down everything around her.

Laughing, slashing. She had been powerful with her armor and Skills before. Now, Trey saw why she was one of Flos’ Seven. As A’ctelios’ warriors tried to surround her, her eye moved, and the iris and pupil shifted, calling on magic.

Her pupil widened and a group of the warriors burst into flame. Gazi blocked an arrow coming at her head—she ignored the blows on her armor, cutting, her claymore slashing through armor and flesh without rest. Her eye turned as she cut down another foe—a group collided with an invisible wall.

The eye was casting spells. Another foe froze as she tried to stab at Trey. The young man backed up, and the Quarass’ wand shot a hole in the warrior. Gazi’s eye turned again. This time, more flames. All her eyes were spinning, seeing everything, predicting every attack—

A minute passed. The attackers halted, staring. Trey couldn’t even count how many dozens Gazi had killed. They lay dead around her, blood and body parts lying in the Carven City. Gazi cut the last two apart as they slowed, caught by her main eye. They fell to the ground and blood ran around Trey’s feet. He stared down at Baosar’s head, numbly.

“I owe A’ctelios a favor.”

Gazi’s voice was slow. The warriors stared as she lifted her claymore, grinning. The half-Gazer looked around.

“I owe the Carven City a great favor. But you have given offense first. These two are under the protection of the King of Destruction. As were the children you tricked. This blood alone will not wash away your guilt.”

She raised her blade and pointed around. And no one could meet her gaze. Gazi smiled.

“If you would stop our departure—come, then. Show me the might of the Carven City. And I will make Tombhome more than but a name.”



—-



A’ctelios Salash, the Shield Kingdom which rots, screamed. The outsiders not of the city fled—but it was not them that the city raged against.

Every corner of the city borne of death was shaking. Children, adults—everyone had gone insane. They charged, tens of thousands pouring from every passage. Pursuing three running figures. A child, a young man, and a half-Gazer.

The half-Gazer was fastest. She cut apart her pursuers, her eye taking down her attackers as the young girl fumbled with her bag of holding. The young man was casting spells as he ran towards the exit.

The three leapt on the carpet that appeared at the girl’s feet and flew towards the entrance-eye they had come from, as the entire Carven City roared behind them. Trey saw people racing after the carpet, trying to catch it, unnaturally fast.

“Rain down on my foes, arrows of light! Illuminate the sky and strike with profusion!”

He shouted and his [Light Arrows] shot from the staff. Gazi was behind him, her blade still whirling.

The magical arrows blasted the pursuers back, knocking them down. Trey heard shouts of pain—Gazi’s main eye moved and a group about to leap off a walkway slowed. Her eye flitted right, and a flight of arrows snapped in midair. Trey whirled and saw a shape bounding down from above.

Athal, hands outstretched, leaping for them, snarling. Trey blasted him away with three [Light Arrows]. Gazi cut down two more clinging to the carpet.

“Hold on!”

The Quarass snapped and did an aileron roll. The others trying to climb on went flying, and a group leaping down from above bounced off the carpet’s bottom. The Quarass angled the carpet, tilted it sideway, and shot down a narrow passage.

“The entrance!”

Trey screamed as he flung more arrows. The Quarass shot towards it. Faster and faster—Trey saw light from outside, sand—

They burst out of the Carven City as Gazi blocked the last spells and arrows flying after them. The half-Gazer’s armor was covered in blood, and scorched in places from spells—but she had taken no wounds.

Neither had Trey or the Quarass. The young man, clutching the backpack and the staff in one hand, heard the city shrieking behind him. People poured out of the eye as the Quarass took them up and away—he saw them scrambling back inside.

“Oh god. It was—oh—”

Trey sat back on the carpet. It too was stained with blood. He just stared at Gazi, and then the Quarass.

The half-Gazer was smiling. Her central eye was open wide, and it was turning, glowing, as she looked back. She looked at Trey.

“I am whole. I am sorry for the children, Trey. I did not realize until you did. A’ctelios hides its darkness in the shadows.”

He just stared at her. The Quarass turned from her seat. She was not smiling. The little ruler was furious.

“The King of Destruction owes me a great debt. A’ctelios will not bear this lightly! Nor will the other Shield Kingdoms! Although they may understand if—”

She made a disgusted sound. Trey looked at her. The Quarass’ eyes lingered on the backpack he still held. He hesitated.

“Quarass, I—”

She held up one small palm towards him. The Quarass breathed in and out, slowly.

“Do not speak to me, Trey Atwood. Your anger was not misplaced, but your deed and Pathseeker’s was unwise. We risked more than death. And I am full of wrath at you.”

Trey nodded. Then he hesitated. He stared back at the Carven City and froze. Gazi’s smile slipped.

“Quarass—”

“I said, do not speak.”

“Quarass, look.”

The ruler of Germina turned back. She, like Trey and Gazi, beheld A’ctelios Salash from afar. The city built into the dead creature. So vast and huge that it held countless lives, and yet only the head stuck up from the sands.

The head, and the five eyes, gateways into the rotten city of corruption. Five eyes, staring blankly ahead. Or, they had been.

Four eyes stared straight ahead, but for the one they’d left. The last, its strange pattern traced into the eye, the glowing light from within, had moved. Turned.

It was staring at them. Trey froze. It was impossible. This thing was dead. It had been hollowed out! Had A’ctelios’ people done it somehow? He turned to the Quarass.

She paled, and her eyes went wide with fear. A third new emotion in her. Trey stared at her. The Quarass looked at the staring eye. Then at Trey. She turned around.

“Fly onwards. And never look back. Leave A’ctelios to its madness. When the day comes when Dragons fly and ruin stalks the earth, even insanity is a weapon to be borne against the tyrant.”

That was all she said. Trey turned his back on A’ctelios. It was that or stare. He was grateful when it was covered in the distance by the dunes.

They flew onwards. Trey was breathing hard. He stared at the backpack. Tears entered his eyes. And Gazi knelt. She was still bloody, but she had sheathed her sword after cleaning it. She looked at him, her central eye meeting one of his.

“Brave little [Mage]. You understand what it means to fight. Not for bloodlust or victory alone. But for this. A cause.”

Trey sobbed. He hugged the backpack to him. Someone had died there. A dozen! He’d killed them, and it was a mercy.

“I’ll never forgive them. Never. Ever. I’ll come back and burn it to the ground.”

Trey whispered it out loud. His grief was mixed with his disgust, his horror. His fury. From ahead, the Quarass looked at him, but Trey met her eyes. And it was she who looked away first.

“Yes.”

Gazi knelt by Trey. Her eyes were intent. And she nodded as she rested a hand on his shoulder.

“When that day comes, his Majesty will be there.”

No one said anything after that. The Quarass spoke in a clipped voice as she angled the carpet north and east.

“We fly back to Reim. The King of Destruction has tweaked the world by the nose at Jecrass. Lest he cause offense, we should move at haste.”

“Yes. And we may begin my plan.”

Gazi stood. She looked at Trey, the Quarass. And the ruler of Germina looked back at her, narrow-eyed. But the half-Gazer’s eye shone as the sun set and Trey left the Shield Kingdom of horrors behind. Perhaps he travelled with something just as terrible—or two of them. But Trey—looked at the Quarass. Then Gazi. She sat next to him, cleaning her armor.

Trey wiped his eyes and leaned against her, too exhausted to care or fear for the future. He slept, as the King of Destruction met with Gnolls. Before they landed, among others, A’ctelios Salash had declared war.



[Sand Mage Level 18!]

[Skill – Create Lifesand Golems obtained!]

[Spell – Karas Duststorm obtained!]





7.10 K


They came, from the world over. For one man’s name.

Flos Reimarch. Scorn him if they would, the other petty rulers and plotters and schemers. His enemies might curse his name, might point out a thousand of his flaws. And the King of Destruction would probably agree with many.

But they came, from distant shores, across Chandrar, through the deserts and across thousands of miles. For him.

Not just because he was a [King] of war. Not just because he was mighty. But because of what he was. Because of what he offered his people. For a chance, and a dream, they came.

A marching band of Gnolls looked up as they passed through the night. The King of Destruction was still far yonder by many miles. But so few compared to how far they’d come. They hurried, even in the night, preferring it. Daylight would bring more trouble.

And they had buried their dead six times before. The Gnolls hurried, hoping to reach the King of Destruction, hoping to send a quick member of their people ahead. That they would find him before—

The female [Chieftain] raised her head. The band of just over a hundred Gnolls, worn, a tiny tribe, looked up. And they heard the shouting. They saw the torches.

They ran, abandoning their belongings, what few remained. But it was too late. So they stood and howled as they fought. There had been no quarter before. And there would not be again.

They died, there, on that lonesome road. For a dream. Gnolls stood together, whirling slings, throwing spears and fighting in a land of sand and dust. The children hid, as they blew horns and called his name. They had found death, seeking that [King]. But it was just a different kind than they had left.

One by one, they fell. Until even their attackers started to falter at the slaughter. Until both sides were burnt down, because the Gnolls would not cease or flee. In a foreign land, a small tribe of a foreign people died.

But still they dreamed of a [King] who did not even know their names. Who had never known them. They reached for that dream, as silence fell and blood seeped into the sands.

And the King of Destruction heard, but he did not understand. And he woke from restless dreams reaching for his sword. But all he heard in the waking world was silence. And the beating of his heart.

And still more came, finding death. But some found him.



—-



In the dawn of the day after the King of Destruction’s dramatic hunt of Manticores, his arrival at Belchan, another [King] sat upon his throne in the north.

Medain, the Kingdom of Adventurers. So named for the three magical dungeons that had been discovered in the nation, which still provided treasures and lured countless adventurers to the nation like flies to honeyed fruit.

That alone made Medain rich, but it was also a coastal nation and thus blessed with easy access to water, unlike many of Chandrar’s desert-nations. Medain could afford [Hydromancers] to desalinate water, could attract trading ships by dint of the monster parts and materials that were generated in its dungeons.

It had a powerful army, made of former adventurers and those willing to fight in wars. The laws of Chandrar were not that of Izril; adventurers made up a part of Medain’s armies that regularly clashed with its neighbors.

So Medain’s [King], Perric, was a powerful ruler of a powerful nation. But he was displeased today.

“I have a parade ready to proceed whenever Wistram deigns to transmit my celebrations. Why have they not answered my summons? You.”

He pointed. The woman in robes spoke, her voice breathless with fear. She was a [Mage] of Wistram of course, but any true ruler cultivated fear in those who stood before him. Even Wistram’s envoys were not above being made examples of.

“Your Majesty, King Perric. The academy has heard your request, but I am not privy to the thoughts of the Archmages or the Council—”

He silenced her with one look. The air around the throne grew stiff, edged, and the young [Mage] faltered.

“High King. I am a [High King]; two nations fall under my aegis. And I did not request. I informed the academy of the parade. Why have they not sent their [Seers] or [Diviners] to broadcast it?”

“Wistram’s single—channel your Majesty—it can only support the display of one event at a time.”

“Yes. Which is why I have put Medain’s grandeur on display.”

Perric stared, resting the side of his face on his hand. His throne shone as he sat on it, with so many protective spells and enchantments that the [Mage] standing before the throne would be vaporized if he so desired. She spoke carefully, sweat beading her brow.

“Yes, High King. However—I regret to inform you that this day, Wistram has received invitations or pronouncements from over forty separate nations or organizations of their own displays. The Academy is simply unable to choose.”

High King Perric of Medain paused. His eyes swiveled left and a huge scrying mirror—so large you could pace back and front in front of it and never go out of frame—lit up. He saw an image of a group of [Knights] charging…

“A single Hydra?”

Perric scoffed. He had been an adventurer in his youth. The huge, roaring monster with multiple heads, taller than two houses, able to snap up a horse and rider in a single bite, did not faze him.

It was customary for [Princes] to journey from their kingdom if they were not needed, to level in another class perhaps, or just enjoy their freedom. As a [Prince], Perric had been a Gold-rank adventurer. He sneered at the image as the [Knights] charged in.

They were not the Order of Seasons, but rather armored in dark purple and green, eschewing full-plate for more mobile coverings of chainmail, scale, and layered armor for maximum mobility. They charged around the Hydra, battling the heads as they hacked at it.

Perric saw they were at least aware of the Hydra’s ability to regenerate; they were using magical blades and they burned, or used other effects in the open wounds to halt the Hydra’s tissue regeneration.

As the huge beast retreated, hissing and snapping, one of the [Knights] leapt from the horse. He used a Skill and the [High King] saw an arc of light appear. The slash took off one of the Hydra’s long heads by the neck and the [Knights] roared and charged as the beast reeled backwards.

The image abruptly cut to a pair of Drakes sitting at a table. It was a rather nice table, and the two Drakes were shuffling pieces of paper. One of them spoke carefully into an amulet he’d tied to a little wooden stand, and his voice was pleasant, clear, and intimate, altered by the speaking spell.

“…And we’re back. This is Noass and Sir Relz, coming to you live, is that the word, Sir Relz? Yes, alive and well from Pallass. What you good viewers just witnessed was the Order of the Thirsting Veil, if I have the name right, battling a Hydra. They are a Terandrian-based [Knight] Order, founded in Ailendamus—Sir Relz?”

The Drake with the monocle next to Noass nodded. He took a sip from a cup in front of him, and the magical tonic also did wonders to his voice. He had a second cup with a stamina potion in it. It was a bad idea to mix alchemical drinks like alcohol.

“That’s correct, Noass. The Thirsting Veil Order, known for their stealth-capabilities as well as an emphasis on poison-based weaponry and armor. This was an initiation for some of their younger [Knights] and [Squires]—the veteran [Knights] were leading a hunt of the Hydra, as you saw. Not an easy kill, no indeed. I think we’re going back to them? Ah—we have a picture within a picture, here—”

The Drakes hurriedly edged over as a scrying mirror appeared, showing the battle once more. The Hydra was spitting venom and the [Knights] were trying to prevent it from retreating into a swamp. Noass nodded.

“You can see they’re armored for the battle. Normally, I imagine those shields—uh—would not block that venom. Or if it did, they’d have to worry about poison seeping through the armor, possibly even corroding it, evaporating. Can we have an expert confirm that?”

Someone to the side murmured and there was a sound of a door opening hurriedly. Perric just stared as the Wistram [Mage] smiled nervously. Noass coughed.

“—obviously, poison is somewhat unique for a [Knight] order. [Knights] normally eschew that sort of fighting, isn’t that right, Sir Relz? Of course, this is a mainly Human-based class—”

“There are [Knights] across the world, Noass.”

The other Drake coughed and nodded hurriedly.

“—of course, of course. I meant, not a Drake class. Or Gnolls! I’m sure it’s fine! Does the job—[Knights] are a heavily-armored class with rapid mobility if you’re unfamiliar with them. Magical items really do wonders for the class, but they do have a code of honor. Poison is odd, isn’t that right, Sir Relz?”

“That’s correct, Noass. But I understand this is for slaying monsters or in mass-battles; seldom a duel between [Knights]. They might coat their blades with a lesser poison, but a lethal one in a honor-match? Never. But they are a formidable force in Ailendamus; the Thirsting Veil has fought in a number of wars, which is a controversial subject in [Knight] battles—oh! They got the Hydra!”

The dying monster had been lanced. Noass exclaimed.

“It’s still going to fight back! Hydras. Nasty, nasty creatures. Ironically you almost always wear one down; they regenerate, but they can’t do it forever, so the trick is to force them to regenerate rather than going in for a single kill—see? The [Knights] are trying to hack it apart so it runs out of energy—”

A furry hand appeared next to the desk. Noass leaned over.

“…and I’m told from our experts that yes, Hydra venom is an issue in all those regards. Clearly, these [Knights] have a Skill, or perhaps armor or a potion they’re using against the venom. And I imagine it makes them deadly on the battlefield, even if they’re not slaying monsters! Sir Relz, I’m getting a [Message] here saying our next uh, entertainment? Our next section? Our next viewing will be of a battle in Baleros between two companies.”

Sir Relz nodded. Still a bit awkwardly, but clearly with at least an hour or two of practice now, the Drakes motioned for the scrying mirror to be taken off-screen as they turned to face the audience. Someone moved the image a bit closer as the two Drakes leaned in. Sir Relz was already motioning for a map to be brought over.

“Let’s brief the viewers now on the stakes, the companies, our predictions and [Strategist] predictions on the matchup, Noass. Which company will win? The companies in question are Saliev’s Dogs and the Shoretreader’s Lament. Let’s talk numbers, the levels of each notable [Commander], any interesting features of the terrain, elite soldiers or units and of course the overall makeup of each army—we will be accepting [Messages] from any accredited [Strategist] on their analysis of the battle.”

The two Drake [Commentators] went on as King Perric just stared, blank-faced.

“Do we have any idea on how willing these two companies are to retreat, Sir Relz? Mercenary companies in Baleros do not want to fight to the death over most battles, so I imagine the other side will surrender or retreat once an upper hand is established. But surprises are why we watch! I see we have a visual of both sides from whomever’s on the field—oh! And one of the [Mercenary Commanders] is waving!”

Noass waved and shouted, as if the distant Centaur [Commander] could hear him directly.

“Hello! You are alive! Live! I don’t suppose we could get an interview before the battle, could we?”

Sir Relz said something, but at that moment, King Perric made a slashing motion and the mirror went blank. He slowly looked around.

“And is this what Wistram deems worthy of broadcast?”

“High King—”

“Are these two—Drakes and a battle between mercenaries more important than Medain?”

He stood abruptly. The [Mage] stared up at Perric from his throne. His aura was on the verge of sweeping her aside, just from his presence. The [Mage] quailed, turning pale as Perric pointed towards the blank mirror.

“That man was broadcast to the world! Hunting Manticores! Should I demonstrate my prowess in battle, against a dozen Sandsea Worms? Order one of my [Generals] to find a nest; we will hunt!”

He raised his voice, but the [Mage] protested.

“High King, that will not be necessary. Due to the—due to the numerous important requests we have received, yours among them, the academy has elected not to show any one nation. Until a fair order can be set out, Wistram does not wish to offend any monarch by exclusion or the order of their appearance!”

That made enough sense to pause High King Perric’s wrath. He sat down slowly, eying the [Mage]. She was a half-Elf. Perric had one in his harem. His philosophy towards a wife was that she should be loyal, if he ever found one worthy of ruling beside him. But a [King] should demonstrate his might. Therefore, he had made it one of his passions to collect at least one member of each species in his harem.

Except for Selphids, naturally. And he had given up on most half-breeds. And every single Beastkin tribe. If this [Mage] had been a shade more beautiful, he might have invited her to join him that night. But she was not. Perric drummed his fingers on the armrest.

“I suppose I must allow the academy their politics. But why is there only one…channel?”

Sighing in relief, the half-Elf spread her hands, adopting a conciliatory tone.

“High King Perric, the proposed system of—magic-vision is extremely complicated to make. At the moment, three Archmages and many of Wistram’s finest [Mages] have only been able to create a magical system capable of supporting one unified broadcast. However, with time and perhaps additional resources, more dedicated broadcasts will be possible. It is Wistram’s goal that anyone with a scrying orb might be able to watch any number of important events, even switching between the two.”

Perric snorted at the speech.

“And it would allow Wistram to watch us, as well?”

The [Mage] froze. Perric’s eyes glittered.

“I have heard a rumor to that effect.”

“Your Majesty, Wistram Academy would never do such a thing! Any rumors to the contrary are false and malicious—”

“Yes, yes. Begone from my sight. Cancel the parade. When one of your Archmages has time, we shall discuss trade options—assuming Medain is suitably able to command the world’s attention.”

Perric turned his head, giving orders, and the Wistram [Mage], bowing, retreated. Perric scowled as he motioned and the two Drakes appeared once more.

“—what a battle! Half a minute and a [Commander] sniped as he trotted towards us! It’s a clear rout—I er, think we had better revisit how we do interviews, Sir Relz.”

“Indeed, Noass, indeed. But onto the next segment. We have a parade in Rhir—no, I’m sorry, the Blighted King has allowed some of Wistram’s [Mages] to tour the walls and cities of the Blighted Kingdom. Nowhere that might reveal military secrets of course; this is being broadcast worldwide.”

High King Perric’s face was black with fury. He turned his head—the Wistram [Mage] had already made tracks out the door. Perric breathed in heavily as he turned back to watch. It was, after all, entertainment. You could go outside, but that was…outside. And somehow, seeing the two Drakes talking and knowing everyone was watching made this special. Important.

And many had not ever seen Rhir in person, including Perric, so he was a bit fascinated. Noass was nodding as he turned to face the audience.

“If you’re just tuning in, this is Noass and Sir Relz, your [Commentators] for the day! If you would like to see us permanently, please [Message] Wistram! Naturally, the fate of Rhir is a world-wide issue, so let’s go now to the kingdom and hopefully the Blighted King will have time for a few words.”

“We’re going out in thirty seconds.”

Someone murmured off-screen. Sir Relz nodded.

“As always, we will deliver commentary after the direct viewing. We have a full schedule for today, and we will be live all day—until some other [Commentators] will take the position. As always, we will stick to our schedule unless an event of significance occurs—for instance, the King of Destruction is apparently still in Belchan at the moment, but if he finds any more monsters to hunt, we will have to cut to him—”

Perric’s right eye began to twitch.



—-



Television had come to the world. Or rather, magicvision. That was less catchy, but everything was new and sparkling. And already, influence from Earth was coloring this new idea, this new technology.

There were differences, like how the two Drakes could and did call in experts to demonstrate Skills, used illusion magic to illustrate their broadcast, and any number of differences emerging. But Wistram was being informed by, well, people who knew what broadcast entertainment was.

And the academy was all-in. Perric was not the only monarch furious over their lack of representation, but all of them were getting the same sort of message: Wistram had a limited amount of important space to show everyone, and you might not be important enough.

Of course, you could be. You might be! But Wistram only had one channel. For now. Another could be created, but availability would always be a problem. Still, generous aid would not go unappreciated, nudge, nudge. And right now, everything was new and free!

You might pay for it in the end. No, you would pay for it in the end, but for now, with a Wistram-quality scrying device or better, the broadcast was free. And the Archmages and Wistram’s Council were envisioning donations in exchange for airtime, multiple ways to gain financial revenue—

After all, commercials and such had not yet come to this world. However, there were a few hiccups.

Aaron Vanwell, also known as Blackmage, stood on a table, aiming a wand at his head. The tip glowed as he shouted. A group of [Mages] were all pointing at him, but he had the wand aimed at his temple.

“I’ll do it! Don’t make me do it!”

“Aaron, Aaron! Calm down! Dispel his magic if he casts. He’s not going to do it, right?”

Nailihuaile, the Archmage of the Revivalist faction, shouted up at the young man. Aaron stared down at her.

“I’ll blow my head off before I let you do it! No commercials!”

“Aaron, it’s a great idea—”

The young man pushed the wand towards his cheek. The other [Mages] all raised their hands. The Star Lamia Archmage waved her staff. She was nearly certain she could dispel his magic right now, but keeping the Earthers under her control and cooperative was important. You couldn’t cast mind-spells or charm spells on them all. It was inefficient!

“Aaron, stop this! We can talk!”

“I’ll blow my head off before pay-per-view exists in this world!”

The Lamia Archmage threw up her hands.

“Fine! We won’t do it! It was just an idea! Why is this such a problem anyways? Dead gods!”

She slithered away in a huff as Aaron relaxed. If this wasn’t the most important thing in the world, well, you had to have standards.

Exciting times.



—-



Angry [High Kings]. A worldwide broadcast. The ethics of television. All of this was happening, and the day was starting. But while all of it was happening elsewhere, with a remove of thousands of miles in some cases, it was all connected.

This world was slowly creating a web. Like Earth, people had discovered a way to influence each other even from incredible removes. It was true that a butterfly flapping its wings might have caused an earthquake before, but now the butterfly flapping its wings was captured in prime-time television with commentary and analysis on exactly how many earthquakes it was supposed to generate.

Was it good? Bad? It was happening either way. But Teresa Atwood couldn’t see the invisible lines being drawn across the world. As she woke up and stretched, exiting her private tent, she looked around in the King of Destruction’s camp. And her mind was focused on only one thing.

“Gnolls.”

Teresa, or Teres as she preferred to be called, walked through the King of Destruction’s camp the day after he’d slain a pack of Manticores. She yawned in the early morning, and looked around on a familiar sight.

Sixty thousand [Soldiers] were already disassembling the camp. Teres felt a bit guilty as she saw a group of [Soldiers] moving to her tent, but it was their job and she was rubbish at it herself. As always, the tidiness and efficiency of the entire camp astounded her.

But then—the army was being led by Orthenon and Flos Reimarch, both of whom had lived at least half of their lives on campaign. They could set up a defensible camp and all the necessary things in it from latrines to sentries in their sleep. Teres was learning some of the job, but Orthenon didn’t have time to teach her, and he had told her outright that she was to be the King of Destruction’s bodyguard, not a [Commander.]

That suited Teres just fine. She liked Orthenon. She had a thing for him, as Trey would put it, but it wasn’t a mad crush as Trey assumed. She just liked…Orthenon. He was terrifyingly dangerous at times, but he was also devoted to his [King].

And he had a sense of humor. He laughed, even told jokes. But in his way. He put on a front, and that was because he was literally second to Flos Reimarch, even more so than the King’s Seven. Teres respected Orthenon a lot. Plus, to be fair—he was amazingly handsome. Every little bit helped.

“Good morning, Lady Atwood. His Majesty’s not up yet.”

One of the army [Cooks] greeted Teres. She received her breakfast with anticipation. There was no bowl of stew or some horrible food like the armies during the Great War had, like bread made out of turnip flour. Rather, Teres had a full meal, courtesy of bags of holding and preservation spells.

It was still not gourmet food, and made for mass-consumption but Teres had hot, chewy flatbread, one of those Yellat-curries that were so beloved around here, and a steak with gravy. She stared at the steak.

“We’ve got thinner slice if you want, or other cuts of meat. Anything you wish, Lady Atwood.”

The [Cook] misinterpreted Teres’ look. She shook her head.

“This is more Manticore meat?”

The Stitch-Woman grinned. She was of the Hemp class, so her skin was rough, but she had a wonderful smile and she seemed genuinely happy to be serving food to Teres, let alone Flos himself.

“Of course! His Majesty slew enough for the next week of meat meals! And left a lot for those Belchan bastards to take. Are you a steak girl?”

“I am now. Is Fl—his Majesty really not up? Normally he’s up at the crack of dawn.”

Other people got touchy about Teres using his name. The [Cook] frowned and glanced over to one of the larger tents.

“No, Lady Atwood. But I hear Lady Mars and some of the Nomads were drinking with his Majesty, celebrating the newcomers.”

“Oh. That would explain it.”

Teres cut off a soft bit of the steak as she held her plate. It was tender. Manticore meat didn’t taste like chicken or beef, incidentally. It did have a gamey taste, but Manticores were magic, and magic was a taste, like umami. Plus, the sauce was great. Teres swallowed and saw the [Cook] looking to the side.

“Are the Gnolls up, yet?”

“No sign of ‘em. They’re all asleep, or staying in their tents.”

The Stitch-Woman grimaced and Teres didn’t miss the gesture.

“Something wrong with the Gnolls?”

Gnolls. Teres longed to see them, but they were indeed inside the tents. She’d gotten a good look at them up close and she had not been disappointed. Gnolls were—

Well, tall! Males and females were the same height—which was taller than most Humans by default! They were furry, with hair ranging from blonde to black, sometimes into red, but usually around brown, and they had heavier forms than most Humans. Not from fat either; they were like hyena-people if you had to relate them to any animal.

But the children were so adorable! Teres had seen some scampering around on all fours and only her sense that it was not a good idea to go and try to pet or pick one up—gotten from Garuda chicks and an incident with Takhatres being very upset—had stopped her.

She’d watched as they’d greeted Flos, but she hadn’t gotten a chance to learn much about them other than asking everyone in sight what Gnolls were like. The entire tribe of two thousand—and the Lizardfolk—had gone into their tents almost directly after eating.

They had been worn down from so many miles of travel. Apparently, they’d marched day and night to catch Flos before he started heading south and so the King of Destruction had ordered an audience to be held tomorrow. Now, Teres glanced at the camp. She saw a few of the Lizardfolk out and about—they were chatting to the [Soldiers] or other new recruits to the King of Destruction’s camp, looking very chipper. They were a social people.

But both the Lizardfolk and Gnolls were getting the stink eye from the [Cook]. Teres asked why and the woman leaned over.

“If they’re here to leech from his Majesty…I came from Nerrhavia’s Fallen myself, Lady Atwood. Short trip, no troubles. Some of the others who claim his Majesty’s grace, though—they’re criminals, or people trying to take his goodwill. His Majesty is generous. Too generous to some! I don’t know if you’ve heard, but Lord Orthenon and the others have had to deal with troublemakers in the new cities and settlements. Of course, Lord Orthenon gets rid of it the moment he appears, but…here’s two species who don’t belong to Chandrar.”

She nodded at the Gnoll tents and Lizardfolk. Teres blinked.

“But they could just be refugees.”

“Perhaps. But you hear about Lizardfolk and light fingers. As for Gnolls—half-wild. Strange folk, who raid and fight with Drakes. You know Drakes?”

“Vaguely. I saw the battle in Pallass.”

“They live in Izril. Very strange. But they’re descended from Dragons and that says enough. Warlike—and the Gnolls are the savages. Just you watch out for his Majesty, Lady Atwood. You and Lord Atwood and his Seven have to stay his mercy.”

Teres and Trey’s reputation among the King of Destruction’s people had solidified into them being something of advisors and aides to Flos, which wasn’t far off from the truth. Teres smiled a bit wanly.

“What about his wrath?”

The [Cook] clicked her tongue in dismay.

“His wrath? Even if this lot spat in his face he’d not but send them off with some gold and bread! Leave his wrath for his enemies. And that’s rare enough too. His Majesty laughs at enemy [Generals] most often. Have you seen him furious, Lady Atwood?”

“Only once or twice.”

Teres murmured. She remembered Flos after receiving Drevish’s head. Then she’d been afraid of him. The [Cook] nodded.

“When he wakes, no doubt we’ll see what these furry folk are made of. In the meantime–”

Some of the Lizardfolk were coming out of their tents for food. The [Cook] bade Teres farewell with a grimace.

Teres went off to have breakfast. She was just cleaning her plate with a last bit of bread and wondering if there had been too much steak for breakfast—although she’d actually lost a lot of weight since coming to this world—when Teres saw a commotion around the outer area of the camp.

This was not the [Soldier]’s section, but rather, an increasingly large area devoted to people who had come to enlist in Flos’ army, young people, old—not just caravans from afar, but people from Jecrass who had seen him passing by.

Most were just young glory seekers, and Teres had heard Mars and Orthenon both agreeing that it would be a surprise if a third of them stayed after a week of marching in the army. Still—even that would be a substantial addition.

And the armies of Reim kept growing with more and more of the King of Destruction’s people. Flos did not lack for an army; he only needed a high-level one, and the resources and arms to equip them.

However, sometimes his fame attracted trouble, as in this case. The [Soldiers] around the inner camp which Teres, Flos’ elites, and the Gnolls themselves were camped were holding back a crowd demanding to see the King of Destruction. That was common enough. What was uncommon was the strident voice and the young woman who’d forced herself nearly into the inner camp. Teres wandered over as she saw a tall young woman with a rapier of some kind arguing with a [Captain].

“I wish to have an audience with the King of Destruction! I’ve come from Jecrass—”

“His Majesty does not answer to you!”

The [Captain] snapped back. He was another Stitch-person, again of the Hemp class. Teres thought the young woman was brave or foolhardy to be arguing with him; she’d seen Stitch-people fighting and they weren’t afraid of most edged weapons; they could just sew their limbs back on.

“Lady Atwood, hold back, please.”

One of the [Soldiers] recognized Teres. She nodded and the young woman blinked at Teres. She noticed the slightly curved sword Teres wore at her hip.

“You there! Are you one of the King of Destruction’s vassals? If so, I challenge you for permission to enter the camp!”

“Challenge?”

Teres blinked, but the [Soldiers] laughed, including the [Captain].

“This isn’t Terandria, whoever you are! Challenges aren’t laid about for the right to see King Reimarch! Back away, all of you!”

He lifted the halberd and the people behind the young woman moved back a step. She flushed, but refused to budge. She pointed at Teres.

“Are the King of Destruction’s vassals afraid of a challenge? I heard he once entertained anyone who could make their way to him, even blade in hand!”

The [Captain] glared, but before he could reply, someone stumbled out of her tent.

“What’s this? Who’s shouting? Who am I killing?”

A bleary voice interrupted the argument. Teres turned and saw a beautiful, red-haired woman stumbling out of her tent. Her hair was long, and her skin as perfect as a Stitch-Woman made of silk. Her eyes were green, and the armor she wore was magnificent—but almost decorative. The breastplate was practically molded around her chest.

Mars the Illusionist was stunning to anyone who beheld her. But Teres was more impressed that the illusion actually captured her haggard appearance—on her illusionary body. She had red eyes and her wondrous hair was frazzled.

However, it was all fake. Mars wasn’t that tall, she was definitely wearing armor, and she had once told Teres that free-flowing long hair was the dumbest idea imaginable in a battle where it would catch on something. In truth, Mars never left her armor. What made her appear as a beautiful woman—in this case, with dusky skin, and a voice that belonged to a singer—was always her illusions. She changed appearances like Teres changed clothes.

Even so, the [Soldiers], people here to see Flos, and Teres all had to pause for a second with envy or admiration. An illusion should not be that perfect. Mars, stumbling out of her tent with a hangover was still…

“Hold on. I think I’m going to throw up.”

The woman paused, put her hands on her thighs, and breathed in for a second. Then she looked around.

“Hey there, Teres. What’s going on?”

She walked over, regaining some of her color as she drew a potion from her belt and drank it. Teres pointed wordlessly; the [Soldiers] and crowd had fallen silent.

Here was one of the King of Destruction’s vassals. Mars smiled, her eyes lighting up as she saw the crowd.

“Oho! More people come to see his Majesty? Did I hear someone yell about a duel?”

By way of answer, all the [Soldiers] and the [Captain] pointed to the young woman with the rapier. She bowed, respectfully. Mars was hardly Orthenon or Gazi, who had a presence and always their own source of dignity.

But then again—Mars didn’t need that. She was the King’s Champion, a [Vanguard] who stood at the head of every battle. Teres had seen her fight a few times, and nothing had ever even seemed to slow Mars the Illusionist when she charged.

“She rode in fast, Lady Mars. And she’s demanding to see his Majesty, along with the others. She asked Lady Atwood for a duel.”

“A duel? Reminds me of the old days! A few people used to meet my lord that way—I think Orthenon did it! Fought his way past everyone and he and I were going at it when his Majesty wanted to see what the fuss was!”

Mars chuckled as she cracked her neck. She eyed Teres, a glint of amusement in her eyes. Mars was like an older sister in how she treated Teres and Trey. One who would also hand them a jug of wine if they so much as coughed.

“How about it, Teres? Want to duel? Then again—”

She eyed the young woman and then Teres.

“—Better not. Orthenon hasn’t gotten you up to par yet with your sword training. And his Majesty would kill me if you got stabbed.”

Teres blushed as all the other eyes turned to her. The young woman with the rapier gaped at the mention of the King’s Steward. Teres wanted to deny Mars, but the [Vanguard] was looking the young woman up and down. Which probably meant she wasn’t a nobody.

“No one sees his Majesty.”

The [Captain] declared, trying to take control of the situation. Mars folded her arms, smiling. And the young woman, breathing heavily, hesitated—and then pointed at Mars.

“Mars the Illusionist! I—I challenge you to a duel! If I duel you for a minute, allow me to see his Majesty!”

The crowd and [Soldiers] fell silent. Teres blinked. Then the [Soldiers] all erupted into gales of laughter. The young woman turned even redder, but Mars just threw back her head and guffawed for a second. Then she waved for silence.

“Quiet, you lot! Quiet!”

Her words silenced the [Soldiers]. Teres saw more of the camp not at work drifting over. Mars stood with the dry wind blowing her hair. And when she smiled, head tilted just so, she looked like a hero out of the stories, real enough to stand with the King of Destruction. Everyone stared at her as she looked at the young woman.

“Sounds like fun. Alright, go ahead.”

“Lady Mars!”

The [Captain] shut up as Mars looked at him.

“In the old days, anyone who could defeat the King of Destruction’s vassals or even give us a worthy fight was allowed to see my lord Flos. Let’s give her a chance. For the old days.”

There was an excited murmur. The young woman flushed with anticipation as everyone backed up. She reached for her foil—

And then looked up.

Mars with her illusion was tall, and she strode over to the young woman. She smiled down at her.

“But you will be fighting me. For one minute. Do you know who I am?”

She raised one fist, clenching it. And the [Soldiers] and crowd shouted.

“Mars the Illusionist!”

The thunderous cheer roused the rest of the camp. A huge crowd was drawn in moments, and the two women stood in the circle. Mars winced, rubbing at her head, and the young woman breathed heavily, taking a stance. She aimed the tip of her blade at Mars’ chest.

“I know who you are. Draw your blade, Illusionist.”

She had a different style than the one Orthenon had taught Teres. The young woman saw the rapier—a [Fencer]’s distinctive stance. But Mars refused to go for the sword and shield she carried. She eyed the blade the young woman had and smiled.

“Ah. Enchanted foil. Nice for duels. But sort of shit in war, right? Go on.”

She beckoned, yawning with the other hand. The young woman flushed.

“Draw your weapon! I won’t attack an unarmed foe!”

Mars laughed.

“It’s the one chance you’ll get! Do you think we’re on the same level, kid? Come at me! And tell me your name! I am Mars the Illusionist! You can’t scratch me with—”

Mars’ head blurred as the young woman stepped in. She was fast! Teres barely saw her, even with her training. The foil struck straight at Mars’ apparently unguarded shoulder; the armor was literally a breastplate, not actual plate.

But the [Vanguard] dodged. She moved back so fast that Teres didn’t see her. The young woman missed, and leapt backwards in a moment. Mars laughed as the crowd gasped.

“Not bad. A [Fencer]! And I see your silver bell.”

She pointed, and Teres heard a chime now, in the silence. The young woman had a silver bell on her foil. Orthenon had told her that the [Duelists] and [Fencers] of Terandria had bells they used as ways of showing their prowess. He’d told her to avoid anyone with a bell in the battlefield.

“Draw your blade!”

“Make me.”

Mars taunted the young woman. Teres saw the [Fencer]’s eyes narrow. She shifted and Teres saw she was about to lunge.

“My name is Jecaina of Jecrass! I am—”

She nearly bit her tongue as Mars charged her. The [Fencer] dashed left in a blur, then leapt forwards. A lunge aimed at Mars’ heart. And the [Vanguard]—

Caught the blade barehanded. She yanked the foil out of the way as it skidded across the armored belly. Jecaina’s eyes went wide and she tried to let go of her blade and dash backwards again. Too slow.

“Headbutt!”

Mars slammed her head forwards. The shout and impact were one sound. Teres heard a thud, and winced as Jecaina dropped like a log. She sprawled over, face-first and Mars tossed the blade onto the ground. Then she raised her arm.

There was a pause at the sudden end. And then a cheer.

“Mars! Mars!”

The [Soldiers] and crowd roared her name. Teres thought it was a bit of a cheap shot, but the [Vanguard] had effortlessly defeated the young woman who—Teres was willing to admit—was better than she was. Mars laughed as she walked over to Teres. She shook her head and jerked a thumb at the unconscious girl.

“Rookies. Shout and they freeze up. And most [Fencers] forget you can use your head or anything you want in an actual fight.”

“Is that fair when you’re actually wearing a helmet?”

Teres stared at Mars. The [Vanguard] laughed. She winked at Teres and turned back to the crowd.

“Wouldn’t have made a difference. Alright, someone dump her outside the camp when she wakes up! Tell whoever’s making a fuss that they can see his Majesty if they beat me in a duel!”

She spread her arms as she laughed loudly. Faced with that, the other eager people demanding to see Flos decided they could wait.

“That was a good way to wake up! I’m off to find something to eat. Any Manticore left? Let me know when his Majesty wakes up. I think I drank an entire amphora or two—and he had just as much!”

Mars walked off. Teres shook her head; she doubted Flos would be long in waking up with as much noise as Mars had made. Indeed, some furry heads were poking out of the tents. And the Lizardfolk had already been part of the crowd cheering in the short duel.

Teres was about to talk with them—until she saw a familiar person stalking across the camp, a roll of parchment in hand. Teres changed course and found a young woman with a veil, sitting and sketching as she scowled about her.

“Nawalishifra.”

The [Blacksmith] looked up with a start. Nawal glared for a second, and then dipped her head.

“Greetings to you, Teresa Atwood.”

She didn’t call Teresa, ‘Lady Atwood’, nor did she seem especially pleased to see her. Teres wondered if Nawal would have snapped at Trey. Probably. She was a prickly person. Teres nodded.

“Morning, Nawal. What are you doing?”

The [Blacksmith] had come with Flos on his march north, and Teres hadn’t asked why yet. Nawal was not her friend; Trey seemed to get along with her, but he could tolerate the [Blacksmith]. Nawal’s sharp tongue got on Teres’ nerves. She didn’t know why Trey could stand to be insulted every two seconds.

“I am designing a weapon for his Majesty, Teresa Atwood. And it is not an easy task, sands take my hands! Especially when one blocks the light!”

Case in point. Teres scowled—and then realized she was casting a shadow. Even so. She shifted and Nawal grunted. She resumed her work, with a long bit of charcoal.

“So you came with the camp to design a weapon? The Naq-Alrama blade, right? I thought you were already making it? Why do you need to follow Flos around?”

The look the young woman gave Teres nearly made Teres want to kick the parchment out of Nawal’s hands. The [Blacksmith] adjusted her veil and scowled.

“Is a piece of art something that can be made in a day? Should I lay a piece of metal on the anvil and beat at it until something proper emerges? A blade suits the owner! And this blade will be made for the King of Destruction’s hands, not forged with no idea of who will wear it! I have been observing, you rude foreign goat, you!”

Teres glared back.

“I’m trying to be nice! What’s the problem? Flos told you he wants a longsword.”

“Hah! If you understood anything about forging for a warrior—”

“Ah, Teresa! There you are!”

A booming voice silenced the argument. And indeed, the camp. Teres turned—and realized Flos Reimarch was awake.

He strode towards her, a plate of food in hand. But where he walked, gravity seemed to twist and people were drawn about him. Servants, his vassals—Teres saw Jelaim, leader of the Serpent Hunters, Mars, two [Mages] from Parasol Stroll, and of course, Orthenon, all following the King of Destruction.

He took no notice of his escorts. It was as natural as breathing for him. He had eyes only for Teres and Nawal.

The [Blacksmith] froze, turning dead white under her dark skin. She adjusted her veil hurriedly and stood to bow. Teres just waved.

“Good morning.”

“And a fine morning it is to you! Although I have a terrible headache from last night. No, Orthenon, don’t waste a potion on me! I’m only sorry I missed the morning’s duel!”

Flos laughed as he took a bite of his breakfast, the same as the rest of the camp had eaten. He enjoyed a [Soldier]’s meal, well, at least of this quality. Teres saw him look around.

“Ah. There’s nothing like a battle to wake you up in the morning. And we still have Manticore meat! Delicious! Are you sure we couldn’t have ridden one, Orthenon?”

The [Steward] was pocketing the potion he’d been offering his [King]. He spoke quietly and precisely, bowing slightly as he did.

“Your Majesty, Manticores are notoriously hard to control. Moreover, they have difficulty flying as far as you might wish. If you wish, we could attempt to tame them—”

Flos waved a hand.

“No, no. I like Griffins and Wyverns more. If you have the chance, get me some of them. They’re probably worse than Nightsteeds to ride, but the oasis you don’t know always looks better than the one you do, eh? Teres, how would you word that where you come from?”

He turned to Teres, eagerly. And she felt that surreal feeling—the [King] was including her in everything. His Seven, the leaders of his army—and she was always with him. Nawal gave Teres a wide-eyed stare as the young woman fumbled for an appropriate expression from Earth.

“…The grass is always greener on the other side?”

Flos threw back his head and barked a laugh.

“Hah! That’s far too mundane. How disappointing.”

He paused to take another bite.

“And Nawalishifra, I greet you.”

“I greet you, King of Destruction.”

The young woman practically folded herself over. Flos saw the parchment she was drawing on.

“Ah, my Naq-Alrama weapon! I regret that I asked you to make so many steel blades so that they could be enchanted.”

“It was my privilege, your exalted Majesty. And the Naq-Alrama steel requires the right positioning of the moons to be forged. It will take long, but I am designing one to fit your hands, if you will allow this humble [Smith] to follow you about.”

Flos nodded.

“Custom-made. I’ve had a few blades made, but I heard Tannousin smiths forge to the wielder. What did you have in mind? Orthenon, is there anywhere to sit?”

“At once, sire.”

Teres saw chairs appear as if by magic. There was even one for Nawal and her as Flos sat, breakfasting with good humor. Nawal declined to sit; she stood before the King of Destruction, nervous as could be. She gave him no rough side of her tongue.

“What needs to be decided for my weapon, Nawalishifra? Ask any questions you may have; the Gnolls are still rising. Orthenon, prevail on their Chieftain to wait if he is awake.”

The [Steward] vanished as Nawal stammered a reply.

“Your exaltedness, I have been considering the best form for the Naq-Alrama steel. There are many forms your weapon may take, and not just a blade. I had considered a hammer, or a longer weapon—”

Flos interrupted her with a shake of his head.

“No hammers. What sort of [King] wields a hammer? Far too unwieldy. I prefer swords. Polearms are too long in the fray of things, and axes—well, I know swords. Isn’t a normal longsword good enough?”

He looked at Nawal. She caught herself—even her awe over the King of Destruction couldn’t diminish her pride as a [Blacksmith].

“The process, it is not that simple. It is about weight, and durability, your great and terrible Majesty.”

Flos frowned, and Nawal went silent at once. The [King] raised one hand.

“Call me King Reimarch if you must, Nawalishifra Tannousin. Or ‘your Majesty’ will do. No other titles. What is this about durability? I thought Naq-Alrama steel…tell me.”

She bowed again. Teres settled back, listening as Nawal collected her thoughts.

“I regret that I am an unworthy [Smith], but I must tell your Highness of the blade I am attempting to make. I will forge it true of Naq-Alrama steel, without alloy or infusion of other metals. However, even Naq-Alrama steel has limits, your Majesty. And—I am sure you know of its qualities?”

Flos’ eyes glittered as he took another bite. He chewed and swallowed, nodding.

“Near-unbreakable durability, the ability to hold magic and the innate power to pierce magical enchantments? The metal unworked turns solid in the daylight, doesn’t it? Which is why it’s so hard to forge.”

Teres thought that all sounded fantastical, like a mithril-sword or something. Jelaim looked frankly jealous; the Serpent Hunter loved magical swords, like the scimitars he wore on either hip. Nawal nodded slowly.

“Among other things, your Majesty. I am not able to share the secrets of my clan even to one as great as you, but Naq-Alrama steel may sustain an elephant’s weight without bending, may cut spells like water, and yes, the forging takes many, many days of work, even weeks! It is a process known only to Clan Tannousin and few others.”

“So? What is the problem? A longsword, even one without embellishment, will suit me fine. I often use my other hand for shields and so on, you see. Which reminds me—I tried the one we gathered from Hellios, Mars. I don’t care for it.”

Flos turned in his chair and addressed Mars, who was sitting next to him and drinking what was…probably…water. Mars raised her brows.

“What’s the matter, my lord?”

“It creates this—here, where is it?”

A shield appeared in the hand of one of Flos’ vassals. He lifted it, and Teres saw a white shield, and silvery metal traced in a tree-like pattern rising along it. Flos had used it in his battle, but now he raised it.

“The defensive enchantment. It stopped the Manticore well, but the activation—well, here.”

He struck a blow against the shield with his fist and it rang like a gong. Teres saw the shield glow. It flashed—and Teres ducked a burst of light. Flos had leaned out of the way, aiming the shield up.

Nawal was already on the ground. The burst of power from the shield shot into the sky, and it would have blown apart anything it hit. It had certainly sent a Manticore reeling the other day.

As if nothing had happened, Flos handed the shield back to an attendant.

“You see? Too slow a reaction. Do we have any Everfire Shields? Those are simple, but nice. The flame sticks to whatever it hits for a while, Teres. Just ram your opponent if your sword can’t get through their defenses!”

“I’ll lend you one from my armory.”

Mars laughed. The shield was taken away and Flos turned back to Nawal with ease.

“I’m sorry, as you were saying, Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin?”

The young woman was picking dust out of her veil. With anyone else, Teres bet she’d explode. But she only bowed hurriedly.

“It is true that an Oliphant’s weight cannot bend Naq-Alrama steel, your Majesty. However…Naq-Alrama steel is one thing. When it breaks, it shatters. Any force less than that which would break it will not move the metal. But I fear your Majesty might shatter an ill-designed blade in time.”

Teres blinked. Shatter? Nawal seemed to draw in on herself at the suggestion as Flos stared. Mars raised her brows, but the King of Destruction did not erupt in wrath at the thought that his costly blade might break. He just laughed. He did indeed rage seldom.

“You see? That is the mark of a good [Blacksmith], Teres. I didn’t think of that, Nawalishifra! But you’re right. You’ll have to compensate for my strength, eh? But could I break a Naq-Alrama blade?”

He looked delighted at the suggestion. Mars murmured as she looked at Nawal.

“You bend steel or shatter it with regular swords, my lord. And you’ve broken lesser enchantments.”

“True!”

“It is not just that, Great King. I fear many blades do not use your full power.”

Nawal spoke, bowing. Flos sat up.

“That sounds like flattery, Nawalishifra. But go on.”

“No flattery, sire!”

The [Smith] hurriedly raised her head. She gestured, showing Flos her diagram and Teres saw that Nawal had been sketching different blade shapes.

“Normally, blades are light. A few pounds at most. Never more than five, really. Heavy is useless. However, with Skills, a [Warrior] may swing around even heavy weapons like twigs, would he not? And a great beast, like the Manticores, they laugh at light weapons. So, a wise [Smith] forges to the wielder.”

Flos nodded, now intrigued. His hand opened and closed as he gestured.

“Like a hammer that weighs thirty pounds on one end. I’ve seen [Warriors] who can swing it fast as a quarterstaff. But I’m not that quick.”

“No, but this Naq-Alrama blade, it may be fifteen pounds, your Majesty.”

“Fifteen—”

Teres was astonished. Her blade was light! But fifteen pounds? Everyone but Mars and Flos looked askance at the idea. The King of Destruction frowned.

“That’s a bit cumbersome, isn’t it? If I wanted a blade for one of my Nomads of the Sky, I’d ask that. But for me? Fifteen pounds is surely far too heavy unless I’m using that hammer or something.”

He gestured at one of the half-Giants, looming over the rest of the camp. Nawalishifra bowed.

“But if the blade were perfectly balanced, your Majesty? I believe you do not know your own strength.”

That came out in a rush. Flos’ brows rose as Mars laughed in delight.

“Hm. Well now. Ulyse!”

He raised his voice. One of the [Mages] in the camp strode over at once. Flos stood.

“I need a training sword, or a regular blade. Ulyse, can you enchant it to be exactly fifteen pounds? I want to test Nawal’s theory.”

“Of course, your Majesty.”

Ulyse raised his staff as a sword appeared. It was rather miraculous how Flos could shout and get anything he wanted, almost instantly. Teres saw the leader of Parasol Stroll run his staff along the blade.

“[Leaden Weight].”

It didn’t flash or glow, but the servant carrying it dipped slightly under the weight and struggled to lift it with both palms. Flos plucked the blade up. He tried an experimental slash and blinked.

“Well, it is heavier, but I don’t seem to be slowed down too much. Not at all, really. I suppose I’ve never thought about it. Stand back.”

The others did and he swung the blade around. Teres heard the air whistling. She stared. He wasn’t any slower that she could see!

“Your Majesty! As strong as lions!”

Jelaim laughed with pride and awe. Flos grinned.

“What do you know? It’s not slow at all! And imagine if I hit you with this, Jelaim!”

“My stitches would surely all come out! Lady Mars, can you swing it as fast?”

Mars took the sword. She grunted.

“That is fifteen pounds. Fuck it, I’m not swinging this. I’m not built for strength like my lord. Jelaim, you try.”

She swung the blade once, fast, but clearly not as fast as Flos. Then she tossed the blade at the Stitch-Man.

He had to catch the sword with both hands, stumbling. Jelaim tried a cut, his muscles bulging, but he couldn’t get anywhere near a proper slash.

“Too much weight! The Serpent Hunters dance with blades, not carry them! Lady Atwood!”

He handed Teres the sword, and she took it with two hands.

“It’s—heavy!”

The sword was far too heavy! Teres couldn’t even keep it straight in front of her! But Flos—she stared at him as he took the blade back. The King of Destruction held the enchanted sword of fifteen pounds out with one hand, lightly. Keeping it straight and even, like any good swordsman.

“Your Majesty! You must be strong as a pack of lions! An ox!”

Jelaim was agog. So was Teres, honestly. She hadn’t known how strong Flos was. She looked at Nawal—the [Blacksmith] has a smug look on her face.

“Well spotted, Nawalishifra. And yes, Teres, Jelaim. I am strong. Strong enough that I’ve broken even magical blades not enchanted for durability before.”

Flos tossed the blade to Ulyse. The [Mage] stopped it in midair rather than catch it as he dispelled the enchantment. Flos caught Teres looking at him.

“What? It’s just a Skill, Teres.”

“But even Mars—”

The [Vanguard] paused as she drank. She scowled at Teres.

“I’m strong enough! But my lord is stronger yet. Stronger than all of his Seven, actually. There was a time when Orthenon or I could beat him by strength alone—not anymore.”

All eyes turned to the King of Destruction. He shrugged, lightly.

“I am a [King], Teres. What would I be if I wasn’t strong enough to fight with my champions in battle?”

“But you said you couldn’t beat a Level 30 [Geomancer]! You said you were only as strong as a Gold-rank adventurer!”

The [King] laughed.

“I am. Without artifacts? Any good Gold-rank would tie me up in knots if they prepared well! I can’t deal with illusions well, or dodge [Fireballs] with ease. I hate wall spells, mental attacks—”

“Flying bastards.”

Mars chimed in. Flos nodded.

“—But I am strong. Still, that’s all. Now I have a belt, armor, a shield, a sword, these rings—but I lack for true artifacts. And without such weapons, Mars or Orthenon are still stronger than I. Gazi and Takhatres too.”

He nodded around, and Teres saw some of the others shaking their heads, denying his modesty. Then she heard a sound, a booming voice that made her bones rumble.

“He says that, but he’s stronger than all but a few of the half-Giants, Teres. Ask him why.”

Teres saw a shadow fall across the gathering. And she looked up and up.

And she saw a half-Giant.

Zamea, the Shepherd of the Nomads of the Sky, leader of her group of half-Giants was an absolute unit. And that unit was ten meters high. Thirty feet for anyone with weird metrics. She towered over…everything. Where she walked, the ground trembled. And her voice, even a quiet whisper, was like listening to distant thunder.

“Zamea! Good morning to you!”

Flos laughed and extended his arms in welcome. The half-Giant smiled.

“King of Destruction. I hear we are talking about blades. May I join you?”

She sat, cross-legged, but still rose above the others. Nawal stared up, wide-eyed, and bowed to the half-Giant, as did many others. Flos just laughed.

“You want a blade, Zamea? I won’t pay for one of Naq-Alrama steel for you! But perhaps we can make one like your axes!”

He nodded to her and the half-Giant smiled. Zamea carried a huge, ancient axe made out of steel. Just steel; it was so notched and worn that even with her care, it was old. But who could make a blade for a half-Giant? It was larger than Teres!

“What do we speak about?”

“Strength! Apparently I’m a fair bit stronger than I was when I was young! Could you swing a blade weighing fifteen pounds, Zamea? That’s heavy for the smallfolk.”

The half-Giantess laughed. She was tallest of her kin and her axe, when she drew it, was so heavy no one could lift it, even if they could have somehow managed the huge handle. Flos could push it up with one arm, but he’d have been a literal cartoon, lifting the handle with both arms wrapped around it.

“Weight matters, but there are no half-Giant [Smiths] among the Nomads, King Reimarch! Nor enough ore! But you alone could wield a blade as heavy as we use.”

“Perhaps. Perhaps.”

Flos turned back to Nawal and Teres. This conversation had become a thing. But again, the [King] treated it as if it were a light discussion. He sat back down as Teres pointed at him.

“How are you so strong? [Enhanced Strength]?”

She knew that was a thing. But Flos just shook his head.

“Better. [A Kingdom’s Strength]. A Skill for a [King]. My Level 30 Skill, in fact. I suppose even after my slumber, I’m stronger than I was as a boy. I still see myself as a greater [King], you see. And I’ve leveled.”

He flexed one arm. Teres stared. Nawal bowed.

“Your Majesty, with your permission, I would wish to discover how strong you are. At least so that the blade I forge will not break by your strongest swing.”

“Fair enough, Nawalishifra. I confess—I seldom swing as hard as I can. My strength, you see, is too much for even me. I can tear my own flesh and bone from the impact if the sword twists in my hand. How shall we test my limits?”

Flos grinned. Nawal bowed, and in moments, Flos was calling for a wagon. He was going to lift enchanted swords, and then see if he could lift a wagon one-handed or two, unaided. Then they’d pile weights on and find the limits of his strength.

Teres watched the carnival-like anticipation as Flos’ vassals gathered around and the [King] began to throw or cut with enchanted weapons. He could lift and swing a thirty-pound blade around almost as fast! Nawal was scribbling frantic notes and Teres felt for her.

“Imagine trying to make a blade that won’t break with him.”

“Ah, but most blades are enchanted, little Teres.”

A hill of a woman spoke. Teres jumped and realized Zamea hadn’t moved. She was sitting cross-legged, to avoid stepping on anyone if she rose. She looked down at Teres.

The half-Giant woman was rather like a Human woman, scaled up. But there were significant differences. Her skin was…rugged. Almost closer to something hard, mineral, than flesh. She could have used a few tankers of skin cream. And her eyes were pale orange. She smiled down at Teres.

“Um, good morning, Shepherd Zamea.”

Teres hesitated, but bowed slightly. Zamea was leader of the Nomads of the Sky, and Teres wasn’t sure of her rank, but everyone but Flos’ immediate vassals bowed to her. The half-Giant didn’t nod, but smiled.

“Lady Atwood. Teres Atwood, we have not spoken, the two of us alone. His Majesty tells me you are his trusted follower.”

“Um. Yes?”

Zamea chuckled. Teres was feeling the vibrations of her speech as much as hearing them. She could hear Zamea inhaling and exhaling, come to that. She stared up at Zamea.

“His Majesty tells me you have interesting ideas. More than that, he will not share. But I am curious about you, little Teres of the smallfolk.”

“The what? Oh—is that what half-Giants call others?”

“Indeed. We are the Nomads of the Sky. One of the last colonies of our kind anywhere in this world. And I am the Shepherd of my people. But you have questions. Smallfolk always do. Ask, ask.”

Zamea chuckled. She did not eat or drink, and few of the other tall half-Giants had this morning. Teres had seen them feasting last night on huge portions of Manticore meat, but Flos had mentioned that half-Giants needed to eat once in a fortnight, but when they did, they were ravenous.

“Er—”

“Questions will not offend me, little Teres. Ask. I am told you have amusing questions.”

Zamea leaned down and Teres backed up. Even if she moved slightly towards Teres, the young woman felt as pressured as if Flos were exerting some of his presence on her. She gulped.

“Well—I was asking his Majesty—look, biologically, isn’t it hard for half-Giants to exist? I mean, you must have problems with your spines or…breaking bones when you fall!”

Zamea blinked. Then she chuckled. Flos’ head turned as he lifted a wagon with eight people sitting on it. He grinned and shouted something from afar, but Teres didn’t hear it. Zamea made a gesture and then turned to Teres.

“A fine question! And a curious one. [Mages] ask me that as well. To answer—I see you have an enchanted sword there, young Teres. What enchantment?”

“Just—piercing and toughness. Why?”

Teres drew the blade carefully. It was a good sword. Not a powerful one, but Orthenon wanted her to learn to fight rather than let the blade fight for her. Zamea gestured.

“Thrust it into my arm.”

She put her arm on the ground. Teres recoiled.

“I can’t—”

“Little Teres, you could not cut deep if you tried. Thrust it into my arm. Now.”

The half-Giant’s eyes stared at Teres. Unwillingly, Teres aimed the blade at what she hoped wasn’t an artery or vein and gingerly stabbed. Her sword—slid off Zamea’s skin.

“Harder.”

Teres blinked, then she realigned the blade and tried again. This time she put force behind the stab and it went in—about a few inches.

“Strike!”

Heads turned as Zamea ordered Teres. The girl flinched, then tried a slash with two hands. The sword cut—but it cut barely more than a few inches, again! And Zamea’s arm was massive.

“There.”

Zamea rose. She sat back upright as some of the distant half-Giants who’d camped and slept—on their backs, in the open—called out to her.

“Shepherd! Are you teasing the smallfolk?”

One of the half-Giant’s rumbling voices called across the entire camp. Zamea laughed as Teres turned crimson. She bent back down to Teres after raising one hand. And her eyes were brilliant and huge.

“You see? Half-Giants have skin like armor. Especially those of us whom the blood runs strong in. The Giants of old were said to have armor that even an enchanted battleaxe wouldn’t break. If I fall, Teres, woe to any beneath me or the ground itself. But I will break after mountains do.”

Teres saw that. She stared up at the half-Giant.

“You’re…fairly incredible, Shepherd Zamea.”

The huge woman’s eyes twinkled.

“You think so? Then you have too low expectations by far, Teresa Atwood! You have not seen us fight. But those of us who have come with King Reimarch will fight. When the time comes, we will tear through the smallfolk. Save your awe for that.”

The little speech was accompanied by a smile. And it was not pitiless—but it had a grand and terrible weight to it. Teres shuddered. She had not seen Zamea fight. But the Nomads of the Sky were not all warriors. Only a handful had gone with Flos; the rest were actual [Shepherds], or those with classes suited for travel.

They herded large breeds of regular animals, like sheep. They were still tiny, but nearly three or four times as large as any sheep from Teres’ world. They had feasted on them the day they arrived. To do that, they’d culled the sheep. Zamea had helped, gently breaking sheep’s necks with her fingers.

“You’re not as—as gentle as I thought you might be, Shepherd Zamea. I imagined half-Giants would be…different.”

More like a certain groundskeeper in a magical warding school in Teres’ head. Capable of wrath, but kindly. But Zamea was taller than Hagrid. And—far different. Her smile was kind, but also fearful. And she laughed quietly.

“Gentle? Ah. Some of the tallfolk who walk alone learn that. Gentleness, to avoid scaring the smallfolk around them, lest they gather in fury. But that is not what I am, nor what half-Giants are. Why would we be gentle? Look at us. We are greater than the smallfolk.”

She pointed. And in the distance, Teres saw some of the other half-Giants near Zamea’s size. Some were ‘only’ sixteen feet tall. But they had a separate camp away from the smallfolk, and they were visible from a distance.

A pair of young half-Giants had risen. They were playing a game in the morning. Two of them were laughing and one young twenty-foot male tossed what was a throwing axe for him towards another half-Giant his size. The other caught it without fear; their skin was tough. But no one besides them dared get near.

The sight was terrifying. Teres imagined what would happen if they slipped and the axe went flying towards…well, a smallfolk. She looked at Zamea and saw the half-Giant pointing.

Some other half-Giants were walking around the camp, the shortest ones, who were nine feet or more. And Teres saw what Zamea meant about caution.

They were not careless, but they weren’t careful either. They didn’t walk like a friend Teres had known back home, who was a tall bloke who was always careful about bumping into people. The Nomads of the Sky strode about freely, and people navigated around them with care.

“Sometimes we take in our kin from afar. And they walk like mice. The Nomads must teach them to walk with pride. But then—they believe the lies of the smallfolk. That we are all the same height deep down.”

Zamea sighed. Teres looked up at her and couldn’t help it.

“But we are all like that, aren’t we, Zamea? We’re all people, right?”

The half-Giant stared down at Teres. Then she laughed like slow thunder.

“You do it too. Look at me. Do you say our lives are equal, little Teres?”

She leaned down. Teres was smaller than her head. The half-Giant grinned at Teres, showing huge teeth. Teres tried not to step back.

“We’re not the same. I’m not saying that. But deep down—fundamentally—we’re all people, right?”

She was trying to think of some philosophy, but the huge half-Giant woman was distracting her by being—there. Yet, Teres thought she was right. Each person was a person. You couldn’t measure a soul by appearance. And yet, Zamea chuckled at Teres’ notions.

“Yes. Smallfolk say that. As if there is no difference between us when all else is stripped away. But look—”

She stood. And Teres gazed upwards and the smallfolk in the camp, all of them, stopped and stared. A thirty-foot half-Giant leaned down. And one of her hands plucked Teres off the ground.

“Wait—”

Teres bit off a scream as she rose, incredibly fast. The hand was so gentle—but it held her with absolute control. Zamea lifted Teres up, opened her other palm, and deposited Teres there. She raised her to mouth-level and spoke.

“I am one of the last of my kind. The Nomads are one of the last of the tallfolk, and the most numerous. And we number but hundreds. Look at me. My blood is that of giants. You could walk across the world and find so few like me—while your people are like dust, everywhere. Who is worth more? Who is more significant?”

Just the sight of her mouth opening, the dizzying height, and the tremendous words and rumble made Teres faint. She opened and closed her mouth, pale. This was a child of giants. And Zamea was half—

Imagine what they had been like. Striding across the world. One of them could destroy a city. Teres tried to argue, but her knees shook and she sat down.

Gently, one finger rubbed Teres’ head, like she might rub a little mouse’s head if she had a pet, or a doll. So carefully, as not to break her. Teres cringed as Zamea smiled. And she looked down on Teres.

“We are not equals. The King of Destruction is not equal to you, even reduced to the fact of his life. Some are worth more than others, or else why do we follow one such as him?”

“But…okay. Okay, please put me down?”

Teres whispered. She was afraid. Zamea just smiled.

“And if I do not?”

She put Teres on her shoulder. The young woman grabbed Zamea’s shoulder as the half-Giant began to walk, choosing her steps with care. Teres was white-faced. This was worse than Fetohep taking offense. She felt Zamea moving, was terrified she’d slip and fall and the half-Giant wouldn’t even notice—

“Shepherd.”

A voice came from below. Zamea halted, and Teres saw a familiar shape below.

Mars the Illusionist. She stood with both hands on her hips, grinning up at the Shepherd. Mars wagged a finger as she pointed.

“Shepherd Zamea, you’re scaring our little Teres. Put her down, please. His Majesty will want her as he meets the Gnolls.”

The half-Giant halted. Teres saw her and Mars exchange a glance, and then Zamea smiled.

“Very well, Illusionist. Lady Atwood, I trust you have learned a lesson?”

“Yes.”

Teres whispered as Zamea gently let her climb onto her hand. The half-Giant set her down and Mars caught Teres; the young woman’s legs weren’t working. Zamea crouched.

“You see? Respect for few of the small. Those who walk with giants. Let us talk again, Teresa Atwood. Until that time.”

She rose, as tall as the sky. And then Zamea took a step. Another. And she was gone. Teres looked at Mars.

“His Majesty warned you about tickling other people, Teres. Well, Zamea’s a good sort. But she’s fierce as Orthenon. Here, come with me.”

Mars’ tone was strict, but her hands were gentle. She let Teres sit for a moment.

“She’s so—I just said—”

“She’s a half-Giant. And the leader of her people. She doesn’t play nice. When a nation doesn’t like the Nomads, the half-Giants don’t run away. They fight and walk where they please. Zamea’s like her forebears. That she came for his Majesty means she truly respects him. Now, come on. His Majesty’s with the Rustängmarder, but the furry-folk are up and waiting.”

Mars led Teres to the Rustängmarder. There were only about two hundred of them in Reim total, and eighty had marched with Flos. They had their own tents, their own space in the camp, around Flos’ tent.

They were the ultimate elite soldiers. As feared as the Nomads of the Sky. Their armor was dark black and green. And they wore the full-visored helmets that covered their faces at all times.

Teres might have talked back to Zamea, once. But never to the Rustängmarder. They were men. All men, who enlisted in this army and fought for pay wherever they went.

There was one fact about the Rustängmarder Teres had learned, besides their blank expressions, their perfect discipline and their unwillingness to retreat in front of slaughter. And that was that the Rustängmarder had a leader for each company, a [Commander]. And that commander always had levels in [Necromancer].

The King of Destruction was talking with the commander now. Teres knew him, but she held back. The man leaned against a table as he bowed awkwardly to the King of Destruction.

“It was good to fight alongside you all yesterday. The Rustängmarder’s edge has dulled not one whit. And you, Commander Ytol. You have my gratitude for taking command of my infantry. Venith could only be in so many places at once, and he and Maresar must watch Hellios and Reim in my absence.”

“It was our honor, King Reimarch.”

The man’s voice was quiet. He alone did not wear his helmet; the rest of the Rustängmarder were lined up behind him, standing in perfect rows as they waited for any order. They were like machines. But they were not.

“[Death Soldiers]. Don’t poke fun at them, Teres. Although I doubt you could make them mad, I’d hate to see it. They’re good sports if you want company for a night, though. Brave sad lads. But they’ll find salvation with his Majesty. And I’d trade a hundred regular [Soldiers] for each one of them. Five hundred.”

Mars murmured to Teres as she led her over. Flos was nodding. He looked at the commander, Ytol. And his face was happy…and sorrowful.

“Ah, but you paid a heavy price to come here, Ytol. Were the rest of the Rustängmarder so angered as to demand it?”

He looked heavily at Ytol. And so did Teres. The [Death Commander] smiled. And he tried to bow, but he was unused to the crutch he leaned on. And of course, he had only one side of him to bow.

His right arm was gone. And his right eye. And his right leg. It was not an old injury, either. His limbs had been cut away last month, or so Teres had heard. When his company had marched to join the King of Destruction.

“Half for desertion, my [King]. That is always the price. I was only grateful it was I who bore my company’s sins. Otherwise we could not fight for you.”

The Rustängmarder stood silently behind Ytol. Flos bowed his head.

“But you came for me. And the Rustängmarder sent your company.”

The [Death Commander] shrugged. He had a bleak look in his eyes. Pitiless and empty, but when he looked at the King of Destruction…he smiled. And something in his eyes shifted.

“Desertion is desertion. But I would give up my other half to honor our oath. When our contract ends, we will all come. But it pained us to honor one vow and forsake the other. So. I above others was chosen for the honor.”

“The honor is mine.”

Flos Reimarch bowed slightly. The Rustängmarder moved. Ytol tried to bow lower. Flos Reimarch motioned, and turned to address Orthenon, Mars, Teres, and the others with him.

“We have one army, now. The makings of one that would make other nations tremble. Once, I had many such armies, each more fearsome than the last! I led my own, and each of my Seven had one to command, save for Drevish and Tottenval, and they had armies of [Builders] and [Farmers] in their way. Commander Ytol has my infantry. I have my Nomads and the Rustängmarder to break my foes. Serpent Hunt and Parasol Stroll, four divisions of elites.”

“And Orthenon with his pretty pony [Riders].”

Mars grinned. The [Steward] turned his head and gave her a flat look. The [Vanguard] winked as Flos laughed.

“And Orthenon’s fearsome cavalry, yes, Mars! I did not forget you! But this army—it will do.”

He gestured at the rest of the [Soldiers], who had disassembled all the camp by now.

“My [Soldiers]. Many are low-level. But I will have them all reach Level 10 soon. Just by marching here, they will level. And if I can recreate one of my units—the Ensorcelled Blades, the Mirage of Chandrar, or the Dreamers…”

“Then we could put up a fight.”

Mars agreed, her eyes shining as she shifted from foot to foot. Flos nodded.

“The pieces gather. But as I say, we need more magical arms, more specialized forces. I hope to march north and enter Medain. Mars, Orthenon and I could challenge a dungeon!”

“King Perric will never allow it, your Majesty.”

Orthenon murmured. Flos sighed.

“Well, Nerrhavia. Or—does Hellios have an old dungeon? That’s the easiest way of it. Germina and Hellios had decent artifacts, but I’d rather like a few more treasuries.”

“Just crush a few more kingdoms.”

Mars helpfully suggested. Flos grinned.

“We’ll have to have them declare war first. But that is for the future! I will decide where to march after I meet with our guests. The Gnolls. Are they on their feet, Orthenon? They were half-ragged from marching.”

“Their Chieftain is, my lord. Will you meet him now?”

Flos’ gaze sharpened.

“Yes. Yes, I believe I will. Have him meet me in a proper location. For an audience—Mars, you, of course. A small gathering. And Teres.”

He looked at her. Teres glanced up swiftly.

“You want me, Flos?”

Everyone reacted to her using the name. Orthenon frowned. The Rustängmarder’s heads slowly swiveled around and looked at her. Teres froze. But Flos just laughed.

“Of course! For a moment like this? Come, Teres. I only regret Trey isn’t here. But come. Let us find out why the Gnolls of Izril have come to my banner.”



—-



Teresa Atwood stood in a large tent. Flos Reimarch sat on a throne.

It was a portable throne, but it was still grand. The bags of holding and enchanted wagons could hold a finite number of items, but this was apparently as important as weapons or food.

And perhaps it was. For the King of Destruction had an audience. His vassals, Jelaim, Ulyse, Mars, Orthenon, all of his elite commanders and some of his high-ranking officers stood around the tent, listening to their [King]. Orthenon and Mars stood to either side of the King of Destruction.

And Teres stood next to Mars, on the left of Flos. Closer to the King of Destruction than Mars, in fact. She felt out of place. The air had that feeling to it, of weight. She did not belong. And yet—

She did. Flos wanted her here. And of those present, only she, Mars, and Orthenon gave voice to their thoughts. The rest were silent.

And the King of Destruction sat and looked at the Gnoll standing before him. The Gnoll was not alone; some of the other Chieftains and important Gnolls were gathered in the tent. But the one Gnoll in front, with russet hair and dye that turned the mane of hair around his head paler shades, was the one who spoke and answered.

There were also Lizardpeople standing and looking excitedly around, but they were not the focus. The Gnolls were. Both species had come seeking the King of Destruction’s grace. And found it. But the Gnolls…

Teres had heard the [Cook]’s comments about the Gnolls, but she’d put part of that aside to just distrust of outsiders, like how Nawal didn’t talk to men besides Trey and Flos and a few others. But she saw that estrangement was not limited to just the [Soldiers].

Flos’ vassals eyed the Gnolls warily. Not with fear; never that from Ytol or Jelaim or the others, but with a caution. They did not know these people. They did not know why they were here.

Neither did Flos, it seemed. The King of Destruction was staring at the Gnolls with interest.

“Chieftain Nelrra, of the Dustfur Tribe. I accept your greetings. And I greet the other tribes who have come with you. Lizard-friends of Baleros, you are welcome.”

He nodded to the Lizardfolk. One waved excitedly.

“Greetings, your Majesty! It is an honor to be here!”

Flos smiled.

“I have fought with Lizardfolk before. So I will address your people first. [Swamp Leader] Xeca, why do you come to Reim? Why do you call yourself my people, when you have never lived in Reim?”

The Lizardman who had led the thousands of Lizardfolk through Jecrass bowed slightly. He had a brilliant, rainbow-colored set of scales, minus a few colors, but he was more vibrant than anyone but a Garuda in color. His neck-frills opened slightly as he bowed lower.

“Your Majesty! We came because we wanted to see the King of Destruction ourselves! Baleros is overfull and the jungles flow with blood. And there are flies and swamp monsters. We heard there was work in Reim, that you treated all species fairly! Some of us have come to fight under your banners, or to live here! But mostly—we came here because we wanted to see.”

“See?”

Flos looked at Xeca. The Lizardman nodded.

“Yes. To see the mightiest [King] in the world! That is what they call you! We are all Lizardfolk, Highness. Purely Lizardfolk; not a Naga among us! But I think if we follow you, we can become what we were meant to be.”

“Ah. Curiosity drives you.”

“And ambition. Milord, Lizardfolk are cunning fighters. And their other forms, Naga, Gorgons, Medusae and their other forms are powerful. They might struggle in the sands, but they’ll be an asset when we fight along the coasts.”

Mars murmured. She was nodding as she looked at the Lizardfolk. Some of them were whispering and pointing at her, delighted to be in her presence. They were disarmingly friendly. And yet—Xeca had a gleam in his eyes. And Flos had much the same look.

“I can respect both ambition and curiosity. And Reim will welcome any number of Lizardfolk, [Swamp Leader]. There is no need for me to decide further; your people will have a welcome place in my army. Orthenon, find all those who do not wish to fight a space in my cities. Along the water, I think. But they are welcome indeed.”

“Thank you, sire!”

Xeca bowed and the Lizardfolk burst into an excited chatter. Teres distinctly heard one of them speaking.

“I told you this was a good idea! Wait till I send a [Message] back home—”

“Silence.”

Orthenon spoke, and the Lizardfolk fell silent. They gaped up at him and then bowed and retreated. The [Steward] motioned.

“Chieftain Nelrra, step forwards.”

The Gnoll did so. He knelt, until Flos bade him to rise. The King of Destruction took longer just studying the Gnoll [Chieftain] than he had speaking with the Lizardfolk. When he did speak, it was with a hint of confusion.

“Chieftain Nelrra, you have led three tribes to me. From Izril, which I understand is as far as Baleros. And yet—your presence is more curious than that of the Lizardfolk. They joined my armies in small numbers in my first conquest of Chandrar. I know them, and I even know that I may give some of them what they seek, the opportunity to change their form.”

The Lizardpeople stirred excitedly, but one look from Orthenon quelled them. Flos went on, his head never moving as he stared at Nelrra.

“But the Gnolls of Izril are foreign to me. Not unknown; I have known members of your species. And yet—I never conquered Izril. I have no strong bonds with any one tribe. You are welcome guests of course, but you have come through Jecrass seeking my name. I ask you why.”

The Chieftain paused, and then spoke in a low, growling voice. Teres stared at him, fascinated, as Chieftain Nelrra raised his head and met the King of Destruction’s eyes. It might have been an affront to any other monarch, but the Gnoll met Flos’ gaze steadily.

Pride. The Gnolls were sniffing the air surreptitiously. And they looked weary from their travel. But they stood in front of the King of Destruction with as much pride as the vassals arranged around the room.

“King of Destruction. I speak for the three tribes gathered here. I speak for the Gnolls yet to come, at least those of us whom I know travel for you. We ask to become part of Reim. To be your subjects. We crave the King of Destruction’s protection, and we will fight in your armies. But we desire what we hope you will offer: a place of our own that will be ours forever.”

The Gnolls nodded behind him. Flos’ eyes glittered and he sat up with interest.

“Succinctly put, Chieftain. Before I go further and ask the nature of this desire, let me ask a question first. Why me? I was told the Gnoll tribes stick together in Izril; few leave their homeland. There are more Gnoll [Pirates] on the seas than there are in Chandrar.”

He was asking the question of questions. Why were the Gnolls here? Nelrra bowed his head silently.

“It is true that Gnolls seldom leave our home, King Reimarch. But—the reasoning of our journey is not an easy one, no. May I explain as best I am able? I do not have the manners to speak as one might to a monarch, I regret to say.”

“Speak freely. I have never held grudge nor enmity over titles or address.”

Flos nodded. Nelrra seemed to relax slightly. He bowed his head again.

“To explain then, your Majesty. My tribe is small. We are not a great number; in fact, those you see here are part of three other small tribes all joined together. And we are…tired. That is the best way I can say it, yes?”

He looked behind him for a second and the other two Chieftains, one male, one female, nodded slowly. Flos paused.

“Tired?”

“Yes, King Reimarch. We weary of Izril, of our conflicts with the Drakes.”

A soft growl from the female Chieftain. She bowed, and all eyes turned towards her. Flos looked at Orthenon.

“I did not know the Gnolls and Drakes fought so. I know of their bitter wars in the past, but I thought the Humans of the north and Antinium were enemies enough.”

“Perhaps they are. And perhaps this is peace, your Majesty. But it is a bitter peace and even without war, our species clash.”

Chieftain Nelrra bowed his head. He shook it slightly.

“How can I explain it? Only to say that not all Drake cities fight with the tribes. Some live in harmony, but they are rare indeed. There are City Gnolls who live among the Drakes. And yet—there are no Gnoll cities. The strength of the Gnolls lies in the tribes, who wander Izril’s plains and the continent. And the tribes fight with Drake cities.”

“Land conflicts?”

The Gnolls paused. Nelrra shook his head.

“Not always. We are accused of thievery. We fight each other over feuds and grudges from ages past.”

“Ah. So you come here because you weary of such conflicts. I begin to understand. But such a long ways? Chandrar has its own share of woes. And you know who I am. Reim will not be peaceful.”

The King of Destruction raised both brows, and Nelrra nodded. He had a walking staff; he was apparently a [Shaman] as well as a [Chieftain], and he leaned on that now.

“We know what this journey will bring us, your Majesty. And it has been a long one. More difficult than I expected, and my tribe and I prepared for a painful voyage. And Chandrar is foreign, unfamiliar.”

“Difficult.”

One of the Gnolls murmured. There was a stir from around the tent. They weren’t exactly making friends with that comment, Teres thought. But then she heard a quiet rumble.

Zamea and some of the half-Giants sitting around the tent were laughing. There was a hole open to the skies and Teres caught sight of the Shepherd’s smile. The Gnolls stared up for a moment. Teres felt a chill. They were literally standing in the shadow of giants.

“Zamea, you’re blocking the sun.”

Flos Reimarch smiled. The darkness grew light again. He motioned at Nelrra.

“All you say is true. Chandrar is a harsh land.”

The Chieftain nodded. He went on, staring around. He, like the other Gnolls, had dust in his fur. It had to be hell with all that sand.

“This land grows too hot and too cold by turns, and there is not enough to eat. Water is scarce. And I dislike sand.”

“Because it’s coarse and rough and it gets everywhere?”

Teres couldn’t help it. She really couldn’t. Flos stirred and looked at her.

“Teres.”

She fell silent. Chieftain Nelrra nodded, unsmiling.

“Yes, Miss Human. Especially in the fur. As I say, this land is harsh, and our journey long. But, King of Destruction, we feel it is still better. Because we are so tired of Izril. Even if there is war, even if we must fight, this land of sand could be our home.”

He gestured around.

“It would be better than Izril, even with all I have said, yes? Better than Drakes. King Reimarch, I say to you this: my tribe and I agreed, the other tribes who have come agreed. Better to live with sand in the fur than to fight and clash with an enemy who hates our very existence. Better than to be sold to slavers, or hunted like dogs. We are not dogs.”

His eyes flashed. The King of Destruction went still.

“Of course. Is it that bad on Izril?”

Nelrra shrugged, slowly, then shook his head.

“Perhaps not. But as I say, I am tired of clashing with Drakes. Tired of being told where we can and cannot go. It is not terrible always, sometimes not for long periods. But a small tribe is a target, especially from some Drake cities. We…are too weak to pull ourselves from the pit from which we hang. And too tired, too tired of death to rage against the Drakes like other tribes, like the Woven Bladegrass tribe and others.”

“Tired. I understand, Chieftain Nelrra. So you speak for three tribes. Are there more?”

The [Chieftain] nodded slowly.

“We come to you, dozens of smaller Tribes, and those worn by living in Izril for the hope you will take us under your protection. My group was first, but I know of at least six other tribes making their way to you. Most of them small, like mine. We are willing to work, to serve. But we crave your shield.”

Teres waited, but the King of Destruction didn’t have a quick response. In this moment, he was slow, pondering, and he had the weight of his crown on his head, for all he didn’t wear it.

“I see. Before I respond to you, Chieftain, clarify one thing for me. Again, I ask: why me? Surely there is more bountiful land in Chandrar, or opportunity in Baleros. Again, why the King of Destruction, who would make war?”

The Gnolls stirred. Chieftain Nelrra’s head rose slowly.

“To answer that, King of Destruction? What other nation would welcome Gnolls with open arms? I can think of almost none, and few would allow us the same rights as the native peoples. But Flos Reimarch is different, or so I believed.”

He lifted one paw and pointed. Not at Flos, or Mars, or Orthenon, but at one of the Garuda [Captains] along the wall.

“I heard a rumor, when you first conquered Chandrar and sailed north to Izril. A rumor that you would shelter any species, any people who declared for you. No matter whom they might be. That any species was treated as equals, Selphids, half-breeds, any. Not just treated so; that they could rise to become one of your Seven.”

“Go on.”

The Gnoll bowed his head slightly.

“It is true. I would not have dared it on a rumor, or even a memory. But I had hope. Proof, as did the other Chieftains. The Garuda.”

“Ah.”

The room changed. Flos sighed, and the Garuda [Captain] raised his head. The King of Destruction sighed, slowly. Mars and Orthenon both paused and nodded. Teres didn’t understand.

Flos seemed to sense it. He turned his head and addressed Teres and the room.

“Teres is my aid, Chieftain Nelrra. A companion, but she is as foreign to Chandrar as you. Permit me to explain. Teres, the Garuda are another nomadic species, treated like barbarians by many. Tribal barbarians. The Centaur are a third such race, but they have settled their cities in Baleros, and have a Great Company. The Garuda have few cities like Qualvekkaras; most live in nomadic tribes to this day.”

“And they’re like the Gnolls?”

A light went on inside Teres’ head. Flos Reimarch turned his head.

“So it appears the Gnolls believe. But I wonder if Takhatres would say the same?”

He glanced at his [Captain], but Nelrra went on.

“There is another reason, King Reimarch. You raised not just a Garuda to one of your trusted Seven. But another.”

This time the room fell silent. Mars and Orthenon looked at Flos. And the King of Destruction closed his eyes.

“Of course. Tottenval. My [Gardener].”

Nelrra nodded, cautiously. The air was heavier around Flos. He did not open his eyes.

“He was…Beastkin. But I heard a rumor that he looked…”

The [King] raised a hand. Nelrra felt silent. Flos nodded as he opened his eyes and they were distant, sad.

“He had some Gnollish blood in him, or so he claimed. He was a Beastkin of the Fox Tribe. A gentle, merry soul. A prankster, my old friend. I still owe his people a debt. He died at sea and saved my life.”

No one spoke in the tent. Above, the half-Giants nodded silently. Orthenon and Mars stood heavily, weighed down by the past. At last, Flos spoke.

“So, the Gnolls desire land, is it?”

“A place to call our own. Where we will not be exiled from. Yes, King of Destruction. That is what we ask. We will pay for the land with our blood. We will fight in your armies and defend your kingdom. But we do ask it.”

Cautiously, Nelrra raised his head. The King of Destruction sat there, looking at the Gnolls. Then he nodded. His voice lost its heavy air, and grew…conversational, quicker.

“Hm. I am having trouble deciding on it. Reim has a few oases, but they are only able to sustain so many. Hellios is more plentiful, and Germina is dry. So—Hellios. But it would be easier if I’d conquered Jecrass. They have rivers and plenty, and I think your tribes would enjoy it more. Well, for the future that may be so. But for now? Hellios.”

The Gnolls stirred, uncertainly. Teres felt a flutter in her chest. Flos pondered.

“Land in Hellios, by a river, perhaps. Do you want a castle? I have stone from Hellios in profusion. Reim is already being restored, as are the roads. Germina is constructing two new cities for my people, but castles are simple enough. Drevish—”

He paused, and his face grew still a second. Then he shook his head briskly.

“Ah. Well, I can still have a castle built within a few months. Even if they will be inelegant things compared to his works.”

“A…castle? Your Majesty? I do not understand.”

The Chieftain darted a quick glance at the other Chieftains, his eyes wide. Not daring to, but hoping. And the King of Destruction smiled. He stood from his throne.

“A castle indeed, Chieftain Nelrra. You desire land, but you should have something to defend. Unless Gnolls dislike structures that much? At least a city. I will allow your tribes to pick a spot in Hellios if you desire one; at least for your City Gnolls. Hellios, is, after all, a land of stoneworkers and they can create one quickly.”

The Gnolls in the tent stared. And Flos laughed. He descended the small dais, and approached Nelrra. The Gnoll looked at him; they were of a height. Flos Reimarch spoke.

“You ask for a boon you would pay for. Well, I say it is paid. You have given me a sight I had not dreamed of, Chieftain. Gnolls, who have come to Reim! You crossed an ocean—on a chance, a dream! For your people. I would reward that alone.”

He nodded at the other stunned Gnolls, and his voice rose, growing.

“For your bravery, Chieftain Nelrra of the Dustfur tribe, I will grant your people land. From the stone mountains of Hellios all the way south to Reim! Let no subject of Reim scorn your tribe or raise a hand against them in my kingdom! And—I will ensure this pact lives on longer than my lifespan alone.”

“Your Majesty?”

The Gnoll Chieftain looked unprepared for the sudden turn of events. Teres was staring but—she had expected this from the start. It was only Flos’ deliberations that had thrown her off. The King of Destruction gestured towards the tent flaps.

“The Quarass of Germina is an ally. As is Fetohep of Khelt, to some degree. I will prevail upon both for treaties allowing your tribe and all those who come to me access to Germina’s lands in perpetuity. Both will demand concessions, but they are both immortal rulers. Khelt and Germina will always harbor your people.”

“Your Majesty. You are giving us…land?”

“As much as can be spared. If I take other nations, I will add to them. But yes. Orthenon, bring me my maps! By nightfall, we will find a space for your people. And write your land by treaty and ink and law.”

The King of Destruction smiled. Teres saw the Gnolls staring, some tails beginning to wag. But Nelrra objected.

“Your Majesty. This is a gift too far. We wish to earn our land—”

The other two Chieftains looked like they wanted to kick him if they dared. But Flos just laughed.

“You have brought me a sight I dreamed of, Chieftain! And what is land to one such as I? My favor is not a petty thing, is it? Tell me, Mars, Orthenon! Is this the least of what I offer those who bring me dreams?”

He whirled. And his two vassals smiled. Mars called out, laughing at the Gnoll’s expressions.

“You showered gold on Tottenval for flowers, your Majesty! And he was our Beastkin, Tottenval, the Blooming Plague! You let Drevish build his damn cities like grass across Chandrar! They still stand and we’ll have a demon’s time retaking them.”

Orthenon bowed, smiling slightly in that way that Teres loved.

“Your Majesty once laid coastal roads across the east of Chandrar, from Seilk to Azan-avar. For a [Messenger] boy who ran the entire way through sand to bring you a missive. It still stands to this day, and the nations which trade plentifully now remember you still.”

“Yes! So witness, my vassals! You have heard my proclamation! And Chieftain Nelrra fears I am a petty [King]. But answer me this—will I ever break my word? Will I be forsworn?”

“No!”

The shout came from around the tent. And the half-Giant’s voices made the skies shake. The Gnolls looked around, wide-eyed. And Flos laughed. He raised a hand and all quieted. Then he turned to the Gnoll Chieftain.

“A gift. It is not a petty thing, for all I give it quickly, Chieftain. But I believe, no, I know that your people will answer my gift a hundred times over. Take it, and keep it. What your people dream of should not wait a second longer than this. You have done well.”

The Gnoll Chieftain looked at the King of Destruction. And then he knelt. The other Gnolls did too. Flos grabbed Nelrra’s shoulder and made him stand. He was smiling; some of the Gnolls were overcome, unable to process this. Some didn’t believe.

But they would. Flos was as good as his words, and Orthenon was already bringing up maps, calling for a table. They wouldn’t believe, perhaps, until they were there, staring at the land Flos would give them. Maybe not even for months.

And yet, Teres believed. Because she knew Flos. He loved this, Teres saw. This, even more than he loved war. And he did love war. But he enjoyed seeing people laugh, and smile.



—-



You couldn’t really call it an audience after that. Flos Reimarch certainly abandoned his throne and his vassals, caught up in his wave of ebullience, were more than cordial to the Gnolls.

It was true that where Flos Reimarch led, his people followed. And Chieftain Nelrra’s speech had won over some of the people, especially the Stitch-People of the Hemp class, and the Garuda.

The Lizardfolk too, funnily enough. One of them tried to pat a Gnoll on the head and got a light smack.

The three Chieftains were overwhelmed as Flos, in his way, motioned them over to the map so they could find what parts of Hellios suited them best.

“Queen Calliope and her court will cause a fuss, my lord…”

“Let them. It’s that [Prince]…Siyal, I want to test. Tell him to help settle the Gnoll tribes and let Maresar watch him. Hellios doesn’t need all its land, and I want him to consider my offer. Hm. Do Gnolls like mountains? Hellios has a few, but all you get from them is stone…and some ores.”

“The Stone Spears tribe would have. If they were still…”

One of the Chieftains murmured sadly. Flos was caught between talking with Nelrra as the Gnoll hesitantly pointed out good spots, and asking all the questions Teres had wanted to.

“So, your tribes are small?”

“A few hundred is small, King Reimarch. A few thousand is still small. Larger tribes number in the tens of thousands, some larger still. But there are many such tribes. We are experienced in hunting, gathering as a whole, but each tribe is known for some specialty.”

“The Dustfur tribe gathers a plant in Izril. Its pollen is mildly paralytic, but the plant itself is very useful in a number of aspects. We have brought some to plant.”

“Really?”

Jelaim slid over as fast as possible to Nelrra; the Stitch-Man looked excited at the idea of easy access to a new coating for his blades. Flos was nodding.

“We will see where best your tribes may excel. For now, build and rest. If I could, I would issue another Edict, but—next month. Your tribe looks exhausted, Chieftains. Was the journey truly that arduous?”

The Gnolls nodded. They did not prevaricate or blunt their words, Teres saw. Which of course made Flos like them all the more. The other male Chieftain nodded.

“The journey was hard, King Reimarch. We crossed the sea smoothly, but with some hunger; but since landing, we have had…conflicts.”

“Conflicts? But you were given safe passage.”

“[Bandits] on the road. And some places refused to harbor us. The journey was mostly smooth under your name, but there were setbacks.”

Flos frowned deeply.

“Where did they occur?”

“Mostly after landing. The nation we came to—it was Medain? The [King] did not wish us there long and we had a difficult time gathering supplies. When we came to Jecrass, all was well. Their [King] allowed us supplies and we were escorted.”

“A good land. Many horses.”

The female Chieftain murmured. The other Gnolls agreed. Flos frowned deeply.

“King Raelt is a good man; I have heard his people gave succor to those travelling through. I do owe him my gratitude, and I shall not forget it. There have been incidents from Nerrhavia, but mostly among the Hemp who have left their homes to come to me. But—Medain. I know their [King]…I think. Orthenon, his name?”

“Perric, my lord.”

Flos snapped his fingers.

“Ah, yes. He was a brat when I conquered Chandrar. They say he is a halfway powerful [King], but I wonder. He was an adventurer, wasn’t he?”

“He detests you, milord.”

“He does? Was I particularly vengeful in conquering Medain? No? Well, I assume he has his reasons. But I will demand my people be given respect.”

Flos’ eyes glinted. Then he turned to Teres.

“Teres, come here. Chieftains, this is my companion, Teres. She is not one of my Seven, but her knowledge and perspective entertains me. Teres, I am sure you have questions! Ask! Now, about this river…”

Teres found three tall Gnolls looking down on her. She was tall for her age and gender, but they were Gnolls. The female one growled a greeting and introduced herself.

“I am Lessha, of the Gembows Tribe. I greet you, Lady Teres.”

“Just call me Teres, please. Um…can I ask about your people? I mean, if it’s not offensive.”

The Gnolls smiled, baring their teeth.

“It is better to hear someone asking to ask than not at all. Refreshing. Ask away, Miss Teres. We have many questions of our own.”

Teres found herself asking questions about the Gnolls and reassuring them that Flos was who he said he was—and that they would be safe in Reim as the King of Destruction conferred with the Chieftain by turns. He was distracted, although he had already outlined a large area that would be enough for six tribes. And he still wanted a castle.

“Teres? Teres, come here! Look at this!”

Teres broke off from a discussion with Lessha about Gnoll children and came over. Flos was looking at a scrying orb.

He had two, now, in his immediate possession. The tiny one Gazi had given him, which was the size of a marble, and a much larger hand-mirror you could stare through. Neither was particularly big; scrying devices weren’t actually that great, Teres had learned. You had to calibrate them and they could be defeated any number of ways…

But the world was changing, and Teres began to understand why in that moment. She saw Noass, Sir Relz, and a view of Rhir as the two Drakes commented on the Blighted Kingdom.

Flos just stared.

“Is this…your television, Teres?”

“It—it looks like it! That’s like a news channel. How did…?”

“They’ve been broadcasting it all day, my lord. You were on it yesterday during your fight with the Manticores, but this is different.”

Ulyse offered as he twirled his parasol, looking intrigued. The members of Parasol Stroll had brought it to Flos’ attention. The King of Destruction peered at the mirror, looking confused.

“Ah, so they’re broadcasting sights the world over, eh? Why are those two Drakes talking?”

“Well, they’re commentating. You know, announcing the news? Like news anchors?”

The King of Destruction exhaled.

“You did mention. So that’s what it’s supposed to look like? Hmf, I had imagined it differently. Well, why don’t you hold onto this? Tell me if there’s something of actual interest to see! I care little for seeing Rhir; unless the Demons attack!”

He handed the scrying mirror to Teres. She blinked as Flos went back to the table with the maps on it. She stared at the mirror.

“—truly, awe-inspiring. But then I have a thing for walls, Sir Relz. Now, I think our next broadcast will be of the nation of Ailendamus. Again. But they are a very powerful, very uh, generous nation or so it seems. I believe their [King] is going on a parade of sorts, and one has to see all the grandeurs—”

“I will take it, Lady Atwood.”

Mirin offered quietly. The second-in-command of Parasol Stroll accepted the mirror. Teres wandered back to Flos.

“Castles. Drevish could have made an excellent one, but—Orthenon, do we have some of his older blueprints? His designs? Let’s let the Chieftains look at some. He made hundreds he never built. We may discuss it later. For now—”

Flos was letting the Gnolls communicate the good news to their tribes. They hurried out of the tents and he smiled. Then he turned to Teres.

“Ah, what a glorious day! And to think I had such a poor night!”

“Too much drink, my lord?”

Flos paused. He looked at Teres; the war council was clearing out. It was midday after all and they were in Belchan’s lands. They’d have to go north, or more likely, south, and find another kingdom to bother or enter.

“Slightly that, Teres. Age doesn’t help with celebrations. But I think it was something else. Still, I am in a good mood. You do not look as happy.”

“What? No, I’m fine. I just wish Trey could have seen the Gnolls too. He’d have enjoyed it.”

Teres shifted from foot to foot. Flos smiled.

“Missing your brother, Teres?”

“Just a bit. Are you sure he’ll be fine? You said A’ctelios is messed up.”

Flos had indeed told her about the horrible city carved out of a dead thing. Teres thought it sounded a bit like Cthulhu or something, but—it was probably not. Right? Trey had promised to take videos, anyways. She was also a tiny bit worried about him since he could be a right idiot. But the King of Destruction was reassuringly relaxed.

“Teres, if Gazi and the Quarass cannot keep Trey safe, I doubt I could. Moreover, Trey is a quite diplomatic sort. He’ll keep out of trouble. I would hesitate to send you, though.”

Teres blushed, annoyed because Flos was right. She didn’t like anyone ordering her around, by and large. But her encounter with Fetohep and Zamea had proven that backchat was sometimes unwise.

“Well, he’ll be back in two days, right? He’s on his way back if they did everything well.”

“Indeed. I received a [Message] from the Quarass informing me that Gazi’s eye was healed. Which was magnificent news! We weren’t sure if a powerful healing potion would affect her eye. But the Quarass also mentioned serious complications—well, we shall see.”

Flos shrugged. Teres didn’t like the sound of that, but Trey seemed to be alive, at least. Flos grew pensive and she looked sidelong at him.

“Are you still hung over?”

He started, and then laughed. But his exuberance with the Gnolls had faded remarkably quick. Flos seemed…troubled. He motioned Teres back to the throne and sat down in it, slowly.

“I have been sleeping poorly, Teres. And I do not know why. But something in me told me to come north, rather than anywhere else. I thought yesterday it was to meet my subjects. But I feel that is only part of it.”

“What else is there?”

The King of Destruction paused. He looked at Teres suddenly, and she realized he was serious.

“I do not know. But it is bothering me greatly, Teres. Something is wrong. And before I leave Belchan…”

He paused.

“Strange.”

“What?”

Flos Reimarch stood up. He looked around pensively, and then raised his hand.

“Mars. Orthenon.”

They broke off from their conversations and stepped towards him. Flos Reimarch frowned, and he looked at Teres, and then out towards the camp. She could hear Gnolls howling joyously, a strange sight that made Teres almost smile. But the King of Destruction’s face was suddenly grave.

“I did not hear of any of my people coming through Belchan. Only that Jecrass harbored them well. I wonder. Follow me. I have more questions for Chieftain Nelrra.”



—-



“Two tribes should have come through Belchan. They came from further west, yes? So they would have travelled around Izril that way.”

“That puts them landing around the Claiven Earth, if they took the most direct sea route.”

Orthenon murmured as he traced a line across the map indicating sea routes. Flos Reimarch stood with Chieftain Nelrra, frowning deeply.

“Yes. The half-Elves. They are not my allies either, but I would expect them to show any species courtesy—if not aid. So that would lead both tribes south. Coming through…Belchan. When did you say they departed?”

The Chieftains exchanged glances.

“Around the same time as well, King Reimarch. We had decided to forgo the Meeting of the Tribes.”

“What is that?”

“Ah—the time when Gnolls gather together. Once every decade. But we decided we had little to gain from it. All tribes benefit, but…those who offer more gain more, and we have little to give.”

“I see, I see. But it is passing curious. Few have come by way of Belchan. Zamea, how did your company travel?”

“By way of Nerrhavia. But we came from the east, Lord Reimarch. And no one would trouble the Nomads and the Rustängmarder.”

Flos nodded slowly as the half-Giant replied. He stared at the map.

“If they have made all speed without delay, we should have word of them. They may even be close by. Let us…”

He fell silent as someone strode up to the table where he stood. Flos turned his head.

“Yes?”

“Your Majesty, a [Commander] from Belchan’s army has a message for you to be delivered in person.”

“Ah, Belchan must be restless.”

Flos sighed and rose. The camp of the King of Destruction’s army was ready to march, but he’d delayed their movement to confer with the Gnolls. Now, Teres saw that frown on his head. And he looked north.

The [Commander] waiting for Flos stared as the King of Destruction and his entourage approached. Belchan had shadowed the King of Destruction’s army with a small force of about six thousand. Apparently a large portion of Belchan’s army was doing some war exercises about twenty miles distant, a much larger force than Flos had brought.

Flos was of course, bound by his oath, but this was a political play, a reminder of strength. The King of Destruction did not seem to remember it, though.

“King Reimarch, Prime Minister Lyfelt extends you an invitation to dine with him in his estates, in private company of course. This very night.”

The [Commander] had an invitation in writing. Flos glanced at the scroll as Orthenon accepted it, and turned his head. He smiled, looking at Teres.

“Ah, how kind of the Prime Minister to extend an invitation to one such as me. But I would not wish to take up the good Minister’s valuable time with my trivialities. You may inform Minister Lyfelt that my army will be moving. As soon as I take some of my people on a quick ride.”

The irony in his tone made his vassals stir and laugh. The [Commander] hesitated.

“A…ride, your Majesty?”

“Yes. I believe two Gnolls tribes will be heading south towards me. I will take my people—Orthenon, the cavalry with me. Just, say, two thousand? Prepare horses for Chieftain Nelrra and a few others.”

“As you will it, milord.”

Orthenon bowed. The Belchan [Commander] was not happy.

“Your Majesty, Prime Minister Lyfelt has invited Reim into Belchan’s borders for a specific—”

Mars leaned forwards and he shut up. The Illusionist was grinning. But Flos just raised a hand and smiled.

“I have been invited to Belchan, have I not? I may as well spare the Prime Minister the effort of escorting my subjects. I shall take his generous invitation if I have the time. But for now—let us ride. We will not be gone long. As soon as I find my subjects and return them, my army will be marching south.”

He looked at Teres and she nodded, already looking for her horse. But she didn’t miss Flos’ creased brow. And the way he kept looking around. Searching for something.



—-



In Wistram, the news hit the Academy like a bomb. A literal bomb, like the ones Viltach dreamed of. They weren’t more powerful than some of the spells he knew existed, but anyone could use them. You’d make them, throw them or teleport them at things that needed destruction.

Like the damn Demon King and his armies. Or—A’ctelios Salash. The Shield Kingdom which rots. And yet, today, the news from A’ctelios made Viltach want to smile.

Archmage Viltach sat up. He stared at the [Mage] from his faction who’d burst into the room.

“You’re certain?”

Mage Rievan Forstrom nodded.

“Absolutely, Archmage. A’ctelios claims their leader was assassinated by none other than Gazi Pathseeker and the Quarass of Germina! There was some debate over the exact incident, but—”

He got no further because Viltach shot to his feet. The Human Archmage—one of two of the five Archmages currently controlling Wistram—smiled, feeling a victorious surge in his chest.

“A’ctelios? But this is perfect. Quickly, change the image! No—wait—send a [Message] to those Drakes! And prepare—we must coordinate this properly. Tell Feor and Nailihuaile to meet me now.”

He strode out of his quarters, leaving Rievan behind. The King of Destruction had done it! Viltach had known Flos Reimarch couldn’t keep to his oath. Now, the world would see exactly what sort of man he was.

And when he was forsworn, Reim would die. And that moment would be broadcast the world over.

In high-fidelity definition and sound, of course. Brought to you by Wistram Academy. Buy a scrying artifact today.



—-



Some of them hated him. They hated the King of Destruction, with all of their hearts. He was not universally beloved. He polarized. You hated or loved him.

But you still came to watch. The King of Destruction rode out from his camp; the infantry and bulk of his armies had resettled for a few hours. But two thousand of his [Riders] followed the King of Destruction as he rode north, through Belchan.

The army [Commander] was not happy about it, and nor was Minister Lyfelt himself if the [Messengers] that Orthenon kept swatting away were any indication. But what could they do? Flos had been invited.

And he wanted to find his subjects.

Even so, the small host was almost like a parade in how many people it drew. Because here was Flos Reimarch, the King of Destruction! Orthenon, Mars, both rode in his wake along with Teres, Ulyse, members of Parasol Stroll—

And some of the Gnolls. Chieftain Nelrra was among the [Riders] sitting comfortably on the saddle. That surprised Teres, but Gnolls knew horses fairly well. They just preferred to run since they were good at that too.

But she and he were just barely noticeable additions to the procession. There sat Flos Reimarch, red and gold hair moving in the breeze. Mars the Illusionist, beautiful. Orthenon, gaunt and scowling.

And—the people looked up and saw a myth as tall as the tales they told about the King of Destruction. And all that you laughed at, the stories you thought couldn’t be true—it all became real.

Half-Giants strode along, keeping pace with the trotting horses. Four of them, each nearly as tall as Shepherd Zamea. And she walked next to the King of Destruction. And the smallfolk looked up and remembered that there were Giants.

“Come, Human children! Gather and see!”

Zamea’s voice boomed across the landscape. Belchan was more lush than the southern nations, and greenery sprang from the earth—not in great profusion, but enough to make Teres feel this was a rich land. People stared up as the mighty half-Giant smiled.

“Witness a glory that comes only once a lifetime! The King of Destruction!”

The half-Giants accompanying her roared his name. They drowned out the jeers, the insults of those who had come with hate in their hearts. The cheers too. But the riders began to shout his name—

Until the King of Destruction raised one hand.

“Shepherd Zamea.”

Flos’ voice was quiet, but he somehow spoke over Zamea. And she fell silent. And so did the crowds.

Flos Reimarch turned in his saddle. A huge crowd had come just to see him. The people wanting to enlist, people wanting to see a glimpse of him before he departed. Some jeered. Others might have thrown things if it weren’t for the half-Giants. Belchan’s smaller force was actually having to hold the crowd back.

And the King of Destruction just paused a moment. There he sat. And he looked around and Teres saw his face.

“A glory that comes once in a lifetime? Ah, but Zamea. You remember me of old. How do you say to them that this is Reim’s might? When we number two thousand by horse, not two hundred thousand? When Reim is still small?”

Flos called up at her. The half-Giant smiled.

“You alone make that legend, King Reimarch. And your vassals. Or do you disagree?”

The [King] paused, and he looked at Orthenon and Mars. He smiled slightly.

“No. But I also remember.”

Slowly, he turned his head. And his eyes were distant. He looked at Nelrra, and then ahead. But for a moment, he lingered on the crowd.

“Orthenon. I think your Skill would do. Let us remind these people, Belchan, of what was. They have gathered to see me. So they should see me.”

He looked at his [Steward] and the man bowed.

“By your leave, your Majesty?”

“Yes.”

Orthenon slowly rode ahead. He gestured, and the riders began to trot. The crowd watched, waiting.

Flos rode just behind Orthenon, with Mars and Teres and Nelrra now. He looked at her.

“Orthenon’s Skill? What is that?”

Teres stared at the [Steward]. Flos nodded to the man’s back. Orthenon was moving slower, and his dark steed was snorting. There was stillness about him. He was about to use it.

“I don’t know that I’ve told you the full power of my [Army of the King], Teres. But you know that I have few Skills that I can use. My Skills shake the earth, but I may use them seldomly. I find that inconvenient. Orthenon now—his Skills can be used once a battle, or once a day. And they are less than mine in scope. But…”

There was a word. Orthenon lifted his spear.

“Advance.”

The riders moved. They followed after, and Teres felt her skin chill. The air grew cool. And she felt like someone was riding beside her, invisible. Flos looked at her and his eyes shone.

“This is the power Orthenon wields. My glorious left hand. My [Ruinbringer Steward].”

Orthenon pointed ahead. And his words filled the silence.

“[Vanguard of the King, the Phantom Storm].”

Teres felt a sensation. She glanced sideways and stared. A woman wearing engraved armor rode at her left. It shone with silver and gold, and she carried a mace. Her hair was pale blue.

But she had not been there a moment before. She had ridden out of nowhere. But now more came.

They appeared out of the dust, out of the midst of the living. Riders wearing ghostly armor, becoming realer. The crowd of people stared.

What they saw were people. People, but not of this day and age. Teres knew at once.

They were dead. But they had ridden in this company long ago. Now, they came to life, as real as the others.

She was terrified. Because the woman who rode by her was real. She bowed as Flos rode past her. And the [King] knew her. He nodded once, and rode ahead.

“Thank you, my [Steward].”

Orthenon bowed. And Flos cast a glance backwards. Even the half-Giants were silent. For striding shapes seemed to be following them in the mist. As if more of their kind would step out of the air.

The people of Belchan stared. And the King of Destruction drew a sword. It was base magic. No artifact of old. But he pointed ahead. And his voice echoed.

“Ride with me, Teres. Ride with me, Chieftain Nelrra. For the glory of Reim! What was lost. We are shadows of our glory. And that is ever so.”

He pointed. And they rode. Teres saw Mars calling out to the figures who rode with them. She knew them. And they looked back at her. But they never spoke. And the Illusionist’s face was filled with grief.

The [Riders] seemed to carry a silence with them. And time…Teres found herself riding after the [King]’s back. All who beheld them stared. The living and the dead. And Teres looked at Orthenon’s face as he rode at his [King]’s side.

And she was afraid. Because the [Steward] of the King of Destruction wielded memory like a blade. And it cut all equally deep.



—-



They rode with that ghostly host for a minute, or perhaps an hour. And Teres couldn’t take her eyes off the King of Destruction’s back. He led them at a trot at first, and then faster. A canter, and then a full gallop. The half-Giants began to jog, and their footsteps shook the ground.

There were more of them. But no one spoke a single word. Flos took them down the roads, faster, faster.

And he was using his Skills. The ground began to blur and Teres experienced a dream-like sensation; she was moving too fast for her mind to keep up.

Down the main roads, turning, pausing. The [King] spoke, and people, staring, shook their heads. Some pointed, and he rode on.

He was searching for them. A trace of his people. But though some had seen others passing through, few spoke of those who had gone through Belchan.

And Teres felt it. A terrible feeling, a suspicion written on the King of Destruction’s face. Growing with each passing minute. Then hour.

At last, the King of Destruction halted. And his panting escort saw him turn. Teres couldn’t tell how long they’d travelled, or how far, but the sun was setting. Flos Reimarch stared about. His eyes flashed.

“Where are my people? Find them.”

Orthenon rode forwards, bowing. He shot forwards with a smaller escort. Shepherd Zamea strode over a hill, searching. The host of two thousand began to fragment, as Flos sent his [Riders] out in every direction. Searching for the King of Destruction’s subjects.

They were in Jecrass. [Riders] came back with news of the bands of travellers coming across the border. They were unable to cross, but Flos’ people rushed to meet them, making a beeline for the King of Destruction.

“Your Majesty. We feared to pass through Belchan as much as Medain. Some of those ahead told us this nation offered few escorts, and the people refused to trade. And worse. Perhaps the other tribes went around, to Jecrass or…”

Chieftain Nelrra panted as he let his horse drink and eat a bit. Teres was doing the same. But Flos Reimarch just turned as his [Steward] returned, shaking his head.

“I know they were here. Orthenon! Take your riders and scout yourself, not towards Jecrass, but further into Belchan. Summon all my Garuda in the army—if Takhatres were here—”

Away Orthenon went. But—Flos waited, with growing frustration. It was then that one of the Gnolls began to confer with Nelrra. He approached the [King].

“Your Majesty, we are natural trackers. I have with me my best [Tracker]. She has been unable to pick up a definite scent, but she thinks she has something.”

“Can she locate it?”

“It is too far away, your Majesty. My nose is picking up something, but I am not the most high-level or gifted. Apologies. If I keep scouting, perhaps I may find the scent.”

The female [Tracker] bowed apologetically. Flos stared at her. Then he shook his head.

“No, I have a better idea. What is your name?”

The Gnoll blinked.

“Lykesa, Highness.”

“Is it your will to find your people, Lykesa? Even if it means changing your nature or class?”

She paused, and then nodded. Flos nodded.

“Then kneel. And close your eyes.”

He dismounted. The Gnoll [Tracker] knelt, and Flos put a hand on her shoulder. He looked down at her and then exhaled.

“I name you a [Royal Tracker]. A gift, and perhaps a curse. Your quarry will not be all things, but a [King]’s prey. If you would will it, take the class. And find your kin. Lykesa.”

He pressed down and the Gnoll jerked. For a moment, her eyes rolled up in her head. The other Gnolls caught her before she could sag backwards. Teres saw her limbs move wildly—and then she opened her eyes and refocused.

“I—my class—”

“Did you gain the Skill you needed?”

“Yes.”

The Gnoll rose, wide-eyed. The others were staring at Flos. So was Teres. He turned.

“A royal class is a heavy thing, Lykesa. But the hour grows later and the time is urgent. Find them.”

She nodded and put her nose to the wind. Within a moment she was sniffing, casting about for a far, far distant quarry. Flos looked at Teres.

“My gifts are weighty things, Teres. I do not know subtlety.”

“I have them. Northwest. I smell—Gnolls.”

Lykesa instantly pointed. Flos turned.

“Summon Orthenon!”

A horn blew and a [Message] carried the [Steward] back at a lightning gallop. A mile a minute, or faster. His horse halted and the [Steward] looked at Flos.

“Northwest. Take Lykesa. She will find them. We follow after. Gather the others!”

Flos rode slower as the other distant [Riders] were recalled. The half-Giants strode back towards him. And they travelled north, as the sun continued to set.

They rode for twenty minutes, their tired mounts moving slower. But at the twenty third minute, Teres saw Orthenon riding back towards Flos.

“My [King], we have found something. However—”

The [Steward]’s eyes flickered. And that said enough. Flos turned his head.

“Lead me there at once, Orthenon. Now.”

“Your Majesty—”

“Show me.”



—-



They had come far. A Gnoll tribe had indeed come south, through Belchan. But they had never made it to him.

This tribe had been beset before. They had buried their dead six times. But there was not a seventh time. Their attacker had come last night. And the fighting had been over, then.

A hundred-some Gnolls at most. An easy target, already worn by…trouble. Clashes. They had hoped for sanctuary. They had found only death.

The attackers had been quick. They had tried to take the Gnolls by surprise as night fell. But the battle had not been a smooth rout. Both sides had fallen. In the end, the attackers had fled, taking most of their dead with them.

Most, but not all. Teres saw the fallen horses, the bodies mixed with the fallen Gnolls. But most were Gnolls. She stared as the King of Destruction slowly dismounted from his horse.

The rest of the [Riders] stared. Some, like Orthenon and Mars looked as [Warriors], counting bodies, where they had fallen. But Teres stared as herself. She had seen the battlefield afterwards. But this had been Gnolls, seeking the King of Destruction. Non-warriors.

Kids.

Dark fur, matted with blood. They had fallen back again and again, in a narrowing circle. But they had been given no quarter.

They had all died. Adults and children. Even their pack-animals, the camels and mules had been slaughtered. All save one. Teres saw Lykesa pointing, Orthenon speaking. She couldn’t hear. Her eyes fell on a single figure, standing in the center of the bodies.

Perhaps they had left him as a message. Or perhaps they had left, rather than die. Because the young Gnoll was still alive. And he had a sling.

Just—just a sling. But it could throw a stone and kill an animal. Break a neck. Shatter bones.

He still stood there, the sling whirling. Someone called out a warning as Teres nearly approached. Two of the [Riders] that had gone with Orthenon were wounded.

“Your Majesty—”

The half-Giants were striding to keep up. But the young Gnoll didn’t seem to notice that these were different Humans, or the half-Giants. He had a blank look in his eyes. But his aim—

Flos Reimarch slowly took a step towards the Gnoll. And Teres saw he had white fur.

Pure white, like snow. But stained with dried blood. Flies buzzed around the battlefield.

Flos began to walk forwards. The Gnoll’s head moved slightly. A blur shot at Flos’ head.

Orthenon moved; the stone shattered in the air.

“My lord, the stones are dangerous. He’s killed at least two dozen—”

“Move. And stand back.”

The [Steward] looked at Flos. He opened his mouth and Flos turned his head. Silently, Orthenon fell back. Mars had dismounted. And Flos walked forwards.



—-



The young Gnoll was grown. And his sling whirled. He had stood there, defending the dead for nearly a day. He wasn’t thinking, not in any conscious way.

But he had his sling. And ammunition. It whirled. And anything he saw died.

But it had not been enough.

They were coming back. He could see them, on the horses. He waited.

His fur was white.

One of them began to walk towards the Gnoll. So the [Slinger] threw a stone. It shot towards the figure. The first time it was destroyed in midair. The figure kept walking. The young Gnoll fumbled. Loaded a stone with bloody paws.

The sling whirled.

He flung a stone, as hard and as fast as his young limbs could move. The Human staggered. The stone struck him on the shoulder. But he did not scream or fall or run. He kept walking on. The young Gnoll reached for another stone.

He whirled the sling.

Another blow. The Human kept walking. Blood ran down his arm and shoulder. But he came on. He was close now, but slowed to avoid the bodies. The young Gnoll flung a third stone. At the Human’s face.

This time the stone glanced off an arm, gouging deep. But the Human lived. He was too close for a fourth stone. So the young Gnoll drew a weapon and dropped the sling.

He raised a hunting knife and a hand caught his paw. He struggled, but it was too late. The Gnoll waited, snarling, biting—

And the arms enfolded his body.

For a moment the Gnoll paused, uncomprehending. He felt the Humans squeezing, but not hard enough to kill. He bit, and tasted blood. But the grip never changed. And somewhere, somehow, he heard a distant howl.

Voices.

“Your Majesty.”

More Humans. But the young Gnoll heard a howl. And the fog cleared from his eyes. He looked up and saw the King of Destruction.

The [King] had never moved. Even now, as blood ran from the side of his neck, he just hugged the Gnoll. Flos embraced the young Gnoll with the white fur. And as the others thundered towards him, he raised a hand.

Silence. They halted, and the young Gnoll looked into Flos Reimarch’s eyes. They were overflowing with tears.

“Who…?”

The voice was raspy, dry. For answer, the [King] gestured. His [Steward] came, but the healing potion went to the young Gnoll.

“Your Majesty. You are bleeding.”

“And?”

Flos looked at the young Gnoll. He was staring at the glowing vial of medicine. Flos gently opened it.

“Drink, lad.”

“Who are you?”

The young Gnoll was older than Teres, maybe. But not by much. He stared at her, and the others. Flos looked at him.

“I am the King of Destruction.”

“Oh. We were looking for you.”

There was a pause. The young man, the Gnoll, looked around. But all he saw were the bodies.

“They’re dead. All of them. They came last night.”

Flos nodded. He was weeping, and he didn’t even notice as Orthenon applied a potion.

“I am sorry. I was a day too late. Had I not wasted my time with frivolities, with games…”

He turned his head.

“Mars. Are there other survivors?”

“None, my lord.”

The Illusionist’s voice was quiet. The Gnoll looked at her.

“I know you. You were in the scrying waters. Are there other…?”

He saw Chieftain Nelrra. The young Gnoll stumbled forwards, seeing another living Gnoll. But Nelrra—backed away. He stared at the Gnoll. Slowly, the white Gnoll looked down at himself.

“What’s wrong?”

Teres stared at Nelrra. The Gnoll [Chieftain] looked afraid of the last survivor.

“White fur. He is a Doombringer.”

One of the other Gnolls whispered. Flos’ head turned. He stared at Nelrra incredulously.

“Chieftain, do you call this child—no, this man cursed?”

“Your Majesty. White fur among our people is a sign of…”

The Chieftain began, but he stopped. The King of Destruction looked at him.

“A curse?”

The Gnolls nodded. Flos looked from them as the young Gnoll covered in blood stared around, lost. Slowly, the King of Destruction moved. He placed a hand on the young Gnoll’s shoulder.

“If he is cursed, I will embrace him a thousand times a thousand again. If you would cast him out, now—there is no land in all my domain that will shelter you.”

The Gnolls quailed. Slowly, they moved forwards. Nelrra reached out and touched the younger Gnoll’s paw. He looked at the Gnoll with white fur and his expression changed from fear to…he lowered his head.

“It is as you say, King of Destruction. No. You are right. The traditions of old we left behind in Izril. I am…ashamed. We will bring him back to my tribe.”

“No. He stays.”

The Gnolls looked at him. The one with white fur just stared ahead. His eyes had clouded over again. Flos turned.

“Orthenon. Find who did this.”

The [Steward] raced for his horse without another word. Teres was silent, white-faced. There were little Gnoll children among the dead. She—

Mars covered Teres’ eyes. The young woman fought her. But Mars held her tight.

“Just for a second, Teres. Look later. Don’t speak.”

Teres clung to her, feeling soft skin, even arm. An illusion. But she clung to it. Weeping.

The King of Destruction’s tears had ceased, but the proof of them was still there. He looked at the young Gnoll with the white fur.

“What is your name, lad?”

At first, the Gnoll didn’t respond. Flos gently put a hand on his shoulder.

“Look at me.”

The head rose, but mechanically. There was something there, but it was fading away, now. By degrees. The King of Destruction spoke, looking into those eyes.

“Stay with me an hour longer. Stay, for I am your king. I did not know your tribe. But you claimed me, and I failed you. But I will see justice done. What is your name?”

Something reappeared. Teres heard a voice as she looked at him. At that terribly lost look in his gaze.

“Sailt. Sailt, of the Saltstone Tribe.”

“Come with me, Sailt. Your tribe must be buried. Ulyse, preserve them. Remove the insects.”

The [Mages] raised their staffs silently. Flos had brought his veterans. But even they walked slowly here, staring. This was not a battle that anyone could be proud of.

Orthenon returned. He raced through the setting sunlight. A black shadow on a dark horse.

“Your Majesty. Survivors. We have the attackers.”

The Gnolls’ heads turned. Sailt looked up.

“Survivors?”

Flos whirled. His green eyes found Orthenon’s. The [Steward] nodded.

“A village not far from here. My Lord. Some of the Gnolls live. They were captured as slaves. All children. The village is surrounded by your riders.”

“Who—”

Sailt’s voice faltered. He began to cough, but he tried to make his way to Orthenon. Nelrra steadied him, searching for a drink. Teres gave him her water flask.

“Slaves? What crime did they commit?”

Flos stared at Orthenon.

“The village [Headman] claims they stole from his lands.”

Orthenon was breathing slowly. His voice was level and measured. But there was something dark in his eyes. Waiting. Flos looked back at the dead Gnolls.

“Stole. Did they?”

He looked at Sailt. The young Gnoll coughed and choked on his reply. He spat.

“No. They refused to trade with us. We did nothing.”

A glowing light. Mars held up the stone glowing soft blue, and Ulyse’s staff flashed white. The truth.

Flos nodded. His expression was just—distant. It had not changed. He looked back at Orthenon.

“How many children?”

“Fifteen children, your Majesty. They have white fur.”

“They would, after…”

Nelrra murmured. Flos turned. Teres saw him looking at her. Flos had no emotion on his face.

“Bring them to me. The entire village.”

The [Steward] rode with half the [Riders]. Zamea pointed and two of the half-Giants strode after them. Flos just stood there.

“He told me they had few of my refugees. He promised me they were given every courtesy.”

“Perhaps he did not know, my lord—”

Mars began. Flos looked at her and she went still. But the [King] just nodded slowly.

“Perhaps he did not.”

“Your Majesty.”

Another figure. Zamea’s voice. She bent.

“Belchan’s army, Lord Reimarch. They are coming. The six thousand who have shadowed us. They are going to stop Orthenon.”

“The army?”

Flos stirred. He paused, and then looked around.

“Mars. Bring them to me. Zamea, go with her.”

The [Vanguard] nodded. She strode into the distance. The half-Giant followed her. Teres heard distant sounds. But Sailt consumed her vision. He was just standing. Looking at Flos.

Waiting.

So was the [King]. The other Gnolls were looking among the dead. Howling in quiet grief. And crying. They cried the same way as Teres.

“Your Majesty, the villagers.”

Orthenon had returned. Several hundred people were being herded forwards by ranks of [Soldiers]. At the same time, amid shouting, Mars dragged a figure towards Flos. Zamea strode behind a few more.

“What is the meaning of this? We are Belchan’s—”

The [Commander] froze when he saw the carnage. Flos turned his head.

“The [Headman] of the village?”

“There.”

Orthenon pointed. A man was pushed forwards. Flos nodded. He turned his face and Teres saw something that terrified her. She worked her mouth.

“Your Majesty—”

He ignored her. Flos Reimarch was striding towards the [Commander], the [Headman]. She saw a group of Gnoll children, with white fur, staring around. Chieftain Nelrra saw them and broke into a run. So did the others.

But Sailt followed the King of Destruction. Watching. Teres felt something in her chest. She stared at Flos’ back.

“Your Majesty!”

He ignored her. Mars and Orthenon looked at Teres. She felt a hand on her shoulder.

“Lady Teres. It is unwise.”

Ulyse. The [Mage] was staring after Flos’ back. Teres looked at him. And then she ran forwards.

“Flos!”

He turned his head. Fixed Teres with a gaze. She hesitated.

In that moment if she had tried to plead with him, tried to stop him—but she did not. Slowly, the part of Teres that was still there, still able to think amid the pure howl of oblivion, spoke.

“Whatever you’re going to do, do it with this.”

She lifted the scrying mirror she’d snatched from Ulyse’s side. Flos Reimarch stared at it. Then at Teres. Slowly, he reached for it.

And nodded. He turned back silently. And the scrying mirror began to light up. Teres watched. Waiting.



—-



That evening, the world watched an important, world-changing announcement. Courtesy of Wistram Academy. They’d even sent [Message] spells, and everyone was watching.

Because it involved the King of Destruction and war. A’ctelios, Tombhome, the Carven City and Shield Kingdom of Chandrar had been attacked. The King of Destruction had violated his oath.

That was the line. It was one that, when uttered, would change the world. Wistram Academy had Noass and Sir Relz commentating, being the ones chosen to break the news.

They were having a hard time of it. The Wistram [Seer] who had rushed to A’ctelios was trying her best. But the people of A’ctelios were literally frothing at the mouth in parts. And they had sharp teeth.

She stood in the Carven City, trying not to show…everything. A representative of A’ctelios was raging at Noass, who was trying to unpack what had happened.

“—murdered Baosar!”

“Your leader. Yes, I think we have a—a picture of what’s happening.”

Noass was having a hard time. A’ctelios was the victim here. Their leader slain by Gazi Pathseeker. But if you knew about the Carven City—he was omitting a lot of facts about A’ctelios, but anyone staring at the scrying orb…the Drake [Commentator] coughed.

“So—so is this war? Has A’ctelios in fact, declared war on Reim?”

It was the line of the month. The man standing in the image paused. Even A’ctelios in its madness wasn’t suicidal.

“If it is war, it is one caused by Reim! They have killed many of our own! Killed a pakeil, and our leader!”

“A—pakeil? Is that an animal? My notes say beast of burden. Can we see—no?”

Noass looked off screen. Sir Relz was speaking with the academy, directly on a call. He shook his head vigorously. Noass turned back and tried to give the viewers a smile.

“Well, let’s recap for anyone just tuning in. Sir, you say that your leader of A’ctelios was assassinated by Gazi the Omniscient? Thus, breaking the King of Destruction’s oath of non-aggression? Because that sounds like what you’re saying.”

Again, the man hesitated. He bared his sharp teeth, but cautiously.

“His Seven, Gazi the Omniscient, she claimed there was insult. That the outsiders were under his protection. But insult was given!”

“But who started—”

Sir Relz slid back into frame, sweating a bit.

“Er—it sounds like both sides were to blame, Noass. But this is a clear provocation. It certainly sounds like the King of Destruction may have invalidated his oath. If you were—um—”

No one was saying it outright. It was hard to say. The [Commentators] couldn’t do it. They didn’t want to, no matter how much the Archmages shouted at them. And the Shield Kingdom was…wary.

“We know blood has been spilled. On…both sides? Look, an assassination of a leader of a nation—”

“Assassination is hard word to swear under truth spell—”

Sir Relz murmured. Noass paused. It was going to happen. You could feel it. Justification or not, a nation’s leader had been murdered by one of the King of Destruction’s Seven. But it was an agonizing battle getting there.

“Maybe we should see if Reim’s representatives have any input on this. The Quarass of Germina was there—can we locate her? No? Well, how about Gazi Pathseeker? Surely someone from Reim—”

Noass broke off as Sir Relz rose. The two Drakes stared as there was an exclamation audible from off-screen. Sir Relz hurried away, then came back and whispered in Noass’ ear. The Drake froze.

“Oh. Oh Ancestors—I think the King of Destruction wants to reply to A’ctelios’ accusations. We didn’t get the Quarass but—the King of Destruction? Really? Is this a joke?”

He stared. Then Noass turned back to the viewers. Which was again, the world. Or all of it that mattered, which was anyone watching. Rulers and anyone who could afford a scrying spell stared.

“Ancestors, I think he froze up.”

Rufelt commented from his bar in Tails and Scales. It was packed with his regulars. Lasica poked her head out of the kitchen.

“What’s happening now, Ruf?”

“The King of Destruction’s going to speak about the incident.”

“What? Hold on! Let me see! I’m nearly finished with this—”

“Um.”

The sound of Sir Relz swallowing was very audible. He prodded Noass, and the Drake jerked. He began breathing again.

“I—I—I think we’ll interview the King of Destruction again. I mean, now. A’ctelios, Seeress, please hold. We’ll listen to the King of Destruction, ask your opinion—let’s—let’s go to him now? Can we?”

Noass stared as the scrying mirror reflecting the King of Destruction was moved so it filled half the screen. The Drake was in the other half, doing the world’s first split-screen broadcast.

For a moment, the mirror was blank. People stared. Surely the King of Destruction wasn’t going to acknowledge the incident? They waited as Noass fidgeted.

“Is he—”

And then the King of Destruction appeared. He stood, in the dusk, filling the mirror. He was looking down at the scrying mirror, at an angle. The sky behind him was filled with a setting sun.

“Oh Ancestors—”

Noass broke off. He caught himself.

“And here we have the King of Destruction. Gentledrakes, everyone—the King of Reim, Flos Reimarch, um—”

Flos Reimarch said nothing. Noass went on, stuttering.

“So—we’ve heard from A’ctelios. Your Majesty, King Reimarch. It appears your subjects, Gazi the Omniscient, beheaded Baosar, the leader of A’ctelios. There are allegations of offense on both sides. But how would you—you—”

The King of Destruction’s face was pale. And he said not a word. Noass’ mouth dried up. He tried again.

“Your Majesty, how would you accuse to A’ctelios’ claims that their leader was assassinated. Your oath—”

“I declare war.”

Noass paused. Across the desert continent, the raving fury of A’ctelios halted. The Archmages froze. Rufelt stopped midway through making his drink.

Noass was nodding. Then he registered what Flos had said.

“You—you what? I’m sorry. Did you say—”

“I declare war.”

The King of Destruction’s voice was low. Intense was a poor word. He spoke each word slowly. With a terrible, halting madness to them. Growing.

A’ctelios Salash paused. And even their fury halted. They felt fear.

And the world listened. Noass looked at the King of Destruction.

“War? So you’re claiming this incident was—was A’ctelios’ provocation? And—and—”

Slowly, the hand-mirror in Flos’ grip rose. The view tilted. And—Rufelt wasn’t sure what he saw at first. Then he saw the red.

The blood. He dropped his glass.

“What is that?”

Noass recoiled. The bodies lay behind Flos. A slaughter. The [King] slowly handed the mirror to someone. She angled it and moved back.

He stood amid the blood. The bodies on the ground were just bodies at first. Then the viewers began to place them.

Gnolls. And—behind them, a silent line of Humans, surrounded by armed [Soldiers]. A [Commander] in Belchan’s insignia. Mars and Orthenon.

“When I swore my oath of peace, I demanded my people be allowed to come to Reim. No matter who they were. From wherever they hailed. My people came. From Izril. Gnolls.”

Flos Reimarch spoke slowly. He filled the image. Wistram Academy sat frozen. They couldn’t cut away. They didn’t even know what that was. They could only halt the broadcast. And it was too late.

The King of Destruction looked around.

“The tribes of the Gnolls came seeking me. This—was—the Saltstone Tribe. But they never made it to my lands. They were attacked. Slaughtered. In Belchan. As the Prime Minister asked I hunt Manticores. He promised me my people were permitted to cross his borders. Look. This is what became of them.”

Flos’ voice was so—so empty. Not of emotion. But it was being held back. He gestured.

A white Gnoll. Rufelt’s paws shook as he saw a white Gnoll. He knew what that meant. The young Gnoll, Sailt, stared ahead blankly. His fur was matted with blood.

But he was not alone. There were fifteen Gnolls. Children. They clung to the other Gnolls who carried them. Each had white fur. And some were injured.

They’d been healed. But a little Gnoll child stared at the shining mirror Teres held. She had one eye. The other was missing. She looked so young, to Rufelt. A Plains Gnoll. Just like—

She was missing an eye. And the bodies of the Gnoll tribe—

“Ruf? It’s gone quiet. What’s—”

In Scales and Tails, Rufelt heard a crash as Lasica dropped the plates she’d been carrying out of the kitchen. The audience of Pallass’ citizens stared. The world stared.

Noass’ voice shook.

“Even the children—what happened?”

Flos stared into the mirror. Then he turned.

“For what reason did this occur? Because they were thieves? Because they quarreled, or broke any law? Orthenon, bring forwards the one who ordered this.”

A man was dragged into the frame. He was knelt by Orthenon and Mars. The [Headman] was pale, shaking. He spat at Flos’ feet.

“King of Destruction. May you—”

Orthenon struck the man with the butt of his spear. Silence. Flos stared down at him.

“Did your village kill these Gnolls?”

Silence. The man spat more blood. Flos leaned down.

“Answer me.”

This time the force of his question was like a physical thing. Even Noass flinched. The [Headman] looked up, unwillingly.

“Yes. We killed them.”

“Why? What crimes did they commit?”

“They st—”

The lie caught on the man’s tongue. Flos Reimarch waited.

Silence.

“What did they do? Nothing? Then why did they die? This tribe came for me. What did they do to deserve death? Tell me.”

“They were yours!”

The man spat. He spat at Flos’ face. Blood spattered the [King]’s skin. He wiped away the blood as Mars drove the man’s face into the ground. The [Headman] kept speaking.

“They were yours! The beasts! You have enemies everywhere, King of Destruction! They never reached you! This is your fault!”

Mars began to press, but Flos raised a hand. He paused and his eyes found the mirror, then the kneeling man.

“Yes. Because they were my subjects. No reason beyond that. And they were not the first, were they? How many were waylaid within Belchan?”

This time his question went to the [Commander]. The man was kneeling. Zamea pushed him forwards. His face was dead-white.

“I had no knowledge of this, King Reimarch. None at all!”

“But it happened within Belchan. You had to know they entered your borders. But they never left. Your Prime Minister, didn’t he give them escorts? Track them? What were his orders?”

The [Commander]’s lips moved helplessly.

“We—didn’t escort them. Your Majesty. But—we did not know. Please—”

Flos spoke, swinging around. Still…waiting.

“They were given no escort. And no one thought to even ask about their deaths. Though you knew that my subjects had been attacked. You knew.”

He looked at the man. And there was no response. Flos Reimarch looked around. Noass didn’t say a word. He might have forgotten he was even being broadcast.

“Children to be sold as slaves. The rest cut down here. Because they came for me. They left their homes and came all this way. And died. Calling out my name. And Belchan’s ruler welcomed me into his lands with a smile. I rode, searching for them. And they were dead before I knew to look.”

He said nothing after that. Just stood, amid it all. Rufelt felt Lasica holding him. He wanted to turn the mirror off. But the King of Destruction just stood there. Then he turned his head.

“Orthenon.”

The [Steward] moved. He needed no other order. He walked past the [Headman]. Orthenon drew his sword and placed it in the King of Destruction’s hand. The King of Destruction walked over to the [Headman]. The man looked up, cursing and struggling in Mars’ grasp.

“We—”

Flos brought down the sword. A head rolled and for a second blood spurted. The mirror jerked in Teres’ hands. The world heard a cry.

“Next.”

The King of Destruction turned. The [Commander] found himself being dragged forwards.

“No! No! I had no knowledge, I swear—”

“You let them die.”

The King of Destruction swung the blade. A second head fell. The mirror jerked away—and for a second a young woman’s face was visible. But then a paw caught the mirror.

A white-furred Gnoll took the mirror. Sailt. He pointed it back, steadily. The King of Destruction gestured.

Another man was brought forwards. Another officer in the force of Belchan’s soldiers. And then a woman. She was one of the villagers who’d fought the Gnolls. She spat and cursed him.

The sword fell, glittering. Orthenon’s blade was magical, and the hand that held it was steady. Flos Reimarch didn’t blink. He brought the sword down casually. Once, twice, a dozen times.

There were hundreds of villagers. The sword kept on falling. They began to scream, to plead or argue. One shouted as he was brought before Flos.

“You cannot do this! We are citizens of Belchan! We are people protected by—”

His words halted mid-flow as the King of Destruction looked at him. Flos’ green eyes shone in the fading light. And his red and gold hair was darker, drenched in blood. He stared through the man.

“Citizens? People? I see nothing in front of me worthy of either word.”

He swung his sword. A body toppled, was dragged backwards. His [Soldiers] watched silently. The Gnolls stared. Even the fifteen children.

“Next.”

The [Steward] moved in front of his [King]. He put a hand on Flos’ arm.

“My King. Your time is wasted on them. Allow your soldiers to take care of the rest.”

For a second the King of Destruction paused. Then he nodded. He pointed.

“Let the others go. Only the officers. And every warrior in the village. Let the others go unless they fight.”

“You’re executing them? All of them?”

Everyone had forgotten Noass was there. He had been a statue. Flos looked back at the mirror. He stared at Noass, blankly. Then he turned.

“This will be avenged! This is war!”

Some of Belchan’s soldiers were screaming as their officers were beheaded. Flos looked at them. And his blank look began to change at last.

“War? Of course it is. Go. Return and tell your people of what you have seen today. And bring your armies. Because I will slaughter them. I will kill all of your armies and burn your cities to ash. Until nothing remains.”

The [Soldiers] stared. Flos raised his voice. It was growing louder. He pointed, and the men and woman backed away. The [King] cast the sword into the ground and it sank deep, tip-first.

“Flee back to your capital. When we next meet, I will drown Belchan in the blood of your worthless lot! Begone!”

He clenched his hands. They hesitated. Flos turned. His soldiers stared. His people watched, his vassals. And his subjects.

Gnolls. White fur, varied. Chieftain Nelrra. Those standing in the bar with Rufelt.

They looked at him. A Human man, who raged over their deaths. Who would go to war for a single Gnoll child.

Their [King].

Flos Reimarch turned. Those not dying were staring at him. Now he raged. His tendons stood out, and his eyes bulged. His face became a rictus, mask. He howled and his face contorted as his hands became claws, and his two vassals seized him. The King of Destruction raged and the ground itself began to shake. People fled as he bellowed at the mirror.

“I have kept to my oath! And this is how I am repaid? With death? With treachery! Cowardice and shame! Lies and flattery while children die! I will salt the earth and drench it with a hundred thousand lives! Until not a blade of grass grows. I come for you, you craven coward!”

He pointed at the scrying mirror. Noass hid under the desk.

“I declare WAR! On Belchan! On you, Prime Minister Lyfelt! Until I place your head on the streets of your city to rot, Reim will slay a thousand of Belchan’s people for every one of my subjects!”

The mirror began to crack. Flos Reimarch howled.

“SUMMON MY ARMIES!”

There was a sound, and the transmission cut out. And then just silence. From the studio, at least. Noass wouldn’t come out from under the desk. Wistram cut the image a minute later.

But the sound of the King of Destruction’s fury broke over Chandrar. It split the night. Belchan woke, fearful, as they heard a sound in the distance. Growing louder.

An army moved as word began to spread. War? War had been declared. Reim had declared war on the Belchan. And it was happening now.

An army lit the nation alight with fire. A tiny force, but they were led by a man whose humanity had been consumed by rage. Sixty thousand of them poured across the ground, screaming wrath and ruin. And Teres was there, racing behind the King of Destruction, his fury beating against the sky itself.



—-



War.

King Raelt of Jecrass walked towards the secret vault where he could communicate with Prime Minister Lyfelt of Belchan. His face was pale, almost white. His daughter appeared in the doorway.

“Father.”

Jecaina was white-faced, and with a huge purple knot on her forehead. Raelt didn’t ask where she’d been. Nor did he look at her. Her dark skin was so pale—but by moonlight.

“Leave, Jecaina. I am speaking with Lyfelt.”

The statue was babbling. Jecaina’s mouth moved.

“But I saw—”

“Leave.”

Raelt turned. His daughter looked at him and fled. Raelt turned back to Lyfelt.

The Prime Minister was speaking rapidly. He had not seen the broadcast. Raelt had. But everyone knew of the declaration of war.

“Lyfelt.”

“You’ve heard of course. Was that your daughter? The sound was a bit off. Well—it’s—good! Not ideal; I’d have preferred another country, but he’s forsworn himself. Listen, Raelt. Reim can be defeated. We talked on the issue. The other nations will come to Belchan’s aid. If I can just count on you, it’s only sixty thousand—”

“Lyfelt!”

Raelt shouted. The talking statue went silent. Lyfelt stared at the King of Jecrass. Raelt breathed in and out.

“You didn’t see the moment the King of Destruction declared war?”

“No, I was dining actually. But I know what it means. Raelt, I can’t speak long. I’m besieged here, but I went directly to you to get your help. If you fall on the King of Destruction’s back, slow him even half a day—”

Raelt closed his eyes.

“Lyfelt, be silent.”

He waited. The statue paused. There was a babble in the background. Lyfelt’s face was blank, uncomprehending. He didn’t know.

“There was—a broadcast. From Wistram. They stopped it after his speech, but the world already saw. There was a…they showed a dead Gnoll tribe. Slaughtered by one of Belchan’s villages.”

“What?”

The [Prime Minister]’s eyes widened. The statue remained the same, but he looked…genuine. Raelt studied him.

“Everyone saw it. The King of Destruction declared war. The [Headman] of the village admitted to the crime. The [Commander] he beheaded also claimed you did not search for the missing people, that they were without escort. I told you to give them aid.”

Lyfelt’s mouth worked silently. For once, the [Politician] had no quick reply. For a moment.

“That was—that was—dead? All of them? That’s a terrible tragedy! I did not order it, Raelt, you know me. I didn’t escort them because—that explains the King of Destruction’s—but surely he has to understand I can’t control every last—”

“Dead gods, Lyfelt! There were children hacked apart! They were slaughtered! The rest were being sold as slaves!”

Raelt bellowed at the statue. Lyfelt’s expression froze as Raelt hurled something—he didn’t know what. He pointed at the statue, shouting, his hand trembling.

“I told you to escort them. But you let your subjects attack his people. You let them…”

He couldn’t unsee the image burned into his eyes.

“I didn’t know. I only thought they were—Raelt. I did not know.”

The statue pleaded with Raelt. The [King] turned away.

“A’ctelios has declared war. Nerrhavia—the Claiven Earth—Oteslia too.”

He related the information dully. Lyfelt would know of it soon; it was being broadcast the world over.

“Against Reim? Then, maybe—Oteslia, even? A Drake city?”

Hope bloomed in the desperate man’s eyes. Raelt turned around.

“Against Belchan. They saw it all, Lyfelt. It’s being rebroadcast. A’ctelios declared war against Reim, and a handful of nations joined them. The rest have declared war on you! Because they saw everything!”

He shouted it into his friend’s uncomprehending, idiotic face. Lyfelt stared.

“But I didn’t—Raelt?”

The head turned, staring about. The clamoring voices were growing louder in the background.

“Raelt, please. You must listen to me. Please—”

“I’m sorry, old friend.”

“Raelt!”

The [King] of Jecrass turned away. The statue screamed his name. Raelt walked out of the secret vault, past his daughter. He entered his throne room.

River Wardens and [Courtiers]. His court stared up at him, clamoring. Some had seen, others knew bits and pieces. An incomplete truth. Raelt sat on his throne. His crown lay there. He put it on. Looked about.

“Send a [Message] to Belchan. To the world. As of this moment, Jecrass rides to war against Belchan. Jecrass declares war on Belchan. I declare war on Belchan.”

He said it thrice, to emphasize his words. The court looked at him, statues. Raelt went on, without missing a beat.

“Find me General Lael. Tell her to bring Jecrass’ entire army. We will assault Belchan’s capital before the King of Destruction reaches it. I want every available [Soldier] mobilized within the hour and riding towards our border. Strengthen the garrisons to the south, but every other [Soldier].”

They stared at him. Raelt looked around. Even Geril, his oldest retainer was staring. Raelt stood up. He shouted.

“Well? Run!”

They ran. River Wardens, Geril, everyone. The throne room emptied for a second, as the entire palace woke up. Raelt was alone. He wanted to laugh at the expressions on his River Warden’s face. The unquestioning obedience he’d had for the first time ever.

But he didn’t. Raelt rested one arm on his throne. And he buried his head in his hand.

He wept for a second for his old friend. And then he rose for war.





7.11


The King of Destruction rode to war and everyone watched. Not directly, but by reactions. In their studio, Noass and Sir Relz scrambled to retell the events, to analyze. Belchan was unresponsive, as was Reim; the nearest nations willing to talk and speculate were Medain and Nerrhavia. And their rulers did.

They were of course, appalled. Everyone was. Queen Yisame was pale as she declared war again on Belchan. And when you looked at her face, well—you might realize that she had never seen war up front. Not like that, in detail. She was a [Queen] who had seen the truth of battle for the first time.

As had many. Wistram was sending out an apology to those who had witnessed the scene and were venting their fury over seeing dead children and blood. Because, that was, of course, unacceptable to broadcast. Clearly, Wistram would need to put policies in place. Delay the broadcast in case of traumatic scenes? Issue a warning?

But meanwhile, Yisame and Nerrhavia’s horror was genuine. And that earned her appreciation for her sincerity. Medain’s High King, Perric, struck a different chord. He too condemned the atrocities, but his was a measured tone. He had seen death, and you could respect a man who could speak levelly, condemning both Reim and Belchan in equal measures. But it was on Belchan his armies marched, to eat away at the north.

And the world watched it all, of course. That was the new way of things. And—was anyone sick of it? Surely so, like the Titan of Baleros, who rolled his eyes and told Foliana to stop watching the broadcasts.

“It’s politics, Foliana. Politics. I’m going back to my chess game. Tell me if they show the actual battles.”

The Squirrel Beastkin woman didn’t respond. She was perched in front of the scrying mirror, nibbling on walnuts and other nuts. There was a little bowl of honey she occasionally dipped them in. This wasn’t a contract; it was just a favorite snack. But she was watching with that absorbed look of someone experiencing broadcast television for the first time. Also…she might have been studying potential targets, but you couldn’t ever get away from the job.

But she was one of many. And the world…

The world watched.



—-



The world, the world, what a stupid thing…it was always ‘the world’ this, or ‘everyone’ that. Sometimes the dramas of nations could be stupid. Who cared what the King of Destruction did thousands of miles away? What bearing did it have on here?

Nothing. And everything. It would not have mattered as much, that war in Belchan, a single dead Gnoll tribe, if Wistram hadn’t broadcast it. If people didn’t pay attention, it wouldn’t have affected everyone. But they had. And the ripples spread wide.

Tails and Scales, one of the best bars in Pallass, was not a happy place that night. Patrons filled the seats, talking urgently, angrily, or hysterically over what they’d seen. Rufelt, at the bar, was suppressing nausea and anger and a sense of vindication as he did his job. Lasica had gone to her kitchen to feed her clients. She’d shrugged off Rufelt suggesting she sit down. She wanted to work.

The bar wasn’t run by just the two of them of course. Their staff was hurrying about. Two apprentice [Bartenders] and some of Lasica’s assistants were serving tables. One of them, a Garuda, took a trio of drinks to a table where two Drakes were sitting.

“Apologies for the delay, sirs. I have a large water with ice and lemon, a carrot juice, unsweetened, and a Chaldion’s Eye for uh—”

“Me. Thank you, young man.”

Chaldion glanced up from his conversation with Grimalkin. The Garuda bowed and served the cocktail. It was, in fact, a Firebreath Whiskey and an Ultasian bitter made from the Ultasa flower, all mixed together with some lime.

And if that sounded really bitter and sour, well, the key to alleviating the pain was the floating ice ball, carved into the shape of an eye. And inside the already-melting ice was a shot of exceptionally sweet, practically syrupy, wine.

Rufelt’s own blend. It would melt as the drinker imbibed, so long as they had the patience for it. The Chaldion’s Eye was a popular dish in Pallass, especially among the [Strategists]. And the Drake who it had been made for.

“Ah.”

Chaldion sipped the bitter drink as the Garuda bowed. He was new, so he was still star-struck by the clientele. Grimalkin too; the Sinew Magus’ newfound fame made him stand out. As did the bandages.

“Hm. Thank you.”

The two Drakes turned back to their conversation. Around them, the bar buzzed, but the two were fixated on their own conversation. They were, of course, talking about Belchan. They’d both seen the replays, but their own take on the matter was a bit off-kilter to everyone else’s.

“It’s another point in my theory, Grand Strategist. Regardless of the actual origins of the event, you must concede today has not been a normal one.”

Chaldion sighed. He was sipping slowly as the ice melted and the syrup began to release. The [Strategist] was quite contented with it. This wasn’t a drink you could get in any bar. Let alone the inn he’d just been in. The Wandering Inn had a different feel than Tails and Scales. It was charming, engaging—but lacked the heights of craft of this place.

And that was fine. But Chaldion liked his drinks. He waved a claw idly as he glanced over at the scrying mirror on the far wall. Rufelt had left it active, but everyone was watching it warily. Pallass’ own Noass and Sir Relz were on it, a mark of pride of the city, but they’d been apologizing non-stop for the vivid depiction of violence. Now they had another [Strategist], from Manus, giving his thoughts on the matter.

“Magus, you’re conflating the issues. The actions of the King of Destruction or other nations across the world cannot be the product of one [Innkeeper]’s Skills.”

Grimalkin leaned on the table as he drank from his very large vessel of water. Hydration was important! He raised his clawed hand and shrugged.

“Of course not, Grand Strategist. However, I will put forwards these two points. One—the actions occurred in a timeline where we interacted with Erin Solstice and were distracted again, after her use of her new Skill. It bears adding to my list of data points. Secondly—where are we now? Are we at Erin Solstice’s inn, inquiring about her origins or Skills and levels?”

Chaldion paused. His one good eye narrowed.

“True. But this has to be a coincidence.”

“And if it’s not? Let’s leave aside the incident with the King of Destruction. Her Skill, the disappearance of the child, Mrsha. Either Erin Solstice really is as oblivious as she seems, or…”

“No one who plays chess like she does is that airheaded. She magnificently deflected all of our questions. And she beat my [Path to Victory].”

The old Drake’s eye narrowed, and then, unexpectedly, he smiled. He was quite pleased by that last bit. Grimalkin eyed him.

“If I might inquire, Grand Strategist—”

“Chaldion is fine, Magus Grimalkin.”

Grimalkin nodded briefly.

“—Then if it is not a matter of security, your Skill. I have always been fascinated by the higher-level Skills as data on them is sparse. When you say she defeated…”

Chaldion raised his left eye patch. The gem in his eye flashed, creating a bubble of privacy. He spoke casually as Grimalkin switched to his carrot juice.

“It’s no large secret. I’ve used it so many times that its public record, as you well know. It can be defeated; it just shows me one route to victory in any given battle. Not even the optimal one. It has vast utility, but it’s hardly impregnable. Miss Solstice saw me use it; she was able to change her entire strategy and defeat me. But that was a mark of her skill at the game. The third time we played and I used my Skill, she won.”

“Fascinating. And my assertion?”

Chaldion drummed his claws on the table and nodded.

“You have my full agreement. I may personally investigate this matter, along with you; I doubt an agent would have much success. But I have put out an inquiry on her.”

Grimalkin paused, mid-drink.

“And?”

“Nothing.”

The Magus put down his drink and paused for a moment.

“Hardly surprising for a Human no one’s heard about. Or so the other Walled Cities might assert.”

Chaldion’s eyes glinted.

“Yes. If I hadn’t met her, I’d say that too.”

The two Drakes paused significantly. But before they could speculate longer, there was an aggrieved shout from the bar.

“Dead gods take it, Saliss! We told you you’re not allowed in here without at least pants! You’re putting people off their food!”

Rufelt was not in a good mood. And Saliss had just emerged from the bathroom. His claws were clean, but, to put it delicately, he had neither had to remove or put on any articles of clothing throughout his entire process. He was still naked.

“Rufelt! Come on. Have a heart!”

Saliss protested, spreading his claws. Rufelt glared.

“There are paying customers. You’re one of them. Clothes on or you go out. I’m not arguing tonight, Saliss—”

He was interrupted by a Gnoll pushing towards him. The Gnoll had dark black fur and a dark look in his eyes. He leaned on the bar, heavily.

“I don’t care about naked Drakes. Just get me a drink, Rufelt. Bartender’s specialty.”

That was code for ‘give me what I need’. Rufelt, as a high-level [Bartender] could tailor his drinks to his clientele. Usually it was a delicate game, teasing out the emotions or state of drunk they needed to be—or not be. But tonight Rufelt didn’t even have to think. He reached for a glass.

“A Salaszarian Rockhammer, coming up, Felkhr.”

The Gnoll, who was a guest tonight, nodded. He was the Flying Gnoll of Pallass, another one of those faces. Rufelt had invited him to Tails and Scales after the Wyvern attack for free food, but Felkhr was a regular. He had stopped coming as much when Tails and Scales became fancy, but their encounter had brought him back into the bar. Felkhr saw Rufelt fill the glass with ice, mix up the steady drink—and then add something from a bottle.

“What’s that?”

Rufelt glanced up as he slid the drink over, without his usual flourishes.

“Calming drink. Everyone needs them tonight. Xif, Saliss, sell me some more of your tonics. We need it.”

The Drake [Alchemist] paused. He dug in his bag of holding and a Gnoll sitting across from him did the same. Xif, the other top [Alchemist] of Pallass, shook his head.

“I can send a Runner unless you have some, Saliss—”

“No problem, Xif. I always carry—aha! Got them. Here, Rufelt!”

He flung them across the bar. Everyone in the path ducked and Rufelt swore. But the potions, all five of them in small vials, slowed as they arced towards his bar. They landed without so much as cracking the glass.

Rufelt glared at Saliss. The Drake waved. But he was toning down his usual riot act. Rufelt nodded. He began pouring the rest of the calming tonic into the drinks he was serving.

Felkhr sighed as he drained half of his drink. His fur had been standing on edge. Now, he relaxed. But his grip on the glass tumbler was still strong.

“Humans.”

That was all he said. But half of the Gnolls around him nodded. Rufelt said nothing as Lasica emerged from the kitchen. Felkhr amended his statement.

“Some of them are decent. But that—”

“Have another drink. I’m doubling up your tonic. Something sour to chase that down with.”

Rufelt advised Felkhr. The Gnoll sighed.

“Thank you. It’s one thing to know or hear about it, but to see it—”

“We’re all shaken. No one’s denying that. Apologies for the delay, Magus, Grand Strategist. Here is tonight’s special, Chaldion—”

Lasica was being followed by orders of food. The [Chef] came to the two Drake’s table to deliver their orders personally. Both Drakes looked up. Chaldion eyed the dish placed in front of them.

“Interesting. What is this?”

He stared at the neatly, even artfully sliced fish on the rice and colorful little bites wrapped in the roll. Well, some were wrapped—some just looked like literal raw fish on rice. And there were little dishes with sauces…

“I’ve heard it’s called ‘sushi’ by Erin, but it’s a traditional Dullahan and Drathian food. Raw fish, rice, seaweed—there are variations, but this is Magus Grimalkin’s request.”

“A Balerosian dish.”

Grimalkin was nodding. Then his eyes narrowed.

“Did you say Miss Solstice had a specific name for it?”

“She has names for everything, Magus.”

Lasica shrugged, unconcerned. Grimalkin gave Chaldion a significant look. The Grand Strategist nodded, his expression calm.

“Ah, I’ve had this. Zeres serves it too. Most excellent, Miss Lasica.”

She smiled. Grimalkin raised one claw.

“I’ll need eight more portions, Chef Lasica. I am attempting to build up my muscles. How about two more of these sushi plates, a stir fry of meats and noodles and vegetables, a steak, no, three—Wyvern cuts? And…any suggestions?”

Lasica eyed Grimalkin. He was thinner than before, but his list of food was making even some of the [Gourmands] who liked to frequent her bar look queasy.

“I’ll throw in some shrimp—fresh from Zeres. I have a quinoa for Saliss—I’ll make two portions. Would you like some lard too, Magus? In a bucket?”

“I’ll think about it.”

The [Chef] shook her head as she went back to the kitchen. Grimalkin turned back to his food as he and Chaldion began to eat. He did not shovel his food; the two Drakes used the lacquered chopsticks they’d been given to eat. Grimalkin was rather adept and Chaldion remembered how to use his in moments.

Grimalkin ate methodically, savoring and chewing each bite. If he hadn’t, Lasica probably would have stopped serving him long ago. She had no room in her establishment for scarfers.

And to be ejected from the bar was to lose your access to it, and that was no light thing. Tails and Scales was one of the best establishments in all of Pallass. That meant husband and wife could cultivate the clientele they wanted.

Rufelt and Lasica had created a very selective clientele. They had a group which were pleasant to serve, got along with each other most of the time, and could pay for quality. And that number expanded seldom and usually by invitation by way of friend, sponsoring. You couldn’t walk into Tails and Scales without being on the list.

Literally. Rufelt had a Skill. [Bar: Selective Admission]. It could literally keep anyone below his level from casually walking in. But emergencies and higher-level individuals were an exception.

And that happened now. The door to the bar burst open and a Dullahan hurried into the room. Or rather—his head. Rufelt looked up from the bar as the apprentice Dullahan hurried him over.

It was rare to see a Dullahan without their body, but the strange, armored folk of Baleros could separate body parts and send them long distances. Usually only a hundred feet, but with practice, you could go further. It was said the Seer of Steel could control his body thousands of miles from his head.

In this case, the Dullahan was doing this on purpose. He was another [Bartender], whose body could make drinks while his head spoke or interacted with his clients. Tonight, however, the head looked anxious, which meant for a Dullahan he was panicking.

“Rufelt! I must seek your help.”

“What’s the matter, Yeart?”

Rufelt didn’t stop fixing his drink, but he turned to the Dullahan as his assistant put the head on the counter and stepped back, bowing. Yeart looked up at Rufelt, worry written all across his face.

“My bar is under siege. You know I just bought a scrying orb? I had a full bar when it happened.”

“Oh no. Were there—”

Yeart nodded, miserably. It was difficult without a neck, but Dullahans could do it.

“Some of the Gnoll families had children watching the broadcast! They’re all howling and I need something to serve them! The parents too!”

Rufelt cursed. Few of his clients had children, but he could just imagine the scene. He looked around.

“Xif, calming tonics. Can Yeart buy some from you?”

“Send a Runner. I’ll bill him later.”

The Gnoll raised a paw. Rufelt nodded to Yeart. The Dullahan was concentrating. His actual body was writing out a request to be fulfilled immediately by a Street Runner; they often lingered around bars or places where they knew they’d find steady work.

“How heavy are the Gnoll kids, Yeart?”

“Um—young. Some are barely old, but the ones who are old enough to know what happened must be—ten? Eight? And older!”

Rufelt nodded. He grabbed the calming tonic and brought it down so the Dullahan could see. He shot a drink sideways as he made a second one, demonstrating.

“Listen up. You give them one drop per three stones. Estimate low instead of high. Don’t mix it with alcohol for the kids. Give them milk, juice, and mix it in—”

“No milk.”

The two [Alchemists] chorused instantly. Rufelt and Yeart looked over, the Dullahan apprentice turning the [Bartender]’s head. Saliss waved one claw.

“That’s right, no milk. Not if it’s the whole thing. A tiny amount’s good, but milk reacts with the calming tonic. Juice is fine. No carrot juice, though. Carrots mess with potions.”

“Who drinks carrots—?”

Yeart’s mystified voice was lost as Rufelt kept giving him orders. At his table, Grimalkin snorted. Chaldion smiled as he pulled something out of his bag of holding.

“Doesn’t that Courier drink it too, Magus? Hawk.”

“He put me onto it. A nutritious drink. I’ve persuaded Miss Lasica to keep a stock—with some of her classic infusions for muscular growth. Both he and I drink it.”

The [Chef] was known for her ability to make food that would make you shed weight no matter how much you ate. She could also make dishes that gave you energy all day, and so on. Erin was taking lessons from her.

Grimalkin eyed the roll of paper that Chaldion had pulled out. A small box, actually. It was a thick cigar, known as a ‘puffer’ colloquially. Recreational drugs had an uneasy relationship in Drake cities most of the time, and they were almost always imported from overseas.

“Where did you get that, Grand Strategist?”

“The Centaur offered me some. Palt, I believe. Wistram has its tentacles in the inn, Magus.”

“So I noted. Did I recount the incident with them to you, Chaldion?”

“No. But do tell. Hm. Not a bad gift or bribe, whichever he intended. Would you care for one?”

Chaldion offered a cigar to Grimalkin. The Magus shook his head. He stared as a hand tried to sneak up over the table. Chaldion brought his fork down.

He missed. Saliss yanked his claw out of the way just in time. The Named Adventurer poked his head over the table with a huge smile. Xif wore a pained expression as he watched his dining partner. Saliss looked at Chaldion with as serious a face as he could muster.

“What’s the Assembly’s policy on substances in Pallass, Grand Strategist Chaldion?”

“I don’t recall, you brat. Here. Give me yours.”

Chaldion flicked a cigar at Saliss. The [Alchemist] caught it, and flicked his claws. The cigar lit instantly; the Drake had conjured sparks with a little snap of the claws. He puffed twice and rolled his eyes.

“Weeeeak. But I suppose it’s the best a non-Alchemist can make. Here.”

He fished out two dark purple-brown cigars from his bag of holding. Xif coughed—Saliss flicked out a third and spun it across the bar.

“If you’re handing those out, Saliss—”

Rufelt caught the two flying his way. Other people hopefully called out and Saliss demonstrated his uncanny ability to throw. He was in a generous mood, and this was another reason why people tolerated his nudity and personality. Palt might have had decent quality, but he wouldn’t find a large market in Pallass if he tried selling his wares here.

“Magus.”

Saliss offered Grimalkin the cigar with a grin. Chaldion was already lighting his. Grimalkin held up a claw.

“I don’t smoke. I regulate all my intakes.”

“Don’t be a lizard, Magus. We could all use one. This had better not be one of your prank ones, Saliss. Or I will throw you in the deepest cell.”

Chaldion sighed. Grimalkin hesitated. He eyed the cigar and at last, took it, muttering.

“…I suppose I could check my physical changes. I am eating enough to throw off my nutritional charts anyways.”

He accepted it and lit it with one claw. The Magus inhaled, coughed—Saliss grinned as he gyrated back to Xif’s table.

“Where were we, Xif? Ah, right. That fire helps cut some of my processes in half. Nice flame; has a magical influence on what it burns. Useful, once I figure out how to optimize it.”

The Gnoll’s eyes lit up. They were, as always, comparing alchemical notes.

“You wouldn’t happen to have a sample of this marvelous fire, would you, Saliss?”

“Sure do. Like I said, it burns fuel way too fast. But it works on wood; I just can’t let it go out, since Miss Solstice doesn’t look like she’ll give me any more easily. When I’m not there, I have to feed it with charcoal or even magicore; I need a device to toss wood at the fire so it always has something to eat. Then it’ll be cheap. I’m going to bug an [Engineer] about it tomorrow.”

The Gnoll [Alchemist]’s eyes lit up. He had discolored fur and smelled of…everything. Mostly acrid powders or substances, even when he washed. He was the best [Alchemist] in the city—or second-best, if you counted Saliss. But while one was specialized mostly towards war, Xif was specialized towards selling his creations. Naturally, the two were friends. It was that or rivals.

“You can leave it with me. I’d be happy to look after it.”

“Hah! Go eat your tail, Xif.”

Saliss grinned over his shrimp quinoa. Xif sighed; the dark cigar lay at the table, for later. Rufelt had already deployed one of his apprentices with an anti-scent tonic to dab surreptitiously around the bar. It cut some of the good smells, but it meant each booth wouldn’t bother other customers with the smoking.

“Come now, I’ll pay you well—”

“Give me some of your flowers. What’ve you found?”

The Gnoll sighed.

“It’s psychedelic. Extremely so. Magically—I tried an anti-magic blocker, but it went through it. Not sure if I’m missing the components, but it keeps reacting differently. Raw, the nectar has one effect. Mix it with alcohol, and—well, I saw my parents.”

“How awful.”

Saliss’ face was straight. Xif ignored that.

“Almost every bit of it is strongly magical. If I had more, I’d test it, but I’m sure it’s a high-magic sample. As good as Sage’s Grass. It must be due to that inn. The ambient magic is high enough to grow it…I regret pushing Miss Solstice so fast. But I must have more.”

“Can’t you take some cuttings?”

Xif glowered.

“They’re extremely hard to grow. I tried with Miss Velaaia. Twice! They died. I’m not risking my one sample; I’m sending it to Oteslia.”

The Drake’s brows shot up.

“Velaaia failed? They must be hard to grow! I wonder how Erin did it. Say, you do that. I’ll just get more fire from her. And flowers.”

“Don’t you dare. I’ll have them—I’ve been meaning to stop by again. Maybe with a little gift. I’ll tell you what, Saliss. You can probably make a potent sleeping agent. Burning the petals when dried creates an amazing soporific effect…”

“Ooh. Do tell. Can I see it?”

“No.”

The two [Alchemist]’s banter was an anomaly in a sea of talk that all went invariably one way. Belchan, the Gnoll tribes. Tails and Scales was discussing what they’d seen. In fact, Chaldion and Grimalkin soon became a center of that discussion.

“Oteslia will not send an army. Neither will Zeres or the other Walled Cities; the declaration of war was symbolic.”

Chaldion was reassuring some clients. He’d been communicating with the other Walled Cities. He sighed.

“Oteslia does have the highest Gnoll-to-Drake population of all the Walled Cities. The Grand Gardener must have decided to make the declaration.”

“And now it’s war. Good. I say that nation deserves it.”

Felkhr nodded. A cluster of Gnolls and Drakes were sitting together. One of the other Drakes waved a claw.

“But it’s the King of Destruction! He might have cause, but this could all be some—trick.”

“Trick?”

All the Gnolls present looked at the Drake. She wavered.

“Well, not a trick, trick. But a—casus belli. You know? He’s still the King of Destruction. We shouldn’t be glad he’s attacking Belchan. This is exactly what we should be worried about. He was bound by his oath, and if he gets stronger…”

Another Gnoll slowly ground her cigar into an ashtray.

“And? The King of Destruction’s gotten a lot of talk, but I don’t remember him ever attacking Gnoll tribes. Seems like there was one good Human I just saw. And it wasn’t Belchan.”

That provoked a lot of nods, again from the Gnolls. They were angry. The Drakes were worried, but the Gnolls—more than one was nodding at the King of Destruction. Chaldion sipped from his drink, watching carefully as they spoke.

“I remember back when I used to live with my tribe. There were some cities we never went near. Ever. One time, we had to stop at one and the first thing I smelled was a hide cloak. Made of—”

Felkhr made a disgusted sound. Some of the Drakes looked uneasy. But the other Gnolls were nodding.

“Small tribes have it worst. I thought I recognized that Chieftain. Nelrra. Um—um—his tribe’s the Dustfur clan. That’s the one.”

“It’s not all like that. Surely…”

“What would you know? Pallass is one thing. But when they talk about some of the cities—”

“Chandrar looks just as bad.”

“But they have a [King] who went to war for them. That’s something.”

“But they’re not going to the Meeting of Tribes. Or will they?”

“Surely not. But when you think about it, look—I’m not saying I support the King of Destruction. But…”

“White fur, all of them. Do you think it’s really true that—?”

Worrying talk, for some. Rufelt kept his face straight. But Chaldion could see the writing as if someone was indeed scrawling it on the walls. The Gnolls in Pallass, across Izril, were thinking. And their opinion of the King of Destruction was changing.

Grimalkin kept his own counsel, plowing through his food. But he kept a single sushi on one of his plates. And he kept staring at it. The almost unburned cigar lay next to the plate. The Magus frowned.

“Sushi.”

He would remember that.



—-



When the world shifted, butterflies across the world caught indigestion. Or something like that. But concretely, the events such as the war in Belchan could add a dimension to the thinking of Gnolls in Drake cities. It could inform and change the Meeting of Tribes, move a Walled City, from Pallass to Oteslia.

And sometimes, it didn’t matter at all. It was just entertainment. Horrible, but true. Sometimes it would never matter. And what concerned the fate, rights, and dignity of Gnolls mattered little to…everyone else.

Elsewhere, in a farmhouse, Wailant Strongheart leaned back in his plush chair. He waved a hand and nearly sloshed his drink out of his cup.

“Fuck, that’s interesting. Sounds like there’s gonna be another war. Shame about those Gnoll kids. What’s the white fur mean again? That little Gnoll who came over had it. Another drink? Here.”

He waved a bottle at his guest. Said guest refused, and Wailant shrugged.

He was a humble [Farmer], in his farmhouse, entertaining a guest. Although that sentence got almost every nuance of the situation completely wrong.

Wailant Strongheart was a [Farmer]. He was also a [Pirate]. He had retired, but he was still almost as fit as he’d been in his heyday of marauding the seas. He had tattoos, some of them magical, and a magical cutlass.

He was not wearing the cutlass now, but reclining in a chair in his farmhouse. And yes, it was a farmhouse in that it was a house on his farm. But it was hardly…rustic.

The home Strongheart had built for his family was large, and extravagant. Not on the level of say, the nobility, but a rich place. There were paintings by [Artists], one of a ship caught in the middle of a storm, the second of Wailant, his wife, and a portrait shot of his family. There was a little girl in the frame.

Wailant also had a hardwood floor carpeted by a Chandrarian rug. He had a library of books over there—two shelves of neatly arranged tomes, a few old sea maps, and his furniture was all padded. No hardwood backing for the [Farmer] taking his ease.

Right now, Wailant was sitting at a table filled with food. The remains of dinner, rather. He’d had a bowl of the stuff, with some long-grained rice.

It was fried bits of dough and meat. Dumplings. And Wailant actually had this fermented black sauce. It was food from overseas, again. He’d broken it out as a rare treat and to entertain his guest with.

His guest was a Hobgoblin, incidentally. Numbtongue sat in the chair, staring at the small scrying mirror that Wailant had bought to see what all this fuss was about. The Hobgoblin was still a bit tense.

Firstly, because he’d just witnessed the dead Gnolls, the [King] declaring war, and the Hobgoblin felt like he was almost in the proximity of that raging Human, for all he was thousands of miles away. Numbtongue couldn’t help but wonder how you killed a Human like that.

He could tell that Human was strong just by the way he walked; he looked like a Redfang in how he moved. Deliberate. Trained. So had the others. And strong Humans made Goblins nervous.

The second reason Numbtongue was tense was because he was here. In aforementioned farmhouse, with Wailant and…he turned as someone came from the kitchen.

“Did I miss anything?”

“Nothing, love. Just them showing this High King or whatsit. Medain. I remember sailing there once. Ornery bastards, all of them. You can get into a fight with adventurers in any bar in the port. We have any more of the good wine?”

Wailant waved his cup. His wife, Viceria Strongheart and a [Green Mage] from Wistram, came out. She had a bottle in her hands.

“Before we drink, dear—a word?”

Wailant paused in gulping his wine. He stood up slowly. Viceria smiled at Numbtongue.

“One moment, Numbtongue?”

“Sure.”

The Hobgoblin stared. He had had a dinner here. After Wailant had helped smuggle him from Celum, he’d found himself invited—dragged, really—to the Strongheart family farm.

It was a fairly small farm, if you compared it to, say, what Erin might have thought of as a farm from her world. Wailant worked only a few fields, and they were all small. But they had tremendous yields, faster than a regular field by two or even four times. And one of his specialties was the beloved and expensive Sage’s Grass.

It had made the man rich. Wailant, along with his wife, were decent [Farmers], but they were both high-level enough to protect a farm like this themselves. They had magical fences, wards, and—well, Numbtongue had met Viceria.

She was a lovely woman, with brown hair tied back in a braid that reached down to her waist. She wore a robe at home, and she looked younger than she was. Numbtongue only knew she was older because Wailant had told him, and his wife had laughed and kicked Wailant under the table.

The surreal part was how polite she was to Numbtongue. And how relaxed Wailant was. They’d drawn him into their home, treating him like any other guest. And for the Hobgoblin, that was a strange experience.

He’d been relieved that the dinner had been mostly watching the events at Belchan. Numbtongue began to eat more of the dumplings with rice as he listened to the couple in the kitchen. He had good ears and he was still hungry.

“What’s the matter? Is this about Celum?”

“Yes it is. Don’t dodge me again, Wailant. Bringing back a guest? I know something happened. Tell me.”

A pause. Wailant coughed.

“Okay, so I may have been banned—”

“Wailant!”

“Listen, hear me out. There was this [Merchant], see—”

Numbtongue listened to Wailant’s version of the events as he filled his bowl again. What a strange place. Wailant was apparently Garia’s father. And he seemed nice. Numbtongue had still picked his escape route in case this turned out to be a trap. Side window. Two steps and he’d go through. He was pretty sure the food wasn’t poisoned, too, but you never knew.

“—So, there I was, and she rolls on past me with a smirk. I may have done something to her wheels, but I asked her to move first! And then, er, well, she hired a bunch of [Mercs] to threaten me!”

“And you slapped her. Wailant…”

“I know.”

The man’s voice was guilty. Viceria sighed quietly. Numbtongue stared at the two Drakes gesticulating to a map in the scrying orb.

“Wailant…”

“I know, I know. But you should have seen that woman’s face! Riding about as if she owned the road because she had a better class than mine.”

“I understand, believe me, Wailant, dear. But we can’t afford to lose more clients—”

“I’ll take care of it. If I have to find ‘em myself. I can ride to Remendia or Wales tomorrow. It’ll be fine, Vicci. We’re not lacking for gold and we could pawn half of the stuff here if we had to—”

“That’s not the point.”

Another sigh. Numbtongue’s ears twitched. Wailant paused.

“I know. I’ll mind myself. Maybe see about paying a fine? If it takes an apology to get them to let me in faster—I’ll do it.”

“Thank you. And we’ll go together to Remendia.”

“But—”

“We’ll set up the wards. But we go together.”

Wailant made a grumbling noise, but he must have agreed because Numbtongue heard nothing more for a second. After a moment, Wailant spoke.

“You haven’t asked me about the Goblin this entire night, my darling.”

Numbtongue eyed the window. And here was his moment…or was the door better? He had seen the trap runes on the door, but they hadn’t activated. Yet.

But Viceria’s voice was lightly amused.

“What about him? I assumed he was the same Goblin that Garia mentioned. Or is it five?”

Numbtongue stopped eating for a moment. Then, he continued eating because it was good food. His old comrades would have approved of eating.

“Didn’t ask. Let’s go ask the bugger, shall we?”

The two reappeared from the kitchen. Numbtongue waved at them as if he hadn’t heard a thing. Viceria smiled as she sat down.

“Apologies, Numbtongue, was it? Would you like another drink?”

“…Yes. Please?”

Numbtongue stared as Viceria reached for the wine bottle.

“I’ll have some too, lady love.”

Wailant lifted his glass hopefully. Viceria shot him a cool look and served Numbtongue first. The Hobgoblin felt like someone was pulling a prank on him. He hoped it was Erin.

This couple was beyond strange for one reason. Not that they were hospitable. Erin was beyond hospitable and the awe of that had actually faded with time. Just a bit. But Wailant and Viceria were different from even Erin.

“So, you told me a bit of how you got here. Mind sharing it again? Wait till you hear this, Vicci. This Hob apparently fought his way through the Goblin Lord’s lot, ended up near Liscor in that inn Garia likes. Some kind of elite Hobgoblin tribe.”

“Really? Do tell us. The Goblin Lord’s army passed by Celum, but our home was left alone.”

“Good thing for them. The cellar’s strong enough to keep all of ‘em out and they’d have died by the hundreds on the trap spells. Don’t glare, Vicci! I can say that—he’s not one of the Goblin Lord’s buddies. I think. Right?”

Wailant snorted. Viceria smiled as she filled her husband’s glass. The Hobgoblin surreptitiously sniffed the drink. But he was sure neither was drunk yet.

Numbtongue had never met anyone who didn’t care. Not about him being a Hobgoblin in Celum; that was why Wailant had brought him to his home. And he’d certainly tried to beat Numbtongue into a pulp when he’d thought the Hob was a threat.

But when he knew what Numbtongue was, he didn’t really seem to…care. Again, not about the fact that Numbtongue was a Hobgoblin who’d survived against all odds. Wailant respected that. But the sheer fact of Numbtongue being a Goblin who could think? Speak? Wailant Strongheart took that at face value.

Even Erin treated it as a fact to be shared as far and wide as possible. But Wailant didn’t. It was as natural as breathing. A fascination to meet a friendly Goblin to be sure, but not miraculous. He explained after Numbtongue had recounted his adventurers in brief.

“See, I’m not surprised to find a Hob who can speak. Vicci is, but she’s being polite. And she’s Wistram. Used to weird things.”

He grinned at his wife. Viceria smiled at Numbtongue. She had her own cup, which she’d filled with a generous helping of wine.

Numbtongue felt awkward around her; a Human that smiled at him was a rare thing and immediately made him want to check for hidden daggers. He didn’t know her, like Erin or Lyonette, or Octavia and Drassi. He didn’t trust her.

“My husband lacks tact, Numbtongue. But I am open to new meetings. I do know Goblins aren’t savages.”

She gave Wailant a look. He shrugged apologetically as he took a gulp. Viceria raised her cup—and downed it.

Numbtongue paused. The wine was strong. He was on his second cup, as was Wailant. Viceria caught up in one go, and filled her cup. Then she took another deep gulp. Numbtongue had to sniff the jar surreptitiously, but it was the same wine. Wailant laughed as he saw that.

“And my girl calls me a lush. Well, I get properly drunk. Viceria—she’s from Wistram. And [Pirate] ships run out of alcohol! My lady love has two bags of holding in each boot.”

Numbtongue looked. Viceria had sandals on. The Hobgoblin blushed mildly as she wiggled her toes and winked at him.

“You were saying, Wailant?”

“Right. Goblins. I’ve met more of you lot. At sea.”

“What?”

Numbtongue nearly dropped his bowl of rice. Wailant grinned at his expression.

“Surprised? ‘Swhy I knew you weren’t a monster. Mind you, it surprised the hell out of me when you appeared. Sorry for knocking you around a bit. Don’t know my own strength. And I’m good on land or sea.”

Numbtongue shrugged and muttered into his cup.

“I didn’t use my guitar. Didn’t want to hurt you.”

“Hah! See? I knew I liked this one.”

Wailant reached over and slapped Numbtongue on the back. Viceria laughed at Numbtongue’s expression. She floated over a bowl of cold dumplings and made them hot again.

“But Goblins are monsters. Everyone knows that. Not at sea?”

Wailant shook his head in response to Numbtongue’s question.

“Goblins? Monsters? Sure, we know what everyone says. Goblin Kings? Bastards. But Goblins, savages? That’s just what they tell you, in your fancy landfolk nations. Even in Izril; you think you’re free, but all you know is what Wistram and all the other rulers tell you. Like that line about Rhir, ‘the Blighted Kingdom’, hah!”

He was half-talking to Numbtongue as a representation of ‘landfolk’, half to Viceria. She sighed; it sounded like an old quarrel.

“Wailant, they’re right about Rhir.”

The former [Pirate] rolled his eyes.

“Pah, you’ve never met them, Vicci. Demons aren’t so bad. They’re a folk. Drowned Men and [Pirates] trade with them. So do some of the Dullahans. And Drathians. They’re not any more monstrous than the things you can find in the Blighted Kingdom. Like their damned [Flesh Reapers]. I’ve never been far inland, but the Demons are just people. No worse than their enemies, or places like Roshal.”

“What’s Roshal?”

Numbtongue was embarrassed by the laughter. But Wailant explained, pointing at one of his maps. It was of the world, in miniature. The ends of the world were clearly marked on either end, as were major ports. The one he pointed to was on the southwestern side of Chandrar.

“Slave port. Lailight Scintillion, the port-capital of Roshal and the Market of Fables. One of the wonders of the world. You take prisoners, you sell them there. And you never cross the [Slavers]. It’s a wondrous place. So long as you don’t stare too hard at the shadows. I looked, once. And I never went ashore again. I’ve been around, you see.”

“And you know so much more than any [Mage] or educated sort.”

Viceria raised her brows. Wailant scowled.

“I know enough to know what’s whale shit. I’ve seen Goblins at sea. In [Pirate] ships, no less! Even once or twice on their own ships. Nasty buggers in a fight, but they leave you alone unless they’re [Pirates]. You can even trade with ‘em. If you think they won’t gut you as soon as you lower the gangplank. But that was how I was raised. Not on tales of Goblins as primitive monsters and so on.”

He pointed at the scrying orb.

“Wistram is the worst of ‘em all! Damned liars, the lot. Always plotting and tricking people. You saw how they were setting up those freaks in A’ctelios? They were trying to set up the King of Destruction. Only, they got caught in their own trap. Shifty bastards.”

Numbtongue looked sideways at Viceria. She was rolling her eyes, exasperated.

“Isn’t your wife from Wistram?”

The couple laughed. Wailant took another gulp.

“Damned right! I married one of the sneakiest! Don’t be surprised by her nice demeanor. She’s craftier than I am, and twice as evil. That’s how I know they’re crooked as a [Seductress] with a shiv hidden across her back! Or hidden up her…”

He leaned over and whispered into Numbtongue’s ear. The Hobgoblin paused.

“…No.”

“Happened once to a fellow I knew. Then she stabbed the rest of him. I swear it happened on salt!”

Numbtongue edged away from Wailant a bit. Viceria looked at him and laid a hand on her husband’s arm.

“I think it’s time we let our guest speak, Wailant.”

“Right, right. Hey, Numbtongue. You ever been to sea?”

It was a challenge. Wailant grinned, knowing the answer. Numbtongue frowned.

“No. But I have been in the High Passes.”

“Really?”

Both Viceria and Wailant looked up. The [Pirate] gave Numbtongue another look up and down.

“What’d you fight there. Anything nasty?”

The Hobgoblin shrugged, face straight.

“Not too bad. Do you know Gargoyles?”

Wailant waved off the bravado.

“Gargoyles are tiny bastards compared to a Kraken. You know them? Fleet-killers. Like Sword Whales—they literally crack ships apart unless they’re enchanted! Or—Reefeyes. You drop in the water with those and you’re as good as dead unless you’re at least Level 30 or your mates haul you out in seconds. Land monsters—hah! What’ve you killed on land that’s worse than I’ve seen at sea?”

“Crelers.”

The [Pirate] coughed on his drink. Viceria clapped her hands together with a smile, laughing in delight. Wailant glanced at her, and then looked at Numbtongue, casually.

“Oh? Well, they’re twice as tricky in the water. But er, how many did you run into?”

“Thousands.”

Wailant stared. There was nothing for it but for Numbtongue to relate the battle at the inn. When he was done, Viceria laughed.

“Have you done that, Wailant? I think one of your guests has finally told a better tale than a fine seadog.”

“Argh. Do you have to rub it in?”

“Yes, and relentlessly. Wailant loves telling his sea tales, thank you for taking him down a peg.”

The [Green Mage] winked at Numbtongue. He bared his teeth.

“What about your stories?”

Viceria blinked and both she and Wailant laughed.

“I am poor at fighting. The second monster I ever ran into outside of Wistram nearly killed me. It did kill my entire escort, until Wailant saved me. I rather think I’m three times as good at actual combat as I was before we met. There’s a world of difference from learning to cast combat spells in Wistram to seeing an actual monster.”

“That’s how we met, by the by. I saved her, and we got to talking. Among other things.”

Wailant grinned at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin saw his wife roll her eyes. He thought he liked Wailant, a bit. The man was sort of Garen-like. Overbearing, but in a good way to his friends. The [Pirate]/[Farmer] had to recount the story of how he had persuaded Viceria to stay with him, and how she had made his farming venture an actual success.

“Get yourself a lady like I did, Hobgoblin. It’s the only way to live.”

Wailant finished with that sage advice. Numbtongue almost caught himself nodding. Viceria put her hands on her hips.

“And why is it his job and yours to get a woman, Wailant? Can’t we choose?”

The husband laughed, his face flushed with drink.

“Not a chance! Because no lady’d choose one of us, right, Numbtongue?”

He grinned. And Viceria and Numbtongue both burst out laughing. Viceria leaned over.

“Tell me, Numbtongue. I’ve heard Goblins have [Shamans]. Have you ever seen them casting higher-level magics?”

“Here we go. Magic talk. Don’t let her ask you about spells or you’ll talk your mouth off.”

Wailant reached for the wine bottle, found it was empty, and got up. Numbtongue was explaining that the Redfangs hadn’t had many Goblin [Shamans]—a few, but they had died in battle as often as the [Warriors]. Viceria sighed.

“A shame. I was studying different types of green magic. That’s my specialty, incidentally. As a [Green Mage], I wanted to visit Oteslia. Well, I ended up here and I don’t regret it. I had a life of academia ahead of me, and I was rather sheltered—I grew up in Wistram, you know. Most [Mages] do and it leaves us sheltered.”

“Sheltered is better than unsheltered.”

Numbtongue opined. Viceria glanced at him.

“Yes, well, I suppose it is. But we tend to die in accidents, or underestimating our enemies when we leave the academy. I imagine that’s quite amusing to Goblins.”

“A bit. Redfangs…hunt [Mages]. Sort of easy.”

The [Bard] coughed. Viceria glanced at him.

“How so?”

“If we see robes, we run away. [Mages] chase. Forget to put barriers. So then a [Rogue] or [Archer]…sorry.”

Numbtongue gestured, embarrassed. Viceria shrugged.

“I imagine many Wistram [Mages] have it coming. It is an ongoing conflict. But that’s rather disheartening. What happens if a [Mage] is wise enough to keep their barrier up?”

“Run away. Shoot arrows from afar. [Mages] get tired. Have trouble hitting Goblins with [Fireballs], Lightning is the worst.”

The Hobgoblin scowled. Viceria nodded.

“It is, isn’t it? I don’t know if you know this, but Wistram [Mages] duel all the time. And lightning tends to carry a lot of duels. We even have—had—an Archmage famous for her ability with lightning. But among [Mages], it’s seen as a bit of a gimmick. Anti-electricity spells are quite common. And you can stop lightning other ways.”

“Really?”

Numbtongue’s ears perked up. Viceria stared at them and then nodded.

“A rod of metal in the ground will reliably draw the lightning away.”

“Really?”

Wailant returned and had to give his opinion on lightning at sea—don’t do it. Fire was a nightmare on ships. Numbtongue found himself discussing fighting spells, which was something he knew. Before he had realized it, he was in his third cup and everything felt—better.

“Entertainment. You want to see this. You see, on a [Pirate] ship we don’t fight like landfolk. Formations. [Strategists]. Horses! It’s all action! Boarding the decks! And you fight with a cutlass in one hand and a wand in the other! Or a crossbow or something! See?”

Wailant heaved himself up and went for a set of wands in a case. He tossed one at Numbtongue.

“Don’t worry, it’s just [Light Arrow]. Weak spell, but it’s good for fun. Watch—come on.”

He led Numbtongue and Viceria outside. Wailant had, for his entertainment, set up targets, from glass bottles to metal cans and painted targets. No bulls eye targets for him; he’d drawn in glowing paint, or made clumsy illustrations of sea monsters.

“Scit! Scit! That’s the spell. You try!”

Wailant was drunk, but he managed to hit one of the cans on the fourth try. A glowing, orange arrow of light shot from his wand as Viceria laughed. Numbtongue raised his wand, swaying, and tried to aim it. He’d used wands before; they were a nice treasure after a battle for Redfangs and greatly desired.

“Scit.”

The blue arrow shot from his wand, slower than an arrow, but bright and colorful. He nearly hit one of the cans. Wailant laughed as Numbtongue nailed his target after five tries.

“My turn. Scit. Scit. Scit.”

Viceria hit two of her three targets dead-on. She was a good shot. Wailant and Numbtongue applauded, then they took aim at the harder targets. At some point, Wailant decided it was getting hot.

It was a summer’s night and they were still drinking. Numbtongue felt—welcome. He was almost certain he wasn’t going to be attacked and Viceria and Wailant were laughing. And plying him with more drinks. He watched as Wailant tore off his tunic.

“You get naked at sea! Fuck swimming with clothes! Damn them!”

He hurled his tunic to the ground. Numbtongue was nodding—until he saw Viceria toss off her robe. He turned. And then he discovered that nudism was a universal trait. Saliss would have fit right in. And what was Numbtongue to do? Well, Goblins didn’t need clothes either. Just for bugs and keeping warm.



—-



Later that evening, three figures wavered around the outskirts of the Strongheart farm. Lights illuminated the dark buildings and the barnyard animals wisely kept indoors as the three figures shot spells at targets.

They were, all three of them, naked, and shooting wands of [Light Arrow] at some targets on fences, the roof of the farmhouse—a few hanging from a tree—and very drunk.

That was how Garia found them. The City Runner was jogging up to the house dragging a literal door behind her. It was tied to her waist via a rope and she’d pulled it all the way from Celum; a glittering mana stone lay on the front. She stopped as the three figures turned.

“Who goes there? This is private property. Piss off!”

Wailant shouted. Viceria pointed her wand.

“[Light Beam].”

Garia shaded her eyes as the light illuminated her. There was a pause and Wailant shouted.

“Garia! My girl! Hey! Hey Numb-Hob! Look! There she is!”

He poked a wavering figure. As Garia approached and the light turned into a ball, illuminating all three, she saw a naked Numbtongue blinking at her. Garia stared. She stared at her mother, her father, and Numbtongue.

They had no clothes on. Garia threw up her hands and shouted.

“Mom! Dad! What are you doing?”

“Entertaining our guests! Come here!”

Wailant went to hug his daughter. He was very drunk. So were Viceria and Numbtongue. Garia dodged him.

“Put some clothes on! Do you know how worried Erin was? I ran all this way—”

“Garia, dear, where’s your bag of holding? Why are you dragging a door?”

“It’s exercise, Mother! Mother! Put some clothes on!”

“My girl, you get naked at sea. What, do you think you swim with clothes on all the time?”

Wailant paused, addressing Garia—or the air next to her. She glared.

“Dad.”

Numbtongue, head spinning, saw Garia arguing with her parents. He had to sit down. He was rather glad she was arguing about the clothes. It was hard to stop staring at Viceria. She didn’t seem to mind, but he did. Naked female Goblins were distracting enough, thank you.

At this point, Pyrite, who had been silent, helpfully added his memories of naked Goblins, opining that there were only a few differences. He had a number of very unhelpful memories. In vivid detail. Nice memories, but ones that were not helpful here—Numbtongue decided to punch himself in the groin. Then he curled up.

The [Bard] didn’t know Garia well. She’d been in the inn a few times, met him and the Redfangs. Or so he thought? But he really only knew Garia from Erin.

Apparently, she’d changed. The Garia standing in front of her parents and waving her hands was Ryoka-ish. But Numbtongue had never met this Ryoka, so that too was lost on him.

What Erin meant by that was that Garia was slim. She had been heavier, apparently. Which was a good thing for Goblins, a mark that you had enough food to live on, but not for Human females. Whatever the case, Garia had changed drastically when she’d gained the [Martial Artist] class. Her Skill, [Weight Control], had led to…

Well, this. Garia Strongheart was, in Numbtongue’s eyes, a young woman with black hair, not long and wavy but full. She had a bit of blue running through hair, just streaks, a legacy from her mother’s side.

She was also incredibly toned. Slim was not the word. Because slim implied a lack of muscle. And Garia Strongheart had muscle. But her body had shed almost all of its excess fat, and she was much changed.

For one thing—she had inherited some of her parent’s disposition for lack of clothing. Garia’s stomach was bare, exposing some magnificent abdominal muscles. Combined with her emerald green-eyes, a trait shared by all three Stronghearts, she was striking.

Numbtongue certainly appreciated the sight. But he decided not to punch himself in the groin again as he got up. Wincing, he looked around for his pants.

Garia had been shy, loyal, but timid around Ryoka and Fals in the past. But the Garia of today was more outspoken. Certainly more confident as she harangued her parents. But then, she was at home, and Numbtongue had never known the other one. He eyed her as she talked with her parents.

In a way, Viceria and Wailant also explained why Garia was Garia. She had always seemed ‘normal’ in Erin’s description, a good-natured City Runner. But she had an extraordinary family, one she never talked about. But that almost made sense.

If you had parents like Wailant and Viceria, it was hard to follow in either one’s footsteps. And—seeing two drunk parents staggering around blasting [Light Arrows] around at night might make you yearn for a bit of normality.

Certainly, the exasperation in Garia’s tone was familiar.

“Dad, I heard you were banned from Celum. And you hit an unarmed [Merchant]!”

“She had it coming. She sicced a bunch of [Mercenaries] on me. Harpy. Anyways, look what I found.”

“I know what you found! You kidnapped Numbtongue! He’s part of Erin’s inn? Remember? You were supposed to visit?”

Viceria sighed.

“Garia, don’t shout at your father. Why is your midriff bared? And what are you wearing? Are you trying to make yourself a target on the road?”

She pointed to Garia’s wrapped chest. Which was exposing her bosom in a way part of Numbtongue appreciated—and her parents did not. Viceria frowned. Garia glared at her.

“Mom! You’re the naked one!”

“And I am naked at home, with your father.”

“In front of a guest!”

“So? He’s not one of them raping Goblin bastards. I’d cut him apart before he did. Don’t be racist, my girl.”

Garia stared at Wailant. Viceria murmured.

“It’s speciesist, dear.”

“Right, that.”

Garia threw up her arms.

“I’m home.”

She looked at Numbtongue. He paused in putting his pants on and waved.

“Hi.”

Garia stared at him. Then she stared, fascinated.

“Oh…hi.”

She didn’t look away. Wailant and Viceria turned to look at Numbtongue. He hurried to put on the pants. Viceria eyed her daughter and smiled. Wailant scowled.

“Alright, clothes on!”



—-



A little bit later, Numbtongue was eating cold rice and dumplings again. He rather liked it cold; Garia was eating it hot, and her parents were sitting around their dinner table.

Garia coming home was a bit of a rare occurrence, or so it seemed to Numbtongue. Her parents were pestering her with questions.

“And you’ve just been running? That’s it?”

Viceria sighed as her daughter uncooperatively described her life in the intervening months since she’d been back. Garia shrugged.

“That’s right, mom. It’s just my job. You know.”

“Nothing interesting happened? At all? No fascinating deliveries?”

“Meet any [Bandits] on the road? Monsters?”

Wailant was sipping from some milk to sober up. That sounded good to Numbtongue so he helped himself. Garia glanced at him and shrugged.

“I mean, a few. But I’m not a big name, Mom. You know that. I’m making more of a name now; I still do the big deliveries of heavy stuff, but I’m saving up for a bag of holding.”

“You could take your father’s old one—”

“I can afford it myself! Besides, it’s good training. And I’m safe. I can wear what I want; I knocked out a [Cutthroat] on the road and he had a horse.”

“Aha! Tell us about that!”

“I kicked the horse and then I punched him. That’s all, dad. I don’t take risks, like Ryoka. But I’m getting better requests.”

“And how many of them are from young men?”

Viceria murmured. Garia flushed.

“Some. And so what? But I’m faster!”

“Any of them try to put their hands on you? Remember what I said about the plague you can catch—”

“Dad.”

“Wailant.”

The man subsided. He glanced at Numbtongue. Then he cleared his throat.

“So, darling girl. You’re uh, looking different again. Been a while since we last saw you.”

“I lost more weight. See?”

Garia indicated her body. Wailant paused.

“Yeah. Good for you? Anyways, here’s Numbtongue. You know him, from the inn?”

Garia paused. She looked at her father and nodded.

“Yeah. Erin sent me, actually. She’s worried about Numbtongue, even though Viceria sent a [Message] saying he was safe. She’s hoping you can let him go through the door.”

“Bah. Let him stay the night. What’s the worry?”

“He’s a Hob, dad. You said you punched him!”

“I kicked him in the nuts. And that’s because no one told me he was allowed in the city. But now we’re chums. He’s a fun one. And he likes it here, right Numbtongue?”

“Hi.”

Numbtongue waved at Garia. She nodded at him, trying to smile. She glanced at her parents. Wailant was looking his daughter up and down.

“So—when d’you think you’ll stop changing around, Garia? It seems like you’re fine enough for anyone’s fancy. Not that you weren’t before—”

Garia stood up abruptly. She glared at Wailant.

“I’m going to the bathroom. One second.”

She walked out of the room. Numbtongue paused with a mouthful of food. He saw Viceria glaring at Wailant.

“Stop pestering her! This is why she hasn’t come back!”

“I just—okay, fine! Fine!”

Wailant protested as Viceria aimed her wand at him. He scowled and folded his arms.

“What’s the problem? People trying to have sex with her?”

Numbtongue looked blankly from Viceria to Wailant. The [Green Mage] started. Then she motioned at Wailant. He grimaced.

“That’d be one thing. How do I explain to you? Well—just look at her. Look what they did, those damned women. Harpies, all of them. You saw how she looked?”

Numbtongue nodded.

“Seems fine to me. Good muscle.”

He patted one arm. Viceria did laugh at that. Wailant shook his head.

“Not that. Her! Damn, you don’t know what she looked like. Take a look—where’s that picture she made us take down, Vicci?”

“I have it. Here. Before she comes back—”

“She’s probably going for a walk. I’ll keep an eye out.”

Viceria hurried into one of the storage rooms. She came back, levitating a painting out. It was of Garia. The [Artist] had clearly embellished her features as one does for a portrait, but he’d kept what was essentially her. And Numbtongue…shrugged.

“Bigger. Ah.”

He remembered his conversations with Erin, and Lyonette worrying about Mrsha being pudgy. Viceria nodded. Wailant muttered as he stared at the old Garia.

“She used to be a sturdy girl. Not gigantic, mind. But properly tough. The kind you’d see on any crew and think twice about tussling with in a ship fight. Dead gods, the women I knew, who could squeeze your head to pieces with one arm!”

Numbtongue nodded. He knew the same types of Hobs, male and female. He still failed to see Wailant’s problem.

“She decided to change herself. She’s not the little girl I raised. She’s lost weight—I’d not recognize her walking down the street. All because that’s the way she thinks she ought to look. Changing her body around like a Drowned Woman with her Skill—what next? Chop off an arm and replace it with one of them fancy magic ones?”

“Shush.”

Viceria came back around the table with a scowl, having put the painting away. She glared at her husband, looking genuinely annoyed with him for once.

“You should treat your daughter’s choices with respect, Wailant Strongheart. We ought to let her be what she wants. So long as she’s not hurting herself, what does it matter? It’s her choice. [Illusionists] do exactly what she does. Except they can only pretend. I use my tonics and spells; why is her Skill wrong?”

She looked hard at her husband. And Wailant hesitated. He opened and closed his mouth, swallowing arguments, and at last, shook it. He looked at Numbtongue.

“Get yourself a good woman, Numbtongue. And it’s get. No lady’ll fish for copper, eh?”

Numbtongue smiled. When Garia returned, looking sour but calmer, no one said anything about how she looked. And the talk quickly went back to Erin and the inn.

“So there’s this magic door that she got from Albez. I heard about that. The Horns of Hammerad. And they gave it to her and we can walk through it and go to the inn. Anytime we want? And it’s sitting on my porch?”

Wailant stared at Garia. She and Numbtongue nodded.

“That’s right, dad. And apparently, Erin’s banned from Celum. Or—she’s decided to take the door away. There was a huge fuss. The Players of Celum are moving to Liscor too. It all happened this evening. I ran the door out of the city, but Erin’s still dealing with the fallout.”

“How’d you get the door?”

Numbtongue looked at Garia. He had a hard time imagining all the Humans would have let her. She smiled.

“I grabbed it and ran.”

“Hah! Hustle like a [Pirate]! There’s my girl.”

Wailant fondly poured a drink around. Viceria was tapping her lips.

“I was meaning to see the Players of Celum. Everyone’s been talking about them, but we had that infestation of moles, and I’ve been travelling to Wales—this door goes to Liscor? Without any delay? What about the mana cost?”

“It’s a magic door, mom. And Erin’s inn apparently charges it.”

“It must sit on a leyline.”

“It doesn’t work all the time. Can’t send many people to Pallass. Two or four per day only.”

Numbtongue nodded around the table. Wailant choked on his drink.

“It goes where?”

Garia grinned at Numbtongue, pleased at her parent’s reactions. She explained and Wailant’s brows shot all the way up.

“Really? Pallass? I sell to [Traders] going south, but only during the winter. You can’t get bugger-all past the Bloodfields. But this magic door, it goes all the way?”

He looked at his wife. Viceria leaned over.

“Garia, why isn’t this news larger than it is? Every [Merchant] in a hundred miles should be lined up to use this door. Not just them.”

“Well…that’s the reason Erin was kicked out of Celum, actually. She has a deal not to interfere with trade and the Runner’s Guild and apparently people were.”

“Because that’s smart. Hold on. Pallass. Liscor. Anywhere else it goes?”

“Um, the Bloodfields. And…”

“Invrisil soon. Horns of Hammerad are taking it there. Going slowly. Probably because of lazy half-Elves.”

Numbtongue grunted. He refilled his bowl. Garia offered him some of the dark sauce and he poured it over his rice. They were both eating more than Wailant and Viceria, who’d long since stopped; their metabolisms meant they were packing it in.

“This is really good, dad. Is this the rice you grew?”

“Sure is. Beats buying it from imports. Your mother made one of them wet fields. Take a look in the morning. Don’t fall in. We had to enchant it so bugs wouldn’t find a home, but it’s well enough. Pain to harvest. I’m hiring help to do it next time.”

Wailant picked at his teeth. Then he focused on Numbtongue.

“So, this door doesn’t’ go all the way to Pallass. But it can take some people, can it? Pallass loves Sage’s Grass. Say, Numbtongue. You think I could get a deal with this [Innkeeper]?”

Numbtongue looked up warily. Garia cut in as she offered him the last dumplings. Numbtongue took half and she grinned at him before looking sternly at her father.

“You can ask her tomorrow, dad. Mom, can you send a message to Erin telling her not to worry? I’m here, but Numbtongue’ll stay the night. That should be fine.”

“I can go back—”

All three Stronghearts shook their head, for once in unison.

“And let you go without hospitality? We’ve got guest beds. Garia, tell me more about the door. You too, Numbtongue.”

“Dad, Numbtongue’s not the boss. Don’t pressure him!”

Garia warned Wailant. He grinned, throwing an arm around Numbtongue.

“Sure, sure. You don’t speak for her. Erin Solstice, you said? Have another drink.”

And Numbtongue felt a bit uneasy. But Garia gave him a reassuring thumbs-up. He didn’t know what her plan was—until he saw her disappear into the kitchen. When she came back, Wailant insisted on everyone having another round.

Garia poured the drinks. Numbtongue sniffed, smelled the wine and the other, more potent alcohol, and took only a sip. Wailant downed his cup and went over.

“Honestly, Garia.”

Viceria had taken a deep drink, but she only sighed at her daughter’s duplicity. Garia stuck out her tongue at her father.

“He’ll be fine. You want me to help put him in bed?”

“No need.”

Viceria sighed. She flicked her fingers and the [Green Mage] and her husband stood. Well, she was levitating him. Numbtongue stared.

“I’ll put him in bed and give him something for the drink. Too much is poisonous, Garia.”

“And you have all kinds of hangover and anti-drunkenness potions. Dad’s pushy. He’d try and get you to agree to something. Watch out for my mom. She’ll try to do the same, which is why I’m here.”

Garia confided in Numbtongue. Viceria shot her daughter a cool look.

“It’s just business, Garia.”

“And Numbtongue’s a friend. So is Erin. The farm’s doing fine.”

“There’s a [Trade War]—”

“Where are those the disposable wands dad likes to buy each time the [Merchant] comes around?”

The [Green Mage] sighed.

“I’ll put your father to bed. I might be a while. Garia, will you show Numbtongue our guest room?”

“Sure.”

Garia had a mildly triumphant look as she watched her parents disappear. She seemed proud, so Numbtongue kept chewing his last bites. He was stuffed. But drinking had made him hungry again, so here he was.

Then he and Garia were staring at each other. Awkwardly, now. It was the first time they’d really talked alone, for all Garia claimed friendship. She took a sip from her cup. Numbtongue paused and then nodded towards the parent’s bedroom.

“Your mom is powerful.”

Garia started.

“What? Oh, yeah. She is. I don’t really think about it, but mom is a full [Mage] of Wistram. She mostly just uses her magic to help with the farm, though.”

“Can you do magic?”

Numbtongue eyed Garia. She shook her head.

“Basic spells. I don’t have the talent. I have a few levels, but I don’t like studying magic. It’s confusing and it’s a lot of hard work. You have to spend like, twenty years to get good at it unless you’re a genius. And I’m not. Mom offered to teach me until I got into Wistram, but I was a [Farmer] and then I wanted to be a Runner.”

“Mm.”

The Hobgoblin nodded. After a moment, he gestured at the room Viceria had pulled Wailant through.

“Thank you.”

“It’s nothing. Sorry my dad kidnapped you. He’s pushy. He does that to people he likes.”

“It was good. I was hiding from the City Watch.”

“Yeah. Um—so. We haven’t talked much, but I just wanted to say I’m sorry.”

“About what?”

“The…battle at Liscor. Erin told me. I only heard about it. I’m—really sorry.”

“You didn’t do anything.”

The Hobgoblin half-turned away, pretending to stare at one of the paintings. Garia hesitated. She put a hand over the table.

“No, but I’m sorry it happened. I didn’t know the others, or you, really. But I’m…sorry. That’s all I wanted to say. Sorry.”

The [Bard] looked back. He stared at Garia. She flushed, and he wondered if that was what she had been like, from how Erin talked about her. But how much had changed? Perhaps, it was just what Wailant saw.

Skin-deep. Numbtongue paused, and closed his eyes, breathing in, and out. And then he nodded, slowly.

“Thank you.”

Garia smiled at him. She sighed as she put away the plates on the table and tossed them in the kitchen to be cleaned.

“I can show you to your room, but it’s just over there. Say—would you mind following me for a second? Mom’ll come back any second now and I don’t feel like answering questions about what kind of Runner I want to be. Or have her try and get you to sign a contract.”

She nodded towards the door. Numbtongue nodded and followed her.

Garia led Numbtongue a short ways from the farmhouse to the barn. Inside, cows and other animals looked up at the safety-lantern Garia lit. Magical light spilled from it, not fire. Good thing too; Numbtongue was familiar with how fast flames could burn things.

Like [Farms]. He’d participated in more than one Redfang raid for food. The Hobgoblin wished he didn’t remember that. Or the dead [Farmers] who sometimes fought back.

History lay between the two. Garia Strongheart had to have known Goblins are a menace, and Numbtongue had fought and fled Humans. But neither said anything about it. They had history, but the two of them had never met.

Now, Garia stood in the barn and silently adopted a pose. She lowered her posture, changed her footwork, and did…a punch.

Numbtongue stared. It was just a punch, in a rather specific form. It looked…practiced. Garia moved through it slowly at first, and then repeated the move. Faster. She had very good control; the punches always went the same way, in the same posture.

Beyond that…it was just an odd exercise. Redfangs didn’t fight like that. They sparred, or did exercises to increase their muscle, but they didn’t practice this. The [Bard] was interested—and then he saw Garia switch to a kick.

It was another move, a set pattern as she crossed her legs and then kicked out. She was less practiced with this, but she was clearly trying to achieve a perfect form. Again, Numbtongue didn’t get why. You kicked things in any position. But he had to admit, that looked like a powerful kick.

“And then—[Flash Kick]!”

Garia finished her routine with a kick. It came in the exact same motion, but wicked fast. That was a Skill, the kind that could change a battle around in one go. Numbtongue nodded to himself. Not bad for hand-to-hand combat. Garia looked strong. If she had a [Lesser Strength] Skill too, that would hurt.

The [Martial Artist]/[Runner] turned to the Hobgoblin after she was done. She wasn’t panting; she’d done a hundred of each. Numbtongue was sitting on some hay bales, staring at a cow and at her. She waited.

“What do you think? I mean, I think I look good. Right?”

He shrugged.

“Looks fine.”

Garia was slightly crestfallen.

“Is there anything I can improve?”

“Improve? Good kicks. Good punches.”

“I mean—oh, darn. I thought you might know some other moves. Ryoka talked about all kinds of things, but I was hoping a Hobgoblin warrior might know some more. This is martial arts, see. I heard Redfangs were the best. Grimalkin taught me that kick, but he said he’s not a [Martial Artist].”

“Martial…? [Artist]?”

For once, the word was unfamiliar to Numbtongue. Garen had taught his Redfangs all about how to fight different classes, but never about this. But this class was rare in Izril, or anywhere, really. Garia tried to explain.

“Right, I did some research when I first got it. I thought it was a bit weird, but I liked my first Skill, and, well, it’s a new class, right? Apparently they fight with all kinds of weapons, not just fists. But they train different from [Warriors]. They fight like…an art.”

“Oh. I see. Nice moves. But only one punch?”

“No, it’s the form, see?”

Garia showed Numbtongue. She punched upwards, down, adjusting her form but carrying the same motion. Numbtongue began to understand.

“Oh. Good punching. Like this.”

He showed her a punch. It wasn’t the same, but Numbtongue put his weight and body behind the punch, which was essentially what Garia’s practice was meant to do. She nodded.

“That’s right. Only, you do entire moves. Like jump kicks—”

She stopped as Numbtongue did a jumping kick easily. The Redfang Hobgoblin looked challengingly at Garia.

“It’s different. I have a class.”

“Does it make you stronger?”

Garia hesitated.

“Well—I think so. I have Skills like [Basic Footwork], and I’ve actually beaten a few monsters. Even a rabid bear. Don’t tell my parents. I got cut up, but I knocked it out.”

Numbtongue paused. [Cutthroats] on horses were one thing, but a rabid bear? He stared at Garia. She went on.

“And it gave me [Weight Control]. So I could change how much I weighed. And look—it gave me this.”

She pointed at her bare stomach, proudly. It flexed and Garia glanced up at Numbtongue, perhaps hoping for an impression. The Hobgoblin stared blankly at Garia’s abdomen. Then he pulled up his shirt, and pointed.

“Fine. See?”

“Oh. Oh. Wow!”

Numbtongue had abs too. His weren’t as pronounced as Garia’s, but everyone had them. Especially Redfangs; they were really prominent when you were hungry. His had begun to disappear since he’d been eating food at Erin’s inn, but they were still there. To Numbtongue, Garia looked a bit starved for food, but he understood that Humans had different standards.

“You’re in shape! I thought so, but—do you really not practice any moves?”

“Redfangs practice for a fight. Sparring. Don’t practice…”

Numbtongue copied Garia’s punch. She hesitated.

“Really? Well, maybe that will help me level. I’m asking because I want to increase my class. I’m only Level 17 now. I’ve leveled like crazy. It’s practically a record, but I slowed even though I do a thousand punches and kicks at least per day. But I’m sure I need to do something else to level. What if…could you spar with me?”

The Hobgoblin stared. Garia raised her hands.

“Not to the death or anything! Or even getting hurt! Just—to show me some moves?”

She looked so hopeful, the [Bard] agreed.

“Sure. But I’m not a [Warrior] anymore.”

He walked forwards, swinging his arms up. Garia instantly raised her guard and took her stance.

“What are you, then?”

“[Bard].”

Numbtongue feinted and punched at Garia’s stomach. She blinked, and he nailed her in the gut.

“Ow. That hurt!”

The Hob paused. Of course it had. He’d hit Garia hard. Not as hard as he could, but nearly.

“Too hard? Sorry, Redfangs spar like this.”

“No, it’s okay. I was just expecting—okay. My turn!”

That wasn’t how it worked, but Numbtongue stepped back anyways. He saw Garia step forwards and try to punch.

Instantly, he saw the problem. She was doing that same basic move, which was good for about one type of attack. Not a running punch, or if you were backing up. Just step in and—

“Need different move”.

“Hey! Don’t back up!”

Garia took more swings, trying to keep to her posture. Numbtongue walked backwards.

“Too slow. Need different move. Die in a fight.”

“It’s worked so far! Once I hit you—”

“I’m not a bear.”

The Hobgoblin leaned back as Garia punched at his chest. She ran forwards—he swayed upright. But he still had time as her fist came at his chest. He blocked—

The Hobgoblin staggered backwards, stumbled, and caught himself. He stared at his arms and shook them out. Then at Garia. She had a heavy punch. She grinned.

“See?”

“[Enhanced Strength].”

The Hobgoblin narrowed his eyes. Garia blinked.

“How did you—ah!”

Numbtongue jumped at her and kicked. Garia blocked and stumbled backwards. Numbtongue went low, about to hook her legs, but Garia recovered. She was on the wrong foot, and saw him coming in. So the [Martial Artist] in training shouted.

“[Flash Kick]!”

Her foot blurred. The Hobgoblin saw the kick coming, but he couldn’t dodge in time. It hit his guard, and sent him flying—into the wall of the barn. Numbtongue hit the wall, fell down, and lay there.

“Oh dead gods! Are you alright?”

Garia stared in horror, and then dashed over to him. Numbtongue stared upwards at the barn as the cows mooed and Viceria came to find her guest with bruised ribs. Garia apologized profusely, but she did point out she’d technically won.

Numbtongue informed her that he hadn’t used his guitar. He was let into bed with a healing potion for his chest, and slept, reflecting that maybe there was something to her class. She certainly hit like Pyrite. The Hob had opined in Numbtongue’s head that he could have beaten Garia in a fight. For now. But he’d prefer an axe.

The Hobgoblin slept, bemused by his encounter with this strange family. And the next day, the family came to the inn. And it was Erin’s turn to experience the Erin-effect. Only, Strongheart-style.



—-



The next day, Erin Solstice waited by the magical door, a bit anxiously. She knew Numbtongue was safe. Palt had gotten the [Message] and between trying to settle Octavia, Temile and the Players of Celum and deal with the angry [Messages] she was getting from Celum, Erin hadn’t been able to check on him.

But he was her first priority this morning. Garia had assured Erin that her family would take care of him and apparently they were hosting him overnight? That was weird, but it made Erin hope the other family members weren’t jerks.

“What do you think the family’s like? Ryoka visited, but she didn’t say much. Which was Ryoka. You were there, right Mrsha? Are they nice people?”

Lyonette asked Mrsha as the Gnoll cub stood on two legs and waved her wand, creating a bed of grass. Mrsha paused as she began to uproot the magical grass and nodded, vaguely. Erin waited.

The magical door sprang to life and Erin saw bright sunlight. She heard a voice instantly, as the figures on the other side recoiled.

“Buggering kings, it works! Look at that!”

A man stood in the doorway, staring through at Erin and Lyonette. The [Innkeeper] saw a woman dressed in a [Mage]’s robe, Garia, and—

“Numbtongue! Are you okay?”

Erin waved at the Hobgoblin, smiling in relief. Numbtongue smiled back too. He looked fine. She saw him walk forwards—

And the man with tattoos strode through the door. He stared around at the inn, blinked at Erin, and stuck a hand in her face.

“Wailant Strongheart, humble [Farmer] or something at your service. This the inn my girl keeps talking up? Here, have a pie as thanks. Mind if I come in? Dead gods! Viceria, come see this!”

“Don’t be rude, Wailant.”

Erin saw Viceria Strongheart and Garia come through. She found a pie in her hands, smelling of rhubarb, and found her hand being crushed by Wailant until Viceria introduced herself. Numbtongue trooped through and caught Mrsha as she tried to dash through the doorway.

“Viceria Strongheart, at your service. Thank you for being a friend to Garia. I’m sorry about my husband—”

“Oh? You’re Garia’s parents! Right! Wow! Hey, Garia, thanks for bringing the door. Um—[Farmers]?”

Erin stared at the tattoos, a bit lost for words. Wailant had already strode up and down the hallway, noticing the traps. He disappeared through the doors to the common room as Viceria sighed.

“Well, we’re both formerly from other classes. I’m a [Green Mage], and my husband was a [Pirate]—”

“A [Pirate]?”

Erin and Lyonette both exclaimed. Mrsha, wiggled in Numbtongue’s arms as he put her down and closed the doors. She glared at him and then waved, signing in her hand-language.

Welcome back! Meanie!

The Hobgoblin blinked at her.

“Hi. I’m not mean.”

“Hello, little Mrsha! Want to go up?”

Garia bent and gave Mrsha cuddles. The Gnoll happily rode on Garia’s shoulders as Wailant stormed back into the hallway, followed by Palt. Erin’s new regular crew was in today, along with Seborn and Ulinde—the two were in Liscor, comparing potential jobs with the ones from Pallass. Wailant himself was agog.

“We’re in Liscor alright! I’d recognize the lumpy landscape everywhere! So this magic door can take us back and forth as much as we want?”

“That’s right. Um—so you’re a pirate—?”

“What? Sure, sure. That’s right. How does this thing work? Ah! Lookit that!”

Wailant had found the dial system Lyonette had built. He exclaimed as he turned the door to Liscor and thrust it open. A couple of Drakes and Gnolls lined up stepped forwards.

“Oh good. We were—”

Wailant slammed the door. Erin opened her mouth as he checked the dial.

“Liscor. And it even says Pallass. Huh. And it really…?”

He thrust the door open. Erin saw the stone room, and the portcullis. Wailant stared through as a Drake behind the gate jerked upright. He had a little viewing port made of glass and he snapped as he saw Wailant and the others.

“Identify yourself! No one’s scheduled to come through for—”

Wailant shut the door in their faces. He turned to Erin.

“Huh. Touchy bastards, aren’t they? Like half the Drakes I’ve met. So that’s Pallass?”

“That’s right. Um—Wailant Strongheart?”

“That’s my name. And you’re Erin Solstice. Listen, I’ve got a business proposition to you. I’m a [Farmer].”

“Right. And a [Pirate].”

“That’s right. I grow a bunch of crap, but I specialize in Sage’s Grass. I have a harvest ready to go, actually. I’d like to sell to Liscor and Pallass. And to Invrisil if you’ve got a door there! I’ll cut you in on the profits. Just a bit, mind! But you benefit and I don’t have to pay some yapping coin-thief to transport my wares. We both win. What do you say?”

Another hand appeared, pushing towards Erin’s chest. She stared at it, and then at Wailant.

“What? Um—selling—”

“Wailant. Slow down!”

Viceria came up from behind her husband and pulled him back. He grumbled as she smiled at Erin.

“I’m sorry, Wailant was up since dawn thinking about the possibilities of trading his goods to a Walled City directly.”

“Not just to a Walled City! I hear the door’s going to Invrisil too! That true?”

“Oh, yeah. When the door gets there. It should be soon.”

“Then I’ll pay for that too. How about it? Just let me push some Sage’s Grass through. We can do a transportation fee. I’ll make it worth your while. How much gold do you want per trip?”

The [Farmer] was rubbing his hands together. Erin blinked.

“Hold on, I haven’t thought about making any deals. I don’t know you. Um, Garia?”

The City Runner was staring up at the ceiling as Mrsha held on to her head. Wailant snorted.

“What’s there to think about? You want money, I want money, unless you’re daft. You have a door which teleports things! That’s as good as Fissival’s network! Here, we can take it slow if we want. I’m Wailant. I sell Sage’s Grass. Do you know what that is?”

“Dad.”

Garia growled at her father. Viceria elbowed her husband. Wailant sighed, but his wife took over.

“Why don’t we introduce ourselves properly, first, Wailant? Erin, may, I call you Erin? I’m sorry, but he’s still a [Rogue] at heart.”

“Hah. I’m better than a [Rogue].”

The Stronghearts began to introduce themselves a second time. Off-kilter, Erin led them towards the common room, blinking at Wailant. Viceria seemed nice and Garia seemed embarrassed, but Wailant was another thing entirely. He had tattoos. And a cutlass!

And he was a bit—pushy.

Inside the inn, Octavia blinked around her breakfast, which was in itself a rare experience for the [Alchemist]. She sometimes forgot to eat, apparently.

“Oh! Numbtongue! There you are!”

“Hi.”

The Hobgoblin waved vaguely and instantly went over to sit with them. Garia lifted Mrsha off her shoulders; the Gnoll didn’t want to go. Garia looked at her parents, but then acceded as Mrsha tried to steer her towards Octavia and Numbtongue.

“Nice inn. Pretty good. Better than the ones in Celum. This a Skill?”

“That’s right. And the Players of Celum actually perform here. We have four of them upstairs now.”

Erin was showing the couple about. Viceria’s eyes lit up.

“Will they perform here? Tonight?”

“Yup. Actually, they’re moving in, but they’re going to perform tonight, Temile said. Some new play from Invrisil, actually. Have you seen them?”

“No, Wailant, we’re staying tonight.”

“Don’t see why that’s a problem. We can pop through that door anytime we please.”

“If you have access. Mister Strongheart, Miss Strongheart? Can I get you anything to drink?”

“I’ll have an ale.”

“Wine would be acceptable.”

Day drinkers. Erin blinked, but Lyonette just smiled. She elbowed Erin in the back as she passed, which Erin took to mean ‘talk about money’. She looked at Wailant.

“Let me get this straight. You want to use my goods to sell…your plants in Liscor and Pallass?”

“That’s right. What do you think?”

Erin didn’t know what to think. She knew Lyonette was nodding and mouthing ‘yes’, but she was reluctant to make a sudden decision. Her actions had consequences!

“Well—I mean, it sounds okay. But maybe I should consider it.”

“Why—”

Wailant cut off and his eyes crossed slightly in a way that made Erin certain he’d just received a very sharp kick under the table. Viceria smiled at Erin.

“That would be fine, Miss Solstice. It’s a mutually beneficial offer.”

Was it? Erin thought it sounded like that, but she just didn’t know…business-y things. Lyonette seemed to agree.

“It’s a fine proposal, right Erin? A modest fee for transactions and people should use the door to transport cargo.”

“But the Merchant’s Guild in Celum was mad when we did that. Wouldn’t it destabilize the economy, or, I dunno, ruin jobs?”

Viceria was nodding politely, and Lyonette was frowning over her reply. But Wailant just snorted.

“What, screw the [Merchants] out of some of their money and transport fees? Fuck’em. It’s convenient, so why not? To save their pretty little hides and keep things like they have…? No. You have a magic door, Miss. Why not use it?”

Erin understood the content, even agreed with it, but she didn’t like the delivery. She narrowed her eyes a bit. Viceria kicked her husband again.

“Pardon us. I normally negotiate with new clients, Wailant—but my husband’s right in that your door is underutilized. Normally, we hire [Traders] to sell our goods or just sell to them with the expectation they’ll sell elsewhere, Miss Solstice. But you would allow us to sell directly to our clients.”

“Which would save them money and earn us some.”

Lyonette muttered, as if she was spelling it out.

“I’m not stupid! I just don’t know if that’s nice!”

“Nice? Have you met [Merchants]? This is business. Just the other day, I met this one who—”

Wailant laughed and went quiet as his wife, exasperated, pointed a wand at his face. The [Silence] spell made Wailant mouth silent for a few seconds as she stood up.

“Will you excuse us for a second?”

She dragged Wailant over to have a quick argument. Erin looked at Garia. She had pried the furry leech off her head and jogged over.

“Hey Erin, sorry about my dad. He’s a bit…”

“No, it’s fine. I heard he helped get Numbtongue away from the Watch. But he’s—is he really a [Pirate]?”

Across the inn, a Drowned Man’s head slowly turned as Ulinde happily sorted the copies of the adventuring requests they’d taken from Liscor’s adventuring guild. Garia nodded.

“He is. Former [Pirate], but he’s always been like this. He’s actually a good person. He just…pushes. A lot. Please hear him out?”

“Sure. I mean, it’s okay.”

Erin smiled at Garia. Relieved, the City Runner let Mrsha drag her over to the Garden of Sanctuary. She blinked at the unfamiliar door. Erin looked at Lyonette.

“Maybe we should discuss this?”

“What’s there to discuss, Erin?”

“I dunno, ask around. Find our options? Plan?”

“Erin, what’s there to consider?”

“I dunno, not using the door for goods?”

The [Princess] gave Erin a long look.

“…Why?”

“I don’t know! I just don’t ever do—big business deals!”

Erin had literally never held a full-time job in her home. She had played against chess champions, sometimes in front of crowds, even a child, and been on television for brief interviews. But it never occurred to Erin that that was like adult stuff. Which she conflated with anything where you had to sign a contract and money was involved. She was sweating a bit. Lyonette sighed.

“We’re not agreeing to anything. If they try to use a contract-Skill, I’ll stop them. Just do what you think is best, Erin.”

“But how do I trust my brain?”

The question stumped the [Princess] so much that she was still staring blankly at Erin when the Stronghearts returned.

“Miss Solstice, have you thought about the possibility of letting us use your door? We don’t want to force a decision; please just bear us in mind.”

Viceria was smooth and polite and nice. Erin relaxed a bit as Wailant sighed and put on a fake smile next to her. Erin fiddled with her thumbs.

“Well—I mean, in theory, yeah. It sounds good. Octavia—she’s an [Alchemist]—she makes potions. She uses your grass, right?”

“That Stitch-Girl? I sold to her last week! Is she here?”

Wailant exclaimed. He looked around. Octavia glanced up and groaned.

“Oh dead gods, it’s the [Pirate].”

“Hey! Are you in the inn too?”

“Yes! I got kicked out of Celum! Or I left!”

“You don’t say?”

Viceria sighed, but Erin smiled. Then she looked at the Stronghearts.

“I guess it’s fine. I mean, Liscor might wanna tax you and stuff—”

“We can handle that. If we’re bringing goods into the city, we’re naturally going to deal with the city on its own terms. All we ask from you is transportation, and we will pay for the service.”

The [Green Mage] smiled and Erin smiled back, relieved.

“Well—I mean—sure! Let’s talk! Oh. But you probably can’t go to Pallass easily. Or you’ll have to negotiate.”

“What? Why? Pallass is where we need to be.”

Wailant turned about, frowning. Erin tried to explain about the mana cost and the door.

“Hah! Is that the problem? Just upgrade it. I bet you a decent [Enchanter] could do it.”

The [Farmer] waved a hand. Viceria frowned.

“It’s an artifact, dear. I couldn’t guess at what level you’d have to be to improve this door. Archmage Nailihuaile could do it, I’m certain. But anyone below her?”

“Damn. But you can take things through, yeah? How many people’s worth?”

“Two. Or four, but only one way.”

The young woman spread her hands. Wailant laughed.

“Fine, then! I’ll take it through in bags of holding! Unless—no, I have one right here. I just walk through, sell my stuff, and go back. I’ll negotiate with whoever I need to in Pallass—I mean, my lovely wife will.”

He nodded at Viceria. Erin chewed her lip.

“I guess that’s okay. I mean, if you get permission—”

“Let’s make it a deal, then!”

Wailant exclaimed threw an arm around Erin’s shoulders and held out a hand. She frowned and eyed his arm.

“Dear. You’re being rude to Miss Solstice. Don’t pressure her. Some might call that forceful. Or dishonest.”

Viceria’s eyes flashed. Wailant paused.

“I’m as honest as can be! I was a [Pirate], but I’ve turned over a new leaf. Apologies, Miss Erin. You can’t take the salt out of my sails.”

She nodded as he let go. But Erin felt a tiny bit peeved. She was reminded of chess players who tried to bully a girl when she appeared at tournaments. She sort of wished she could checkmate Wailant. But she saw Garia mouthing apologies so she turned to Wailant.

“So you are a former [Pirate]? Like, with a ship? And…you attacked other ships and stuff?”

She tried to imagine a pirate ship without cannons, but they wouldn’t have those, would they? Wailant nodded, taking his seat. He rolled up one sleeve—fortunately not the lewd one, to his family’s relief.

“That’s right. I was a good [Pirate] too. Good enough to retire! But I sailed to every continent, did my fair share of plundering—but I won’t rob you, Miss Solstice! Forgive my manners. But I’ve had a good time with your Numbtongue friend and I’m keen to make some money! Have you heard about the [Trade War] in the north? Damned thing. Put our farm through a dry spell of late.”

“Oh, well…”

Erin glanced at Numbtongue, relaxing a bit. Anyone who was a friend of Numbtongue’s couldn’t be that bad. The Hobgoblin shrugged and smiled a tiny bit, so Erin turned back to Wailant. She had so many questions.

…That she could have asked someone else. As Wailant sipped from his tankard of ale, about to launch into some sea shanty tale no doubt, a [Rogue] paused behind his chair. Seborn, Drowned Man, member of the Halfseekers, and…former [Pirate], spoke quietly, but with that kind of resonance that quieted a room.

“A [Pirate], you say? Funny. I could’ve taken you for a [Storm Sailor]. I don’t remember many Humans in the seas where my crew sailed.”

Wailant—paused. His head slowly turned around and the Drowned Man and the Human locked gazes. Slowly, Wailant turned back to stare ahead. He spoke slowly.

“That’s odd. I could’ve sworn I heard one of those Drowned Bastards talking. But they’re not proper [Pirates], are they? Just water-[Raiders], really. Poncing about in their fancy ships and running from a real fight.”

Erin stared at Seborn. The Drowned Man’s non-crustacean half looked at her, and then he pulled up a chair. Viceria, Lyonette, and Erin all saw Wailant turn. The [Pirate]-[Farmer] paused, then exclaimed.

“Well, well, well! A fellow sea dog! I’d not bet on seeing a Drowned Man so far from shores!”

“Salt and shore harbor you. Friend.”

Seborn, the Gold-rank adventurer, and [Rogue]-[Pirate] rested one arm on the table. His claw-arm, which was part crab, or lobster or something. Erin had never really asked.

Nor did Seborn talk about the sea. She only knew he had been a [Pirate] from Jelaqua or something. But right now…he stared at Wailant. And Erin had a definite sense that his smile was fake.

“What brings a Drowned Man ashore, anyways?”

“I’m an adventurer. Gold-rank. Halfseekers.”

The [Farmer] didn’t budge. He grinned, eying Seborn up and down.

“Adventurer, huh? Respectable, respectable. What, you too tired of the sea-life too, pal? I should’ve brought my deck of cards or dice! Innkeeper, you have any sets?”

“Cards? No, I—”

Erin began, but Seborn spoke over her. She wasn’t really part of the conversation, she realized.

“I just got tired of the waves for a while. As you do. It’s good to meet another of the sea folk. Have you been away from the oceans for long? Buddy?”

Wailant slowly sipped from his mug.

“As a matter of fact, it’s been over a decade. Chum.”

“Wailant…”

Viceria’s tone was a warning, but Wailant just smiled at his wife. She put a hand on his arm.

“Erin! Erin, this is bad!”

An urgent whisper made Erin look around. She got up with Lyonette as Seborn and Wailant kept bantering back and forth. Erin stared at a pale-faced Gnoll. She was unfamiliar until she recognized the dead skin, the peculiar aroma the Selphids used to preserve bodies.

“Ulinde?”

The Selphid [Spellslinger] nodded quickly. Erin glanced at Seborn.

“What’s with Seborn?”

“He’s a [Pirate], Erin. Don’t you know?”

“Yeah, and so is Wailant. Why are they getting mad at each other?”

The Selphid stared at Erin as if she was joking. Then she whispered urgently.

“Erin—Drowned People and regular [Sailors] and [Pirates] do not get along. Oh no. Where’s Jelaqua when you need her? Or Moore?”

“Uh oh. I forgot—”

Lyonette covered her face. Erin stared at Ulinde. Enemies? Why? But now was not the time to ask.

“Jelaqua’s in Pallass with Moore, right? You’ll have to drag Seborn away.”

The Selphid recoiled at the suggestion.

“Me? I’m just a rookie! I can’t—”

Wailant drained half his mug and slammed it onto the table. Erin turned around. The [Pirate] spoke up as every head turned. Some of the regulars were already taking bets.

“Six tables and a chair! At least that, and six silver if it’s below—”

“I bet at least one window—”

“So what’s your crew, Seborn Sailwinds? The Wispguides? Are you part of the Undersea Crews? No—maybe one of the Krakenborne?”

Seborn shifted in his chair and gave Wailant the kind of grin someone saw before they died.

“I sailed with The Siren’s Depths. What about you? Seagrass’ Navy? Bloodtear Pirates?”

Wailant looked offended as Erin edged around the table. She was going to stop this. She began to concentrate. Now, how did it go? She had to pull…or was it—?

“What do you take me for? No, I was with the Steelsails Armada. You ever heard of them?”

“Respectable. That’s a good group.”

Seborn nodded. Wailant paused, staring at Seborn. He glanced at his wife. She glared, but then stood up. Wailant turned back, mug in hand.

“Funny. I’ve actually heard of your crew. Seborn, was it? The Siren’s Depths are part of the Undersea Crews. Pretty good name, right?”

“You could say that. We had our fair share of action over the years.”

Seborn’s Human eye narrowed. Wailant went on, clenching his other fist.

“You know—your ship’s actually sunk some of the Steelsails ships before. Didn’t know if you’d know that.”

“I tend to lose count about land-[Pirate] ships. But that sounds about right. I don’t remember any Steelsails Armada ships personally, but they clashed with some of the Drowned Folk.”

Seborn never blinked. Wailant leaned over.

“Only the bastards that attacked us. Friend.”

The Drowned Man opened his mouth to reply as he tensed. And Erin interrupted both of them.

“But that’s all in the past, right? Nobody is going to start a fight.”

The air grew heavy at the table. Seborn and Wailant looked up. Wailant blinked. Seborn rolled his shoulders. Both men stared at Erin.

And the full force of her aura pressed down on them. Erin wasn’t used to using it; Lyonette said she lacked finessed, but what she had was power. This was her inn. And she was Level 40.

“No one’s going to fight.”

Erin stared at both of them. The pressure wasn’t exactly gravity; if it was, the chairs might have broken. It only affected the two men, and it made movement—slow. Seborn slowly raised a hand, concentrating even to lift it. Wailant stared up at Erin. Then he looked at Seborn.

“Sea salt. Is she real? Or twice as old as she looks?”

“You’d be surprised.”

The Drowned Man gave Erin a cool look. She glared back.

“No fighting. I don’t know what this is about, but I’m not having a fight here!”

“It’s a seafarer’s quarrel, Miss. Mind shoving off?”

Wailant glanced over his shoulder. He had an uncooperative look on his face. Erin glared at him.

“You can sit right here until you make up, then. How about that?”

The [Pirate] eyed Erin. Then he looked at the other [Pirate].

“Salt and sea, this is a strange inn. Well, if that’s the way it’s gotta be, fine.”

Wailant raised his mug, toasted Seborn, and then tossed the contents over his shoulder into Erin’s face. She stumbled backwards, eyes stinging, and her control over her aura vanished. Wailant knocked the table over—

And Seborn’s fist hit him in the face. Wailant went over backwards as the Drowned Man leapt to his feet, but the other [Pirate] was up in an instant.

“Come on, you drowned bastard!”

The two charged at each other. Seborn was smaller than Wailant by a good bit, but he ducked and punched, retreating as Wailant swung and grabbed a chair. One was big and fast the other nimble and faster. But Wailant caught Seborn with a kick that sent him skidding backwards. Seborn flipped backwards and dashed forwards.

“[Dirty Feint]!”

Wailant twisted, arm snaking out.

“[Blur Leap].”

Seborn leapt around him. He got Wailant with three punches, ducked a swipe, and got clipped by a chair.

“Fight! Fight!”

The inn was on its feet as the regulars backed up from the moving whirlwind of punches. The two [Pirates] rolled, fought, cursing each other and swearing as Erin wiped at her face. Mrsha was nowhere to be seen. Viceria had thrown up her hands. Lyonette was getting a drink. Garia was about to leap into the fight with Ulinde when Erin pointed.

“Enough!”

The air grew heavy again. And this time it was weight. Both [Pirates] staggered and stopped, panting. They looked at Erin.

And she was mad. Wailant and Seborn exchanged a glance, and lowered their fists. The room went still. Someone collected their bets on an [Innkeeper] stop.

And a door swung open from the sides. Everyone turned to stare.

Mrsha peeked out from the garden, staring around warily. Lyonette rose.

“Good job, Mrsha!”

The Gnoll trotted out of the Garden of Sanctuary. Wailant stared. Erin stalked over and pointed.

“What was that? I told you—”

Wailant grinned in the angry [Innkeeper]’s face. He raised his arms—with difficulty.

“Sorry, sorry. Just had to get it out there. Can’t let a Drowned Man walk around and think he’s better than a real [Pirate].”

“Seborn?”

Erin rounded on the Drowned Man. Seborn shrugged unapologetically.

“It’s a custom, Erin. His people have killed friends of mine.”

“Custom? You mean, punching each other in the head is normal?”

Both [Pirates] nodded.

“Only way, isn’t it? Can’t let a bastard who’s spilled your crew’s blood walk around. He’s a Drowned Man. They fight other [Pirates]. Think they own the seas.”

Wailant pointed at Seborn. The Drowned Man shrugged.

“I don’t see you breathing in the water.”

“And his lot have sunk more than their fair share of crews. But that’s all. A few punches and we’re set. It’s also part of the code. No use spilling sea-blood when there are all these landfolk around. We’re quits, whatever might have passed. Right, Sailwinds?”

“Fair enough, Strongheart. Let’s call it there.”

Seborn eyed Erin and nodded. Erin stared between the two. Wailant slapped Seborn on the back.

“Then we’ll have a drink, later! We’re staying the night, you know. We can talk about the sea.”

“Sounds good. I’ll introduce you to my team.”

The Drowned Man was nodding. Not exactly smiling, but he’d relaxed. They turned to Erin—the aura was still weighing them down—and gave her a look. Erin threw up her arms.

“What was that?”

“It’s just a greeting. What’s got you so mad?”

Wailant’s flippant remark was the last straw. Erin snapped. She was covered in sticky ale. And annoyed, before the ale had landed. She pointed at Wailant.

“You, buddy! And I don’t think I want to let you sell Sage’s Grass through my inn! I’m not getting in trouble for selling Sage’s Grass to another city! I don’t need to be banned from Liscor and Pallass! And you’re a jerk!”

Across the room, Viceria poured herself a drink and put her head down at the bar. Lyonette gave her a sympathetic look. Wailant spluttered, holding his hands out.

“Don’t be like that, Miss Solstice! It’s seafarer’s—come on, have a drink.”

“I have one on my face!”

“Erin—I’m really sorry. Dad, shut up. Go over there. Here, I have a handkerchief—”

Garia hurried over as Wailant held up his hands in a ‘what did I do wrong?’ gesture. Numbtongue was cracking up a bit, but he went still when Erin glared around. Lyonette came over with some water and they tried to help Erin clean off, but she really needed a bath.

“This isn’t funny!”

“It’s sort of funny.”

“It’s hilarious.”

Seborn disappeared as Erin glared at him. But Lyonette was nodding.

“Erin, give him a second chance. Let’s get you cleaned up—Ishkr! We’re going to need a bath! We have the hot tubs set up, and we’ll have a bathing room when the inn’s finished.”

“He’s a jerk!”

“He reminds me of you, a bit. A male you, Erin.”

“He does not. Stop saying stuff like this! You’re hurting my feelings!”



—-



A bit later, some more guests had come into the inn and Erin was clean. Wailant did apologize, sincerely, as both his wife and daughter helped him and apologized with him. Erin was cooled down a bit, but she did not like Wailant.

He got on her nerves. And Lyonette’s pushy remark didn’t help. But she had to admit, Garia vouchsafing for her parents made sense. And Seborn himself had apologized.

“It is a custom, Erin. I’d have warned you, but it was that or stab him. It’s not just words. His lot have killed Drowned People. Either I hit him or we went for blades.”

“It’s just—fine. Fine. You’re on my bad list, Seborn! I dunno what that means, but you’re on it for today!”

Erin scowled around, but she went back to the table. With Viceria and Palt. The Centaur had come in—he came in every day—and he was chatting with Viceria.

“Mage Viceria, you have my thanks. And it’s a pleasure to see you again.”

“Likewise, Palt. I must say I’m surprised to see you again. And this door!”

Viceria was nodding as they talked. Erin blinked at the two of them.

“Wait, you know each other? Hi, Montressa. Beza.”

She stared at the two [Mages] who were sitting at another table. Beza and Montressa nodded back, polite as ever. Then Erin turned to Palt. He was nodding.

“I stopped by the Strongheart farm on the way here. Miss Viceria is actually a part of my faction.”

“Distantly. One has to be affiliated, but I’m on the outside.”

Viceria smiled. Erin blinked at her.

“Ullsinoi? Hey…are you an [Illusionist]?”

She narrowed her eyes at Viceria and Palt. The woman laughed.

“I’m a [Green Mage], as I said, Miss Erin. Not everyone who’s affiliated with the Ullsinoi faction are [Illusionists]. And it is quite a practical group to associate with. My role is just to supply some of what they need. It’s good marketing, for a [Farmer].”

She nodded at Palt. Erin blinked, and then glanced at the Centaur. He was smoking one of his smoke-less cigars.

“So you grow uh, Palt’s stuff?”

The Centaur coughed, looking pained at Erin’s oblique way of referencing his habits. Which was also how she thought about it. It was still illegal stuff in Erin’s mind, but Viceria didn’t miss a beat.

“Dreamleaf? I have a few plants, yes. I can sell you some, Miss Solstice, if you’d like? As well as a gift, for my husband’s behavior.”

“Erin doesn’t smoke any, Miss Viceria. I know, but she’s strictly against all forms of relaxation.”

Palt sighed. Erin opened her mouth to argue it out, but gave up. Wasn’t it bad for you? She didn’t actually know, she just knew it was illegal—and people had been trying to make it un-illegal when she’d left. But she wasn’t a cool kid, in that she’d never taken up invitations to smoke weed. Or drink, that much. Chess was her fuel!

“We’re just acquaintances. But perhaps Palt can help persuade you to let us have another chance. You won’t have to interact with my husband, Miss Solstice. And I’d like to apologize again—”

“It’s fine. Seborn explained it. I guess it’s okay, but look—I’m serious about Pallass. The door has problems. There’s not enough magic, and people are starting to go to Pallass every day! I sent two this morning—and if I sent more, the door runs outta power. It’s two per day, so you’ll have to sign up, and there’s a waiting list of a month now!”

“A month!?”

Wailant shot to his feet. Viceria pointed.

“Sit!”

“Can’t we charge the door up?”

“I mean, that’s what Moore’s doing, but you have to pay for that and clear it with the Pallass [Watch Captain]. Which I doubt they’ll be happy with. The Halfseekers only get special treatment because they helped save the city. And it takes a lot of mana. Moore can only do it for two people before he gets tired and he has a lot of mana, apparently.”

Viceria was frowning. Palt was nodding as he explained about the issue.

“I can charge it once and halfway. Regular [Mages] would struggle, Mage Viceria, but I’m afraid the door’s under strict control after the Pallass incident. And you know Drake regulations…”

“I see. That is a problem.”

The woman was sighing. It was at that moment when Wailant, glancing at the open double doors leading to the hallway, wandered off. He wasn’t allowed in the discussion, so he devoted his time to staring at the other sights the inn had.

And it had plenty. But the [Pirate] was most interested in the Garden of Sanctuary. He swore softly as Mrsha trotted through it, with Garia. Numbtongue kept glancing up, but he didn’t know what the door was, and Octavia was talking to him, worried about suddenly quitting Celum.

Wailant tried to follow Garia through the door with Mrsha. He slammed against the open doorway, cursed a blue streak, and was grudgingly let in for a look as Erin sighed.

Rather than disappear for a while as Erin had hoped, he came storming out of the door a minute later. Viceria glared, but Wailant strode up to the table with a huge grin on his face. He pointed at Erin.

“Aha! Tell you what—I’ll help you upgrade that door of yours.”

The discussion halted as Palt, Viceria, Erin, and everyone else in earshot turned to look at him. Viceria glowered at her husband as the two other Wistram [Mages] looked up.

“Wailant, dear. If Palt, Miss Montressa, Miss Beza, and the other [Mages] couldn’t upgrade the door, I doubt I could do a thing. Nor would I risk it.”

“Oh yeah? I can do it. And what’s more, I can have it done within a few days! Half a week at most! It’ll be simple and it’ll work.”

“What? No way. Pisces and the others couldn’t figure out how to alter the spell!”

Erin gave Wailant a severe look. He waved a hand, laughing.

“Alter the spell? What am I, an [Enchanter]? I know what Viceria said. Hah! [Mages], always making things too complex when there’s simple answers. I’m surprised your Drowned Boy didn’t think of it. I had the idea when I just saw that magical garden of yours. Safe, is it?”

Seborn glanced up from his table. He was lounging about, and Ulinde was doing little Cantrips to amuse them as they waited. There were board games, but neither adventurer was interested. Maybe Erin did need more entertainments, like cards. Or…pool? She made a note as she stared at Wailant.

“Yeah, it’s really safe. No one can get in, I think. Why?”

“Well, that’s all I need. Pay me and I’ll make sure your door can ferry as much as you want to Pallass! Maybe not all the time, but enough to keep it running with a lot more magical power!”

“Wailant, how could you do that?”

Seborn was eying Wailant. The [Pirate] had a gleam in his eyes and a very smug smile. He spread his arms wide.

“When it comes to fancy magic and whale’s crap like that, everyone has a bunch of fancy ideas. New Skills! Enchant it better! Make a gemstone ley line harnessing all the magical power in the region! But look, if you want magic, why not try a [Farmer]’s solution?”

Erin’s brow wrinkled. But across the room, Beza sprayed her drink out her nose. Palt’s mouth opened and the cigar dropped on the table as he got what Wailant was saying. Viceria sat up.

“You don’t mean—”

“What? What?”

Erin looked around. Wailant’s grinned.

“Miss Solstice, did you know Sage’s Grass is magical stuff? It grows and generates magic. Like rare monsters. That’s why [Alchemists] love it. If you want free mana, just plant a bunch of Sage’s Grass and crap around the inn.”

For a second Erin stared. Then she looked at Palt.

“Wait, would that work?”

“I—”

The Centaur hesitated, and then turned beet red. Wailant laughed, pointing at his face.

“Why not? See? He didn’t think of it! None of you fancy robes did! Tell ‘em, Seborn!”

The Drowned Man rose. He nodded at Erin.

“Now he says it…Drowned Ships have tanks full of Gleamshrimp and magical underwater plants. They can power an entire ship barrier spell. But I’ve never seen a landfolk version of that.”

“Well, I have. And I’m a farmer and I know it can be done. Tell you what, I’ll sell your [Innkeeper] girl a field’s worth of Sage’s Grass—if she can meet my price. And I’ll give her a small discount if she lets me sell to Invrisil direct!”

Wailant jerked a thumb towards his chest. Erin stared at him. It couldn’t be that simple, right? She looked at Viceria, but the [Green Mage] was smiling. And Palt—

“Would that work, Palt? Really?”

“Er, give me one second, Erin. I need to confer with—”

Palt got to his hooves. He hurried over to the table with Montressa and Beza. Even Ulinde rejoined them for a moment. They moved into a huddle and began discussing. Erin heard things like ‘natural leyline’, ‘ambient mana distribution’, and so on being tossed around. And then silence. Then the [Mages] began to argue hotly.

After a while they began to raise their voices and push each other. And given that one was a Centaur, the other a Minotaur, a Gnoll’s corpse and the fourth a slim young Human woman, Montressa got the worst of it.

“Hey! What’s going on?”

Erin looked at them. The Wistram [Mages] turned back to her, looking shamefaced.

“Er, we’re trying to assign blame over which of us is to blame for not coming up with that idea.”

“Hah! Told you!”

The [Innkeeper]’s jaw dropped as Wailant strutted forwards. Montressa closed her eyes.

“Oh dead gods. Are we less intelligent than him?”

Erin turned back, and the [Pirate] winked at her.

“Gotta think practical, Miss Erin Solstice. Like a [Pirate]. So, we making deals or what?”

He held out a hand. Erin blinked at him. She slowly walked over to the table as he smirked with self-satisfaction—

And tossed a drink at him.



—-



A while later, Wailant sat at the table and spoke numbers. He was in a good humor despite being sticky with ale. As he put it, it made them quits. Erin didn’t know about that—she held a grudge—but she was willing to put all that aside.

“A Sage’s Grass garden. You see, the normal issue is that magical plants, especially Sage’s Grass, attracts monsters and pests. But you’ve got a damned good Skill. I know [Farmers] who’d sacrifice their children for a Skill like that.”

Wailant was explaining as he gestured towards the Garden of Sanctuary. Lyonette, Palt, Viceria, Montressa, and everyone else interested in this deal was gathered around, which was practically everyone, really. The [Pirate] was explaining to them how it would work.

“We’ll plant a field right in the middle of the garden. The Sage’s Grass will generate mana, and the door’ll use it. The more Sage’s Grass, the more power recharging that door-thing. Won’t cost you much, either! For planting and us getting the seeds grown—Sage’s Grass dies if you uproot it, damn fragile—it won’t cost you more than…six hundred gold?”

“Six hundred?”

Erin exclaimed, worried. She’d been paid more than that by Ilvriss for her part in fighting the Raskghar, and she knew how much the Horns and the Halfseekers had made, but Lyonette was already spending a lot on the inn! Wailant snorted.

“For an entire field’s worth. A single plant grown to maturity with multiple leaves—with our quality and size, not wild-grown—is three gold pieces. Might not even be that much! Say it’s only sixty Sage’s Grass that you need to keep that door charged. Actually, I remember selling thirty-eight last year to some Gnoll in Pallass. Gouged him a bit, but we’ll give you a friendly rate. So—thirty eight times three…you do that math.”

Erin paused. She could do that math, but she would have liked a calculator. Erin’s mouth moved wordlessly. Half the people in the crowd and the [Mages] instantly began adding up. But it was Wailant who beat them all.

“38 shares of 3 coin’s loot makes out to 114 gold pieces. Which is nothing. I bet you this inn pulls in that much in a month, at least, eh? Hold on, if each customer pays about a silver coin’s worth per night, which used to be standard in fare, but if we assume one silver coin and eight which is the standard for pricy damn inns, multiply that by say, an average visitor number of say, eighty bastards per night, that’s…7 gold and 4 silver if I’m right.”

Erin stared. Wailant was counting on his fingers. He shrugged.

“Could be off. Call half that for paying staff and food. You’re looking at 3 gold and 12 silver. Which means you’d pay off a field’s earnings in a month and a day on your daily profits alone! I’m the bastard being set up here!”

“Wait, your math is wrong. I’m not getting that. Wait—how much per each coin?”

Erin was trying to confirm the [Pirate]’s quick calculus. Lyonette whispered to Erin.

“It’s 10 coppers per silver, and 20 silver per gold piece. I think he’s close, Erin. How in the world…?”

Wailant grinned.

“Pirate’s math. Can’t be off when you’re calculating your haul in front of a group with quick hands. See? It could be cheap! But let’s count on an entire field since you’re using that door. Happily, I have a full stock of seeds since we just finished the first harvest…so let’s call it two hundred plants and go up?”

“Two hundred? Wait, that is six hundred gold.”

“Exactly, and we’re selling it to you at the base price. Because we’ll be using your door. Normally, we’d mark it up.”

Wailant tucked his thumbs in his belt. Viceria nudged him.

“Make it eight hundred gold, Wailant. Or four gold and six silver per plant if we go lower. We have to pay more for fertilizer since the trade war’s cutting off our usual supplier.”

“Mom! Erin can’t pay for that!”

Garia protested. Her parents both stared at her, looking hurt at this betrayal. Wailant shook his head.

“Why not? She’s got a magic door, right? She can charge a mint for it! And we have to look out for the farm, Garia. Don’t want your parents to starve, right?”

The City Runner folded her arms. Erin saw Beza surreptitiously flexing her abdomen behind her. Ulinde was staring. Selphids had a thing for bodies.

“Starve? You bought that wine from Chandrar! And Mom said you bought fourteen books—and a bunch of that Terandrian beef! You didn’t even give me a steak when I came home!”

“Yeah, well, it was too good to leave. Come back home more often.”

“But what if I can’t afford it? Lyonette, can I afford it?”

Erin turned to the [Princess]. Wailant waved a hand.

“Not to worry. You live here. Have a little Gnoll kid and an inn? You’re not going anywhere. I’ll take installments. We’ll work out a contract. Not even a blood contract! We’ll just sign a basic magic contract. We have some, right, Viceria?”

“That’s correct.”

“Mother! Erin’s my friend! Lower the price a bit!”

Garia was red-faced. But her father just laughed. He wagged a finger at Erin.

“Sage’s Grass farming is expensive. Growing the damn stuff and protecting the fields takes a lot of our profits! Not to mention hiring help for harvests, er, mental stress, and so on. Three—four gold a plant? I’m dying here. Do you know how much it costs to ward my fields from monsters? Hire help? Buy a new wagon?”

“And what about me? Having to pay for all this and run my inn?”

“Well, I suppose that’s part of our deal to transport goods. Which is why, if you give us a fair bargain on our contract, we could lower that price a bit. But we’re the ones suffering here.”

Wailant hugged his wife, grinning unrepentantly. Erin stared at him. He rubbed her the wrong way a bit, but she almost liked him despite that. And he was a [Pirate], even a former one.

“We’ll…talk.”

Lyonette was gearing up for a battle; there was no way she was sitting this one out. But Viceria was smiling and Erin was sure that a [Farmer] who sold magic grass had to be good at bargaining—and it wasn’t Wailant who did the bargaining. But the [Pirate] was in it. He held out a hand and Erin finally shook it. He grinned at her, and grabbed two tankards from Ishkr’s tray.

“Let’s talk it out over another drink.”

He toasted her, a gleam in his eyes. Erin looked at the [Pirate]. Then, she shrugged and drank.

[Immunity: Alcohol], on. Wailant’s eyes bulged as he tried to keep up.

In retrospect, that was his one big mistake.



—-



Later that day, the contract was settled. Viceria and Wailant were residing at the inn, having completed a contract that Erin was fairly happy about. And they were not alone.

The Halfseekers had arrived and Moore had joined Viceria and Palt as she toured the garden, exclaiming over the unique, separated biomes. Wailant was drinking with the other Halfseekers and sharing sea stories.

“I understand the Ullsinoi’s interest. That is a fascinating garden. Mage Moore—”

“Just Moore. I’m not Wistram-trained.”

The half-Giant was bowing, smiling as he spoke to a fellow [Green Mage]. Viceria laid a hand on his arm.

“Mage Moore, have you thought about growing anything in there? The Sage’s Grass won’t take that much room, and there are multiple plots of land, each with their own environment. Miss Solstice has a treasure, truly. The greatest upside will be that it will be free from monsters and pests seeking to eat the magical plants.”

The half-Giant smiled with pleasure. Palt cleared his throat, and nodded around the garden and back towards the inn. Erin was talking with Belgrade about tables which were pools—the Centaur itched to listen in, but this was more important.

“I’m trying to negotiate on her behalf. Which means, Mage Viceria, if you’d care to involve your farm, I’m sure the Elusive Lot would make you a deal—”

“We will pass. My husband would cause more trouble than not. However, I foresee a mutually beneficial relationship, assuming Miss Solstice allows us to transport Sage’s Grass.”

Viceria gave Palt a smile and the [Illusionist] sighed. Well, he’d expected as much. He turned his attention to the garden.

“Perhaps a bit of dreamleaf…I don’t suppose we could alter Miss Solstice’s opinions? She’s rather set against…any drugs.”

“Hm. I could try. What is her holdup?”

“An objection to them in principle.”

“Has she tried them?”

“No. I think they were banned in her city, or nation.”

“Well, it is an issue. I could speak to Miss Solstice. Although, myself, it’s not a hobby I’ve ever indulged in. But I’m familiar with it.”

“You don’t try anything, Moore?”

Palt and Viceria looked at him. The half-Giant shrugged, self-consciously.

“At my size, I couldn’t afford—”

He stopped as the two instantly dug in their pouches and began to confer over the best plants.



—-



Inside the inn, Lyonette was speaking with Octavia. The [Alchemist] was in a kind of limbo, as were the Players of Celum. But they were setting up for a play; she couldn’t, since she had no shop to work in. But Lyonette was doing her best to make the Stitch-Girl more comfortable and reassured about the future.

“We’ll have Belgrade build your shop as soon as he’s done with Erin, Octavia. I promise. You can even design your shop, which has to be a plus! Right now, let’s talk about um, explosiveness and Mrsha…”

All throughout the inn, people were excited, talking, making plans. And that meant the little white Gnoll wandering around from person to person found no one to play with.

Not even Garia! The City Runner was in a discussion with Beza about [Martial Arts], and Mrsha didn’t like Beza. Disconsolate, Mrsha wandered around. Everyone was too busy for poor Mrsha! Even Apista! She was clinging to the ceiling after sipping from the faerie flowers. She was off the wagon.

And then she spotted someone who’d almost been forgotten amid the chaos. Someone who wasn’t part of all the big things.

Numbtongue. He, like Mrsha, didn’t have to make adult decisions. He didn’t think about gold or stuff like that. He was sitting at a table, having lunch as he read from a book he’d borrowed from Wailant’s collection. He looked up as Mrsha raced over to his table and waved at him.

“Hm?”

Mrsha made sure she had his attention. Then she began to sign with her paws. She had her own language now, and she could express ideas to anyone who had studied Mrsha-signing.

Come, come! Exciting!

She knew Numbtongue understood her. The Hobgoblin paused, and carefully closed the book. Then he raised his hands and signed back.

How much?

Mrsha nearly fell over in surprise. But—the Hobgoblin looked at her expectantly and she remembered. He was Numbtongue. The [Bard]! And a Goblin. Of course he had learned this language, just like he’d learned the common tongue.

Mrsha stretched her paws wide as she could.

This much! Very exciting! Come!

Numbtongue stood up. He paused as Moore, Viceria, and Palt hurried out to go outside for a smoke. Somehow, they had a feeling the garden was not the place for it and none wanted to arouse Erin’s wrath. The Hobgoblin had seen the door of course, but Erin had promised to explain it.

Now, however, prompted by Mrsha, she tugged him into the doorway. And at last, he entered the Garden of Sanctuary.



—-



It was magical. Beautiful. And oh, so very safe. The Hobgoblin [Bard] stared. Mrsha ran about him, showing him flowers, the different spots. But the Hobgoblin just stared.

A safe place. Literally, a safe place filled with plants. It was…incredible. Stunning. He slowly walked up the hill, looking at flowers, peering at mushrooms. He even ate one and confirmed it was, indeed, a mushroom.

So caught up was Numbtongue that he barely noticed the Antinium Worker standing on the hill. Mrsha paused as she raced up the hill, because here was another member of the Erin family household.

Bird. The Worker was spreading his arms as he stared up at the sky. Rather reminiscent of the way he’d stood on the Wyvern’s head in Pallass, actually. But he was just staring up, at the opening in the dome.

Birds were flying overhead. The Worker was staring at them. He turned his head as Mrsha and Numbtongue crested the hill.

“Oh, hello. Mrsha and Numbtongue. I am not shooting birds. Just staring.”

The Worker waved with one of his four arms. Mrsha somersaulted over to him and Numbtongue waved. He’d gotten to know Bird more since their illicit drinking and Wyvern eating sessions.

“Bird. Hello.”

“Hello, Numbtongue. I have already said hello, but hello again. I heard you were abducted. Now you are here. Do you see the birds?”

The [Bard] looked up.

“Yes.”

“They are flying. They fly away when they see me or the Workers, but if I stand here, they cannot see me. I wonder if I shoot them, will they die? From inside here?”

Bird stared up at the magical opening to the sky. He shook his head slowly.

“But I am banned from shooting birds. Which is sad.”

Mrsha tilted her head. She wasn’t exactly sure why Bird liked killing birds. She waved her paws and the Worker looked down.

“Why do I like killing birds when I like to fly? Because…flying things taste good. And I am jealous they fly. So perhaps we are enemies. But I would be sad if all birds died.”

The logic was far from undeniable. Mrsha and Numbtongue exchanged a look, but the [Bird Hunter] just stood, staring up at the sky. He seemed very content to do just that. Numbtongue looked around.

“Wow.”

He’d heard Erin using the word, but this seemed like the appropriate time for him to use it himself. Mrsha nodded. She ran away and raced back with an armful of flowers. She tossed them at Numbtongue. He grinned.

“Tasty?”

Mrsha sniffed at them and shrugged. The Goblin ate a few.

“Bitter. But good. This place is so…large. It can grow lots of food.”

Mrsha nodded excitedly. So did Bird.

“Very defensible. And there is even food so we will not have to eat each other during a siege.”

“Good point.”

Numbtongue and Bird were on the same wavelength about a lot of things. They stood and chatted as Mrsha raced down the hill to show them more things. And pouted when they didn’t immediately follow. They strolled after her.

“So were you kidnapped? I did not ask.”

“No. Strange Humans took me home.”

“Were they nice?”

Numbtongue rubbed his chest where he’d been kicked. And recalled that he’d been hit twice in the groin since meeting Wailant, albeit once self-inflicted.

“Sort of. Not sure. One is…annoying. Sort of.”

“Would you like me to shoot him? Accidentally?”

One of Bird’s antennae waved winsomely, the equivalent of him winking. It was such an Erin gesture that Numbtongue and Mrsha instantly assumed she’d taught him that. He laughed.

“No. But thank you.”

“You are welcome. Oh look. Mrsha has found water. I will die in water, but only if I drown. Belgrade is afraid of it.”

Bird still strode up to his knees in the pond. He splashed around merrily, and Numbtongue marveled.

And Mrsha—smiled. She waved and the two, Hobgoblin, and Worker, jogged after her, all too willing to let her show them about. And they had time for it. Neither one said ‘we have to do this now, Mrsha’, or ‘maybe we’ll play in a bit, Mrsha’. They were all-in. And Mrsha looked at them and tentatively asked a question. Bird and Numbtongue stared down at her paws.

Do you want to play?



—-



A few minutes later, Bird poked his head up in the tropical section of the garden. A little, white, furry shape was hiding in a bush. It had taken him a while to find her, with her Skills, but Bird was persistent.

He was also monologuing. Bird whispered as he crept up on the bundle of fur.

“This is Bird the [Hunter]. I am now in sight of my quarry. And now I will sneak up on the helpless Gnoll. I am going to eat her. Probably. Although she might not taste good.”

The bundle of fur quivered with anticipation as the Worker stealthily made his way towards her. Again, except for his voice.

“She has no idea of my approach. And now I will grab her, braise her in a pot—aaah! AAAAAAH!”

He screamed. And Mrsha screamed, silently, and ran. Bird ran after her, still screaming. Numbtongue, hiding in his tree, fell out of it laughing as Mrsha bolted across the garden. Bird kept chasing her until he grabbed her up, and then the Gnoll fought as he bit her gently with his mandibles.

And Mrsha was so happy she nearly threw up laughing and giggling. She had made a discovery today. And that was that Bird and Numbtongue were a thousand times funner than Lyonette and Erin.

Lyonette and Erin were like…Urksh. They were good. But they could be strict! Or mean! You went to them when you wanted to be hugged, or cuddled, or if you were sad. But they couldn’t run about forever. Erin would flop over and gasp for air, even if you jumped on her back. And she and Lyonette got angry at pranks, or just ran out of energy. They had ‘things to do’.

But Bird? Numbtongue? They didn’t get tired. And they knew how to play. When they played tag, they sprinted. Bird might have been slow, but he had a tactical mind that meant he’d run through some of the prickly bushes that Numbtongue and Mrsha refused to dash into. His armored chitin didn’t mind one bit. And Numbtongue was fully willing to throw the ball all day.

“Catch. Catch!”

Bird happily threw the ball in a triangle and Mrsha dashed back and forth, catching her ball and throwing it clumsily. The [Bard] drew his guitar, thwacked his ball across the garden—it bounced off the other side of the dome. His [Reinforced Guitar] meant he could do that with impunity and it made a lovely sound each time he did.

And when that was done? They invented the greatest game ever, totally by chance. Mrsha went soaring through the air as Numbtongue grabbed the ball and she refused to let go. So he threw her at Bird.

The Gnoll flew through the air, screaming silently. She howled when she landed, the only sound she could make, and Bird looked at her.

“Is this a good howl or a bad one?”

Again, again! Mrsha raised her arms and Bird obligingly tossed her back. Numbtongue grinned and caught Mrsha. This time he threw her high and Bird opened his arms to catch her.

“This is almost as good as flying. I am most envious of you, Mrsha. Fly! Fly!”

Mrsha did, flailing her arms and laughing in the air. This was the most fun ever! She went up, panicked as she saw no Numbtongue and fell back to earth—

And the Hob slid down and caught her. Mrsha laughed and smacked his head as he began to heave her, this time towards the pond.

“Numbtongue! Bird! Stop that at once!”

Their game of ‘Toss the Mrsha’ was interrupted by Lyonette’s angry voice. The [Princess] had come into the garden to show Wailant around and she pointed at the trio with horror. She strode over and immediately began to lecture.

Numbtongue and Bird endured the tongue-lashing as Mrsha tried to protest. But Lyonette was adamant. No games that involved Mrsha possibly landing on her head! The trio walked away as Wailant stared about, exclaiming again and pointing out a good spot to grow the Sage’s Grass.

“Mean. So strict. Poor Mrsha.”

The Hobgoblin [Bard] squatted in the grass as Mrsha rolled over on her back. She nodded rapidly, and Bird nodded too.

“And she does not let people eat birds. She is very mean. Mrsha must be very sad.”

They understood! Mrsha looked up at them and felt…a kinship. Like Relc, actually. Numbtongue and Bird looked at each other and the Antinium’s mandibles opened and rose. Numbtongue grinned, the same expression on a different face. And Mrsha’s tail wagged and she rolled over.

“Let’s go outside to play next time. Somewhere else. Maybe Strongheart farm. Have wands. Can shoot arrows at targets. Birds?”

“Ooh. Ooh. But that would be breaking the rules.”

“Only bad if they find out.”

The Hobgoblin grinned. And Mrsha’s ears perked up. She looked at Numbtongue.

He was actually…her age. Maybe even younger than Mrsha. Goblins lived short lives. And Bird was two. Mrsha pointed this out and Numbtongue and Bird blinked at her.

They were a family. Erin had called them that, but it had really been them connecting to her. Which wasn’t a family. But now—Mrsha felt close to the two of them. And if they were a family, that might mean she was the big sister!

She pointed a thumb at her chest, emphasizing that last point. Bird and Numbtongue exchanged a glance. The Hobgoblin grinned.

“No.”

“I do not believe that is how it works.”

Bird shook his head slowly. But he smiled, and Numbtongue laughed.

“Should go outside more. Too much inside. Garden is nice. But good things are out there. Will take next time. Not inside caves, but somewhere.”

He pointed towards the sky. Mrsha looked at him. Bird nodded.

“I will go too. I am not allowed to shoot birds, but maybe if I go with you, Numbtongue, and a bird attacks Mrsha, I will kill it. In self-defense. Yes. Yes.”

He rubbed all four hands together. And Mrsha laughed. Then she sat upright as a bolt of inspiration came down from her from above.



And lo. Mrsha’s fur stood on end as she looked at her two companions. No, family. No—teammates.

There came a time when the great wizard of the inn found she was alone. And her power waned in the age of mortals, and the Defenders of the Cave were too far gone, in lands forbidden by the [Princess] of the Inn. So the mighty wizard stood alone.

But she was not alone. For came the singing Green Bard, and the mighty Sky Hunter. And they joined the wizard on more great quests of bravery and glory.

In days to come, in days of yore, they would be known as the most famous adventurers to ever live. The Mrsha Adventuring Team would travel the world, led by Mrsha the Great and Terrible!

The little Gnoll looked up. And Numbtongue grinned at her. And his crimson eyes shone with that wild light of the free. It was a dangerous thing. Because you couldn’t cage them. And Bird stared up at the sky, and he had never been caged by his Hive.

It was the beginning of something powerful. Something new, and definitely not child-safe. And here Lyonette thought she was being astute by making anti-Mrsha precautions with Octavia. She had no idea, no idea at all.

But in time, Mrsha recalled one last thing. And she looked up at Numbtongue and pointed. The Hobgoblin turned his head and saw the last hill, that she had not gone near the entire time. Wailant could not see it. It was only there if you looked for it.

“What is that?”

Mrsha stood up. She looked at Bird. And the Antinium nodded.

“Go. I will stay here in the sun. I cannot be with them forever.”

So the little Gnoll stood up on two legs. And she reached out. Numbtongue paused, because Mrsha’s face was suddenly grave. He took her paw. And she led him up the hill. Past the meadow of flowers. Higher, to a place with fog.

And the statues. And Numbtongue stared. He recoiled. And the [Bard]’s eyes went wide. He stumbled forwards. Then, he fell to his knees.

Mrsha stared. There they stood.

Goblins.

The mists cleared, and they stood or sat on the grassy hill. Goblins. Too many to count. They had not been there for Mrsha, or even Erin. It was as if they had been waiting for him. Now, they were here.

Goblins. Every one Erin had known. And she had known so many. From the Goblins who she had buried, that a Senior Guardsman had killed so long ago to the ones who had died…it felt like yesterday. But it was three of them that crushed Numbtongue’s chest, made him bow his head and clutch at the grass.

Bugear, Headscratcher, and Shorthilt. They stood together. Bugear’s sword was drawn. Shorthilt was kneeling, maintaining his blade. And Headscratcher was leaning on his axe.

They stared ahead, towards some foe in the distance. None of them were relaxed. That was not how they had lived or died. But they looked—content. And they stood as part of a group.

But their companions Erin had not known. And it was enough. Numbtongue could see the others, as if they stood there. He curled up, tears, running from his crimson eyes. And then he looked. He had to.

So many faces. Spiderslicer, sauntering out of the inn for a duel with Redscar. Noears, laughing as he had in his last moments on the roof of the inn. Eater of Spears, a silent shadow.

And—Garen Redfang. He sat on the back of a Carn Wolf, and stared down at Numbtongue. Even him. The [Bard] looked up.

“Chieftain.”

He touched at his heart. And he knelt.

They were all there. Goblins whom Erin had known but for a moment. But she cared. Pyrite should have been there. But she had never known him. And the others—

Pyrite was not there. But another Goblin sat, at the lonely table made of stone. Next to Garen. Numbtongue had almost missed him. But now he saw the last Goblin, smiling with bitter regret.

Reiss.

He looked as he had when Erin had seen him die. A hole in his chest, held together just by will and a [Necromancer]’s magic. Dying. Numbtongue looked at his face. He looked at Garen, and his brother. And he turned away.

Something struck Numbtongue, as he wandered the hill, looking at faces, battering his heart against memory. He went back to the three Redfangs. And he searched.

But there were no other Goblins. And there should have been. At least two. But no matter how long Numbtongue searched, he couldn’t find them. He came back to the trio at last and realized.

There was no Rabbiteater. Or Badarrow.

And Numbtongue had to believe that meant something. No—surely it did. Or else he would stand among them. And if they weren’t there, that meant one thing.

The Hobgoblin’s legs gave out a second time. But this time he fell on his rear, in the soft grass. And he began to laugh.

The Goblin’s laughter echoed from the lonely hill. It echoed across the garden. Numbtongue laughed so hard his ribs hurt. And then he wept, cried with happiness. And sadness.

By the time Mrsha came with Erin, Numbtongue was just sitting there. Staring up at their faces. The little Gnoll shyly hid at the outskirts of that place. The [Goblin Soulbard] looked up as Erin walked over. Her footsteps were faltering. And she stared at the Goblins as he had.

But then she looked at him. Slowly, Erin walked over. She stared at the three Redfangs. And her face was pale. Her voice was soft.

“I just remembered. Sanctuary means a safe place. A reserve. But it also means a sacred place. That’s what the definition is.”

She looked at Numbtongue.

“I’m sorry.”

He smiled. Erin was uncomprehending, but Numbtongue pointed.

“Look. They’re missing.”

It took Erin a moment to understand. And then she did smile. She laughed, like him.

“So is she. Rags. Missing.”

“Missing!”

He agreed. And Erin turned. She hugged Numbtongue, as tight as she could.

“Thank you. I’m sorry. I’m so sorry for asking—”

“We followed you. It was our choice.”

That was all the [Bard] said. He leaned on her. And she on him. They stood together, such that if one had not been there, the other would have fallen. But together they stood.

They stood there, and Mrsha was embarrassed to be here. No, ashamed. Because it was not her place.

She crept away. And she went down the little hill. It was visible, to all for a moment. The Goblin’s laughter had drawn the eye, revealing it. The Stronghearts stared up at that place. And Erin whispered into Numbtongue’s chest.

“If you have to go and find them—I’ll help you. But tell them—don’t forget. This is your home, okay?”

His arms tightened and he hesitated. But then Numbtongue looked up. His eyes ran with tears, but he shook his head.

“It’s fine. I will be strong. Protect you. And this place. And when I find them—I will be strong.”

Behind Erin, a figure stood. Not a statue, but a dead person. A spirit, a ghost. The Goblin Lord bowed. And he stepped away as Numbtongue and Erin embraced. And stood for a moment amid her regrets, her triumphs. Her precious memories.



—-



“Yup, this is a damn good spot for Sage’s Grass.”

Below the sacred hill, Wailant inspected the meadow. He seemed pleased by it. A perfect little spot. He glanced up at the distant pair on the hill. Then he turned.

“Are those two fucking? I’m just curious.”

Garia kicked him down the hill. Mrsha watched Wailant go tumbling past her. She waved at Garia and the City Runner waved back. Then Mrsha leapt.

The former [Pirate] was cursing unfilial daughters as he got up. He looked up as a black shape hurtled towards him. Wailant dove. And the Antinium missed him by inches.

Bird was sliding down a hill on his back, since rolling wasn’t as easy. But his domed back-shell meant the worker achieved commendable speed on the hill.

Mrsha was riding on his stomach.

“Wheeeee.”

The two nearly went into the pond. Bird and Mrsha raced up the hill, and Mrsha found her ball. She pleaded and Bird obliged.

A family. Garia watched as Mrsha raced after a ball that Bird threw. She turned as Viceria watched the same sight.

“Hey, Mom. Um—I’m sorry about not coming home that often.”

The [Green Mage] smiled at Garia.

“You might not have wanted the illusion spells, but you did find your own way, Garia. Don’t mind your father. He’s just adjusting. But you should come home more often.”

They watched as Wailant, grumbling, began to kick over flowers, muttering about fertilizer and hauling everything in here by hand. Garia sighed.

“Sure.”

“And if you would like, I can lend you some better clothes. I don’t mind your dress, Garia, but you need more magical gear. And maybe some more fashionable leggings, even if they have to be Runner’s…”

“Mom.”



—-



In time, even Mrsha was tired out by the fun. And that was something that had never happened before. Mrsha poked her stomach to see if her fun-thing was broken, but she was just tired. She flopped onto her back and panted as Bird walked away to pose in the flowers and bask in the sun.

And in time, Erin and Numbtongue came down from the hill. And Mrsha let the adults do their thing. They had grand plans that involved some stinky grass.

But Mrsha had plans too. This was her garden! She was going to plant all kinds of things here and make them grow. The [Druid] liked that thought. She raced around the garden after a short nap. Then she found something horribly offensive besides Wailant.

It was in the tropical, humid area. Mrsha had a lot of things that had to go, including the pricker bushes. But this? This had to go too.

It was a big tree with…big pods. Orange-brown, deep purple-red, and fat. Bigger than blue-juice trees, or anything else Mrsha had ever seen. Some were reddish, but some of the fallen pods had turned yellow too. Mrsha stared up at them, perplexed.

What a yucky tree. Ew! Not in her garden! The [Druid] frowned darkly. She’d be making big changes here! The Faerie Flowers would be perfect on the sad hill. The mean drunk [Pirate Farmer] could grow his stupid Sage’s Grass—whatever that was—in the meadow, but Mrsha was going to plant nice flowers! And blue fruit trees! And—um—more flowers! For Apista!

She wasn’t going to have nasty pod-trees, no sir! Mrsha kicked a pod savagely. Then she sniffed it, and shook her head. It smelled odd! Odd, foreign—she was sure it would be horrible to taste.

Mrsha waved her wand at the tree, furious at its yuckiness. She was about to cast some horrible, Tier 9 spell on it when a Centaur emerged from the bushes.

“Whew! Thank goodness for emergency bushes. Erin really needs an outhouse for—aah!”

He jumped as Mrsha stared at him. Palt immediately backed up. He guiltily shuffled his hooves.

“I uh—disposed of my waste! I can vanish it! Don’t worry about it! It’s just inconvenient for Centaurs to—oh, it’s just you.”

He breathed a sigh of relief as it turned out to just be Mrsha. She glared and signed with her paws. Palt stared at her blankly.

“What’s that, Miss Mrsha? No need to worry. I do actually have my ways. Er—don’t tell Miss Solstice, would you?”

He noticed the tree Mrsha was so furious about as the Gnoll glared. The Centaur eyed the pod Mrsha was kicking and her apparent disgust. He smiled as he levitated the pod up with a flick of the fingers.

“Oh. Cacao trees. That’s a Baleros-native. I think I saw some Chandrarian plants over there in the arid section. They have a fruit on the inside which is edible. Not exactly good if you ask me; too fruity and slimy. But some of our uh, guests at Wistram have been making a fuss over them.”

Mrsha paused. Edible? She wanted to taste it. She pointed and opened her mouth. Even Palt got that one.

“Miss Solstice, would it be fine if I fed this cacao fruit to Mrsha? I can assure you it’s quite edible.”

The [Innkeeper] was talking with Wailant and the others. Her head turned, vaguely.

“Huh? What’s that, Palt?”

Her eyes were red and Palt stopped. He pointed, lamely.

“You have a tree over there. I don’t mean to disturb. But Miss Mrsha—”

He gestured to Mrsha. The Gnoll signed about Palt pooping. Erin’s brows crossed. She stared at Palt. He turned beet red. Erin’s mouth opened.

And then she paused. The word echoed around her brain a bit. And to be fair, Erin at first assumed it was a word from this world. But had such similarities. And if you knew a bit, a bit at all…

“Say that again? What did you call that tree?”

Palt shrugged.

“Cacao trees. And over there I swear I saw some nali sugarcane. Which would be amazing if you could—”

He broke off as Erin charged. She grabbed the pod like an American football and raised it into the air. She uttered a cry that made everyone turn to her. And the [Innkeeper] stared up at the pod and uttered one word.

“Chocolate.”





1.00


The inn was dark and empty when the traveller arrived. It appeared suddenly, rising above the gentle hills and valleys of autumnal grass that blew in the wind, green, orange, and even purple in places.

The rolling plains were deceptive from afar. At first the many hills and divots seemed gentle, mere waves along a grassy plain. But the closer you got, the more you realized how easy it was to lose your bearings. In the center of a flat stretch of grass surrounded by hills on every side, you could look around and not know where you were. Even climbing a hill, all you might see was a mountain range.

Mountains so vast they disappeared into clouds on all sides grudgingly parted to form a pass connecting the north and south. Cliffs of stone slowly ridding themselves of vegetation and life, rising without end, promising to wall off the world except in this one spot where a gap had been chiseled. No other signs of civilization—at least not without the right vantage point.

That was why the inn was such a relief to the lost traveller. It had been placed on one of the highest hills for reasons of safety come spring, but also to act as a beacon. You might catch a glimpse of the roof, sagging in places but still mostly intact, or the chipped paint peeling along some shutters slightly moldy with disuse.

Yet, the inn stood. It had been there for decades, and whilst the other buildings had long since fallen to rubble or been burnt, the inn had been spared. When armies marched, it had been abandoned, then later reclaimed. When undead came flooding across the land, once more the inn had fallen empty. Only, this time, the windows stayed dark. Hopeful travellers stopped looking for anyone at the door, and visitors were rare anyways these days.

Abandoned, the inn waited. The Skills and care that had been put into the old wood, the magic etched into the bones of this building remained, defying a decade of disuse.

That was why the young woman was drawn to it. Not just because it was the first building she’d seen since coming to this world. Because of what it represented.

She stumbled through the thick grass, looking over her shoulder with every few panting breaths, but her desperate sprinting had long since turned to weary trudging despite the terror still coursing through her. The young woman smelled of brimstone and fire. She clutched at her right arm, and the t-shirt she wore was charred, as was her arm.

The girl climbed the hill, even though there was no light in the windows, not knowing what she might find.

The inn. In every world, the inn was a gathering place. Somewhere to meet people, to rest, a point along your travels. Somewhere an epic quest could begin, or where the weary traveller could sit around a warm fire.

A safe place. But this inn was dark, and the hope faded in the traveller’s chest as she reached the top of the hill.

“Hello? Is…is anyone…?”

She called out as she looked at the dark building. The door was closed, and nothing stirred at her voice. The young woman looked over her shoulder and hesitated.

Was it still out there? She doubted this place could keep her safe, but the strange land of hills and those impossibly huge mountains were overwhelming. Worse—it was growing dark, and it was going to be a darkness bereft of any artificial light.

The idea of staying outdoors with those red-eyed things, or the Dragon, made her shudder. So the young woman pushed the door open and called out again.

“Anyone here? Hello? I need—”

She knew the inn was empty the moment she opened the door. The smell was like that of a library long-abandoned, dusty and moldy—the first wave of stale air made the young woman cough and hack.

“No. Darn it. Of course it’s empty.”

All at once, the traveller sighed and leaned against the doorframe. Her strength ran out of her at the sight of the dark interior, the faint outlines of chairs and tables shrouded in cobwebs and dust proof that nothing had set foot in here for ages. She rested her forearm on the other arm and then winced as the burns screamed at her. Not to be left out, the cuts on her legs throbbed.

She tried not to cry. The young woman had known, known the inn was probably deserted when she saw it. She’d known, but hope—

“It’s not fair. Ever since I came to this world, everything’s been going wrong.”

Talking helped. Talking made her feel like she wasn’t crazy. The girl looked around.

The inn was cavernous, a building meant to hold entire crowds. She felt as small as an ant and unwelcome, like a thief stealing into someone else’s property at night. It was…very dark. Even the fading evening light wasn’t welcome here. A few steps in and the young woman heard her footfalls echoing, then the sound being swallowed. She hesitated. Should she enter?

Inside was darkness, and while it was dusty and she felt like an intruder—the young woman looked over her shoulder.

She was hurt. There were things outside. Monsters. She’d seen them—they’d nearly killed her!

Monsters and an unfamiliar world. A world that wasn’t hers. What she was sure was a Dragon, and she had no idea how she’d gotten here. She had no idea how to go back. She had no idea where here was.

“I just wanted to go to the bathroom.”

It was a plaintive whisper. The girl looked back once more and was almost about to back out of the strange inn when she heard the first sounds overhead.

She jumped, looked up, sprang out the doorway—and straight into the first wet, cold raindrops. The girl threw up her hands, gazed up, got a faceful of water, and ran inside as the skies opened up.

It began to rain, and the cool air grew colder still. The patter of raindrops overhead tapped down through the cracks in the roof, dripped down through floorboards, and landed in the dust where they vanished.

Then it became a roar of sound, and the shower turned the world outside into oblivion. The young woman’s eyes opened wide, and she backed away.

“No good. I guess—”

She found herself inside the inn and gazed about. She coughed again as the dust settled.

It was suddenly, unaccountably, peaceful. Despite the onslaught of rain, the young woman realized she might be safe.

The fire-breathing lizard-thing probably didn’t like rain, and it was so wet it’d douse even a forest fire. And the little green things with teeth would surely never find her in this! The young woman looked around, and as if a reward had appeared for her surviving all of this, she saw a chair.

Just a worn, overturned chair, clearly the sufferer of a thousand bottoms. But it invited her. Slowly, the young woman bent down, righted the chair, then began coughing and sneezing again as more dust overwhelmed her. But she brushed the chair off and sat down.

She closed her eyes for a moment. Just a moment. She’d rest here to begin with, get her bearings, and then figure out what had happened and why. The adrenaline slowly drained out of her, and Erin Solstice leaned back, trying to get comfortable.

She was almost ready to pass out, but a thought nagged at her. She cracked open one eye and looked around. She sighed, opened the other eye, and addressed the empty room.

“I’m really hungry.”

After a few minutes, Erin Solstice sat back up. The traveller, the first guest of this inn in ages, looked around and rubbed at her eyes.

No—not a traveller. She hadn’t been intending to travel anywhere tonight. The young woman frowned as she looked around. How had she gotten here?

Not just here, as in this abandoned inn, but here—here? She’d been going to the bathroom after finishing a game of chess in her room, in her home, and then…she must have taken a wrong step somewhere.

It must have been a really big wrong step, because instead of walking into the bathroom and seeing the comforting sight of porcelain, she’d suddenly found herself in a cave, nose-to-nose with a slumbering—

Dragon.

Erin leapt to her feet, heart pounding. It hadn’t been a dream! She looked around and felt at her right arm.

The burns flared up again, and Erin winced.

“It’s definitely not a dream. But how am I burnt? I could have sworn it missed!”

The jet of violet flame had shot wide of her by a mile, but it had still broiled her right side. Her jeans had kept her right leg from burning as badly as her unprotected arm, but it still hurt. Erin had no idea how she’d dodged, but that had saved her life. She’d run out of that…cave…and then?

Then she’d found herself running around the rolling valleys and foothills, calling for help and screaming as she realized she was not home. That had been a mistake, because the shouting had attracted attention. Attention, not help.

A bunch of little green things with red eyes and mouths full of teeth had come after her. They’d slashed at her legs as she ran—still screaming—and lost them.

“What were those things? G—they sort of looked like—Goblins? No way. This has to be a dream, but my arm hurts too bad for it to be a dream.”

That was her paradox. There was no way this was happening. Everything felt real, from the pain to the aching in her feet and tickling in her throat from the dust hanging in the air. However—this was surreal.

“What is this place? An inn? Really?”

Now that she looked around, it was clear that a lot of things were wrong. Erin had been in old-fashioned buildings, even to Renaissance faires, but this—this was the real thing.

There was no glass on the shuttered windows. She couldn’t see evidence of plastic or anything beyond simple wood or metal fixtures. There was no overhead lighting—and yet it was still very much the common room of an inn.

The tables and chairs might be covered with dust and spiderwebs—without any spiders—but there was a bar against the far wall and a staircase leading up. A single room seemed to lead off to another part of the inn, but most of the building was just this vast central space.

It should have been lively, Erin felt. She looked at the bar and imagined someone behind it, polishing a mug and serving a lovely cold drink of—

Erin’s longing sigh was accompanied by a third fit of coughing so long that she actually stumbled over to the door where it was pouring rain to gulp for air.

The dust! Her third assailant in this world was trying to kill her! Eyes streaming, Erin gulped for air. It was like she was breathing the stuff. She wiped at her face, coughed one more time, sneezed, then glared back at the inn.

“This place is going to kill me! I’m going to choke to death before the rain stops. Someone should clean it up!”

She looked around.

“…And I guess that someone is me.”

The young woman hesitated, but it was clear that if she tried to stay in this place for a few hours, let alone sleep the night, she’d probably attract every monster in ten miles by her coughing alone…if she didn’t suffocate in her sleep.

“Besides, this would make for a great place to explore from, and it’s got walls. I’m not going to find anything better, I bet. Then I…”

Her voice trailed off. Erin looked around and felt the unbelievable nature of what had happened building on her.

Do what? Where am I? What happened?

She fought off a wave of panic threatening to engulf her. No—she couldn’t panic. She couldn’t—Erin glanced at the pouring rain. It was muffling anything from outside, but she clamped her mouth shut.

She couldn’t scream. It was possible something could hear her through the downpour.

Don’t scream, don’t panic. Think. She wasn’t running for her life. She had to think. So the young woman forced herself to sit down at a table. She faced it, squared her shoulders, and adopted something like a reasonable posture.

“First things first. I should stay here. I don’t know what’s going on. I don’t know if this inn is safe—but it’s dusty. It’s got walls. So I explore. Also, I find something to clean all this stuff up with. I don’t want to use my shirt. Seems like a bad move, but I can’t breathe here without…okay. First steps. Pawn to E4. Pawn to C5. Sicilian Defense. Here we go.”

And with that, she got up and began to explore the inn. The first thing Erin actually did, before even venturing into other rooms, was check her pockets.

Most people went into their adventures well-equipped or with some nifty object that gave them an edge. Erin checked her pockets and found…nothing. If she’d known she was going to end up in this place, she would have brought along a backpack crammed full of essentials. And a gun. To fight off the little green men and the Dragon.

But she hadn’t planned this and, unfortunately, hadn’t even taken a phone. She’d been going to the bathroom!

Erin’s forehead wrinkled as she circumnavigated the common room first, checking the tables and chairs for something, anything. All she found was more dust.

It had been so fast. All she’d done was step into the bathroom and she’d been somewhere else. No flash of light, no wardrobe—did bathrooms count?

Apparently so, but it had been so sudden she felt like she’d been wronged, somehow. No mysterious voices, just bathroom teleportation. How?

Virtual reality? Very virtual if so, but it felt too real. No. Then—she was crazy?

Erin hoped not. However, the Goblins and Dragon made her feel there was only one reasonable, unreasonable explanation.

Magic. This was some kind of fantasy-land. Which meant she probably needed a sword or a wand. Or a magic sword.

But it became clear to her that the first thing that Erin needed was…a dustrag. And that became her first mission in this world. Get a dustrag and clean yourself a spot to sit.

It was proving to be a harder challenge than anticipated. There was nothing in the common room, even behind the bar, aside from a line of very dusty mugs. Erin hesitated before the door adjoining the bar and poked her head inside.

The young woman blinked at the semi-familiar sight. It was a kitchen alright; it had cutting boards built into the counters, a bunch of cupboards, and even a stove—a stone stove with a hatch to build a fire, nothing gas or electric.

The same for the ovens—she saw a giant, old-fashioned baker’s oven that led up to a presumed chimney. Here, at least, there were actual objects. A pot, cast-iron pan, and a few other utensils, including the world’s rustiest ladle, were all lying next to…

“Aha!”

Erin found a bucket. It was not a dustrag, but you needed water to clean things, right? And she happened to have a fresh supply coming down right outside.

She grabbed the bucket and towed it outside to fill up. After a second, she ran inside and grabbed some of the old mugs she’d found and set them outside to catch more water. She might need it.

Encouraged, Erin went back to her dustrag hunt. She began opening cupboards in the kitchen, but just found plates, old utensils, what might have been more dust or disintegrated food—

Nothing cloth at all.

“Drat.”

Erin gave up on her cupboard search and left the rest for later. Did you store dustrags in the kitchen? Maybe with towels, but she needed a pantry. She scoped out the rest of the ground floor but found nothing so handy.

“Darn.”

Well, that only left upstairs.

It was a very dark stairwell that looked down on Erin as she put her first foot on the stairs. The young woman looked up and gulped. Given the size of the ground floor, the staircase to the second floor was…ominous, to say the least. It looked like the bones of some gigantic monster in the darkness.

Cautiously, Erin ascended. It seemed as though every second stair creaked or groaned loudly as she placed her weight upon it, and the sounds echoed in the dark inn. To Erin, it felt like she was stepping on landmines—each time she heard a loud creak, her heart sped up and caught in her throat.

“Come on. Come on. You can do this.”

Erin whispered to herself, keeping her voice low so as not to—to wake up anything that might be up there. At that thought, her heart skipped another beat, and she paused halfway up the stairwell, shaking slightly.

“This is stupid. There’s nothing up there. Nothing!”

She paused.

“Okay, maybe there is something. I don’t know. There could be—more of those Goblins? But there’s probably not a Dragon, right? Right! Don’t be stupid.”

Hesitation. Another step.

“But a Dragon could be up there.”

Erin took a step back down. The stairs creaked. She scolded herself as her heart thumped painfully.

“Don’t be stupid. How would a Dragon fit up there? But Goblins?”

With a small laugh, Erin gazed upwards. The darkness on the second floor waited for her. Long shadows made the chipped and faded wood ominous. But it was just an illusion, a trick of the mind. She knew there was probably nothing up there. If there were, wouldn’t it have tried to eat her already?

But this was a different kind of fear that held her heart. It was a child’s fear, the fear of the dark and the unknown. So, Erin hesitated. But she knew she had to climb.

After a minute, she began talking to herself quietly.

“Dustrag. Dustrag, dustrag, dustrag…”

Erin muttered the word like a mantra. Somehow, the thought that she absolutely needed to find one gave her the strength to continue climbing the stairs.

One step. That was the hardest. Then two steps. Erin’s heart jumped as the stairs creaked underneath her, but nothing terrible happened. So she kept climbing.

However, if the sketchy staircase was the first hurdle of the mind, the empty corridor full of shadows and darkness was an entirely new level of intimidation.

It was so dark. Even when her eyes adjusted, Erin could barely see five feet in front of her. But having come this far, she was committed. So she kept going with her heart pounding out of her chest.

“Dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag, dustrag…”

The first room she came to was very, very dark. Erin crept inside and froze as she heard a sound. Was that…rustling?

No. No, it was just her imagination. She could hear the storm passing outside with the rain making a racket on the roof overhead. The wind was blowing against the inn, that was all. It was probably just a leaf—

Rustle, rustle.

Definitely a sound. Erin’s heart played the drums in her chest. There was something in the room with her, and she really hoped for once that it was just a rat. Something—it sounded almost leathery, like two wings unfurling…

“Dustragdustragdustragdustragdustra—”

In the distance, thunder rolled, and a gust of wind blew hard against the inn. Something pale and white unfurled itself in the darkness and flew at Erin. She screamed, flailed wildly at the thing, and crashed to the ground with it in her arms.

For a minute, all was confusion and noise. Erin fought wildly against the monster attacking her as rain started pelting her face and it wrapped itself around her arms and head. She eventually threw it off her and scrambled to her feet to find the terrifying creature was—

A curtain.

For a few seconds, Erin just stared at the faded fabric in her hands in complete shock. Once her heart had decided to stop running a marathon, she exhaled.

“Curtains.”

She picked up the pale bit of fabric and studied it. Well, it was a curtain. That was about the extent of her detective skills. It was a white curtain—or at least it had been white a long time ago. Mildew and dirt had turned it grey, but at least it was fabric.

“Okay, okay.”

Erin’s heart was still racing far too fast. She looked around. The room was still very dark, and the wind coming in from outside made the windows shudder in a very eerie manner.

Erin closed the window. That stopped the noise, at least. But it was still way too dark to make out many details. Now, she could keep exploring the second floor. Or, having found a dustrag, she could go back down to the bottom floor. The comforting, familiar, dusty ground floor.

The room was very dark. Erin took another look around and quickly went back downstairs. She tossed the curtain on one of the tables next to the bucket she’d found and looked around.

“Let’s see. Where should I start, then?”

Really, the better question was where not to start. Aside from the walls, everything was covered by a thick layer of dust. In the end, Erin started with the table she’d sat at.

The wet curtain…rag raised a cloud of dust into the air, making Erin stumble away, coughing and hacking. But the actual task of cleaning was in fact very easy.

Erin took the dustrag, dropped it in the bucket of water, then slapped it over one table. The dull sound made her jump and look around, but nothing moved, so she took hold of the dustrag, dragged it along the table, and took all the dust and pushed it onto the floor.

Then she did another pass until she could see the wood grain beneath, a dark brown now that night was falling, and squeezed the cloth and dipped it in the bucket once more.

One dip turned the water dark grey, but rain meant that Erin had a lot of free water. Ironically, all the dust seemed to have prevented mold or other more clinging stains. A few passes of the dustrag, sending clumps and clouds of dust billowing onto the floor, and the table was mostly clean, if wet.

“Table’s done! That just leaves—um…”

Erin looked around and began to count the tables—and chairs—and floor—then decided to just clear one more table so maybe she could sleep on top. And maybe a few chairs. And since it was going fast and the rain wasn’t letting up, why not do all the tables?

Every time her bucket got so disgusting that it made the rag filthier than when it went in, Erin opened the door of the inn, tossed the water out, and sat back in one of the chairs until the bucket had filled up again. Then she started cleaning once more.

There was a rhythm to it. In no time at all, Erin had cleaned the tables, so she decided to clean all the chairs too. And once she’d finished with that, it only made sense to clean the bartop as well.

The long counter was made of some kind of high-quality wood. Erin admired the way the faint light from outside made the rich wood glow after removing the dust. The bar was long enough to accommodate at least twenty people at a time…or fifteen if they were picky about elbow room.

That done, Erin cleaned the barkeep’s shelf below the bar and the other surfaces in the common room. When she was finished, the inn seemed far warmer than it had before as the newly clean surfaces reflected the fading light from outside.

However, there was one place that Erin had avoided the entire time. Namely, the floor.

It was only natural. Erin had nothing like a mop, and she’d been pushing all the dust onto the floor the entire time. As such, huge piles of wet dust clumped together everywhere. Erin kicked at a pile and shrugged.

“Well, when you compare it with the tables and chairs…”

She could only laugh at her strange results. Clean tables, dirty floor. You could eat your dinner off the tables, at least. And who cared about floors? Floors were for stepping on, not sleeping. Erin wiped at her forehead and found she was covered with a layer of sweat. And—was it nightfall already?

Yes, sometime in her cleaning efforts, the rain had ceased and the visible light had decreased until the inn was nearly pitch dark. Now, instead of everything being a mass of shadows, there was nothing to see at all.

“So it’s not scary, but terrifying. Great.”

At least the ground floor was reassuring. Erin looked around the room, her eyes spotting the moonlight reflecting off the smooth tabletops and chairs. Yes, this room did feel a bit better. She’d cleaned it and thus made it hers, in a way. That made it safe. At least, she really hoped that was the case.

Erin sat back down in a chair and found she was exhausted. She leaned back against the table and sighed. If ever she needed proof that she was terrible in a survival situation, this would be it. Here she was, lost in a terrifying world without a clue where she was, and what was her first move? Clean the room.

“At least Mom would be happy.”

Erin laughed to herself. She closed her eyes, overcome by exhaustion. Time to rest. Maybe tomorrow, everything would be better. Maybe this was all just a dream. Probably not, but…

Her eyelids lowered. Her breathing grew slower. Erin just had enough consciousness for one last thought.

“Now I’m really, really hungry.”



[Innkeeper Class Obtained!]

[Innkeeper Level 1!]

[Skill – Basic Cleaning obtained!]

[Skill – Basic Cooking obtained!]



In the darkness, the girl cracked one eye open. She looked around and then sat up.

“…What was that?”





