o chaos.”

Her words were greeted with silence. Jeiss spoke up after a moment.

“You believe that, Watch Captain? The Ants seem pretty unified to me.”

“Antinium, Jeiss. And that’s because they’re one species even if they looked different. But Aberrations? Painted Soldiers? They’re different. And somehow, I don’t think the other Queens like different things.”

The Watch Captain smiled. And Olesm sighed inside. Because it was a good argument. Watch Captain Zevara saluted, Olesm gathered up the secret documents, and they left.

“Nice job swaying them with the mandatory explanation.”

He spoke to her as they walked down the hallway. Zevara glanced at him.

“You disagree?”

“I know Senior Guardsman Klbkch too. And he thinks of us…”

“…As expendable? So what?”

Zevara stopped by the bannister staircase looking down. Olesm stared at her.

“So what? That doesn’t frighten you? You don’t think he’d kill us all if the Grand Queen ordered it?”

Zevara paused. She looked past Olesm, straight through him, and then met his eyes as serious as he’d ever seen her.

“Of course it frightens me. And maybe he’d kill me, Olesm. And you. And this entire city. But you know the thing about traitors? It’s not all the times they obey that makes them a traitor. It’s the one time they disobey that does it. And I’m willing to bet on one. How about you?”

The [Strategist] opened his mouth, but never replied as Zevara strode down the staircase. And that, Olesm realized, was as close as Zevara would ever come to praising Erin Solstice. It made him really think as he put away the documents and locked them. When he came back to the Council room, the real debate had begun.

“Do you really think you can expand Liscor and rebuilt the walls higher without the Antinium, Lism? Liscor has not the [Builders] or [Architects] to do such a thing. Nor does it have the money to hire such workers in the numbers they would be needed.”

Krshia was arguing with Lism about the key thing that separated them. Raekea and Elirr were nodding along, but Lism was being backed by Jeiss and Alonna and to a lesser extent, Tismel and Zalaiss. The [Shopkeeper] snapped back.

“There is no way I’ll allow the Antinium to expand their Hive.”

“Well, it is what we promised. Antinium gold and Antinium aid! We must honor that vow!”

“You three must. But there are three of you. We have the majority.”

Lism pointed at the other Drakes sitting around the table. Jeiss winced a bit guiltily and Alonna sighed, but neither objected. Krshia opened her mouth. And then she smiled cunningly. And she glanced sideways.

At Tismel. And then at Zalaiss. Lism looked up.

“They won’t vote for an Antinium Hive expansion. There’s no use trying to sway them.”

“I must agree with Shopkeeper—er, with Councilmember Lism.”

Tismel nodded, still looking pale. Olesm saw Zalaiss inclining her head as well. But Krshia shook her head. She wagged a finger at Lism.

“In that case, we will vote against your proposals, yes? I do not believe you have the majority to enforce rules reducing the cost of rent without us.”

Krshia glanced pointedly at the two mercantile members of the Council. The Cobbler’s Guild’s Guildmaster looked up and Zalaiss paused.

“Hold on. The old Council told us—”

“What? That’s a separate issue from the Antinium and the walls, Silverfang! Don’t you dare pull innocent people’s lives into this!”

Lism barked at Krshia. The Gnoll just folded her arms and looked grim.

“Nothing for nothing, Lism. We get nothing, you get nothing. Liscor suffers either way.”

“Wait—wait. I’m sorry, Councilmembers, but changing the prices of rent really isn’t on the table to begin with. I’m friends with a number of the Council—not to mention I own a bit of land!”

Tismel’s protest went unheard. Lism cursed as he looked at Jeiss. The Senior Guardsman paused.

“Krshia, that’s not fair. The rent—”

“What’s wrong with hiring Antinium to build the walls, Jeiss? Give a bit and we give back. Let’s negotiate.”

Raekea retorted. Jeiss considered this and looked at Alonna and Lism. Alonna nodded.

“Sounds good. Lism, listen to Krshia. She’s serious.”

“About the rent—”

Tismel’s voice grew louder and more urgent. Lism looked sideways at him.

“I heard you.”

“Oh, thank you!”

Tismel smiled in relief. Zalaiss, who was a [Merchant] and at least knew when not to trust someone at their immediate word, looked sharply at Lism. But she had seen the same thing he, Krshia, and Olesm—well, the entire Council had by this point. Lism raked his claws through his neck spines, thinking. Jeiss leaned over.

“It’s not actually that bad. Believe me—if you take out the part about the Hive—”

Alonna was nodding. Lism listened, and then growled.

“Fine! Fine!”

He looked at Krshia. The Gnoll raised an eyebrow and Lism glowered. He looked like he was pulling a tooth, but eventually he opened his mouth.

“Alright. Let’s bargain. No Antinium Hive expansion. I’ll trade diplomatic rights and increased Soldiers on the walls. They can also help build the city.”

Elirr whistled softly. He looked at Krshia. She was drumming her paws on the table.

“Hm. Klbkch might accept that. Would you allow—”

“No expansion.”

“Six hundred square feet?”

“That’s a lot of tunnel networks and barracks! The Antinium can burrow deep, Councilmember!”

Olesm had to protest. Krshia raised a brow.

“Four hundred then. Two hundred.”

“No, and no.”

“Fine then. My answer is no and no.”

“You can’t be serious! These are lives we’re talking about, Krshia!”

“I know. But give me something. Say, if Klbkch does not accept what you agreed on. Four hundred feet?”

“One hundred.”

“Two hundred.”

“Fine. But we’re all negotiating with him! And believe me, we’ll be very precise about the deal we make.”

Krshia smiled.

“Done!”

She reached out. Lism glared, and then slapped her paw with his claw. Raekea beamed and Elirr patted Krshia on the back, murmuring something too quiet for Olesm to hear. She relaxed, sighing.

Only Tismel didn’t seem to know what had happened. Lism was glowering as Jeiss patted him on the shoulder. Then the [Shopkeeper] looked up.

“Alright. Rent! First on our list.”

“Councilmember!”

“What? Tismel, I hear you, what?”

“You just said—”

“I said, I hear you. And I’m ignoring you now. Let’s just agree on this now, Krshia. Are we on the same page?”

“Like a book, Lism. And for once I think I will enjoy this.”

Krshia gave Lism a predatory smile. And he almost smiled back. He steepled his claws.

“Very well. I motion to limit the rent prices on Liscor’s citizens.”

“Councilmember Lism, I object! That is not acceptable to me!”

And there Zalaiss stood. She might not have been the best [Merchant], or a Gnoll like Krshia Silverfang, but she still had a presence. Tismel was nodding frantically. But again, Zalaiss had underestimated her audience. She looked around. Raekea and Elirr stared up at her blankly. Jeiss sighed. Alonna shook her head. Krshia smiled. And Lism continued.

“As I was saying, a vote to agree to limit—”

“Councilmember Lism, we are all of the same rank here. I have a right to be heard!”

Zalaiss snapped at Lism. He glanced up at her. And there was a dispassionate look in his eyes. Dispassionate, until you saw the satisfaction lurking there. Slowly, Lism nodded.

“Councilwoman Zalaiss, I fully understand that you have a right to be heard. I only wonder if it will do you any good.”

“Excuse me? I think the Council should decide as a whole—”

“I think the Council has.”

Lism cut Zalaiss off. She froze. And he turned around to look at the Drakes across from him.

“Councilmember Jeiss. Councilmember Alonna. Your thoughts?”

The two Drakes regarded Lism. Jeiss, who had risen through the ranks to become a Senior Guardsman and who had lived in apartments in Liscor all his life. Alonna, who had been a [Mage] paying rent as well. They looked at him, smiling slightly.

“No objections, Councilmember Lism.”

“None on my end either. Let’s hear what you have to say.”

“Very good. And my…fellow Councilmembers. Councilmember Elirr?”

The elderly Gnoll beamed at Lism. After all, Elirr had family, friends in Liscor. Gnolls were not wealthy.

“Councilmember Raekea?”

Raekea nodded. She might have been Liscor’s best [Armorer] but she wasn’t…Zalaiss paled. The [Merchant] looked at Tismel, the Guildmaster, and then at Krshia. Honored Krshia. Krshia the [Shopkeeper]. The Gnoll inclined her head. And she almost purred as she spoke.

“Councilmember Lism, I believe you have yet to ask for my opinion.”

“Don’t ruin the moment, Krshia Silverfang.”

Lism sighed. But then he looked at her.

“Your thoughts?”

Krshia took her time in replying. When she did speak, it was cheerfully.

“It’s always been interesting to me, yes? How majorities work. Gnolls do not have such things. We have our [Chieftains], and we respect authority in age and deed and in other ways. In the Gnollmoot, yes, we also gather and the [Chieftains] must debate of course, but even there, it is not simply a majority wins. This way is much simpler. One could overrule all other voices if they had, mm, five votes, yes? Let alone six. Then two voices do not matter. That is much like a…hrm. Tyranny. Which is not a Gnollish thing. Some might call it dangerous, yes?”

Zalaiss went dead white. Tismel caught on and choked. Lism looked up at the ceiling and then reconsidered. He stared down at the candied nuts embedded in the carpet and smiled.

“Perhaps it is. But [Kings] seem to do it well enough. Maybe it’s wrong for a democracy. But it strikes me that Liscor hasn’t been one. The old Council used to elect the new Council. So one turn is fair to me.”

He spread his claws on the table and nodded around.

“I motion to amend how the Council decides on issues. Later. So. As I was saying, the Antinium can have their visitors to the city. Under watch. And more Soldiers aboveground since they apparently have an army of them under our feet. No expansion of the Hive and I say we test to make sure they’re not expanding six times a year at minimum. In exchange, we hire them to do some of the rebuilding process. But to expand the city, we need funds. The third problem which we brought up at the start of that meeting.”

The others nodded. Zalaiss was making a faint noise in the back of her throat. Olesm was waiting with bated breath. This was better than a play because it was real. And it was happening. Krshia nodded, playing her role out with a broad smile.

“The Antinium will pay for a good deal of this, yes? They could begin work without a need for a down payment. And they have a good deal of materials, or so Senior Guardsman Klbkch has informed me. Quality stone, taken from the dungeon.”

“Yes, yes. We’ll also have funds from the army and the Walled Cities. They have pledged to aid Liscor.”

“But we’re striking a deal with the Antinium.”

Alonna pointed out, amused. Lism raised a claw.

“Only because that damned Krshia insists! We’re not allowing them to expand the Hive! Much! If at all. Otherwise we’d be forced to accept full Antinium aid. If the Walled Cities won’t pay. I believe that’s called ‘nothing for nothing’.”

He looked at Krshia. She smiled. Lism went on.

“But money has to come from somewhere. And we have to consider extra budgets for the Watch, upgrades to the Adventurer’s Guilds, and so on. I move to make a number of changes including prices on Shield Spider components. But given the current and severe population crisis in the city, I also move to reduce rents and raise a higher tax on [Landlords], which—”

“No!”

Zalaiss shouted. Lism shouted over her, cheerfully bellowing.

“Two silver coins per month in lower-income districts! That’s as much as some families can afford to pay. Middle-income…as a cap, ten silver? Or one gold piece? Maybe a gold piece!”

Elirr choked on his cup of wine.

“A gold piece per month?”

“That’s the upper limit, obviously. We’re not going to regulate the prices. Too much. But—”

“Two silver coins per month? You can’t do that!”

Tismel was aghast. Lism looked around.

“I think we can. We have six votes. For everything I’ve just discussed, all in favor?”

“Stop!”

Six hands went up. Zalaiss looked around, and then tried to yank Jeiss’ arm down. He kept it up. Tismel went over to Raekea to do the same and she made a fist. Lism grinned.

“Excellent! And we’ll review how every Guild is paying their dues to the city! Starting with the Merchant’s Guild, especially if they try to boycott! The Watch can enforce the issue of rent. Anyone who objects to the new prices can sit in the prison! With the Minotaur! With a fine!”

“This is a mutiny! A rebellion! Treachery! I’ll tell the Council!”

The [Merchant] shouted at the room.

“This is democracy! Tell the Council! They’re not in charge!”

Lism was on his feet. The Drake leapt onto the table and Zalaiss, turning, staring in horror, saw him point at her. The [Shopkeeper] laughed wildly.

“Run! Run and tell them!”

She stared up at him, stumbled for the door, and fled. Tismel was hot on her heels. Lism laughed wildly, and collapsed back into his chair as he got off of the table. Everyone was staring. Olesm’s uncle chuckled, and then he guffawed. And then he just sat there, chortling a bit.

It was Krshia who eventually got them back on track. The Gnoll cleared her throat, and Lism sat up, glaring at her. But strangely, then he nodded. As if all the enmity between them had dissipated for a moment. They nodded at each other. And Olesm remembered a proverb about Drakes.

If the end of the world came and only two Drakes were left, they’d fight over the dust that was left. But there was nothing that united two Drakes, even two mortal enemies…like a third Drake with more wealth than the other two combined. Jeiss chortled as he picked up a quill and ink.

“Two silver coins for the lowest-income districts. I can make a list. Wait, should I make a list?”

“Might as well. Or they’ll try claiming every district’s middle-income or higher. Right, back to work. Now, as I was saying about the Shield Spider parts—I think we want to insist on a cut of what’s being sold, don’t you?”

“A silver piece or two? The Merchant’s Guild has profited, but how would we know the numbers of what is sold or not?”

Alonna demurred as she and the others edged closer to the table. Elirr stroked his chin.

“Perhaps we could ask some Gnoll [Merchants]? There are few who go north, but they might tell us.”

“No need. Let’s just check the records. The Merchant’s Guild keeps them, after all.”

Lism snorted. Krshia frowned.

“Can we do that? They might defend it and it is Guild-rights.”

“Okay, fine. That might be going too far. In that case, let’s just say they owe us two silver pieces per Shield Spider corpse. They’ll figure out how to make a profit or they’ll eat the losses.”

“And if they don’t report the numbers?”

“That’s a job for Watch Captain Zevara and truth spells. Can we make it retroactive?”

Jeiss grinned.

“You’d scare away every [Merchant] in a thousand miles, Lism. The law doesn’t work like that, believe me. Just stick to two silver pieces. What else?”

There was a pause. And then the Council began speaking all at once. It was chaos as Olesm tried to keep up, listening to Krshia and Lism arguing, Jeiss talking law, Alonna offering magical solutions and Raekea and Elirr bringing in Gnollish ideas to a room that had only known Drakes. It was chaos, and probably inefficient. But it was also fresh and new. Olesm had to keep turning his head because if he kept it in one place too long, his smile would make one of the Councilmembers look up and ask what was so funny. And it wasn’t funny. It was wonderful.



—-



The outraged former Council of Liscor took twenty minutes to convene back on the city hall like a swarm of bees. Slow bees, who had to pant because they’d run all the way back. But they’d brought reinforcements. Last year’s Council, plus Zalaiss and Tismel, plus the previous Council! And the Council before them! There weren’t actually twenty six of them—only twenty two—because some of them had served dual offices.

But they certainly outnumbered the six upstarts in that office! The Councilmembers stormed up the steps, ready to put an end to this madness by force if necessary. They got to the room where the current Council was meeting. But got no further because someone was blocking the way.

Just…someone. Not someones. But you only needed one. Relc looked up from where he was sitting on a stool. Of course, the Councilmembers recognized him. That pestilential, rude—er, large, very helpful Senior Guardsman. He looked larger than they remembered him. And when he stood up, you couldn’t help but notice he was in fine shape for his age and semi-retirement.

“Move aside! We demand to see the Council!”

Someone from the back of the mob shouted. After all, there were twenty tw—nineteen of them. Eighteen, now. Relc cracked his knuckles. Then his arms. Then his neck. And then his spine.

“Ooh! Bad posture. Hello everyone! Councilmember Zalaiss, Councilmember Tismel, you’re free to go back and listen if you promise not to interrupt too much. Everyone else, this is city hall.”

“…So?”

“You’re not the Council.”

Relc looked at them as if they were idiots. The Drakes hesitated, and then one of the group of fifteen blustered.

“We are all former Councilmembers! So if you know what’s good for you—”

She stopped as Relc held up a clawed hand.

“Damnit! Sorry, sorry. I made a mistake. Let me try again.”

He took a breath, and then he smiled and held up a hand. He slowly clenched it into a fist.

“Hi! I’m Relc. No one but the current Council goes through, got it? I’m allowed to hit you if you disagree. Please disagree.”

And strangely, no one disagreed. The Council hesitated, and thought about bodyguards and mercenaries and shady people. Then they looked at Relc’s fist. The Gecko of Liscor gave them a bright smile.

And that was that. The Council worked on ignorant of what was going outside. They were talking, debating. And it wasn’t just Krshia and Lism. They had held the floor to begin with; it had been their parties, their ideas. But after the first agreements had been struck, it was anyone’s floor. And contrary to what they’d expected—everyone had something to bring to the conversation.

“Can we agree to pass Watch Captain Zevara’s budget?”

Jeiss tapped a claw on the table, getting the attention away from a discussion of guild fees to the city. Olesm had circulated the proposed budget and Krshia took a moment to wince at the number underlined at the bottom. She hesitated.

“It’s a lot of gold. Gold we will have to ration between all the projects.”

Lism nodded sourly. They were doing calculations of how much they’d need for every project and Zevara’s wasn’t the biggest stone in the basket, but it certainly was large. Jeiss, however, was adamant.

“I am a Senior Guardsman and I know Watch business. I can tell all of you honestly that we could use all the gold we can get—and then some. If you want to defend against the dungeon, the Antinium, or anything else, we need the gold. Consider this an inescapable expense. No reducing the budget. No ‘cuts’ to make it work. That’s how we lost our [Mage] unit twenty four years back. And we could have used them against the Necromancer.”

The Council nodded reluctantly. But how did you make money out of nothing? Sometimes you shook it out of people who’d been hoarding it, but that didn’t work for everything. It was Raekea who raised her arm and grinned around her slightly sooty fur.

“I have an idea that came to me recently. Pallass has [Blacksmiths]. The best I’ve seen. Maughin alone could put all of Liscor’s best out of work, and as one of them, I must admit that.”

She grimaced. The admission hurt, but she went on.

“However, Pallass needs one thing as much as Liscor. Ore. They have mines they control and they import goods, but cheap and good-quality ore is always welcome. More than that, I think some of their smiths might come to Liscor, or teach us their tricks if there was a profit in it.”

“All I hear is how we’re spending more money. And we certainly don’t have any ore mines. We used to, but finding new ones would require [Prospectors]—another expense we don’t have gold for yet!”

Lism frowned. Alonna gave him a reproving look. Raekea rolled her eyes and went on.

“We don’t have ore. But there is a city nearby who does.”

Krshia’s eyes lit up.

“Esthelm? They have mines?”

“Hrm. Yes. I import what I need from them. Cheap. But there aren’t any areas to smelt on a large scale so all of Liscor’s [Smiths] cannot buy what Esthelm produces. However, Pallass…if we could export ore to them and import smelted goods cheaply—”

“On the list! Put it on the list, Olesm!”

Lism waved at his nephew frantically. And Olesm waved at one of the [Scribes] whom he’d brought in because his claw was really starting to hurt from all the writing. She dutifully wrote it down and it was Elirr’s turn. He cleared his throat when it came to the subject of the Adventurer’s Guild.

“I understand pets. Animals. Not much else. But…hrm. I think setting prices on monster parts from the Adventurer’s Guild is a good thing. Lism is correct, yes? Shield Spider parts have uses, but we do not earn much of a profit from them while [Merchants] do. And the adventurers, for all they do harvest monsters for their goods, do not use all of the monster they could because they do not know, yes? Just the other day, I heard that they had killed a nest of Blankipillers and left them to rot!”

“Blanki—what?”

Even Olesm looked blankly at Elirr. The Gnoll huffed.

“Have you never heard of them? Blankipillars. Giant caterpillars. They grow up into…hrm, well, good that they do not grow up. But they have sacs in them, yes? They are very numbing. They can kill in large doses, but [Healers] and [Alchemists] would pay much for them!”

“That’s what Selys has been saying all along. The Adventurer’s Guild can collect monster ingredients. But it will need a storehouse. More facilities.”

“Spend money to earn money! How does that help us now?”

Elirr gave Lism a reproving look.

“If we have a surplus of goods, we simply store them, yes? The city must own at least one warehouse with Runes of Preservation. Let us give one to the Adventurer’s Guild that we might start putting bounties on the monster parts and selling them at once. Pallass will surely demand rare ingredients.”

Alonna nodded excitedly.

“I could ask the [Mage]’s Guilds in other cities to go over the lists of monsters. Wistram Academy and Fissival’s College might pay for some parts if the creatures are rare. Is there a list of monsters discovered so far?”

“Selys would surely keep one, would she not?”

Lism nodded, drumming his claws excitedly on the table. Krshia was already going over how much the city would take from the Adventurer’s Guild’s as a fee. If [Shopkeepers] had one talent, it was shaving every copper penny they could out of a deal.

“Yes, let’s send for a list! And have it duplicated and sent out, by all means, Alonna. Ore as well, by all means! If we can see we’ll pull in more money, we could allocate Watch Captain Zevara her funds today and fund the rest as we go.”

“I’ll send a Street Runner, Uncle. I mean, Lism. Councilmember. It may take them a while especially if Selys is off-duty. But I’m sure they’ll be here within the hour at most! Will you be breaking before then?”

Flustered and excited, Olesm stumbled over his words. He saw the Council look at him.

“What? Breaking?”

“For lunch. Or adjourning for the day? The Council rarely—”

Lism smacked the table with one claw.

“What are you talking about? We’re staying in session until we see those rents lowered. And get construction underway! Or at least get someone with an [Architect] class working on it! Nephew—er, Strategist Olesm, who’s the best [Architect] in the world?”

“That would be Drevish the Architect. Er, no. Wait. He’s dead. Then it’s…”

“We’re not paying for a world-class [Architect]! What a waste of money, Lism! We don’t need fancy designs either! Hire someone from Pallass!”

Alonna was aghast. Lism shook his head adamantly.

“There are all sorts of things that go into city construction. Not just defensive placements, but sewer management. Aesthetics! It needs to be world-class! Pay for the best, especially if it comes to design. That’s how I do business.”

“What? I thought it was ‘undercut your competition by selling cheap products mixed in with your overpriced goods’, yes? Anyways, I have a better suggestion.”

Lism glared at Krshia. They kept sniping at each other, but neither broke flow. In fact, they were more trying to outdo each other rather than tear each other down. Lism gritted his teeth.

“Well?”

Krshia smirked.

“As a matter of fact, there is someone I found when I was researching how much it would cost. They are willing to work—for a good price!—and can deliver the blueprints within the week! Moreover, they are excited by the idea and they are a specialist in cities that deal with water, such as ours.”

“Really?”

The Council looked at her. Lism frowned.

“And why, if this is so big, did you not shout it from the rooftops?”

Krshia paused.

“Besides the fact that you’d copy my idea? Er, the [Architect] is ah…”

She took a breath. Raekea paused and Elirr sighed, remembering the issue in question that had put even Selys against it. Krshia came out with it in a rush.

“Hexel Quithail, one of the best [Architects] in all of Baleros, perhaps the world! He designed a new palace in Terandria, a city for the Iron Vanguard, and three cities himself!”

She paused. Lism took a moment to digest this. Then he shouted.

“A Lizardperson?”

“Lamia, technically, Uncle. They’re one of the smarter evolutions of their kind—”

“Never! You’ve gone too far this time, Silverfang!”

Olesm winced. Jeiss and Alonna both glared at Krshia. The Gnoll sighed.

“He is the best you will get for such a price!”

“Live in a city designed by one of those egg-headed idiots?”

The argument became a furious debate. Olesm was actually on Krshia’s side in this one, much to his uncle’s horror. Raekea paused and leaned over to Elirr. Very quietly she whispered to him.

“I never understood why Drakes hated Lizardpeople. Aren’t they…?”

“It’s the similarity, I think. Similarity among the differences.”

“Hrm. Yes.”

It took Krshia nearly an hour, and everyone had to stop for tea to soothe hoarse throats. But at last, Lism agreed with a look of disgust. He checked the list they’d made as the [Scribe] shook out her writing hand.

The list had ideas, numbers, concepts, and laws ready to go into effect yesterday. That should have gone into effect years ago. But the Drakes and Gnolls hit on a problem as they stared at the paper. Elirr cleared his throat as he looked around the meeting room.

“So. How do we get it all started?”

The Council looked at each other. Then they turned to Olesm. He looked up.

“What? Oh! Well, I can handle some of it. I suggest sending a Runner to Watch Captain Zevara. She’ll need to be consulted on some of this. And Guildmistress Tekshia as well. It would be polite to request her presence at her convenience. For the rest—you have [Secretaries], [Scribes], [Negotiators], and more at your disposal, Councilmembers. Just send word you need someone! We might need to expand the staff, actually. You’ll need to approve the budget!”

The Council paused as they took this in. Jeiss groaned as he imagined another budget. Raekea just blinked at Olesm.

“We have [Negotiators]?”

Olesm nodded.

“Three. Would you…do you need one?”

He hesitated. Krshia looked at Lism who looked at Alonna who looked at Jeiss who looked at Elirr who didn’t bother looking at Raekea. The Gnoll just smiled.



—-



The Drake who strode into the Council’s meeting room had black, glossy scales patterned with spots of yellow leading up from his tail. He was slim, thin, and he had a smile all charm and delight. He spread his arms and gave Olesm a hug.

“Olesm! Pal! And what a beautiful new Council! Councilmembers, a delight.”

He bowed to the bemused Council, sweeping a fancy bow to them. Bemused the Council watched him straighten.

“Teliv Witherscale, at your service. I’m a part-time [Host] working at Wishdrink’s—let me know, anytime, and I’ll be happy to work for any crowd, group, or smaller party! I do dinner-parties too, and I can even liven up a birthday or level-up party! I don’t do funerals.”

“Teliv.”

Olesm sighed, resigned. His old friend winked at him. Olesm hadn’t seen Teliv in a while, but the Drake hadn’t changed. He looked around, irrepressibly cheerful as ever.

“To what do I owe the honor? Actually, scratch that. I’m delighted to meet the new Council! But if there’s anything I can do for you, don’t hesitate to ask!”

“Mister…Teliv, we actually summoned you because we need a [Negotiator] to perform a variety of tasks. We have several Guildleaders who need to understand a variety of rules we’re about to put in place, a neighboring city we need to er, negotiate with for their trade goods, and more. Is that what your class does? Have you done this for the Council?”

Lism frowned at Teliv, glancing at Olesm. He vaguely remembered the younger Drake, but he didn’t remember someone so ostentatious. Teliv’s eyes widened.

“You have work for me? Actual work?”

“You didn’t aid the previous Council in your official capacity often?”

Nothing would have surprised Alonna anymore, but she managed to sound even more disapproving. No one had seen Tismel or Zalaiss so far, or the rest of the old Council. They were no doubt trying to figure something out, but Relc’s fist had kept everyone away so far. Teliv laughed until he realized she was serious.

“Well, yes. I’m part of Liscor’s very small, very underfunded diplomatic office. Normally, the Council just needs its Watch Captain, Olesm to boss about all the scribes and make sure all those tidy laws get enforced, and a few [Runners] to make sure the system keeps moving. But sometimes, very rarely, once in five blue moons, they need someone to negotiate a deal with the [Merchants], or talk over things with another city. Then they call for me! Or Mavei. Or Aless. Don’t call them. I’m the best.”

The Council looked at Olesm. Raekea coughed.

“Is he?”

“Well…probably. Teliv’s the highest-level I think, and he’s good at his job, despite how he acts.”

The [Strategist] ignored Teliv’s hurt look.

“What? Olesm, that hurts! We’re old friends!”

“How do you know my nephew?”

“Uncle!”

Lism narrowed his eyes, but Teliv’s laugh made even the [Shopkeeper] relax.

“We met in Manus’ academies. Olesm was the studious one. I decided being a [Tactician] wasn’t for me! Manus trains [Diplomats] too. I uh, haven’t made it to that class, but if you’ve got work for me, maybe I’ll finally level up!”

“Why would Manus need to train [Diplomats]? Wouldn’t Fissival be better?”

“Oh, Fissival only trains [Scholars]. We [Diplomats] have to be a bit sterner! There are threats that come with the class! Assassination, poisoning, assault, intimidation, blackmail…”

Teliv trailed off as he saw the blank looks on the faces of the other Councilmembers.

“It’s more of a problem between other Drake cities. Liscor didn’t have anyone to talk to until recently. Except for the Humans. And do we talk to them? No, seriously, am I talking to them?”

Krshia smiled. She approved of Teliv’s attitude. She looked at Lism and held a thumbs up. He scowled as Jeiss, grinning, did the same. Alonna shrugged, Raekea nodded, Elirr scratched his head—it was only after looking at Olesm that Lism sighed.

“Very well, you’ll be present when we negotiate. First with Guardsman Klbkch—then we’ll send you to the Guildmasters. Then to Esthelm. Here’s what you need to know. We’re trying to strike a deal—”

Teliv’s face fell. He backed up slightly at Klbkch’s name.

“Antinium? I uh, don’t do Antinium. Now, Mavei…”

He turned to go. Olesm shut the door. Teliv looked at him and then patted him on the shoulder.

“So, how’s the new Council?”

Olesm grinned.

“What do you think?”

Teliv looked behind him and saw three Drakes and three Gnolls staring at him. He hesitated, and then checked himself.

“If you’ll allow me, Councilmembers. I think I need to get my suit. And a protective amulet.”



—-



Erin Solstice stopped and stared. For once, it was her stopping and staring at something else. And for once, the people gathered around City Hall weren’t there because of something they had done.

And they were gathered. It wasn’t that they were waiting for the Council or an election. It was just that the charge in the air was here. The excitement. And on the winds, the smell of change.

It was coming out of the Council with every Street Runner dashing to deliver a message. In bursts of gossip—and then pieces of parchment being distributed to sections of the city. Erin saw it hitting places like the Adventurer’s Guilds first. The adventuring teams looked up, crowded around the board of bounties and then exclaimed.

“They’re paying how much for a Blankipillar’s venom sac? Dead gods! Wings of Pallass, we’re getting right back in that dungeon! There’s a fortune rotting away down there! On me!”

Bevussa flew out of the mob and raced out of the door, faster than any of the other teams. Keldrass charged after her as Selys and another [Receptionist] tried to gather her scattered notes.

In the street, Drassi was gossiping with a bunch of Gnolls as she somehow had the latest news before anyone else.

“A mysterious [Architect] of note has agreed to design the expansion to the city? Does that mean they hired someone cheap or it’s a secret?”

“Hey, can I have some of those bulletin-things? You can put them up in my inn?”

Erin waylaid one of the Street Runners and got an armful of scrolls, the ink still drying. She hurried back to her inn and realized she didn’t have a board to put them on. So she stuck them to a wall with bits of sticky dough and the Horns of Hammerad got up from their table to read.

“Wanted. Adventurers to open a route around the Bloodfields. [Builders], [Miners], and other helpful classes also encouraged to apply. Pay is guaranteed per day and per monster slain?”

Ceria blinked as she soothed hot-tub burns on her back. Yvlon looked at Pisces. He frowned.

“Intriguing.”

“Yes. I am intrigued.”

Ksmvr imitated Pisces, glancing sideways at him. Erin laughed. There was a freshness in the air she could feel. From the unhappy [Landlords] in the streets to those cheering the new jobs, the possibilities opening up, or just the fur now present in city hall.

It was also in the Watch. Zevara stared down at the letter hand-delivered by the Street Runner from the Merchant’s Guild. She held her breath as she unfurled the scroll. The new Council didn’t even bother stamping it with wax. And they’d finished a budget in the first day? They were fast, she had to give it to them. But was it—

The Watch Captain sighed and sat back down at her desk as she read. She reviewed the sums, looked at the final number, and clenched her claw into a fist and exhaled a plume of smoke.

“Yes!”

It wasn’t everything she’d asked for. It never was. But it was a lot. Almost everything.

“You want to send a reply? Let me know and I’ll run it back!”

The Street Runner bounced on her feet, grinning. The young Gnoll was as excited as Zevara. The Watch Captain sat up and reached for her own parchment. She began writing. Then she thrust the note at the Gnoll girl.

“Send a [Message] to the Watch Captains on the list of cities I’ve written down here. Non-priority. Copy the contents to each one. Here. A tip.”

She fished out a silver piece and tossed it at the girl. She disappeared with a pleased yip. Zevara heard her thundering down the stairs. Then she sighed.

Watch Captain Zevara sat back in her chair. There was a lot you could do if you had an actual budget and more importantly, a way to get past the Bloodfields to other Drake cities. She’d dreamed of this before, but it had always been too far. But now? She glanced out one window, east, towards an inn she couldn’t see, but knew was there.

You could buy and sell between cities. Poach other promising recruits. Trade gold for needed supplies or weapons. Or lend aid where aid was needed. It was one of those archaic rules only people like Zevara ever read. In practice, it meant you could gather and call in favors. And oh, what favors…

Zevara heard something walking down the hallway. She poked her head out of her office and saw one of the senior officers. She nodded to the Gnoll.

“Beilmark. Off-duty?”

The Senior Guardswoman smiled slightly.

“Jeiss is still at work. We’ll have to find another schedule around his job. I’m taking rookies on patrol.”

She looked…well, not exactly happy. But not bad either. Zevara nodded, an acknowledgement from one [Guard] to another. Beilmark returned the gesture. Zevara paused, and then snapped her claws.

“I’m going to talk to the prisoner. Do me a favor and stop by city hall at some point? This is for them. I forgot to send it with the Street Runner.”

She disappeared into her office and scribbled frantically. Beilmark came in and found Zevara reaching into a little cupboard behind her. The Gnoll’s brows rose as she saw Zevara pull out a slightly dusty bottle.

“Have you heard that they want to set up a permanent route along the Bloodfields? That will be a challenge and a half. But it’ll mean trade all year. If they can manage it. What’s the note say?”

“Read it. It’s just about the prisoner. I’m planning on putting him to use. That’s my notice for the Council. I don’t have to ask them, only notify them.”

Beilmark read the note. Her brows shot up.

“Well, I don’t think they’ll object to any of that.”

“I don’t either. Join me for a drink? I’m off-duty starting now.”

The Gnoll hesitated. But then she shook her head.

“I’ve got to work. Watch Captain.”

She saluted and left. Zevara returned to her desk. She sat on the edge for a moment, and then regarded the bottle as she found a glass. Aged Permere Wine, a vintage made of a magical flower along with an excellent grape. The wine was so pure and clear that it almost hurt the eyes to look at. Even the clean wine glass looked dirty as it held the liquid.

Zevara was planning to share the drink with a certain someone. He might be miserable—although he had those new pets—but her news would cheer him up. It might earn her criticism but right now Zevara was floating on clouds. She looked for another glass but then she couldn’t help it. The wine was a special treat, as rare as the smile on her face. She took a drink and felt a few dead scales fall off of her arm where she’d missed them. She spat out a bit of plaque and inhaled. The world felt new. Then she lifted her glass.

“Here’s to the future.”

And she laughed.



—-



Erin Solstice stood in her inn, smiling. In the distance, Liscor stood. And it was the same old place. But it was changing. She could feel it. And that was almost upsetting. But also, wonderful.

Speaking of which…she looked around her inn. Workers trooped past her, holding buckets of copper nails and wood. Lyonette was shepherding them gently with Pawn.

“Erin, any problems with us getting to work?”

“Nope! You do that building thing, Lyonette!”

Erin gave Lyonette a thumbs-up. The [Princess] smiled and turned back to Pawn. After a moment, she came over to Erin.

“How are things?”

“Good! I mean, everyone’s super busy. But I bet Krshia and Selys will tell me about it tonight.”

“And Olesm? How about him and his uncle?”

Erin paused. She wavered, and then shrugged.

“Eh, I’ll wait until he comes crawling to me to make peace. I still think he’s a jerk for going after Calruz and Klbkch. But he’s still a friend. I’m gonna beat him at chess a lot, though!”

“Fair enough. Oh—someone’s calling you. I’ll get back to work. We’re going to build those hot tubs you mentioned! And a new wing of the inn! Pawn! Where did you go?”

Lyonette hurried off. Erin watched her leave the inn, and then turned. Someone was indeed calling her name. She saw a Drake hurry over, a wooden clipboard and bit of parchment neatly held in place at both ends.

“Excuse me, Miss. Are you Miss Erin Solstice?”

“That’s me! Hey! Are you from the new Council?”

Erin beamed at the Drake. He adjusted the clipboard and quill. He had a few splotches of ink on his pale orange scales. He nodded.

“I am! Geillsten. At your service.”

“How can I help you, Geillsten? If you’re looking for Klbkch—”

“No, Miss Solstice. You are just the person I’ve been looking for! I have a message from the Council.”

“Ooh! From Krshia? Or Lism.”

The Drake coughed reprovingly.

“All of the Council, Miss Solstice. They have enacted a number of reforms lately. Among them, they’ve seen fit to bestow upon you some honors for your efforts in aiding Liscor!”

“Wh—really? Well, about time!”

Erin beamed. Geillsten just gave her a slow nod.

“Yes. And for your efforts, and due to your inn’s proximity to the city of Liscor, they have decided that your inn, and you are defacto inhabitants of the city. As such, you are entitled to the rights and responsibilities of a citizen of Liscor and the protections of the Watch, as they note you have enjoyed since your initial stay at Liscor.”

The young woman slapped her forehead, scowling.

“What? I’m a citizen? Just like that? Couldn’t they have done it yesterday? And—”

Then the wording of the Drake’s message caught up with her. Erin paused.

“Wait, since the beginning? The rights and…”

“Responsibilities, yes. You aren’t in trouble, Miss Solstice. But I am here to ah, ensure your civic duty is carried out.”

Erin stared at the Drake.

“Say, Geillsten? What’s your class?”

“[Tax Collector], Miss Solstice.”

The penny dropped. Erin looked around, but Geillsten was standing neatly in front of her. And she couldn’t kill him and melt his body with acid fly juice! She’d sold all of it yesterday! She hesitated and scuffed one foot on the floorboards.

“I uh, haven’t been keeping a record of how much I make. And to be fair, I didn’t know I should, so…”

She looked hopefully at him. The Drake gave her an encouraging smile.

“Not to worry, Miss Solstice. Happily, as a [Tax Collector], I have a Skill which allows me to calculate exactly how much you owe. You can be sure that the number I produce is accurate and fair—I am routinely checked by the Watch under truth spell, and you may pay a nominal fee to ensure the accuracy yourself if you so choose!”

“Oh. Oh, that’s—er, do I have to do anything?”

“Not at all, Miss Solstice. If you’ll just wait here? I will conduct my inspection.”

“Sure…”

Erin looked around for Lyonette. But it was no good. The Drake began walking around her, peering at her or through her at something. He began writing furiously on the parchment.

“Hmm…oh my. Well, there are a number of sources of income that the city does not count as viable taxation, so let me just note that all down here…and here…and here…er, did you really sell a flower for…pardon me, I shouldn’t ask…very well. With those incomes subtracted—please pardon me, the Council wishes to see a copy of this report—here is your owed tax, Miss Solstice!”

He finished and showed Erin a notation at the bottom of the parchment. Then he neatly tore the number off, handed it to her, and gave her an embarrassed smile.

“I am sorry. It is my job, and I do see that you can pay the indicated sum.”

“Buh.”

“If you would require time, there are repayment options I can go over with you—”

“Huh.”

Geillsten hesitated. He coughed again and cleared his throat. His was a thankless job.

“The Council also wished to inform you that they will be sending a delegation to negotiate with Esthelm, and given your previous aid to the city, they would consider it a personal favor if you aided the [Negotiator] in his task. I believed they phrased it as a ‘civic duty’, Miss Solstice.”

Erin jerked out of her stupor. Lyonette was going to kill her. As soon as she killed Krshia! How could she? Erin narrowed her eyes at the Drake.

“What? My ‘civic’—is that some kind of shady threat?”

The Drake looked appalled.

“Oh, you’re free to decline! However, the Council would also agree to discount your taxes by…this much if you accept. And put you in for a citizenship, along with your wards, Miss Lyonette and Miss Mrsha! And perhaps a provisional entry permit for your ah, employee? Mister Numbtongue?”

He showed Erin another number. Erin bit her tongue and stared at him. The Drake gave her a smile full of chagrin. She sighed.

“You’re really good at your job, Geillsten. Do people ever get mad at you?”

“More than one wishes, Miss Solstice. But it is a knack. And a Skill. The Council would like a reply by tonight—you may send a Street Runner to them free of charge or apply for a meeting in person, although I understand there is a queue—thank you for your time. And not throwing stones at me.”

He bowed and was gone. Erin watched him go. She thought of the new Council, full of vim, vigor, and cheap but filling sandwiches. She thought of change, and what Liscor could be.

Because that was what it was about. You could stay the same forever. Or you could…Erin looked around her inn. She looked out, at the city of Liscor in the distance.

Then she stared at the number on the parchment. Erin sighed.

“I hate progress.”





6.50 I


Erin Solstice’s inn was now an establishment. Not just a curio, an attraction, or simply a locus of unusual events. It was a home, a gathering spot. A place that people had made their habit to visit, for food, entertainment, and in that way, it became part of their lives. Like a local diner, or a library, or park, The Wandering Inn’s worth had taken on a value you couldn’t sum up in an arbitrary number.

Well, you could if you were paying taxes. Erin sat in her inn the next morning, feeling a bit grouchy. She’d paid the taxes. Since it wasn’t a small amount, the friendly tax-Drake, Geillsten, had even arranged for two ordinary [Guards] to pick the gold up in a bag of holding. And how polite they’d been, too!

She’d paid. But Erin had not had a good yesterday of it. First, Lyonette had scolded her for ten minutes and then gone off to see if she could renegotiate the terms. After all, it wasn’t fair! You couldn’t tax someone for before they were a citizen, right?

Well, the [Princess] had found out that you could and Liscor would do just that. Geillsten had referred her to the Council’s notes, which had pointed out that Erin had received the City Watch’s help on numerous occasions—an officer had even died protecting Erin’s inn. Klbkch.

Never mind the fact he had come back or that he and Relc had been helping her as friends. The fact was that Erin’s inn had benefited from the City Watch patrolling around Liscor to remove the majority of monster threats, the healing potion Klbkch had given her that was City Watch equipment, and the numerous occasions the City Watch had helped resolve crises threatening Erin’s inn.

“And to be clear, Miss Lyonette, the Council’s position on this is that a tax should be paid. And they have allowed Miss Solstice to claim a number of discounts, including a sizable one for aiding in the negotiations with Esthelm.”

And that was that. Lyonette had glumly returned to the inn empty-handed. Because, when you got down to it, Liscor’s new democracy only extended to electing the Council. In their seat of authority, the Council could enact whichever laws they pleased.

“It’s like a monarchy. Only, [Kings] are often balanced by a lot of forces. Their advisors, the nobility, public unrest—but some of them can simply order someone to be jailed or someone to pay more taxes. It’s all about having the right kind of power, Mrsha. Knowing how to use it and incur the least amount of pushback or mitigating it.”

Lyonette had balanced Mrsha on one knee as she explained why Erin was counting gold coins. The [Innkeeper] wasn’t sure that was a suitable lesson for Mrsha, but she didn’t have much to say. So she’d paid up the next day and now she glumly regarded the contents of her safe.

It was still quite a bit. But Lyonette’s not-quite-a-glare as she put out today’s breakfast for the inn’s morning crowd told Erin it wasn’t good.

“We’ve still got enough to pay the staff and buy food and stuff! Plenty! We could go for like, a month on this alone!”

Erin weakly pointed at the coins with a smile. Lyonette pursed her lips. As she passed by with a huge, fluffy roll of bread and a bread knife, she pointedly looked at four table’s worth of Antinium Soldiers and Workers.

“That money was supposed to be used for refurbishing the inn, Erin. I’ll have to talk with Klbkch about delaying the first payments. And I’ll need you to make more ice cream. That’s one of our best sellers. In those…”

“Cones. They’re good, right?”

Lyonette sighed. But she nodded. Erin’s latest little innovation had been recreating the hard-batter cones that made ice cream a thousand times better than eating them in bowls. Plus you could walk around with them!

“I’ll need as much as you can make. Ishkr will buy the ingredients if you need more. No buts! You’re in the kitchen at least for three hours! Then you can go to Pallass.”

“But—”

Lyonette glared. Erin weakly smiled.

“But Lyonette, I have to go to Esthelm today! You know, to negotiate and stuff?”

The [Princess]’s brows crossed.

“Today?”

“Yup. For the discount?”

The [Innkeeper] watched as Lyonette tossed the fresh loaf of the bread on the table in disgust. Lyonette ground her teeth, and then nodded.

“Fine, I’ll get Ishkr to make the ice cream and have—how long will you be?”

“Um…”

At another table, the Horns of Hammerad were eating. Pisces, Ceria, Ksmvr, and Yvlon were having a rather nice meal of cereal grains flavored with a bit of sugar. Just a bit; the days of cheap honey were gone with the Ashfire Bee nest, which Ceria deeply regretted. Still—the food was really good. She noticed Ksmvr bouncing in his seat and watching Erin and Lyonette.

“What’s wrong, Ksmvr?”

“I am waiting for my sustenance, Captain Ceria.”

The half-Elf eyed Ksmvr. He alone wasn’t eating cereal.

“What, the bread? Is that all you’re eating for breakfast?”

The Antinium paused.

“Is that a bad thing?”

“Um…”

Ceria had no idea. She suspected it was, but Ksmvr couldn’t get enough of gluten after discovering the Amulet of Food Poison Resistance or whatever it was. It turned out lots of Antinium liked gluten—they were just hugely intolerant to it.

“Just eat your bugs for dinner or something.”

The [Ice Mage] finished lamely. She heard a snort, but Yvlon and Pisces’ faces were completely neutral when she looked over. After a moment, Yvlon glanced over.

“You might have to go and get the bread yourself, Ksmvr. Lyonette’s not looking too happy.”

“I will acquire my breakfast now, then, Yvlon. I must not be the weakest link. Miss Erin has informed me of the perils of being one.”

Ksmvr got up. Ceria blinked for a few seconds, and then decided it wasn’t worth commenting on. She looked at the rest of her team, and then at the diners the next table over.

“Hey, Bevussa, what’s your team doing today? You interested in the new missions being offered by Liscor’s Council?”

The Garuda sitting at the next table with her team looked up. She was having breakfast at the inn. Some of her team looked a bit annoyed at the question; Ceria was still Silver-rank. But Bevussa just smiled and shrugged.

“It’s interesting. They want to chew a regular trade route towards Pallass? It’s been tried before.”

“Really?”

Ceria frowned. Among the latest developments in Liscor, the decision to build a trade route to Pallass had been of most interest to her team. Bevussa nodded.

“Liscor had one, I think. Before the second Antinium War. Then—you know, the Necromancer—the city lost a lot of outlying villages in the Floodplains and trade stopped with the Antinium Hive. Not that it was doing well after the First Antinium War…”

“Wars tend to do that.”

One of the other Oldblood Drakes offered helpfully. Bevussa stared at him.

“Yeah. I guess they do, Zassil. Imagine that?”

“I’m just saying. Wars. Bad for the economy.”

“We get it, Zassil. That was Bevussa being sarcastic. This is me being mad.”

Issa, another Drake, snapped. Zassil looked hurt. Ceria bit her lip to keep from laughing.

“I’m just trying to contribute to the conversation.”

“How? What does that statement have to offer? Why would you even say that? Wars are bad for trade? Hey, you know what? When I flap my wings, I sometimes fly.”

“Not for much longer with how much you’re eating.”

Bevussa ignored her squabbling teammates. She turned back to Ceria and shook her head in response to the first question.

“Interesting, yeah. But not for us. We’re sticking with the dungeon. That’s where the real gold is.”

Her last teammate, the silent Kin, looked up and nodded, brushing crumbs off his—her?—scales as Zassil and Issa threw bread pieces at each other. Ceria made a face. The bounties on monster parts were now being made into a very attractive list in the Adventurer’s Guild. You could get two gold coins for an adult Blankipillar’s venom sac, intact.

It was going to drive even more interest to Liscor as adventurers came in looking for safe monster-hunting work as opposed to dungeon exploration which was far riskier and didn’t guarantee pay. But…she shook her head and nodded to her team.

“We have a thing about the dungeon. The Bloodfields sounds like good work until the door gets to Invrisil. Safer than the dungeon, too.”

Bevussa nodded understandingly. Then she frowned.

“Just remember, the Bloodfields aren’t much safer than the dungeon. If it was winter, well, that’s different. But the summer? Just stay clear of it, got it? Even the border! And watch out—even regular monsters might steer clear of the Bloodfields, but nasty types sometimes still hang about the area.”

The Horns of Hammerad nodded seriously. Ksmvr was trying to figure out how to eat his half of the loaf. Ceria bit her lip, and nodded.

“Hopefully we never get close. It’s to make a safe route around; but we’ll be careful.”

“So when’s the work start?”

Ceria had no idea. She looked at Yvlon, who’d signed them up at the Adventurer’s Guild. The [Wounded Warrior] raised her shoulders.

“In a day or two. It’s still being organized. We’re just recruiting teams today. The Council’s offering us a headhunter fee for every team in Celum we can get to work on the request. So we’re going to reach out to some teams we know. Hopefully they’ll listen.”

“Huh, what’s the fee?”

“Just a few silver—”

Everyone winced as someone dropped a plate with a crash of pottery. Ceria looked over and saw a white shape on the ground and a broken plate full of eggs. Mrsha got up and stared at the plate of breakfast she’d been trying to bring to Numbtongue’s table. She stared at it and her eyes filled up.

“Oh, Mrsha! Are you alright? Come here. It’s okay, it’s okay! Are you cut? Let me see.”

Erin, Lyonette, and several others immediately converged on the Gnoll. So did Numbtongue. He squatted down and investigated the plate of eggs mixed with shards. Mrsha wasn’t hurt; she’d just tripped. But she was staring at the broken plate and food and crying. Numbtongue watched as Lyonette and Erin cuddled Mrsha and tried to reassure her. He reached for the eggs and began to munch on them.

“Numbtongue! Stop that! You could swallow some shards! It’s all right, Mrsha. Eggs are cheap. I used to find them all the time. Those Dino Birds lay them in the ground. Here. Ishkr! Broom! And we’ll get new eggs…”

This was morning in The Wandering Inn. Everyone watched out of the corner of their eyes as Mrsha went into the kitchen with Erin and Lyonette and came back with another plate of eggs in a moment. She put it on the table in front of Numbtongue. He nodded, smiled, and began to eat. And Mrsha sat with him, wagging her tail as Erin and Lyonette helped Ishkr and the two Gnolls on morning duty pass out the rest of the food.

“Erin! Hey, Erin! Is my thing ready?”

A pale, scaly hand and unfamiliar voice waved at Erin as she passed by Numbtongue’s table. She looked over and recognized Jelaqua. Different body, same grin. Erin blinked.

“Not yet! Give them like, five minutes, Jelaqua?”

“Got it. Hey! All these adventurers in the inn, huh? Feels like a second Adventurer’s Guild!”

The Selphid grinned at the other teams eating around her. Bevussa called over to the Selphid.

“Jelaqua, is your team interested in the Bloodfields mission? I thought you were still going to Invrisil.”

“Yeah, well, the thing is…we’re getting there! A few miles a day. Sometimes more. I’m uh, on vacation. You know. With Maughin?”

Jelaqua grinned a bit nervously. Ceria exchanged glances with her team. Bevussa nodded slowly.

“Right.”

“Now that’s news. Wonder what it’s like in Pallass. A Dullahan and a Selphid? I wish I could hear the gossip.”

Zassil commented under his breath. Issa kicked him.

“Don’t be a lizard. It’s sweet!”

“I’m just saying. Maughin? Master Maughin? And…”

“It takes all kinds, Zassil.”

“Yeah, but how many kinds? And how many bodies? I mean, that’s a nice one. Objectively, right? If it was just that one, awesome, but what if—stop kicking me!”

Jelaqua was talking, oblivious to the side conversation.

“So I’m out. And my uh, team, is sort of on vacation too. At least, they’re either doing that or moving the door. I gotta make it up to them a bit.”

She grinned a bit wanly. Bevussa looked around, although Moore’s absence was conspicuous.

“Right. Where are they today?”

“Seborn and Moore? They’re in Pallass. Moore’s been getting depressed lately. Female company, you know? A lack of it. So Seborn finally got him to…er…”

Jelaqua caught Mrsha’s eye. She and Lyonette were both giving the Selphid expectant looks at the next table. So was Erin. Numbtongue, frowning and listening as he ate breakfast, paused, and then his expression cleared as Pyrite told him the answer.

Jelaqua coughed.

“Well, they’re just going to look.”

“Look at what?”

“Well—hey, Erin! Are those cookies done?”

“Let me check. Uh…yep! One sec! Hey, is there a bag anywhere?”

“I’ve got one! Bag of holding. Right here!”

The Selphid hurried into the kitchen. Ceria saw her coming out, patting a bag. Erin had a smaller platter of the rest of the cookies.

“And I made a double batch! Who wants—”

Half the hands in the inn shot up. Lyonette cleared her throat.

“That’s extra, not breakfast.”

Only three hands went down. Mrsha waved hers eagerly. Pisces, who had hitherto been preoccupied with his cereal and reading a book at the table, flicked a finger. Erin yelped as a cookie tried to float off her plate. Then another.

“Hey! Whoever’s doing that, stop!”

Pisces, Ceria, and Kin all paused guiltily. Erin snatched the floating cookies back and counted.

“There’s enough for all of you! Now, Lyonette, here’s the cookies. You can make them pay. Jelaqua, that good?”

The Selphid was counting her custom-ordered cookies. She patted the bag again, and then looked at Erin. She smiled.

“I think so. Thanks for doing this, Erin. Really.”

“No problem! You could actually make them yourself, you know. Gonna share them with a certain, uh…Maughin?”

The Selphid blushed in an interesting way. Her cheeks stayed pale, but a lattice of what Ceria took to be her actual form appeared under the pale scales, faintly orange. It was even more distinctive when she wore a Human’s body. She waved a claw awkwardly.

“I don’t want to mess it up. Besides, I don’t even have [Basic Cooking]. I mean, I know I don’t need it, but I can’t make everything perfectly. And—dead hands, you know? Well, claws today.”

She was still a bit orange. Erin nodded, noticing how nervous the normally-cheerful Selphid was. She edged over with Jelaqua towards the magic door. It was currently open to Celum and you could see Octavia’s shop inside. Octavia too; the [Alchemist] had had a quick breakfast but she was working on something. She still glanced occasionally back towards Erin’s inn every now and then.

“So, what’re the cookies for? A date today?”

Erin teased Jelaqua, smiling. The Selphid hesitated.

“Well, nothing grand. But Maughin’s not working, so he invited me to visit some of Pallass’ attractions. They have this amazing display of these…interlockers is what they call them, I think. The things they use to make the elevators? Maughin’s made some parts, so the [Engineers] invited him for a new display.”

“Ooh! Sounds cool. I should visit Pallass more often myself. There’s so much I haven’t seen! I bet you’ve got lots to do, right? Have you visited Pallass before?”

“Oh, yeah. Nine years back? When the Halfseekers worked in the south. But…well, there’s not as much for a Selphid to do. Massages, bathhouses—no real good. I can adjust my body myself, and I need a really fresh one to enjoy a massage. And it creeps out anyone who’s not used to Selphids. And bathhouses? I’m just glad there’s other stuff to do.”

Jelaqua shook her head. Erin studied her.

“You’ve gone on a lotta dates. I think you’re serious about this.”

The Selphid squirmed.

“I am. At least, it’s been the first time in like, eight years since I met anyone I hit it off with this well. Hey, Erin. Between us. Maughin and me. Do you…think it’s a good fit?”

Erin took the question seriously. She nodded.

“I think he likes you. Maybe even more than hitting things with a hammer. And I think you’ll be fine. He likes you. And you like him. And you know that he likes you. And he knows that you like him. And you know that he knows that you know that…well, it’s good! Don’t worry! I’m sure he’ll like the cookies.”

The Selphid smiled at Erin, relieved.

“Thanks, Erin. You’re the best! Okay, I’m off! Mind changing the door…?”

“Oh, sure. Octavia! Just letting Jelaqua through to Pallass! Say, are you on the list? Hey guys! Jelaqua’s not on the list! Sorry!”

The door opened and closed after Erin argued with the Drakes on the other side for a bit. The rest of the inn’s breakfasters began finishing up. Ceria got up with a sigh.

“Time to head to Celum. Let’s talk to Crossbow Stan first. He’ll listen to us most. Yvlon and I will do the talking, Ksmvr. No asserting dominance.”

“I shall be meekly subordinate, Captain.”

“And I will study. I have been far too remiss as it is in keeping up my magical practice.”

The [Necromancer] sitting at the table didn’t move as Yvlon got up. Ceria snapped at him.

“Pisces!”

He just looked up and raised his brows sardonically.

“My presence is surely not needed negotiating with Celum’s adventuring teams, is it? In fact, I would consider it a hindrance. Wouldn’t you, oh glorious Captain?”

That was a good point. Pisces’ absence would be helpful. But—Ceria hesitated. Yvlon took over and slapped Pisces on the back. He winced and she frowned at him.

“You really have to stop making all your good points as obnoxiously as possible, Pisces. Fine. Stay. Right, Ceria?”

She looked at Ceria and the half-Elf reluctantly nodded.

“I suppose it’s for the best. But you’re not weaseling out of work, Pisces!”

“Perish the thought. I’m preparing myself for that very moment.”

Pisces looked up and nodded. He even seemed serious. Then he turned back to his breakfast, flipping open his personal spellbook and checking his notes. He reminded Ceria of his days as student, in fact. She paused, and then gave up and went towards the door.

“Mind if you send us to Liscor, Erin? I’d fly, but my stomach’s first.”

Bevussa was first in line. Erin shut the door, obligingly changed it, and sent the teams out to Liscor, and then the Horns to Celum.

The visitor arrived just after the flow of traffic ended. And he came through the actual, ordinary door which was a surprise. Erin turned as a Drake with black scales spotted with yellow swept into the room. Teliv Witherscale looked around warily, and then put a beaming smile on his face as soon as he saw Erin.

“Hello, hello! Are you by any chance the Erin Solstice? Teliv Witherscale, at your service! I’m the [Negotiator] in charge of the Esthelm diplomatic trip. We’re all ready to depart; the wagons are just rolling north with their escort! But we can catch up to them in an hour without issue if you need to wait!”

He strode over to Erin and she found herself shaking his claw. And it was the perfect handshake—firm, but not too strong—the kind that made you feel like you weren’t failing at the opening greeting. She liked Teliv instantly, and wasn’t sure if it was a Skill or just the Drake’s personality.

“Hi! I’m Erin! Sorry, did you say the wagons are going now? Am I late? That tax guy just said someone would pick me up!”

“Not late at all, not at all! The main convoy’s just moving at a different pace. There’s a Watch escort and not all the [Wagon Drivers] have movement Skills. I have one ready to go that can easily catch up—or, if you can ride, we can take horses! But where are my manners?”

So saying, he produced a bright green flower and offered it to Erin. She was tickled pink.

“Flowers?”

Teliv winked at her.

“I know it’s antiquated. Although they do teach us to give flowers at the academy! But it is a delight to meet the iconic, no, legendary owner of The Wandering Inn! Olesm has told me such tales—when he deigns to visit me. I’ll admit, we run in different circles these days, but I envy his company!”

“You know Olesm?”

Erin blinked. Teliv smiled.

“Why, of course I do! He’s never mentioned me? Not once? His handsome, charming friend?”

“Maybe—but why have I never seen you with Olesm, then? Or at my inn?”

Erin propped her hands on her hips. Teliv smiled apologetically.

“My dear Miss Solstice, I’m afraid that’s because I have a healthy regard for my life. I’m positively allergic to death or situations that cause it. Or trouble, for that matter. Hence my reluctant aversion to your inn!”

The Drake sighed. He turned, spreading the smile to Lyonette and Mrsha, who’d both come to stare at him. Erin was impressed; when Teliv saw Numbtongue he only froze up for a microsecond. Then he just smiled at the Hobgoblin. He was pretty good.

“I also spend altogether too much time in such establishments as it is. I work at Wishdrink’s, if you didn’t know. I also work as a [Host] and if you’d like to offer me competitive rates at your inn…”

“Uh—[Host]? And [Negotiator]? I didn’t know Liscor had either. Well, we can talk about it. I mean, we’ll be travelling for a day, right? Hey, we can take the magic door to Esthelm in back! We could even let the other people take it there! Lyonette, where are the extra mana stones? Or maybe I should go with you. To set it up properly.”

And to avoid making ice cream for four hours. Teliv blinked, but he let Erin lead him to the door and explain how it worked.

“I’d heard about this, Miss Solstice. Teleportation magic. Er, it’s completely safe?”

“Yeah, probably. Why?”

“No reason, no reason! It’s just that I’m familiar with Fissival’s network and ah, well, I suppose it would help. Not to mention, a door would definitely improve our negotiations! Bring it or those little stones, by all means! But please, Miss Solstice, the Council has asked me to tell you that this is a sensitive mission. Your presence is necessary due to the goodwill Esthelm’s people feel towards you, but I would appreciate it if you left the bargaining to me.”

Teliv eyed Erin. She put her hands on her hips, a bit miffed.

“So I’m just there as, what, entertainment? Goodwill? Krshia’s got a lotta nerve telling me to do this and do that! All the power’s gotten to her head! Or Lism has! Power corrupts! Anyways, if I’m so unpredictable and you’re so afraid of death, why are you going with me to Esthelm?”

The Drake sighed again.

“Duty calls, Miss Solstice. And to be fair, being paid to stick my tail into danger is quite different from seeking it out. Now, I’m sure we’ll have plenty of time to debate the Council and all manner of interesting topics on the road! But let’s keep things in order. I’d like to be on the road in twenty minutes just so we can stay with the wagons.”

He was brisk, for all he laid on the likeability! Erin nodded, waving at Lyonette who was bringing the extra mana stones over.

“Okay. I guess we can make a door at Esthelm to get back. So…I’ve got my knife, um—I’ll get a healing potion or two? Anything else I should bring?”

“Not much to defend yourself, I should think. It’s not far and we won’t be passing through any unpredictable wilderness. But if you have anything that would smooth our introduction to Esthelm—well, I was saving this for the road, but let me brief you on the mission.”

Teliv walked with Erin as she went into the kitchen, and then he was speaking rapidly, in a business-like tone that did remind Erin of Olesm a bit.

“Esthelm’s hit a poor patch of late. Of course, you helped repair their walls, but the city’s population was decimated. They’re poor, to put it frankly, and not a little traumatized from the Goblin Lord’s attack. A delicate touch is needed, hence our gift of dried fish from the spring’s harvest and your presence. Even so, I would appreciate it if you didn’t…do anything too extreme. Unless it helps the cause. And refraining from mentioning that Liscor is positively swimming with Gold-rank adventurers and so on might help. We are just two cities on the border trying to help each other, not a rich city looking down on a poor one.”

“Got it.”

Erin nodded as she rummaged through her cupboards. She thought for a second and then found her special wing of the pantry marked ‘NOT FOR COOKING’ in huge letters.

“In that case, maybe I should bring some acid jars along. To give to them. And some chess sets? Everyone likes chess! And I should have made a third batch of cookies! Oh well. Here’s the jars…darn, I really should have a bag of holding for stuff like this! But it’s expensive, or so Selys says! What if I borrowed hers? Hey, Teliv, hold these?”

The Drake found himself holding two glass jars of green liquid. He stared at them and then recalled one of his notes on Erin Solstice. Gingerly, he backed out of the kitchen and put the jars on a table. He caught Lyonette pulling Mrsha well clear of the jars.

“Don’t let her drop those anywhere near you.”

The [Princess] pointed at the acid jars. Teliv shuddered as Erin came out with two more. To her credit, she was holding them very carefully herself.

“Maybe refrain from displays of wealth, Miss Solstice? We’ll stow your jars on the wagons without the bag of holding. Far from us.”

Erin nodded. She placed the jars on the table and looked around. Anything else? Nothing off the top of her head. Besides, she was just helping out. Then she studied her dress. She took her apron off after a second’s thought and regarded her attire.

“Huh. Okay. I’m not dressed too badly. But—oh! Should I take my ring off?”

“What ring?”

Lyonette, keeping Mrsha back from the acid jars, looked up. Teliv, Pisces, still at his table, and even Mrsha and Numbtongue looked around. Erin waved her right hand.

“This—”

Erin went to point to the ring on her finger. The golden ring that Ilvriss had given her. Then she realized what she was doing and hesitated, but it was too late.

“—ring. I wear it sometimes. It’s cool, huh?”

Lamely, she twisted it a bit so the golden letters weren’t visible. Lyonette frowned as she walked over. She stared at the ring on Erin’s finger, mystified.

“I have never seen you wear that ring in my life, Erin.”

“What? No, I wore it yesterday.”

Erin protested, blinking at Lyonette. The [Princess] raised her brows.

“Oh? Well, maybe. I must have forgotten it. Where’d you get it? You could buy something far nicer at the marketplace. That’s sort of…”

She looked around, hesitating, then went for it.

“Plain?”

Erin frowned, hurt. And then she really frowned as she stared at the ring on her finger.

“What? I mean, it’s not full of jewels, but it is gold, right?”

Lyonette stared at the ring.

“That’s not gold, Erin.”

This time the [Innkeeper] really hesitated. She frowned at Lyonette, expecting a joke, but Lyonette didn’t do jokes that much. Slowly, Erin regarded the ring that bore the single word, ‘Salazsar’, on it. And on a hunch, she interjected a bit of incredulity into her voice.

“It’s not golden to you?”

Lyonette raised her eyebrows, surprised. She looked at the ring and shook her head. Mrsha did the same. Erin showed the ring to Teliv and he shrugged.

“Doesn’t look like gold to me, but I’m no expert.”

“I am. Show me.”

Pisces leaned over and narrowed his eyes as Erin took the ring off her ringer. He stared at Ilvriss’ ring in Erin’s palm dismissively for a second and shook his head.

“Copper.”

Lyonette nodded, agreeing with a sigh.

“Polished well. Erin, you know what gold coins look like. You didn’t pay for it as if it were gold, did you? Never mind, I don’t want to know. If you like it’s that’s great.”

Erin looked at her. Then at the plain, copper ring on her hand. She put it on and stared again. Then she looked up with a guileless smile that was in fact, full of guile. But well-hidden.

“Oh. Well, right. I wear it sometimes. Don’t be jerks about it! I like copper.”

She put the ring back on her finger before anyone could see the faint indentation of flesh. And she looked at the ring thoughtfully for another second. But then Teliv was politely urging her towards the waiting wagon, and Erin had an adventure to attend to in Esthelm! Not a huge one if Teliv had his way, but Erin wanted to see how the city had fared since she’d helped it. So, it turned out, did Numbtongue.

Of course, that was a bad idea, at least, according to Teliv. But soon Erin was on the road and busy. She was always busy, but sometimes she remembered how quiet her inn had been. And all the old guests who had left or…gone.

Her old Antinium chess players. Halrac and his team. The original Horns of Hammerad. Once, Brunkr. Ryoka. And…Erin sat on the wagon, and looked at the ring on her finger. Sometimes she forgot it was there. It was comfortable; if she didn’t think of it, it felt like part of her finger. And no one remembered her wearing it? Come to that—Erin narrowed her eyes and then fished out a gold coin. She stared at it and at the ring.

“Huh.”

She wanted to know what it meant, but Teliv wasn’t the person to ask. Like the special coin in her safe, it was something to ponder and ask the right people. And it did remind Erin of a certain jerk who hadn’t been completely a jerk. Sometimes she even missed him.

She wondered what he was doing now.



—-



Wall Lord Ilvriss of Salazsar was home. He had returned to his Walled City, the City of Gems, Salazsar, located in the mountainous eastern region of Izril. And had Erin Solstice wished it, she could have found out his whereabouts and what he was up to quite easily.

Anyone could. It was a fact of this world that thanks to [Message] spells and the changing nature of politics, information was power. And Ilvriss was a name. One of many, true. But a Wall Lord still merited enough attention that his actions were the talk of Salazsar.

They said he’d gone after Zel Shivertail even though a truce had been called between the Trisstal Alliance and Salazsar. Even though the Goblin Lord had been attacking Drake and Human cities, Ilvriss hadn’t let go of the grudge and dueled Zel Shivertail. The injuries of that duel had led to General Shivertail’s demise at the Goblin Lord’s claws.

No, it wasn’t vengeance. Wall Lord Ilvriss had gone with General Shivertail to raise another army! He’d balked at working with the Humans, obviously, but he’d been holding the walls while the Humans assailed Liscor.

Actually—and let’s be clear here—it was neither. If you wanted to know the real details of Ilvriss’ mysterious sojourn abroad, it was all to do with the rumored lover he had. He’d met her in Liscor and all the other incidents he’d been involved in were a result of that getaway! But they’d broken up, hence his abrupt return.

Those were the three biggest theories, and there were some other rumors, with everything from Ilvriss trying to become Liscor’s next Wall Lord, or that he’d taken some serious injury in the battle with Zel Shivertail or their following clash with the Goblin Lord and been forced to recover.

Rumors of a liaison with a Gnoll, or even more scandalous, a Human were never founded. But then again, no one who understood the significance of it took the absence of the plain, golden ring on Ilvriss’ claws lightly.

The sheer fact was that Ilvriss had everyone’s on him in the weeks after his return. And what had he done? Well—partied.

But in a refined way. What he’d done since returning home was throw a series of the most exquisite soirees and dinner parties that had Salazsar’s elites toasting him nightly. Of course, what else was a son of Salazsar to do when they’d been away from their home and thus, culture, for so long?

However, ironically, those actions were positively mundane compared to the aura of mystery Ilvriss had cultivated while abroad. So the well-received parties soon became of no interest to anyone but those invited and possibly an envious mention in passing. And that was just how Ilvriss intended it.

It was in fact, morning in Salazsar, albeit a cold and frosty one in the highest reaches of the towers of the Walled City. Of course, the nobility could pay for as much magical heating as they liked, and so it didn’t touch Ilvriss as he stood on a balcony and walkway leading to the private routes the Wall Lords and Ladies could use.

Like the rest of Salazsar, the towers and reaching structures of the Walled City were connected by walkways. The lower parts of the city were the most densely populated; wealth stood above. In fact, Ilvriss’s family owned this particular spire, from top to bottom. And his personal estates—more vertical than sprawling—occupied the top of the tower.

The Wall Lord suppressed the urge to yawn as he heard the door open behind him. He’d had a late night of refined debauchery. And the Drake responsible for about sixty percent of said debauchery was stumbling out, shrugging off the help of the few attendants Ilvriss employed.

It wasn’t Brilm. Or Hesalief. Or the six other Drakes who’d attended the private little party in Ilvriss’ estates. No, only one Drake could and would keep drinking even when the sun had come back up. And he came stumbling out of the door helped by the Drake [Housekeeper].

[Housekeeper]. It was an important distinction. Ilvriss employed a [Chef], [Cleaners], [Waiters]—no [Servants]. True, you could argue that [Housekeeper] was just a higher-ranking servant, but in the context of Drake society, a [Housekeeper], like a [Cleaner], was someone you employed. Not someone you were better than; and indeed, if you threw dirty clothes on the floor in front of a Drake [Housekeeper], they’d probably throw it right back.

Drakes believed in military discipline and ranks, but not servitude. So there was no [Butler] or [Manservant] to haul the Wall Lord who came stumbling out to stand next to Ilvriss to a waiting carriage and speed him back to his estates. You couldn’t fit a carriage on the walkways this high up anyways, and horses had a thing about heights. He’d have to walk, or failing that, stumble home.

“Tasilt.”

Ilvriss winced at the sound of his own voice. He reached into a pocket of his robes and withdrew a small vial. He uncorked it and drank the hangover potion as Tasilt grinned blearily at him.

“What’s that? Hangover potion already? You’ve lost your step, Ilvriss.”

“And you’re taking far too many. For yourself?”

Ilvriss offered the vial to Tasilt. He normally didn’t drink that much, but Tasilt was a bad influence. The rest of the Wall Lords that Ilvriss had invited to the dinner that had turned into drinking had all needed one. But Tasilt just waved a claw vaguely.

“I’m still pleasantly, no, happily drunk. That was a fine repast! And the drinks afterwards! Just…”

He tried to blow a kiss with his claws.

“Now that is the Ilvriss Gemscale I know. A Drake of taste. Sophistication! And—and—”

“Fine wine?”

Ilvriss raised his brows drily. Tasilt took two steps left, stumbling unsteadily. He had to lean on the balcony as he nodded.

“Exceedingly! Although, I will own, at some point it’s lost on me since I feel the point is to be happily drunk, not classily tipsy. A waste of a good vintage!”

“Some wines are meant to be shared. Or else why bother hoarding at all? It was only a Laile.”

“True! True! But generous, nevertheless. I’ve half a dozen bottles I’m terrified to open, do you know? They’re in my vaults under Preservation Runes along with everything else. I’d love to taste just one, but my heirs would kill me. As would my dear beloved. It’s inheritance.”

Tasilt heaved a huge sigh. He squinted out at the brightening skyline.

“Ancestors, it is dawn already, isn’t it? I should have been home ages. And I’m due a meeting with these [Merchants] in four hours! Dead gods, I wish we were young again, Ilvriss. Free of work!”

“We’ve certainly acted like it these last few days, haven’t we?”

Ilvriss smiled a bit. He stood very tall, not showing the effects of drinking. Tasilt on the other hand—well, he wore his drinks and some of his excesses.

Then again, he was the more cheerful of the two Drakes. Ilvriss had long considered that, and the fact that Tasilt, for all he’d never seemed to grow up like Ilvriss had, was still quite successful as a Wall Lord himself. And beloved; if Ilvriss was the model Drake in both bearing and appearance, a symbol of Salazsar’s elite, Tasilt was quite fondly regarded despite being a failure in those regards.

Now Ilvriss’ old friend was sighing. He still didn’t take the vial and instead straightened his clothing.

“No help for it. I’ll take a stamina potion, don’t worry, Ilvriss. And I’ll explain myself at home. Rhelika will understand. You’ve been away for so long and she did enjoy that dinner party. Just invite us all for a private meal next week, would you? That’ll unruffle her fur and I can bring the children over.”

“Very well. Give her my greetings.”

“Naturally! And er, I’ll convey your regrets for the late hour. Completely unavoidable. Old friends need to catch up.”

“Of course.”

Ilvriss kept his face straight as Tasilt checked his breath. The Drake was still drunk, though. Ilvriss coughed.

“If a hangover potion isn’t enough, I can have someone fetch a sobering…”

Tasilt caught him with a claw, grinning toothily.

“No, no, let me enjoy this, Ilvriss. Or the wine will have been sacrificed for nothing! I’ll be fine. This is why handrails were invented. Rhelika won’t mind.”

“And the [Merchants]?”

Tasilt just laughed.

“Simple! I’ll provide them with suitable refreshments! That’s the trick of it, Ilvriss. Don’t rise; bring them down to your level! You’d be surprised at how many upper-class [Merchants] have forgotten how to barter while drunk! Just give me a second. Ah, what a sight, eh?”

Ilvriss nodded. He could feel the cold breeze on his scales, but the heat rising from the balcony’s tiles made the experience bracing, pleasant. And Salazsar by dawn was beautiful. The light caught the towers one by one, illuminating millennia of craft, wrought stone. Carved gems angled to split the light cast colorful reflections.

Salazsar was a jewel. And Ilvriss loved it as much as the first day he’d seen it from above. He glanced to one side and saw Tasilt’s eyes shining. Different they may be, but they were still sons of Salazsar.

And Tasilt? Ilvriss paused another moment, regarding his old friend. He was unlike Brilm, who was always on the cutting edge of the latest ‘thing’. And if Brilm was a traditionalist, even painfully so when it came to how he employed Gnolls, Tasilt was his opposite.

Everything the Drake did was new. Experimental. Three quarters of his enterprises tended to fail, but the remaining quarter made up for his failures. Everything from trying to use water to blast holes in mines to how he had married.

He was the only Wall Lord—or Lady—in forty six years to have married a non-Drake. And only one of eight in as many centuries. By now, it had been…what, seventeen years? Ilvriss felt it was only yesterday that Tasilt had been rowing with his friends and father about the very idea of marrying his Gnoll wife, Rhelika. And Ilvriss remembered vividly the way he’d acted back then.

It was the only time Tasilt had ever hit Ilvriss. Now of course, that day was over a decade past and Ilvriss and Tasilt were old friends who’d gotten back together for a night of relaxation after his long absence.

Ilvriss thought more of moments like that these days. And he looked at Tasilt differently. Of course, he’d never been Brilm, who still held Tasilt at a reserve, but Ilvriss had always regarded Tasilt’s decision as…odd. Now, though? Ilvriss wondered how difficult it had been for Rhelika. And he had never considered that before. Not once. But if it was difficult for a…Human, living just outside a Drake city. If a Goblin could be an adventurer—

Ilvriss shook his head. He looked at everything differently than when he’d left, come to that. It felt like the world hadn’t changed. But he had. And it was an uncomfortable feeling. Things that had mattered in the past didn’t now. While other things mattered more.

After a moment, the Drake cleared his throat. Ilvriss’ purples scales stood out next to Tasilt’s fair green mixed with brown.

“How are the children, Tasilt? I didn’t have the opportunity to ask.”

The other Wall Lord looked up, deeply surprised. He paused, and Ilvriss noticed Tasilt’s eyes flicking to his face for a moment. Tasilt visibly sobered a bit and replied, smiling a bit and staring over the balcony.

“What, the twins? Just grand. You’d never know they were different species. Both of them run about on all fours. Cecilla’s normal—she’s in her hoarding phase. We’re working with her on that. Not a problem there.”

“Ah, of course. And…is it Feldir?”

“It is.”

Tasilt heaved a sigh. He glanced at Ilvriss again, and then leaned over the balcony. And this time his voice was lower. Genuine concern flickered through his eyes.

“He’s unruly—you know? Won’t listen, always disappearing—and I have to watch that he doesn’t take anything from home! You know, the other day I found out he’d taken a Potion of Greater Invisibility out of our family vaults?”

“Really? And he used it?”

Ilvriss looked greatly concerned. Wall Lords had their inheritances of old. Some had squandered it of course, but Tasilt and Ilvriss’ families both possessed some treasures, even if the majority of it was just the wealth they owned. Tasilt was the one with legitimate heirlooms in his family, and that potion was one of them. Tasilt nodded.

“Just like that! I had to tell the guards not to let him in! And the damn potion. You know how he used it? Well, let’s just say Tielma was not happy about where she found her daughter, her daughter’s friends, Feldir, and half a dozen of his mates. I can’t imagine how it must have been. Obviously she saw nothing, but the sounds…”

He shuddered. Ilvriss stared at him and then he laughed. Tasilt stared at him. His lips quirked, and his tail swayed on the warm stone tiles.

“Don’t laugh! It was a disaster!”

“I’m sorry. But that really is a story that would only come from you, Tasilt.”

Ilvriss chuckled, shaking his head. He looked at his old friend.

“By all means, bring over your family next week, Tasilt. I’ll send the invitation. I should like to meet Feldir and the others. He sounds like a spitting image of you at your age.”

The other Wall Lord blinked. Then he grinned ruefully.

“Ancestors, I hope not! Otherwise he’ll be…”

He paused and then suddenly frowned.

“Damn it. He has been asking for more money. If he’s at those…I’d better send a Runner down to The Scarlet Tail and inquire tactfully…no, better if I go myself. Dead gods. I can’t have grandchildren running around yet! Well, Ancestors. I have to run. Ilvriss, this was a pleasure.”

He turned and held out a claw. Ilvriss took it, smiling.

“I quite enjoyed it, Tasilt. And we must talk later.”

“Oh, I’ll look forwards to it.”

Tasilt smiled, genuinely pleased. Then he adjusted his clothes a final time, walked out of the balcony and down the walkway across Salazar. Ilvriss watched him go. Then he turned and went inside.

The private sitting room wasn’t too messy. Not as if, say, Tasilt’s rebellious Gnoll son, Feldir and his friends had been drinking late here. It was mainly just empty cups and bottles. Ilvriss walked around them and sat in a chair by the fireplace. He rubbed at his temples. Now he was feeling tired. He’d need a stamina potion to function today as well. Absently, Ilvriss reached for something to drink and came up with a nearly empty bottle of fine wine. He stared at it, and then, carefully, put the bottle down.

“Salisa.”

Ilvriss left the sitting room and found one of his family’s staff waiting for him in the hall. The old Drake looked expectantly at him.

“I’m in need of some water. And a stamina potion.”

“I’ll have it to you at once, Wall Lord.”

Salisa nodded. The Wall Lord nodded and retired to the study. After a minute, a Drake returned with some water and a shot of a strong stamina potion in a glass. He took both and let them begin cleaning the room. The water and potion cleared his mind and Ilvriss sat back.

He felt guilty about drinking. But it had served its purpose and now he was back to non-alcoholic beverages again, just like in Liscor after…

Lost in thought, Ilvriss glanced up and saw Saliss returning. He looked up and she nodded towards the door. She wasn’t a servant, was she? But what else could you call her? She’d been employed by his family just like her father and mother for generations. But she wasn’t a ‘servant’. But that was just splitting hairs.

He hated thinking like this. But he couldn’t stop it. Ilvriss stood up and Saliss paused. She didn’t bow or curtsy or whatever Human servants did, but the rest of it was the same.

“Wall Lord. Wardmistress Geyasa awaits you in the dawn study.”

“I’ll see her at once. Thank you, Salisa.”

Ilvriss nodded. And then he strode towards the study facing the northeast. It was already illuminated by the rising sun, and Ilvriss saw that the waiting [Mage] was well attended to. She rose from a small meal and dabbed at her mouth.

“Wall Lord Ilvriss. Thank you for making time for me. I hope I’m not intruding?”

“Not at all, Wardmistress Geyasa. I just saw the last of my guests off today. May I ask how your work has gone?”

The Drake inclined her head.

“My team and I have swept your mansion and your properties, Wall Lord. We did uncover a few minor spells, but nothing of note. Nothing in your estate—your wards held.”

Ilvriss sighed, affecting relief. Internally he was skeptical, but the Drake standing in front of him was one of the best in all of Izril at her job. He nodded.

“Thank you for your understanding, Wardmistress, as well as the need for discretion and haste.”

The [Wardmistress] bowed her head slightly.

“Of course, Wall Lord. Rest assured, my team was thorough. Your friend’s impetuousness has thankfully not cost the security of your estate as far as we can discern. Nevertheless, we have updated all the wards and installed a more powerful enchantment at your request. Even an Archmage of Wistram would have great difficulty cracking these wards, and the enchantments I have installed will alert me the moment they are broken.”

She looked somewhat disapproving. Not at Ilvriss, but at his friend, the one who had been behind the drastic need for her arrival to begin with. She glanced at Ilvriss.

“Do you by any chance still have the offending object, Wall Lord? I could attempt to trace who placed the spying spell, or my colleagues at Fissival could undertake the task.”

Ilvriss smiled ruefully.

“I regret to say I disposed of it as soon as I was aware that it was at fault. Rest assured, I’ve informed Wall Lord Brilm of his mistake. It will not happen again.”

“Only prudent, Wall Lord.”

Wardmistress Geyasa nodded understandingly. Ilvriss felt a pang of guilt as she flashed a glare out of his study window, as if trying to find the culprit.

My apologies, Brilm.

His friend’s indiscretions were well known. No one who heard the tale would doubt that Brilm had inadvertently brought an object enchanted with some spying spell into Ilvriss’ home after being duped. And if Brilm himself heard the tale, he might well believe it himself. It had happened before. Thinking of that, Ilvriss went to his bag of holding and pulled out an apple-sized object and held it out to Geyasa.

“Would you check this bauble? A recording spell on quartz unless I miss my guess. Simple, but I would like to be certain.”

“It would be no issue. One moment.”

The Drake took the quartz sound recording and turned it over. Ilvriss waited, and she nodded after half a minute.

“It seems perfectly fine. The complexity of the sound contained within is somewhat above average, but for a conversation in numerous parts or music, I would expect it to be. Will there be anything else?”

“Nothing. You have my sincerest gratitude.”

Ilvriss nodded and Geyasa bowed.

“Our pleasure, Wall Lord. On behalf of Fissival’s Scholarium, we thank you for choosing our institution above all others.”

She smiled a bit smugly. Ilvriss smiled too, nodded, and forbade mentioning that she was the second [Mage] he’d hired to inspect his home.

“Only naturally. Drakes must work with other Drakes. Please tender my regards to Fissival’s Three when you return. May I offer you an escort…?”

“I will politely decline, Wall Lord. If you would be so good, though? My team’s equipment is somewhat cumbersome and affects our bags of holding as well as teleportation…”

“I will have it returned to Fissival at all haste.”

Ilvriss reassured the [Mage]. She nodded and excused herself. He made a note to send a gratuity fee; she had travelled through the night and it must have been a chore to transport the magical objects via wagon and not the customary methods.

Geyasa was of the nearest Walled City to Salazsar, the City of Magic, Fissival. It was known for its [Mage] presence, and the academy that had once rivaled Wistram in power. The City of Magic possessed its own unique traits as well, among them, well, teleportation.

There had been a reason why Ilvriss hadn’t been dying to get his hands on Erin Solstice’s door. It was valuable, but hardly unique. The world over, [Mages] could teleport small objects long-distance. It was larger objects across increasingly distant spans that posed the real problem. But some magical artifacts and technologies still existed.

Fissival’s teleportation network exceeded the magical door in Erin’s inn by several magnitudes. And yet, it was incredibly limited at the same time. They could move a thousand ton’s worth of goods in a day if need be, and regularly did between the cities linked to Fissival.

On the other hand, no one dared use the grid for transporting people anymore. There had been…incidents. And one in forty thousand deliveries went astray. Sometimes in a minor or amusing way. Sometimes never to be seen again. There was a reason only cheap, expendable goods were ever risked these days.

The past glories weighed on Ilvriss whenever he walked the towers of Salazar and saw what had passed before. And when he strode through his own home. He stood in the dawn study when Geyasa had left. It was only then that he realized she hadn’t finished the meal she’d been brought. Absently, he left the study and told Salisa it was there.

“Inquire if Wardmistress Geyasa or her team require refreshments before they leave. I will be in my personal study.”

It was a mark of how rich Ilvriss was that he had a personal study, as well as multiple other ones in case he wanted a change of pace. He retired to his room and sat in the chair, its rich fabric worn from years of use. But the wood was still beautiful. And there the Wall Lord reached into his pocket and pulled out the piece of quartz. The contained music. And he put it on the desk and tapped it once.

There was music. Ilvriss listened to a young woman singing. The first song made him frown. But he listened to it. There wasn’t an option to skip. The second song made him pause. Ilvriss listened, frowning. Because the music struck him more than the first time he had heard it. This time, he focused on one part of the song and realized something.

“That instrument. What is it?”

He had never heard a piano before. And he had no idea what it was. But then, the third song contained on the crystal began to play. And Ilvriss settled back, listening to it.

The music was by the ‘Queen of Pop’, the Singer of Terandria. The rising sensation of the continent, apparently. Ilvriss wasn’t sure who she was, but Brilm had bought a number of these…recordings of her music. And he had gifted one to Ilvriss after realizing how fond the Wall Lord was of this particular song.

Now Ilvriss listened. It was a song he’d played countless times already. He understood the author was…what was the name, again? Definitely Human. Ah, yes.

Frank Sinatra. And the song was called ‘My Way’. Ilvriss, listening to it, was sure at last of one thing. It was no song that had ever been made in this era. Perhaps in one long past, now rediscovered. Or…

Part of Ilvriss just wanted to listen. But hearing it again, he couldn’t help but wonder. That was the thing. Ilvriss was a Wall Lord. He had been educated in swordplay, tactics, knowledge of economy, warfare—a hundred different aspects of life. And one of those things he had picked up was music.

He understood music, even if certain styles didn’t appeal to him. And the composition of the music, the style, it was all unique in a way that shook him.

The song could not exist, in a way. That wasn’t how music worked. Yes, a culture could produce something like this. But Ilvriss would expect to see experimental pieces that began the process of understanding the medium before such a polished piece appeared. But this was finished. Perfect.

The young woman’s voice that echoed in his sitting room understood the song she was covering. She understood the emotion. It was impossible that he, let alone Tasilt, had not heard this kind of music before.

So where had it come from? Not Terandria’s halls. And not any other continent Ilvriss could name. A magical experimenter, a [Songwriter] or [Singer] of surpassing talent? This Sinatra…but no.

Ilvriss thought of Erin Solstice. And he felt certain there was a connection. But it slipped away from him. Some…leap of logic that Ilvriss couldn’t make.

He didn’t have wings. It didn’t matter. The Drake leaned back and listened. He still had time before he had to work. And the music flowed on. Ilvriss listened, in the privacy of his room. And when the music was done, he tapped the crystal again and it replayed the music obligingly. A song he didn’t care for, one he didn’t mind. And the song that spoke to him.

The fourth time he was playing the music, the door opened. Ilvriss sat up, opening his mouth furiously. But then he saw who was slowly walking in and sat back. And the old Drake, his scales grey, his steps slow, walked forwards. As if the music had summoned him. He looked around, and then focused on the music crystal. And when the music had stopped, he looked at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord stood up.

“Father. Is something wrong?”

Wall Lord Zail looked at his son for a moment. And then he saw the chair that Ilvriss was placing in front of his desk. Zail sat down slowly.

“No. No. Ilvriss. I was wondering—what was that song?”

“Music, father. From Terandria.”

“Really? It’s changed a lot since when I was younger. Better. Not all those flutes and…better.”

Zail sat back, murmuring to himself. He was very old. Drakes didn’t live past seventy or eighty years on average. Well, most who lived or battled monsters died far earlier. But most Drakes wouldn’t reach past those years. Still, with magic, one could live far longer. As long as a hundred and twenty years. Ilvriss had heard of Drakes reaching a hundred and forty, albeit by consuming numerous potions and using artifacts. But his father was simply eighty three. And tired. He sat in the chair, looking aimless. Blank.

“Father. Is something wrong? Have you lost something? Salisa can help you find it. Are you hungry?”

“I’m not hungry. I’m bored. There’s nothing for me to do. That damn Gnoll is managing everything and since I retired, there’s nothing to…do. Just read, pay social calls—and visit my son. When he returns from his jaunts abroad.”

The old Drake snapped back. Ilvriss sighed. So it was a social call. Zail must have slipped his attendants. They were probably worried, but an old Drake still kept all his levels and Skills.

It wasn’t too hard for his father to manage either. His quarters were right above Ilvriss’. The peak of the tower, as they always had been. Now he looked, well, confused.

“Where did you go this time? There was a mess with the Trisstal Alliance. Was that it? Someone mentioned…a Goblin?”

He looked worried for a moment. Ilvriss delicately avoided the subject.

“My duties take me far from home, father. I was in Liscor among other places. I visited Pallass—”

“Whatever brought you there?”

Zail looked affronted. Ilvriss sighed again. But he explained.

“It was unavoidable. I had to return by way of Liscor.”

“Oh. Its summer, isn’t it?”

“Yes. It is.”

Zail nodded a few times. He looked at Ilvriss and paused.

“There’s little for me to do these days. Boredom is worse than taking a lightning bolt to the chest. Your mother, now, she keeps herself busy. I should have done that. Never should have quit managing the mines. They’re in good shape?“

“Yes, father. As well as they ever have been. Would you like to see the reports…?”

Better than they ever had, actually. Zail shook his head. He looked at Ilvriss. And then he was lost again.

“Ilvriss?”

“Yes?”

His son waited. He could see the scar on Zail’s chest, past his loose robes where he had been struck by lightning. And—a slight indentation along the Drake’s scull. The scales were almost gone there. Wall Lord Zail had sacrificed much for the city he loved. At last, Zail looked around.

“I came to ask you something. What was it? My…my tower. Is it finished?”

Ilvriss exhaled slowly.

“Yes. A decade past—”

He caught himself. Nodded slowly.

“Yes, father. Would you like to see it?”

The old Drake nodded. Slowly, he got up. Ilvriss escorted him out of the study. Back to the room he had spoken to Geyasa in. He waved away Salisa and the anxious Drakes who hurried towards him. Zail caught his breath as he stepped towards the window. He looked at the newest tower, one that Gemscale funds had helped build. Ilvriss watched, his eyes on Zail’s face. Once, the Drake had been taller. A towering presence. Zail murmured softly.

“Oh. Oh, it is beautiful. When I die, my ashes should be scattered from the tower. That’s the way of it, you know.”

“I know.”

Zail paused. Then he turned his head. Ilvriss was expecting him to ask for his promise again. But the old Drake frowned. His eyes focused on Ilvriss’ hand.

“I heard you gave your ring away. You did. Who are you marrying?”

Ilvriss jumped. Reflexively, he covered his claw, but Zail had seen its absence. The old Drake straightened, looking more awake suddenly.

“I do hear about it. The ring’s gone. So. Who is it? Some Gnoll? That’s what my people tell me. Or a Human? Some…Pallass? Dullahan? Garuda? Tell me if it’s going to happen. I might as well know now.”

“None of those! I’m not marrying, father!”

Ilvriss snapped. This was the last thing he’d expected his father to pester him about! His sister, perhaps! But those damn rumors—it didn’t help that he’d spread this one himself! He growled.

“It’s not a sign of marriage. You know that.”

“I know exactly what that ring means. I gave it to you. Trust. Who do you trust enough to give that ring away?”

Wall Lord Zail snapped back. Ilvriss sighed. He felt the ring’s absence. But he didn’t need it. And he had…he paused.

“I gave it to someone who did me a great service. Who…is unique. In her own way. Who may need it more than I. It was a gesture of respect.”

“Aha! Her?”

“Father! It’s none of your concern.”

Ilvriss glared at the old Drake. Zail walked around him. He looked at Ilvriss, looking him up and down as he had a thousand times before.

“They say you left your duty to play in a border city for months. Or that you lost your head. Chased someone and lost your ring. Tell me that’s not true.”

“It’s not true.”

Ilvriss held his gaze. Zail’s eyes narrowed.

“So you didn’t flee the Goblin Lord out of cowardice? You haven’t lost your way? General Shivertail died. You were there. Where were you?”

“I didn’t think he would die. I thought he would live.”

Ilvriss gritted his teeth. Zail shook his head.

“I don’t believe you. Tell me. Say it. Swear it.”

He twisted a ring. Truth spell. Ilvriss gritted his teeth. He was angry. Zail could rally that emotion in him. The two Drakes stalked each other in a slow circle, tails lashing the carpet. Ilvriss’ voice was low.

“I am a Lord of the Wall and a son of Salazsar. The walls of my city be my oath; my loyalty has never wavered! For Salazsar, I would bleed every drop of my blood dry! The walls stand!”

The stone glowed blue. Zail saw its light. Slowly, he relaxed. His voice echoed Ilvriss’, a shout.

“The walls stand! Forevermore.”

Then it was done. He slowly relaxed and looked around. He noticed the platter and wandered over to it.

“Breakfast. Hm. Looks good. Proper meat, not what they feed me up there. Damn [Healers] and their prescribed nonsense.”

He began plucking bits of meat off the tray. Ilvriss sighed. Wall Lord Zail loved testing him.

“Father. The [Healers] recommend their diet for your health.”

“Hah! They want me to live forever.”

“Yes. And?”

Zail glanced back at his son and shook his head. He chewed as Ilvriss rubbed at his temples. He was going to be late for his meeting. He was looking at the door when Zail spoke up.

“Ilvriss. When will you bring a wife worthy of our line? There must be one, in all the cities.”

Ilvriss froze. He turned, his hand on the door to the study. And he wavered. But the truth stone was still shining on Zail’s claw. So he turned. And his back was straight. He looked past Zail, at the rising sun.

“There was, father. But I couldn’t even bury her.”

Wall Lord Zail stopped chewing. His head rose. He looked back at Ilvriss. And his expression changed.

“Did you avenge her?”

“Not yet.”

Ilvriss strode out of the room. He nodded to Salisa, waved away the apologies of Zail’s minders.

“Get me Captain Shieldscale.”

He strode towards his personal study, leaving his father behind. The sound stone went into Ilvriss’ bag of holding. He had work to do.



—-



“Captain Asrira Shieldscale reporting, Wall Lord Ilvriss!”

The Drake with bright, almost unnaturally blue scales stopped in the center of Ilvriss’ study and saluted. The Wall Lord glanced up from the piece of paper he was writing on.

“Salisa, we’re not to be disturbed. Even by my father.”

“Yes, Wall Lord.”

The Drake [Housekeeper] nodded and shut the door. Ilvriss stood up.

“Lock it, Captain Shieldscale. Magical lock on the top.”

The Drake did so. She was an Oldblood Drake, a True Oldblood. That meant she could fly and spit acid. She locked the door, turning the key in the lock. And then the second key in the glowing lock. She heard a faint buzz of sound, just below the level of hearing.

“We’re secure, sir.”

“Good. Take a seat, Captain Blackwing.”

The Drake turned. And Asrira Shieldscale was suddenly Osthia Blackwing, [Captain] in service to Pallass’ army. Niece of the late Thrissiam Blackwing, famed [General] of Pallass. She had yellow scales underneath the dye Ilvriss had provided her. And she had been captive of the Goblin Lord, Reiss, before escaping during the hour of his death. She sat down in the chair and Wall Lord Ilvriss sat opposite her.

“I trust you’ve acclimated to Salazsar, Captain Osthia?”

“Yes, Wall Lord. It’s been exceedingly pleasant. I have nothing to want for here. I’m equally gratified for the lodgings in your personal estate.”

Osthia replied awkwardly. She was still in awe of Ilvriss. He was a Wall Lord, the nobility of the Drakes! Normally he’d command an army or huge division and she’d be far below his rank. But circumstances had thrown them together. For one thing, he and she both knew one thing that put them both in danger.

Az’kerash, the Necromancer, was alive. Osthia had seen him take over his minion, the Goblin Lord, Reiss. Ilvriss had learned from Zel Shivertail and Ryoka Griffin that Az’kerash was alive. The Necromancer had killed his soldiers, including his love, Periss, during a battle thanks to the inadvertent interference of Ryoka Griffin.

Ilvriss had found Osthia as she escaped the Goblin Lord, caught her before she could warn the Walled Cities. He had persuaded her to stay silent, to adopt a disguise and return with him to Salazsar. Osthia still wasn’t sure if she should have refused and spread word Az’kerash was alive. But here she was.

“It’s the least I can do. You are being awarded the lesser guest quarters, as befits my bodyguard. If it’s uncomfortable in any way…”

“Not at all, Wall Lord. The staff and Miss Salisa are exceedingly polite. But with respect, that isn’t a high concern of mine. The…”

Osthia glanced towards the doors. Ilvriss waved a claw.

“We’re clear. The wards have been reinforced and checked. Twice. Speak freely.”

Osthia nodded and relaxed.

“The Necromancer is my only worry, Wall Lord. I could sleep on rocks so long as it meant doing something. With respect, I’d like to know your plan of action. It’s been weeks.”

“It has. And I appreciate your forbearance, Captain Blackwing. But as I stated, I had to be sure. I’ve completed my deception as well as I can. As far as the city knows, I’ve finally returned home and embraced my former lifestyle. Banquets, socialization—and so forth. In that time, I’ve also ensured my home is not under any surveillance, physical or otherwise. That includes you.”

The [Captain] nodded, appreciatively. She’d been terrified to even say the word ‘necromancer’ lest Az’kerash catch on that she was alive. Ilvriss hadn’t even used her real name until this moment.

“We’re secure, then. But what is the plan, sir? Alert the ruling bodies of the Walled Cities? Rally an army and march on the Necromancer?”

Osthia was practically vibrating with the desire for vengeance. She remembered the Necromancer’s voice, the moment before he had conjured an army of undead to slay her uncle’s army to the last Drake and Gnoll. All but for her. She would personally lead the charge on his lair, even if it meant her death.

But Wall Lord Ilvriss just shook his head. He sat back in his chair and tapped his claws together.

“I’ve given the matter much thought, Captain Blackwing. And I’ve come to three conclusions. Hear me out before you reply.”

He raised one claw. Osthia sat back, listening. He was a Wall Lord, but she’d had poor [Commanders]. What had convinced her to listen was the fact that Ilvriss had a reputation for sharpness, even if he had been traditionally opposed to Pallass back when they’d both been part of their Walled Cities.

“Firstly, I am certain of this: Az’kerash, the Necromancer, the foe who brought war to Liscor and sent his armies ravaging south of Izril. That monster who plagued us during the Second Antinium War until he was brought death by Zel Shivertail. Is. Alive.”

Osthia nodded and clenched her claws into fists. There was no doubting it. He had made a puppet of the Goblin Lord, Reiss. He had turned a Goblin into a Goblin Lord as an experiment. She shuddered. Ilvriss went on.

“The second thing I know is this. He is as great a threat in his own way as the Antinium.”

This time, Osthia blinked.

“Sir?”

Ilvriss stood up and walked over to a set of books in a shelf at the far side of the room. Few people could own a library, but Ilvriss had that, and extra copies for his study. He plucked a book from the shelves and tossed it at Osthia. She caught it and read the title: The Antinium Wars (Pt. 2), by Krsysl Wordsmith. She didn’t open it; it was standard reading in the academy. Ilvriss nodded at it.

“If one reads the history of Az’kerash only as it pertains to his end during the Second Antinium War, he was a lesser force. Between the Antinium and the Goblins, his presence was most keenly felt around Liscor. While his undead hordes did strike into the heart of Izril, they were but one of the plagues that assailed us. By that standard, he might be seen as weak. However, the opposite is true.”

Another book. This one—Necromancy, Its Rise and Fall, by Sir Hilten, [Autumn Knight] of the Order of Seasons. She hadn’t read it. Ilvriss went on.

“The history Drakes aren’t taught is Az’kerash’s legacy before he fell. Once, he was an Archmage of Terandria, a contemporary of Archmage Zelkyr, even. After he was deemed a monster and hunted, he turned on his homeland. For over a century he plagued Terandria and despite the best efforts of the [Knights], kingdoms, and other forces present on the continent, he escaped them every time. One could argue that he in fact won each conflict because no matter how many times his undead minions were slain and he was forced to flee, he himself was always alive, and came back stronger after biding his time.”

“I see.”

Osthia had found some books on Az’kerash, but she resolved to read this one as soon as possible. Ilvriss nodded and sat back down.

“So, my conclusion. Where the Antinium and even Goblins had their King and Goblin Lords, and the Antinium their Prognugators and Hives, Az’kerash is a force of one. And in that sense, he is most certainly far above the level of most beings on this planet. He may be the highest-level threat to Izril at this moment. And a handful of people know that he still lives.”

Osthia felt a chill. She got what Ilvriss was saying at. They had no idea about Az’kerash’s levels. In fact, he might have leveled up since the Second Antinium Wars. No—he surely had.

He’d killed Zel Shivertail, the same Drake who’d killed him during the first war. Who would stop him now? Osthia? Ilvriss? The Wall Lord saw Osthia’s pale face and nodded.

“We could stop him. But it would take an army. And the third thing I know is that Az’kerash is not alone. He has minions. Thinking, capable beings that can use magic to disguise themselves and walk among us. Worse still, there are traitors within Drake ranks. Highly-placed traitors at that.”

That was even more chilling than Ilvriss’ last statement. Osthia looked up, her claws sweaty.

“You’re sure?”

Ilvriss nodded darkly. He reached for the papers on the desk and pulled a file out. It wasn’t large, but it was…Osthia blinked. A report on a Named Adventurer? She read as Ilvriss talked.

“Regrika Blackpaw. A Named Adventurer who was a minion of Az’kerash. I fought her and her escort. I did not witness…what…she was, but I put together the clues afterwards. Zel Shivertail informed me that she was sent after the runner, Ryoka Griffin, to silence her after she met the Necromancer.”

“I can’t believe it.”

Osthia stared at the hand-drawn illustration of the Gnoll. She glanced up.

“Was it an undead?”

“That, or some other puppet. The very fact she was able to use that cover means someone falsified documents certifying her rank, created the illusion of her accomplishments or at the very least, her origin. It may be a Guildmaster of the Adventurer’s Guild aided the Necromancer. Or someone of higher rank.”

Ilvriss drummed his claws on the table. He went on. He had another piece of paper, a list. He was so…organized. And the fact that he could find the information? Terrifying. The Wall Lord pointed down at the next list. Names. Dates. Levels.

“In many cities that Regrika visited, high-profile Drakes met with accidents, before or after their visit. [Mages]. Retired adventurers. [Scholars]. More. How many Drakes have been killed and their deaths disguised as accidents by his minions? How many of them are there? How many traitors does he command?”

Osthia could only shake her head. This was far deeper than she’d thought. Now she understood why Ilvriss had held her back.

“So we might be sabotaged by our own ranks? By fellow Drakes? It’s unbelievable. But if—Wall Lord, if we assail him, we’ll see who they are, surely. If we reveal Az’kerash lives, we can assail him; no one would deny that!”

Ilvriss was just shaking his head.

“I considered that, Captain. But I believe that it would be too dangerous to risk.”

“How?”

Ilvriss sighed. He placed two lists of names in front of Osthia. One was short. It held her name, his, and a handful of others. All of them were Ilvriss’ personal staff, the ones that had accompanied him back from Liscor. Ilvriss tapped it with one claw.

“This is a list of people I regard as trustworthy beyond doubt. They alone are not puppets of Az’kerash, willingly or unwillingly. I hope to add to it from this list.”

The second list had names Osthia knew. Big names. Like the Dragonspeaker of Manus, Luciva Skybreath. Ilvriss nodded.

“This is a list of people I wish to alert by any means necessary if we can be sure they are true. I would have their aid in defeating the Necromancer because they possess some means of opposing him. But until I am sure, sure that they are not under the Necromancer’s control or one of his puppets in disguise, I will treat all of the names on this list as possible enemies that might turn on us if the Necromancer’s hand is forced.”

“But you don’t have anyone on the first list. Not even your fellow Wall Lords? Your family?”

Osthia was shocked. Ilvriss just looked at her.

“I do not trust my father, Captain Blackwing. There is no one I can be certain of. No one besides you, Zel Shivertail, and the young woman named Ryoka Griffin. And by now she may be compromised herself. I don’t believe you understand just how dangerous Az’kerash is.”

“I saw him wipe out an army—”

The Oldblood Drake protested hotly. Ilvriss held up a claw.

“I am not talking about his military abilities. I am talking about his ability to make puppets out of corpses as real as if they were alive. He has done so in the past. In Terandria, a [General] might be leading an army against Az’kerash only to make disastrous move after move. He would lose the battle, damning his troops and then return back in disgrace. And then lead a second army again and fail. And then, as he stood before his [King] in disgrace, reveal himself as an undead and assassinate the ruler and everyone else in the room.”

Osthia paled. Ilvriss went on.

“That has happened twice. In another case, the Necromancer replaced a sitting monarch and her family with puppets. And he manipulated one of his puppets into ousting the fake [Queen] as undead simply to continue the ruse. If we go to war, we may find our allies committing blunders, sabotaging our ranks. We cannot allow that.”

Ilvriss stood up and paced back and forth, restlessly.

“Az’kerash is a difficult enemy to face openly. We have no idea what his grand plan is. We may extrapolate, but the Necromancer’s motives—besides the obvious—are unknown to us. We know where he is vaguely, but we cannot move on him without alerting him that we are aware of him. We cannot alert the Drake cities without risking the same. And if it comes to war, we may well lose even without interference by traitors.”

Osthia gulped.

“You mean…the Antinium?”

Ilvriss nodded.

“The Antinium are the second threat. The Humans, third. If it were just Az’kerash, I would call on the Walled Cities to eradicate him and his plague once and for all. But should we try it with the Antinium at our backs, we might fight a war on two fronts, or even three if those damned Humans decide to take advantage of the situation. And we nearly lost a war against the Antinium the first time. No. We do not take that risk.”

“Then what can we do? We need to fight the [Necromancer] covertly? Or—no, create a force that can ambush him, take him by surprise. That’s what must be done. But who? Who can be trusted?”

The Oldblood [Captain] felt sick. How could they be certain their ranks wouldn’t be infiltrated? The task was daunting. Too much! But she saw Ilvriss smile grimly.

“Captain Blackwing. You have a Lord of the Wall on your side. I am not without my means. I’ve merely educated you on the reality of the issue as I see it. Now, here are some of my solutions.”

He returned to the desk and pulled out an object. Osthia stared at it. It was a hand mirror, inlaid with pearl and silver. Ilvriss regarded it and shook his head.

“During the investigation of a murder of a Gnoll in Liscor, Regrika Blackpaw was asked, under truth spell, whether she had committed the murder. Somehow, she fooled the spell.”

He waved the mirror at Osthia.

“This is a dreadfully gauche Mirror of True Seeing. See how many pearls are inlaid in..? Never mind. [True Seeing] is a Tier 6 spell capable of seeing through all but Tier 8 magics, and even they begin to fail in its presence. Az’kerash may be able to fool its power, but if he can, he should have been able to break Liscor in half rather than waste time assailing its walls. He is a [Necromancer]; he is not specialized in magics outside of his field. So we can regard this mirror as accurate.”

He held it up and Osthia saw it flash as he lifted a claw. Any number of complex auras were surrounding the magical rings on his fingers and she saw he was wearing an amulet or something in his clothing. His sword was enchanted too—by contrast, Osthia only had a faint aura about her. Ilvriss nodded.

The next item he pulled out he regarded with almost as much distaste. Osthia recognized it as similar to a crown, only lacking the rigid structure in parts.

“This is a Diadem of Inner Thoughts. Note the hanging jewels? It is the precursor to modern truth stones. They only reflect duplicity. Each stone on this diadem reflects a different state of mind.”

“Inner Thoughts? But what’s the point of wearing something that reveals how you yourself are thinking?”

Osthia was confused. Ilvriss looked a bit embarrassed.

“In times past, it was considered to be an essential tool of monarchs. Such that nobility wore it as well; to prove their actions were beyond repute. That fad went about as well as one might expect. Now, this is how we will test people. Put it on and hold the mirror up.”

He held out the diadem to Osthia. She dutifully put it on and saw the jewels lighting up. She couldn’t see all of them, but then she picked up the mirror and saw the enchantment around the diadem. And herself.

“That aura. Is it…?”

“Ah. That represents your natural aura. It seems legitimate. Oldblood Drakes have more magic about them. But the real test is if a spell activates when you try to lie, as well as the diadem’s reaction. Captain Osthia. Please state that you are not under the Necromancer’s control or working for him or anyone else in any way.”

Bemused, Osthia turned her head.

“Anyone else? But—”

She heard the sound of metal rasping in its sheath. She twisted—and held very still as a bitingly cold blade’s edge lay against the side of her neck. Ilvriss stared at her, quite calmly.

“Say it.”

Osthia did. Ilvriss waited, stared at the diadem, and lowered his sword.

“Good.”

“You were serious about that. What if I’d been an agent of someone else?”

Osthia felt at the cold cut along her neck. Ilvriss shrugged fractionally as he sheathed his blade.

“I told you. I trust no one.”

The [Captain] thought about this. Then she offered the diadem and mirror to Ilvriss.

“Well then. Your turn.”

He blinked. But then he put on the diadem and raised the mirror. Osthia walked around him so she could see it and see the gems glow as he replied. They were the same colors, more or less, that had glowed when she’d spoken.

Both she and Ilvriss relaxed. They’d been sure, but the test made both feel better. Ilvriss went back to sitting down at the table. Osthia picked up the mirror and played with it.

“So, what’s the next step? Test everyone in your employ, and then the city? One by one?”

Ilvriss looked amused.

“If it were that easy…tell me, what do you think would happen if we discovered they were the Necromancer’s allies?”

“Kill them? Or interrogate them, keep them captive I suppose.”

Osthia didn’t blink. Ilvriss raised one brow.

“And then? What would Az’kerash do? When his minion failed to report in or suffered an ‘accident’?”

“Ah. Then what’s our next move? Wait…we…only test who we can.”

Osthia was getting the hang of this. Ilvriss nodded, smiling.

“And we adopt his strategy unto them. A few accidents would not rouse the Necromancer’s suspicion if it seems innocuous. Our goal is to reveal his minions and create a group we are certain of while avoiding alerting him.”

“But how can it be done?”

The complexity of the task was maddening Osthia. She was no [Infiltrator], no [Spy]! Ilvriss sighed.

“Simple. We engineer scenarios where the people we want to test are in the same room as us for reasons the Necromancer would believe are completely genuine. And there will be a reason for us to approach such people completely covertly. A reason that Az’kerash will accept as completely legitimate. This is for you. I intend to circulate it among my peers first; if there are any spies for other Walled Cities or Az’kerash, he will surely see it.”

Ilvriss passed a document to Osthia. She stared down at the neat handwriting, and his personal seal. And then she understood. She looked up and Ilvriss smiled at her. The Wall Lord tapped the copy in front of him.

“This is the secret force you and I are going to begin building, Captain Blackwing. I’m appointing you as its head. We’ll be securing allies, making deals with other Walled Cities—it will require travel, secrecy, and diplomacy. It may incur danger of its own. And any number of Drakes and Gnolls are going to learn of its existence. And it’s purpose will be…”

Osthia read from the page.

“A private army designed to destroy the Antinium. High-level [Soldiers], magical artifacts on par with a Gold-rank adventurer’s gear or better. Special forces from every Walled City…”

She looked up and inhaled. Ilvriss sat back.

“Exactly. This is how we fool Az’kerash, Captain Blackwing. A plan within a plan. Both are needed. The Antinium are a threat. Az’kerash is a threat. This way, we create a group capable of fighting both. People in my position, who are capable of fighting, leading, or financing actions as needed. High-level individuals. An elite strike force.”

“The same tactics that General Sserys used to fight the Antinium during the first Antinium War.”

“Undead are similar to Antinium. And an individual like Az’kerash will slaughter regular [Soldiers]. What do you think? If you have any objections, Captain Blackwing, I would like you to voice them now.”

Ilvriss waited. Osthia mulled over the document. Her wings fluttered and her breath was tinged with a hint of acrid acid. She looked up and her eyes were burning.

“I’m in. Where do I start?”

The Wall Lord bared his teeth.

“Firstly, I will put this proposition forwards within the week. Carefully. I’ll start with close friends. Gather support. In the meantime, I want you to headhunt Salaszar’s standing forces. I also have a list of individuals you and I are going to approach. But before that? We may be the targets of covert action ourselves. Other factions may see this as me grabbing power. Forming an army. Which I am, of course. So you will be my [Bodyguard] in fiction as well as reality. To that end…let’s pay a visit to my personal armory. I will need to acquire more artifacts, but right now I can equip you at something better than the average Gold-rank standard.”

Osthia inhaled sharply and got up. She was still daunted by the task ahead, but she felt better when she saw the racks of gleaming weapons. And the armor. And magical rings…she walked past them. Ilvriss sighed.

“Not one heirloom-class weapon like the Heartflame Breastplate. We’ll need to acquire that before the final assault. But I have a modest arsenal.”

“Beyond modest, Wall Lord! Do you have a spear with anything anti-magic? Naq-Alrama steel, maybe?”

Osthia looked up hopefully. Ilvriss pursed his lips.

“I could only but wish. I have an Adamantine-tipped spear enchanted with a [Piercing] spell. Will that do?”

“I think so.”



—-



Ilvriss left Osthia to pick out as much gear as she wanted from his armory. He had no fear of her overloading the magical enchantments and causing a reaction; she knew to check for how much magical interference she was generating. But she would be as well-equipped as, well, he was.

The Wall Lord didn’t know Osthia’s complete capabilities, but he estimated that a [Captain] wearing magical items was around the rank of a Gold-rank adventurer. Decent, in short. She’d be a capable [Bodyguard] at least, and Ilvriss would find the best warriors to oppose the Necromancer.

Oh, the very best. Ilvriss returned to his study. He sat down in the familiar chair and leaned back. The first thing he’d do was reach out to one of the names on his list of potential recruits. Pallass had a named Adventurer, and Ilvriss had considered adding Saliss of Lights to his list, but the Drake was, by all accounts, extremely difficult to work with and Ilvriss had no need for anyone who couldn’t be trusted.

Besides, that was Pallass and he was their sole Named Adventurer. One, for an entire Walled City. Salazsar, in its wealth and opulence, had two. Two Named Adventurers, one an individual, one a Named team, which was more than Manus could boast of; there was little work in the City of War for adventurers. And that was different from the the transient groups that came in and out of Zeres’ ports with regularity.

The lone Named Adventurer would join Ilvriss. That wasn’t even a problem; money dictated who Shriekblade worked for. The real issue would be passing Ilvriss’ proposal among his fellow Wall Lords and Ladies. Many would oppose him forming a force to fight the Antinium. They’d see it as needlessly provocative, or even, as he’d told Osthia, a power grab.

But it had to be done. And Ilvriss would gather true allies he could tell about the Necromancer. The Drake stared at the list of names he’d come up with. So few! Even if they formed an army. It would be desperate work, keeping it all secret. Keeping up the charade.

The enormity of the task before him hit him only now. The scale of the opponent he had set himself against. Az’kerash. An immortal monster.

“No, not immortal. He’s only two hundred years old. Only. Hah!”

Ilvriss rubbed at his face, despairing.

“Two hundred years. Half-Elves can live longer. There are some beings in this world far older. Salazsar’s walls are ancient.”

But Az’kerash had been a man. That was what people forgot. He had lived in this world, not apart. Half-Elves in their villages could pass decades unchanging. But a man?

He had lived two and a half times as long as Ilvriss’ father. What level must he be? How could Ilvriss truly fight him? He’d seen how Osthia had paled, despite her own thirst for vengeance. Ilvriss couldn’t help but feel her doubt now. He’d had to reassure her. But he was…afraid.

Ilvriss was afraid of the future. The task ahead. He was tired. As tired as Zail. He thought of how, just a few weeks ago, he had sat in an inn, amid noise, crowds, the rudest Human he’d ever met. And he’d been annoyed there, or amused. Entertained. But it hadn’t been like this.

He wished he had never left that inn. But duty pulled him onwards. Duty. Vengeance. Terribly heavy things.

“A Lord of the Wall is loyal to his city unto death. He does not waver.”

But he was just a Drake. And he did not feel like a Lord of the Wall in that moment. Ilvriss bowed his head. And he sat at his desk and remembered how this had all started.

“Periss.”

He was alone.



—-



One last visitor stopped by Ilvriss’ home before he left it. And she changed where he went. Ilvriss had been intending to stop by his office, lower down, and talk to Alrric, his [Administrator]. He’d have to leave the work in Alrric’s hands, and the Gnoll would have to divert funds towards Ilvriss’ project. Alrric wouldn’t be happy, but he could be privy to the lesser secret about the Antinium task force.

However, the Drake with purple scales and long, pants and a fairly casual tunic reminiscent of Human fashion—even if it had been tailored with high-quality material—stopped Ilvriss. He blinked at her.

“Navine. I didn’t expect to see you today. To what do I owe this pleasure.”

Wall Lady Navine Gemscale pointedly glared at Ilvriss. She wasn’t smiling, nor did she seem pleased to greet her sibling. They were nearly of age, although he was the eldest by three years.

“Ilvriss. I’m not here on a social call. I heard you lost your ring.”

“Half the city knows. And I gave it away, not lost it.”

Ilvriss snapped, regretting spreading that rumor. Navine raised her brows.

“Really? You didn’t leave it on Periss’ grave?”

The Wall Lord stopped. He stared at Navine and felt a familiar headache coming on. She looked at him.

“Or was it Shivertail’s? You can’t do that, Ilvriss. Those rings need to stay with the family.”

She raised her own. He bit his tongue.

“I left it on no one’s grave.”

Her brows rose even higher.

“Really? Then you gave it to someone. Female?”

“Does it matter? It was my decision.”

He tried to step around her. Navine stepped over to block him.

“It matters because if you gave it away to some Drake, Gnoll, Human, or whomever you just met because you were trying to forget Periss, I’ll throw you off the tower myself. To stop father from doing it and straining his back. She deserved better.”

Ilvriss’ head jerked around. He stepped towards Navine and poked a claw at her chest.

“Don’t you dare insinuate that I would do that—”

“You didn’t care enough to marry her. Or keep her from getting killed! It was a skirmish between armies, Ilvriss! Who got her? Shivertail? I can’t believe he’d kill her in battle. She’d surrender! The Goblin Lord?”

“Yes. It was an accident. It has nothing—I gave the ring to someone I met. Someone worthy of trust. Not marriage.”

The Drake bristled at his sister. Navine stared at him. There was an accusatory look she always wore around him. And a familiar glower on his face. He tried to force it away.

“Mother would like to see you. I know father wanders in from time to time, but mother would like you to call instead of having to do it herself. You should visit her. You stopped by once when you came back.”

Abruptly, Navine changed the subject. Ilvriss blinked and growled, but she was right. She loved being right.

“I have to visit Alrric today—”

“Then do it after you visit mother. Business can wait.”

Navine pointed to the door. Ilvriss ground his teeth, but he followed her with bad grace.

The reason why it was harder for him to visit his mother at least, not as simple as walking upstairs—was that Helessia Gemscale lived in another tower. It saved her from constantly running into Zail, and that was for the best these days. Navine lived in the same home with her staff, and the two nobles made their way through the entrance in dire silence.

“Mother, Ilvriss has finally decided to come calling. Do you have time to see him?”

Navine called out as she pushed the door open to Helessia’s room. Ilvriss waited until Navine beckoned, and entered the room.

Helessia was sitting upright in her bed, tended to by a Gnoll [Healer]. The old Drake’s bed was a thing of magic—and that wasn’t just hyperbole. To reduce the aches on her bones, it had been fashioned of the softest materials available and could perform any number of functions. Including float. Ilvriss paused as the curtains were moved back by Navine.

“Mother.”

He nodded to the old Drake peering up at him. Not without fondness. But he was prepared for a scolding and got it.

“Ilvriss. Where is your ring?”

“He says he gave it to someone trustworthy. Female.”

Navine interjected. Ilvriss glared at her.

“I think this is a private conversation, don’t you?”

“Not at all. But go on.”

Grinding his teeth, Ilvriss leaned forwards. Helessia caught him and kissed him. And he brushed his lips against her cheek.

“You do make me worry, Ilvriss. All that time in Liscor with the Goblin Lord. And then Shivertail’s death. And the Human army. It was a wretched mess.”

“I know, Mother. But as I told you, some of it was unavoidable. But for Shivertail…the rest went as well as I could have hoped.”

His sister snorted softly behind him. Helessia gave her a warning look.

“Tell me about the ring.”

“I gave it to someone I could trust, mother. I don’t wish to say more. You know the rings aren’t crucial.”

Helessia smiled quietly. Sickness had left her thin and pale, despite the [Healer]’s best efforts, but she was still the beauty Ilvriss remembered.

“No. Not crucial. But I would have never thought you would have given it to anyone but Periss. We didn’t discuss it when you visited.”

“I would prefer not to.”

Ilvriss avoided her gaze. Helessia sighed.

“If you insist. But then, tell me what else you are up to? You’ve been enjoying yourself. But I know that look.”

“What look?”

“Ilvriss…”

The Wall Lord sighed. He didn’t want to bring this up now. But Helessia would find out through Navine if Ilvriss had his way, and it would distract her from…Periss. So he told her.

“I’m planning to create a force to oppose the Antinium. A proper organization. Arms, equipment, individuals—Named Adventurers and notable figures from all the cities—”

“What?”

Navine exclaimed. Helessia just frowned.

“Is that necessary? It’s been quiet, Ilvriss. We’ve made so many precautions.”

“I have been to Liscor, mother. They live with the Antinium. I saw Klbkch the Slayer myself. And Xrn. They are plotting something.”

It was the truth. Helessia inhaled and Ilvriss wished he hadn’t said it. He went on, choosing his words carefully, framing an argument anyone could accept.

“The force is necessary. Zel Shivertail’s death has left a hole in our ranks. It’s not enough to trust to our best individuals to rise up in times of crisis. Look at Thrissiam Blackwing, Garusa Weatherfur. Fine [Generals]. If they’d had a few more elite units supporting them, or one or two notable figures, they might have defeated the Goblin Lord themselves. We need organization. Not just against the Antinium. The Human’s aggression as well.”

“So a private army. You want to make one that can beat Humans and Antinium? That sounds like you’re preparing for an attack.”

Navine’s voice was sharp. Ilvriss looked up and glared at her.

“I’m prepared to be attacked. Unless you think the Humans weren’t prepared to take Liscor, Navine?”

“Some of them. Some of them didn’t.”

“And the ones who did are the ones I’m concerned about. I’m not here to argue with you, Navine. I’ll put it before our peers. I’m worried about the Antinium in any case.”

Ilvriss turned back to Helessia. His mother sighed.

“Schemes. Always schemes. You are your father’s son, Ilvriss. You’ve been gone back not one week. Tell me. Have you visited Periss’ grave?”

Ilvriss paused.

“I didn’t know one was made. I—we never recovered her body.”

“We held a funeral. You may find her cenotaph in the Gemscale mausoleum.”

The Wall Lord paused.

“You buried her there?”

“Privately. Yes. Do you disagree?”

“No. I…I will try to find the time to visit. But I am busy.”

The Wall Lord half-rose, distracted. Navine’s voice was bitter.

“Did you even shed a tear for her?”

“Navine!”

Helessia turned her head. Navine looked away. But both Drakes were looking at Ilvriss. If he was like his father…Ilvriss was dry-eyed now. He paused, and then straightened.

“A Wall Lord weeps not for himself, but holds the walls first. Mother, I do have to go. I will stop by later this week. Perhaps later, when Navine is happily occupied elsewhere.”

He looked pointedly at Navine. She glared at him.

“Let the damn walls crumble to dust. They’re not the most important thing in this world, Ilvriss!”

Helessia saw Ilvriss pause as he bent to give her a farewell kiss. The Wall Lord looked up. But then he slowly bent down and kissed Helessia on the cheek again and stood up.

Ilvriss slowly left the room, not bothering to reply to Navine. Half a year ago he would have stormed away furiously or confronted her. This time? He felt a bit melancholy. What would Navine have done if she’d met Erin? They would have been a better match. Worse, still. It was hard to admit she might have been right about Humans.

“Mother. You saw that too, right?”

Navine turned to Helessia after Ilvriss had left. Her mother sighed and sat up in her bed. She gestured, and the bed slowly sank downwards. Then she sat up.

“I think I will walk, Gersa.”

The Gnoll [Healer] hrmed, but then gently helped Helessia up. The Drake struggled up after a moment and Gersa found her the pillow with the rings on it. Helessia put on one ring, and then another, and straightened. Strength-enhancing rings. Navine watched her mother slowly walk past her, and Helessia’s voice was focused, sharper than her husband’s.

“I saw. He’s changed. Whether it was Periss or this mysterious person he gave the ring to, Ilvriss is much different. Find out who it was, if you can. Someone in Liscor, most likely.”

Navine grimaced.

“It’ll be hard. You know the rings are enchanted not to be noticed.”

“I know. But I want to know just what made Ilvriss change so. He was the spitting image of Zail when he left.”

“Do you think he’s actually concerned about the Antinium? Or is this about the Humans? My truth spells said he was lying about how Periss died, mother. But when he said he wasn’t as worried about the Humans, he was telling the truth. Mostly.”

Helessia paused. She shook her head.

“I don’t know. Either way, it’s still too risky to take him to the meeting in Oteslia. Let’s just hope this Magnolia Reinhart is everything they say she is.”

Navine nodded. She accompanied her mother to the dining room. Some things were secret. And there were Drakes who saw potential in an alliance with the Humans. And Drakes who did not. Even families sometimes were at odds with each other.

Ilvriss knew that. And it had been his life. The complicated web of politics, influence, working to advance his city at the cost of others. That was what he had known. It was why he had gone to war against other Drakes, fought Zel Shivertail. And now he was changed. The Wall Lord didn’t go to visit Alrric. Navine was right, damn her. There were more important things to do.

He descended. Through Salazsar’s towers, down walkways, travelling slowly, greeting people, accepting their welcomes back to the city. Down and down. Salazsar wasn’t all vertical. It had an underground component. Store houses. The ever-reaching mines.

Cemeteries, or rather, mausoleums. But Ilvriss didn’t go down that far. He stopped, a good two-thirds up the social echelons of Salazsar. And he walked a street hundreds of feet over the actual ground, past neat homes that were far smaller than his grand tower. It occurred to him he was empty-handed. But he hadn’t gone before. And if he turned back now, he wouldn’t come back.

So the Drake paused at a door like any other. Like no other. He had never been here; what a scandal. What an outrage. He wished for all of it now. He wished he’d been here with her before. But it was too late. All he knew was the location. He’d memorized it when Perris had told him.

Sometimes he forgot what her voice sounded like. Other nights he thought he could hear it. Ilvriss raised a claw, paused, and knocked softly. He waited there, ignoring the looks on the street.

After a while, a Gnoll opened the door. She stared at Ilvriss and gasped. Ilvriss bowed to her. He had expected a Gnoll. Or a Drake. But he knew there would be one of each.

“Excuse me. Miss Solicia Veldant? Mother of…Periss Veldant? I am—”

“Wall Lord Ilvriss?”

A stunned voice behind him. Ilvriss turned. A shorter Drake was standing behind him, looking dumbfounded. Ilvriss stepped to one side, looking between husband and wife.

“Mister Elkill Veldant? Miss Solicia Veldant? I hope I am not intruding. I—I have been away from Salazsar for quite some time. And on my return…I was hoping to speak to you two.”

The Gnoll looked at her husband. And then at Ilvriss.

“I see. Periss spoke of you. You were leading the army, weren’t you?”

Ilvriss bowed his head.

“I was. I—I regret that I could not bear news of her passing myself. If you would allow me, I would like to speak to you of the events that led to her…death. I am deeply sorry.”

Solicia looked at him. And Elkill cleared his throat, looking at his neighbors staring at the Wall Lord.

“Perhaps inside? Come in, Wall Lord.”

“Of course. Come in, yes?”

Solicia moved out of the doorway. Ilvriss paused as Elkill headed inside, murmuring urgently with his wife. He didn’t know if coming here had been correct. But something—maybe the thought of what a certain Human would have said, or Periss himself—had impelled him. He stared at the open door. And he recalled an old conversation.

“Did you know, Ilvriss? One of your [Lieutenants]—Periss, yes, that’s the one. Her parents are mixed. Gnoll and Drake. What? Of course it doesn’t have anything to do with how she does in the military. But you’re asking how Rhelika and I work? Ask her. She’d know…”

Tasilt.

Ilvriss entered the home. And he sat at a small, comfortable couch as he was served some tea. And then into silence he spoke. He forgot the words almost as soon as he said them. But the feeling, the moment, it lasted forever. The faces of the two parents, tearing open a wound so it might heal a bit better. Listening to a confession.

Truth about a relationship. Lies about a death. But truth about pain. About loss. Promises—offers of wealth. Meaningless words mixed in with guilt. Ilvriss didn’t know when he ran out of words. But it was Solicia’s stare, the way Elkill leaned against her that made him just sit there. Waiting.

And all Elkill did in the end was put down his cup, untouched. He looked at his wife. And then at Ilvriss. And he looked at a painting on the far wall. And Ilvriss turned his head and saw her.

“She was special, wasn’t she?”

The quiet question shook Ilvriss. It cracked something. And he bowed his head.

Wall Lords wept not for themselves. So a Drake sat and shed the tears the Wall Lord could not. He wept. But he was not alone in his grief. For a while, Ilvriss put aside the vengeance in his chest. That could come later. He just sat there and remembered who he had loved. The way she laughed.

He missed her.





6.51 A


“Well, I’m off! I’ll be back tonight or tomorrow! Send help if you hear explosions or something.”

Erin waved as she left her inn with Teliv. Lyonette let Mrsha wave her off, and then the door closed. The [Princess] looked around.

Suddenly, the inn was quiet. Almost deserted. Some Gnolls and Drakes were having breakfast, quietly, but the population of the inn was now less than two dozen, counting the staff. The [Princess] sighed; Erin was the heart and excitement of the inn. But sometimes her absence could be a good thing.

Ishkr and the two Gnolls on staff looked up as Lyonette clapped her hands. The other guests glanced up, expecting something interesting. But all Lyonette did was point towards a broom.

“Alright, everyone! Erin’s gone! You know what that means! We can finally get some cleaning and other work done. Let’s sweep and polish the floors. Everyone having breakfast—you have thirty minutes to finish!”

There were a few good natured groans, but no one bemoaned the time limit. Ishkr began moving unused chairs to one side of the very big, moderately dirty room. Well, it wasn’t filthy, but there were specks. Scuffs. The kind of thing a proper inn didn’t need. Lyonette was counting brooms.

“Sweep first. Then we’ll do a wash and scrubbing. I have a soap-mix that Octavia made up for me. It’s apparently pretty strong! Mrsha, don’t bother Ishkr. He’s working!”

Mrsha looked up, betrayed, as she tried to push a table that Ishkr was dragging towards the wall. She was helping! But Lyonette put her hands on her hips.

“I’m sure Ishkr appreciates the help, but you’ll get your paw run over. Why don’t you get your ball? We can play with it when the second shift comes in. Or, I can see if Selys has time…”

Mrsha shook her head. Sulkily, she crept off. Lyonette sighed, but she started moving furniture too. The little Gnoll needed a proper diversion each day, she reflected. Work, or a tutor. She had had a [Tutor]. Could she arrange one for Mrsha?

“If Erin doesn’t get taxed again, maybe. Or maybe Selys will sponsor Mrsha. Does Liscor have tutors?”

“Mostly apprenticeships.”

Ishkr shrugged as Lyonette looked at him. The [Princess] pursed her lips. She kept thinking as she rounded tables, filling last breakfast orders and collecting money. Numbtongue had vanished, maybe into the mountains to do some mining.

And in the inn, Mrsha crept around, looking for something interesting. She’d found rats, once. And usually there were fun people to play with. Like Moore. Or Ceria. Or Yvlon, or Bevussa, or…but they were all gone. Liscor’s new Council had made everyone happily busy—elsewhere. And as a result Mrsha was bored.

But there was one person who remained. And while he wasn’t Mrsha’s first target, he and she had an enduring relationship of sorts. Now, Mrsha slunk along, using her [Natural Concealment] Skill. She could see his white robes as he sat at the table, reading. And she could smell his plate. There were some eggs left. So Mrsha waited, biding her time, and then, with a herculean leap, jumped on the table, swiped—

And missed. Pisces flicked his finger at the plate and it soared over Mrsha’s head. The [Necromancer] glanced up and smirked. Mrsha narrowed her eyes and leapt again. The plate soared slowly over her head. She missed the table and went splat on the floor.

“Mrsha, stop bothering Pisces!”

Lyonette had seen it all. The Gnoll cub ran over to her, holding one of her wrists and making a faint whining sound. The [Princess] stroked her head mostly unsympathetically.

“You know better than to try that. And look what it got you! No, you don’t need a healing potion. You didn’t land hard. Don’t be dramatic, young miss. If you want to help, you can help me move chairs.”

Mrsha tearfully looked up at Lyonette. She signed with her paws, overplaying her injury in the right one. Mean! Mean and hard work! Lyonette frowned.

“Mrsha…”

The little squabble was ignored by the [Necromancer] as his plate slowly levitated downwards. Pisces lifted a hand and a fork flew into it. He chewed the mostly cold eggs as his eyes flicked across the pages. He was engrossed in his task, so much so that he only looked up when he heard a cough.

“Pisces. We’re cleaning the inn.”

“Hmm? Ah.”

Pisces glanced up. At some point, the inn had emptied. All the tables and chairs were moved against the wall. Mrsha was playing with her ball as Ishkr and the Gnolls swept the inn. Pisces’ table and chair were the last to be moved. He looked down at his empty plate and rose with a sigh.

“I see. I do apologize, Miss Lyonette. I will remove myself to my room, then.”

“Thank you.”

Lyonette watched him step up the stairs, still absent-mindedly reading. She looked down at his plate and sighed. He wasn’t really annoying. Or rather, she’d heard how much worse he could be from Erin. In fact, there were a lot harder people to manage. Erin included. She took the plate, bussed it to the kitchen, and got to work.

The inn’s remaining occupants kept cleaning. Pisces went upstairs. And no one, not Lyonette, or Mrsha, thought to ask what he did as he entered his room and shut the door. Because they understood Pisces, or at least, they thought they did. But what they understood was the exterior. And the [Necromancer], for all his foibles, made a fairly easy picture to grasp at a distance.

But perhaps if someone were to ask Ceria, or Ksmvr, or Yvlon, they might stop. And upon reflection, they would realize a truth. They didn’t know Pisces as completely as they thought. He had secrets. No one even knew his last name. No one knew which nation he had hailed from, or his past before Wistram. How many people could truly say they knew Pisces (Lastname)?

Perhaps no one. So, as Pisces closed the door to his room he murmured a spell.

“[Muffle]. [Sealed Space].”

On the walls, six ash-drawn runes started glowing. The spell made Pisces’ ears feel full for a moment as silence enveloped the room. It was now safe, at least, in a crude way, from magical spying. The [Necromancer] looked around. Erin would probably have been unhappy to see the magical sigils he’d drawn on the walls, but she’d probably be more aghast at the room itself.

It was actually clean. Disconcertingly organized, compared to how unkempt Pisces himself usually was. Pisces’ belongings were lined up on the dresser, the floor swept so neatly that even Lyonette wouldn’t have found flaw with it; only the bed was a mess of tangled sheets. But that was to a reason.

An undead rat’s skeleton lay unmoving on Pisces’ dresser, the only thing anyone would have found untoward. Pieces stared at it for a moment as he came in, but he ignored it after another moment. The [Necromancer] regarded his room, and then sighed. He put his spellbook down on a table, a bit annoyed, and massaged his forehead.

“Magical theory. Why are necromantic texts so, so…childish? Each one is written as if it is the cardinal basis of all magic. Yes, by all means, pontificate on why your knit-bone structure is superior to all other designs over the last ten thousand years, sir. Would it be so difficult to include a diagram?”

Grumpily, he waved a hand. A second spellbook rose up from the table. It looked identical to the first; a ragged blue cover worn by age and dirt. And that was an effect that Pisces had had to work on for two days straight. Otherwise it would be very difficult to explain why he now had a new spellbook in addition to his personal one and the basic spellbook Ryoka had brought back.

Even if it wasn’t immediately obvious, Ceria and Yvlon could count. And Ksmvr would knowing the Antinium.

Pisces studied the two spellbooks in front of him with identical covers. One was personal, his collection of spells and notes that dated back from his residency at Wistram. Pisces caressed this one, the one he was holding, lovingly. He sighed as he looked into it.

“I must acquire a new book as soon as that door reaches Invrisil. Pallass’ markets are not catered to spellcraft. On the other hand, if Erin were to somehow forge a route to Fissival—how likely is it?”

He paused, and stared up at the ceiling.

“A thirty percent chance she somehow engineers her door to tap into Fissival’s network. Either way, generalist spells would be appropriate. As for this…”

He flicked his gaze back to the book he’d been reading. Pisces sat down at his desk and began to scribble in his personal spellbook, translating his lesson from the previous book. Normally he’d annotate in the other book, but it was on loan, and Pisces didn’t want to make a poor impression.

“Then again, it is an astounding obstinate text. I would rather take lessons from Rievan again than decipher the actual important information from this one.”

Pisces grumbled. He began to sketch a new design into his spellbook, frowning as he glanced at the necromancy tome. If he was reading this right…

“A Bone Behemoth.”

He frowned, and scribbled, working on the basic image. It would be twice, no, three times as large as his Warbear Bone Horror. And imposing, to say the least! A true monster that would render any group of low-level opponents meaningless. The kind of creation that could slaughter even Raskghar without fear of being brought down easily.

The young [Necromancer] frowned as he eyed his new design. It still looked like his old one, just scaled up. Unoriginal, and frankly, less than imposing, at least to his eyes. Oh, he admitted that if you were face to face with the gaping maw and the crushing limbs, it would pose a physical threat, but good design should convey aesthetic horror. Almost artistically so.

“Well, construction is first.”

The [Necromancer] sighed. He flicked his hand. And from his belt, the bag of holding, bones began to fly out, assembling behind him in neat rows.

Femur, humerus, tibia—metatarsals and teeth, bone powder and tiny fragments. Yellowed bone, and white ivory, bleached from time or Pisces’ own efforts. It was like a set of children’s building blocks, only made of death and horror. But the piles were neat and tidy, and when Pisces turned, it only took a wave of his hand to begin moving them on the clean floor into place.

“According to this, the ah, foundation is…to form the spell lattice capable of that much weight and animation, I need to shape the spell like so…? No.”

Pisces frowned. The bones were soaring into place, slowly moving, rotating, forming longer segments, creating the very image he’d drawn in his sketchbook.

But slowly. Not only did Pisces have to stop and make sure a tooth fit with another tooth here, or grind down a section of bone to create a perfect fit here, he was working on another level. For the physical form was only half of the creation he was trying to make. The Bone Behemoth wouldn’t even fit in his room when completed, obviously, but even if Pisces assembled the shell, animating it was…

“Tricky. Complex.”

The [Necromancer] had to admit that after a few minutes. He stared at a huge foot he’d assembled, akin to a dinosaur’s bones, if he had known what a dinosaur was. He thought of it as a Dragon’s leg, or perhaps a Cyclops’ sturdy bones, only crouched, angled for something that would walk on all fours. Bipeds were trickier than quadrupeds. Forget tripeds.

It was already done; assembling was easy. But making it move? Pisces frowned, and tried to form a lattice of magic. In concept it was simple. The leg moved so. Necromancy could give bone a range of movement, like sinew. In fact, Pisces’ magic would replace muscle, tendon, and ligament, giving skeletons the invisible framework by which to move. But giving the spell the strength to move the massive leg was—

Tricky. Pisces frowned as the leg moved a bit, haltingly. The bone wasn’t even that heavy! Not compared to a full flesh-and-blood body. But—it wasn’t easy. Pisces was used to animating regular skeletons with smaller bones. The largest bone in the Human body, the femur, was, what, sixteen times smaller than the bone of this behemoth? At least!

If Pisces compared it to sewing, it was like trying to weave with anchor chains when you were used to thread and needle.

It was difficult. Aggravating. Pisces began to sweat, and then to curse. He tried reconfiguring the bone leg, assembling more parts of the Behemoth in his room. He went back to the necromancy tome and read for a bit, massaging his temples.

“Anchor the lattice…well, obviously around the center of gravity! How do you provide enough power to move bone that heavy? No, not another lesson mixed in with anecdotes of your ‘accomplishments’ every five sentences!”

He hurled the spellbook across the room and dragged his fingers through his hair. Pisces stared at the spellbook, and then flicked a hand. It flew back towards him and he settled back on the desk, reading vexed. He wasn’t like Ceria, who had only recently begun her training again. But sometimes, Pisces envied her.

Ceria was talented. She was a half-Elf, naturally attuned to magic. She had a spellbook with a number of spells he would have loved to study if he could have spared the time from his necromancy studies. And she had learned from a master.

“Illphres.”

Pisces said the word bitterly. And he remembered. A broken body rising, lifeless eyes burning with undead light. Of his regrets, and he had many, that one still stung. He wondered sometimes if Ceria had forgiven him for that. Better still though. She had seen her master’s corpse in undeath.

But she had not seen how Illphres had died. Her or the other [Mages] who had gone to challenge Zelkyr’s last test. Pisces was still haunted by that memory, too. He paused and shook his head.

But she had had a master, however briefly. Someone who could perfect her fundamentals, show her a path. A path to true magic, even if it was only as far as Illphres had gotten. She had probably been on par with a Named Adventurer. The highest of Gold-ranks at least!

By contrast, Pisces was alone. All of his accomplishments were from feeling his way blindly forwards, extrapolation using spellbooks. But theory was far from experience. And not just that; [Necromancers] were reviled almost the world over. Pisces couldn’t even find good examples of living practitioners, hear legends of what had been done, except as tales of woe. He envied Ceria her certainty.

“And yet.”

The [Necromancer] paused. He looked up, his hair disheveled, at the Bone Behemoth. With one hand, he collapsed the beginnings of the skull, reassembled the bones. He studied a skeleton.

Just…a skeleton, built in the Human frame. But modified. There was something wrong with its chest. A spiral-like design leading to a black opening. Over-long arms and legs. It made the creation uneasy to look at, but Pisces smiled. He began animating it, watching the arms and legs flex, perfecting another design he was working on.

He enjoyed this. This was elegant. Sophisticated! Not like the brute power of the Bone Behemoth. But—he sighed—that was the point. Sometimes one needed a hammer, and his team was fundamentally weak in that area. Grimalkin had pointed it out and in lieu of better spells—Pisces glanced around.

“Where are those scrolls he gave me? I should commit to learning [Acid Orb] tonight. Fourteen more hours of study should do it. Memorizing the formulation of acid is…”

He shook his head. Magic was not for people who couldn’t handle memorization or slow progress. Then again. He snorted.

“The [Sorcerer] can cast any spell he or she wishes. All they must do is design it—inefficiently. One envies the simplicity of their existence. Whereas I on the other hand have limited time to study! Especially if I must work around the Bloodfields. Well, perhaps six hours of study today. Around lunch. Ceria and the others may be back by dinner. Hm. Lyonette mentioned Erin had come up with a new food.”

He smacked his lips absently. Life wasn’t so bad now, was it? No, it was not. Hot, good food, a comfortable bed, and all the privacy he could wish for, if not always the respect. Erin Solstice had given him that. And he felt…well, indebted.

“A fascinating young woman. Truly fascinating. I only wish…”

But then Pisces paused. Carefully. And he looked around his room. It was a reflex now. And ordinarily, it only reassured him, reminded him what not to say.

Except for this time. Pisces’ gaze wandered the room. His messy bed, the unfinished Behemoth parts, bone fragments, ready to be assembled, his dresser, the undead rat sitting atop it with glowing green eyes, his money pouch, the very mild scent potion Octavia had sold him, three cookies he’d smuggled from the kitchen—

Pisces jerked and stared at the rat. It regarded him, the sunken sockets of its skeletal corpse glowing a lurid green. It was standing on its haunches, an unnatural posture. And it was looking right at Pisces.

He stared at it. The rat stared back. And something lurked behind the green glow. Another intelligence, flickering past the oblivion in the magical light in those undead eyes. Pisces’ pulse sped up. He wavered, waited. And then he swept into a courtly bow. There was no mockery in it.

Because the undead rat was not his creation. And as Pisces’ head rose, the tiny mouth opened. And a deeper voice, a…Human voice, echoed from it.

“Young Necromancer. It has been some time since we have last spoken.”

Pisces looked up. He smiled, or tried to. But he stared at the rat, with awe, trepidation—and a hint of incongruity. It was still a rat. But the presence that lay beyond it?

He had no master. No one who had shaped his beginnings. And he still had not. Not in truth. But this was as close as he could get. Perhaps closer than he wanted. Pisces lowered his head and adopted a respectful tone that Erin, Ceria—few people in this world knew he was even capable of.

“I am overjoyed to speak with you, Archmage. And I humbly thank you for the tome. It has been most instructive.”

The rat’s head turned, moving independently of the rest of the body to look around the room.

“So it would seem. Let us converse a moment, young Necromancer. Have you mastered the designs I have taught you…two months prior?”

Pisces bowed his head again.

“I have, Archmage. And I respectfully wish to speak with you about what I have learned. Ah—Archmage…”

He searched for another title. One of the speaker’s many appellations of the past, perhaps. But they escaped Pisces’ nimble mind, for once. There was no help for it. He looked at the rat. At the speaker beyond.

“Archmage Chandler?”

It was the wrong thing to say. The rat’s eyes flashed. Pisces felt the ire and his skin crawled. The voice spoke slowly.

“That name is old. Archmage Chandler was a man from a different era. Over a century dead. Address me as you will. But do so by the name they have given me.”

Pisces licked his lips.

“As you wish. Archmage Az’kerash.”

It would be an understatement to say that he had a few secrets no one knew about.



—-



They called him Az’kerash. It was a Gnoll name, a title given out of hatred. Az’kerash. Slayer of Kerash. So that they might never forget what he had done. But most people in the world who knew the name lost the context. Az’kerash was just…Az’kerash. A monster needed a name as grand as it was. So the name stuck.

Once, he had been called Perril Chandler. And that fact was important too, even if few remembered it. Do not forget that he was once Human. Once a man. Even if he sometimes forgot.

He had other names, too. Titles. Archmage Chandler. Lord Chandler, Duke Chandler, Sir Chandler—all born out of estates awarded to him. And he had kept the name, Chandler, that marked him as common-born, despite the attempts to change it, to guard his own reputation, perhaps. That was a fact of a different time, completely at odds with the image of Az’kerash the world held now.

Who still remembered the Gravewarden of Therras? The Undying Shield of Calanfer? Those titles were ash, and the current rulers—if those kingdoms yet existed—would deny any recollection of such names. But they had existed. Once, a lifetime ago and a flicker of time in the scheme of the world, he had been known as an honorary Knight of the Autumn. A friend of the Order of Seasons, a paragon of the now-defunct Order of Felgeist.

No, too few. Perhaps a Dragon, a few [Historians]. Some of the nobility or monarchs well-versed in Terandrian history, or just his. An Archmage. Little more. Even a lot of the [Necromancers] who styled themselves as his second coming, a successor to his name didn’t recall who he had been.

And some days he forgot. He was only known by one name, now. A name cried for over a century in hatred. Az’kerash. The Necromancer. His legacy was most strongly felt in Terandria and Izril, where he had brought death and horror.

Terandria most of all; Az’kerash was still a household name. Not to terrify children to sleep; few slept with the thought of him stalking their dreams. Or if they did, bedwetting inevitably followed. No, he was just a legend. A tale of why necromancy was evil. Of a monster that forgot how generations earlier had loved the man.

But enough. Say enough of the past. He spoke of it not at all these days. Az’kerash was thought dead to the world. That he lived was a matter that concerned so precious few. And it wasn’t even…life. Not in the way most understood it.

He did not sleep anymore. He had no need of it. And he sometimes did not move. He stood in his workroom, in a castle built of black stone where light was unwelcome, to the west of the Bloodfields, hidden in a deep forest nestled against the High Passes.

There was no map of this place in detail. It was an uncolonized area. The one Gnoll tribe that had lived here had been slain a year ago. Few would wish to anyways, so close to the perilous mountains. It had only been a place of note for a few days that same last year, when two Drake armies had clashed after a long retreat by one. And then a Goblin Lord had sprung from this area, leading an army north. But after that, the forest had lain silent.

If you wished to find him, the journey was long. Difficult. The nearest village was nearly a hundred miles distant. The wilderness bleak, monsters sometimes roaming. And the forest enchanted. It was a maze of illusions, that you might cross through, or never know you had been walking by the castle as you passed through it.

If, somehow, you were to navigate it, you would emerge in a cleared space. In a bubble of silence, a place where even on the brightest spring day, the sky seemed greyer. The soil depleted. And the expanse in front of the castle was hardly empty.

There they slept. An army of the undead. Giants made of bone, undead, fresh and fallow with age. Waiting. Inside, they stood in silent rows against the walls, hung from the ceilings, crowded the dungeons. Skeletons, wearing armor. Decaying bodies.

Inwards and inwards. Towards the study. Past old libraries filled with books preserved by magic. Unused areas for dining or leisure, now dusty and empty. Into the few rooms that shone.

But the light was black. It ate at sunlight, provided an uneasy luminescence. There were three rooms that Az’kerash occupied.

The first was his work room. A vast space, given over to a few bookshelves of powerful tomes. An elaborate magical circle in the center. Preserved designs, flasks of liquid or potions stored in glass cabinets. A vast ceiling, to hold whatever might be created in the air.

The second were his personal chambers. No bed was present, but more tools. Books, of the nonmagical kind. Art, hung with a connoisseur’s eye against the walls. A few mementos. And more than a few trophies.

The last room was simplest. A war room. Complete with maps, a circle meant for teleportation. Scrying devices, orbs, mirrors, and a collection of the most immediate magical items the Necromancer might use. Those were the three places he frequented. He might never leave any of the three rooms in a year. He could spend months in any one room.

Working. Az’kerash did not sleep, as mentioned. Nor did he take breaks. Here he stood, manipulating flesh and bone above him. A whale’s form slowly expanded, the gargantuan creature slowly disassembling into its parts above his head.

It was what Pisces had done—on a far grander scale. Fat separated from tissue, tendon moved, wriggling. And then it came together, reforming into a different shape. Organs shifting from their intended function. Magic moving biology. A hundred, a thousand different aspects were changing at once, too many for a normal mind to keep track of.

It taxed even Az’kerash at times. But he could and did work like this for uninterrupted stretches. Sometimes, he would talk, giving orders to the undead, or speaking into a scrying orb, or controlling something from afar. He would be working on a new creation, experimenting with a spell, while at the same time holding a conversation and moving his undead all at the same time.

It was a state that made the Necromancer absent, his attention sometimes distracted from reality. When he stretched himself, he sometimes forgot the basics, like the oddity of a young woman bursting into his chambers out of nowhere. He would be fully able to deal with her as a threat, and even be able to hold a conversation, but basic ideas like ‘how had she gotten here?’ or ‘maybe it was a bad idea to let her run off’ or even ‘perhaps a tip was in order’ escaped him.

That was, until he refocused. Sometimes, Az’kerash stopped. He would cease working on a dozen projects at once and concentrate on one issue, like, say, City Runners who had somehow infiltrated his sanctum. And then he was suddenly, intensely focused. For a while. But Az’kerash could be absentminded. Neglectful, even, of things that didn’t interest him in the moment.

If his many former apprentices had lived, they could have attested to that fact. As it was, a few could still remember who Az’kerash had been in life. Some had known him. Some had learned. All were old.

Archmage Feor could have told many stories. Az’kerash, or Peril Chandler, or Archmage Chandler could have told even more about an uppity half-Elf student. But neither were inclined to reminisce about that particular time.

So here he was. Az’kerash stared up at the whale’s form as it reformed. He ignored the fatty tissue, focused only on bone and sinew. He had more bones he was wedging into the new creation, reinforcing the structure. Sinew moved around it, simplifying the process of animating the creature; all-bone creations required more magic than flesh undead. And Az’kerash was a master. He frowned.

This new monstrosity would have sunk in the water. It would also have died; it lacked necessary organs like, oh, lungs, and a heart. After a moment, Az’kerash gave it both. Sometimes those organs helped. Even so, this whale-monstrosity would have encountered problems in life. It would have been an unparalleled killer; the teeth certainly helped with that. But digestion? Excretion? Basic mating? Problematic.

And it still didn’t satisfy him. Az’kerash paused. He moved his leg for the first time in two months. Shifted his weight. He didn’t pace around the creation; he just rotated it in the air. Frowned at its undercarriage.

“Hm.”

It was a dissatisfied sound. Az’kerash stared at the undead creation and wove a quick spell of animation. It sunk into the tendons, the entire body, custom-made, instantly replicable. That wasn’t hard for him. In the air, the whale-horror came to life. It snapped its mouth, lunged, moving the sinew and muscle in one arc. Az’kerash stared at it, doing a simulation of the creature fighting, perhaps in sea or on land. Then he shook his head.

“No.”

He waved his hand and the whale fell to pieces. The pieces of its body flew apart, landing in circles inscribed with [Preservation] spells. Az’kerash sighed slowly.

Two months. Two months of reconfiguring his latest design. It wasn’t easy. Recreating an entire muscular system could be taxing. And he still wasn’t happy with his new design. So Az’kerash, the Necromancer, stopped his work on the whale project. He raised one hand, flicked a finger.

[Lesser Teleport]. One moment he was standing in the work room, the next, in his study. An undead woman jumped and looked around before trying to shuffle towards the door. Az’kerash paid no attention. The Necromancer walked over to a chair, his muscles moving stiffly in his body. He tapped his chest absently; the flesh revitalized, his gait quickened.

Sitting, then. Not because he needed to, but because he wasn’t a savage. Az’kerash leaned back and his mind, spread, running in parallel, refocused. [Parallel Thoughts] deactivated. He looked straight ahead, focused on the world. And like that, realized he’d overlooked something.

“Bea. What are you doing?”

He turned his head. Bea, one of Az’kerash’s Chosen, an undead made uniquely to serve his will, froze, and guiltily tried to hide what she was holding behind her back. As he turned his head, she guiltily gave up. Her putrefied lips moved. She was a creature of rot and plague. A female corpse, her features not decomposing, but terribly, terribly…ill. To touch her was poison. She spoke in a beautiful voice, a woman’s haunting tones. And like a child.

“Reading, master.”

“Why are you in my study?”

Az’kerash looked at her. He wasn’t angry. Just patient. His fingers moved, and a scrying mirror floated over towards him. Bea hesitated.

“Because I had nothing to do? And Oom is gone. I am sorry, master.”

“Ah.”

Az’kerash paused. He looked at Bea. It was the first time he had thought of Oom, one of his creations, an Acid Slime that had perished in battle with Zel Shivertail. He looked at Bea. The Necromancer read her body posture, the tone of her voice. But it wasn’t the right moment. Part of him was still focused on work. So his voice was flat. Without emotion.

“I see. Read, then. Until I have instructions for you. Replace the books later.”

“Yes, master. Thank you.”

Bea smiled, relieved. Az’kerash’ expression never changed, but Bea was used to his ways. She retreated. The Necromancer was still processing. His mind was playing catch-up to all the events that had occurred, all the things he might need to focus on now.

“Bea.”

The plague zombie halted.

“Master?”

“Where are the others? Reading?”

“No, master. Venitra is…training. Smashing undead. Kerash was reading, but I think he went to sleep. In the ground. I haven’t seen Ijvani for…a while?”

“Hm. And Oom?”

Az’kerash’s thoughts made his eyes flicker. Bea’s face twisted.

“Ah. Of course. That is all.”

She hesitated, and then left. The Necromancer turned his head back ahead of him. He frowned, and his mind began reorganizing. Remember that Oom was dead. It wasn’t a priority fact for him. Now…

“Mister Veldamnt! Dead gods, we haven’t seen you in months, sir! Come in, step forwards—please allow us a small check of your items. [Detect Magic], as usual. ”

“Sir Salin. Always a pleasure. Please step this way. Would you care for refreshments?”

“Hexilt? Allow me to check my list of names, sir. One moment…aha. Will you be wishing to visit the slave auctions today or view our latest line of artifacts?”

A scrying mirror hovered in front of Az’kerash along with another mirror and an orb. He’d selected them at whim; he could have done three orbs, or three mirrors, or any number of the artifacts he needed.

In each, the figures, a Human man, overweight, wearing a smile as he clapped hands with a fellow [Merchant], a Drake dressed in the latest fashion, and a Naga slithering down a white marble floor, trailing a bit of sand from outside were all moving. Conversing. Az’kerash watched the Human drinking an offered shot of liquid, choose a proper response based on the feedback the man’s taste buds gave him.

“Blight me, but what a taste! Plum and alcohol—not my style!”

He began coughing, and the other [Merchant] swatted him on the back. Sir Salin, the Drake, stepped into a booth and rattled off a list of drinks and appetizers as he put a monocle on one eye. The Naga—

And here Az’kerash stopped. He focused on the Naga’s perspective via the orb, saw through the Naga’s eyes as he passed by a row of people on auction. The route he was being taken through the auction house—no, wait, she—the Naga was female—had passed by the auctions, despite her declining the offer to see the auctions.

In that moment, Az’kerash processed on a few levels. He was moving the other two, the Human and Drake he was possessing, keeping them breathing, affecting normal mannerisms and holding a conversation, as well as moving the Naga. He was noting the way the [Auctioneer] had taken him by the display to tempt him—the Naga—on purpose. And the final thought he had was—

“Disgusting.”

The Naga said nothing, merely slithered by the slaves with such blatant disinterest that the [Auctioneer] kept moving straight to the artifacts and producing a small catalogue for the Naga to browse. In his chambers, however, Az’kerash spared an emotion and an expression for what he saw.

Perhaps it seemed hypocritical, or it would have if anyone was in a position to judge the Necromancer. But Az’kerash himself only lingered on the thought for a moment. But he was sinking back into the world, and his posture was changing. He ceased to become a statue of a man. He leaned forwards, his posture still straight.

He wore robes blacker than midnight, and his skin was paler than the whitest of paper, bare of color for lack of sunlight. His hair was white, his features precise. But his eyes were black. And white pupils stared out at the world of the living. For all that, he was now flicking his eyes to each orb while ‘seeing’ on multiple levels.

“Artifacts. Three months. What have I missed?”

The Necromancer put the inquiry through in three different voices. He listened.

“…oh, the finest of vintages, snapped up I’m afraid. I think it was someone from Kaliv. Had that accent—a gift for their [Queen]. A damn shame—”

“Of note, Sir Salin? I can only think of a fine set of gemstones, all perfectly cut, palm-sized. As well, perhaps, a very contested Potion of Youthfulness. We were unable to test the full nature of the enchantment, but it was certified by none other than Xif of Pallass as being authentic, and it sold for about eighteen point four—”

Thousand, obviously. Az’kerash made the Naga sit up. She leaned forwards, and the Human [Auctioneer] shivered as he tried not to regard her serpentine beauty.

“Naq-Alrama steel, yes, Honored Hexilt. An entire ingot of it, sold at fierce bidding. But, I think, the cost was lowered due to the fact that it was unshaped.”

The Necromancer stared as the Naga inquired as to its whereabouts. The [Auctioneer] was hesitant, but this was a Chandrarian Bazaar, and she was wealthy. And beautiful. And it was only a name.

“Roshal, Honored Hexilt. I cannot say who, but the buyer was represented by one of theirs.”

“Ah.”

Az’kerash sighed. The Naga kept speaking, and he piloted her onwards, devoting some thoughts to her ongoing gossip, but he sat back.

“Roshal. Too difficult.”

Anyone but them, and he would have…the Necromancer frowned, and he had another emotion: regret. Bitterness.

“Naq-Alrama steel. How useful. Unforged? It must mean the smith of the Tannousin tribe is dead. If the art passes from this world, only the Dwarves…no. Perhaps they’ve forgotten too. Fascinating.”

His eyes flicked to the left. Now he was investigating the artifacts on sale with all three puppets. Weapons flashed before his eyes, potions, fine wines, artwork—from three perspectives at once, all accompanied by the blather of each seller. It would have overwhelmed, but Az’kerash was used to it. He filtered out what was unimportant, began casting spells.

“[Detect Magic]. [Eagle Eyes]. [Detect Magic]. Hm—forgery. Weaker enchantment. Poor wine? [Detect Lies]. No? [Beguiling Aroma]. [Mindhaze].”

The [Merchant] reached out and clasped another [Trader]’s hand. The female [Trader], who had been sharp as she’d presented her wares, suddenly relaxed, smiling. Then caught herself, suspected a Skill. Az’kerash smiled.

“I couldn’t spare, oh, eight hundred gold pieces for it. But seven-twenty?”

“Sir—under nine hundred gold pieces, for a vintage this fine? I remind you, this comes from Chandrarian vineyards, a perfect blend from—”

Haggling took a bit more attention, so Az’kerash lingered on that deal while the Drake took a refreshing drink of wine, much to the delight of those who expected him to become intoxicated, and the Naga ate a rodent. Alive. He settled the deal for the vintage, made a mental note to turn it around for about double the profits.

This was what the Necromancer did for fun, more or less. After all, it was hard to beat a palate that had sampled some of the world’s finest wines and beverages, even if he, Az’kerash, seldom drank. Which reminded him. Az’kerash raised his voice in his quarters.

“Bea. Do you wish anything?”

He heard a sound like a squeak. A shuffle, guilty—Az’kerash sighed.

“Venitra. Kerash. All three of you may observe. Quietly. Stop moving.”

The three Chosen did. They stood as silently as, well, the undead. Venitra, a woman carved of bone, an imposing figure that would have daunted even a Minotaur. Her body was ivory, her features sublime. Her eyes green and glowing.

Kerash stood behind her, an undead Gnoll. Closer to a Draug, but perfectly preserved, statuesque as Gnolls went, wearing ancient armor. He who might have been king. Bea next to him. The Chosen watched, and Az’kerash spared another thought, this time tinged with amusement. Bea must have ran to find them to announce he had left his work room. They were forbidden from interfering with him except in times of emergency when he was laboring over a new creation, but his private study? He had allowed them to watch. It amused him.

Where was Ij—

And then Az’kerash saw a magnificent scroll. Unopened, the latest bit of treasure from…he sighed, spoke aloud for the benefit of his audience.

“Tyfilt Dungeon. Hardly worth the effort. That era of spellcasters were largely inferior. However—”

The Drake began auctioning for the scroll, snatched from a Lizardfolk dungeon in Baleros that had made its way to Zeres’ markets by chance. Az’kerash watched as other Drakes began raising their claws, or bits of wood in the auction house.

“Tiresome. Kerash, take note.”

“Yes master?”

The voice was eager, a growl that mimicked that of Kerash the Gnoll Chieftain in life. But it was a different personality who wore his body. Az’kerash waved a hand to the mirror reflecting the Drake auction.

“Note the way the auction house is run compared to the individual goods on display in Terandria’s gathering, or the bazaar in Chandrar. Terandrian [Merchants] conduct their trading and exchange of goods in private; they prefer to sell to their clients on their own terms, establishing relationships. On the other hand, Chandrar does allow for auctions, but employs a more private relationship, where an item has a set amount of time to be outbid without knowing who you may be bidding against, if any. And a client may discreetly buy the item outright if they so desire. Privacy is emphasized in Chandrar, relationships in Terandria. But Izril?”

He shook his head.

“Spectacle. Drakes wish to be seen to outbid their competition. The display of wealth is as valuable as the acquisition, and the auction house will reap the largest monetary gain through the public bidding system. Spectacle and greed.”

Az’kerash’s tone was crisp, informative. Lecturing, even, with a dry, somewhat cynical tone. But mostly, sharply academic. And he paused, waiting for a response. Kerash was the center of jealousy from Venitra and Bea, as he solemnly delivered his reply.

“It is so, master.”

The Necromancer paused. Kerash smiled superiorly at Bea and Venitra and settled back. He was oblivious to Az’kerash’ true emotions. And indeed, Az’kerash himself didn’t linger on them much, except for a…almost subconscious desire for the reply to have been something other than blind obsequious. Perhaps, a challenge to that statement, or an in-depth reply that hinted at the listener’s own understanding of the cultural-economic realities that shaped commerce among different species.

But he didn’t expect it from his Chosen. They were his children. And like children…Az’kerash sighed. He’d won the bidding, and his Drake was smiling smugly as he accepted the scroll. His Chosen were smiling as well, luxuriating in the victory. Az’kerash’s face didn’t move. He was rich enough to win almost any auction he’d cared to, and no one had decided to outbid what he had judged the scroll to be worth.

Time passed by. It wasn’t a simple process, extricating the puppets he was controlling. They had to socialize, make goodbyes, even make mistakes, like his Human [Merchant] ogling another woman, or the Drake getting into a minor tiff over the carriages that would speed him back to his estate.

The Naga had no trouble, but it just took a while. They all had to go to their estates, homes carefully guarded by people who seemed fairly real. Bowing servants—some of them who were actually employed and actually alive—and maneuver his puppets into a place where they could safely put their acquisitions in a bag of holding. Then they would need transport, sometimes by Courier, other times by covert action. An undead skeleton could run forever, even if they were slower than a Courier, but they needed to take the right path…

“The mental upkeep on Hexilt is tiresome. She may need to incur an accident in the near future. Or find a pressing reason to voyage to Izril or Terandria. Chandrar is simply too far to maintain the spell and her mannerisms constantly. Baleros and Rhir likewise.”

Az’kerash sighed as he put the three puppets on mental autopilot. It was a testament to his abilities that he could actually keep his undead puppets behaving like, well, people while he did everything else. But it did occupy a portion of his thoughts and he had limits.

Still…Az’kerash now had more mental faculties available and he spared a thought for the Hexilt issue. He tapped his fingers together, came to a decision in a split second.

“No, an accident, I think. A…jealous lover. Who will ruin her face. Seclusion—noticeable deterioration over time. Suicide in six years.”

Done! Another little annoyance crossed off the list. Az’kerash made a mental note in his head to see it done next time he actively dealt with Hexilt.

“The sooner the better. Replicating all of her biology is difficult. As is beauty. Especially when she is naturally propositioned often. I do not care for the complexities of the task.”

He heard a shift from behind him. Az’kerash turned his head and saw Bea making a disgusted face along with Kerash. Venitra just looked confused and was bending her head to whisper. Az’kerash stared at Bea and Kerash. How had they learned what sex was? Books, perhaps. Or when he sent them out. It would be Bea who had learned of it; she had been designed for curiosity.

“Bea.”

“Yes, master?”

“Where did you learn of intercourse?”

The plague zombie hesitated. She shuffled her feet.

“Um…I saw some Drakes doing it. When I was in a village.”

“I see. It is a natural behavior. You do not need to emulate it of course, but it does not disgust the living. In fact, it is a natural reaction to beauty. If you are propositioned for it while undercover, do not immediately refuse.”

“Yes, master. But it looks pointless.”

It probably would, to the undead. They were consummate actors, able to play their role among the living when he sent them out. But they were children. Az’kerash only sighed.

Puppets. He had a number of them. Not, as one might suspect, legions. Because each one had to be managed. And Az’kerash was one person. The Necromancer, yes. But controlling hundreds, or even a hundred was far beyond him. It would be simpler if the puppets were themselves thinking beings with limited will. But that either meant creating a Revenant, not an ideal solution, or doing the impossible.

Still. Az’kerash eyed his Chosen.

“Perhaps it is time to send one of you out to fulfill a role in a society once more.”

The Chosen straightened. This was a familiar assignment. Each one of them waited. The Necromancer stood. Now more memories flickered through his mind. He frowned.

“Venitra. You will not be sent. Your ability to deceive and control yourself is lacking. You are still in disgrace.”

The bone woman shrank, the glow in her eyes dimming. Bea and Kerash smiled. Az’kerash looked at them.

“Kerash, perhaps. I may send you out to play the part of a Gnoll wanderer. The Meeting of Tribes will occur this year; I may have to sway their conclusion. Bea…”

He paused. She looked up hopefully.

“…No. You kill too easily at a touch.”

She looked visibly upset.

“I am sorry, master!”

This time her reaction provoked a response. Az’kerash looked at her. And he smiled. The smile wiped away Bea’s grief in a moment.

“You were made to do so, Bea. Your flaw is an asset.”

“Yes, master! I will remember it!”

Joy from her, envy from the other two. They were so simple. Az’kerash was fond for a moment, and then the emotion flickered away. His children. He looked around. Oom was dead, he knew that now. A pity. Bitterly, Az’kerash reflected on Zel Shivertail’s demise. It had exposed errors in his Chosen. But he had not had the…inclination to replace their numbers. And Ijvani?”

A memory surfaced. Ah, yes. Not enough Scrolls of Great Teleport. Az’kerash sighed. He had bought all of his scrolls at great cost, even given his wealth. And Ijvani was now heading back on foot. That was what his memory told him and the preoccupied Necromancer didn’t see fit to question it.

He glanced back into the scrying orb. His Drake puppet was opening the scroll. Az’kerash idly watched it open. He read the magical runes as the Drake looked at them. The Necromancer frowned.

“Hm. This scroll is one of [Searing Light]? No, perhaps—ah—”

The Chosen watched him turn. The Drake puppet dropped the scroll, dove. Too late. The scroll exploded. And the scrying orb went dark. Breathless, Kerash, Bea, and Venitra stared at Az’kerash. The Necromancer sighed.

“A trap scroll.”

“Master?”

Venitra dared to call out, afraid, perhaps of Az’kerash’s wrath, or his failure. The Necromancer paused.

“A minor setback. The Drake assured me the scroll had been tested. Well, it will require work to set up another [Merchant], but the prices of unknown scrolls will plummet in the interim. A simple error to correct. And perhaps the spell eradicated Salin’s neighbors. That would be quite acceptable.”

He waved the scrying mirrors away. The Chosen relaxed, seeing the amusement that flickered across Az’kerash’s face. But like the other emotions, he didn’t linger on them. They watched as their master dismissed the issue. Their world stabilized, and they smiled, gleeful in the accident that still worked to their master’s benefit.

Az’kerash settled back down in his chair. What else? Well, besides sending another puppet to replace Salin and arranging the scandalous and disastrous affair with Hexilt, he had a few other events to take care of. He consulted another puppet.

Information this time.



—-



Fierre the Vampire looked up at the code-knock on her door. She paused, and then got up warily to answer it. The door took twice as long to open; she wasn’t used to the new locks or the new office she was in, for that matter. Her old workplace was gone; being attacked by a hail of enchanted needles tended to put people off working with you.

But her new place was pretty good. Pretty good. The door was twice as thick, and it was enchanted. Not only that; Fierre was fairly rich, and she owned this room now. All thanks to her payout from the Order of Seasons. All Fierre needed now was for Ryoka to finally return and she’d be golden. Literally.

But work was work. When the door slid open, the nondescript man walked in and nodded to her. She recognized him and relaxed.

“Information?”

“Latest updates. World events. Three months. Give me what you have. Oh, also—best Runners in the region?”

Fierre hurried over to the desk. The man had a no-nonsense tone and he was straight to the point. She liked that. He paid for information every few months; she suspected he worked for one of the local nobility or a [Merchant] or someone with similar amounts of wealth. He probably rotated [Brokers], but it was free money for information she kept to date on.

“Let me get my files in order. All major events, right?”

“That’s right.”

“Need a copy?”

“No. Just give me a list. Oh—and tell me about any changes with the Runners.”

“Oh—”

Fierre bit one lip, then quickly hid her sharp tooth. She began shuffling information, organizing her report. The man paid well, after all, and she was delivering a quality service. More information than the other [Brokers] or [Informants] in Reizmelt, that was what Fierre wanted people to say! And as for Runners—she coughed.

“Well, I’ll get to world news. But in terms of Runners, there was a new Courier last month, and Rieve the Brisk suffered an injury while running. Leg wound; bad fracture. He may be out commission for three weeks still. However, in Reizmelt, the, ah, Wind Runner is doing quite well. Are you aware of…?”

The man nodded impatiently. Fierre hurried on.

“Well, she achieved a Courier-speed run to Walta at the behest of Lady Bethel Walchaís, and just recently was hired by the alleged [Emperor]…”

The man’s eyebrows rose as Fierre recounted Ryoka’s exploits from greatest to least, embellishing her a bit. It was the least she could do to repay Ryoka, and talking up her reputation to everyone she met could only help her friend.



—-



“Alright, enough about this Wind Runner. Who else?”

The man’s voice was impatient as Az’kerash listened to the female Vampire. The Necromancer listened with one ear, doing the same with four other [Informants]. This was easier; once this puppet was done, he’d find a secluded spot, dig into the ground, and wait until Az’kerash needed him again. Part of Az’kerash was satisfied to know Ryoka Griffin was alive.

But mildly. The Necromancer didn’t do anything as…mortal…as tapping his finger against the table, but the information dump of voices and his mental processing of it was tedious. War in Rhir. Scandal in this kingdom. The Titan’s game in Daquin gave him pause, but the Necromancer dwelled on nothing. It was all information and he processed it.

And then he was done. Az’kerash let his puppets excuse themselves. And but for a mugging of one of them, they were all heading back to their hiding places and he could relinquish control of them. He spoke out loud as his thoughts migrated back together.

“Few new artifacts in the world worthy of consideration.”

He meant to him, of course. The market was full of items any Gold-rank adventurer might want, let alone Silver, but Az’kerash had a limited list of things he needed. He mused as his thoughts went to his armory.

“The Heartflame Breastplate is tempting. Bea, you will monitor the [Messages] relating to the Thieves’ Guild. If it appears on auction, alert me at once. It is not worth straying near Liscor with…the Dragon. However, if it is stolen, I will retrieve the item from the [Thief].Yes. Rather than risk a bidding war with a Walled City or one of the Five Families.”

“Yes, master.”

Bea nodded eagerly. Az’kerash frowned, thinking of Teriarch. But again, only for a moment. He spared a thought for Magnolia Reinhart. Now there was a trove of treasures he would pay any sum for access to. A shame about the Reinhart’s ancestral vault, which he was naturally aware of.

If Magnolia Reinhart had been foolish enough to take anything worth stealing from her vaults, he would have expended every effort to take it from her. As would any [Thief], really. But the difference was that Az’kerash might consider starting a war with Izril once more to take the Crown of Flowers from her.

Ah, well. So much for that notion. The Necromancer ran down his shrinking list of concerns. Ijvani’s location was at the bottom of that list. After that, he would probably begin work on his undead creation again. But before that—

“The young [Necromancer].”

Az’kerash paused. And that was significant. In his unchanging castle, his routine, here was something unique. Something unpredictable. Az’kerash turned his head. And he whispered a word.

“Arise.”

Hundreds of miles away, a skeleton of a rat flickered to life. Green flames burned in the sockets and they beheld a room filled with bones. Az’kerash saw a young man, frustrated, stalking around a crude bone leg. The Necromancer paused. The scene surprised him. Perhaps it was seeing someone else perform necromancy, or the casual way Pisces was doing it.

He hadn’t even barred or locked the door. Someone could walk in and see him. And the window was unshuttered. Az’kerash focused on the vision through the rat’s eyes. His Chosen watched. Bea was speaking.

“Master, there is a contract for the Heartflame Armor if you are interested. An offer has already been put up by…”

She paused as Az’kerash held up one hand. Slowly, the Necromancer’s thoughts focused more heavily, abandoning other pursuits. And something like personality reemerged.

“Is he a fool? Or—no. This inn? [Absorb Recollections].”

He cast the spell on the undead rat. Instantly, Az’kerash’s mind was assailed by sights, sound. No smell, but everything the undead rat had seen or heard in the last three months. It would have overwhelmed Az’kerash if he hadn’t taken steps to enhance his mind. But his mind was already capable of filtering it, experiencing memories and processing them in a heartbeat.

And what he saw was—

“Pisces! Are you playing with your bone again?”

The door slammed open and Pisces nearly leapt out of his robes. He whirled as Erin laughed at him.

“Erin! Please refrain from your humorless jokes!”

The [Innkeeper] laughed. Az’kerash recognized her. And he felt—ire? She’d defeated him at chess. Curiosity—vanishing. Focus on the scene.

“Sorry, sorry! Your bones. And I just wanted to tell you that there’s food below! Hot dogs! Okay, sausage. Say, what’re you making?”

She looked at the undead Bone Horror that the young man was working on, and Az’kerash saw the uneasy expression. But nothing more. Pisces sniffed.

“If you must know, I am redefining the whip-variant of my Bone Horror, improving its capabilities and the length of the arms—”

“Gotcha! Bone stuff! Come down for sausages soon!”

Erin shook her head. Pisces stared as she walked off. He stalked over and slammed the door.

“That vacuous, inconsiderate—”

Memory. This time of a half-Elf, wandering in while munching on a bit of cheese.

“Pisces. Yvlon wants to know if you’ve got her handkerchief.”

Pisces glanced up as he scribbled on a bit of parchment.

“Why would I have her handkerchief?”

“She says you borrowed it. Remember, the nosebleed?”

“I washed it and gave it back.”

“Did you?”

“Yes.”

“Huh. Hey, Yvlon, Pisces says he gave it back!”

“Then where is it?”

An irate woman wearing armor walked into the room. Az’kerash saw her scowl at Pisces as he sighed and pushed his chair back.

“Perhaps Ksmvr has it?”

“Why would he—”

“Wait, didn’t you lend it to him at breakfast.”

“Oh. Sorry, Pisces.”

The young man rolled his eyes. He pushed himself back from the desk.

“Gratifying as it is to be the first suspect—”

“Oh shut up. You stole my quill for three weeks!”

“—would you tell me how this looks? Aesthetically?”

Yvlon and Ceria stared at the parchment. Az’kerash pieced together another bit of memory from the future. Saw a face-mask made of bone. Both half-Elf and Human recoiled.

“Dead gods, Pisces, that’s horrifying!”

He looked quite pleased.

“It’s intended to be. A psychological effect. I intend to mount it on the Bone Horrors when we use them in combat. If I can adjust their faces—”

“Oh no you don’t. I’m not partying with one of those.”

“But the effect—”

“It’s bad enough we have undead attached to our team! Pisces! Can you imagine if someone sees us with that? Besides, who are you scaring? Mossbears?”

“I should imagine [Bandits]—”

The [Necromancer] argued. Ceria kept shaking her head.

“No, and no.”

“I worked for hours on this!”

He snapped at her. Yvlon sighed.

“I’m going to find Ksmvr. Ceria, I leave this to you.”

She wandered out. Az’kerash let the memory flick by. The half-Elf argued with Pisces, he tore up the parchment and she stomped out and then came back with some soft cheese and bread as an apology.

Flicker. Memory. The rat watched as Pisces worked, slept, occasionally as an Antinium entered the inn. But what drew the Necromancer’s attention was the little Gnoll who crept inside to scare Pisces from under the bed, his teammates who opened the door. The [Innkeeper]. None of them were [Necromancers]. But they saw the undead and accepted them.

“Strange.”

That was all Az’kerash said. The sight triggered a memory in him. An old recollection of another time. His past. But—he would have thought necromancy was regarded as abhorrent, at least in Izril and Terandria. Most of the world, now. He had caused that. But this—

Reality came back in a moment. Az’kerash’s thoughts sped back up, alerting him to the present. He saw the young man bowing in front of him. A courtly bow, an imitation of one he might see in a Terandrian court. Az’kerash blinked.

Without subtlety or nuance. A straight courtier’s bow, fluent, but not practiced. Different nations had a more elegant take, but that was perfectly functional. Pisces had seen the undead rat. The Necromancer paused, regarded him. And he spoke.

“Young Necromancer. It has been some time since we have last spoken.”

He saw Pisces raise his head. Az’kerash saw Pisces hesitate, and then reply carefully. Formally.

“I am overjoyed to speak with you, Archmage. And I humbly thank you for the tome. It has been most instructive.”

Az’kerash instructed the rat to swivel its head, taking in the room. He replied softly, absently noting the construction of bones. Piecemeal. The boy was using a piecemeal construction, rather than whole bones. He must lack for a supply, certainly of larger bones. And—he was working on a behemoth-type undead?

Ah, the book Az’kerash had given him. Perfecting Facets of Undeath, by the [Necromancer] Credeth. Pompous, certainly, but excellent in describing fundamental construction techniques. By the looks of it, the young [Necromancer] had failed to grasp the theory so far.

That was disappointing. But mildly so. The boy wasn’t Az’kerash’s apprentice. He was most definitely not in fact. They had an arrangement.

Pisces had encountered Venitra under the guise of Regrika Blackpaw during her disastrous pursuit of Ryoka Griffin. Unhappily, he had known Venitra for what she was and Az’kerash had been forced to intervene. He’d offered Pisces a simple deal: instruction for silence. The alternative would have been death.

This was simpler, for all it carried an inherent risk. But Az’kerash had exacted promises, bound by magic that Pisces could not break. And he had attracted the Necromancer’s attention. After all, Reiss was dead. A failure at the end. But Pisces might be a good replacement. An experiment at the very least.

Az’kerash frowned. But not one he intended to spend too much time on. He had already assisted the young mage with making Bone Horrors, and provided him with a book on necromancy. Indeed, Az’kerash had been quite generous, giving Pisces examples of his own creations. The [Necromancer] was specialized in bone-type undead, which was more difficult than simply reanimating bodies. However…

“What is that design, young Necromancer?”

The rat turned to the skeleton standing in the center of the room. It was similar to a basic skeleton soldier, but horribly, terribly flawed. The ribcage had been redesigned, creating some kind of…Az’kerash peered at it, but the mouse didn’t have a good view.

“I gave you the designs of a more functional skeletal soldier. That is an alteration of my work.”

His voice was ominous. Pisces hesitated and licked his lips, but he did reply.

“Yes, Archmage. However—I was experimenting with the structure of your skeletal soldier. Of course, I mastered the basic form at once! However, in your absence, I considered modifying the central structure to create a projectile weapon of sorts…”

He was referring to the elongated limbs, and the reinforced structure of the spell bindings. It made basic skeletons that bit more deadly at little cost. Az’kerash stared at the ribcage.

“You spent three weeks attempting to redefine a bone structure I personally designed? One without flaw?”

Ridiculous. It was a foolish design as well, weakening the existing integrity of the ribs, which were in themselves a fairly effective design! And a projectile weapon? Pisces defended himself, and a bit of haughtiness leaked into his tone.

“Archmage, I believed it was worth the effort. You see, I had the thought that a skeleton might well surprise an enemy with a crossbow-like weapon, only built into the creature—”

He was interrupted by a sound from the rat. Az’kerash waved a hand in irritation, much to the surprise of his Chosen, who were only watching his side of the conversation. He spoke out loud, the rat copying his words.

“Ridiculous. There is no elasticity without sinew of some kind. I might applaud your ingenuity—I myself have considered such designs, albeit with spell and sinew—but with bone? You fail to understand what any novice [Engineer] would. The standards of [Necromancers] have fallen if you do not understand the basic principle of how crossbows work.”

Pisces flushed beet red at the criticism, and he hunched his shoulders. But he still talked back.

“Archmage Az’kerash, I believe I have completed such a mechanism.”

“Impossible.”

The Necromancer’s voice was dismissive. He watched as Pisces hurried over to his skeleton. The young man angled the skeleton’s chest cavity just to the left of the undead rat controlled by Az’kerash.

“You see, there is a small bolt inside.”

But it wasn’t going to fire. There was no tension. No string that could hold the force. Az’kerash sighed—

And he heard a snap, a crack, and a shard of bone blew past the undead rat’s head and shattered on the far wall.

From below, Lyonette looked upstairs and shook her head as Mrsha and her Gnoll staff looked at her.

“Just Pisces. If he breaks a window or damages a wall, the Horns will pay for it. Keep going.”

Inside the room, the Necromancer stared at the bits of bone on the floor. Then he looked up. Pisces was desperately trying to suppress a smirk. Az’kerash paused. More of his thoughts focused in.

“Remove the skeleton’s protective armor on one side of the body and turn it to face me.”

Pisces did, bones floating away and Az’kerash saw. Pisces pointed it out excitedly.

“You see, Archmage, my design is essentially an inner crossbow built into the torso of the skeleton. Obviously there is space if I miniaturize some elements. The entire bone structure shifts so, and thus creates a hammer effect here…”

“…launching your crude projectile out of the ribcage. That is not a crossbow. But similar in structure. Your terminology is off. But the design…”

Pisces flushed a bit as Az’kerash considered the effect.

“A single shot is all each skeleton would provide. And the design is quite complex. Pointless in an army given the cost to create such a skeleton.”

“Yes, Archmage. However, I have a limited supply of creations I can animate. And I do not create permanent undead.”

That was true. Az’kerash considered the skeleton. It looked ridiculous, frankly. He imagined them trying to aim. They would have to bend backwards to aim upwards, let alone swivel to target something.

“You would sacrifice the integrity of your skeletons for a limited advantage. And this chest-mounted firing mechanism would handicap the skeleton.”

Pisces nodded rapidly. He walked around the skeleton and lifted an arm.

“I am aware of the issues, Archmage. This is my proposed fix for the problem when I understood it. One arm. I am attempting to configure the bones in such a way that it can fire a single bolt of bone while keeping the rest of the corpse more or less natural to the body. If I can mass-animate skeleton warriors for instance, they would be quickly deployed with a significant hidden advantage…”

And fire one shot per battle. One sliver of bone, thrown from a miniature crossbow. Az’kerash considered that. Complex, perhaps needlessly so if you could give a skeleton an actual bow or crossbow. But it could go through an eye, take an enemy off-guard.

“It is still needlessly complex. But continue.”

Pisces relaxed. He sped around the skeleton, reconfiguring it.

“I also had plans to trap the body itself, Archmage, so that the entire body explodes outwards in battle. I had perceived, an, ah, weakness in my team of adventurers. I had encountered the [Sinew Magus], a rather powerful [Mage] by the name of Grimalkin in the last week—”

“Grimalkin?”

Az’kerash paused. His eyes flickered, recalling.

“Ah. Of Pallass. That buffoon. He thrashed your team quite effectively, I take it?”

In physical combat, he was certainly capable of that. Pisces nodded carefully, repeating Grimalkin’s assessment. Az’kerash agreed, at least in part.

“Bone Horrors are not designed for power. Bones are, by nature, lighter than flesh. Had you specialized in Draugr, you would have the crushing force you seek. Assuming you armed your creations with appropriate equipment, such as warhammers. However, your weakness is not a lack of spell power in other fields, young Necromancer. You simply lack for two aspects: [Deathbolt] and your own force of undead.”

Pisces paused.

“You believe so, Archmage?”

Az’kerash felt another twinge of ire. Pisces was exceedingly humble in attitude, but his questions betrayed his skepticism. He spoke flatly.

“I am certain. As I have informed you, [Necromancers] build armies. They do not spontaneously conjure creations; that area lies too far into a [Summoner]’s field. Necromancy’s strength lies in preparation and planning, not spontaneity.”

“I do understand that, Archmage. But my circumstances do not allow me to have, ah, standing undead. And is there not an elegance in having pre-prepared designs one can call forth at need? A focus on quality over quantity?”

“Elegance?”

Az’kerash was almost disbelieving. That young upstart thought—he looked at Pisces’ designs. No, he did assume he could improve on his work! And quality over quantity? Was he implying…

Pisces realized he’d gone too far. He paled, and hastened back to his skeleton, knocking it to pieces and summoning the variety that Az’kerash had shown him.

“Of course, I am a strict student of your wisdom, Archmage! I wouldn’t dream of countermanding your instruction; I only seek to learn as a humble student of your—”

“Silence.”

Pisces paused. Az’kerash looked at him. He was…the Necromancer’s fingers tapped slowly against the armrest of his chair.

“If you believe your designs to be an example of quality over quantity, by all means, continue your efforts to improve them. They have little potential for warfare in my armies. Now, I have insufficient time for instruction this day. I will aide you in your understanding of the fundamental principles of creating undead giants and behemoths. Assuming you are able to understand the concept by the time we next meet.”

He didn’t wait for the flushed Pisces to reply. The Necromancer gestured, and the rat bones collapsed. But he didn’t break the connection. It only seemed to the novice standing in the room that the magic had left the rat. Az’kerash watched Pisces, staring red-faced at the rat and then kick over the skeleton.

“Little potential for warfare? I am not aiming towards war or—or some endless soldiery of mass-produced troops! It’s perfectly viable! And this idiotic book—written by hidebound fossils incapable of new ideas—”

He hurled the tome Az’kerash gave him against the wall. The Necromancer watched, tapping his finger on the armrest. Childish tantrums. Not one shred of dignity about him. And that irksome manner of his, questioning Az’kerash’s designs. You could make an army of undead skeletons with an attachment that fired a single arrow from their arms—you could even make undead who had a small catapult built into one arm like a primitive sling. But what was the point? It was a waste of time.

About to cut the connection, Az’kerash spared a moment to regret his tutelage of Pisces. Part of him wondered if he should simply kill him. The young man was so—so—

And then Az’kerash, the Necromancer, heard the faint tapping sound. He felt it in one finger and stared down. The tapping finger on the armrest stopped. And the Necromancer realized he was…annoyed. It was so surprising he just stared at his finger for a minute.

Annoyed? Him? At being questioned by a single young [Necromancer] less than half his level? Az’kerash blinked. He’d been affronted by the designs, the implication that his undead had, in any way, less elegance or refinement than Pisces was capable of. But that was such an odd statement.

Not to Az’kerash, the Necromancer. He was a master of undeath, and the greatest [Necromancer] living in this world. Even if you put him against the ancient [Necromancers] of old, Az’kerash would have been confident his Skills outclassed those old masters in some areas. But his touchy pride bothered another part of him.

“I would have never taken a student in Wistram to task so. I only took issue with poor students, lazy ones that failed to innovate. Like that upstart Feor.”

Az’kerash stared ahead. Then he looked back through the rat’s eyes. Pisces had stopped throwing things around. Now he was squatting, slapping his forehead and calling himself names for insulting Az’kerash. Every so often he’d glance up at the rat, to make sure it was still inanimate. Az’kerash hesitated. Perhaps…

“Pisces!”

Both the [Necromancer] and the Necromancer jumped. In Az’kerash’s gaze, it was just a movement of the hand. The voice was loud, and it was accompanied by a sharp rap on the door. Lyonette called from outside the hallway.

“We have lunch!”

“Already?”

“…It’s been four hours! We’re still not done, but you are a guest. I have some of Erin’s newest pizza if you’d like to have a quick meal? I think it’s a pizza, anyways.”

Az’kerash saw Pisces hesitate, and then collect himself, he called out as he rushed the bones into his bag of holding.

“I should be delighted to, Miss Lyonette!”

“Good! I’ll set a plate. Come down, but watch your step! It’s, er, a bit slick. The soap Octavia gave me is rather strong.”

The [Necromancer] paused as Lyonette headed downstairs. He looked back at the dead rat and Az’kerash saw him bite his tongue, and then shake his head. He hurried for the door. And Az’kerash, after a moment, followed him.

It was just a whim. But the young man’s odd—relationship with the inn still intrigued Az’kerash. And he felt annoyed at himself for snapping at the boy. When he had studied at Wistram, he had criticized that same inflexibility in his teachers. What on earth had possessed him to copy them? Those flawed, ancient fools? It was a flaw in his thinking and should be corrected. Not that Az’kerash interacted with the living, but arrogance was a weakness.

As for Pisces—Az’kerash had also heard an unfamiliar word. And the scholar in him had to hesitate.

“Pizza?”

Some new dish, of course. But it did intrigue, so the Necromancer found a new set of eyes to follow Pisces. Obviously, the undead rat the [Necromancer] thought was Az’kerash’s only eyes on him wouldn’t do. So Az’kerash cast his senses around the inn and surrounding area. It was simple. There was death everywhere.

And in this case, Az’kerash’s new minion came exactly in the same place he had found the old. The People of the Grain Sack, the rats of Erin’s basement, had been slaughtered mercilessly by the horrible ‘pets’ of Elirr. But not all their bones had been disposed of. A few corpses remained, hidden in a grain sack, suffocated by the grain.

It was really going to make Erin call into question the health codes of her inn when she thought of them, but to be fair, her grain was preserved, and so were the corpses since they technically counted as food. Just potentially filled with rat germs. Now, one of these corpses moved. The rat’s body twitched, began to dig upwards, out of the sack. It emerged, scampered towards the basement stairs. And turned invisible, soundless.

“[Greater Invisibility]. [Muffle]. Hm. [Concealed Presence]. [Sticky Feet].”

Az’kerash cast a few spells, turning the rat invisible from detection both mundane and magical. Of course, if a Named Adventurer or someone with high detections Skills was present, he would have to improvise. But the rat, climbing out of the trap door with [Enhanced Strength], encountered no such formidable adversaries. It raced up the wall and saw Pisces as he slowly descended the steps.

The inn was clear, both of people and debris on the floor. In fact, the floors were so polished, it was almost a sin to walk on them. And it was certainly precarious. Octavia’s soap formula had worked—too well. The floors were polished, smooth, and slippery, as if they had had a wax coating. Pisces overbalanced, caught himself with trained grace, and watched Drassi flip and fall on her back.

“Ow!”

The Drake was on duty, and she’d been carrying a platter of food to the table of the inn’s staff. Mrsha, bouncing at the table, looked up in dismay. But Pisces raised a finger and the strange pile of food stopped in midair.

“Drassi, are you alright? Good catch, Pisces!”

Lyonette got up and slipped towards Drassi with Ishkr and a Gnoll. They all nearly fell over as Drassi tried to get up.

“It’s the floor, Lyonette! It’s too slippery!”

“I know, I know. Octavia warned me, but I must have not added enough water! We’ll fix it.”

“We’ve washed it with water and it won’t stop slipping.”

Ishkr pointed out as Pisces made his way over to the table. Az’kerash scurried the rat closer. What was this? The aforementioned pizza?

It did not look like any dish he recognized. Nor, as Pisces pointed out, did it look like a pizza. Mrsha sniffed it suspiciously. It was much too tall, more like a pie than a pizza! And it had…sauce on top? Mrsha stared at Lyonette as she returned to the table. What was this trickery, she signed indignantly? She had been promised pizza!

“It is pizza, Mrsha dear. According to Erin. It’s…deep dish pizza. And I’m told it’s quite fattening, so you’ll eat greens tonight. Don’t give me that look! Drassi, pass me the knife.”

Lyonette scolded Mrsha gently as she served a slice. Pisces, Mrsha, the staff, and Az’kerash all saw the knife bite into the crust and thick pizza and reveal a cheesy filling and a thick base. Mrsha’s eyes lit up. Pisces just sighed.

“Some days it feels like Miss Solstice is unable to make a dish that contains healthy food.”

“If you don’t want it—”

Lyonette looked up. Pisces waved a hand.

“I’m merely remarking on her general culinary focus. By all means, serve me a…slice.”

He took a plate and fork. Mrsha was already gobbling hers and burning her tongue. Pisces began savoring his meal as Drassi rubbed her back.

“Hey, can I get some to share when I leave, Lyonette?”

“Mm. Sure. Erin can always make more. Let’s eat!”

All of them began to tuck into the meal. Az’kerash, possessing a rat…watched. And he frowned. A bit of curiosity rose in him. That had to taste…taste?

“Pizza?”

“What, master?”

The Chosen were watching him. Az’kerash rose, absently, as he watched Pisces making small talk with Lyonette, explaining away the sounds from earlier. And he began to walk, past his undead creations who shuffled out of his way.

It was just a whim. But Az’kerash was concentrated, his thoughts all revolving around this moment. He was in the moment, recalling his past as an Archmage. And he had never seen a food like that before.

The [Necromancer] walked through the halls of his castle, passing by motionless skeletal knights, followed by his Chosen. He paused as he walked through the halls, turned left, then came back the way he’d come. He was looking for a room he hadn’t used since he bought this castle from a certain [Witch]. She’d thrown it in with a deal on the robes he wore. And he had never thought he’d need this room.

But the kitchen did exist. And it was full of dust. Not spiders or any animals; they stayed away. Az’kerash blinked at it. And then he raised his hand.

“[Gust of Wind].”

His Chosen, following him, found themselves encased in a miniature tornado of dust and debris. They walked through it, and peeked around the corner to see Az’kerash standing in the center of the kitchen. They looked at each other. But now was the time.

Bea was the one to speak. Even if she wasn’t first of Az’kerash’s chosen, like Kerash, she often got away with infractions Venitra, Kerash, Ijvani, and Oom did not.

“…Master? What are you doing?”

The Necromancer turned. He looked at Bea, and then paused.

“Simply…cooking.”

“Cooking?”

Bea was confused. Az’kerash had never eaten. Not since her creation. But the Necromancer was raising a hand. Absently running his hand through the air. Where would he find…?

“Ingredients. My Chosen.”

“Master?”

They chorused as one. Az’kerash turned his head.

“There is a storeroom filled with foods somewhere in this castle. Preserved. Find it. Bring it to me. Bea, wear gloves.”

“Yes, Master. What do you wish? How many bags of holding?”

The Chosen surged with energy. Az’kerash frowned. He stared through the undead rat’s eyes as Lyonette went for another pizza and slipped.

“One, should do. I will not need much of each…flour. Cheese. Hm. That red sauce. Tomatoes? And some…basil. Eggs. Water. Clean water. Salt? And oil, yes.”

“At once, Master!”

The Chosen raced off, vying to be the first one to return. They ran through the halls, searching room after room. Venitra was the first to find the storehouse. Or so she assumed. She stared at the neat rows of produce, bought by her master for some reason that eluded her. Food. It was so…

“Flour first. Perhaps a bag.”

She eyed the huge bags that would require two grown men to carry. Then she bent and inspected the tubular, round things inside.

“Flour?”

She prodded them. They were soft and had some kind of skin. Was this…Venitra stared at the bag. She circled around it. Then she realized they weren’t labeled.

“Venitra? Is this the room?”

Bea and Kerash skidded into the room. They stared at Venitra. She looked up at them, her competitive spirit fading slightly.

“Bea. Kerash. What does flour look like?”

The two Chosen paused. And then looked at each other. And they realized, among their vast knowledge of the world, cooking had never really been an issue for the undead. They turned into an anxious huddle.

“Flour. That was what master said. I know tomatoes. Red things.”

“Flour. Flowers?”

“No, the white stuff. Like…bone meal?”

“That’s right! What’s salt?”

“Um…the same stuff.”

“No. Eggs?”

“Round.”

“Half the things in here are round!”

“Oh, I know! They turn into chickens!”

Kerash and Venitra stared at Bea. She hesitated.

“I think.”

Az’kerash was still silently watching the meal when his Chosen raced back into the room. He turned his head as they timidly offered him a bag of holding.

“Master, we have brought it. Um…”

The Necromancer reached into the bag and produced the ingredients, one by one. All except for…he stared at a potato.

“This is not an egg, Venitra.”

The bone woman hesitated. Az’kerash inspected the ingredients. He slowly reached for a handful of powder.

“And this is sugar. Not salt. Go back and find the correct ingredients.”

“Yes master.”

The undead hurried off. Az’kerash ignored them. He was fascinated by his own thoughts. How did it go? How did it…flour. And water and eggs. And he needed a bowl—

He looked about for his Chosen and realized they were gone. Absently, Az’kerash clicked his fingers. The stone of the kitchen counter moved, and a perfect, smooth bowl formed out of the stone. The Necromancer stared at it.

“Flour.”

He tossed it in. Egg? He stared at the filthy water that Venitra had brought from somewhere. The undead had a very loose understanding of hygiene too.

“[Purify Water].”

There. Water, clean and sparkling. Az’kerash looked up as his servants raced back in.

“Is this salt?”

“Yes. That’s still not an egg. Venitra. Find me an egg. It looks like—”

Az’kerash clicked his fingers. A floating image of an egg appeared. Venitra gasped.

“That’s an egg? Yes, Master!”

Az’kerash absently cracked an egg when it reappeared. He stared into the bowel, as the water sat on top of flour and the egg’s yolk mixed with all of it. Bea made a face.

“Ew. Is that cooking?”

“Maybe it turns into something. Like Oom and mana cores.”

The Necromancer ignored them. He absently reached out, plucked a wand out of his bag of holding. Stared at it. He cast the wand aside and created a whisk made out of air. Better. He began stirring it.

The flour congealed with the water as it mixed. Bea, who was a zombie engineered from plague, stared at the mixing substances with undisguised horror. Venitra stared at the bowl, appalled. Kerash just blinked.

“Ew, ew, ew…”

“Bea, hush.”

Az’kerash stared at the dough. It had to rise. No—you could bake it as it was, he recalled. He raised one hand. The dough rose upwards. The pizza looked like—

The dough moved. It shaped itself, into an approximation of the bowl. Az’kerash paused. Cheese? He stared at a wheel.

“Kerash, slice it. Into small pieces.”

The Gnoll drew his sword, one of the six Baneblades made to slay the living. He chopped up the cheese. Az’kerash poured it into the bowl. Next came the tomatoes. Venitra raised one fist. He eyed her, pointed. The tomato pulped in midair, poured on top of the cheese. Venitra lowered her fist, dejected.

“Is that it?”

Az’kerash mused. He couldn’t help but feel that it had been different. Ah, the [Chefs] of Terandria courts didn’t work so. But he was out of touch. Out of his field. Absently, the [Necromancer] clicked his fingers.

“Let’s see. [Flame Jet]?”

A blast of fire shot from his hands, struck the ceiling, and turned the room to fire. Bea and Kerash fled. Az’kerash narrowed his eyes, adjusted the heat. He turned to Venitra and gestured absently.

“Venitra, close the door.”

Joyfully, the bone woman did. The kitchen, now an oven, smoldered, and Az’kerash, still holding the pie in his free hand, watched it bake.

“Clearly a flawed attempt.”

That was his remark afterwards. The crust, in the searing heat, had browned. It was too thin, and lacked yeast. The tomato sauce wasn’t actually a sauce with the nuance Erin had made, but just…pulpy tomatoes. The cheese was okay, but the deep dish pizza was too hot. The Necromancer pointed.

“[Deep Freeze].”

It turned to ice. He tapped it again.

“[Warming Touch].”

There. The pizza was steaming. Az’kerash placed it on the counter as Bea and Kerash peeked back in. Venitra stared at her master. He regarded it. Inspected it. Sliced a piece away. Raised it to his lips. And took a bite.

“Master?”

His Chosen gaped at him. Az’kerash frowned, chewed, swallowed. He considered the food for a moment.

“Crude. Even were it made correctly. The nobility of Terandria would not stand for it if they knew how simple it was. But if I were…”

He lapsed into thought. And Perril Chandler remembered a boy who might have loved the taste of this dish. He stared at the pizza, and then at the image of Pisces eating, stealing the last bit of pizza from Mrsha. He looked at the burnt, ill-made version in front of him. And he turned away.

His Chosen watched the Necromancer leave the kitchen. They stared at each other, full of wild surmise. They could guess their master’s will most times, at least in part, but this? They stared at the pizza, and the single bite taken out of the slice. After a moment, Kerash reached for a piece.

Venitra beat him to it. She snatched up the pizza, took a huge bite. She chewed, and Bea and Kerash all took a bite of the rest of the pizza. After a moment, they swallowed. All of them stared at the deep dish pizza. Then at each other. Venitra tossed her pizza down. The undead woman scowled and spat the pizza out; she didn’t have a throat. She was solid bone. Kerash poked at his stomach experimentally. Bea shook her head.

“I don’t see the point. It’s pretty, though. Like the inside of a fresh body.”



—-



The Necromancer didn’t know why he was still watching. Only that the young Pisces called to him. In a way. It had taken Az’kerash some time to make the pizza. And then, the Necromancer returned to his work room and absently continued working on his whale design. But the feed into the inn continued in his mind. And as time passed—so quickly for the [Necromancer], but so full of relevance for the living, he saw Pisces returning upstairs. The inn filling with guests, half of whom fell over. His team returning.

He had a team. People who trusted him. Az’kerash saw the half-Elf, the female [Warrior], and the Antinium joining Pisces. Lyonette had a sign warning everyone of the slippage. She could only wait for the floor to redirty itself; she wasn’t about to spread sawdust, which would defeat all the work they’d done. There were some benefits to the slippery floors.

“Whee! Go Mrsha!”

Drassi skidded across the floor, using some towels like skates. Mrsha slid past her on her stomach. The staff had cleared a path for her down the center of the inn when they’d moved the chairs back and the Gnoll was happily sliding across the floor. Some of the guests were trying it too, but they didn’t have the childish ability to surf on their stomachs like Mrsha.

Pisces was there too. Az’kerash had seen him return to his studies, trying to memorize an [Acid Orb] spell. And then return below as his team came back. Ceria was telling him about some scenario involving their team.

“Stan’s on board, and so is Alais’ team and a few others. I think they’re still sort of, you know, about us, but they want the pay. We’re going to go out on a preliminary expedition soon with them, so be polite, Pisces.”

“I shall be exceedingly polite to their fragile egos.”

The [Necromancer] sneered. He was having a dish of greens with a side of salmon. He paused as Mrsha slid by him on her back, giggling silently and waving her paws. Ceria laughed with delight and Yvlon smiled. Pisces just sniffed.

“Childish.”

The Gnoll cub looked up, slightly hurt, and Yvlon punched Pisces on the shoulder.

“Don’t spoil her fun. Is Erin back yet?”

“Not yet. Although I am amused to see her inn is the locus of her breed of chaos, even when she herself is not here.”

They all laughed at that. Az’kerash watched the inn fill, empty. The rat followed Pisces upstairs as night fell. Watching. Just watching. His friends bade him good night. The Antinium even stood in Pisces’ room, watching him demonstrate the new skeleton and dutifully applauded. The [Necromancer] smiled.

“Why am I continuing to observe?”

Az’kerash didn’t know. Guilt over his remarks to Pisces? Fascination? No—there wasn’t anything new here. Pisces’ designs were moderately innovative. The [Necromancer] wasn’t particularly high-level. Az’kerash could have attempted to spy on the King of Destruction.

So why…? Az’kerash kept watching as Pisces studied in his room, as the night deepened. He couldn’t place it. But there was something familiar in him. Something about the way Pisces stomped around the room insulting the author of the book for their convoluted explanations. Az’kerash almost caught himself nodding as he experimented with a sinew crossbow. Obviously, it worked. But who needed to build it into a body when you could buy…?

It was late into the night when Pisces closed his book. Az’kerash expected him to sleep, but the [Necromancer] tiptoed to the door and cautiously peeked outside. Az’kerash stopped his work, intrigued. Pisces had a furtive air about him as he checked the rat skeleton, the hallway, and then tiptoed downstairs. He nearly slipped on the stairs, but made it down into the common room. There he paused.

Az’kerash waited. He waited for Pisces to use the magic door, or perhaps steal from the kitchen. He might be a thief, or conducting some petty betrayal. It was a fact of this era. [Necromancers] were liminal people, outcasts, thieves, petty murderers—that was their role in society. And that was who they were, by and large. It was a stigma, an identity formed by his role. What they had painted him as, and who he had become. The Necromancer stifled the emotions. Waited.

“[Muffle].”

Pisces pointed at himself with a whisper. His feet were soundless as he padded across the floor, in his socks. Az’kerash nodded to himself, coldly unsurprised. Not disappointed; there was nothing to hope for. Subterfuge, perhaps. Meeting with a criminal of some kind? Or simply some perverse voyeurism, petty spying or—

Pisces stopped by the door. He paused, taking a few breaths. Az’kerash, turning back to his work, watched the [Necromancer] look around, inhale deeply one more time–

And then run across the floor. The Necromancer looked up. The undead rat he was controlling saw Pisces slide past him, arms outstretched for balance. The young man caught himself, and then turned. He kicked off the stage at the far end, slid back on one foot.

Az’kerash blinked. Pisces was grinning wildly, windmilling his arms for balance. He kicked off a table and slid! He spun as he went, laughing silently. And then as he reached a far wall, he went for it.

Pisces did a penguin-dive across the floor on his belly, arms outstretched, laughing. He spun as he went, ending up in a casual lounging posture as he bumped against the stage at the far wall. He was grinning, embarrassed, looking around, but no one was watching. He climbed on the stage, did a running jump and cannonballed onto floor, spinning across it. He was laughing, as a white Gnoll sped past him on her side, staring at him—

The [Necromancer] twisted. He turned to stare at Mrsha and ran knee-first into a chair. Az’kerash couldn’t hear Pisces, [Muffled] as he was, but he heard the impact, and saw the young man curl up and silently shout in pain. Then Pisces was on his feet. He stared around and a little, furry head popped up across the room. Mrsha stared at Pisces. He stared back. Slowly, he raised one finger to his lips. Mrsha blinked at him.

Clap. Clap. Clap.

The faint sound made Pisces whirl. His face went dead white as he saw, on the staircase, a huddle of shapes. Ceria clapped her hands, grinning ear-to-ear. Yvlon was leaning against Ksmvr, laughing so hard she couldn’t stand upright. Only the [Muffle] spell on her kept her from making any sounds. Ksmvr was staring at Pisces, head cocked to one side.

Lyonette was giggling. Even Numbtongue looked amused. Mrsha slid past Pisces. An incredibly smug look was plastered upon her face.

“Looks like fun.”

That was all Ceria said. She took one look at Pisces’ face, and then burst into laughter. He turned bright red and vanished, literally. The [Invisibility] spell didn’t help, though; his audience had burst into guffaws.

“Come on, Pisces, it’s too late now!”

Yvlon howled with laughter when the [Muffle] spell was taken off her. She walked down the stairs, her face nearly purple from laughter. She looked around, and then snagged a bit of air trying to move past her. Pisces reappeared, too red-faced for words. But Ceria just laughed. She leapt down and did a slide across the floor.

“This is fun! I can see why you wanted to do it in private.”

She laughed. Ksmvr came down the stairs. He looked at Pisces and placed a hand on his shoulder.

“I am very impressed at your mobility, Comrade Pisces. I shall do my best to emulate you.”

Then he got down and slid on his back across the floor, waving his arms in the air. Pisces tried to get away, but Yvlon, laughing, wouldn’t let him go. He was trying to justify himself, until Yvlon took a running start, tried to slide, and wiped out. She slid past Mrsha, and the Gnoll leapt on her back and surfed her across the room.

“Mrsha!”

Lyonette was beside herself. But she and Numbtongue were coming down, and then Seborn and Moore, who’d been roused by the ruckus. Soon, everyone was sliding back and forth. Pisces’ face never quite turned back to normal, but he was able to laugh, drink three mugs from behind the bar, and then join the others in races to see who could slide across the floor fastest.

The Necromancer saw it all. Az’kerash realized he was standing. Standing and staring at the image playing through the undead rat. He wasn’t working on the whale, or holding another conversation. Every thought, every fiber of his being, was fixed on the scene. He watched Pisces sliding back and forth, and then Moore tossing people across the now-cleared floor. And Az’kerash—

Laughed. It burst out of him. Laughter. Genuine, unprecedented. The Necromancer laughed, caught himself, stared at the image of a half-Giant trying to slide across the floor as half a dozen people pushed him.

And he laughed. The sound echoed through his castle. It was so foreign it made Kerash grab his sword. Venitra strode the hallways, searching for the intruder. She saw her master laughing in his quarters and froze. She had heard him chuckle, seen him smile wryly, or with cynical detachment.

But this? Az’kerash kept laughing. And then, after a minute, he stopped. But he was still feeling levity, even after the minute had passed. And he walked past Venitra, who had frozen.

Down into a wide ballroom. Long deserted, the tapestries faded away to dust. The [Necromancer] stopped there. And he hesitated, much as Pisces had done. But it called to him, that empty space. So he pointed.

“[Ice Floor].”

It spread across the cold stone in a moment, a thin sheet of water, frozen. The Necromancer put one foot on the ice. And he paused. But then he kicked off. And he slid across the ground that looked like glass.

Bea was watching. The plague zombie alone was there. Kerash was still searching the perimeter, convinced it was anyone but his master. Venitra was still standing where she was, trying to memorize, analyze the laughter, the look on her master’s face. But Bea peeked around a door and saw him.

Az’kerash slid across the floor, slowly turning, spinning, halting. It wasn’t an uncontrolled slide, like Pisces’ first attempt. He slid across the ice, pausing, adjusting his trajectory with careful movements. He had done this before. And as memory returned, he kicked off. He slid, no, he skated across the floor on one foot, turning, jumping, spinning. He didn’t have skates but it wasn’t elegance he strove for.

He had done this before. Bea saw it. The smooth glide, the way he caught himself from falling. The Necromancer slid across the floor a few times, but lacking skates, and unwilling to do the belly slide, there wasn’t much you could do. But he wasn’t going to stop with that.

The ice melted with a wave of one hand. And the water evaporated. Bea saw Az’kerash turn. And he waved a hand.

The dead rose. Skeletons, at first. Bone pouring fourth, shaking into Human figures, slowly gathering. And then—an illusion. Bone took on the seeming of cloth. Flesh.

Humans stood in the ballroom. And they wore the dresses of old. Elegant clothing, the kind Bea had seen in images of Terandrian nobles. A woman she had killed with a single touch. Beautiful clothing. And the people were beautiful. Smoothed by memory. They stood for a moment.

And then there was light. Bea flinched, but it was another illusion. Az’kerash turned. The ballroom changed. Worn stone turned into smooth, colored tiles. Rags into smooth curtains. Sitting chairs, servants circulating with trays.

And the people began to move. Men and women walked towards each other. He with a bow, she a proffered hand. They paired off, moved in slow steps.

Now music. Bea heard a haunting strain, some string instrument playing slowly. A quiet brass. Picking up in speed. The song filled the hall. And Az’kerash walked among the dancers. They moved in perfect synchronization; that was the only unreal aspect of the illusion. But each of them knew him. A man with a crown and a full beard nodded to Az’kerash, gesturing, scarred cheek twisted, but by a smile. A woman with a circlet approached shyly, hand proffered. A [Knight] bowed, all dignity and straight back.

More. [Mages], in their robes. A haughty Drake accompanied by a trio of giant women—no, statues, each perfectly sculpted. A pair of Garuda holding staves. They stood to the side as the dancers moved to the rhythm of the song.

Az’kerash stood among them. Looking from face to face. And then, at the woman with the circlet. She was most realized of the others. Her face alive with beauty, a hint of laughter, some nerves. Bea touched her face. And she looked at the woman and realized they were the same.

The dancers swirled in front of Az’kerash for a moment. And then they parted. The music picked up. It wasn’t quiet now, but moving. A call to the dance. Not fast, but with deliberate tempo. And he walked from among them.

The Necromancer walked forwards. And Bea saw his face was colorful. Pale in skin, but alive. And his eyes—she felt a surge of apprehension. They were a pale green, alive, not the dark pits she knew. Peril Chandler, Archmage Chandler, turned his head. And he held out a hand, accepting the woman, the other Bea’s hand.

They stepped into the center of the room. And the dancers slowly began to revolve around them. Az’kerash moved slowly at first, his legs and body moving to a tempo he had all but forgotten. But one he had known. And he turned, staring at the woman. Bea had seen the look on his face a thousand times. She knew it as fondness, amusement, affection. But this was deeper. A thousand times.

It broke her heart. And Bea hadn’t known she had a heart that could break. She whispered one word.

“Master?”

He never heard her. On Az’kerash danced, and the faces turned to him. Each one different. [Kings], nobility, [Mages]. [Knights] and men and women dressed with less elegance than their counterparts. All smiling. Laughing.

Until the song began to fade. Until, Perril Chandler, turning, saw a flash of contempt across one face. It stood out. A frown, across the crowned [King]’s face. A flash of fear across the women he held.

A discordant note pieced through the music. It halted abruptly. Perril Chandler’s smooth steps faltered. He stopped. The woman he held stared up at him. And her eyes were suddenly distant.

He looked around. The other dancers had stopped. And now, some wore masks. They hid, whispering behind them to each other. Others pointed. Some turned away. One by one, their faces turned accusatory.

Archmage Chandler looked around. He wavered, halted, turning. But the two Garuda had lowered their staffs, bowed their heads. Others he looked for were gone. The Drake and the three carved women were gone. Only one of them remained, and her carved face watched with bitter anguish.

The [Knight] approached Az’kerash. Spat on the floor, drew his sword and pointed it at Az’kerash. A man shouted something. But it was a silent scene.

Alone, the [Necromancer] stood. Amid a sea of faces. Lost figures. They turned on him, then. Full of wrath. Leapt, drawing blades, attacking from behind. He stood there. And as they moved towards him, they turned to dust.

The [King] was first. A look of mortal terror flashed across his face and he raised his hands. He turned to dust, the illusion vanishing, the skeleton disintegrating. The [Knight] was next, swinging his sword. One by one, the people closest to the [Necromancer] turned to dust. Then the others began to flee. They tried to run, not attack. But it was too late. They slowly fell to pieces, turning to pale powder on the floor.

The woman was one of the last. The man knelt over her, holding her for a long time. She looked up at him. And he reached for her. But she closed her eyes and vanished. He straightened, then. And his robes were black. His skin deathly pale. His black eyes searched the room. Bea saw Az’kerash look around.

He was no longer smiling. No longer laughing. The Necromancer stood amid the dust, his head bowed. He did not weep. His shoulders did not shake. He just looked around. And time came back like the crashing waves.

Az’kerash’s face was pained as Bea hesitantly approached. Pained, and then it smoothed as he turned to her. The emotion in his eyes pierced her, holding her tongue, keeping her speechless. But for a second. It faded. Disappearing into the void, the white void of his eyes.

“Master?”

A lone voice. The thing that had once been a man turned. And memory turned into reality. Bea stood in front of him, her face decayed. Her hair not flowing and full, but gone in parts. He smiled at her, appreciating the beauty he saw.

But Bea remembered the woman. And she was afraid. She didn’t know what to say. She didn’t have words to describe what she had felt. She only knew what—Bea knew. And Bea was young. So she approached her master, timidly. She looked up at him.

“Master. I am sorry I failed you. I am sorry. But I miss Oom.”

It was a child’s statement. Self-absorbed. Guiltily, without knowing why. Az’kerash looked at her. And he held her, embraced her.

“Bea. My lovely child. You have not failed me.”

“I haven’t?”

“No. It is I who fail you. My craft is not yet enough. The strength I gave you was not sufficient to best Zel Shivertail. My Chosen, my children, are still children.”

The words filled Bea with despair. She clung to her master, and she could not cry.

“I wish to serve you forever, Master. What am I doing wrong? How can I fix myself?”

The Necromancer looked down at her. And he touched her face.

“Forever is a long time, my dear. Even the undead fade. I would that you could stay with me. But…”

Bea looked at him. And Az’kerash paused.

“You lack only for one thing, Bea. You, Venitra, Kerash, Oom, and Ijvani. One thing that would elevate my Chosen, allow you to correct your flaws. Without it, you are unchanging. With it, you might deliver me that forever.”

“What? Master—if it is anything, we will find it for you. Salt, or flour. Or…”

Az’kerash laughed softly. Bea held still, hopeful. But he shook his head.

“It is nothing you can make. Or if it is, every hint of it was scoured from the earth. It is something I failed at a hundred thousand times. But still, I persist.”

“What?”

“Life. Someday, I will complete the secret to creating life. And someday, perhaps, you will level, Bea. If I could only understand what I lack. But neither Zelkyr nor I ever finished the secret. And I fear my friend died, leaving Cognita shackled. And you—you are forever my child. You will not grow. But I love you for that.”

Bea closed her eyes. It hurt. Even when he told her he loved her. Because she knew she was incomplete. And she would know it forever. But maybe—she looked up. And he nodded.

“Someday, master? You promise?”

“Yes. I will keep trying. I promise you. Forever.”

He held her. And she took all the comfort from his promise.

After a while, Az’kerash rose. He brushed Bea’s cheek, and then left her standing in the dust. He walked through his castle, past an army of undead led by Kerash. A silent Venitra watched him walk into his work room. The Necromancer stared up at his creation hanging in the air. And then he waved a hand.

The thing he worked on next was simple. It was so simple, it was beyond his grasp. The Necromancer raised his hands. And all of his craft, all of his being went into it. A twisting word, a magical script compressed a million times. A library’s worth of words, drawn in magic. All the power he could command, shimmering into a point. It was a word, but incomplete.

Power scorched through the air. Az’kerash pointed and the charged air turned the sky dark. The objects in the room, the other magical wards, began to fail as the magical script condensed further, into a shining point. He raised both hands, and his eyes opened wide.

Flesh moved among bone. Organs moved, forming together. A heart rose, beating, imitating life. Lungs heaved, a body filled with blood and every component floated in front of him. He pointed, and the mote of light struck its chest. For a second, the heart beat. And the eyes opened. Az’kerash pointed.

“Live.”

The eyes opened—and the magic blasted outwards. The Necromancer raised one hand. The shockwave sent every object in the room flying. He stood as it blasted outwards, and the undead in his castle looked up, their eyes flickering for a moment.

And then it was done. The Necromancer stood amid failure. And he exhaled. He turned away. He walked towards his quarters.

Things to do. He didn’t sleep. He didn’t rest. But some things were beyond him. Perhaps even immortals needed to stop. There, Az’kerash sat. He thought of this day. An aberration among countless others. And at last, he waved a hand.

In a dark room an undead rat sat up. It regarded a sleeping young man, sprawled out in his bed, snoring after a late night of…fun. Childish though it may be. Az’kerash regarded him. And he thought of the man he was. He turned his head, staring at the incomplete foot, the attempt at a behemoth.

So young. So inexperienced. But—so familiar. The Necromancer paused, looking down at Pisces. Then he raised a finger.

In the room, the bones stirred. They floated out of Pisces’ bag of holding. They reshaped themselves. And a creature of bone rose. A monster far larger than a Bone Horror. Smaller than a giant. The Necromancer paused as it began to touch the ceiling. Then—he was struck by a thought.

He smiled, and twisted his fingers. The bone bent, reshaping itself. The form kept building, but compressing itself, doubling over, moving sideways, to fit in the enclosed space. The Necromancer kept working, assembling the final product.

He finished it at last. The twisting structure of bone filled the room. A behemoth, compressed through contortions of bone, but complete. And animated. The spell matrices twisted in Az’kerash’s sight, a complex knot due to how the creature was aligned. But it was whole. And its eyes flickered to life. The head rested just above Pisces as the [Necromancer] tossed in his bed, oblivious of the change.

The Necromancer paused, looking at the behemoth. It pleased him, in a slightly perverse way. The young man would have to decipher it to understand how it worked. It was a riddle made of magic only a [Necromancer] could solve, and even then—tricky. He had to admit. But it was familiar.

Homework. The kind he’d used to give to students, a lifetime ago. For a moment, the Necromancer smiled. And then the little rat floated forwards. It scribbled on the skull of the undead creature facing Pisces. A spell. The little paw engraved the magical words deep in the skull, a black spell, a death magic.

Call it a whim. Call it a chance. Az’kerash turned away. He had work to do, and Pisces was only one of his concerns. But—he spared one last look as the rat collapsed onto the table. He would not watch the boy today. Perhaps tomorrow. To see how he had done. Perhaps, to see him and his team. The strange inn.

But the Necromancer’s amusement faded. His eyes darkened. And he looked at the slumbering form one last time. He whispered.

“Someday, you will see the depths of their hatred for you, boy. Rejoice in your today, for that tomorrow lies ahead. Inevitably.”

He turned away. And the Necromancer thought of the future. The past was dead. He sat back in his chair and closed his eyes for nine seconds. And he thought of nothing at all. Then he opened his eyes.

“…Where did Ijvani go?”





6.52 K


The Wandering Inn had breakfast. It had breakfast every day, in fact, except on rare days that involved calamity, monster attacks, or breakfast turning into brunch because everyone had been up last night partying. It happened every single day.

And it generally wasn’t interesting. It was, in the scheme of the day, a quiet opening to the more interesting events that took place. For example, this morning the inn’s customers had breakfast.

Lyonette was serving a yogurt mixed with sweet blue fruits. There were toast and butter if anyone wanted any. The Horns of Hammerad were there. Seborn and Moore were eating with Lyonette and Mrsha. Jelaqua had not returned last night. There were a few other regular guests, including Bevussa, alone, who had come for the blue fruits. She had a sweet…beak.

Relc was here. He wasn’t talking about drinking or moaning about his familial relations. He was eating two huge bowls of yogurt and fruit after a late-night of patrol and yawning. He was drinking it down with a tankard of mead, but that was about it.

At his table, Pisces the [Necromancer] was eating just fruits. He was reading from a parchment scroll and frowning as he ate. Ceria yawned as she picked at her toast.

“So, yeah. We’ll have to go into Liscor with the other teams tomorrow for the Bloodfields briefing.”

“Mhm.”

Yvlon ate with a fork, maneuvering it with some grace despite the metal armguards she now almost always wore. She only took them off when the skin underneath needed washing and then—carefully. She had an infection, just a bit of red swelling and pus along where the metal was fused with her flesh she hadn’t told anyone about. She chewed as Ceria went on.

“I think we’ll take it easy today. I’ll practice. Obviously.”

“Got it. Need help with the hot tub?”

“That’d be good.”

“I will heat the water, Captain Ceria.”

“Thanks, Ksmvr.”

Not even that was funny. Pisces kept eating. After a few minutes, a familiar voice echoed through the room.

“Hello everyone!”

Erin Solstice bounded into the inn. Everyone looked up. Erin turned around, beaming. She’d been out this morning. To get her hair cut. She turned.

“How do I look?”

“Good.”

Erin wavered. Her inn’s guests had all looked up and some had suffered from that instinctive rectal and stomach-clenching that they had learned to associate with Erin and sudden and often dangerous events. But her cut hair? They went back to eating. It was almost a letdown. Erin sulked as she went over to the table.

“It looks nice.”

Lyonette tried her best as she let Mrsha feed her slices of blue fruit. The Gnoll waved a paw and nodded encouragingly. Erin sighed.

“Thanks. I mean, I’m not expecting applause or anything—I just got it cut. But it’s nice to see people noticing.”

She looked around meaningfully. Seborn looked up from his bowl. He stared at Erin, nodded once, and went back to eating. Erin sighed. She sat back at the table, yawning.

It wasn’t that she’d had an eventful morning; she’d gone to the [Barber], and sure, he’d been a snazzy Gnoll (since Drakes didn’t have hair, obviously, that was a real issue Erin hadn’t thought about), but he’d been very excited to do her hair! It had been a fun experience, but…Erin yawned again. She’d had a more interesting yesterday.

Not that anyone cared. She’d told them a bit last night, but it was still low-brow stuff compared to the usual. It was sometimes good that way. Erin stared at Mrsha, feeding a smiling Lyonette, Relc, yawning and muttering about sleeping for twelve hours until his next shift, Pisces reading while he kept missing his bowl, and Bevussa using her talons to eat.

Erin frowned—she was going to talk to Pisces later for that thing this morning—and then noticed a shivering Drake sitting at a table as far away from hers as possible. Erin called out cheerfully to him.

“Hey Teliv! What’s wrong? Want more breakfast? I can get you other food if you don’t like yogurt!”

Teliv the Drake [Host] and sometimes [Negotiator] jumped at Erin’s voice. He looked up.

“What? No! No, no thank you, Miss Erin. No more food. I’m not hungry.”

He pushed his barely-touched bowl back unsteadily. Ceria looked up, her mouth full, and glanced at Erin. Teliv had a familiar look in his eye; she knew it because she’d had it about half a year ago when she first visited the inn.

“Erin, did you do something to Teliv?”

“Me?”

Erin tried to look innocent. She shrugged.

“No…we just went to Esthelm. Nothing big.”

“Hah!”

Teliv’s bark of laughter made some of the other diners look up. Relc scooted his chair closer, looking sleepily interested.

“Ooh, I know Erin went to Esthelm yesterday with some of the Watch. I didn’t get to go. Captain Z said I was unsuitable for diplomatic missions. What’d Erin do? Burn it down?”

“Relc! I wouldn’t do that! It was fine! We went, they loved us, especially the food and the stuff we gave them, and we signed a deal! Liscor’ll get some ore and we’ll even get visitors!”

Erin protested. Ceria raised her brows and the guests in the inn looked at Teliv for his take. He shook his head.

“That happened, but—the Hobgoblin entered the city! He snuck in after following us! That was only the start!”

He pointed at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin looked up and grumbled something. This time Seborn glanced at Erin.

“That wasn’t a huge incident?”

“Whaaat? No! I mean, Esthelm’s cool. Cooler than Liscor. They didn’t get that upset. In fact, some of them knew Numbtongue!”

Erin smiled at Numbtongue.

“He was like a hero! Only, he didn’t get a parade and it was mostly awkward. But they let him in! And they liked me and him. They even gave me a hat. Let me get it!”

She hurried into the kitchen, remembered she lived upstairs, and came down in a clatter with a wreath on her head. The flowers were still fairly fresh, but showing the first signs of wilting after being outside so long. Now, in the inn, they’d be preserved forever in their near-freshness.

“See? I got one for Numbtongue, but he must have lost his. It was only a bit of a fuss.”

The Hobgoblin had left it with the graves. But that wasn’t a breakfast topic. Nor did he speak. He just folded his arms, content in silence. Teliv shuddered.

“Only a bit of a fuss? We came so close to a diplomatic incident. Four times! The Hobgoblin wasn’t even the worst of it. She encouraged a near riot!”

He pointed a claw at Erin. She tried to look innocent. Bevussa opened her beak in a grin. She turned as Relc began munching on some toast and sipping his drink happily. Erin hesitated as Lyonette, Mrsha, and Moore stared at her. Seborn drained half his mug of water and went back to polishing one of his daggers.

“I wouldn’t say a riot. Look, there was a jerk. He was all about stealing people’s money and charging ‘travel fees’ and stuff. Like [Bandits]. I…helped get rid of him.”

“She organized a coup.”

“Well, not really—”

Ceria raised her eyebrows and nodded to Yvlon. The woman nodded back. They had the same thought as most of the guests. Definitely a coup.

Well it sounded like Esthelm had been interesting. Noteworthy, even. But this was breakfast. Erin’s protests became weaker as Teliv found himself recounting the tale to those who were interested in the story. He began relaxing as they shared their first ‘Erin moments’, and he found someone had bought him a round. They began talking over breakfast.

And that was about it. Nothing interesting was happening. No one cared about her hair. Erin sighed. It wasn’t a fancy cut. Neither she nor her [Barber] had quite trusted that; he was good at styling fur, not Erin’s mane. She edged away from the conversation around Teliv so she wouldn’t have to hear all the embarrassing and mainly accurate things they were saying about her.

What to do? Well, she could clean a pot in the kitchen that had some caramelized sugar stuck to the bottom of it. Or get ready for lunch; Lyonette had her in the kitchen to replenish their food stocks. And maybe later today Erin would see about getting a nice bath since she was somewhat hairy from the cutting. Then she could visit some people in Pallass, maybe. But Erin wasn’t intending to stir up trouble.

“Some days are quiet. Nice.”

Erin sighed wistfully. She was done with trouble. Even Esthelm had been pushing it. And she really hadn’t started a coup. She wandered across the inn, and came to an almost abandoned table. The Horns had all left Pisces to go about their business; the [Necromancer] was still absently eating.

“Hey. Pisces. Psst. Pisces. Whatcha reading?”

Pisces looked up. He blinked as Erin slid into a chair next to him. He rubbed at one eye, yawned; Erin yawned too since she’d had a late night.

“Ah, Erin. Merely refreshing myself with a summary of the latest events. This is just a small collection of newsworthy topics I purchased at the Mage’s Guild.”

Erin blinked blankly at Pisces. He sighed and lowered the scroll, keeping it unraveled with one hand. She noted cramped handwriting and what looked like dates.

“So, you’re reading a newspaper?”

Pisces paused a moment and his sleepy gaze flicked up towards Erin’s face before relaxing. He spoke casually as he speared a bit of fruit.

“I have no idea what you mean. But if you are referring to something similar to Olesm’s chess newsletter, you could say so, yes. However, the difference is that I requested the requisite information and paid a nominal fee for it. Normally I could get some information from [Criers] or gossip, but I prefer it to be tabulated and organized.”

Erin frowned. Newspapers were still a thing of mystery to this world, probably because paper was still somewhat expensive.

“I don’t get it. Explain it to me again. And does this have anything to do with the reason you woke us all up this morning by screaming?”

Pisces flushed. He had indeed woken the inn up with an ear-piercing shout, another pre-breakfast oddity. But he’d rushed out of his room to assure everyone that nothing was wrong. Erin assumed he’d stubbed his toe. Now she glanced sideways at the [Necromancer] and detected a bit of embarrassment and—Pisces coughed.

“That was purely an accident, Miss Solstice. A happy one, I assure you. I was simply unprepared for…well, a happy accident.”

“Does it have anything to do with the huge bone thing in your room?”

He jumped and stared at Erin. She shrugged.

“Mrsha peeked. I did too. It’s filling the entire room! What if we need to clean it?”

“I’ll thank you to respect my privacy! And it’s an ongoing project. A rather…tricky one.”

Erin bet he’d scared himself. And no wonder, with all those bones jumbled up! But she let Pisces collect himself and sniff haughtily a few times.

“Okay, so what you bought from the Mage’s Guild for…how much? It’s a…news…parchment. That has all the latest events?”

Pisces sighed.

“No. It cost me, let me see—nine copper pieces, since I provided the parchment. Hardly expensive, although then again, fairly steep to the layperson given how simple the task is. But I suppose that is how the Mage’s Guild earns some of its revenue.”

“Spare me the economics! How’s it different?”

Erin waved a hand. Pisces sighed, longer this time.

“I asked them to write down all the information they had on the Tiqr conflict and they did. Happy? This is all the information on the event publically available for the last—”

He checked the parchment.

“—month. I am refreshing myself. Of course, I knew some of the information already, but one must keep up with the latest events to be truly cosmopolitan.”

“You just want to be a know-it-all. What does it matter what’s happening in Chandrar?”

Erin narrowed her eyes at Pisces. He looked mildly offended.

“Erin, Chandrar is an entire continent. It is also home to the King of Destruction, who was once in a position to threaten the entire world. I believe even you know of him? Why would I not care what is happening in the world outside of my immediate area?”

The young woman hesitated, and this time guiltily. That sounded a bit too much like her…her mind fuzzed for a second. Her dad…? She skipped over that fact to reply to Pisces.

“Well—okay. Sure! Being globally aware is great. Sorry, I take it back.”

“Thank you.”

“Even if you do like being a know-it-all. But that Flos dude won’t really affect Liscor, will he?”

“Time can only tell. The odds of him reconquering Chandrar are remote, or so I feel. But other continents can affect ours. Just look at Terandria.”

Erin dutifully looked around the room. She needed to get a map for the walls. That would be a great decoration when the inn’s remodeling was done!

“Go on.”

The young [Mage] sat back in his chair, looking pleased at his audience. He spoke in his lecturing tone that Erin had first hated so much, now much improved. It was lecturing, but not sneering.

“Well, Terandria has always had a rocky relationship with Izril. I could delve into the ancient blood ties that link the Five Families and other noble houses of Izril to Terandria’s own gentry, but to be brief—and simple—sometimes Terandria makes war with Izril. Northern Izril, since they are closest, but they have been known to send armies against the Drakes as well. The last occasion they landed along a coast and, well, invaded for nearly a decade. They expanded and attempted to claim part of Izril.”

“Why? I bet all the Drakes joined up to get rid of them. That sounds like a stupid idea.”

The [Innkeeper] wrinkled her nose. Pisces nodded, smiling.

“Oh, assuredly they did. But Terandria reaped a number of benefits. And incurred heavy losses when they were smashed by an expedition led by the Walled Cities, including Archmage Zelkyr—”

“Zelkyr? Wait, when was this?”

“Nearly a century and a half ago. It was an instructive example! In practice, nations trade with each other all the time and wars can even be fought across oceans, although this is generally reserved for only larger conflicts. But [Pirates] raid Izril’s coasts, and sometimes a nation will send forces to other lands. All this to say that other continents might well affect Izril, as they did in the Second Antinium War.”

Pisces sat back, waiting for a response. Erin pondered for a moment and shrugged.

“Cool.”

“That’s it?”

He looked askance. Erin rested her chin on the table.

“It’s got nothing to do with the inn. I dunno, I know I should keep up with it, but it’s not my…”

She hesitated.

“…interest. I mean, I just don’t know enough about the history. Yeah.”

Pisces eyed Erin. She tried to look innocent and he let it slide, much to her relief.

“Well, I could always educate you on the relevant subjects. But this is simply a little update for myself. The war against Tiqr is coming to a close and I thought I should review the facts. It was interesting—there was a longer section here that I haven’t read yet—”

He tried to roll the scroll down to a section at the bottom, but he was blocked as Erin poked her head over.

“Alright, you’ve got me, you sly dog. Lay it on me. Where’s Tiqr and why do I care? It’s got to do with the Dental King, right? The King of Destruction?”

Either Erin was truly bored, or she actually cared about world news. Pisces narrowed his eyes, trying to figure out which it was. He sighed, and unrolled the parchment, tracing his way back to the top.

“The conflict in Tiqr is an ongoing war between the nation of Tiqr, and a coalition of nations. About eleven or ten in all, all opposed to the King of Destruction.”

“Right, right. Because he’s a jerk.”

Erin nodded agreeably. Pisces paused.

“That is a simple reading of him, but he is dangerous, yes. In any case, this is the twenty seventh day of the conflict between the Empire of Tiqr and the Nerrhavian-led Coalition. They are attacking Tiqr—”

“Wait, not the King of Destruction?”

Pisces sighed.

“No, not him. They are attacking Tiqr, one of the few nations openly sympathetic to his cause, or at least truly neutral and not opposed to him. Three major nations and a number of smaller ones have entered the conflict. The largest by far is Nerrhavia’s Fallen, hence their designation as the ‘leader’. In truth, they are simply the largest power by far.”

“Nerrhavia’s Fallen? That’s a name of a country?”

Erin was lost at sea. Pisces looked at her and nodded slowly. He flicked his fingers and produced a quill from a bag of holding.

“Geography. Reim is here. Northeast of Tiqr by a fair margin. This conflict is happening along the south of Chandrar, these nations here, here, here, and here.”

He outlined four nations, all close together. One was decidedly larger than the rest. Erin blinked at them. Pisces tapped one.

“That’s Tiqr.”

“Right. Got it. So all these nations have ganged up on Tiqr because Tiqr liked the King of Destruction?”

“The reasons are slightly more complex. But yes. They took the King of Destruction’s proclamation of peace-without-provocation as a chance to attack one of his allies. If he makes a move, he is forsworn. On the other hand, if he does nothing, Tiqr falls, and the other nations happily claim it.”

Now it was making sense. Erin exhaled.

“Ooh. That’s dirty. Uh—what’s this proclamation of peace?”

The [Necromancer] stared at Erin. She raised her hands.

“I’m sorry!”

It took a minute for him to explain what Flos’ declaration was and why it was so significant. Then Pisces went back to his crude map. He pointed.

“A number of kingdoms have joined the coalition against Tiqr for hopes of gaining land, but in practice, there are only four major powers. Tiqr is one of them. The empire is fairly prosperous, if not in monetary wealth, then in wildlife. Savannas and a number of oases make up the nation, and they are renowned for their [Beastmasters] and connection with animals. Their [Empress] is even known as the Empress of Beasts. Empress…Nsiia.”

He had to check his notes for that. Erin nodded. She tried to imagine it, but…all she could imagine was a female Elirr with a crown. She smirked.

“Wait, what species are they?”

“Human, predominantly.”

Now Erin frowned. She was imagining…no, it was still too hard. She had never met someone from Chandrar. Maybe Octavia? But she had no idea what it looked like. How they lived. It was far away. She looked at Pisces helplessly and he tried to elaborate. But he had never been there either.

“It is a proud nation by all accounts. They are not to be taken lightly. And their [Empress], though young, is thought to be as capable a leader as a warrior. However, she erred by allowing the other nations reason to declare war on Tiqr. She stands alone.”

“No one’s coming to help her?”

“No one has. In the beginning, I believe, the world was watching to see whether the King of Destruction would ride to her aid. He could have, perhaps, if he declared Tiqr his subjects. But many would see it as him breaking his vow. Or—perhaps—if other nations would aid Tiqr. They are allied with the Garuda-led nation of Killale to the east, but Killale is militarily inferior. And the odds against Tiqr…”

Pisces pursed his lips. Erin looked at his face.

“No one came.”

“No.”

A pause. Erin looked at the crude map and tried to imagine the landscape.

“Tell me about Tiqr, then.”

“I am told it is—was—very beautiful. The processions of Tiqr’s [Beast Tamers] are famed, their animals friendly. Many are wild still, but they exist with the people of Tiqr in relative peace. It was one of the nations spared the ravages of war during the King of Destruction’s rise, for all they fought at his side. Until now…”



—-



[Empress] Nsiia stood upon the ramp leading up to the palace. She commanded the highest view from Tiqr’s capital city, Oliphant. But even her palace was shorter than the buildings of other cities. Oliphant was sprawling, not built to heights. And it had few stairs. Gentle ramps and open streets dominated the sandstone of her beloved home. All to allow the animals that were Tiqr’s children access to the city.

Now, though, she looked at her city and wished for towering walls. For fortifications built into the sky, like the Drake Cities, or the cold Dullahan structures of Baleros. Even Terandria’s ancient castles. She had seen so few. But she had dreamed of them.

“Empress.”

A voice called to her. She turned and saw a man approaching. Her [Wild General], Vasraf. He walked forwards, dressed not in ceremonial armor, colorfully bedecked with flowers, but leather and steel. He carried a curved shortsword at his hip, but his true weapon, the bow that few warriors, men or women, could draw, was not with him. It was not time for battle.

Yet she saw it everywhere. Her people were not out and about, but spending what time they had with their families. Her army was readying itself for war. Already, the formal declarations had been sent. Nsiia looked at them. She had tossed them from the steps of her palace, but a few still fluttered, caught by the dry wind on the bottom of the ramp.

“Empress.”

Vasraf bowed. His voice was grave. Deep. He looked at her and she saw a reflection of the worry that must be crossing her own face. She saw a hand touch his shoulder, dark skin, with quivering fingers. Her hand? She couldn’t show that.

The quivering stopped. Empress Nsiia looked at Vasraf.

“They are all coming. I will be at the council shortly. Has the Wildkeeper arrived?”

“They are all on their way. Nsiia. We cannot stop them all.”

“I know.”

The Empress of Beasts ducked her head. She wore no crown—at least, none that other rulers would consider one. Her headband danced with colors, feathers of birds she had caught. Even a Roc’s feather. It was magical, an heirloom of Tiqr.

Absently, Nsiia raised her hand, touching a bright yellow feather from the sparkling shock-birds that were so elusive. One of her subjects had given it to her. If she plucked it, for a moment she could use the powers of the bird she had caught. In times of peace, it was her delight to do so for the enjoyment of all.

Now, though, she thought that every feather would be used for war. And every tool, every trick in Tiqr’s armories. She looked at her [General]. His eyes were pale green, alight in his face. His skin was darker than even hers, from years spent out under Tiqr’s sun. She had seen him fight. And she had known him all her life. He did not lie.

“Vasraf. Killale is not coming. Their flocks send only regrets.”

The news struck him, but not hard. Not now.

“All of them?”

“Every one. They have counted.”

He nodded, a muscle moving in his cheek.

“Then the King of Destruction—will he come?”

“I do not think so.”

It was too far. Too far, for Reim to leave their borders. Even if he sent some of his Seven, he would be under attack from all sides. Forsworn. It was a neat trap he’d placed himself in. Or had found himself in. Nsiia looked east, as if she could see him. Vasraf waited.

“Will you ask him?”

“No.”

And that was it. He did not ask why. It was only a dream in any case. They both looked across the city. And then Nsiia saw something move. A giant, a grey shape. She watched it approaching, moving up the ramp with slow, calm steps.

“Thef.”

She reached out as the Grand Elephant approached. Thef, her friend, the elephant she had grown up alongside, reached out his huge trunk and she touched it. He was a giant among elephants; his species could grow to be twice as large as a regular elephant. A giant species, rarely seen even in Chandrar. The effort of feeding just one group could be immense. But Tiqr had always had a bond with this species. Now, he lowered his head, his tusks glinting with ornamentation.

“You have come because I am worried. Thef.”

Nsiia touched his leg, but did not reach up to let him place her on his back. She knew the animals of Tiqr were restless, the hyenas snapping, the birds in flight. They could sense war as well.

“Thef. You will have to wear the armor you hate so much. And fight. We must all fight, it seems. Though I did not ask for war. He warned me, that Femithain of Illivere. But he marches on us too, with his things of stone and magic.”

Vasraf watched his [Empress] speaking softly to Thef. He made a sound and she turned.

“My Empress. We cannot hold them. Tiqr has not enough choke points. Our army is not vast enough. Nerrhavia alone is sending an army two hundred thousand strong.”

The Empress of Beasts turned. She looked at him, young for her throne. Mortally afraid. But then she nodded. And she stood straighter. Thef made a small trumpeting sound. He followed her as she turned, walking back into her open palace.

“Then we will hold, Vasraf. And ask any of our allies for a miracle. We will hold and break Nerrhavia, Savere, Illivere, and all the other armies to pieces. Unless my [General] disagrees?”

His eyes flashed.

“Never. They will regret crossing our borders.”

“Then let us go.”

Nsiia turned and looked back once across her home. Peaceful. And she touched the feather in her headband. Then she turned, as the first drums of war began to echo across Tiqr. Summoning war.



—-



“Couldn’t they win? I mean, if they made fortifications and stuff?”

Erin was listening to Pisces. He looked amused. But then, he had been keeping up on what the war had been like.

“How? Tiqr is not as defensible as, say, Liscor. The geography is not advantageous to castles. Nor do many nations build them in Chandrar. No. And the nations arranged against Tiqr gave them no time. See—on the second day.”

He showed Erin a line on the parchment. It was short. All it read was—Erin squinted.

“Armies from Savere, the Illivere Federation, enter Tiqr’s borders. Nerrhavia sends two hundred—two hundred thousand?”

She stared at the parchment. Pisces nodded. He tapped the large nation.

“This is Nerrhavia’s Fallen.”

“That’s…big. Why’s it so much bigger than the others?”

“It is a powerful nation. String People. Their armies began crossing into Tiqr’s borders. Dozens of them.”

“And Savere? This federation?”

“Two other prominent nations. Savere is known for, well, it’s relationship with [Pirates] among other things. Illivere is more complex. It is a mage-state. And it produces Golems.”

“Really?”

“Oh yes. They have traditionally been diplomatic, but their leader, Magus-Crafter Femithain, declared war on Tiqr along with the other nations. He may have been reluctant to do so; he is, by all accounts, a cautious and pragmatic ruler. Compared to Savere’s ruler, at least.”

“But they went to war. How many did Illivere send? Oh! It says only eight thousand! Hey, that’s tiny!”

“And…”

Pisces pointed. Erin’s face fell.

“And four hundred Golems. Oh.”



—-



The air was unnaturally still. Magus-Crafter Femithain had ridden through Tiqr before. And he was accustomed to more life. The savannas of Tiqr benefitted from the rains that made Savere so prosperous. Normally, he expected to see more life. But it had all fled.

So the silence was only broken by the footsteps of [Soldiers]. The Magus-Crafter glanced up as he walked. He was on foot, as was his entire army. Illivere had sent eight thousand of its small army. But they were experienced [Soldiers], not raw recruits. Moreover, Illivere’s strength did not lie in its warriors of flesh and blood. No. That came from the huge shapes plodding ahead of the Humans.

Golems. Tools of labor and war. They marched ahead of the troops, carved legs of stone or wood or in a few places, simply sand, moving forwards in huge, laborious strides. Most were uncovered, unadorned save for clothing or features sculpted into the Golem’s bodies themselves. Some carried weapons, or pulled carts along.

That was the Illivere Federation’s strength. Golems. Golems for labor, for protection. And yes, for war. Four hundred of them might be a small number at a glance, but who would take down one of those towering giants? Some were as tall as half-Giants; a few had been made even taller. Although the ancient techniques of creating titans and more advanced Golems was a faded art.

“Magus-Crafter!”

Femithain’s [Armsmaster of Steel] strode towards the Magus-Crafter. He paused as the Magus-Crafter’s escort turned. It was a practiced move; the two huge, steel figures walking besides Femithain were programmed to guard him with their lives. Femithain looked up and saw a huge, steel face staring down at him.

Flanking him were the two Golems he had crafted himself to earn his title. They were metal. Steel. One was armed with a maul nearly as tall as it was, a terror of a weapon. The other carried a shield and sword, his personal bodyguard.

“Armsmaster Dellic. What news?”

The [Armsmaster], lower in rank than a [General], but one of the few officers that Illivere employed, clapped a hand to his breast.

“Magus-Crafter. I request we slow our pace. I have riders from Nerrhavia stating their army is advancing past ours. And Savere’s forces are somewhere in the vicinity. I have sent a Golem-patrol to keep us aware of their movements.”

His face twisted a bit as he delivered the request. Nerrhavia had stated they were advancing, not requested. Femithain understood the man’s feelings. But his face was smooth, calm. The Magus-Crafter was a deft [Diplomat] as well as mage.

“We will slow to let Nerrhavia’s forces pass. Armsmaster, break for a meal.”

“Yes, Magus-Crafter.”

The man clapped a hand to his left shoulder. Metal struck metal as Femithain turned. He raised a staff, concentrated. The Golems next to him slowed their pace, came to a stop. In his army, he knew, the other [Artificers], the mages specializing in Golem-creation and control were ordering their Golems to slow. The Human [Soldiers] came to a stop smoothly and the wagons unloaded. They took their ease more or less comfortably, for all they were in enemy territory. After all, their Golems were standing sentry.

Femithain stopped where he was, and pulled a chair from his bag of holding to sit. It was, perhaps, unmilitary of him. And as his [Armsmaster] returned, he saw the man was uncomfortable.

“An issue, Armsmaster Dellic?”

“Not as such, Magus-Crafter. Will you allow me a seat?”

“By all means.”

The [Armsmaster] produced his own seat from his bag of holding. If it was odd for a commander and the leader of a nation to be so casual, well, there was reason for it. The Illivere Federation elected its Magus-Crafter and it was made of smaller states; hardly the same as a monarchy. Femithain could be a normal citizen if he failed to be elected next year. He had held his position each year for the last eleven years however.

In the same way, Dellic was hardly a mere soldier. He was certainly educated; the Illivere Federation required a leader to have passed through their education systems. It made Dellic something of an outsider to many officers, as well as his odd rank, however, and Femithain was aware of the conflicts that had already arisen.

“Tell me of what troubles you, Armsmaster Dellic.,”

“Not much yet, Magus-Crafter. We have received…correspondence from Savere’s [General]. She protests our slow pace.”

“In those words?”

“No.”

Femithain nodded sympathetically. Savere, the nation that bordered Tiqr, ruled by the Siren of Tides, was often thought to be lawless. Certainly, they allowed more criminal elements to infiltrate their armies and even sponsored raids against other nations. They held their power because of their relationship with [Bandit Lords], [Pirate Captains], and so on. And the fact that the Siren of Savere was not to be trifled with.

“We were first to march, Armsmaster. Inform Savere’s [General] that our pace is unavoidable. We will take to the front if they wish it.”

Dellic nodded, casting a glance back at the Golems. It wasn’t just them that made Illivere’s army so slow. Golems could march all night, after all. In truth, Illivere’s army was moving slowest of all the nations that had sent armies against Tiqr, their army smallest. And their leader, Magus-Crafter Femithain, the most troubled. After a moment, Dellic cut in delicately.

“Magus-Crafter, you do not need to be at the front. I am capable of leading in your stead. Even if Tiqr is outnumbered, risking your life is not necessary.”

Femithain glanced at Dellic. The man was of the same opinion as the rest of the world. Tiqr was doomed. Ultimately, Femithain had no doubt of that, but he had met Nsiia. And he could not imagine she would roll over after seeing even Nerrhavia’s army. He shook his head.

“Illivere has voted to bring war to Tiqr. As Magus-Crafter, I am bound to lead my nation in the attack.”

“But you argued against—”

Dellic began, but shut his mouth. Femithain rose. He had heard it too. Illivere’s [Soldiers] looked around and then got up. They stared.

In the distance, another army was approaching. At first, it appeared to be a tiny force. But it kept growing, kept streaming forth. Dellic paled and ordered Illivere’s army to move back, giving the other army space. Femithain only watched. He saw the chariots first, and then ranks of marching soldiers. Thousands. Tens of thousands. Over two hundred thousand.

The Stitch-People of Nerrhavia’s Fallen had arrived. Nerrhavia’s chariot-led armies streamed past Illivere’s slow march, thousands of chariots driven by the impossibly beautiful, almost radiant Stitch-Warriors whose bodies were made of silk. They practically radiated the sun and their skin had a luster and attractiveness to it that matched, well, silk. Their flesh seemed to have been just oiled, smoothed without age or wear to detract from it.

The drivers and riders whooped and called out to Illivere’s army, some flirting, others laughing at the Golems or Humans. A few broke formation until their officers called them back, riding around the Humans. Femithain did not move, standing flanked by his personal Golems. Dellic shifted until a silk-flesh officer rode towards them.

He was beautiful, worthy of being a model in another world, just like his kin. He called out as he swung himself down from his saddle.

“Magus-Crafter, our regards! We thought to see you further along!”

His voice was condescending. Femithain nodded towards him calmly, ignoring Deliic’s shifting posture.

“Our apologies, First-Chariot Bereid. Our pace has been slowed due to our Golems. We will recover the ground over the course of the day. I will attend any meeting of the coalition’s leaders tonight, regardless of the location.”

The First-Chariot officer blinked, unarmed by Femithain’s knowledge of his rank and title. He adopted a more diplomatic tone.

“We appreciate the message, but I doubt we will require a formal meeting. [General] Thelican, he wishes to deliver Tiqr to Queen Yisame by the end of the week! We look forwards to seeing you on the battlefield! Our hope is that we can all join the first battle together! If you would wish it, we would be honored to have your company on our march!”

“It would be my pleasure. But perhaps at a later time. Tender my regards to General Thelican.”

Femithain bowed his head. The First-Chariot officer gave him a sweeping bow, and then leapt back on his horse, racing back towards his command. Dellic made a disgusted sound.

“Magus-Crafter—”

“I know. Be quiet, Dellic. Some may be listening.”

In silence, the two watched the army pass them by. Nerrhavia’s army was certainly a sight to see. The beautiful chariot-drivers were leaders, but as they passed, Femithain saw a different type of Stitch-Person appear.

By contrast, the foot-soldiers marching in the dust generated by the chariots were crude, their skin rough, callused-looking. Closer to hide than skin, in fact. Dellic made a sound as he watched them pass, seeing some of the bright silk officers shouting at them, hurling insults.

“I’ve never seen Stitch-People like that before.”

Femithain had. He spoke quietly, motioning one of the Golems to block their conversation.

“The warriors are what I understand to be Hemp—or some variety thereof. The strongest materials go into making them, which leads to their rough appearance. Nerrhavia—no, String People’s society is caste-based. One of the few societies that practices such systems. The islanders do, and perhaps Lizardfolk and Drakes, to some extent. Not so uncommon, then.”

“Minos or Drath?”

Femithain didn’t respond. He was too busy watching the Hemp [Soldiers] marching. They looked tired. Nerrhavia must have pushed them hard to have made it all the way here so quickly.

Theirs was not the only army that Femithain witnessed that day. Not by far. Dellic had been informed that Savere’s forces were already ahead of them, but one of their forces nearly ran into his army. Dellic called a halt, aghast, as a band of riders several thousand strong raced past theirs.

There was no organization in this group, or noticeably, supply wagons. They could have been using bags of holding, but—Femithain noticed the disorganized appearance of the riders, listened to their jeers as they raced past. Dellic looked at him. Femithain watched them go.

“Savere’s irregulars. Pitch camp away from them.”

“[Bandits].”

One of the mage-officers in Illivere’s army looked disgusted. She flushed as Femithaim looked at her. But he just nodded.

“Or [Pirates]. [Rogues], perhaps; keep an eye on our supplies. Savere’s raiders will not hesitate to poach from our stocks to keep themselves fed.”

Their army moved on. Savere and Nerrhavia were the two powerhouses along with Illivere who had gone to war with Tiqr, but theirs were hardly the only armies. Nearly half a dozen smaller nations had contributed their forces. Femithain greeted Deimos’ [General], leading a group of camel-riders and lightly-armored infantry.

That was fine. Pleasurable, even. Deimos’ [General] was delighted to dine with Femithain that night. He had brought a large number of slaves with his army, to serve them. Femithain, a leader of a Golem-state, had none, but was accustomed to the practice of lounging while everything was done for him.

“I worry our armies will hardly have the chance to make the first strike, Magus-Crafter. We are marching quickly, but Nerrhavia and Savere seem determined to make the first strike. To the victors the spoils, but my [King] wishes at least a piece of Tiqr.”

The [General] confided in Femithain over a cup of wine. The Magus-Crafter drank sparingly, shaking his head.

“I believe you will have your chance to war, General Heic. Tiqr will not surrender easily.”

“You believe so? I would have tendered my resignation if I were defending against all this.”

Heic waved a hand to indicate the armies currently camping in the outer regions of Tiqr’s borders. Femithain paused.

“It is true that Tiqr has little chance. Even if the King of Destruction should move—”

“Dead gods perish the thought. We’ve left more than half our forces at home just for that eventuality.”

Heic shuddered. Femithain nodded. So had Illivere’s forces.

“Even should he move, the odds still favor the coalition. But if Tiqr should resist despite the odds—”

“Why would they do that? It will be a slaughter.”

Heic looked bemused. Femithain took his time in replying.

“Empress Nsiia is known as the Empress of Beasts. And she is much like her people, General Heic. I have no doubt she is aware of the odds stacked against her. But—you speak of surrendering? Tell me, have you ever known an animal to surrender?”

“I’ve seen some roll over.”

“In a fight to the death?”

The [General] paused.

“No. Never that.”

“Just so. Have no fear, General. Your time will come. And I do fear Tiqr will fall. If not easily.”

He’d said too much. Heic was silent, watching him. Femithain sipped from his cup. Even he had no idea how prophetic his words were.



—-



“Alright. I see there’s a lot of armies moving in.”

Erin was nodding. It was barely a few minutes into her talk with Pisces; she was getting a refill of blue fruit slices. He levitated one out of her bowl, speared it on a fork.

“Indeed. The armies were marching on Tiqr’s capital, plundering outlying settlements—mainly Savere’s doing.”

“[Raider] jerks, right?”

“You have a remarkable ability to distill the information down to the fundamental points. Yes. Meanwhile, the world waited on Reim to move.”

“And did they?”

“No. As I said, the King of Destruction swore an oath. Oh, he kept some forces on the border, but Nerrhavia blocks Reim from moving. And as I said, King of Destruction or not, his army does not match the man himself at the moment.”

Pisces tapped the map. Erin nodded. It was like…Risk. Not chess. She stared at a note.

“Standing forces on Nerrhavia’s border at least twelve thousand strong. About one thousand of Reim’s [Soldiers] spotted on their borders, led by Mars the Illusionist. No movement on either side.”



—-



The land between Reim and Nerrhavia was owned, by local tribes, smaller cities, even claimed by other nations. But no one stopped Nerrhavia’s forces from setting up across from Reim’s borders. It was a small force, at least, in terms of what Nerrhavia could field. But it wasn’t there to do battle.

Just threaten. The Stitch-Warriors were resplendent in their armor, camped across a flat expanse that separated their army from Reim’s borders. If they had had the chance, would they have advanced? Dared to cross into Reim, to test the King of Destruction’s mettle?

Perhaps. Perhaps they would have. Nerrhavia was bold. But a small force had camped opposite theirs, across the no-man’s land that was in fact, someone else’s land. But no one would have angrily protested this small force’s presence either. For the thousand or so warriors were led by a woman dressed in glittering armor.

Mars the Illusionist. She wore purple hair today, and she strode down the line of her soldiers, a smile on her face. Mars, the [Vanguard]. One of the King of Destruction’s Seven.

It was enough to make Nerrhavia wary; they’d reinforced their lines twice already, until they had over ten times her number. She could see them in the distance, far out of bow-shot or even most mage spells. They were waiting. Waiting to see if the King of Destruction would come to Tiqr’s aide.

“And if he does, are you going to stop them?”

Mars sighed as she drank from a bottle of wine. She was bored. This was guard-duty, plain and simple. Flos hadn’t ordered her to do anything other than provoke Nerrhavia. It was necessary, but she wished she were with Orthenon in Hellios, quelling dissent, or with Flos himself in Reim. She envied Gazi. But she wasn’t about to poke out her own eyes so she was crippled. Who had poked Gazi’s eye out, anyways? Some [Innkeeper] in Izril? How?

It boggled the mind. Mars sighed as she heard a distant sound, blown by the wind. They were doing it again.

Across the gap, Nerrhavia’s forces were making noise. The String-Warriors blew on their horns, a wailing, mocking call that reached across the no-man’s land. From this distance, it was impossible to make out any one individual voice, but the distant chanting and cheers were still audible. They were taunting Reim’s forces, the third day in a row.

Reim’s [Soldiers] shifted uncomfortably. They might have shouted back, like they did on the first day, but they would have been drowned out. A young [Lieutenant] looked at Mars. She was antsy, unhappy with facing off against the vaster, contemptuous String-Warriors.

“Lady Mars?”

The [Vanguard] looked up. She had a headache. She tossed the bottle of wine onto the ground and yawned. Only then did she look over at Nerrhavia’s elites.

“I hear it. Looks like they’re trying to make music. Keep calm, girls and boys. Nobody scare them or they’ll stretch their shiny silk backsides.”

The [Soldiers] around her laughed. They relaxed, and Mars headed back to her tent.

“At ease. Let me find a drink and we’ll do some sparring. You all might as well level. Don’t bother with formations, [Lieutenant].”

The woman looked uneasy.

“Lady Mars? Is that wise?”

The [Vanguard] looked back at her. Nerrhavia was making more noise, unhappy with Reim relaxing its ranks and setting up for training. Mars scratched her head.

“What?”

“What if Nerrhavia attacks us? Shouldn’t we keep some kind of guard?”

The [Lieutenant] looked nervous. Mars just stared at her, and then back at Nerrhavia’s soldiers. They were jeering even louder. Idiots were using a spell to make more noise. She smirked.

“You mean, if Nerrhavia attacks Reim, provoking his Majesty?”

The young woman blushed a bit. Mars grinned too.

“They’re only here to run away if we attack, [Lieutenant]. If I run at them, they’ll probably run away and come back with a real army. Let them attack us. It would be hilarious.”

She laughed, and the [Lieutenant] laughed, relieved, relaxing. Mars smiled all the way into her tent. Then she paused, and the smile faded. She looked blankly at the wine bottles scattered on the floor of her tent. Tiqr was going to war. And here she was. Reim was silent. They had to be; her [King] had explained it to her. But still. That bothered her far more than all the jeering.



—-



“Tiqr’s forces meet a joint-army led by Savere and Nerrhavia at the edges of the Reen Plains. Both forces withdraw at sundown.”

Erin read the first mention of battle slowly. She looked at Pisces.

“What, no numbers? Who won?”

Pisces shrugged.

“These are basic snippets of information, Erin. [Mages] reporting facts to their rulers might know more, but this is what was factually confirmed. However, we know the winner. See?”

He pointed to another entry. Erin read that one.

“Tiqr’s army cedes Reen Plains. Savere, Nerrhavia, occupy. Illivere, Deimos…joining…okay. They won.”

The [Necromancer] nodded.

“Exactly. Not that it was a surprising result. As we stated, Nerrhavia’s forces alone could push Tiqr’s entire military. Now, see how they’re occupying other areas? Slowly taking Tiqr?”

“Yeah. They’re pushing in from all sides.”

Erin nodded absently. She didn’t like strategy games like this. She’d tried videogames, but she really was a board-game type of person. Real time strategy got too real for her. But she could see more reports. The Mage’s Guild didn’t list battles won, only who was retreating. And it was all one-way.

“I guess Tiqr just kept losing and losing.”

“Yes, but by increments. Note how it took two days for the first battle to resolve. They put up a stiff defense. Commendable, in its own way.”

“And there was no, uh, [Mages] watching the battle? Doing that thing like when the Face-Eater Moths attacked?”

Pisces paused. He shook his head slowly.

“I believe neither side wished to reveal their movements to the world. Moreover, if a [Mage] was present, their abilities would have best been suited in battle. Wistram would not be interested in ah, sending observers either. They are opposed to Flos, and a view of the battle—”

“Might make it seem like Tiqr was being attacked by a bunch of people who just want to invade it?”

“Precisely. Well, and there is the possibility of embarrassment. No ruler wants that. Tiqr lost, obviously. However, if they had a moment or two of victory?”

Pisces flicked his fingers as if to indicate how embarrassing that might be. He trailed off, absently working his way down the list of battles. Erin stared at the first entry.

Nerrhavia’s forces meet a joint-army led by Savere and Nerrhavia at the edges of the Reen Plains. Both forces withdraw at sundown.



—-



The Reen Plains echoed with voices. Screaming. [Soldiers] met in the dirt and grass, struggling, stabbing at each other, slashing, pulling back. Colliding.

Blood ran down from the Humans. Drowned People bled the same color of red. Even the String People bled. But they grabbed at their limbs, retreating, sewing themselves closed. And their ranks held steady as Savere’s irregulars dueled Tiqr’s warriors on the edges of the fray.

“Push them! Send the 5th Hemp battalion forwards!”

[General] Thelican stood atop his mobile command center. He scowled, watching with a cup of water in hand as someone fanned cool air towards him. He drank, his eyes alight on the battle.

Tiqr’s forces had met the bulk of Nerrhavia’s army. And despite the tough Hemp foot-soldiers possessing superior numbers and gear, they were stalemated. Tiqr’s colorful warriors were doing well, withdrawing and charging, refusing to hold their lines.

But that wasn’t what gave them their strength. Thelican saw darting shapes amid the soldiers. And then a bloom of magic. Not fire; the Stitch-Mages didn’t use that element. But Tiqr would. Their [Mages] were trying to set fire to the String People. It was difficult to do to the thick skins of the String Warriors of the Hemp caste, but it was still possible.

And String People feared fire. Even this far away, Thelican felt a lurch of fear. It almost made him miss the snarling animals that leapt, taking advantage of the flinching [Soldiers] as they backed away from the fire. A hyena bore down a String Warrior, powerful jaws tearing, and then bounded away as a warrior of Tiqr stabbed the String Warrior through the neck.

Dead. Thelican felt nothing for the fallen Hemp warrior, for all that beheading was death for a String Person if they weren’t saved immediately. He was more concerned with the battle.

“Where is Savere’s [Commander]? Find them! Order a [Daring Charge] there—overrun those damn animals before they can pull back!”

One of the [Tacticians] did so. The Stitch-Warriors surged forwards, charging at the retreating hyenas. Thelican scowled as the animals darted into the ranks of Tiqr’s soldiers and they took the charge instead.

They had so many animals. Thelican wasn’t a stranger to wardogs or so on, but Tiqr’s armies were using hyenas. He had seen a lion fighting before it was brought down—the [Beast Tamers] were an actual standing force in their military. It made fighting them—tricky.

But he had yet to unleash Nerrhavia’s dreaded chariots. Thelican knew his chariots were itching to move in, but he wanted the right moment. He waited, turning to see a [Rider] bearing down on him. His escort drew their swords, but Thelican lifted one hand.

“Let her pass.”

He looked disapprovingly at Savere’s [Commander], a woman. It was apparently the Siren of Tide’s wish that all her officers be female. The woman spat as she climbed the dais. She grabbed a cup and drank. She’d been fighting.

“Those bastards have too many animals! What’re you waiting for? Unleash the fucking chariots! My people are getting torn apart on the wings!”

She snapped at him. Thelican bristled at her tone, and some of his guards half-unsheathed their blades. But he shook his head after a moment.

“I am intending to. Pull your wings back, [Commander]. Our chariots will take the flanks.”

“Watch out. The [Empress] is here. And she’s got those—”

The Saverian [Commander] jerked her head. Thelican smiled tightly. He saw them, waiting behind the ranks of their soldiers. Tiqr’s army had yet to unleash their trump card as well.

Grand Elephants. They were armored beasts, ridden by [Beast Tamers] and crews of archers. Some of the animals were bare of passengers, just armored with spikes on their tusks. Thelican could see the [Commander] from Savere eying them nervously. But they were a paltry number in front of his chariots.

“Send word to the First-Chariots. Order them to begin their assault. Drive from each wing—order the Hemp to charge!”

The order went out. Thelican watched with satisfaction as his chariots drove up in two wedges alongside the main ranks of his army. They were going to hit Tiqr’s forces in a classic pincer formation! Their infantry and beasts weren’t armored elites; they couldn’t stop the chariots.

And then Thelican saw Tiqr’s forces pulling back. The foot streamed backwards, the beasts racing alongside the Humans. He frowned and saw the elephants moving. They were advancing in a line. Tiqr had deployed nearly a thousand to this battle.

Only a thousand. But…Thelican paused.

“They’re moving up without support?”

“They’ll get crushed. You can take them down, right? We’re not getting near those things.”

The woman looked uneasy. Thelican paused and then snapped at his [Strategists].

“Tell the chariots to circle. Bring them down with javelins and archers! Move the Hemp forwards in pike formation!”

His army scrambled to obey. The Hemp warriors moved back, letting rows of pikes forwards along with archers. Thelican watched, uneasily. The [Commander] pointed.

“Look!”

There she was. The Empress of Beasts. She had taken to the field herself. She sat atop one of the largest elephants. The huge Grand Elephant wore silvery armor, and the Empress of Beasts was holding a javelin. Thelican frowned.

“[Seer]. Appraisal?”

“Magic. Returning. Tiqr’s heirloom—Tiqr’s Tusk.”

“Hm. I want her taken down. Surround her—bring her in. Twenty thousand gold to the chariot that captures her alive!”

Even the Saverian woman looked up at that bounty. Thelican settled back, sitting down in the chair. His army was moving forwards, bracing for the charge. He felt a flutter of unease and dismissed it. It was fine.

The first rain of arrows struck the Grand Elephants from afar. Archers drew back and loosed. The elephants and riders both screamed, and Thelican smiled. But—he saw arrows embedding themselves in the outer hide of the elephants or even bouncing off. And the riders, experienced, were taking shelter behind cover built into their saddles for that purpose. He scowled.

“Order the [Archers] to use [Piercing Shot]—”

Across the battlefield, the Empress of Beasts raised her spear. Nsiia’s face was covered by a mask of carved elephant bone. She saw the warriors of Nerrhavia drawing back for another hail of arrows. The Stitch-Warriors were braced, safe behind a line of spears and pikes. The chariots were waiting. She pointed forwards and screamed one word.

“Charge.”

Beneath her, Thef raised his trunk and blew. The sound was echoed a thousand times. Tiqr’s elephants raced forwards, bellowing. They came straight at the foot soldiers, at the chariots, ignoring the arrows, the pikes.

“[Bodies of Iron]!”

Vasraf bellowed behind her. Nsiia threw her spear, saw it go through a line of Hemp warriors. It flew back towards her and she braced, grabbing it. Thef charged. The spears were aimed at his unprotected underbelly. But the skill had turned his thick hide to iron. And the Nerrhavian forces had made another mistake. They had brought horse-killers. Boar-spears, even.

Not elephant killers. Thef swung his head and the first rank disappeared. Nsiia saw a figure flying past her head, twisted, threw her spear. Ahead of her, an [Archer Captain] fell, headless. Vasraf loosed an arrow from his bow and a magical explosion tore ranks of Stitch-Soldiers apart.

And Thef charged. Straight through the first rank, the second. He lowered his head and his tusks came up. Nsiia and Vasraf held on, and more bodies landed around her. The elephant was still running. His feet crushed warriors into paste. He wasn’t stopping.

“Dead gods.”

The first charge had gone straight through the ranks of Hemp warriors. The elephants had gone through the pikes like—Thelican looked around. Three of the smaller elephants had gone down. Some were injured, but the rest were charging forwards. One of his [Strategists] made a strangled noise.

“The chariots—”

“Drive them in! Ignore the Hemp! Stop that charge!”

On the battlefield, the order was unnecessary. The chariots were already moving, cutting off the elephant’s backs. [Chariot Drivers] drove their horses closer as their passengers threw javelins and lashed out with blades, shot bows, aiming at the elephants. Nsiia saw and pointed.

“Destroy them!”

Vasraf blew a horn and half the elephants turned. They charged, some catching chariots and pulverizing the riders and carriages. But the rest were pulling out of range, moving around the slower giants. Vasraf blew another horn.

Among the foot soldiers, one of Tiqr’s [Strategists] pointed. She aimed at a flank of elephants charging a circling group of chariots keeping their distance.

“[Rapid Acceleration].”

The elephants sped up. First-Chariot Bereid looked up as the first elephant aimed straight at his chariot. He raised an enchanted javelin, desperately ordering his driver to dodge. Too late. He looked up into a huge face, a screaming mouth.

“Nerrhavia’s—”

He disappeared.

“Hit those elephants! All battalions, loose!”

“Sir, our soldiers are—”

“Loose! Stitch-Warriors fear no arrows!”

The [Captains] were desperately ordering their archers to fire. But the elephants were charging at them. General Thelican watched in disbelief. His neat formations were disappearing. The elephants just wouldn’t stop. Even horses had to halt after hitting infantry. But the elephants just rammed through them. Savere’s [Commander] was shouting.

“They’re pushing with their army!”

“Then push back! Bring up the reserves! [Mages], concentrate on those elephants! Bring them down one at a time!”

Thelican roared in a fury. He saw the Empress of Beasts screaming atop her mount, her mask of bone turning her face into a horrific visage.

“Bring her down!”

Arrows flew. Javelins struck Thef, breaking past his armor. Magefire was hitting her beloved friend. Nsiia could hear him screaming. She was screaming too. But neither stopped. They kept coming. She threw her spear and it went through a [Mage]. Then she turned.

“Retreat! Healing!”

The words turned the ranks of elephants. The [Riders] leapt from their positions, tearing at satchels of potions. They began splashing them on the elephants, some feeding the liquid into trunks. And the elephants stampeded back, healing, as Tiqr’s foot charged.

Nsiia did not do the same. She just bent low, hugging Thef. And her skin was torn, her arms and legs and body broken, stabbed in dozens of places. She reached for the potion Vasraf handed her and drank it. And her wounds began to close.

Below her, Thef’s wounds healed with the same rapidity. He raised his trunk and blew a furious call. Nsiia patted him. As he bled, she bled. As he healed—

“[Sympathetic Healing].”

She looked back. General Thelican stared at her. He slowly sat back down.

Of course. You could heal elephants. And the [Beast Tamers]—he watched as the battle rejoined. The Saverian [Commander] was licking her lips. One of Thelican’s [Strategists] looked at him very nervously.

“Orders, [General]?”

The Stitch-[General] paused. And then his voice was calm. Measured.

“This is the report I will be tending Queen Yisame. Tiqr’s vanguard is yet considerable. I would prefer to surround them and wear them down with a joint-force. Their main force are the Grand Elephants and their riders. They give Tiqr a powerful vanguard, even outnumbered. We must slowly kill each one to prevent them healing. When they are gone, Tiqr’s hammer is gone. Compose a message to that effect.”

The [Strategist] nodded silently. A slave rushed forwards and Thelican turned.

“Additionally—I request the usage of the Named Adventurer, Alked Fellbow. Consult the [Quartermaster]. Arm our best [Archers] with poisoned arrows. Our [Javelineers] on chariots likewise. The Hemp will advance using pole arms. Pike formations. Withdraw the 1st and 3rd divisions. Move forwards the 8th, the 9th, and the 10th. Commander Calin, Savere’s forces will supplement ours. I assume your irregulars have poisons?”

“You’re going to keep fighting after that?”

Commander Calin pointed at the carnage, her face disbelieving. Thelican frowned.

“The chariots were a loss. But the foot were only Hemp. Tiqr’s army will tire. Mine has yet to bleed. We will be wearing down their elephants first. This was one setback. The battle is far from over.”

He sat back down, deliberately took a cup of water and drained it. And he did not look at the Empress of Beasts. She was riding down the ranks of her warriors, screaming as she held her spear aloft. And they roared, and the animals howled.

They charged again, like thunder. The Reen Plains ran with blood. The String Warriors turned to thread. And they fell. Flesh, thread. The dead.



—-



“They’re stalemated across these battle lines. Multiple armies fighting, forcing Tiqr’s forces to split or cede ground. The main forces are fighting and retreating here.”

Pisces pointed. Erin nodded. The other armies were advancing. Surrounding the opponent, like an army of pawns. They couldn’t jump or do much that was special, but they could bring down even a queen. Slowly, one by one.

But—slowly. She looked at the parchment.

“It’s six days since the fighting began and they only got that far? They were here when they started fighting.”

She pointed to a position on the map, Reen Fields, barely past the current lines. Pisces nodded.

“Tiqr is posing a sturdy defense. A systematic withdrawal; guerilla tactics. That is what their troops excel at, given their animal components. We can infer that from the reading. But look here.”

Another line.

“Battle at the Yov Oasis. This time between Deimos’ army and Tiqr’s. Tiqr holds it. The Laughing Brigade confirmed spotted on the front. They begin winning some battles. Wait, who are the Laughing Brigade? Is that a mercenary group or something?”

“No. A unit. A royal force. It is a Skill of the Empress of Beasts.”

“…How?”

Pisces paused to explain the concept of a unit to Erin. She had never met the Darksky Riders, but she got it after a minute.

“Units. Huh. So they’re like, elites?”

“Not quite. Say rather that they all possess an ability granted to them by nature of being in their unit.”

“I don’t get it.”

Pisces drummed a hand on the table.

“Units are…special existences. They are granted power just for existing. Some have magical abilities each [Soldier] may call upon. For instance? The ability to ignite their blades at will, regardless of the enchantment on the blade or their own magical ability.”

The [Innkeeper] frowned.

“What, any time they want?”

“That’s right.”

“Any [Soldier]. In the unit.”

“The Scorchblades were a Terandrian force numbering six thousand who all possessed that ability. Ordinary commoners without a shred of magic inducted into the unit could ignite their blades for twenty minutes at a time. Not just in battle. A unit can be astoundingly versatile or powerful. There are limits. But it is essentially a free Skill granted to them simply be being part of that unit.”

Erin considered this. The hair on her neck tried to rise.

“That’s not fair.”

The [Necromancer] shrugged, trying not to look too jealous.

“That would be the difference between a [King] and lesser classes. Royalty provides benefits. Of course, I have heard of [Commander]-type classes gaining such Skills. Even examples of, high-level [Captains] who could lead a unit themselves. But a [King] may have multiple such forces among their Skills. The King of Destruction notably had three.”

Erin whistled. She was beginning to see why people didn’t like this Flos guy. She looked down at the parchment.

“This Laughing Brigade. What can they do?”

Pisces frowned. He raised a finger and consulted the notes.

“…I don’t know.”

“Are they funny?”



—-



The Laughing Brigade struck during the night. Demios’ army was resting after a day of skirmishing. To his credit, [General] Heic had deployed sentries and fortified the camp. It still did no good.

The first sound that broke the night was laughter. Giggling. It was coming from the [Sentries]. Their reliefs found them standing at their posts, laughing uncontrollably. It was uncontrollably chuckling. And their howling, hysterical laughter. They laughed uncontrollably as they tried to blow into the warning horns.

The warning came too late. General Heic awoke to the sounds of laughter. Loud, harsh, echoing through his camp. He struggled out of his bedding as his slaves found him his armor.

The camp was under attack. Dark shapes and bounding animals tore through the camp. The laughter was everywhere. It wore at Heic’s ears. He felt at them, shouting questions. And then he realized the laughter wasn’t just auditory. It was in his head.

He couldn’t hear anything. That was it. His hands came away, bleeding. The laughter was all he heard. He saw [Soldiers] fighting, unorganized, some even attacking each other in the darkness. Their [Officers] couldn’t restore order with their voices.

And the laughter. A hyena leapt out of the darkness, bringing down a man. Others attacked the camels, fighting alongside the Humans who leapt forwards, attacking and retreating in the confusion. They were laughing too. But it wasn’t laughter. It was mocking. A hyena’s high-pitched cackle. It drove at Heic’s ears. He screamed orders, grabbing his sword and donning his armor.

The Laughing Brigade fell back as dawn rose. And they left their dead among Deimos’ wounded. Not enough, but they had died, hyenas and men. It was only a Skill, a trick. But the laughter stayed in Heic’s ears, long after they had left. And no one in his camp laughed, or smiled long after that.



—-



“Hit-and-run tactics, I see. They might have been quite effective; you see here this gap stating that the fighting did not advance past Tiqr’s borders for the first six days? Ultimately, however, they could only slow the inevitable. It was one unit, one nation against nearly a dozen others. And some of them had their specialist forces deployed too. Note this line.”

Time was accelerating. Erin had heard of the war progressing. Now she saw the lines break in places. Pisces calmly noted dates, showing her the coalition advancing slowly.

“Illivere’s army breaks lines; Savere’s [Queen] takes to the front. Lines broken.”

“What’s so special about Savere’s Queen? Does she have a unit?”

Pisces frowned.

“None as far as I know. Her army is mostly irregular. What makes Savere dangerous is their [Queen] herself. She commands a very powerful water magic.”



—-



“The Illivere Federation must send two hundred more Golems to the front. We have lost nearly as many. However. Report to General Thelican that Tiqr has lost eighty-six Grand Elephants this day.”

Femithain leaned on a staff. The words rasped in his throat. For all he hadn’t taken a single blow, he felt—wounded. Armsmaster Dellic nodded. He moved slowly, assessing the battlefield.

Tiqr and Illivere had met in battle. And Illivere had won. But what a victory. Femithain looked across the battlefield. All he saw was gore.

Illivere’s Golems stood silent, unmoving after the battle. The [Artificers] were tending to them, repairing cracks in their bodies, replacing entire limbs. Some Golems couldn’t be salvaged. Many were broken, the command spells shattered to the extent that it would be easier to make a new one. And most had fallen to—Femithain saw a fallen mound, grey, mixed with red.

An elephant. It had died ramming into a stone Golem. The Golem was snapped in half. But the elephant’s skull was crushed. More had died, their riders and the animal falling as the Golems bore it down. Femithain’s two Steel Golems had killed four themselves.

The Magus-Crafter felt no joy in it. He looked at the dead elephants and spat bile out of his mouth. He turned.

“What news from Savere’s front?”

“Magus-Crafter. The Siren of Tides has pushed through Tiqr’s lines.”

A weary [Mage-Artificer] raised her head. Femithain paused.

“Nothing else?”

“She killed the elephants. And the [Soldiers]. Animals too. [Water Shot]. A tidal wave, apparently. Her [Pirates] can fight in the tide.”

Femithain nodded.

“But the elephants. How…?”

“She drowned them. Encased them in water.”

The [Mage] shook her head. Femithain paused.

“Cruel.”

That was all he said. But he looked at the ones who had died here and couldn’t say anything more. At last, Dellic came back.

“Magus-Crafter. General Thelican sends his most sincere regards.”

“I suppose he does.”

Cynically, Femithain wondered if Illivere and Savere had done better than Nerrhavia in these two engagements. He leaned on his staff, shook his head.

“We will wait for reinforcements before pushing in. Instruct Illivere to march the golems without pause to our location.”

“Magus-Crafter. Will we see more fighting like today’s? Those elephants—”

One of the younger [Artificers] began hesitantly. He was nearly silenced by Dellic, but Femithain shook his head. Today’s battle had been—gruesome. Illivere’s Golems had gone to war with a huge wing of Tiqr’s elephants. And despite losing nearly half their animals, Tiqr had managed to do an incredible amount of damage.

“Possibly, Artificer Azef. But that determination I will discuss with General Thelican. Tiqr’s forces are slowly reducing in number, however. Their war animals cannot be replaced like our Golems.”

“Yes, Magus-Crafter. It—it seems to be a shame.”

Femithain didn’t respond. He looked at the dead elephants. And he remembered seeing one on parade. The Empress of Beasts riding hers.

“Repair the Golems, [Artificers]. Illivere will need them in the days to come.”



—-



“Battle at Be’neld Oasis. Tiqr retreats. That was ten days ago, right?”

Erin looked up. Pisces nodded. Tiqr had just lost another oasis. And they were in full retreat, trying to guard the land around their capital city. Erin shook her head.

“How do they keep fighting? Don’t their armies get…killed?”

Pisces shook his head.

“I suspect as the war winds on, more citizens of Tiqr’s cities join their army. They are either conscripted or volunteer. They would be low-level, but they would fill the losses in Tiqr’s armies.”

“But they don’t have [Soldier] levels. I mean, if you went into Liscor and got like, a thousand Selys’, they’d be weak. Right?”

Pisces’ lips twitched at the idea. But then he shook his head.

“I believe this can be attributed to the Counter-level Effect.”

“The what? Are you making that up?”

“Not at all. It is a well-known fact that during war or in disadvantageous conflicts, the defending side will level faster than the superior aggressors. Zel Shivertail was one example of it.”

“Oh.”

The young women went quiet. Then she looked up. Her interest in Tiqr’s war had stopped being a silly exercise to pass the time. Now it felt—

“But that only works if they’re losing.”

The [Necromancer] straightened his robes, pushing his bowl back.

“True. For every new [Soldier] who survives the fighting, dozens will perish. This is an act of desperation. And see. Not everyone is fighting. This is where some of the other nations take part.”

He tapped another line. Erin read it. And this time—she could imagine it.

Tiqr’s citizens fleeing conflict shelter at Pomle. Standoff at Pomle’s borders between Savere, Nerrhavia. Pursuit not attempted. Pomle continues to accept fleeing citizens.



—-



Orjin, the Strongest of Pomle, stood at the borders of Pomle. At least, the borders in any way that mattered. Sometimes they changed, but this time, the ring of colored stones that connected two canyon walls meant more than an arbitrary concept.

It was a boundary. And the two small armies that had come had halted a stone’s throw in front of it. They both bore banners he recognized—well, one did. The other looked more like [Bandits] to Orjin.

Savere’s raiders. But the second army, led by a group of chariots were distinctly Stitch-People. Nerrhavia’s Fallen. Orjin counted.

About six thousand from Nerrhavia. Two thousand from Savere. They would account for a good amount of Pomle’s population alone. They had been moving fast; they were all mounted. Pursuing Tiqr’s fleeing citizens.

They were behind Orjin. Several thousand…people. Many carrying packs, some without anything. They’d nearly collapsed after passing through Pomle’s borders. Now, it was a standoff. Orjin stood at the border as one of Nerrhavia’s [Commanders] called out cautiously to him.

“By the order of Nerrhavia’s Fallen, we request that Pomle gives up Tiqr’s citizens! They are formal enemies to Nerrhavia!”

There was a bark of laughter, and then the [Raid Leader] from Savere rode forwards. She glared at both the String-Warrior and Orjin.

“Those are our captives. Savere takes them, by order of the Siren of Tides. Move aside!”

Orjin didn’t reply to either leader. He was still looking at the refugees. The [Martial Artist] stood, his arms folded, his posture perfect. The First-Chariot hesitated. Savere’s [Raid Leader] spat.

“Hey! You! Muscles-for-brains! Did you hear me?”

Orjin didn’t even turn his head. He’d been standing like this for about ten minutes. Thinking. He had no doubt that Savere and Nerrhavia were after the people here for one reason: slaves. There was no benefit otherwise. Well, perhaps they intended to kill them or ransom them, use them against Tiqr.

“Hey!”

Orjin turned his head at last. The woman was glaring at him. She was in fact, a Drowned Woman, half her body armored. And one arm looked like—Orjin frowned. Half-shrimp? A beady eye and antennae-like whisker twitched at him. The other half of her face was snarling teeth.

“We have two armies here. Hand them over. Now.”

The Nerrhavian officer looked uneasy. It was true. Both armies were armed for a fight and they outnumbered the few warriors. But he also knew why Pomle was independent. His eyes flicked behind Orjin.

Pomle’s warriors stood silently in the gap that sheltered the nation of martial artists from the rest of the world. The canyons were stiff, tall, and there was a natural choke-point that Orjin held. Some of the warriors stood on the cliffs, armed with spears or slings or just their bare hands and rocks.

The rest were lined up behind him. Barely a hundred [Martial Artists] and [Warrior] classes. But they had the high ground and the Nerrhavian [Commander] knew it. He was more intelligent than the Savere [Raid Leader], or at least, more aware of Pomle’s legend. He waited while she swore at him, losing her patience. And Orjin just thought.

Not about what to do next. More—about how he’d attack if it came to a reply. He’d probably have to split Nerrhavia’s charge first. It would be a nasty fight, but they could break the chariots in this pass. Reinforcements would arrive fast, but—Orjin narrowed his eyes. Yes. He could kill both leaders if they moved back. Then—straight into the chariots while the others held this ground and the refugees fled. It was a working plan.

The [Martial Artist] moved at last. Savere’s [Commander] rode back a pace and the Nerrhavian officer placed a hand on his sword. But Orjin kept his arms crossed. First, the message. He’d had to give the speech about Pomle’s peace a lot recently.

“This is Pomle. I am the Strongest of Pomle, Orjin. Thirty years ago, we claimed this land and fought every nation who tried to impose their rules on us. For thirty years, Pomle has known peace. We have little, but any who wish to train are welcome within our land. Pomle is neutral. This is our peace.”

Both leaders stared at him. Orjin went on, gesturing at the citizens huddled behind him.

“These are guests of Pomle, regardless of their identity. They have claimed Pomle’s peace. If they say they wish to train, or rest, or merely step within our boundaries, they may do so without fear.”

“Do they wish that?”

The Nerrhavian [Commander] began uncertainly. Orjin turned his head. The refugees nodded rapidly. Orjin paused.

“They say they do. Therefore, they are guests. As for your armies…”

He stared at the lines of [Soldiers] and shook his head.

“Begone. The peace of Pomle does not extend to foreign armies.”

That was it. Savere’s [Raid Leader]’s eyes bulged.

“That’s all you have to say?”

Orjin didn’t reply. He waited. She looked at the Nerrhavian commander. He was sweating.

“We have orders not to violate Pomle’s peace—”

“Bullshit. There are a hundred of them. They’re not some legendary army, just a bunch of tree-punching idiots.”

The woman rode forwards and the Nerrhavian [Commander] tensed. Orjin did not; tensing was a bad move. He was relaxed. As the woman rode forwards, he spoke.

“Step across that line and we will remind you why Pomle is free.”

She paused incredulously. And then the [Martial Artists] behind Orjin picked up the stone spears. They aimed—past her at Savere’s armies. The [Raiders] looked up as Pomle’s warriors aimed bows at them. They began to laugh. And then it died away when they realized Orjin was serious.

The Strongest of Pomle waited for the woman to move. He hadn’t moved. She was eying him, eying the line of colored stones. He could see she wanted to dare it. But—she might have had [Dangersense]. Certainly, some of her [Raiders] did, because they were whispering among their ranks. And the eager attitude among her force vanished. Some even began looking over their shoulders.

The confidence drained out of the [Raid Leader]’s face. She looked at Orjin, assessing them, and more blood fled her hands and face. She backed up, turning her horse roughly. Then she spat on the ground and rode away. The Nerrhavian First-Chariot hesitated. But when Orjin turned to him he shook his head.

Without a word, both armies withdrew. Orjin sighed. He stared as they kicked up a dust storm as they rode away. Pomle’s warriors waited for his nod, and then walked off, returning to their tasks. Casually, as if nothing had happened. The refugees watched as Orjin walked past them, shaken.

“Excuse me! This way!”

A voice called out in the newfound silence. The refugees turned, and saw a Drake striding towards them. Salii, Pomle’s only [Receptionist], was hurrying forwards with her clipboard.

“Everyone, with me. You are quite safe now; please form an orderly line.”

“But what—”

“All questions later, please! We will bring you to one of the temporary camps. Excuse me, follow me. My name is Salii. Come to me if you have any questions or issues. That is Orjin, the Strongest of Pomle. Now—”

The people found themselves obediently shuffling after Salii before they quite knew what was happening. Orjin left the Drake to do whatever she wanted. Pomle had guests. And that was as far as he intended to deal with the matter. For that matter, most of Pomle’s warriors ignored the new influx of people. There was only one thing that concerned them, and so Orjin sighed. More work to do.

That night, Orjin sat on the ground in the darkness, waiting. It was at roughly the same spot he had been. The line of colored pebbles was still there. This time, though, he was looking down on them from a height.

The canyon’s walls were steep. High. But any [Martial Artist] could climb them. And so could a number of other classes, it seemed. Shadowy figures, dressed in black clothing to hide themselves in the night scaled the canyons. They carried blades, and they were fairly stealthy.

Not stealthy enough, though. A few had Skills; Orjin knew from the breathing that one was invisible. He was trying to locate the invisible one by their posture in the dust. The figures paused, then they crossed the line that separated Pomle from the rest of the world.

Normally that mattered little. Normally people got a second or third chance and guests, even armed ones, were welcome in Pomle. But these ones had already been warned.

The first [Martial Artist] dropped out of the skies where she had been hovering. Her [Axe Kick] shattered the skull of the invisible [Rogue] and the Garuda took wing, hunting for her next target. Orjin sighed. He’d been off on the Drowned Woman’s position. Oh well. He saw more of the properly hidden [Martial Artists] rise up.

One of them was a Dullahan armed with the crude spears of this morning. She threw the spear and it went through one of the shadowed figures and buried itself in the stomach of the next. The shocked infiltrators shouted, drew their weapons; Pomle’s warriors closed in.

It was a brisk fight. Orjin only moved once. He kicked a [Rogue] off the canyon before he could slash one of the [Martial Artists] with a blade. The man fell, screaming, and hit the ground. He survived the fall, although Orjin was sure he’d broken an arm, and got up. He ran surprisingly fast. Orjin stopped the shamefaced Garuda from going after him. Orjin looked around and shook his head.

The rest of the attack group was dead. A few [Martial Artists] had been tagged, and one might have been poisoned. The others were inspecting the injury, debating remedies. They dispersed again, a few pausing to check the bodies for valuables. Many, like Orjin, didn’t care and left them to be devoured by animals or the elements.

Savere’s [Pirates] and [Rogues] might have all the experience in the world in fighting in darkness, but Pomle’s warriors had trained for it. Orjin returned to his space near Pomle’s oasis. He found Salii waiting for him.

“Are they…?”

“Dead. One fled.”

The Drake nodded and made a note of this for some reason Orjin didn’t understand. She took a breath. Orjin was stretching before he meditated and slept.

“Orjin, this latest group was a thousand two hundred and eighteen strong. They were over five times that number when they set out; the rest were captured or killed.”

“I see.”

The Strongest of Pomle kept stretching. Salii tapped her clipboard.

“Many have failed to bring enough food. If more continue arriving, Pomle will be out of food soon.”

The Strongest of Pomle paused. That was a problem. However—he looked around.

“It is not Pomle’s duty to feed these people. Nor can we.”

It would mean Pomle’s warriors would have to go hunting as the oasis’ resources were depleted. Perhaps even the water would be used up. That would be an inconvenience, but one Pomle’s people could handle. The refugees on the other hand, well, they’d starve. Orjin saw Salii pause.

“I’m aware of that, Orjin. However—I can handle it. I think. There are people among the refugees with useful classes and Skills.”

“Can you feed twice Pomle’s numbers? How?”

Orjin was fairly certain Salii couldn’t make food appear out of the thin air. And she would need to. But the [Secretary] only tapped her clipboard.

“Trading. Scavenging. Organization. Orjin, let me try. If you’re the strongest [Martial Artist] in Pomle, I’m the greatest [Secretary] in all the Walled Cities. Give me access to Pomle’s stores and I’ll barter for food and clothing and everything else we need and secure the rest.”

The boast made Orjin smile. He paused, and then nodded to Salii.

“Do what you wish. You created Pomle’s stores to begin with.”

“Thank you.”

She smiled and left. Orjin wondered if she’d succeed. Perhaps. She was certainly good at ordering people around. But if she didn’t, Pomle would endure. The [Martial Artists] had survived times when the oasis had run dry, starvation. It was part of their training.

However, one thing did keep Orjin up as he tried to meditate, calm himself and order his thoughts before he slept. He kept staring west. He could smell blood on the wind. And it made him restless. But he held his ground, stilled his thoughts. This was not his war.

Yet, he was the Strongest of Pomle. It was a duty. One no one who truly belonged to Pomle wanted, but it was important. He had to guard Pomle. That was the sum of his duties, and Orjin had always thought of it as simple. Remove murderers and those who caused trouble. Kill monsters, sometimes people. Organize Pomle’s warriors in case of an attack.

But what if an army came? Pomle would fight, of course. But this war bothered Orjin. All these other nations attacking Tiqr, which bordered Pomle. They had come for Tiqr as a result of the peace he had helped to offer. Tiqr had done nothing wrong as Orjin understood it. If they came for Tiqr, would those same armies one day march on Pomle?

He was no [King]. But those thoughts weighed heaviest of all. Orjin sat in silence late into the night. He stared ahead blankly. And then he realized there was another invisible intruder in camp he’d somehow missed. It had been a mistake to sneak up on him of all the others. The person might be [Muffled], but they smelled of blood. Orjin got up with a sigh.



—-



Tiqr was falling. City by city, part by part. Like a plague, the invading armies took it apart, slowly working their way to the capital city. Now Tiqr’s armies were retreating every battle, moving further and further back.

No one had come to help them. And the other nations were continuing onwards. Why not? They were winning.

“The nation of Reim continues to refrain from movements on any border. Only naturally.”

Pisces read the note, which seemed to emphasize…nothing. But nothing was apparently significant with the King of Destruction. Erin read one little addendum.

King of Destruction appears on southern border with Gazi the Omniscient and Mars the Illusionist. No movement. Nerrhavia reinforces border.

“Gazi.”

But he’d done nothing.



—-



By now, the jeering from Nerrhavia’s side was background noise to Mars. But today the chanting went silent. The Stitch-Warriors froze. And their [Commander] sent word back on [Message] spell, shouting orders. They formed a double line, setting themselves.

He was here. The King of Destruction. Flos Reimarch regarded the force across his borders. He looked at Mars. His expression was intense. He was not happy.

News of Tiqr reached Reim as well as the rest of the world. Now—Mars looked around. Flos had not ridden here unaccompanied. Three hundred [Riders] flanked him, and Gazi, her main eye closed, had followed him. Flos jerked his head at Mars.

“My [Vanguard]. Ride with me.”

Nerrhavia’s forces reacted as Flos began to ride across the border of Reim. They pivoted, setting themselves, watching as Flos rode—not towards them but perpendicular. Just…riding.

He rode with Mars, Gazi, Venith, and Maresar at his back. Two of his Seven. Three hundred [Riders] followed him. And Nerrhavia’s army was silent.

If he charged, it would be forty-to-one. If you added the infantry, then thirteen-to-one. Still a vast difference in numbers. Some began to jeer, taunting the King of Destruction. He turned his head and they fell silent.

If he charged he’d forswear every oath. Fight a battle against thousands of Nerrhavia’s elite. The King of Destruction rode, turning his head, regarding his land. And Nerrhavia’s borders. In the distance were the garrisons, fortifications of actual stone. Beyond them, cities, garrisons of hundreds of thousands of warriors.

The King of Destruction paused. And he turned his horse towards Nerrhavia. For a moment he leaned on the saddle. And he stared past the army on the border. Then he turned and rode back the way he’d come. Without another word.

None of Nerrhavia’s warriors made a sound after that. The two armies withdrew further in silence. Mars, who remained, stared across the vast distance and leaned on the horse she’d borrowed. She heard nothing from the other army for a long time. They could have laughed. They could have jeered or taunted him. Her [King]. But if they had, neither she nor they were certain he wouldn’t have charged. He probably wouldn’t. But the world still watched.

“Remember that, you arrogant silk handkerchiefs.”

Mars spat in the dust. But she turned. He wouldn’t have charged. Her [King] had made up his mind. He just hated it.



—-



Tiqr was falling. And now, Erin could see it. Almost. In the dry, factual sentences, an entire empire breaking apart. People fleeing. An army reeling from—what? Defeat? No, just breaking under too many casualties. Giving ground. Pulling back. The citizens fleeing.

“Tiqr’s alliance with the local [Druid] factions collapses. Mass exodus west towards the Killale Steppes.”

Mrsha looked up at Erin. She was sitting on Erin’s lap, now. Watching Erin and Pisces’ faces more than understanding the abstract concepts. Erin looked at Pisces.

“I didn’t know they had [Druids]. Aren’t they solitary?”

“Some. But Tiqr is a place of animals. Why wouldn’t they have [Druids]?”

“They left yesterday. When I was at Esthelm.”

“Yes.”



—-



Empress Nsiia sat on her throne. She had not eaten. She had not moved. General Vasraf had taken to the front, to lead a retreat. She didn’t rise as the congregations of [Druids] entered the throne room. Nor when they told her she was leaving.

Thef was dead. Slain. Alked Fellbow, the Named Adventurer, had brought him down. Nsiia only moved once. And it was to look up. Wildkeeper Jvaile looked at her. The woman was a [Druid]. First of her circle.

“You are leaving.”

“Yes, Empress. We cannot remain. Half our circle has perished in this war. We have given all we can. No more. We are leaving.”

The Wildkeeper bowed. The other [Druids] knelt. Nsiia looked at her. Her throat worked; she coughed. Dry from lack of water. A servant hurried forwards and she drank from the bowl. She coughed again.

“Where?”

“The Killale Steppes. The Garuda tribes will allow our presence. Further still, perhaps. Empress. We beg your pardon—”

“Good. Take my people with you.”

Nsiia saw the Wildkeeper looked up. The Empress of Beasts moved. She looked out of her throne room.

“The herds too. The young. The elephants. All the animals. Take them with you. All that will go.”

Wildkeeper Jvaile hesitated.

“You intend to keep fighting, Empress?”

“Yes. This is Tiqr. We will not yield.”

The [Druid] hesitated. She was no politician.

“I have heard it said Savere extended an offer of surrender to Tiqr.”

“Yes. And Nerrhavia. Our surrender would be absolute. We would give our people to slavery.”

The [Empress]’s eyes flashed. The Siren would see her in chains, groveling. Nerrhavia’s Queen was little better. The Wildkeeper bowed her head. She and Nsiia were of one mind of her answer to that.

“Empress, this war cannot be won. The herds have fallen.”

“Yes.”

Thef. Was. Dead. The [Druid] paused.

“We will take the young. There are Grand Elephants young, and regular ones. They will not end. But—Empress—”

She looked up, meeting Nsiia’s hollow gaze.

“—the elephants have seen the blood. They know the death.”

Nsiia nodded. Elephants remembered.

“The elephant’s memory is long as ours. Longer, sometimes, I think. This is their home. And they will remember it forever.”

The [Druid] whispered. Some of her fellow Wildkeepers were stirring. They had wept for the dead of Tiqr. Animals. Ah—they had died for their home along with the people.

“Just so. But this war has changed them. Many of the young have felt the death of their kin. If they grow to maturity, they will be wild. They will remember death, Empress. Death, and what people have brought.”

“Mankillers.”

Another [Druid] murmured. He waited for a response. But all the Empress of Beasts did was reach for her side.

The war-mask was cracked. Fellbow had aimed for her head as well. Slowly, Nsiia put it on and rose. She looked down as Jvaile shuddered.

“The herds remember death? Then they remember it properly, Wildkeeper. As I live it. Tiqr will not forget these days so easily. I only hope that some remain to remember it. Go.”

They left. Nsiia walked through her throne room. Her honor guard fell in beside her. Over half of them had fallen. Only a few war elephants remained to Tiqr. The army had been beaten back again and again. Now the last citizens were choosing to fight.

Nsiia stood at steppes of her palace. She spoke from behind her bone mask, looking at each of her warriors in turn.

“If you wish it, you may leave with my blessing. If any so ask, let them go now.”

None of them moved. Nsiia nodded. She looked around.

“This is our home. We cannot leave it like the [Druids] do. For this land had been our home. It is our home. Can we surrender? Give ourselves to slavery? Let all that Tiqr has built fade without fighting to the last?”

No. In the silence, Nsiia raised her hand. She could see the Wildkeepers moving. They had already prepared a caravan. Better they go now. The [Empress of Beasts] raised her hand.

“[Empire: Wild Riot].”



—-



A detachment of Nerrhavian [Soldiers] paused as they patrolled Yov Oasis. This area was far from the front lines by now. And it had been taken, almost completely intact. Tiqr’s army had refused to fight near the oasis, refused to destroy it.

All the better for Nerrhavia. It would be some work establishing a foothold in Tiqr, but this oasis was worth more than gold to the Chandrarian kingdoms. It was a source of water, vital and precious. Which was why Nerrhavia had left a garrison here, to claim it before the end of the battle.

The [Commander] was still alert for guerilla strikes, though, for all even they had been pushed back to around Tiqr’s capital. He sat on horseback, talking to another [Mage] of the Silk caste. The [Mage] was frowning at the water.

“Something wrong?”

The [Mage] glanced up at the alert tone in the [Commander]’s voice. He chuckled and shook his head.

“Nothing magical, [Commander]. It is simply—I have never seen the quail-birds flying in that formation.”

He pointed. The Stitch-[Commander] looked and saw there were indeed a number of small quail flying in an odd spiral around the oasis. He frowned.

“Is that truly unusual?”

“Well, only insofar—”

The [Mage] got no further. Both Stitch-Men felt the Skill pass through the earth. It was a shudder, a lurch in his stomach. The [Commander] looked around.

“What was—”

Then he heard the shrieks. The quail dove, beaks open. They flew down, attacking his patrol. The [Commander] was so stunned at first he didn’t bring his shield up. Then the first beaks tore at his flesh, tearing at the silk of his body, drawing blood and pecking flesh that turned to thread.

“Dead gods! What’s—”

“Animal attack! Kill the birds!”

One of his officers screamed, and the Stitch-Warriors drew their blades. They began slashing at the birds, but they were everywhere and the blades were useless against so many. The [Commander] screamed at the [Mage].

“Cast a spell! Cast a spell!”

The Stitch-[Mage] was trying. He raised a hand and lightning burst outwards. Dozens of birds screamed and the lightning crackled off the [Commander]’s armor.

“[Lightning Bolt]! [Stone Arm—”

The [Mage]’s voice cut off in a scream of agony. The [Commander] turned. He didn’t see where the [Mage] was until he tripped over the fallen Stitch-Man. He was dead. His face was torn away, his eyeballs removed. The [Commander] raised his shield.

“Form up! Backs to each other!”

His warriors did. They slashed at the sky, shielding their eyes. Slowly, the birds fell. The last of them lay on the ground, and the Stitch-Warriors stomped, cursing. More than one was eyeless. That was only a temporary injury, but their faces had been torn apart. They would need to be sewn together.

But mostly, everyone was shaken. The [Commander] stared around. What had happened? Some—powerful [Druid] spell? A [Beast Master] nearby? Then he heard a shout.

“Commander! The horses have gone mad!”

“One patrol is under attack! From—termites!”

“The birds—”

“One of the pet parrots took the eye of—”

It was coming from across the camp. No—across Tiqr. [Messages] were pouring in of horses going insane, birds attacking—even the insects! The [Commander] listened, and then began to give orders.

“[Mages]. Any swarm of animals you see, destroy at range with spells. Understood? Kill every animal you see. Every last one.”

He shuddered. The Stitch-Warriors stared at him. But the [Commander] didn’t have anything else to say. Tiqr had gone mad. The Empress of Beasts—



—-



Stood alone. She watched as the last of the animals fled. Not all of them had listened to her Skill. But those that weren’t were fleeing. It was a choice. It was always a choice.

Like this one. She stood on her palace, addressing her soldiers. They were fortifying the gates and walls of her city, trying to build them up. This would be their last stand. The war elephants blew their trumpeting calls, screams of fury. But not yet. Not yet. The other nations would surround this place. And then it would be the truest end.

They wanted her to surrender. Savere’s Siren had threats of how Nsiia would live. Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia offered more amicable terms. Nsiia left the letters unopened. They had made their decision. And so had she.

“For generations, this has been our land. When he rode through Tiqr with his armies and a force large enough to topple nations, my father sat here. On this very throne. And he dared the King of Destruction to take Tiqr, for we would bleed him to the last. Instead, the King of Destruction offered us an alliance and we followed him to war because he left our home ours. Do we bend now, and let them tear this land apart, each nation devouring a piece? Will they leave anything that is us?”

Her army stood before her. Waiting, knowing the answer. Nsiia shook her head. She raised her headdress. Only the Roc’s feather was left. One last battle.

“Never. Let them crawl over the dead to claim this place. We do not bow to these traitorous monsters. We offered no war. All we did was remember friendship. So let us die. Tiqr will be empty before it falls.”

They screamed at her words. And Nsiia raised her spear. Soon. These other nations would count this victory in the blood of their own. Tiqr would fight to the last before it fell.

But it was falling.



—-



The end of the updates was sobering. Erin sat at the table and read the last lines in silence with Pisces.



Tiqr’s army retreats to the capital, Oliphant. Illivere’s army begins a siege. Savere’s army moves to reinforce. Nerrhavia’s army moves to reinforce.

The Laughing Brigade is defeated in battle by a joint attack led by Savere and Nerrhavian forces supplemented by soldiers from Deimos and Relaaquil.

[Druids] fleeing Tiqr confirmed to have left the border. Large number of animals and people in company. No pursuit given.



That was today. Today, the siege had begun. Erin looked at Pisces. He raised his brows. Reached for a last slice of blue fruit.

It was breakfast. And all this war was so far away. Erin was now caught up on Tiqr. But what happened next? She stared at the parchment.

“So we don’t know what happens next?”

“Presumably, the other armies would initiate the final battle. If not today, then certainly tomorrow. Tiqr will no doubt have a final stand, but they lack the ah, position for a protracted siege. Few walls, you see, no choke points. I imagine today or tomorrow we will receive news of Tiqr’s fall. Quite interesting that the King of Destruction never intervened. But in the end, I suppose it was not expedient.”

The [Necromancer] sighed as he chewed and swallowed. Erin nodded slowly. She blinked down, and then frowned.

“Hold on, we’ve missed something.”

“What?”

Pisces blinked. Erin pointed at a little note at the very bottom of the parchment.

“It says there was an addendum to the report about the Laughing Brigade. But it was extra and you didn’t pay it. See?”

The young man leaned over the parchment.

“An addendum at extra cost? They bothered to write this, but not include the actual information? What did I pay for? I specifically requested all information! The Mage’s Guild does not decide what is superfluous to my interests!”

Pisces was outraged. He stood up. Erin stood up with him.

“Yeah! What happened with them? Can we find out?”

“I intend to.”

The [Necromancer] straightened his robes huffily. He stalked towards the door to Liscor and Erin followed him. Lyonette looked up.

“Erin. Where are you going? I need you in the kitchen.”

The [Innkeeper]’s shoulders hunched. She looked over her shoulder and then hurried Pisces out the door.

“Ican’thearyougottagoI’mwithPiscesbye!”

“Erin!”

Lyonette got up, but Erin had already swung the door closed. The [Princess] scowled, but sat back down as Mrsha scampered over to her.

“She’s going to be making food all day when she gets back.”



—-



“Excuse me. What exactly do you call this?”

The [Scribe] working day-shift at the Mage’s Guild looked up as Pisces thrust the parchment in front of her. She was a Gnoll, which surprised Erin for someone working in the Mage’s Guild—until she saw the ink stains on the Gnoll’s fur. The [Scribe] sighed.

“What? Sir.”

She seemed to know Pisces, from the snappish tone she had. Pisces sniffed.

“I requested all the relevant news on Tiqr, did I not? What is this—this extortionate nonsense about an addendum?”

The Gnoll bared her teeth at him as she sat up at her desk.

“Exactly what it says. Sir. The addendum is not necessarily verifiable, but it is being offered by the Mage’s Guild. Which is why it was not included. If you would like to read it, I can easily copy you the relevant information.”

Pisces paused huffily. Erin peeked around behind him. The Mage’s Guild wasn’t a place she used often.

“I suppose that would be acceptable. How much?”

“One silver coin and two copper.”

“One silver coin? That is more than I paid for the information on Tiqr! Preposterous!”

The outraged voice made the other employees and visitors looked around. Erin winced, but Pisces was in full indignation mode. He placed both hands on the counter and tried to glare at the Gnoll. She was taller than he was and just narrowed her eyes.

“One silver coin and two copper is the price…sir. The length of the report alone justifies the cost. Do you want it or not?”

Pisces hesitated. Erin poked him in the side. That was a very Gnollish action. She smiled at the Gnoll [Scribe] apologetically.

“Sorry about him. Pisces, just pay her!”

“It’s an indignity!”

“You don’t even know what it says. Pay her! And say sorry!”

“Very well, but if it is not sufficiently worthy of the price…”

Pisces passed the coins over. Then, when Erin poked him harder, muttered what might have been an apology. The Gnoll smiled at Erin, who smiled back, and reached for a quill. She produced a roll of parchment, placed it on a writing board and clamped it, then picked up another bit of parchment and began to copy with a practiced hand. Erin was impressed; the Gnoll’s writing was very good and very fast! Pisces just sniffed and folded his arms, the picture of pique.

When she was done, the Gnoll [Scribe] lifted her quill, blew on the ink, and handed it to Erin, not Pisces.

“Thank you!”

Erin beamed at her, and pulled Pisces out of line. She investigated the parchment. It was, much to her surprise, packed with writing. More like a page from a book than the factual reports. She whistled.

“Hey Pisces, look at this! It’s a lot of writing.”

Pisces stopped harrumphing long enough to look at the parchment. He blinked and snatched it from Erin.

“Hey!”

“Strange. This isn’t a typical report verified by the Mage’s Guild. What is this?”

“Uh—can I see?”

Erin peeked over Pisces’ shoulder. He absently lowered it and both read together. The parchment was strange. Stranger to Pisces than Erin; after a moment, she understood what was so familiar about it to her.



*The Mage’s Guild takes no responsibility for the authenticity of this information.

Laughing Brigade’s end marks another ‘complete victory’ against Tiqr

Today, the Laughing Brigade, one of Tiqr’s final remaining forces not withdrawn around their capital of Oliphant was defeated in battle. The estimated eight hundred remaining [Soldiers] and hyenas that made up the Laughing Brigade were cornered in the canyon known as Heda’s Valley by a combined force of warriors led by the nations of Savere and Nerrhavia’s Fallen.

The Laughing Brigade, once a designated ‘Unit’ numbering just over three thousand, had fought an ongoing war of attrition with the nations invading Tiqr, launching a number of surprise attacks on enemy forces thanks to their mobility and unique effect—maddening, deafening, or simply infectious laughter that was due to the Empress of Beast’s Skill.

After nearly a month of successful fighting, they were at last cornered as Tiqr’s remaining army withdraws to the capital. Surrounded and unable to retreat, a combined army of Savere’s irregulars and Nerrhavian elites of the Silk-caste, the Laughing Brigade fought and perished to the last soldier. There were no survivors or captives.

These are the facts of the matter, which have been reported via Mage’s Guild to the rest of the world. They were indisputable, easily verifiable via [Detect Lies] spell as an absolute truth. However, they fail to tell the story of Tiqr, which has not been reported on for the duration of the conflict, a little less than a month’s worth of fighting.

You may have read that the Laughing Brigade was defeated. Crushed utterly by a superior force. That is a summation of the events that does not reflect the reality I witnessed. It is the line the anti-Tiqr alliance wishes to propagate.

I witnessed the end of the Laughing Brigade. They were indeed cornered by Savere and Nerrhavian troops. Worn down, depleted from weeks of fighting and without supply or reinforcement, they were offered no quarter and sought none themselves. They died, with their backs to the cliffs. But they did not die easily.

Throughout the night, I was able to hear the fighting take place as the Laughing Brigade made its last stand. I was unable to move closer due to the active spellcasting and danger to myself, but I was able to hear quite well from afar.

Heda’s Valley was alight with magelight and the flashes of magic. I heard laughter throughout the night sometimes mixed with the screams. Not normal laughter either; I was forced to stay at a great remove lest my ears begin to bleed or I suffer the auditory hallucinations and madness gripping some of the [Soldiers] on the front.

The final battle took place over four hours, despite the vastly-outnumbered brigade’s forces, due to them holding the treacherous rocks leading up to the backdrop of the canyon. Walking among the bodies in the light of day, I count only their bodies; the rest have been removed.

There is no way of knowing how many Saverian or Nerrhavian forces fell, but gaps within their lines leads me to estimate that at least a thousand Nerrhavian [Soldiers] were killed or otherwise wounded. Savere is harder to estimate, but their ranks seem equally thinned.

This is one of the final landmark victories in the war against Tiqr. The Laughing Brigade, while never numerous, constituted a decisive force in the field due to their unique abilities. However, I can count no smiles here, among Savere’s irregular forces comprised of what I understand to be [Bandits], [Pirates], and other rogue elements. Instead, they swear as I pass, clutching ears still bloody, or sit in silence, not in the raucous good spirits I witnessed during the first stages of the war.

Their excellence in raiding and experience in night-fighting, ambushes, and so on has not prepared them for the ferocity of Tiqr’s warriors or its animals. Even Nerrhavia’s countless forces cannot celebrate overloud; many Stitch-Warriors were torn to shreds despite their superior arms and numbers. This was a victory, but, like much of Tiqr’s defeat, has come at what these other nations must surely feel is too high a cost.

I am unable to secure an interview with the leaders of either force, however, the [Soldiers] willing to gossip with me inform me that the final battle on Oliphant, Tiqr’s capital, is not one they look forwards to. Most of the Grand Elephants that have plagued Tiqr’s foes are now fallen, and Tiqr’s army is a remnant of itself. However, it is the belief of all present that Tiqr’s citizens will join their army and fight to the last.

Oliphant, before the war, was estimated at a population of four hundred thousand, small perhaps for a capital city, but the thought of even a hundred thousand [Soldiers] willing to fight an enduring siege battle without quarter seems to evoke fear in even the most battle-hardened [Soldier]. They have seen how far Tiqr is willing to go, and one [Sergeant] from Nerrhavia expresses his desire not to be sent to the final siege. He is in fact hopeful the siege will end before he is called with his squad to the front, but his resigned tone makes it clear to me that he fears this will not be the case.

It seems this is Tiqr’s last hour, and it may indeed pass only as a news snippet in the eyes of the world, a summary fact of defeat. However, from the front lines, it is clear that regardless of the King of Destruction’s involvement, Tiqr has proven to be far more costly than any of its opponents ever dreamed it could be.

I will attempt to journey to Oliphant to report on the end of Tiqr, although I fear my articles have now attracted a bounty on my own head. If the final siege is half as costly as the end of the Laughing Brigade, it is small wonder the allied nations hesitate before bringing the final battle to the Empress of Beasts.

Whatever the case, Tiqr’s legacy will be one of bloodshed—one not soon forgotten by the other nations who may indeed be watching their borders for fear of becoming a second Tiqr.

Signing off,



–Rémi Canada, [Reporter].



The piece of parchment stayed in Pisces’ hands another moment. And then he turned it over and looked at the backside. Erin was frozen where she stood. Pisces sniffed.

“Well, I suppose that was an interesting tale. Unverified, of course. No wonder the price I suppose; the [Scribe] did not undersell the cost given how much writing needed to be done. I er, probably should apologize. But—fascinating. This person did more reports? I wonder why—I should be delighted to hear their take on the start of the war.”

He chuckled, rubbing his hands together with academic interest. Erin was still frozen. She stared down at the name as Pisces turned the page over again.

“Canada.”

“Hm? Oh, yes. Interesting name I suppose. And [Reporter]—similar to [Crier] I think? Odd, but certainly fascinating! If what they say is true, I imagine these other nations are attempting to keep this blunder secret. I can only imagine this fellow has a sizeable bounty, as they said. Or is it female? Fascinating indeed…”

Pisces’ chuckle stopped as he noticed the look on Erin’s face. She was pale, suddenly, and he saw her lips shaping a word.

Canada. It was such a…people didn’t have that as a last name. Did they? In this world? No, how could it be that kind of coincidence? And that class.

[Reporter]. Erin stared at the parchment. Then she looked up. She started as she saw Pisces looking at her.

“I—uh—Canada? No, I was just saying, what a weird name. Canada. Sounds, foreign, doesn’t it?”

She stumbled over her words, unable to fake anything. The [Necromancer] paused. But then he raised his eyebrows nonchalantly, pretending not to notice her expression or the way she looked.

“It may be vaguely Chandrarian. But—what is a name, after all?”

“Yeah. Yeah. But it’s um, amazing work. Journalism. I mean—amazing.”

“Yes it is.”

Pisces watched Erin’s face. She reached for the parchment, hesitated, and then snatched it, affecting a casual grin.

“Hey! We should find the other things this person wrote, huh? Isn’t it interesting? It makes the war come to life!”

“It does at that.”

Erin hesitated.

“…Do you think people can send [Messages] to this person? I mean, obviously they must have access to the Mage’s Guild if they’re able to send this around, right?”

She looked so hopeful. So desperate. Pisces paused. He turned his head for a moment, responded casually.

“I would not.”

“Why not?”

He shrugged.

“This…[Reporter] has undoubtedly incurred the wrath of all the nations mentioned in this article. It would be unwise to contact them on an unsecured [Message] spell sent through the Mage’s Guild. They read your correspondence. Believe me.”

“Oh. Right.”

Erin deflated. Pisces hesitated, and then carefully placed a hand on her shoulder. She looked up, but he only smiled slightly, and then tilted his head upwards and sniffed.

“I suppose we could read more of these ah, articles. They are interesting and provide a different take on Chandrar! Perhaps this character will report on the end. And no doubt one might find out more about them. I certainly would like to know more about this class.”

“Yes. Yes, let’s ask.”

Pisces walked Erin back into the Mage’s Guild. Thinking hard. And he was far from the only one. The news article that cost so much hadn’t been read—much. At first. But like a growing wave, it had traction. The [Necromancer] and [Innkeeper] weren’t the only ones poring over the words that day.



—-



Archmage Feor put down the newspaper and looked at his aide, Teura. The half-Elf focused on the name.

“Canada. One of the countries from the other world. Send a team to find this Remi and retrieve them. Before they are assassinated or taken captive.”

“At once, Archmage. Should the team be ready for conflict?”

“Yes. The Siren of Songs is furious. As are a number of other rulers who have become aware of the article. The Mage’s Guilds are not being subtle about how they advertise this…journalism. Send word—carefully—to instruct the Mage’s Guilds not to reveal the location of this [Reporter].”

“Yes, Archmage.”

Teura bowed slightly. Feor looked down at the article. Of course, he knew what was going on even if he hadn’t read the news. But the concept of someone simply going into a warzone and…telling people what was happening? Everyone? Not a [Spy], or [Informant]?

“A strange concept.”

And bothersome. Archmage Feor rose with a sigh. This was Tiqr’s final hour indeed. And the Empress of Beasts still had not tried to contact the King of Destruction. If she did, it would be now. Wistram was watching.



—-



But for now there was only silence. Empress Nsiia sat on her throne, waiting. Her army and her people waited, as the armies gathered outside her home. Her city was silent before the end. The Empress of Beasts paused.

“General Vasraf. The scrying mirror. Bring it to me. It is time Flos Reimarch and I spoke.”

The man started. He looked up, wearily, war-torn. He raised his voice angrily, furiously, even.

“Now? At this hour? It is too late, Empress.”

Nsiia raised her head.

“I know that. But it was too late the moment the other nations declared war. He and I knew that. Bring me the mirror. It is not for Tiqr’s salvation I ask. But to make an end to this. He could not save Tiqr. But he can give me destruction.”

Vasraf looked at his [Empress]. Then he bowed silently. The Empress of Beasts sat on her throne. She looked ahead, east.



—-



And there he stood. Silent, staring out across his nation. The same article fluttered from Flos Reimarch’s grasp. He let it float to the floor and turned. He leaned across the window, looking across Reim. Staring blankly, remembering a girl who laughed and rode a little elephant around, decades past. Flos, the King of Destruction stared out the window. After a moment he looked up.

“It’s raining.”





6.53 K


He had rather liked her. But that seldom mattered. Sometimes, he thought that Chandrar was, of all the continents, the most foolish. Not because their people were the most impoverished, the most warlike, or their cultures any more backwards than those of other nations.

All you had to do was look at Izril’s divided continent, or Baleros’ endemic wars or even the hidebound orders of [Knights] in Terandria. Rhir alone was built on a stubborn refusal to abandon a battle without victory. No, what separated Chandrar was ego.

He had liked Nsiia, though they had talked so briefly. But he could admire her kingdom. What it had been. Yet, where she erred was simply in refusing to bow. That was Chandrar’s issue. It’s leaders could be humble, or proud, and pride clashed with pride until only one was left. And that left only expediency.

Magus-Crafter Femithain was tired. Tired of blood and gore. Tired of death, of hounding a foe almost as stubborn as the Golems he crafted. But it was the end. Evening was falling as he stood on the plains surrounding Oliphant, the capital of Tiqr.

The city was built upon one of the few natural rivers in this region, which had given Tiqr its life. It had fed the city. Now, the river was dammed, to starve the defenders of water. And the city’s gates were barred, the sandstone walls held. But it seemed a paltry army compared to the one outside the city.

From where he stood in the coalition’s camp, Femithain could see the vast Nerrhavian army. Nearly three hundred thousand strong; replenished after General Thelican had realized Tiqr would not roll over easily. The Magus-Crafter could also see into Oliphant; his spectacles magnified, zooming in on a crowd of civilians. Badly-armed, being shown the basics of holding a spear.

He grimaced. Oliphant hadn’t been fully evacuated. When the coalition’s army went over the walls—and they would—it might be a slaughter.

“If you had but condemned him…”

Femithain fell silent. Perhaps it would have changed nothing. Tiqr might have been offered up anyways, a target simply by association with the King of Destruction. But even now, they had not begged for Reim’s help. They had not declared themselves for Flos. It made monsters of the armies invading Tiqr; gave them no cause for war. Femithain was well aware of the hypocrisy, but it was join forces or be made a target. And Illivere was not a nation that stood alone.

Still, if these were regrets, they had been had before. Femithain walked through the Nerrhavian camp. He was challenged four times by [Soldiers], the closer he came to the center. But they recognized him and waved him past.

The heart of Nerrhavia’s camp was little like the military discipline of the outside. Slaves and servants attended to the officers, who lounged about, chatting, enjoying themselves while their [Soldiers] attended to the needs of their army. It fit with Nerrhavia’s system; authority was rewarded.

Thus, Femithain only had to steer himself towards the largest tent. Even the war-tent wasn’t as large as General Thelican’s quarters. The magical cloth rustled and warm air—warm instead of the night’s slight chill—instantly surrounded the Magus-Crafter. Femithain looked around.

General Thelican was reclining on a sofa, brought by a bag of holding, attended to by eight servants. He was not alone; a number of his officers were conversing with him. Silk-caste, superior in movement and appearance, if not quite as sturdy as the Stitch-Warriors made of Hemp. Femithain knew he was plain compared to them.

“Magus-Crafter! Ah, your army has arrived. Come! Sit! Any refreshments you wish, partake.”

General Thelican saw Femithain and waved a languid arm. The Magus-Crafter saw two [Slaves] hurry towards him. He paused, and his eyes flicked to the side. A man was crouched in the wide tent, the only other person not reclining. Or rather, a male.

He too was a Stitch-Person, but his skin was rough. Not quite hemp; some thick, plant fiber perhaps. It gave him a rugged, tough look, but the utility clearly set him apart from the silk-fleshed loungers. He was an outcast. But too important to eject from the tent.

Femithain saw the Named Adventurer was crouching over a pot with his gear arrayed in front of him. He was flexing his bow, dipping ivory arrows into the little black pot beside him. Alked Fellbow looked up, his glittering armor—made of the scales of a Basilisk if Femithain was any judge—reflecting the light. He nodded and Femithain inclined his head. And then the leader of Illivere approached the [General].

“General Thelican. My greetings.”

“Magus-Crafter.”

General Thelican did hail from Nerrhavia, but he was respectful of Femithain’s position and sat up to nod to him. Femithain paused as another sofa was arranged in the circle, but he adopted the same lounging position as the Stitch-People. It was not comfortable to Femithain, but it was far more courteous than insisting on sitting.

“I trust you arrived without ambush?”

“Surprisingly, yes. The animals have all fled, it seems. Those that were not eradicated.”

Femithain made small-talk for a moment, but he and Thelican had spoken enough to be comfortable in each other’s presence. Or at least, Thelican assumed that was true. The [General] nodded after Femithain had been given food and drink; he did not wish to be hand-fed.

“It is good of you to join us. We are about to assail Oliphant and your Golems are a key component in my plan of attack.”

“So it will be an attack?”

That was news to Femithain. The coalition had been hesitating. Oliphant was hardly a bastion, but the Empress of Beast’s army would still hold the walls. Thelican grimaced.

“It may be costly, but I have orders, you see?

“Ah. Say no more.”

Queen Yisame, then. Thelican nodded, shrugging casually.

“Costly, but I assure you, my Hemp [Soldiers] will take the first wave at the walls. In truth, I would not consider it amiss for Illivere to hold back its foot soldiers; I have only need of your Golems.”

He glanced up and Femithain nodded. A little favor. Thelican crooked a finger and a [Slave]—Garuda—rushed forwards with a bowl. He choose some nuts, and they were fed to him as he went on.

“We may struggle on the walls, yes, so my [Strategists] tell me. But the Empress of Beasts has no cards left to play. We count eighteen of her Grand Elephants left, virtually none of her [Mages]—the Laughing Brigade was destroyed last night, did you hear?”

“I did. It was a remarkable victory. But not it seems, entirely bloodless.”

Thelican’s face twisted in displeasure. He turned and another bowl was brought for him to spit discretely into. The nuts were suddenly no longer appetizing.

“Ah. That’s the second thing. These—articles. And this [Reporter] who seems to be interviewing [Soldiers]. Have you any idea where they are? Queen Yisame is rather upset about this person, and she has commanded me to find them. Naturally, I leap to her word, but I am fighting a war at the moment.”

He looked irate, as well he might be. Femithain had a copy of the articles and they were astoundingly accurate to what was really going on in Tiqr’s war. It was embarrassing, if not to him personally than the Siren of Savere and Nerrhavia’s [Queen], Yisame. He paused.

“Not personally, General Thelican. Surely locating one outsider is not a difficult task?”

Thelican waved an angry hand, grasping for a goblet of wine.

“You’d imagine so! However, this person seems to be untraceable. Their face? None of my officers can recall it! And they have a rather attractive personality, or so it seems. Skills. I’ve of a mind to set Adventurer Fellbow on the trail, but—”

He looked pointedly at the Named Adventurer. Alked Fellbow raised his head and replied in a gravelly voice.

“I’m not being paid to hunt down civilians. I was contracted for one war. Altering my contract requires a substantial fee.”

“…So he says.”

Thelican dismissed the Named Adventurer with a flick of the fingers. He shook his head, drinking deeply.

“I’ll find this person after the siege is done. They’ll have little to report but our victory in any case! I’ve drawn up our plan of attack. Interested?”

“Mildly.”

Thelican waved another hand; maps were produced and held up by his attendants. He pointed, and Femithain saw.

“We wait for every army to assemble before beginning the siege. A classic envelopment, I think. The walls will not give us much trouble, so I intend to overwhelm the defenders with sheer numbers rather than attack from any one side. I’d prefer to starve out a surrender, to be frank. But Oliphant’s stores might last them weeks, or even months depending on how well-stocked their larders are.”

“You imagine so?”

Thelican shrugged.

“Their city might well be empty save for their army. Hundreds of thousands have already fled west. And more to Pomle. I can’t imagine any would stay in the city knowing what’s coming!”

Some of his officers laughed. Femithain paused. He had seen civilians training, but he nodded anyways. It still wouldn’t matter; Thelican was adopting a simple, but effective tactic. There would be ten full armies assailing Oliphant from all sides. Nerrhavia alone could probably take it over a protracted siege. All together…

“Not to worry, Magus-Crafter. Ere tomorrow, we shall toast each other from Oliphant’s palace, such as it is. And I intend to keep Illivere’s forces back from the fighting! Note the Golems? Your Golems will storm the southern gates, take out any elephants, but you and your [Soldiers] will be well clear of the fighting. Unless you’d prefer to send some in to level them? I can arrange that.”

Thelican mistook Femithain’s scrutiny of the battle plans for worry. Femithain shook his head. he was no [Strategist], but he had noticed some irregularities within Thelican’s plan.

“Illivere’s place is well-set, General Thelican. I was more interested in the positioning of the other armies. I notice Savere is positioned without major support to the west flank. Little [Mage] or [Archer] cover save for their own forces. And no siege ladders.”

The Stitch-[General] paused, and quickly hid his surprise by another gulp of wine.

“Ah, well, Savere’s [Bandit Lady]—dreadful class—has made the same protest. But I am the commanding [General]. And Savere will do well enough alone. They are [Scoundrels] and [Rogues] and so forth, used to city-fighting. In truth, Magus-Crafter, it’s all to do with the conclusion of the battle. The Empress of Beasts. Another order, you see.”

Femithain’s didn’t have to think.

“You want her alive.”

Thelican paused.

“Alive, most certainly. And it would please me if you would give the same orders to your forces. I have…a plan of battle that involves sending your Golems and some of my elite warriors through the gaps first to secure the Empress of Beasts. Now, I believe the Siren wishes Empress Nsiia alive, but in her grasp. Queen Yisame, our radiant leader, has given me an order to take her first. A matter of pride for Nerrhavia, so it must be.”

The other officers nodded and murmured their agreement. They were all watching Femithain to see if he objected. His nation was comparable to Savere’s after all, and while Nerrhavia was the giant of their coalition, Femithain’s objections could be—tricky. He was a leader of his nation and technically outranked General Thelican. However, the Magus-Crafter only nodded politely.

“I have no objections, General Thelican. I am merely surprised Queen Yisame wishes her enemy captured. Given Tiqr’s resistance.”

The [General] relaxed and laughed.

“Our [Queen] loves trophies, Magus-Crafter! And the Empress of Beasts? Better a royal prisoner or personal slave of Nerrhavia than one of Savere’s lot. It would be merciful. Perhaps she’d even be awarded to me for my efforts! Ah, but one does not dream too mightily.”

He tapped the side of his nose. Femithain looked at him. And he imagined the proud [Empress] who’d dared to speak her mind in chains. No wonder Tiqr had held until the point of annihilation. You couldn’t cage a beast. They had the spark Golems lacked. But that was what he thought. And Femithain seldom said what he thought. So he nodded, politely, and did what was best for Illivere.

“No doubt. Then let us toast your—excuse me—our victory, General Thelican.”

He’d thought he’d laid it on too thickly. But the [General] beamed and raised his own cup, calling Femithain his Stitch-Brother, a high compliment for a flesh-based person to receive. And Femithain waited for dawn, drinking lightly. He had a feeling the Empress of Beasts would not fall quietly. And he was right.



—-



Reim.

The King of Destruction sat in his quarters, the drapes to his balcony pulled back. The rich fabric was pulled back, the doors thrown open. And the balcony was wet.

It was raining. The sky was dark, the clouds overfull. And from the sky, rain fell, soaking the arid lands of Reim. The King of Destruction watched the rain falling, sitting still in his chair.

He was an imposing man. The image of a [King] of old, his hair red and gold, his eyes emerald-green. His hands, more used to reins or a sword, rested on the arms of his chair. And he was still. Waiting.

Someone knocked on the door to his room. Flos Reimarch looked up. Instantly, he spoke, shifting his posture.

“Enter.”

A young girl entered the room. She was young—far younger than he was. She bore a sword on her hip and wore the same light clothing as he did—and nearly as rich. Flos smiled as he saw her looking at him.

“Oh. Teresa, come in. I was expecting someone else.”

“Really? Who?”

Teres, or Teresa Atwood, one of the two twins from Earth, and the King of Destruction’s personal aides, servants, bodyguards, or perhaps, hostages, walked into the room. She was familiar with Flos, and not afraid of him. If anything, she was somewhat challenging, in tone of voice and posture. She was holding something in her hands. Flos glanced at it, puzzled.

“A [Message]. Or perhaps a conversation. What’s that you’re holding?”

“A pot.”

“I see.”

Flos was distracted. He glanced back to the window again. Teres waited. She knew he wanted to ask about the pot, but he’d been like this lately. Hence Gazi not-so-subtly encouraging Teres to snap him out of it. She’d done her best, but in truth, the King of Destruction was simply melancholic today.

The war in Tiqr had dominated the last month, and the King of Destruction’s mood. But his ill-tempered fury and restlessness had given way to a somber, quiet mood these last few days. He exhaled, staring out the window.

“I’m admiring the rain, Teresa. Come, sit. Is it not a wonderful sight?”

Teres raised an eyebrow, but she went over and pulled over a chair. Flos blinked and Teres blushed; she was dragging it through what was this world’s equivalent of a Persian rug. He didn’t seem to really care, but Teres hurriedly lifted the chair up and carried it over to him. She sat and looked out the window. After a moment she coughed.

“It’s been raining. For days. Is it that rare in Reim?”

“Out of season? Unheard of. It’s a beautiful sight, no matter how many times I see it.”

Flos was unmoved by her lack of awe. He watched it rain. After a moment, Teres lifted the pot.

“Look at this.”

The King of Destruction stared at the little pot. It was clay, fired from some oven and given some carvings along the bottom. Not a fine work; some apprentice’s piece. It was also filled with dirt. Something green was poking out of the top. A broad-headed leaf. Flos eyed it.

“Is that a Yellat stalk?”

“Yup. Want to see how big it is?”

Flos hesitated, but Teres was tempting him. He paused, then pulled at the stalk. It came up and both he and Teres exclaimed at the large, fat Yellat. The spicy-tasting, vaguely tubular roots were usually long and narrow, but this one hadn’t been able to grow in the pot, so it had curled up on itself.

“What an unusual shape!”

The [King] was highly amused. He shook dirt off the Yellat, onto the aforementioned rich carpet and stone floor. Teres winced, but the [Servants] could probably get it out. And Flos’ laugh was worth the dirt. He stared at it, bemused.

“Are you attempting to be a [Gardener], Teres? There’s little potential for war in the [Gardener] class, I’ll have you know. Although my [Gardener], Tottenval, could grow the most wondrous of plants. Ah, but if he’d been here, Reim would be blooming eternally.”

He sighed. Teres hurriedly pointed to the Yellat to keep him from backsliding into gloom.

“I planted this seven days ago in my room. I watered it, but I didn’t do anything other than put it by my window. Look how big it is.”

“Yes indeed. Quite tasty. I have a mind to eat it. But of course, Yellats taste horrible raw. I’ll hand it to one of my [Chefs] and have it for dinner. Or a snack.”

Flos good-naturedly tossed it back into the bowl. Teres cleared her throat meaningfully.

“It grew in seven days. Don’t Yellats take…longer?”

“Seventy days. It’s just as well our growing seasons are so long. And that Chandrar has little to no winter. But they don’t take much water. What of it?”

Teres folded her arms. Flos paused.

“Oh, well, I told you. I issued an Edict. The [Edict of Bloom]. Hence…that.”

Flos waved a lazy hand. Teres stared out the window. She knew what Edicts were. A [King]’s order that could encompass a kingdom. But she hadn’t thought it would be this powerful.

“Is that why it’s still raining?”

“Most likely, most likely. It’s a happy surprise. It saves my [Farmers] the issue of watering. Their only complaint is that it’s too wet for some crops to crow. Happily, Yellats only get fatter with water. They’re harvesting quickly! They have Skills on top of their natural abilities, Teres. I dare say their Yellats might be as long as my leg!”

He laughed at the thought, then frowned.

“The [Edict of Bloom] will fill Reim’s storehouses. But we must be careful not to overstretch. The soil’s lost some of its potency from all this growing. The [Farmers] are telling Orthenon they must switch crops after this next harvest. I don’t suppose you recall anything more of this crop rotation? My [Farmers] say they have a good system—and of course, some have Skills that replenish the dirt, but…”

He looked at Teres. She could only shrug unhelpfully.

“Sorry. I never grew anything back home.”

“Ah, well. The rain is good enough. I’m glad we could collect so much water as well; it will help for the dry seasons and campaigns.”

The King of Destruction looked pleased. Teres just raised an eyebrow.

“About that. I thought the [Edict of Bloom] only affected plants. That’s what Trey told me you said to him.”

Flos laughed.

“So did I! But the last time I used it was…ah, twenty levels ago. As I said, Teres. Edicts wear at a kingdom. I try not to use them unless I have need for them. I suppose I’ve become a stronger [King] since then.”

“Wait. So last time you used it, you only got plants to grow faster?”

“And babies to be born quicker. Better harvests. Hm. Energized citizens. Yes, that was what happened last time. No rain.”

“So leveling up gives your edict more power?”

“Only naturally.”

Flos looked like he was explaining why the ground was the ground to a child. Teres stared at him. He elaborated.

“Come now, I’ve taught you about Skills and classes, haven’t I? Why is it a surprise that your level affects the strength of your Skills? Have you ever seen a [Lady] use [Deft Hand]? Well, most of them fled Reim when I entered my slumber. I’ll try to find one and have them show you an example.”

“What can a [Lady] do?”

Teres watched Flos perch the cup with dirt in it by the edge of the table. He flicked his wrist at it. The cup didn’t move.

“See that? [Deft Hand] lets you reach out and touch something. At low levels, say, Level 10, you can knock over something like that cup, or stop one from falling. Useful, in…tea circles, but not for most other things, correct?”

Teres nodded dutifully. Flos leaned back; the poor cup nearly fell over on its own as he nudged the table.

“However, I have heard that during war, high-level [Ladies] can divert a shower of arrows, even change the direction of a cavalry charge. At least, if someone like Orthenon isn’t leading them or Maresar isn’t shooting the arrows.”

“Really?”

“Of course. Have you seen the [Warriors] practicing with [Power Strike]? Ask Mars to do the same and stand back! Strength lies in your level, Teres. Why do you think half the world is so afraid of me and my little kingdom? Then again, strength is also in magical items. Spells. Sheer numbers. Gold.”

Flos sighed again. Teres bit her lip. He was thinking of Tiqr again.

He’d promised not to go to war. Unless a nation gave Reim just cause, the King of Destruction would not make war without reason. That was what Flos had promised, but that had led to other nations declaring war on Tiqr, one of the few countries even remotely sympathetic towards him. It had been nearly a month and Flos hadn’t gone to Tiqr’s aid.

He wanted to, Teres and Trey could see it in every line of his being, the way he hung on reports from Tiqr and discussed strategy with Gazi and Orthenon when he returned from managing Hellios on occasion. But he couldn’t intervene, not without breaking his promise. And that might lead to every nation in Chandrar attacking Reim.

Teres was about to suggest Flos eat the Yellat, or show her one of his Skills, but the King of Destruction had turned to look out the window. She expected him to make some other rain-related comment, but suddenly, he sat up and pointed.

“Look. My people are returning.”

The King of Destruction stood as Teres turned. In the distance, buffeted by the rain, she could see…Teres had to squint. Her eyes weren’t nearly as good as Flos’, but she saw a thin line through the drizzle at last.

“Another group?”

“It looks that way. They’re coming from the north. They must be exhausted.”

“The patrols probably already spotted them.”

Teres was sure of it; no one would have made it this far without being seen, but the King of Destruction was already turning. He clapped his hands once.

“Your Majesty?”

The door instantly opened and a [Servant] appeared. Flos turned.

“…Mizzi?”

“Yes, your Majesty!”

The woman beamed. Flos nodded, smiling.

“Send someone to escort my people into the city. [Healers] should ride out—and [Riders] with wagons to carry them if there are young or old amongst them. Have the [Chefs] prepare food! Oh, and cook this, will you? I want to eat it.”

“At once, sire!”

The [Servant] didn’t even look twice at the Yellat that Flos handed her, although she did notice Teres’ dirty cup. But she rushed out, and another [Servant] replaced her.

“Will there be anything else, your Majesty? Shall I send someone to remove the dirt or cup…?”

“Leave the dirt for later. Do you want your cup back, Teres?”

“Take it.”

The [Servant] bowed. Teres found herself alone with the King of Destruction once more. He sat back down; already, someone was riding out from Reim’s gates towards the group of refugees.

“From all across Chandrar they are coming, Teres. It almost makes the news of Tiqr easier to swallow. This is my peace. My people return to me. Do you see?”

Teres nodded. It was one of hundreds of such caravans that had come to Reim this month, and many had numbers in the thousands. Flos’ subjects, all those who still thought well of the King of Destruction, had left their homes and made the long journey to Reim. Many were still coming; they were sheltered by his proclamation of peace.

“So you have an army.”

“I have a kingdom. Some will fight. But many will simply settle in Reim, Germina, or Hellios. My nation was worn away by my slumber; this will return it to its glory.”

Flos corrected Teres, smiling. Then he paused again.

“Tiqr will fall tomorrow. So I feel. Nsiia is cornered in her capital. I have been to Oliphant. Unless it has changed drastically, it will not last long.”

Teres sighed. Flos was worse than a dog with a bone. She fished around in her pocket. She hadn’t wanted to use her trump card just yet, but it was time. Slowly, she pulled out a smooth, rectangular object.

“Your people are nearing the city. Are you going to greet them?”

“In a moment.”

“Well, then why don’t I take a picture? Of your citizens?”

“Take a what? Oh!”

Flos turned. His eyes widened as he saw Teres holding her iPhone. She held it up, the little camera light shining. Teres smiled triumphantly as the King of Destruction did a double-take, looking towards the balcony.

“Your phone! Does it still have its energy?”

“Smartphone. And yes, it does. I told you, it’s got hours left. Ever since Ulyse recharged it.”

Teres held the smartphone up, grinning with pure pleasure at the look on Flos’ face. Of course, she’d had her iPhone from the beginning, like Trey. But both their phones had run out of battery within two days of them arriving in this world. They’d only lasted long enough for a very strange chat message with other people from Earth and then gone dead.

The twins had assumed it would be forever, but one of the [Mages] who had recently come to Reim, Ulyse, leader of the [Mage]-group, Parasol Stroll, had tried to fix Trey’s iPhone. And—miracle of miracles—a simple [Repair] spell had charged the smartphones back to full strength! Teres was still amazed; she’d spent all of yesterday on her iPhone, just…playing with it. She’d listened to all her music, looked at all her pictures—

The ones of her family hurt her most. Her family, and friends. She’d tried not to linger on them and it didn’t bother her now. She was focused on Flos’ expression. He’d seen her and Trey waving the smartphones about, but they’d barely been able to explain them to the [King], so excited they’d been. Now he peered at the glowing screen, frowning.

“You showed me the camera when we first met. And you explained the pictures—similar to a [Mage]-image. This little thing can make one?”

“It can take one. Of you, or your people. Anything I want. See? Look—I’m going to take a picture—”

“Yes, yes. And the little picture is what this camera sees. Fascinating. Very disconcerting, too. You’re going to take a picture of my people returning? That’s very appropriate. Worthy of a…picture.”

Flos peered at the image of the world through the screen. Teres nodded.

“If you’ll just let me—”

She held up the iPhone, trying to get the best resolution. It was hard because the image kept refocusing; Flos was excitedly peering at the lens, then stalking around to watch Teres take the picture. He kept shaking his head as she tapped the iPhone, trying to center the shot and zoom in.

“Incredible. A simple spell gives it it’s…energy back? No, wait. Electricity. Charge. You explained it to me. But you told me it was harnessed lightning, not magic!”

“I don’t know why either. Ulyse just cast [Repair] and it worked. Flos, your face is in the way.”

He pulled it out of the way hurriedly.

“Fascinating. And you can take however many you want? Far more efficient than [Artists] or [Mages]!”

“That’s right. Okay, I have a good image.”

The people were getting closer to the city and Teres had framed the balcony, the city, and them. It was fairly good, if she said so herself. She held up the iPhone and then looked at Flos. He was not-quite-subtly standing next to her view of the people in the distance.

“Do you want to be in it?”

“They are my people. And I am a [King]. Shouldn’t I be?”

Teres rolled her eyes, but didn’t debate the point. It was working.

“Alright then! Get ready!”

She refrained from saying, ‘say cheese!’ because it would take too long to explain. To her surprise, Flos immediately stiffened up. He adopted a straight-backed posture, hands at his side, and an almost expressionless face, chin slightly tilted to the open window. It was so—uncharacteristic that Teres had to grin. Flos paused, seeing it.

“What?”

“Why are you standing like that?”

He looked like the very same people captured in old photographs from her world. Not someone taking a selfie or just—posing for a picture. Teres tried to explain, but the King of Destruction didn’t understand what was so funny. He frowned.

“Smile? Pose?”

“Yes! Be more natural! You look far too…serious!”

“The picture is a recollection, a historical marker. Should I be irreverent?”

“Well, I think it would look better. Try smiling, or pointing at them!”

Teres urged the King of Destruction. He hesitated uncertainly, one of the few times she’d ever seen him thusly. Then he tried to take her advice. Flos turned to face the camera, adjusted his posture so he was at a slight angle towards the balcony. Then he held one and hand out, as if gesturing at the influx of people in the distance. He gave the camera the fakest smile Teres had ever seen him make.

She paused, staring through the camera. Flos hesitated, and then spoke through his teeth.

“Is it done?”

“No. One second—”

She hit the camera button and Flos blinked in the flash. That just made the picture…well, not worse—it was already a work of art in the hall of failure. Teres shook her head.

“I take it back. You were right. That’s awful. Come and see what you look like!”

The King of Destruction approached apprehensively. Teres showed him the picture of him, eyes half-closed, fake smile on his face. Flos stared. And then he burst out laughing. He guffawed, slapping his chest, staring wide-eyed, and then choking, trying to hold it in, silently laughing until it burst out of him again. He had to take a few steps back until he was slapping one leg, bracing himself against the table.

The King of Destruction’s hilarity took Teres off-guard. She’d expected him to laugh, but this? It was so infectious that she began giggling, and then laughing herself. Their voices made the servant’s door open, and the [Servants] stared at their [King]. Then they began laughing themselves.

There was no malice in it. But the laughter was long-overdue. Like a pressure cooker, the King of Destruction’s naturally good mood suddenly reflated. And he laughed.

It changed the mood of the room. The quiet silence broke. And the entire castle seemed to light up. Maybe that was how it felt. Or maybe that was just his presence. Even the rain seemed to lessen. But regardless, the King of Destruction left his room, Teres in tow. He held up the iPhone, still chuckling, and went down the hall. And every single person he met in the hall had to see the image of him.

It wasn’t funny. It really wasn’t. Teres stopped laughing after the first four times. But Flos kept laughing, and to her surprise, everyone who saw it started laughing as well. It was like she’d somehow trapped comedy in a single picture.

For a while Teres didn’t understand—until she realized the picture on her iPhone was the clearest photo most people in this world had ever seen. Flos Reimarch himself had probably seen himself only a few times, and then only in a mirror, or with magic. Not like this.

But there he went, holding her iPhone. Laughing. And for a moment he’d forgotten about Tiqr. And Reim, like it’s [King], laughed for a moment in the rain.



—-



Trey Atwood heard the laughter first. It was a booming laugh, but everything about the King of Destruction was large. And love him or hate him—and there were things to hate, for all Trey admired him at times—he was easy to like. And the half-Gazer woman who looked up from her lesson in Trey’s quarters with a bunch of magical scrolls and a textbook smiled. Because she loved him.

Gazi Pathseeker looked up as the door to Trey’s room burst open. Flos, the King of Destruction strode into the room. He was holding Teres’ iPhone in one hand. And on his face was a look of mirth Trey hadn’t seen for over a month.

“Gazi! Gazi, come see this! Could you ever imagine me making such a face?”

Flos thrust the iPhone at Gazi. She blinked, staring at the device. Then she focused on the imagine on screen. It took her a second. But then she grinned. Her sharp teeth and four smaller eyes focused around the large, shut eye in her head. The half-Gazer stared at the image of Flos.

And then she laughed. It was quiet, and instantly drowned out by Flos’ bellow of laughter. Trey saw Teres standing behind Flos. She waved at him, grinning and mouthing something. He nodded.

She’d done it. And Flos was laughing. Gazi looked at Flos, shaking her head.

“You look ridiculous, my lord.”

“I know! What a sight! It’s one of these pictures! Teres took one—Trey! You didn’t tell me these devices were capable of such things!”

“They can do a lot more than that. That’s just a bad picture, your Majesty.”

“What? It’s fantastic! It needs to be kept forever! Can I somehow duplicate this? Is that—where’d it go?”

The screen had timed out and turned dark. Flos looked alarmed. Teres took the smartphone back.

“It’s still here. The screen just went dark. I don’t think there’s a printer in this world, but it’s saved. Maybe an [Artist] can copy this? I told you these can do a lot more than you could imagine.”

“I believe it. But you were so delighted yesterday—by all means, show me one of these devices from your world! And everyone walks around with them?”

“Most people. I told you Earth’s technology was advanced.”

“Yes, but this is astounding! It’s one thing to hear of it, the other to see. Very well, show me something else. I still maintain that magic can work wonders your world lacks. Like creating water. How do you manage in droughts?”

Flos handed the iPhone back. Teres unlocked it and then gave Trey a look he knew all too well.

“Well, we have photos—and video—and all kinds of useful stuff like calculators and so on. But we also have games.”

Trey groaned.

“Teres, maybe—”

She elbowed him, hard. Gazi looked at them with one eye; another was fixed on Flos, the other two looking at the people clustered in the doorway, trying not to peek. They vanished as they saw Gazi looking at them. Flos frowned.

“Games?”

Teres grinned wickedly. She was going to try to take Flos down a peg. Trey groaned. Then he groaned louder when he saw where she was going.

“You tap on the screen, like so, see? And that makes the phone do all sorts of things.”

“I see, I see. Not hard at all! Look! I’ve taken a photo!”

“Of my arm. Okay, you can do that later. But look! I have one of the games people play in my world. It’s a competitive game, actually…want to try?”

“Certainly. I enjoy games. But how will it fit on such a small thing, I wonder? No—wait—just show me. I can’t wait.”

Flos smiled. Trey watched with a dull incredulity. She was actually doing it. Teres tapped on the app with a wicked grin that escaped only Flos in the room. She opened the app and the King of Destruction read the name.

“Flappy Bird? Is that a…bird?”

Trey covered his face. Teres smiled wickedly.

“It’s one of the easiest games. All you do is tap on the screen, see? And the bird goes up—”

“What are those green things? Is that…supposed to be the sky behind it? And that is a bird? It looks nothing like—well, I suppose some fish—”

Flos objected as he tried to grasp the game. Teres tried to explain the nature of warp pipes and artificial games to Flos. Trey just watched. Soon, Flos was watching Teres tap on the screen. She had a high score of eighty three, a personal best.

Trey hated that stupid game so much. He didn’t know why she’d kept it on her iPhone. But it was topical to their world, and Flos was fascinated.

“And you play that game to receive the highest score? That is fun! Simple, yes. A children’s game?”

“Oh no. Adults play it too. It’s just for passing the time.”

“I see, I see. How convenient. Well, allow me to try.”

“Go ahead!”

Teres gave it to Flos with the sweetest of smiles. She’d gotten to nine in her little demonstration, but Flos hadn’t missed the number at the top of the screen. He stroked his beard.

“Eighty three? Fascinating. Even your words resemble ours so much. But enough of such questions. This is your best. Well, I will tap to play and—”

The little bird went up. Flos tapped, copying Teres.

“Up, and up, and—ah!”

It ran into the pipe. Not the second pipe, the first one. Flos’ face fell. Teres’ smile grew wider.

“What a fragile bird. Can’t it move properly?”

Flos muttered. The [King] stared at the screen.

“You can start over. See?”

“Of course! A second attempt! Are there penalties for…?”

“Nope. Keep playing!”

He did. Flos tapped, and this time the bird got past the first pipe. The second, the third—it hit the sixth. Flos’ brows furrowed together.

“Hold on. This little bird—”

“Harder than it looks, right?”

Teres asked innocently. The King of Destruction looked up from the phone. This time he saw Trey’s expression and her face. But he stubbornly tapped her iPhone.

“It’s a matter of timing. I’ve played far harder games. Orthenon tried to interest me in chess—this is—”

Tap, tap, tap. Gazi was watching her [King], the ruler of Reim and the man who’d conquered all of Chandrar, tap on the phone and watch his little bird die. Flos made it to thirteen. And then eighteen. And then four. He just didn’t have the rhythm down.

“Move down, you little pest! Why does it always move like—can’t it fly properly? What’s the point of this?”

“To win. And the bird always moves like that. It’s a challenge.”

Teres replied sweetly. She was enjoying Flos’ frustration to no end. The King of Destruction looked up with a huge scowl.

“I’m beginning to think you’ve played some trick on me, Teres.”

“Me? It’s just my iPhone. Nothing special. As simple as magic, right?”

The [King] narrowed his eyes. Then he turned.

“Magic? I never learned to cast it. On the other hand—Gazi, would you like a try with this infernal game?”

“If your Majesty wishes.”

Gazi smiled slightly. Trey looked at her. She took the iPhone cautiously—both she and Flos handled it as if it were glass, which it did look like. And Gazi tapped the screen.

“It’s easy. All you do is tap—”

Teres’ smug voice was cut off as Gazi swiveled one eye to look at her. The half-Gazer gave her a sharp-toothed grin.

“I have seen.”

She began to tap. Her pace was measured, deliberate. She was copying Teres! And unlike Flos, Gazi didn’t get excited. One of her eyes focused on the screen while the other three went roaming. Trey watched. Gazi tapped, tapped, tapped—and hit a pipe.

“Oops! Well done, though, Gazi.”

Flos smiled good-naturedly. The half-Gazer only shrugged. She met Teres’ smile with her own.

“If you’ll allow me to try again, your Majesty?”

“Very well.”

Flos waved a hand. This time Gazi focused two eyes on the screen. She began tapping. And her bird died again.

On pipe twelve. And it had missed the edge of the pipe by an invisible pixel. Gazi paused, blinked down at the screen. Then Trey saw three of her four eyes focus on the screen. Teres stopped grinning.

The third time she got to thirty nine but ran into a pipe by tapping too fast. Gazi paused, flexed her hand—her fingers were different from a regular Human’s; there were only four, for one thing, and her orange-brown skin was another feature of her mixed heritage. And the eyes, obviously.

“I think I understand. Now.”

She began tapping. And Teres’ smile faded. Flos watched, nodding to himself and smiling. Trey was just incredulous. Because Gazi started tapping and the bird moved through the pipes perfectly.

Tap, tap, tap. Gazi focused three eyes, then two, and then one. She was counting the score. She passed eighty-three. And then a hundred. And then two hundred. Teres threw up her hands.

“How—”

“Shh! She’s beating your score, Teres!”

She glared at him. Trey watched, delightedly, as did Flos, but Gazi’s intent focus began to waver. She began glancing at the screen with one of her eyes, not even watching with that one.

After a score of three hundred and fifteen, the bird ran into a pipe. Not, Trey thought, because Gazi had made a mistake. She’d just gotten bored. She handed the iPhone back to her [King]. Teres was still in a state of shock.

“How did you—but—that’s not fair! You’ve never even played it before! Trey, did you give her your phone?”

“I don’t even have that stupid game!”

Gazi just shrugged, her rust-colored armor moving on her shoulders. She gave Trey her small smile.

“Skills. It’s a game about seeing ahead. And timing. My lord, I don’t think there’s much to it besides an idle moment’s relaxation.”

“You might be right. But I have to at least break a hundred! If you can do it, a [King] should do no less! Thirty, at least!”

Flos began tapping the screen. But he didn’t have Gazi’s incredible sense of timing or patience. He’d tap too fast, or expect the bird to, well, not, move like it did. The twins saw Flos’ brow furrowing, his expression getting more annoyed by the second. Gazi gave Teres another long stare with one eye.

“Uh, your Majesty. There are other things you can do—”

“I must reach at least thirty! No, forty!”

Flos snapped at Trey. Teres began to look as though she was regretting her prank.

“It’s just a game. And it’s my phone. Here—”

She tried to reach for it, but Flos simply lifted the phone above her reach as he continued to tap and scowl.

“No, Teres. You have thrown down the gauntlet. I must satisfy my pride or I won’t be able to dwell on anything else!”

“See what you’ve done?”

“Shut it! It was funny!”

It was, Trey had to admit. But Teres had misjudged her audience. Flos hated losing. And he began getting more and more frustrated by the comical sound effects and the bird. He started tapping harder, and losing more quickly, despite Teres trying to give him tips so he’d break thirty and stop playing.

“Just stop tapping so hard!”

“I’m not tapping hard. This bird refuses to move properly!”

Flos growled back. Trey saw him stab at the screen to retry. And then it happened.

Tap, tap, crack. Trey froze when he heard the sound. He looked up and saw the iPhone’s screen crack around Flos’ finger. He paused and Teres shouted in horror.

“My phone!”

“What happened? I didn’t tap it too—”

“You shattered it!”

Trey was amazed. He’d seen iPhones break, but never by someone tapping it so hard. But Flos was insanely strong—no, as the King of Destruction lowered the iPhone, Trey saw the metal was slightly bent from where he’d been holding it!

“It’s so weak! What metal is this?”

“I don’t know! How’d you break it?”

“We can fix it. Teres, Ulyse managed to [Repair] it. He can fix the phone. Right?”

Teres was nearly in tears. It was her smartphone, and the screen was shattered. One of her few possessions from earth besides her clothes. Flos took one look at her face and whirled.

“[Repair] fixes most objects. And Ulyse is a master. Gazi, summon Ulyse at once! Run!”

Trey stared in surprise. But the half-Gazer didn’t wait for a second question. She took a running start, ran past Flos, and jumped out Trey’s window.

“Gazi!”

The young man ran to the window. He saw Gazi hit the ground—four stories down. She landed in a crouch, and then sprinted forwards. She was headed towards the streets. Flos was at Trey’s back.

“Ulyse must be down there. Come! We’ll meet him. Make way!”

He suited action to words. He was running down the hallway, holding the iPhone like a broken bird. Servants leapt out of the way, some shouting an alarm. The King of Destruction just bellowed for them to clear the hall and they did. Trey and Teres ran after him, more confused than anything.

Ulyse met Flos at the palace’s entrance. He was panting; he must have sprinted through the city! Gazi pointed and he strode towards Flos.

“Your Majesty, what is the issue?”

“This device. I’ve broken it. Can you repair it with a spell?”

“The phone?”

Ulyse looked alarmed as Flos showed him the cracks and dents. He inspected it.

“I have no idea how it functions, but I can cast the same [Repair] spell, your Majesty. I have a few others I can try if it fails.”

“Then do so.”

Flos handed the iPhone to Ulyse and stood back. The [Mage] levitated it up, lifting his colorful parasol. Trey and Teres, panting, caught up to watch him slowly tap the phone with the tip of his parasol.

“[Repair].”

The iPhone twirled in the air and then the cracks began to seal. The indented metal pushed outwards, reforming into the original shape. Ulyse caught the phone as it lowered and peered at it.

“It seems normal. But I cannot tell. This spell takes more magic than I would have imagined for such an object. Nevertheless. Your Majesty?”

“Teres?”

Flos didn’t take the phone. Teres took her smartphone with shaking hands and pressed the power button. Nothing happened.

“Hold it down, Teres.”

Trey urged her. She did, and after an agonizing second, they both saw the familiar logo appear. They exhaled. Flos looked at them urgently.

“Is it fixed?”

“Let me check—um—um—yes! It’s back! All my apps, my pictures! It’s even kept the high score! Thank you, Ulyse!”

Teres turned to the [Mage]. He wiped sweat from his brow, smiling.

“My pleasure, Miss Teres.”

“And mine. Teres, I apologize for damaging it.”

Flos inclined his head gravely to Teres. The twins stared up at him. He looked truly contrite. And he’d practically set up half the palace in alarm running to get Ulyse. People were still streaming out of the doors asking Gazi what had happened! It was ludicrous—

Until Trey looked at Flos and thought about what he was thinking. Flos was looking at Teres, the relieved look on her face as she swiped through her photos. And at her iPhone. He saw how much it meant to her.

And—it really was valuable. Unique. Even if Trey had one, Teres’ iPhone had data no one else did. Perhaps only she, in the entire world, had that game on her phone. It was a strange thought. Flos nodded, meeting Teres’ eyes.

“It truly is an irreplaceable artifact. And I will not be tapping on it any more. Clearly, some of the…activities have merit. These pictures and video? I would pay the cost of a hundred scrying orbs for such a device! The bird-thing not so much. Teres?”

“It’s okay. I mean, it’s fine. Thank you, Ulyse, again. And you, your Majesty.”

Teres looked up. Relieved, Flos turned. He addressed his people, holding up one hand gravely.

“The crisis is over! Mage Ulyse has righted my error. This fantastic little artifact is too fragile for my hands, it seems!”

He laughed, smiling.

“After that fright, I’ve a mind to eat something. Where’s that Yellat? And my people! Have they been settled?”

“Yes, your Majesty. I have your meal right here. Would you like to take it now?”

“I’ll dine with my subjects! Lead me to them! Teres, would you come with me? And take more of these…pictures? Yourself, of course.”

“I can do that.”

Teres looked up, nodding. She turned to Trey. He lamely pointed back to the castle.

“I’ll find you—later. Gazi’s making me study and I can’t skip out.”

“Sure. I’ll take all the food photos for you.”

“Why would you take a picture of food? What a waste! Unless it was a true banquet.”

Flos and Teres headed into the city followed by a bevy of servants and—Trey stared. Was that some kind of glazed Yellat on a little platter? Why just one? And why was it so…? He looked around and jumped as Gazi put her hand on his shoulder.

“Let us return to your room, Trey Atwood.”

“Gazi! You jumped out a window!”

“Does that surprise you? You know I am capable of much more.”

The half-Gazer looked amused as Trey followed her back to his room. They were studying magic; she was his teacher and he her sometimes reluctant pupil. Trey gloomily sat back down and stared at his desk. A few tiny Sand Golems walked across it; they were his creations. Gazi studied the little Golems.

“You can keep them animated for longer durations. Good. But a waste of magic.”

“They’re just for fun.”

Trey shooed one of the Golems over the edge of the table. It went splat on the ground and reformed, trundling off. Gazi watched it with one eye and then gestured to Teres’ side.

“That phone my Lord broke. You have one too. Show me?”

Trey hesitated, but one of Gazi’s eyes was looking at it. He took it out and handed it to her. At least he had no fear of Gazi breaking his phone. She inspected it, and then turned it on. She even knew his passcode! Her eyes really did see everything. But Gazi paused and just stared at the screen. She frowned, and then pointed at the phone to Trey.

“It hurts my eyes. The little things in the screen. What are they?”

He blinked.

“What? The apps? Er, the icons?”

“No. The little things. This is made up of many, many, tiny things. Almost too small for you to see. But I see them.”

Trey blinked.

“What? Oh! Pixels. You can see them?”

“Clearly.”

“They make the screen by changing color. I think. When you say it hurts your eyes, Gazi—”

She shook her head.

“My eyes are too sensitive. I must unfocus to see the picture. Otherwise I simply see it differently. It…flashes.”

“You mean, the screen?”

“Incredibly quickly. It keeps changing. A picture redrawn many times each second to create…”

Gazi trailed off. Trey realized she was seeing the screen refresh. He stared, amazed. Her eyes were powerful! And those were just her four secondary eyes. She’d told him her main eye could see through almost anything. He’d never seen it—or seen her open her main eyelid, though. Apparently her eye had been damaged in a fight before she’d return to Reim. By someone else from Earth.

“I guess it’s just the screen uh, drawing itself, Gazi. The iPhones were made for Humans. I can’t see a thing, but I’ve seen what you’re talking about on old televisions.”

“Hm. And it can do many things like take pictures, or even moving ones? Will you show me?”

“Oh. Of course.”

Trey sat next to Gazi and began explaining the iPhone’s functions. He felt a bit like a tech salesman, and she was an avid customer. She kept pausing to ask him to demonstrate. Even the calculator doing math made her eyes widen.

“Impressive. What else can it do?”

“I can take videos.”

“Of anything?”

“Yup.”

“Then—record him.”

Gazi nodded out the window. Trey turned and saw she was looking across Reim. Flos was in the main street, visible from their window. He was at the center of a gathering, laughing, touching hands, clasping shoulders with the newcomers. Trey looked at Gazi. Then he slowly raised the phone, zoomed in, and pressed record.

He only took a few seconds of video. When he showed it to Gazi she blinked. It was a bit grainy from a distance; Trey didn’t have the newest model. What version of iPhone was out now he’d been gone for months? But Flos was clearly visible.

“It is a wonder. One my lord doesn’t underestimate, for all he boasts of our magic, I think. Is that forever, Trey?”

“Until you delete it, or the phone breaks. But you can save it other ways, Gazi.”

“I see. May I?”

“Sure.”

Gazi took the iPhone. She had no problem replaying the clip. She smiled at the little video of Flos. It was so genuine that it made Trey feel bad about his casual usage of the smartphone. It was valuable here. And he sat with the half-Gazer for a while.

“It cheered up his Majesty.”

“It did.”

She nodded at last. Trey looked up at her. Gazi offered him his phone back. And then her smile faded.

“Your sister did well, Trey. But my lord will still have to face it. Tiqr falls. But until that moment, let us distract him from it. I only wish…we had this decades past. Maybe then he would not have slumbered so long.”

She indicated the iPhone. Trey looked at it.

“Because…?”

“It would have recaptured his memories of her. And him. And Drevish too. All of us, the ones that fell and linger only in memory.”

Tottenval and Queravia. Two of his Chosen. And Flos had loved Queravia. He loved all of his Seven; they were his family. But Queravia had been special. Of that Trey was sure. He looked up at Gazi’s face.

“Aren’t there pictures of her?”

“There were. But he burned them all. Because they couldn’t capture her. I think he regrets it to this day.”

The young man sat in silence, absorbing this. He looked down at his phone and wondered how much more had been left uncaptured. At last, he looked up.

“She’s his old friend, isn’t she? The Empress of Beasts? And Tiqr’s going to fall.”

“Yes. She was a child when he claimed Tiqr. But he swore to guard Tiqr. Now, it falls because of his oath. So yes, Trey. He is waiting. Waiting for her to ask him for help.”

“And if she does? He swore an oath not to interfere as well. Would he?”

Gazi didn’t reply. She only looked out the window. And then she stood up.

“A message is coming. Follow me, Trey. Hurry.”



—-



The King of Destruction stood with Ulyse, listening to the [Mage] talk. He was the leader of Parasol Stroll, but in Orthenon’s absence, Ulyse and the other leaders like Gazi had begun filling leadership roles. Among them was settling the new arrivals, all of whom were weary from weeks of travel.

“Many of them are hungry. Most of them have nothing but the clothes they carry and few supplies, if any. They were chased from their homes, sometimes with their possessions confiscated.”

“Wounds? Injuries from travel?”

“Few. There were some casualties. Monster attacks, mainly, but people as well.”

“[Bandits]? On my lands?”

Flos’ brows creased. Ulyse shook his head.

“Not Reim, your Majesty. But their homeland. They were safe within Jecrass; King Raelt gave them free passage, even allowed them to barter for supplies. But many have become targets.”

“They must arrive safely, Ulyse. They are my people. Send word to the borders; patrols are to escort any claiming my sanctuary.”

The [Mage] nodded. Flos turned and looked at the [Healer].

“How fare my subjects?”

“Well enough, your Majesty. But some are weak. They will need recovery.”

Flos clicked his fingers.

“Bring out stamina potions!”

“We need not use them, your Majesty. They can recover in time.”

The [Healer] protested. Flos shook his head.

“What use are potions, if not to be used? Split them, by all means, but give any one in need of them a dose. And send word that we require more [Builders] from Hellios and Germina. Send them to colonize all the old villages and richest farmlands first. Speaking of which, how fairs Hellios?”

He addressed that question to Teres. She looked up from taking pictures of some of the refugees.

“Um—Orthenon says the country’s dissidence is mainly taken care of, your Majesty. Queen Calliope—”

“Former Queen. She abdicated.”

“—Is complying. She’s not happy, but Hellios is supplying…supplies. And Germina’s doing the same. Even better, actually. The Quarass has it all under control. She’s been asking to see you, actually.”

Flos smiled.

“Fair enough. Tell Orthenon I need him free to work elsewhere soon. Have that upstart [Prince] manage his own kingdom, perhaps. Or not, if he cannot be trusted. But I would rather have Hellios supplying resources and soldiers than be a thorn in my side later on. As for the Quarass—no doubt she has her lands under control. She does have the experience of the old Quarasses to draw on. She will seek me out when she is ready. Tell Orthenon to deal with her politely but decline her requests for my audience.”

“I’ll tell him, your Majesty.”

Teres blushed. She was tasked in keeping in touch with the [Steward]. Flos nodded at her, smiling. And then his head turned.

“What now?”

Someone was riding towards them down the street. Teres looked up and Ulyse turned, twirling his parasol. Gazi and Trey were hurrying from the castle at the same time.

“Your Majesty! Your Majesty!”

“What news? A [Message]?”

Flos called at the woman. The [Rider] drew up in front of Flos as Ulyse stepped forwards, shielding the two with his parasol. Some of Flos’ subjects were also wary, but the [Rider] was too panicked to care.

“We’re under attack! An army of twenty thousand to the west! They’ve crossed Reim’s borders!”

“What?”

Teres turned cold. She fumbled for her phone, staring at Flos. He looked up, his eyes full of alert. And then he paused.

“The west—”

Gazi appeared by his side. Flos turned to look at her.

“Gazi—”

“I heard, my lord. The west? Was it the message you desired?”

“No. No. Mine comes from further west still. And south. But the west—that can only mean one thing.”

Flos looked at Gazi. He and she chorused at the same time, along with Ulyse.

“Khelt.”

The [Mage] looked resigned as he lowered his parasol. Flos just frowned absently, Gazi smiled slightly. There was an uneasy murmur from the people around Flos.

“Where? I know the name, but where’s that?”

“It’s—the nation—west—of Reim. Exactly west.”

Trey clutched at a stitch in his side, panting. Gazi looked approving. Flos just sighed. He didn’t look alarmed. If anything, he seemed annoyed.

“King Fetohep is sending me a message, it seems. He had a knack for choosing the worst times. Normally I’d quite enjoy receiving it. But not now. Rider, how fast is the army moving?”

“At a sprint, sir! They’re moving fast—”

“Armored?”

“Yes—”

“Bows?”

Flos was stroking his chin. The [Rider] shook her head. The King of Destruction sighed.

“Typical, then.”

“What’s the message this King Fetohep wants to send, Flos?”

Teres’ question made the people around her stare at her. The King of Destruction turned his head.

“The army is the message, Teres. I should imagine he wishes to force me to speak with him about some issue. I can imagine…but I’m occupied. And I do not care for Fetohep. We do not get along.”

He folded his arms, frowning. The [Rider] looked from Ulyse to Gazi. The half-Gazer held up a hand and turned to Flos. Her eyes were moving, Trey saw. If you wanted to know what was happening next, all you had to do was watch Gazi’s eyes.

One of her eyes always looked at her [King] when he was nearby, but the other three usually roamed, looking for threats or focusing on other people. Now, two were pointed the other way. Through her skull. Trey shuddered, but he traced the path of her gaze and saw—

“My lord, another group of riders. Armed. Forty in number. The Quarass of Germina.”

“Now?”

Flos blinked at Gazi. But then he turned and saw them too. A group of mounted people were riding towards Reim. Trey saw that most of them were adults, but two were small. Child-sized. A boy and a girl, he knew, even if he couldn’t make them out. The King of Destruction nodded.

“It seems this new Quarass isn’t the type to waste time. And her arrival is fortuitous. Ill-timed, but—let us greet her.”

“Your Majesty, what about the army?”

The [Rider] panicked as Flos strode towards the north gate, leading the crowd with him. The [King] glanced back.

“I will deal with it. They are all on foot, aren’t they? Fetohep wouldn’t send twenty thousand riders.”

“No, Majesty—”

“Then they will wait while I greet the Quarass. Attend to me. What is your name, [Messenger]?”

“Finl Ulesey, your Majesty! I was born in Hellios, but my father fought in your armies.”

The young woman’s eyes lit up. Flos smiled.

“Well met, Finl! Now, all of you, with me. Trey, Teres, don’t dawdle! Keep up!”

He strode forwards, and like a river, his subjects, Ulyse, Gazi, Finl, Trey, and Teres all followed. Flos spread his arms, smiling, as the Quarass of Germina and her escort entered the gates of his city.

“Quarass of Germina! What brings you to Reim? My greetings upon you!”

The booming voice made the forty-some people look up. They were all citizens of Germina. And months ago, they had been enemies of Flos. He had killed the last Quarass, and the burning gazes some of them gave him were proof of their lingering enmity. But—Trey had been to Quarass. And if their hatred for Flos was a burning candle, it was nothing to their admiration for the Quarass.

The Quarass had died. But she had been found again. And the new Quarass was a young girl. No more than a child. She was dismounting from her horse with the help of two people—a young boy, practically a street tough, and a noblewoman. Two of her sacred protectors, sworn to guard her with their lives.

The third stood before her. The Quarass waited until she was on the ground. Then, her escort moved back, kneeling in the street. And the young girl walked forwards. She paused in front of Flos and inclined her head. Just so.

“King of Destruction. I thank you for your greetings. May the Shield Kingdoms ward you. Germina gives you its greetings, King Reimarch. As do I. I have come to speak with you of matters of state.”

The Quarass’ voice was pitched low, her words chosen with care. But that was not what made Trey and the others shudder. It was the nuance of her tone, the intelligence behind each word. It was as if an adult was speaking through a child’s voice.

And not just any adult. Trey looked at the Quarass’ eyes. He saw a child with eyes as old as forever. Generations of Quarasses before her made up the being in front of her. She had all the knowledge of the past. Centuries, possibly millennia of it. She regarded the crowd behind Flos, her eyes lingering on Teres and Trey’s faces, then Gazi’s, then flicking back to Flos.

The King of Destruction nodded, giving the Quarass the same level nod. They were hardly in a formal setting, but the two had a formality of their own.

“And I am pleased to offer you Reim’s water, Quarass. You are welcome guests. And it is fitting we should speak of such matters; I have been deciding how best to speak with you. I trust Germina is settled to your liking?”

“Yes. It has been some small task. But your [Steward] was most capable. Germina stands ready to aid Reim.”

The Quarass didn’t even blink. Flos nodded, as if it were only natural.

“Hellios is far less amenable than Germina. But that is a topic for a more sedate setting. Quarass, I confess that I cannot give you my fullest attention at this moment. I await a [Message]. And I am told just now that a force of twenty thousand has entered my lands from the west.”

The escort reacted to the news with clear alarm, looking up from their kneeling positions. The Quarass didn’t appear at all surprised. Her eyes flickered for just a moment before she nodded.

“Ah. Khelt.”

“Just so! King Fetohep is riled. It seems I needs must deal with him. Forgive me for the urgency of the task, but you know his nature.”

“Not at all.”

The Quarass inclined her head. Flos nodded once more, and turned. Briskly, he addressed the [Messenger] and his subjects.

“Ulyse, the Quarass’ guests. Find Mizzi; no, I’m sure she’s already seen our guests. Kindly escort them to her.”

“Yes, your Majesty. If the honored guests of Germina will follow me?”

The [Mage] bowed. The Quarass’ escort hesitated, clearly uneasy about leaving them alone. One of them, the noblewoman, bent to whisper to the Quarass, but the girl replied softly. The escort looked at her and she nodded. They followed Ulyse without question. The Quarass stood alone—save for the young boy and six cloaked bodyguards. Flos paid them no mind. He was turning to the [Messenger].

“Now, Khelt. Finl Ulesey, ride to the southern border. Send word to Mars to return from the front at once, to intercept the army and then hold our western border with Khelt. Gazi, join Mars. Take as many [Soldiers] as you need and the Serpent Hunters and Parasol Stroll as well. No casualties.”

“By your leave, my lord.”

Gazi bowed, smiling. Flos waved a hand.

“Very good. I will answer Fetohep in my own time. Now, to the palace! Quarass, my apologies for the delay. Need you any refreshments from your trip? Allow me to introduce you to my aides. Trey and Teres. I believe you know Teres?”

“Yes.”

The Quarass’ eyes were unblinking as she stared at Teres. The King of Destruction swept back to the palace as the crowd dispersed, the [Messenger] disappearing in a flurry of hooves. Neither ruler seemed worried by the army. Trey was unnerved by the tiny Quarass, but Teres couldn’t help it.

“Can Gazi and Mars really hold back twenty thousand soldiers without casualties, Flos?”

The Quarass looked back at her sharply. The impropriety of addressing Flos by his name made the others stir, but the King of Destruction only smiled.

“It shouldn’t be difficult. They’ll have to employ potions and we may take some wounds, but we should hack apart the twenty thousand with minimal effort so long as they stay careful.”

“But won’t this King Fetohep be unhappy about that many deaths?”

Flos laughed at the chagrin on Teres and Trey’s face. Even the Quarass looked amused.

“That’s what you thought? Ah, Teres! I forgot you don’t know of Khelt. Fear not! The twenty thousand are fully expendable. They’re just zombies.”

“What?”

Flos waved the question away.

“Teres, I am sure someone can explain. Ulyse, perhaps. But I am entertaining a guest of state. Quarass, do forgive me. But I trust my two attendants, young though they may be. As much as you and your three.”

“So I see. I take no offense. You must speak to me of them. As well as other matters. Your awakening, for one. And Germina’s future and your ambitions.”

Flos’ gaze sharpened. He was wary of her, Trey realized. Just a bit. He looked up as they approached the palace. Ulyse was striding back to them, Trey saw. He’d been leading the escort, but the [Mage] had abruptly broken off, leaving them there.

Trey saw the [Mage]’s hand was raised. He was heading towards Flos. And the King of Destruction straightened. Premonition flickered in his gaze. And something—some instinct, a feeling in the air, in Flos’ face—told Trey this was what he had been waiting for. He held up a hand.

“Ulyse. What is it?”

He already knew. The leader of Parasol Stroll bowed slightly.

“Your Majesty. I have just been contacted. A communication spell is desired with all haste.”

He paused.

“It comes from Tiqr. The Empress of Beasts wishes to speak with you, your Majesty.”

“Indeed. Ulyse, I will receive her. Prepare a mirror.”

Flos Reimarch straightened. Teres saw him square his shoulders, and then relax. And suddenly he looked like the same figure she’d seen at the window. And she realized that her phone, the pot with the Yellat, his returning subjects—even the Quarass and Khelt’s army—had been only a distraction. The King of Destruction looked at Ulyse. Then he turned to the small Quarass. She was looking up at him, her eyes knowing and gauging. Watchful.

“We must speak indeed, Quarass. But a more pressing matter calls me. My city is open to you. We shall speak this night, I think. But Nsiia and I have much to say.”

He waited for the Quarass to nod her assent, and then he turned. Trey saw him walk back to the castle. And the rain, which had stopped, began to fall again. The King of Destruction looked up.

“So much to say. And so little time.”



—-



He smelled blood on the wind. Blood and death. And Orjin, Strongest of Pomle knew Tiqr’s end was near. The battle called him. Not for the lust of slaughter, but to see. To see how the Empress of Beasts met her end.

He stood in his little camp, balancing on his toes on a bit of gravel and broken stones. Working on his balance and strength of his toes. And Orjin was aware of everything around him. The sky, the ground. The distant conflict on the wind, the traces of armies, who had marched on Tiqr’s heart. He knew it all.

And he knew the Drake was approaching him from the side before he opened his eyes. Salii, the [Secretary], stopped and cleared her throat. Orjin opened his eyes.

“What is it, Salii?”

“The King of Destruction is communicating with the Empress of Beasts. On the eve of Tiqr’s fall. They have just begun speaking by communication spell.”

The Drake pronounced the words with all the seriousness he had ever heard in her voice. The Strongest of Pomle didn’t blink. He stared ahead, balancing without using his arms.

“How do you know this, Salii?”

Her tail lashed anxiously. She tapped her clipboard, watching his posture, his face.

“I’m a [Secretary], Orjin. It’s my job to know things. I have Skills and contacts.”

The [Martial Artist] frowned. That might be true, but even he was aware of the significance of what Salii was telling him.

“Even within Tiqr’s walls during a siege?”

The Drake paused.

“Let’s just say that there are concerned relatives of the refugees we took in. Pomle might not have fought during the war, but we have given succor to Tiqr’s citizens. And this news isn’t exactly covert. If I know, other nations know. And that conversation won’t be secret either.”

“How so?”

“The conversation. It’s going through Wistram. Tiqr doesn’t have a [Diviner] or [Seer] or anyone capable of sending a [Scrying] spell at the moment. So she has to request a third party to link her scrying mirror with Reim’s.”

“Hm.”

Magic. Orjin waited, thinking.

“…How does this reveal the contents of the conversation to other nations?”

Salii shook her head.

“Besides the fact that Wistram needs to maintain the spell? It’s been said that Wistram watches everything, Orjin. That’s the rumor, at least. They can watch you through your scrying orb, and the Mage’s Guilds send every [Message] to the academy. It’s never been proven, of course. If it was, it would be alarming.”

“I’ve never heard of this rumor.”

“You don’t work in the same circles I do. Orjin, this conversation is significant.”

“Reim is far away from Tiqr. Too far for even a Garuda to fly in a day. You told me Oliphant will be besieged by tomorrow morning. How can the King of Destruction aid Tiqr now? Is the Lord of the Skies nearby?”

The Drake shook her head.

“No. But the conversation is significant. Neither Empress Nsiia nor the King of Destruction have communicated once since Tiqr was attacked. I would have known, believe me. It was what everyone was waiting for. And now? Orjin, I think I might know what Nsiia is planning. Or perhaps the King of Destruction. It’s down to refugees.”

Orjin knew Salii wasn’t going to go away until he asked the question. He wished she’d just say things plainly. Pomle’s warriors didn’t waste time.

“What about them?”

“I’ve been running the numbers. You do know that Pomle has taken in over sixty thousand of Tiqr’s citizens during this war?”

“I know.”

Pomle was small, and the sudden influx of people couldn’t be missed. It had only one major oasis, and all the fleeing citizens had naturally settled around that spot. The training grounds felt overly crowded, for all Salii had done to organize the refugees into a single camp that wouldn’t spread out too far and interrupt Pomle’s warriors’ training. Orjin had moved his camp far away, but he still heard them sometimes on the wind.

“So we have sixty thousand citizens. What of it?”

Salii made an impatient sound.

“It may be a lot to Pomle, but Pomle is barely populated. Orjin, do you know how many people live within Tiqr?”

“No.”

Orjin’s voice was as disinterested as could be. The Drake sighed.

“Hundreds of thousands have fled towards the Kilalle Steppes. And more elsewhere. Many were captured, turned into slaves—many more fought and died. But Tiqr is a nation. If the coalition took all their people as slaves, they’d have their hands completely full just trying to manage that many people. So. If some were killed, joined the army, fled, or were taken captive, what happened to the rest?”

“You know the answer. Tell me.”

Salii flipped through her clipboard. She came to a little map and raised it. She had to walk around to show it to Orjin as he stared ahead, still balancing on the tiny rocks.

“They’re right here. In Oliphant. That’s an army, Orjin. One that outnumbers Nerrhavia’s forces, even with the hundred thousand reinforcements they received. It might even outnumber all the coalition’s armies combined.”

Now Orjin saw what she was getting at. He blinked; it was the best reaction she’d gotten from him so far. He considered the idea.

“A large force, yes. But untrained. They’ll be slaughtered even if they hold the high ground. Against trained [Soldiers]? Without Skills, they will die by the dozen for each [Soldier] that falls.”

“Yes. But they could still force back an army by sheer weight of numbers. It might not work against Illivere’s Golems or the chariots if they break the walls—but think, Orjin! The Empress of Beasts is communicating with the King of Destruction. Do you remember some of his Skills? His three Units? What about his Skill? [Army of the King]?”

She threw up her claws, excited, apprehensive. Orjin thought about that, and the legends of the King of Destruction. He took it all in, what she was suggesting. If Empress Nsiia was petitioning Flos Reimarch on the eve of Tiqr’s fall…

“Oh.”

He looked at her. Salii waited. Orjin paused.

Then he turned around and went back to balancing on his toes. Salii stared at his back. After a moment she threw her clipboard on the ground and stalked off to find someone else who would be sufficiently amazed.



—-



And it was the end. It sounded of silence. The beating of her heart. She heard no lamentations in the street, no drums of war. They would come. But the sound of oblivion waiting was silence—and the sounds of her body. Her heart sounded too loud, echoing in her chest.

Her palace was empty. Empress Nsiia sat on her throne, holding a mirror. A scrying device. She waited, as the magic spell connecting her with Reim was established. As the King of Destruction was summoned to give her a fitting end. And what that might be only she and he knew.

But many could imagine. And they feared the timing, just as they feared Flos Reimarch. Perhaps beyond reason; surely, the legend of the [King] had far outstripped the man he once was. But what if it had not? That was the fear that kept those who thought of the world as ‘theirs’ up at night. The fear that they were tiny people who had felt the giant stir.

Empress Nsiia sat by herself. But she was not alone. Not unwatched. As she shifted, adjusting her headband where a single, huge feather hung, the cracked mask of bone sitting on the armrest of her throne, they spoke in quiet voices. But she could not hear them and they were thousands of miles away.

On the isle, in the citadel known as the Academy of Wistram, sat three [Mages]. They were listening, of course, watching Empress Nsiia through their own scrying orb. They could see through her mirror, hijacking the same spell that was about to let her speak with the King of Destruction. She had no idea. It was an ability Wistram kept secret.

The three watchers were all leaders of the academy. Powerful figures known the world over. Archmages, a title that represented the height of magical power and the ambitions of [Mages]. Archmage Feor, Archmage Viltach, and Archmage Nailihuaile were all present, half of the Archmages in the entire world. A rarity given the usual political machinations of the academy.

Feor, the half-Elven Archmage, leader of the most powerful Centrist faction, a master of almost every conceivable school of magic, sat in the center, his brows furrowed his hands steepled. His hair was grey, turning white; he was old, even for a half-Elf, and he had lived in the world for nearly two centuries.

Archmage Nailihuaile sat next to him, on his left. She was a Star Lamia, known most for her skill in the enchanting school of magic and her erratic, scattered, cheerful personality. Leader of the Revivalist faction within Wistram’s walls. Her posture was erect; she used no chair, but a cushion as she played with her staff, watching Nsiia’s face.

Lastly, Archmage Viltach, on Feor’s right. Human, and the head of his Libertarian faction, which was also mostly Human. It was rare to see him in Wistram’s halls—he spent just as much time on Terandria. He had come for this conversation alone, and he rested one arm on the table the three sat at, murmuring little spells to adjust the scrying mirror’s image, enhance it, change the perspective to see the room and Nsiia fully.

Three Archmages were absent, but it mattered little. These three Archmages held the majority of Wistram’s power. Not all Archmages were equal; it was a title that marked them as first among Wistram’s Council, it in itself a ruling body made up of the most influential [Mages]. They were all Archmages. Not [Archmages].

Izril’s lone Archmage and Baleros’ second were absent as befitted their personalities. As for Chandrar’s lone Archmage—well, Archmage Amerys had not been seen since the King of Destruction had announced his return. Rumors were spreading of why she was missing. And none of the Archmages in this room were inclined to speak the truth.

They were waiting, the three. Waiting for Flos Reimarch to connect his scrying mirror and hear what they would say. The anticipation added to the nervousness in the room. No—not nervousness—they were Archmages, far removed from the conflict. But…trepidation. No, speculation. They were concerned, that was all. Concerned.

“Tiqr’s going to lose. Which isn’t ideal, obviously, but it’s better than them being on Flos’ side. There’s nothing he can do about it now; he’d have done it at the start. That’s what we agreed on.”

Archmage Nailihuaile broke the silence after another minute of watching Nsiia sitting. Feor and Viltach looked up. The half-Elven [Mage] paused; it was Viltach who replied testily.

“So we believe, Archmage Nailihuaile. But anything is possible. Does Tiqr have any more surprises left in store? The coalition has already struggled to get this far. Those elephants put up a ferocious defense, as did the Laughing Brigade and Tiqr’s army. Has the Empress of Beasts any artifacts she might use in a last-ditch effort?”

Archmage Naili frowned, flicking her tongue out. Her scales shone, some with stored magical energy.

“Not to my knowledge, no. I know she’s got two artifacts. See the headband she’s wearing? One feather left. And that is her only powerful relic to my knowledge, aside from the spear.”

“She’s used the rest, then. What does the headband do?”

Viltach might have guessed, but he deferred to Naili’s expertise. The Archmage was an [Enchanter] after all. She frowned.

“I don’t know. I didn’t hear reports of her using it in battle and obviously we couldn’t get anyone to watch for us. But that feather is a…Roc’s feather. And that headband looks like a variant of a wildform-type artifact. I’d have to actually be there to analyze the magic, obviously, but I’m betting each feather gives her some magic from the bird it came from. For a little bit. Thirty minutes? Maybe less. Definitely not an hour.”

Feor nodded. That was his appraisal too. He spoke softly, watching Nsiia’s eyes. She looked worn-down. But not despairing; she looked almost feverish as she shifted again. Like someone driven to the brink. A cornered animal. It was a look that told him to be wary.

“And the Roc’s feather?”

“Makes her bigger, obviously. Have you seen a Roc? That’s literally all they are. Huge. Eggs taste nice, though.”

Viltach made a grunting sound. He tapped on his pointed beard, frowning down his nose at Nsiia.

“That settles it from Tiqr’s side alone. Tiqr never had many relic-class artifacts. The King of Destruction plundered most from the nations he defeated; that she has even two is due to Tiqr’s alliance with Reim. The Tusk of Tiqr is a fairly standard spear enchanted with recall and piercing enchantments. It can also summon any elephant species in the region to the wearer’s aid, but it’s largely useless to the Empress.”

“It’s pretty good. She could throw it through General-whats-his-name. Kill the head and the army runs off, maybe?”

Viltach shook his head.

“Thelican. He won’t approach. He’s a conservative attacker. Strategic.”

“Cowardly. He stays behind his army for everything.”

“Pragmatic.”

“Coward.”

“Archmage Naili, the purpose of a [General] is not to take to the front like some barbarian—”

“Silence. The King of Destruction is here.”

The two bickering Archmages fell silent at once. Feor turned his head. A second scrying orb in the table came to life. They saw Flos Reimarch. He too was sitting on his throne. He looked old. That was always what struck Feor, every single time. Fleethoof, the King of Destruction—he’d seen them when they were young. He kept forgetting how fast everyone else aged.

But Flos Reimarch still brought a moment of silence into the room where the Archmages sat. He stared blankly into the scrying mirror and then his eyes suddenly focused. Empress Nsiia had been staring past her mirror at something. She glanced down. And sat up. The two ruler’s eyes met.

“Nsiia.”

The word was a sigh. Flos Reimarch stared at the Empress of Beasts. She looked at the King of Destruction, her eyes wide. Feor saw the same emotions cross Nsiia’s face for a moment.

“Flos. You look so old.”

“I do? I was barely your age when we met. No. Younger.”

The King of Destruction looked amused. Nsiia blinked at him. She shook her head.

“We have not spoken for over a decade. And then it was so brief. I still remember the [King] who strode into this throne room and stood before my father. Am I the girl you remember?”

Flos paused. His eyes searched Nsiia, and he shook his head slightly.

“No. You look far different than I remember you, Nsiia. I remember a girl. I see now an [Empress]. I greet you, Empress Nsiia of Tiqr. Empress of Beasts.”

She nodded slowly.

“And I you, Flos Reimarch. [King] of Reim. King of Destruction.”

The two held each other’s gazes. The Archmages shifted. They were uninvited voyeurs to this moment. And they could not guess at the emotions conveyed without words. Viltach was tense, a magical quill transcribing the conversation. He cared little for the emotion of the moment. Naili looked as if she were watching a story—and it was. Feor just listened, searching for anything he could use to understand the King of Destruction, that could aid him.

The conversation was intimate and formal by turns. Flos looked past Nsiia, searching.

“I remember an elephant. Your protector and friend, you called him. Where is he? His name was…”

“Thef. Thef is dead. He was slain by an arrow. Alked Fellbow struck him down and Thef died, giving me time to flee.”

Nsiia’s face hardened. Her eyes flashed wild. Flos bowed his head.

“I am sorry.”

At their table, Naili sat up and looked upset.

“He is? I liked that elephant!”

“Archmage Naili, be silent.”

Feor snapped at her. Nsiia was shaking her head.

“…end upon us all. My [General], Vasraf, holds the walls. But the coalition’s armies have all encircled Oliphant. Ten, and Nerrhavia’s the largest by far. They will fall upon us come dawn, or so Vasraf tells me. Hence my conversation. It has been overdue.”

“Yes it has. I have been waiting for it. Let us speak, then, Nsiia.”

The Archmages leaned forwards as one. Nsiia adjusted the mirror. Her eyes found Flos’; the Archmages had trouble looking at her bright eyes. They had all seen death, and this was the gaze of someone on that edge they had all walked. Staring into the depths.

“Tiqr will fall, Flos Reimarch. My people have fled, lie dead or have been enslaved. The animals of Tiqr are likewise gone or fallen, defending this land. These other nations have torn Tiqr apart, and they will beset us at the last. This is Tiqr’s final hour. What say you of it?”

The King of Destruction bowed his head.

“What say I? I knew Tiqr in its glory. When I marched into your lands, your father stood against me and dared me to try to take Tiqr. That every child, animal, and stone would fight me to the end. I did not doubt him and invited Tiqr to my kingdom. Your people fought with mine until my slumber. Proud friends of the wild.”

He gestured at Nsiia’s headband, the single huge feather remaining.

“Your father gave his life, riding Leihfil the Roc, dooming hundreds of Terandria’s [Griffin Riders] in battle when they came to strike a blow at my heart. I mourn it all. But your father’s words hold true. Tiqr has bled them for every step forwards the invaders have taken.”

Empress Nsiia only nodded. Flos continued, heavily.

“And yet, Tiqr dies. You have heard of my vow of peace, which led Tiqr to this moment. Nsiia. Do you hold it against me?”

“Of course. Were you never to issue it, Tiqr might not have fallen.”

Nsiia’s eyes flashed. Flos nodded. She stared at him, biting one lip hard enough to pierce skin.

“Peace. Why would you bother awakening from your slumber just to announce peace?”

“To prove I do not make war without cause, Nsiia. I never did. Or should I do battle with every nation in Chandrar at once? Even I would lose such a war. Probably.”

Flos shook his head. Nsiia closed her eyes.

“So you issue it and your enemies plot to remove your allies.”

“Yes. I did not expect it, Nsiia. You did not ally with Reim. The nations that attack Tiqr have no cause.”

She nodded, distracted. Feor saw Viltach moving impatiently, opening his mouth. The half-Elf gave him a freezing gaze and Viltach subsided. Nsiia was staring absently past the mirror.

“You know, I could have declared Tiqr as yours and asked for your protection. I could have given my people to Reim as we did two decades ago and dared the other nations to violate your sovereignty. And they would have.”

“Most likely. Which is why I did not ask. But if you had requested it after Tiqr was attacked—”

Flos leaned on his throne, his face disturbed. Nsiia snapped at him, sitting up, furious.

“And I would not have offered! Tiqr joined you, King of Destruction. But we are our own nation. Proud! We will not bow to invaders or hide behind your sword! We fought.”

She paused. He looked at her and inclined his head silently. Nsiia sat back, slumping again. Her bare shoulders leaning against her throne of ivory.

“And we died. Thef died. My soldier’s blood waters Tiqr’s soil. My animals, my subjects I was pledged to protect—all lie dead. They died defending their homes. And these armies march onwards, destroying. Slaying us all in the name of—what? Justice? They do not even dare Reim’s borders, so they attack us for not condemning you as a monster.”

“I know. Nsiia. It is a harsh fate. One I would have avoided had I known what consequences my words held.”

She laughed hollowly, shaking her head.

“It is Chandrar’s legacy. Kingdoms rise and fall. Tiqr is but one more. They are waiting. Soon, they will strike. And Tiqr will fall. But enough of grief. Enough! I did not call you to condemn you, Flos Reimarch. Nor was it to wail lamentations. You have something I desire. A fitting end.”

Flos didn’t reply. He was waiting. The Archmages stared at each other, and then the orb. Naili rolled it closer so they could stare down at Nsiia’s face. She gestured past her throne, tilting her scrying orb so they could see the silent city, the rooftops visible from where she sat. Her throne room was open; elephants and animals could enter it freely. None filled it now.

“My beloved citizens hide behind Oliphant’s walls, Flos. They would not flee. Many have, but many more came here. To stand with me in Tiqr’s final hour. Do you know how many?”

“No.”

“Six hundred thousand.”

Viltach made a sound. Feor looked up.

“What? How?”

“Six hundred thousand?”

Flos’ voice was echoed by Vilatch’s in incredulity. He stood up.

“That’s impossible. There were hundreds of thousands of refugees fleeing in every direction!”

“Well, Tiqr’s big. No wonder many went to the capital. That’s…a lot more than we thought, though. A lot more. She must have been hiding them! They’re not on the walls!”

Naili’s tale was curling uneasily. Feor looked at them, then waved a hand for silence. Nsiia was nodding, replying to Flos as he leaned forwards, frowning.

“It is good that these armies won’t wait to starve us out. Oliphant’s food stores are already running low from feeding them so long. We could last another two days before starvation sets in.”

“You did not ask them to flee?”

“I asked. They would rather die than flee and risk enslavement, or live without their homes. Most did flee. But this is where they have spent generations!”

The Empress of Beasts snapped back. Flos only nodded. She calmed herself, breathing more quickly. Now there was a stir in the air, a prickle on Feor’s skin. Foreboding.

“Six hundred thousand. And my army still holds my walls, though they have been torn away. Maybe you didn’t predict this, Flos, as you said. Or perhaps you did. If you were so calculating, you were not the man I remember. But a [King] sometimes makes dark choices, so perhaps you only saw the opportunity. I am an [Empress] and I see it now. Dark choices. Branching paths, all of which lead to nothing. Nowhere.”

“Nsiia.”

“The other nations have demanded my surrender. Do you know what the Siren of Savere offered me? Torture, my citizens her slaves. I, a plaything. Yisame dressed her words more prettily, but the end is the same. Tiqr would be caged like animals. I would be leashed. I would prefer death over that. But a worthy death. A fitting end to my home. King of Destruction. Will you listen to my request?”

“Yes.”

She sat up. Empress Nsiia gazed at Flos Reimarch as the Archmages waited. She took a deep breath. And then she spoke in a level tone.

“Flos Reimarch. I would swear Tiqr to you. If you are willing, I would pledge my life by blood to serve you until the end of my days. To fight for your dream once more. Make me one of your Seven. And give me my end. Tiqr may die, but we will destroy everything with us.”

Her eyes burned. In their room, Naili dropped her staff. It clattered to the floor. Viltach jerked.

“What did she—”

Feor pointed. The [Complete Hush] spell hit Viltach and enveloped the room in silence. Only the scrying orbs were excluded. Nsiia’s voice continued onwards, growing louder.

“I know the strength you gave your Seven. And I know the power you can give an army! If we are your subjects, you can revive your units of old. The Sorcelled Blades! We have a hundred enchanted weapons. Wasn’t that all you ever needed? There are not any [Illusionists] to recreate the Mirage of Chandrar. But I have my citizens. King of Destruction, turn Tiqr into your weapon of old. Resurrect the Dreamers of Reim! Summon your [Army of the King]!”

There was no sound from the Archmages, spell or not. They watched Flos slowly raise his head. Nsiia’s eyes were wild as she stood. He spoke slowly.

“You wish to turn your army, your people into one of my armies? My Dreamers of Reim?”

“And your Sorcelled Blades. Use your Skill, Flos. As dawn breaks and the armies assault Tiqr, transform us into a sword. Give me destruction! And give them death!”

Nsiia was shouting. The Empress of Beasts stalked her throne room. And she stared at the distant camps in the night.

“I have seen your Dreamers. I know their strength. My people are no less than the Dreamers who brought nations to ruin. Think of it, Flos! Unbreakable. Undefeatable! Tiqr could wipe out the armies besieging it. All of them! Turn every last of my citizens into a Dreamer and use your Skills and we will take them, no matter the cost. I will fight until my dying breath.”

“And then? You might fall, even were I to do all you ask. But what if you won? With Tiqr in ruins, what would be next? Your enemies would still assail you, again and again. The Dreamers are not invincible.”

Flos’ voice was quiet. Nsiia turned on him.

“I know that. Tiqr is already gone, Flos. What remains are our grudges. After this battle, even should I live or fall, we will strike back, until none remain. I will bring down the nations who destroyed Tiqr. Savere first. I will march on the Siren and kill her myself. And then Nerrhavia.”

“You will never conquer Nerrhavia, not with every last citizen. My [Army of the King] will last you a single battle. And Nerrhavia’s armies will drown even the Dreamers of Reim in numbers and the strength of their soldiers.”

“Then we will tear the String People away. Fray them until Nerrhavia is torn. They may not die, but they will bleed for all they are made of cloth. Think of it, King of Destruction. Your foes to the south will be ruined.”

Viltach was trying to speak. Trying to shout in the silence. The horror on his face was a reflection of Feor’s own. Nsiia was pacing. Flos was still.

“These nations made no war on me, Nsiia. If I gave you my strength, I would forswear myself. How would you answer that betrayal?”

For a moment the Empress of Beasts stared into the scrying mirror and the Archmages felt as if she were trying to look for them. Then she shook her head, the same desperate smile upon her face.

“Who would know? We would not write our allegiance on our chests. And why would it matter if we did? Who would gainsay me from asking for your aid today? This is Tiqr’s war. I only ask you to help me end it as I please. I will even declare my loyalty to you tomorrow; give this coalition a chance to flee.”

“They will not. Your words would give them little choice, Nsiia.”

“Just as they gave Tiqr little choice but to be destroyed and enslaved or fight until the end? I call it fair. And I care little for my legacy. My home is already gone. What is your answer, Flos?”

He did not reply. The Archmages sat, frozen. Naili was trying to dispel Feor’s spell, but too rattled to do it properly. Nsiia held out her hand, imploringly.

“I may die tomorrow. Or when I tear the Siren from her throne. Or long after that. Perhaps I will live. But give me the strength, Flos Reimarch. Give me my destruction and Tiqr its end. Do not let us pass from this earth without punishing those who would erase us! You owe us that.”

“That is true.”

The King of Destruction rose. He looked at Nsiia. And he bowed his head. His eyes closed for a long moment. And when he opened them, the King of Destruction’s pupils held a cold depth to them. Feor looked into those depths and saw ruin. Nsiia smiled, baring her teeth. Flos Reimarch paused. And nodded.

“I must think on my reply. You will know my answer by dawn, Empress.”

“Heed my last request, Flos. Ask what you would of me. Name your foe and I will instruct my [General] to follow if I should fall. Let us fall with dignity.”

Nsiia urged Flos. He bowed his head, nodding. Feor barely heard them ending the conversation. He saw Naili fumbling with her staff, then a pop as she dispelled the [Hush] spell. But it was still quiet as both orbs turned clear, empty. The Archmages looked at each other. Then they began to panic.

“She’s going to launch a suicide attack! She’ll destroy the coalition! It’s madness!”

Viltach bellowed, pounding the table. He looked around at Naili and Feor.

“He cannot do this! It violates the spirit of his proclamation of peace!”

“Can’t? All she has to do is declare for him! He can turn her—can he turn her into one of his Seven? He can definitely form a unit. Right? Is she wrong? Tell me she’s wrong.”

Naili was lashing her tail. Feor shook his head.

“He would have said so.”

“He cannot do it. He proclaimed peace!”

“But no one knows about this conversation. And technically, the war against Tiqr was all to curb his power. You could argue that this has always been Reim’s war, fought by proxy—”

Naili was looking at Feor. The Archmage was flicking his fingers, casting [Calm] spells on everyone, including himself. Viltach resisted the spell, but Naili let him cast it on her. Feor sighed as his heartbeat slowed. He thought, employing frigid logic, ignoring his emotions.

“Viltach, calm yourself. The King of Destruction may well grant Empress Nsiia’s request. We should not focus on whether he will, but if he does—we need to send a declaration explaining what has occurred and condemning his actions the instant it occurs.”

“If it occurs. He might say no.”

Viltach was clinging to that. Naili looked at Flos. She shook her head.

“What are the odds when he says yes? The coalition has ten armies outside Oliphant. It’s just one unit, right? The Dreamers of Reim. I’d nearly forgotten about that unit. And the [Army of the King]? Do you know what it does, definitively?”

Feor and Viltach both shook their heads. Viltach muttered, clenching and unclenching his fists.

“Not definitively. But I know it’s his most powerful Skill. And I’ve seen what it does. The Empress of Beasts must know.”

“Can he turn her into one of his Seven? Would that make her even stronger?”

Archmage Feor ignored that. He was recalling the odds, trying to weigh stories about the Dreamers of Reim and historical battles. Six hundred thousand civilians against…he looked up

“We must communicate these facts with our allies. The coalition might be wiped out if they are attacked.”

Viltach and Naili looked at him, palely. The Star Lamia’s tail swished.

“We tell them we know what we heard? Is that wise?”

“If the coalition doesn’t prepare against an attack…fighting the Dreamers on the walls would be suicidal.”

The Human Archmage nodded. He was resigned now, Feor saw.

“Agreed. Who do we warn?”

“Nerrhavia, certainly. The academy has fairly good relations with Queen Yisame and they are the largest check on Reim’s southern borders. Their army is also the one that can shift the battle. Thelican commands. Send a [Message] spell. Highest priority. No—we’ll communicate via speech.”

The other Archmages nodded. Viltach ran a hand through his combed hair, rattled.

“Who else? Illivere.”

“You think so?”

Naili looked at Viltach. He paused.

“Of course. The Federation is a strong ally of Wistram and Magus-Crafter Femithain is a fellow [Mage], even if he never attended the academy.”

“Do you know him?”

“I’ve met him. Very astute. A steadying influence. Willing to make acceptable changes—certainly an ally. Not a powerful one compared to his neighbors, but it would be a heavy loss if he fell. He is in gravest danger since he remains at the front.”

Feor nodded.

“Agreed, I will handle Thelican. Viltach, Illivere?”

“Yes. Naili—”

The Star Lamia frowned.

“Savere? The Siren of Tides has…contacts among some of our members.”

The Archmages paused. They looked at each other. Naili’s face twisted. Viltach shook his head, looking much the same. Feor nodded slowly.

“Savere can wait. Archmage Nailihuaile, speak to Demios’ [King]—and then—”



—-



The armies surrounding Tiqr were unusually busy as night began to lighten. Dawn was still an hour or two away, but it was odd to see so much movement.

Not in Savere’s camp of course. The infamous Saverian irregulars had little discipline. They were good fighters, but they were, as noted, made up of disreputable classes. Thus, they drank, enjoyed themselves, and ate even on the eve of battle. Slaves circulated the camps, trying not to attract attention, as the ‘soldiers’ ate from plundered goods.

They had little fear of attack; they were besieging Oliphant and as far as they were concerned, other armies could fight and die for them. If Savere’s army and its leader, the [Bandit Lady] in charge of the army had any concern, it was to secure the Empress of Beasts. The Siren of Savere had demanded it, so they’d have to do the damn thing. If someone else got to her, they might have to arrange a few accidents before she was fully ensnared.

But that was a concern for tomorrow, and even the [Bandit Lady] had her enjoyments. In fact, she was enjoying herself so much that it was only when she stepped outside to relieve herself that she noticed an issue.

The Saverian [Bandit Lady] looked up from her drink and plate full of rich meat as she raided one of the cooking fires. She frowned, perplexed by an oddity.

Savere had been assigned to the western walls of Oliphant without much siege support, much to her ire. She’d protested it to that upstuck General Thelican, but the damned Stitch-Man had refused to budge. He clearly had his own orders regarding the Empress, so Savere had been put behind the ranks of two other nations’ front lines. Deimos and Nerrhavia’s forces flanked Savere, albeit at a distance to avoid accidental ‘accidents’ involving thieves in their supplies or camps. Again. The [Bandit Lady] had been annoyed by the proximity, but now…she stared around.

There were no camps or fires to her right. Or left. She stared around and saw the glow and activity of armies. But not in front of her. Slowly, she set down her wine cup and stared about.

“…Why are we on the front lines?”

The laughing soldiers around her looked up. One of the [Raid Leaders] stood up. Like the [Bandit Lady], she had near-perfect night vision and she saw the same thing. Savere was the closest army to Oliphant by far.

Every other army had pulled back. In fact, many of them had broken the encirclement and moved closer to Nerrhavia’s army, letting them oh-so-slightly take the lead. In fact, Savere’s army was now treacherously exposed on all sides, including the rear.

“What the fuck’s happening?”

The [Raid Leader] looked nervously at the [Bandit Lady]. The Saverian commander turned. Alarm bells were ringing through her head. She knew bad news when she saw it.

“I don’t know! Shut up! Get the army moving! Move back! Get up you maggot-assed bastards! Someone get me the Siren!”



—-



Revine, known as the Siren of Tides, or the Siren of Savere, or unofficially, one of the [Bandit Queens] that plagued the world, was furious. She was screaming at one of her slave-[Mages]. The woman was flinching, the magical collar around her neck shining as she used her magic and ducked the objects Revine was hurling at her.

“What do you mean, all the other nations were warned before me? Me? Those damn Archmages—not one of them told me? I had to wait for one of my people to deliver the information?”

“I’m sorry—”

The [Mage] ducked. One of the [Bandit Ladies] in Revine’s almost all-female command ducked, dodging a spray of wine from one of the cups. Revine whirled.

“She’s coming after me? Me? That bitch? That flea-covered—”

She ran out of words and pointed a finger. Everyone ducked as the Siren sent a blast of water into one wall. It blasted a dresser into pieces with the impact of tonnes of water. The Siren made a strangled noise; it had been filled with costly garments. She whirled.

“Queen—Lady Urele wants to know what orders you have.”

The Siren whirled. Her fury subsided a bit. She looked around. And the flash of fear across her face made the [Bandit Lady]’s heart skip her own beat. The King of Destruction was going to give Tiqr his strength? Revine chewed one fingernail.

“Tell them to pull back! And get me every [Pirate Captain] in a week’s sailing distance! Call them in! All the armadas! The Sandwave Fleet, the Bloodtear Pirates—and get everyone on alert! I want my ship ready to go in case of—get my ship stocked and loaded!”

She looked around. And then she whirled back to the slave-[Mage].

“Tell Urele I want the Empress of Beasts dead! Forget capturing her! If she comes out—kill her! Understand?”



—-



The sky was dark, and Femithain had been roused from his sleep. He strode through Nerrhavia’s camp, followed by his [Armsmaster], Dellic. But despite having slept little, he was wide awake.

As was all of the camp. Nerrhavian [Soldiers] were racing back and forth, and teams of [Diggers] were excavating the ground. The camp was in a flurry of activity, and Femithain saw the locus of it. General Thelican looked like he’d barely had any sleep before being woken. He was standing in the center of his camp, shouting orders at his [Strategists], the [Mages] bearing urgent messages for him and the [Commanders] of other nations.

He’d pulled back Nerrhavia’s army nearly six hundred paces from Oliphant! And more—Femithain had seen Nerrhavia’s encirclement breaking. Thelican was recalling them, pulling them back around his personal command. He’d gotten the same news that chilled Femithain’s blood.

The Empress of Beasts had courted the King of Destruction’s aid. He might unleash his Dreamers of Reim and his [Army of the King] through her. Femithain had gotten that straight from Archmage Viltach. He hadn’t questioned it. And neither it seemed had anyone else.

The armies surrounding Oliphant were moving closer together, almost huddling next to the protective bulk of Nerrhavia’s army. Thelican was changing the distribution of his camps, creating fortifications. Suddenly, it looked like his army was the one being besieged. Femithain strode past staggered ranks of foot-soldiers digging trenches and fashioning palisades in the night.

He reached the center of the commotion. This time no one saw him—until one of his personal Golems strode forwards. Then they backed away from the huge metal giant. Femithain walked past the press, straight towards Thelican.

General Thelican was sweating, his silk-turned-flesh skin gleaming palely. He was shouting at a [Mage].

“Are you sure? Tell Yisame that I’m not taking chances! That’s the information I was told—ask them! I’m busy! Tell her I’m fortifying my position! The armies stay where I say they do!”

“I’m not taking a charge on the front lines! Move your soldiers in front of mine!”

Another [General] was bellowing at Thelican. General Heic of Deimos. Thelican whirled on him.

“Your soldiers have armor! You’ll hold the left flank or I’ll break your army myself!”

“If we’re attacked—”

“Femithain!”

Thelican spotted Femithain. He strode over.

“Did you hear? I just got a communication spell from—”

“I heard.”

“It’s the most dire news. Who would have thought? The treachery of it! And we can’t even retreat, damn them! It could be a ruse or—Yisame, my beloved damned [Queen], has ordered me to hold! I need your Golems on the front. They’ll be invaluable. Put your troops with mine. We’ll hold the center.”

“I agree.”

“Good, good. Someone has a spine! Move them up. I’ll show you where—”

Thelican shouted for maps. Femithain waited, seeing Heic turn to him. He felt someone touch his arm and turned. Dellic was insistent, pointing back towards Illivere’s army, which had broken camp.

“Magus-Crafter, we must evacuate you as well. You cannot be endangered! You should retreat with your personal Golems. I will send some of our elites as an escort. Allow me command of the Golems.”

“No. My responsibility keeps me at the front.”

Femithain cut Dellic off flatly. The man inhaled, his face pale—and General Heic pushed his way forwards.

“Magus-Crafter! A word! This can’t be serious. We’re running about as if we’re about to fight a battle for our lives! And my soldiers are on the front! Thelican’s put his entire army between him and Oliphant—is the man terrified for his life or—”

Femithain grabbed Heic. Thelican had been accosted by a [Strategist], but panic or not, Heic’s words were a deadly insult. And the String People of Nerrhavia paid insults with blood.

“General Heic, silence. Dellic, with me. Move the army forwards. Golems to the front!”

He practically towed Heic out of the circle of command. Heic spluttered, but fell silent. Femithain strode with him towards the front.

“This can’t be serious. My [King] just sent me a [Message] spell—the King of Destruction? Aiding Tiqr? Now? Is this a serious threat?”

“I heard the same, General Heic. And I take it quite seriously. It is an act of desperation. And consequential—but there is reason for it.”

“But we’ve ten armies! She’s got barely—”

Femithain whirled, out of patience for once. Dellic returned at a trot. The Magus-Crafter looked at both men.

“Have you ever seen the Dreamers of Reim, Armsmaster Dellic? General Heic?”

Deimos’ [General] shook his head uneasily. So did Dellic. Femithain pursed his lips.

“I have. Or rather, I’ve seen their aftermath. They are the strongest of the King of Destruction’s personal units. It is an unbreakable force, who bear the dreams of their fallen comrades. Every Dreamer fights with the strength of their cause, their fallen comrades, friends, and loved ones giving them power. They become faster, harder to kill, and more deadly the stronger their conviction.”

Heic opened his mouth, paling. Femithain spoke over him.

“It was said that when the King of Destruction led them, they could walk through a hail of ordinary arrows without falling. They could shatter stone with their fists and fight for a day without rest!”

“Golems can do that too, Magus-Crafter.”

Dellic gritted his teeth. Femithain looked at him.

“Yes they can, Armsmaster. But we have hundreds of Golems. In theory, we could be fighting six hundred thousand Dreamers, if the King of Destruction’s Skill works on all of them at once.”

The two men fell silent. Femithain looked at them.

“The Dreamers of Reim follow a great cause; once, it was the King of Destruction’s will to unite Chandrar, and the world. The desire of Tiqr’s people to follow their [Empress] into battle might be even stronger at this moment.”

“Then why are we not retreating?”

General Heic finally understood the danger. He looked back at his own force, far to the left. Femithain watched as his Golems marched forwards, giants of stone, sand, and wood.

“Because we are committed, General Heic. And because the Dreamers are not invincible. We can win this battle. The second Unit that I was informed might appear are the Sorcelled Blades. Another of the King of Destruction’s unique forces.”

“He has two?”

Dellic started. He was too young to remember the King of Destruction’s first campaign. Probably just a boy, then. Femithain had lived those times and corrected him.

“Three. I doubt he can form the Mirage of Chandrar, however. The Sorcelled Blades are a weaker unit as a whole. More conventional than an army that cannot be broken. But elites. All of their blades are enchanted and they reinforce each other. They can copy each other’s enchantments, even combine the two. Blades that pierce armor will also freeze those they cut. Nsiia could form a group of warriors with weapons all nearly as powerful as her personal relic.”

“Dead gods.”

“They can be broken as well. This army is one of trained [Soldiers]. Tiqr’s citizens lack levels. They can be killed.”

And if he uses the [Army of the King]? Femithain paused. He looked at the two men.

“Flos Reimarch is not invincible. His Seven made him terrifying and unassailable. And yes, the King of Destruction is fearsome on his own. He can win any one battle even against terrible, terrible odds. Where he loses is when he fights on multiple fronts, when he is outflanked, worn down. A hammer can only strike one spot. But if this is the hammer it is weak. Flawed. We are an anvil. So long as we do not break, Tiqr’s forces will shatter.”

“You need not be here, Magus-Crafter.”

Dellic’s voice was all that was left in the silence. Femithain knew it was true. But he just looked at his [Armsmaster], at Heic as he returned to the safety of Nerrhavia’s lines and shook his head.

“Armsmaster Dellic. I have participated in Tiqr’s destruction. I declared war on Empress Nsiia and broke her kingdom to pieces until she was pushed to this last. For good or ill. I do not leave my tasks undone.”

The man hesitated. But then he looked at Femithain and nodded. He clasped one hand to his shoulder and metal rang.

“Yes, Magus-Crafter. Then let us see it together. I’ve always wondered whether the King of Destruction’s legend matched the truth.”

Femithain smiled bitterly.

“Ill wishes, Armsmaster. Come.”

He turned. And then he raised a finger. He put it to his temple and frowned. A [Message] struck him, a spell from afar. Femithain accepted it as Dellic looked at him. His eyes flickered. And he sighed.

“Ah. I see.”



—-



“A [Message]!”

Archmage Feor was sending [Message] spells and speaking into a scrying orb to a [Queen] on her throne. He held up a hand, cutting off Queen Yisame.

“From the King of Destruction?”

One of the [Mages] doing the same looked up. Teura shook her head. She was monitoring the flurry of [Messages] going out around Oliphant, recording them for analysis later. Even in this situation, Wistram stood to benefit. But one had caught her eye.

“No—to Magus-Crafter Femithain, Archmage! From the Empress of Beasts! It says—”

Archmage Feor snatched the paper from her and read. Teura looked at him. The Archmage dropped the paper and looked out the window. It was dawn. The sun was rising. And if it was rising here—he turned.

Archmage Nailihuaile and Viltach looked up as Feor burst into the room where they were writing Wistram’s declaration. He pointed at them as they turned.

“Send the declaration! Alert General Thelican and the coalition leaders to brace for an attack!”

“Why? Did Flos send something?”

Naili looked up, eyes wide in alarm. Feor shook his head. He brandished the paper.

“This is a message from Empress Nsiia to Magus-Crafter Femithain. It says—”

Viltach snatched the paper. Naili slithered around him, trying to see. Viltach dropped it and turned. He looked at Naili.

“Send it now. We’ll have to scry the battle!”

“What? How do you know? Why are you certain? What did she say?”

The shorter Lamia was snatching at the floating paper in frustration. Viltach paused at the door; Feor was already moving for their scrying room. He looked back at Naili, who was reading Nsiia’s words to Femithain. Viltach pointed at the paper.

“She told him to run.”



—-



Empress Nsiia walked down the steps from her palace. Her head felt light. And her shoulders were thrown back, her spine straight. She walked past her soldiers. They waited. General Vasraf stood down the central street. And her people, an army, waited at the gates.

“General Vasraf.”

Nsiia paused once before him. He bowed slightly. There were tears in his eyes. But he didn’t try to stop her. They had spoken all the words that needed to be said. Nsiia reached out and they clasped arms. She looked at him, trying to put words to the emotions in her chest.

“I only wish that I had not been the last [Empress] of Tiqr. I wish to have been a better ruler.”

He shook his head, eyes bright.

“My Empress. It has been a pleasure to serve. From all of us.”

The [Soldiers] bowed. They knelt as Nsiia looked around. She felt her eyes sting. And she bowed her head. She wanted to remember this moment forever. But dawn beckoned. And her people waited. So Nsiia paused. She looked at Vasraf, her army, her city. And then she reached up. With one hand she lifted the Tusk of Tiqr. The other rose to her headdress.

She plucked the Roc’s feather. Vasraf stepped back. And Nsiia looked down at the feather, the last gift of her father. And it shimmered and faded away in her hand. Her headband glowed.

And Nsiia grew. She felt her clothes and spear growing with her. Tall. Taller. She rose over the heads of her soldiers, who looked up, kneeling. Nsiia saw the rooftops moving towards her. She turned, nearly stumbling, as her feet grew.

And then she stopped. She stood as tall as one of her Grand Elephants, the eighteen still armored for war. They blew their trumpets, seeing their Empress. The Empress of Beasts took a tentative step.

Tall. A giant. She looked at her spear, now longer than even a Grand Elephant’s tusk. She stared down at her people and they looked up at her. They screamed her name. Nsiia walked forwards, leaving Vasraf behind, moving towards the southern gates.

Her enemy waited there. They had formed a wall, a semicircle around Oliphant. Even now she could see them, fortifying their position. They looked tiny all of a sudden. She smiled bitterly. Then she walked forwards. Her people moved out of the way and Nsiia took each step carefully.

Was this what Thef had felt like, towering over everyone? It was lonely. She wished he was here, to see her as tall as he was. Her dearest friend. Her wild half. Thef. She looked towards the gates.

“The King of Destruction has given me his answer. Now tremble. People of Tiqr. My subjects! Come with me.”

The citizens looked up. In silence, they followed Nsiia as she ducked under the gates. She strode out of Oliphant. Leaving her city for the last time. But she knew she would remember it in her heart for as long as she lived.



—-



He saw her coming out of the gates. Femithain stood in the dirt. She was distant, but he could see how tall she was. As tall as her elephants. And behind her came—

An army. The people of Tiqr, wearing scavenged armor, holding weapons they weren’t familiar with. But an army nonetheless. They poured out of the gates, outnumbering the army behind Femithain.

“Magus-Crafter?”

Dellic’s voice was tight. Femithain could see the front ranks of Nerrhavia’s soldiers moving back. They’d all heard now. And they saw her.

The Empress of Beasts. Here she came, striding slowly, the ground filling with bodies behind her. From his command in the center of his army, Thelican shuddered. He looked around, searching for the Named Adventurer.

“Can you hit her from this range?”

Alked Fellbow looked up. His bow was strung, but he hadn’t reached for an arrow. He looked at the distant Empress of Beasts. It was far beyond all but his bow range.

“If she gets closer. It’s a big target.”

“The instant she’s in range, then. No—when she begins her attack! Loose at once!”

Thelican ordered the man. Alked Fellbow didn’t reply. He narrowed his eyes at the Empress, then looked at Thelican.

“Did the King of Destruction join with Tiqr?”

“How did you—”

“I have ears.”

Alked lowered his bow. He looked at Thelican and shook his head.

“If he did, I’m out. I forfeit my contract. I’m not sticking around for that battle.”

“You must! You were hired—”

“If I shoot her, that army will tear me to pieces. No thanks.”

The Named Adventurer shook his head. He unstrung his bow, put it on his back. Thelican shouted at him, face pale with fury.

“Don’t you dare—”

On the front, Femithain was watching Nsiia drawing closer. Illivere’s small army was now in front, holding the center line. The Nerrhavian Hemp-[Soldiers] were two dozen feet behind theirs. Dellic was looking around.

“Magus-Crafter, shouldn’t we pull back?”

Femithain looked over his shoulder.

“I pledged Illivere to fight in this war. I do not flee. Someone must stand here or else these armies will retreat until their backs hit the sea.”

He spoke loud enough for his army to hear. The [Artificers], [Mages], and [Soldiers] in Femithain’s army looked up. They stared at him as he turned. The Golems of Illivere waited, unmoving, unflinching. Beautiful. Femithain looked at Dellic.

“Armsmaster Dellic. You will hold this ground. Retreat Illivere’s army when I fall, or when over half of the Golems are destroyed. Inform the Head Artificers that I nominate Artificer Antielle d’Elin as my replacement.”

“Magus-Crafter!”

The man’s voice rose in anguish. Femithain struck his left shoulder with one hand.

“That is an order, [Armsmaster]. Now let us end this. I have intruded on the Empress of Beast’s lands too long. She is wroth with me and all of us.”

He turned. Femithain strode forwards. From his command, General Thelican saw the Magus-Crafter moving. General Heic turned his head, shouting, his voice lost from the distance. Rémi Canada looked up from his hidden vantage point. Slowly, he raised his smartphone as he frantically cribbed notes.

Femithain raised his staff in one hand. His metal Golems flanked him. He shouted.

“I am Magus-Crafter Femithain. Golems of Illivere, forwards!”

They moved. A line of Golems advanced with him. Femithain walked, hearing their footsteps. And ahead of him, the Empress of Beasts advanced. Now her citizens filled the plains. And she towered over him. As tall as a Golem. She was watching him.

Femithain stopped, now forty paces ahead of Nerrhavia’s front line. His Golems came to a standstill. The Empress of Beasts halted, hundreds of feet distant. But now her face was clearly visible. She stood over her subjects as they formed a rough line behind her. She stared contemptuously down at the coalition’s army. And they looked up at her.

Nsiia whirled. She saw the flinch across hundreds of thousands of bodies. She looked back at her people. And they looked up at her. They were burning. The same look in her eyes reflected in hundreds of thousands of eyes. Nsiia raised her spear.

“This is our end! My people! Tell the world who we were!”

They stared up at her. And then the silence broke. Nsiia’s echoing voice was joined by a scream. A wild, howling sound. It came from them. Like beasts, they shouted, shrieking their anguish.

But they were people! Nsiia’s eyes ran with tears. She raised her spear. And she shouted the word at her people.

“Tiqr!”

They bellowed it back. Nsiia turned. The army in front of it flinched. The word came from Nsiia and her people. A roar.

“Tiqr!”

She lifted her spear higher. This time something tore in her throat. The word itself was pain.

“Tiqr!”

The skies shook. Ten nation’s armies quivered. Nsiia looked up at the sky. She pointed and screamed his name.

“King of Destruction! Flos of Reim!”

Thunder. Nsiia moved forwards. Femithain was holding his ground. She strode towards him, slowly. He met her eyes. His Golems readied themselves. And behind her, Tiqr’s last army prepared to charge. She could see [Archers] in Nerrhavia’s ranks drawing back, preparing to loose. Nsiia was two hundred feet away. She raised her spear, and Femithain lifted his staff.

Nsiia raised her spear over her head. She grasped the Tusk of Tiqr with both hands.

And then she flung it on the ground. She saw the ivory spear bounce on the hard dirt. And she looked up. Femithain paused. Empress Nsiia plucked the headband from her head. The enchantment broke and she shrank.

She walked towards him. Her people watched. The army in front of her had frozen uncertainly. Nsiia closed the distance. Femithain moved forwards.

They met in silence. He waited. Nsiia raised her voice. She tasted blood. But each word was clear in the silence.

“I am Empress Nsiia of Tiqr. I accept Magus-Crafter Femithain’s demand of unconditional surrender. Tiqr surrenders completely to the Illivere Federation.”

She looked up at him. Femithain blinked. Behind him, Thelican fell off his command pedestal. His army turned into a field of statues. From their room, the Archmages looked up, waxworks.

Nsiia raised one hand. Behind her, Tiqr’s citizens threw down their weapons. They wept, removing the armor, looking at their [Empress].

Femithain looked at Nsiia. Her eyes were bright. He stared at the citizens of Tiqr, surrendering. It occurred to him he’d never had a full conversation with just him and Nsiia. And this was a poor time for it. Still, he looked at her.

“You told me to flee.”

“I did not take you for a coward. Why did you stay after my [Message]?”

She half-smiled, looking at him. Femithain shrugged.

“I don’t believe you would have told me to flee if you planned to attack. You would have made me pay for Illivere’s part in this war.”

“True.”

That was all they said. Nerrhavia’s ranks were moving, advancing uncertainly. Illivere could see Armsmaster Dellic staring at his back, advancing with Illivere’s tiny army. The Magus-Crafter looked at Nsiia.

“You spoke to the King of Destruction. You asked for his strength. What did he tell you?”

Nsiia shook her head. She looked northeast, towards the rising sun.

“I thought he would give it to me. But he didn’t. He told me—he had seen enough pointless death. He told me to wait. To live. Until the day he returned Tiqr to itself.”

“He’s changed.”

Femithain saw Nsiia nod. She tried to say something. And then her eyes filled with tears. She looked at him and he bowed. She turned her head. And Femithain looked upon Oliphant. He let the Empress of Beasts grieve. And he shed his own tears in his heart.

Tiqr had fallen.





6.54 K


Tiqr had fallen. The Empress of Beasts, Nsiia, knelt in the dust. Her spear lay beside her. Her headband beside it. She wept, and behind her, Tiqr’s citizens, hundreds of thousands, knelt with her. Weeping for their nation.

This was how Tiqr ended. The coalition’s armies roiled in confusion, trying to process what had happened. General Thelican was red-faced with fury and shame. Not only had Tiqr not launched the attack that Wistram had all but assured him would come, he and Nerrhavia’s army had been seen to be afraid of the attack! Worse still—the one army that had refused to retreat, Illivere, led by Magus-Crafter Femithain, had been the ones the Empress of Beasts surrendered to.

Disaster. Of course, this wasn’t being broadcast to the rest of the world via [Scrying] spell. But surely, many nations were watching, being updated by their agents or via magical observation. Worse—Thelican’s stomach twisted.

The [Reporter]. The damned Remi Canada person that his [Queen] had ordered him to find. This would be in another of their articles! Now, Thelican regretted not hunting them down. But he hadn’t predicted this.

“General Thelican! A message from Queen Yisame—”

“Orders, General?”

“Queen Yisame demands to know—”

“Wistram’s Archmages are awaiting a conversation at your soonest—”

“General, our forces to the north—”

“Silence!”

The Stitch-[General] bellowed. He ignored the people surrounding him and pushed forwards.

“Get me to the front! Move the army forwards—encircle the prisoners!”

“General?”

There were hundreds of thousands of Tiqr’s citizens. They outnumbered Nerrhavia’s army. Thelican was too incensed to care.

“Surround them! Make way! Move!”

“General, Queen Yisame demands—”

“The northern—”

“Shut up!”

“We are under attack!”

The bellowing voice stopped Thelican. He whirled and saw one of the [Messengers] shoving the rest aside.

“What? From who?”

“Oliphant! The north! A part of their army sortied from the gates! General—it’s Tiqr’s army. They’re overrunning—”

Thelican’s blood ran cold in the veins of his body. For String People did have veins; the magic that animated cloth to flesh gave them biology. It also meant they could die. And suddenly, the [General] was imagining his head on a pillow before Queen Yisame.

“Deploy the chariots! Intercept them!”



—-



Of course, it was too late. Femithain heard the horns, saw chariots and riders breaking away from the coalition’s army, riding north. But he could see they’d never make it in time.

Femithain was no [Strategist], but he didn’t need to be to understand what had happened. As [Armsmaster] Dellic frantically queried Nerrhavia’s officers, Femithain heard enough.

“Tiqr’s army has broken north! They pierced the encirclement—they’re headed northwest!”

“To the Kilalle Steppes.”

Femithain nodded to himself. He looked down at Empress Nsiia. Or perhaps—simply Nsiia of Tiqr. She was a prisoner of war, now. She still knelt, but he caught her looking up, listening.

“Dellic. Have Nerrhavia’s forces any chance of catching Tiqr’s army? How many have left?”

The [Armsmaster] shook his head.

“The officers are saying it’s the entire army. And they came right out of the gates as soon as the Empress—”

He halted, staring at Nsiia. Femithain adjusted his spectacles.

“Clever.”

He had to admire it. Nsiia’s surrender had given her army time to flee. They were still nearly eighty-thousand strong, and if some of Tiqr’s citizens had gone with them—he eyed the sea of people spread out in front of Tiqr’s gates. Even had a hundred thousand fled, they would pose an insurmountable threat.

“You sent them to the Kilalle Steppes, Empress Nsiia?”

He addressed the kneeling woman. Nsiia looked up. Her eyes flashed as Dellic warily stood beside Femithain.

“My General, Vasraf, I gave him leave to do as he wished. I do not know what he plans.”

So you couldn’t be forced to betray him. Femithain’s estimation of Nsiia rose again. And it had already been high. She had calculated this. Her show before surrendering had bought her army time to flee. Thelican had pulled back his forces to protect himself; and Nsiia had chosen to surrender via the south gate, making the chase even harder.

However, that was only a small concern to Femithain at the moment. He stood, conscious of the coalition’s army reforming, centering on him. Because Tiqr had surrendered to Illivere. Not to the coalition. In the realm of politics, that was a very important distinction.

“Empress Nsiia. What do you hope to gain from your surrender?”

“Nothing. Tiqr is no more. I am no more an [Empress].”

The woman looked up at Femithain. And he realized she was young. A full decade and a half behind him, at least. Now, bereft of her rank and artifacts, she looked tired. And afraid. Femithain paused.

“You surrendered to Illivere. What if I had fled?”

“I would have surrendered to Deimos. Or Nerrhavia. Never to Savere. Do what you will, Magus-Crafter. We are your prisoners.”

The Magus-Crafter nodded slowly. Nsiia was looking at him. And he knew she remembered the warning he had tried to give her at Pomle. He leaned on his staff. Thelican would be coming. And Illivere, for all its strength, was one nation among many. Savere was powerful. And Nerrhavia overwhelming.

Still. He looked at Nsiia.

“You chose me, though. Why?”

Nsiia shrugged. She was looking at Dellic. The [Armsmaster] was watching her, balanced on his heels, ready to unsheathe his sword and strike.

“You tried to warn me. And Illivere has few slaves. I…hoped you would give Tiqr some dignity.”

“That is difficult.”

Nsiia nodded. She looked up. There were no illusions in her eyes. Her nation was defeated. And the defeated were treated harshly. In Chandrar, very harshly. Femithain looked at her. And then he nodded.

“You made a choice, Empress of Beasts. The King of Destruction gave you no death. But your surrender will see your nation picked apart. And your fate is also in my hands, it seems. So know this: you chose well.”

She looked up. Femithain smiled. Then he turned. The Magus-Crafter thought of himself as a poor fighter. A mediocre [Mage]; he was a far better [Crafter], a creator of Golems. But he was also Magus-Crafter of Illivere. And he had to admit—he was somewhat good at his job.

“Armsmaster Dellic.”

“Magus-Crafter!”

The man vibrated to attention. Femithain nodded to Nsiia.

“Arrest the Empress of Beasts. Take her headband and the spear; I wish her guarded by Stone Golems and eight [Artificers] as well as sixty of your best.”

“At once, Magus-Crafter!”

Dellic hesitated only for a moment before stooping to snatch the spear and headband up. Nsiia rose to her feet; he backed away a step. She held her hands up and to her sides.

“I have surrendered. Do what you will.”

She was looking at Femithain. Dellic barked an order.

“Stone Golems! [Artificers] of Stone, to me! Cetith Squadron, to me!”

Startled, Illivere’s army moved around Dellic and Nsiia. Femithain nodded, seeing Stone Golems stomping towards Nsiia. They held stone mauls and even Nerrhavia’s advancing [Soldiers] looked wary of them. In fact, Illivere’s army forced the other armies to move around them, awkwardly trying to surround Tiqr’s citizens.

Femithain’s studied the commotion. It was all chaos, but he wasn’t looking for the whole picture. It was all in the details. Like faults in stone. He needed—

“There.”

Femithain spotted a familiar face in the crowd. He pointed and strode forwards; his twin Steel Golems strode forwards, forcing a path through the [Soldiers]. The Magus-Crafter walked towards them, making a straight line for the man in armor leading his [Soldiers].

Objective. Femithain’s mind was a tidy series of thoughts. Empress Nsiia had surrendered to him. She hoped he would help Tiqr. However, her surrender placed undue pressure on his nation. Femithain weighed Illivere’s future against Nsiia’s wishes, saw a path. All that was left was to achieve it. And that was simple, in a way—or at least, Femithain saw it as so. He had a finite number of options he could pursue, and so he tackled them one at a time.

“General Heic!”

The Magus-Crafter intercepted the [General] of Deimos through the ranks of confused [Soldiers]. Heic looked up and shouted for his men to make way. Femithain left his Golem bodyguards behind and the two paused, shouting amid the commotion.

“Magus-Crafter! Dead gods! Did I hear right? Tiqr’s surrendered to Illivere?”

Heic was astounded. Femithain nodded and grabbed the man’s shoulder. No time to subtleties.

“Exactly so, General Heic! Let us discuss this later. However, General Thelican is approaching with the other coalition leaders.”

It was true. Thelican was making for Femithain and Nsiia, and he wasn’t the only one. [Bandit Lady] Urele was trying to do the same, flanked by her elites. Other [Generals] were approaching—Femithain looked at Heic.

“Of course. We’ll have to decide what’s to be done. Surrendered? I thought for certain we’d be facing Tiqr in the field. Their army’s fleeing to the north. We have to catch them, but with such a lead—”

Heic was spluttering. Femithain shook him slightly. Surprised, the [General] looked at him.

“General Heic. I would like you to support Illivere’s claims in these next moments. In fact, I believe it will be to Deimos’ benefit. Will you heed my request?”

The man blinked at him. Femithain waited. It was a gamble, but he had been acquainted with Heic over the course of the war. He saw the man’s eyes sharpen. Heic wasn’t a fool. And to Femithain’s satisfaction, the man nodded after only eight seconds of indecision.

“Of course!”

“Femithain!”

Thelican’s voice rang through the air. The [General]’s escort cleared the [Soldiers] in front of them; their weapons were drawn. They only halted in front of Illivere’s army; Dellic and the ranks of Golems refused to budge. Magus-Crafter Femithain and General Heic strode towards Thelican. The Stitch-[General] was apoplectic.

“Magus-Crafter, you—er—congratulations! On accepting Tiqr’s surrender on behalf of the coalition!”

You had to admire his ability to improvise. Femithain regarded Thelican over the rim of his spectacles. The [General] was looking for Empress Nsiia. He spotted her in the ranks of Illivere’s army and gestured.

“Wonderful work! We shall take the Empress and discuss matters. Men!”

He nodded to his Nerrhavian elites. The silk [Soldiers] strode forwards and then hastily stopped when the first rank of Golems and Illivere’s [Soldiers] lifted their arms. Thelican hesitated and turned towards Femithain. The Magus-Crafter cleared his throat.

“General Thelican, my pardons for the zeal of my army. I ordered my soldiers to hold the Empress.”

“Oh, of course. Well, if they’ll move aside—”

“I would prefer to do so at a later time. It would be a blow to the coalition if Tiqr’s [Empress] and army were to escape.”

“Escape? Here?”

Thelican did a double-take, looking around and then darkly towards Nsiia. The [Empress] glanced at him, and returned to watching Femithain. The Magus-Crafter stepped forwards. Thelican hurried over; more [Generals] were appearing and they were all seeing Illivere’s army holding the Empress.

The Stitch-[General] was red-faced, but Femithain was still very, very careful. Thelican commanded a vast army and Nerrhavia’s leadership may be pompous, but they were still very good at and willing to kill if need be.

“There’s no way she could escape. Magus-Crafter, I’d be grateful if your men would release her—my [Queen] would like to speak to you. We can sort this out later, eh?”

“And I would be glad to, General Thelican. However, if her people were to see her collared, or perhaps, attacked, they might well revolt, surrender or not.”

Thelican shot a glance at the citizens kneeling in the dust. He hesitated, but Femithain knew he would insist. Which was why Savere’s [Bandit Lady] was such a pleasant and calculated interruption.

“Make way! Move, rot your hides! Where’s the [Empress]? She’s Savere’s prisoner! Move or we’ll run you rotted maggots down!”

A group of cavalry were riding through the army, quite literally doing what they’d threatened. [Soldiers] moved out of the way of the horses and Lady Urele, Savere’s commander, rode straight for Illivere’s army. She turned to find Nsiia, and Thelican whirled on her.

“Commander Urele! Return to your position.”

“Shut up silk boy! You—Magus-whatever! Where’s the [Empress]? She’s our prisoner, got it? Anyone who objects can answer to the Siren!”

Urele rode around in a dangerous circle. She had a horsewhip and she unstrung it now, cracking the air and forcing everyone around her back. She spotted Nsiia among the Golems at last.

“There! Grab her!”

“The Empress of Beasts is a prisoner of Queen Yisame!”

Thelican roared, but it was too late. Some of Savere’s riders leapt from their saddles and swept towards Nsiia. The Golems moved, raising their warhammers. Like Nerrhavia’s best, Savere’s most infamous hesitated. They might be high-level, but there was something about a giant stone Golem lifting a hammer over your head that made even the bravest think about their life choices.

Lady Urele whirled on Femithain.

“You! Mage-boy! Order your Golems to stand aside before my people dice them!”

“Lady Urele—”

Femithain began, but General Thelican leapt in. Now he was purple with fury.

“Soldiers! Form a wall between the Empress and Savere’s irregulars! She is Nerrhavian property!”

The Saverian [Rogues] moved back warily as the silk-cloth warriors stepped forwards, brandishing their curved blades. Femithain heard a mocking call as one warrior slashed out, making a [Rogue] leap back and swear at him. Urele stared at Thelican.

“Move your handkerchiefs, Thelican.”

The Stitch-[General]’s face darkened.

“Remove yourself, Commander Urele, before my army removes you.”

The two commanders stared at each other, their soldiers tense, on edge. The air was sparking, and more armies were still converging. Another [Commander] rode forwards—Femithain recognized Lady Yucale of Lamult.

“What’s going on here? Is the battle over? We’ve yet to take the city!”

She was clearly out of the loop, or else regarded the battle as only ‘won’ when someone planted a flag in a conquered city. She caught sight of the standoff and hesitated.

“Move aside for Xern’s [Strategist]! I said, move aside! Is anyone listening?”

Another leader, the [Strategist] of Xern, forced to dismount and fight through the press of bodies on foot. Femithain was counting heads. Seven, eight…nearly all the coalition’s leaders were nearby, or in earshot. Thelican was bellowing at all of them to listen to him! Urele was looking around, and some of her people were slipping to the sides, trying to find a way through Dellic’s circle around Nsiia.

And at that moment, General Heic proved why he was a [General] of Deimos. He looked at Femithain, checked his own army, mixed with all the others in this scrum, and then raised his arm and bellowed.

“Deimos salutes Illivere’s splendid triumph over the Empress of Beasts!”

His voice rang over the others, a product of a [Loud Voice] Skill or truly prodigious lungs. Femithain saw Urele and Thelican both look around, along with Xern’s [Strategist], Lady Yucale, and all the others. Heic bellowed again.

“Illivere has accepted Tiqr’s surrender! The war is over! Huzzah!”

“No, it was a coalition led—”

Thelican’s voice was drowned out by a roar from around him. Heic turned and shouted at his [Soldiers].

“Applause!”

Deimos’ army began applauding, and cheering the end of the battle. That was enough. The tired [Soldiers], most of whom did not care who had accepted whose surrender so long as they didn’t have to fight another hyena or elephant, began cheering as well. Soon, they were shouting.

“Il-li-vere! Il-li-vere!”

Femithain listened, bemused, but also grateful. He saw Heic turn his head and the [General] gave him the most unsecretive wink Femithain had ever seen. Then Thelican was bearing down on Femithain.

“Magus-Crafter—”

Femithain beat him to it. The Magus-Crafter clicked his fingers and his two Golems moved aside. He turned—and Thelican was walking by his side.

“General Thelican, let us speak freely. Lady Yucale, my apologies. Yes, the war is over. Thelican, may we converse?”

“Of course! I—this is a bit of a disaster—[Strategists]! No one gets near the Empress! Surround, er, Illivere’s formation!”

“Xern’s [Strategist] does not obey orders from—”

“I was speaking to my [Strategists]!”

Thelican roared back. He whirled and Femithain knew it was time. The Magus-Crafter took a breath. He was conscious of Lady Yucale hovering on their left, Urele trying to bully her way to Nsiia as she glared at him, and all the other messengers, officers, and high-ranking leaders around him, listening in. He wove a quick [Bubble of Silence] spell, but he had no doubt it would be penetrated.

And Thelican was turning towards him, and Femithain knew one thing: there were at least two dozen truth spells aimed at him. So he told the truth. That was the first thing you had to learn to survive events like these.

“Magus-Crafter. This surrender business.”

Femithain gave Thelican an apologetic smile.

“Unexpected.”

Thelican looked relieved.

“Yes! Certainly! Those damn Archmages—er—my information was terribly flawed! We were ready for an attack, and then Tiqr just rolls over? But why did the Empress of Beasts surrender to you?”

Femithain paused, and he chose his words carefully.

“The Empress of Tiqr’s surrender was a pleasant surprise. However, I believe Illivere’s terms of surrender are most palatable to her.”

Especially because he hadn’t offered her any. But Thelican’s eyes widened.

“Queen Yisame made her offer, and I know the Siren laid out her terms. But Illivere…?”

Femithain waved off the specifics.

“Illivere wishes an acceptable end to the war, General Thelican. I can promise you that I offered the Empress nothing that would trouble the coalition.”

“But her surrender to you—the Empress is a valuable prisoner, Magus-Crafter. I can see those Saverian dogs sniffing around her formation—let me pull up two battalions and we’ll escort Nsiia to our camp.”

Femithain shook his head.

“General Thelican, I am well aware of the exigencies of Queen Yisame’s requests. For now, however, let us discuss the division of Tiqr’s assets.”

“Of which the Empress of Beasts is non-negotiable—”

“Illivere is, of course, prepared to back Nerrhavia’s claim to Oliphant and its citizens. As well as Nerrhavia’s strong claim towards occupation of the bulk of Tiqr’s territory.”

Thelican paused. He looked at Femithain.

“Occupation? What are you talking about?”

The Magus-Crafter raised his eyebrows.

“Nerrhavia intends to occupy Oliphant, does it not? Tiqr’s citizens may be difficult to return to their settlements at first, but if Oliphant is repopulated by at least three hundred thousand, that should leave many able to return to their lives across the nation. We can hope more refugees will return in time as well.”

“What? What are you talking about, man? These are all…”

Thelican broke off, staring past Femithain at the sea of Tiqr’s citizens. Femithain raised an eyebrow.

“General Thelican, I do not believe even Roshal is inclined to house and feed hundreds of thousands of [Slaves] at such short notice. Let alone the cost of transport and training? They would never make it to Roshal.”

“True! There are far too many even with prisoner trains. Dead gods, but we’d have to feed them. I imagine Roshal would pay to send their own scouting for likely slaves, but—the coalition can divide them up. Savere’s ships will take tens of thousands, I have no doubt.”

Femithain frowned.

“Unless of course you returned them to Tiqr.”

“Why would we do that?”

The Magus-Crafter gave Thelican a long look. The [General] flushed, sensing Femithain’s confusion.

“A slave-state, General Thelican. Isn’t that the most effective solution to the issue?”

The [General] paused. Then his eyes lit up.

“You mean, an occupied country?”

“You can hardly sell all the slaves. Savere’s fleets would fail to move even a fifth of this many people and Nerrhavia would spend as much as it earned to broker a mass-sale. The Slavers of Roshal would hardly offer as much for regular citizens. A slave-state on the other hand…”

It was a practice familiar to Chandrarian nations. A subservient nation that was effectively a vassal of a larger one, forced to supply almost all of its goods to its ruler, who usually kept a large garrison within the country to ensure a happy and continuing relationship. It was also of particular note to Thelican and Nerrhavia. The [General] frowned darkly.

“Nerrhavia was a slave-state, Magus-Crafter.”

Femithain nodded.

“A subservient region, then. I very much doubt Nerrhavia’s citizens are inclined to move to Tiqr without encouragement. On the other hand, Tiqr is rich in land.”

Thelican rubbed his jaw. He was calming down, now, and he was starting to think about more than his reputation and Yisame’s fury. He glanced towards the city in the distance, and then the dam his army had built.

“A military presence would be required, but Oliphant does have a river. And it’s agriculturally rich. Dead gods, but you’re right. Here, but that’s a discussion for after…”

He paused and looked at Femithain. The Magus-Crafter nodded.

“Illivere would naturally support Nerrhavia’s claim. Its armies have made the greatest contributions to the war.”

“Really? To Oliphant and—how much of Tiqr?”

Thelican was interested. New land, even for a nation as large as Nerrhavia, was tempting to a [General], who might well get a large cut of the pie. Femithain nodded.

“Shall we discuss the matter? Naturally, each member of the coalition will require a share.”

“And a percentage of the population. You’re right! That would be simple. But the Empress?”

Thelican was glancing at Femithain suspiciously. The Magus-Crafter lifted his shoulders.

“May we discuss the matter? Let me explain my position, General Thelican. The Empress of Beast’s surrender was a fortunate accident. However, her capture…it is a matter of politics, General Thelican. Do you recall that I am elected as Magus-Crafter on a yearly basis.”

“Ah, yes. By your…er, democracy?”

Thelican fumbled for the words. Femithain nodded. Urele was now fighting her way towards him.

“Of a sort, General Thelican. But my support is based on my accomplishments. The Empress of Beasts would be an asset. I would consider it a personal favor, of course, were you to intercede on Illivere’s behalf with Queen Yisame.”

“But Queen Yisame…”

Troubled, Thelican glanced back towards the waiting [Messengers]. Femithain coughed.

“Without Nerrhavia’s support, I believe I would be forced to cede Empress Nsiia’s captivity. Perhaps to Nerrhavia, but I imagine Savere will wish to force the issue.”

And it’s a long way to Nerrhavia. Both men thought of Saverian raids and the issue of transporting a prisoner that far. Thelican shuddered, but he persisted.

“Magus-Crafter Femithain, you and your army have done me any number of services. But this is a matter of Nerrhavian pride. How would it look if the Empress of Beasts were not taken as Nerrhavia’s prisoner?”

“Fairly innocuous, General Thelican? It would be a personal gesture of friendship.”

Thelican hesitated.

“I couldn’t persuade you to give her up? I would consider that a token of friendship myself.”

The laughter from the Magus-Crafter surprised Thelican. Femithain smiled at the Stitch-[General] and shook his head.

“General Thelican, greed does not become you. Would you have Illivere support Nerrhavia’s claim to Oliphant and the division of Tiqr’s lands and cede the Empress of Beasts?”

The [General] was left tongue-tied. He looked at Femithain, back at the Empress, and Femithain could see him weighing his options. What decided Thelican in the end was Oliphant. It was a beautiful city and it had not been taken by war. The [General] eyed it, and Femithain could practically see the Stitch-Man thinking.

It would need a [General] to garrison it. And it could be quite wealthy if Tiqr’s citizens got back to work. Someone who owned that city and the land around it? They were practically a [Prince]. What was that to a prisoner who would please only one [Queen]? Slowly, Thelican turned back to Femithain and nodded.

“Queen Yisame is quite insistent, Magus-Crafter. But even she cannot wish for Dragons, eh?”

“Very true, General.”

“Let’s…discuss the issue. Yes, indeed. Allow me a moment to converse with my [Queen]?”

Thelican didn’t wait for a response. He was already hurrying towards his primary [Mage], and Femithain saw him moving his lips, composing a [Message]. The Magus-Crafter turned—

And a hand latched onto one arm. Urele glared at Femithain.

“You. Magus-Crafter. The Siren wants a word.”

Femithain saw one of his bodyguard Golems raise his sword. He raised a hand and Urele warily let go. He nodded towards her. This was the second challenge. If Thelican could be persuaded to convince Yisame, the same wasn’t true of Urele. Femithain didn’t know her, and even if he had, he was quite aware that the only person who could sway the Siren was Revine herself.



—-



“Magus-Crafter! What’s this rot I hear about Illivere taking the Empress of Beasts prisoner? Give her to Urele. Now.”

The Siren of Savere was not a pleasant person to converse with when angry. She didn’t converse so much as bark orders. Magus-Crafter Femithain pursed his lips as he spoke into the enchanted conch shell that Urele had given him.

“Queen Revine, the matter is not so simple.”

“No? Urele tells me Illivere’s army holds the Empress. I will have that bitch collared and sent to me. Unless you want to challenge Savere over it?”

The voice snapped back. Femithain stared at the conch and then at Urele. The [Bandit Lady] was listening, staring between Femithain and the artifact. Femithain sighed. The first thing you had to do with Revine was—

“Queen Revine. Are you aware of Queen Yisame’s claim on Empress Nsiia?”

The voice on the other end of the conch went silent. Then Revine’s voice came back, a lot calmer, quieter, and decidedly more worrying.

“Magus-Crafter. Are you planning on turning over the Empress of Beasts to Nerrhavia? I would take that as an insult.”

There it was. The Siren of Savere could be a raging tempest, but when she was truly angry, she went quiet. Femithain paused, and saw Urele shift. She had daggers sewn into her armor. But he met her gaze levelly as he replied.

“Queen Revine, let me be frank. General Thelican has expressed Nerrhavia’s desire to have the Empress of Beasts in no uncertain terms. Were I to forfeit her capture, I have no doubt they might force the issue, and Illivere is ill-capable of resisting such a demand.”

Revine paused. Femithain continued.

“If Savere is willing to press the issue, I will have no option but to cede Empress Nsiia’s capture. I would prefer not to, but I have no inclination to cross Nerrhavia. I trust you understand my situation?”

The perfect truth. Femithain fancied he heard grinding teeth on the other end.

“Magus-Crafter. Give the shell to Urele. Urele.”

Femithain passed the conch to Urele, and saw the [Bandit Lady] raise it to one ear. She grimaced, whispered urgently into the shell—it was her turn to turn away to muffle the conversation. But Femithain believed he understood that the Siren was asking for Urele to spell out just how likely Savere was to win an altercation with Nerrhavia.

The cursing coming from the conch confirmed Femithain’s theory as Urele passed the conch back. Femithain heard Revine’s voice on the other end, still cold and deliberate.

”Who’s getting the Empress of Beasts, then? Illivere?”

“General Thelican may agree to that. He is concerned with the distribution of Tiqr’s land more than the Empress’ capture, I believe.”

The tone of Revine’s voice darkened audibly.

“He wants Tiqr? Oliphant is Savere’s. I’ll deal with him after this. Fine. Keep the Empress for now. But hear me, Magus-Crafter. I want her. When everything’s quiet, you’ll hear from me. We’ll discuss our terms then.”

“As you wish.”

Femithain lowered the conch. He handed it back to Urele. The [Bandit Lady] gave him an odd look.

“The Queen’s letting you have the Empress? Fancy free, that’s unusual. She doesn’t like giving her toys away to anyone. We’ll talk to you later, Magus-man.”

Femithain decided not to dignify that with a response. He let Urele talk into the conch and walked back. Thelican was waiting for him, and as Urele strode towards them, a second meeting commenced. This time in Thelican’s personal tent, although no one was lounging about. The Stitch-General was pointing down to a map of Tiqr as he led the conversation.

Xern’s [Strategist], General Heic, Lady Yucale, all of them were in hot debate over what was to be done with Tiqr. They would have gotten around to the idea of dividing Tiqr up in time; one look at the army of citizens told anyone with sense that they weren’t going to be easy prisoners. Thelican was speaking loudly.

“Oliphant will be occupied by Nerrhavia’s army. We will discuss a more formal division of Tiqr—”

“Oliphant? That’s ours! And we’re taking those prisoners. Slaves.”

Urele snapped at Thelican. The Stitch-[General] turned and stared down at her.

“The citizens of Tiqr are, by the grace of her Majesty Yisame, now Nerrhavian citizens. Second-class.”

“What?”

The word burst from half a dozen mouths. Xern’s [Strategist] was foaming at the mouth.

“Xern has an equal claim to Tiqr’s citizens! If we are dividing land—”

“Illivere will cede our claim to Oliphant.”

Femithain’s cool voice made the other leaders look to him. Thelican turned with a smile and Heic raised his brows. Femithain nodded, meeting every eye.

“Generals, commanders, a more formal arrangement may be struck by our nation’s respective leaders at a later date. But in the interest of time, we must reach a settlement now. Thus, as Illivere has claimed the Empress of Beasts, we will be content to cede our claim on Tiqr’s lands, save for a moderate expansion along our borders.”

That pleased everyone in the room. One less claim? And aside from a disappointed few who might have wanted to claim the Empress of Beasts, no one, most importantly Thelican and Urele, objected to that either. Femithain went on.

“Tiqr’s divisions of lands will require at least a majority agreement by the members of the coalition. I propose to leave each nation a proportionate amount of land to their contributions. For instance, Deimos’ borders could naturally expand to the Reic River; it does run through their borders. Which would create a natural border with Nerrhavian territory around—”

“Xern claims the Reen Plains!”

“That’s not up for debate! Reen borders Lamult—”

“Oliphant belongs to Savere!”

Urele slammed a fist down on the table. Thelican glared at her, and then looked around at the other leaders.

“Savere will be content with an expansion on the southern borders, surely? It would be greedy of Savere to demand the entire southern and central regions of Tiqr!”

Most of the other leaders nodded. Urele stared around, and then narrowed her eyes at Thelican.

“You want to take it, silk-boy? That’s Savere’s spoils!”

The Saverian [Bandit Lady] glared daggers at Nerrhavia’s [General]. Outraged, Thelican raised his own voice. Femithain carefully watched, seeing the shift in the currents.

Savere was an unpopular nation, for all that the Siren of Tides and their alliances with [Pirates] and [Bandits] the world over gave them the strength. Urele was outmatched, and aside from supporting Heic’s claim to the Reic River and Thelican’s to Oliphant when it came to a vote, Thelican had little else to say.

[Bandit Lady] Urele stormed out of Thelican’s tent after two hours of hot debate, hurling oaths and promising that this wasn’t over. But Thelican was already moving Nerrhavia’s army into Oliphant along with a bulk of the citizens, and the rest of the coalition’s army was preparing to break up.

Femithain found Armsmaster Dellic almost exactly where he’d left him. Illivere’s army was still guarding Nsiia. Dellic sprang to his feet when he saw the Magus-Crafter approaching.

“Magus-Crafter. May I ask what’s happening?”

“Tiqr’s division is more or less complete. The coalition has agreed on a temporary set of new borders. Nerrhavia will leave a large garrison at Oliphant—Illivere’s army will return home.”

Femithain’s news provoked a cheer from the living army. Nsiia raised her head from between the Golems standing watch over her. Femithain saw Dellic looking towards her as well.

“And the Empress?”

“A captive of Illivere.”

Dellic inhaled. Femithain waited.

“Objections, Armsmaster?”

The man took his time in replying.

“…Is this Illivere’s reward for its contributions in the war, Magus-Crafter? If Nerrhavia has Oliphant…”

Femithain shook his head.

“Illivere does not need land, Armsmaster. Far better to sacrifice soil for friendship; our Golems provide our workforce in any case. As for the Empress of Beasts—she is a political prisoner. That is my determination and I will explain myself before the Head Artificers if necessary.”

“Yes, Magus-Crafter.”

Dellic might have had more reservations, but he didn’t voice them, which was a merciful change. Femithain ordered Illivere’s army to prepare for the return march. As he was discussing the guard on Nsiia—Femithain was most wary of Savere, despite Revine’s agreement—General Heic came riding towards him. The man looked rather pleased as he dismounted to shake Femithain’s hand.

“Well done, Magus-Crafter! Not a bad day’s work, eh? A battle avoided—a shame, I’d have liked to level up. But that was some smooth diplomacy if ever I’ve seen it!”

“You’re too kind, General Heic. I merely reached a compromise.”

Heic gave Femithain a sharp look.

“Did you? I rather think it went the way you wanted, Magus-Crafter. I can’t believe Nerrhavia and Savere both gave up on the Empress. The way their [Queens] were going—but they’re more interested in pissing on each other than Illivere.”

Femithain saw Dellic shake his head.

“Crudely put, General Heic, but perhaps. Have I contented Deimos as well?”

The [General] chuckled.

“Give us the Reic river and I think my [King] will be content, Femithain. Better Nerrhavia to have Oliphant than Savere; I’d hate to share a border with them. Their raids are bad enough. Congratulations, then! You have the Empress of Beasts. I can’t fault you on that, for all I’m jealous! A fine addition to a seraglio.”

His voice reached Nsiia from where she stood. She turned and regarded Heic; the [General] stared back, before laughing and clapping Femithain on the shoulder.

“You might need to watch yourself in the bedroom, though, Magus-Crafter! Or call for one of Roshal’s trainers. In any case, I’m proud to have marched with Illivere! No [King] took to the field—or [Queen], save for the Siren, but you were there start to finish! I’d call on you in Illivere, once this is all settled down.”

Femithain smiled.

“I should look forwards to it, General Heic. And I will extend an invitation when time permits.”

He held out a hand. He did like Heic in his own way, and Thelican his. Femithain would have to seek him out as well to thank him for his efforts. Funny, how you could like someone and detest parts of them at the same time. But then, people were so complicated compared to Golems. Heic bade Femithain farewell as he rode with Deimos’ army.

That left only Dellic, Femithain, and Nsiia. Femithain walked through the watchful Golems.

“Empress Nsiia?”

“I am only Nsiia, now. It seems that [General] was right, Magus-Crafter. You are good at what you do.”

Nsiia watched Femithain curiously. The Magus-Crafter inclined his head.

“One tries, Empress Nsiia. Let me assure you that you are a guest of Illivere. I would not wish to anger the King of Destruction.”

She blinked slowly at him. She was like a caged hyena, Femithain thought. Intelligent—capable of reason—but like a hyena, never truly a pet. You couldn’t tame them, only feed them, or leash them. She bared her teeth.

“Do you have any true allies, Femithain of Illivere?”

He calmly met her eyes.

“Illivere survives, Empress. We choose the best course of action as we can. That is a Golem’s logic. I fear it makes poor people of us.”

Nsiia shook her head. She stared at him, and then sagged. She bowed her head as she leaned against one of the stone Golems, staring at Femithain. After a while, she spoke up.

“Do you even have a harem, Magus-Crafter?”

Femithain paused.

“I will have someone provide a proper label on the guest rooms. Perhaps a sign.”

Nsiia stared at Femithain. Then she laughed, surprised at his joke. She laughed and laughed—and then choked on the laughter. But she didn’t sob. She just sat down and bowed her head. Behind her, Nerrhavia’s army swept into Tiqr. Its citizens, some of them, returned to their homes, only to find them looted by the Hemp-[Soldiers].

Some didn’t return home; they were taken by the armies of other nations, captives to become [Slaves], or to work their lands and occupations again, but as citizens of another nation. Femithain saw it all as he stood with his Golems, listening to Dellic give orders. He saw Nsiia’s bowed head, the trickling tears down her cheeks.

He left her to her grief. Tiqr was still fallen. She was a prisoner. And her people were subjects. Or slaves. Femithain shook his head. No, there was little for Nsiia to laugh about. And as Femithain walked back to congratulate Thelican again and pledge to visit him in Nerrhavia when time allowed, he reflected that while he had done Nsiia some small mercies, she would never thank him for it.

Femithain was not a good man. He knew that for a fact.



—-



So, Tiqr fell. It happened with words, and negotiations and a lot of confusion near the end, but that was how it always went. Anyone who’d ever conquered anything knew it wasn’t a simple process. And in truth, when the dust had settled, the facts were fairly straightforward.

Tiqr had fallen. The Empress of Beasts had been captured, alive, and the nation divided by its conquerors. Some of the citizens of Tiqr were now subjects of another land, or slaves, or simply fled. Tiqr had been erased, and that was that.

Oh—and an army had escaped the capital in the confusion. General Vasraf had declared that he would never cede Tiqr to invaders and had sworn to liberate his home with the rest of Tiqr’s army and nearly a hundred thousand of Tiqr’s citizens. They’d fled to the Kilalle Steppes, too quickly for the coalition to pursue in the aftermath of Tiqr’s surrender.

They’d be a problem and a big one if they weren’t rooted out. There was nothing like angry people deprived of their home to ferment insurrection. And on that note, Tiqr was divided, but the land was hardly as simple as an expansion of every nation’s borders.

Nerrhavia alone had claimed Oliphant, and so it had now expanded out of its natural borders. It would have to maintain a standing army in the region, which would alarm the other nations who would have to do likewise to maintain order and watch each other.

All of that was enough to provoke a heated discussion by anyone who had interests in the region, or just Chandrar in general. It was messy, and would throw a Creler into the politics of the nations around Tiqr—and it was already politics.

That wasn’t what had nations of the world in an uproar, though. No. In fact, Tiqr’s defeat had actually been overshadowed by the scandal that occurred as Tiqr was surrendering. Femithain had been completely oblivious to it, along with everyone who was actually at Tiqr.

It was the worldwide announcement that Wistram had put out from the Mage’s Guilds. As people were waiting for the news of the siege on Oliphant to come through, a highest-priority [Message] had come blasting out of every Mage’s Guild! It was a denouncement of the King of Destruction allying with Tiqr to destroy the Nerrhavian-led coalition! He had broken his vow of peace if not in practice, than in spirit! Wistram condemned the warmongering action by Reim—

Er…

For about, oh, ten minutes, the news had been echoing. The King of Destruction had allied with Tiqr! Except even that didn’t convey the alarm.

THE KING OF DESTRUCTION HAS ALLIED WITH TIQR; THE COALITION ARMIES COULD BE WIPED OUT. THE DREAMERS OF REIM ARE MARCHING. ALL BETS ARE OFF. PANIC. And even then, it could have used italics.

For ten minutes, everyone was waiting to see who’d declare on Reim. No—would Tiqr win? How had it happened?

Then had come a very subdued message from the Mage’s Guilds. No, wait, cancel the last declaration. Reim had not, uh, allied with Tiqr. The [Message] had been in error, and Wistram had falsely reported the information supplied to them without proper verification. The academy regretted the mistake—Tiqr had in fact, fallen, without the King of Destruction’s support, surrendering to Illivere.

“Mistake?”

Niers Astoragon, the Titan of Baleros, second-in-command of the Forgotten Wing Company, etc. etc., had nearly laughed himself off his podium in the classroom. To be fair, it was as much outrage as hilarity; the nervous titter running through his class was an echo of the emotions that had to be running through the other nations in the world.

“This is a disaster! Wistram just announced Reim went to war when it didn’t? How could those idiots let that happen?”

The students in Niers’ special class were all nodding. Wistram was the backbone of Mage’s Guilds, a reliable source of, well information. This was beyond scandalous! The fact that Wil Kallinad, normally one of the most reserved members of Niers’ class when it came to voicing his opinions had said it was a sign of how bad it was. Venaz was staring down at the map of Oliphant in disbelief. He looked up sharply, breaking away from the simulation Niers’ class had been running of the battle.

“They must have been spying. How else would they have known it?”

“What? Venaz, are you snorting Dancepetals?”

Marian the Centauress turned and gave Venaz the fisheye. But Niers pulled himself upright and waved at Venaz.

“No, continue that thought, Venaz.”

The Minotaur nodded. He pointed at the [Message] spells frantically appearing on the scroll Niers had ordered spread on the table where all the students were sitting. It was attuned to hold sets of [Messages] addressed to it; normally few spells reached this scroll as they would have to be broadcast the world over, like general alerts. Right now ink was appearing and disappearing as the [Messages] popped off faster than anyone could read them. Venaz glared at the map of Oliphant as he spoke.

“Professor, I’ve heard rumors that Wistram was able to spy through scrying orbs. They announced the King of Destruction was allying himself with the Empress of Beasts before she even left Oliphant’s gates, if the timing on this is right. They had to have been spying in some way to have believed—falsely—that they were going to ally? How else would they have assumed this?”

“They wouldn’t do that. Wistram doesn’t spy, surely!”

A shocked voice from one of the newer students. Niers shook his head sadly and the older students sighed. The Fraerling addressed the young man.

“Always expect the enemy to do what benefits them, Reniz. Never mind the ethics of it. And I’d say Venaz is right. Or at the very least, Wistram believed some very bad information.”

He shook his head, steading himself.

“This was clearly a bad mistake among Wistram’s [Mages]. A false statement broadcast the world over?”

“Beyond scandalous. Their credibility is ruined. What if they had announced the Iron Vanguard had launched an attack on a city owned by Maelstrom’s Howling? Or a Terandrian kingdom had attacked another? They could have started a war!”

Cameral, the Dullahan, looked truly upset. Some of the other students were nodding. Umina, Marian, Venaz, Cameral, Wil—all were some degree of angry at Wistram’s mistake. On the other hand, Yerranola, the Selphid, and Feshi, the Gnoll, both looked as amused as Niers.

The Titan chuckled as he read some of the [Messages] being shot through the Mage’s Guilds. Rulers the world over were expressing their fury at the false news in no uncertain terms. He waved at one of the [Servants] attending the lesson.

“Copy these down, would you? I want to save them for later reading.”

He didn’t wait for the nod, but instead stomped on the desk for his class’ attention. Niers waited for silence, and then spoke in a level voice.

“We’ll be discussing what measures you would take as a [Strategist] after learning about this mistake by Wistram. And this was a test—I imagine a number of [Strategists] are going to be questioning every [Message] that comes through Wistram, or expanding their own information networks. If you were advising a nation’s ruler, especially in Chandrar, this is a situation where you wouldn’t want to be caught off-guard by bad information. But for now let’s focus on what we do know. Tiqr has fallen.”

He students looked up and nodded. Order returned as Niers pointed at the map of Tiqr.

“Get rid of the siege map. We’ll revisit it and see if they could have won with the King of Destruction’s Skills later. For now, let’s analyze the situation, class. What have the coalition gained from this war? My view is that their gains are almost outweighed by their losses. Thoughts?”

Niers would have been happy to hear a dissenting voice, but everyone agreed with him, which wasn’t bad. Umina, the Lizardgirl, gave her analysis, speaking over the others as they debated the issue.

“Tiqr’s army is still intact and worse, led by Tiqr’s [General]. He has to have leveled up from the war and if he strikes from the Kilalle Steppes, the coalition will have to watch their backs for years unless they’re able to hunt them down. And that would mean angering Kilalle’s Garuda tribes—”

“Never a good idea. Remember Peki, from the officer classes? I once ate her sandwich and she still has it out for me. She holds a grudge forever. Almost as bad as Drakes, like Kissilt.”

Marian shook her head, her mane of hair nearly whipping Feshi in the face. Across the table, Kissilt looked up at her.

“Go eat your tail, Marian! You still owe me fifteen silver!”

“No, I don’t!”

“Children, please!”

Niers smiled. He restored order again and got each student’s take—assuming they had something new to add. His class were discussing what actions they expected each nation to take, reviewing it against the facts—Niers was quite interested to see that Empress Nsiia was Illivere’s captive.

“Always consider the ruler. Feshi, you have a thought?”

“Hrr. Femithain is cunning. And he backs whoever the wind favors. He’s not taking much land—do you notice? He must suspect holding onto Tiqr will be as much trouble as conquering it. I think it is a wise move. If the people of Tiqr are like Gnolls, they will strike again and again rather than let these new nations take their home.”

Niers nodded approvingly as he glanced out a window.

“Suitably grounded in historical precedent. Time will tell. Ah, but look at the sun! We’re already out of time. We’ll pick up our analysis of the battle tomorrow, and see what the political fallout is! Your homework? Be prepared to offer me the best way to defeat the coalition’s army with a force like the Dreamers of Reim, and conversely, how to defeat the Dreamers! Bonus points to anyone who can cite me examples of when they’ve lost and how it was done!”

His students began packing up their things, or writing down notes. Niers saw them glancing at him and smiled.

“And Umina and Wil—”

The classroom froze. The Lizardgirl and [Lord] looked up, suddenly alert. Was today the day? The students held their breath, waiting. The Titan’s eyes twinkled. And at last, he nodded to them.

“You two look tired. Get some proper sleep!”

The room exhaled as one. Umina and Wil sagged as Niers merrily strode to the Fraerling-ways that would lead him through his citadel and to his quarters. Venaz silently patted Wil on the shoulder. Marian exhaled as she walked next to Umina.

“It’s been weeks! He’s just teasing us. He does it every class.”

“It’s not just mean, it’s sadistic.”

Cameral agreed, locking his head into place on his shoulders. He looked sympathetic; everyone in the classroom had been expecting Niers to summon Wil and Umina to let them ask their question, the one question he’d answer truthfully! But he hadn’t, and it had been over a month.

“It’s like getting a wish from a Jinn. I knew it was too good to be true.”

Yerranola exclaimed as the older students moved out of the class. Feshi turned her head to stare at the Selphid.

“A Jinn?”

“I think that’s what they’re called. They live on Chandrar. I was doing research and apparently they’re one of the dead species. You know, like harpies?”

“Oh. What’s this about a wish?”

“Legend has it that you could get them to grant you wishes. Except, you know, they’re always bad, or they don’t get fulfilled the way you think.”

“Typical. But the Professor isn’t nearly so dishonorable. This is clearly another one of his pranks. Or—a lesson! He wouldn’t withhold the question once you’ve won it!”

Venaz snorted. By now, the other students had reconciled themselves to Umina and Wil’s victory, at least outwardly. Marian nodded. Umina just clutched at her midriff.

“My stomach hurts. I don’t even know if I’ll be able to ask the question when it finally happens. I mean—”

She looked at Wil. He was staring ahead. After a moment, he glanced up.

“I wonder how this affects the King of Destruction. Tiqr was an ally—but it makes sense not to have supported it. It’s too far away and it clearly couldn’t hold. It’s a thorn in the conquering nation’s sides now, but that’s still one less ally. I’m going to do some research. Anyone joining me?”

“Wil! We were talking about the question!”

“I’m not thinking about it. Or else I’ll panic wondering how long I have to wait.”

The young man compressed his lips. The other students nodded; that was wise. After a moment, a voice spoke up from the back.

“Hey Marian.”

The Centauress turned and saw Kissilt, the surly Drake walking with them. He normally didn’t keep company with them given Umina’s presence. The Drake looked straight at Marian.

“What? Anything wrong, Kissilt?”

“Yeah. Marian, give me my damn money!”



—-



They said Femithain was cunning. A pragmatic leader who moved his country to best suit it. And of course, they said the Titan was a genius, one of the greatest—perhaps the­ greatest [Strategists] in the world. And that was probably true. But here’s a question ‘they’ sometimes forgot to ask.

How great was ‘greatest’? If you were the world’s best, were you the best the world had ever seen? Ever? In the entire history of the world, from start to finish, was Niers Astoragon the, definitively best, undisputed champion of [Strategists]?

No. Of course not! History was a far crueler measure than ‘now’. And ‘they’ deserved the same contempt. ‘They’ had memories that barely extended to childhood and only inaccurate and often biased accounts of history to rely on. And history was written not only by the victors, but often, by people who hadn’t actually been there. Could you really trust a [Historian] to do their job right? A [Writer] to lay out the facts without bias?

Of course not. Today was always better than yesterday. Or the past was always good because it was old and thus nostalgic. The future was ever waiting and people were stupid because they forgot. Niers Astoragon might be among the best [Strategists] today. But was he the best in a hundred years? What about three hundred? Three thousand? Did he even rank on the top 100 list of best [Strategists] this millennia?

The Quarass of Germina knew the answer. Or at least, she had a better chance of answering a question like that than almost anyone in this world. Because she remembered. She had lived and died lifetimes upon lifetimes, and she could remember the best of the best. They’d all died like the rest, but she could measure and recall.

That was her power. That was what made the Quarass of Germina dangerous, powerful. That was what made her ruler of Germina, protector of Ger, one of the four Shield Kingdoms of Chandrar. And she remembered why Germina was a Shield Kingdom. She was the Quarass, and she had died mere months ago. But the Quarass lives.

The Quarass lives. And now she sat in Reim, in a castle that she could remember being built oh, fifteen hundred years ago. Well, it had been just a keep then; it had only achieved the current form around eight hundred years back, give or take, after a number of renovations and three sackings. And it was even different now, thanks to the efforts of Drevish, the [Architect], one of the King’s Seven.

He had been gifted. The Quarass had known any number of [Architects] and talented builders and planners of wonders over her many lives. Even so, she ranked Drevish as in her top twenty. Probably even top ten. She took points off because she disliked his personality. Or at least, the other Quarass had.

She remembered it. A woman who feared the King of Destruction, enough to risk everything to kill him. She had spoken with the Emperor of Sands, listened to his words over the warnings in her head. The Quarass could remember her death. She remembered her last scream, choking, trying to flee. And the face of her death. Red-gold hair. And a sword.

It was a memory a second old. A lifetime past. But it still disconcerted her. For now that same person sat in front of her. Flos of Reim, Flos Reimarch, the King of Destruction, her death, was listening. Rain had been falling, but it had stopped at last. Now, the water dripped from the eaves of his palace. He raised his head and spoke quietly.

“Alive?”

“Yes. So I am told.”

The Quarass spoke of Tiqr, of the events she had heard through her own sources. Tiqr had fallen. Empress Nsiia lived. Flos nodded, his shoulders relaxing.

“I am relieved. I have heard of Illivere and their Magus-Crafter. In passing. The man seems capable. And Nsiia may well…”

He trailed off. He did not look happy, for all the news was a relief. The Quarass studied him.

They were an odd pair. He was far older than her, still physically fit and showing little signs of his age, but nevertheless past his prime when he had terrified the world. And she? She was a girl. Barely thirteen. Nevertheless, they were rulers.

And he still mourned. Empress Nsiia, one of his companions of old had survived. That relieved the King of Destruction, clearly. But he bowed his head. Tiqr had still fallen. Flos Reimarch stared past the Quarass. She searched her memories for a time she had seen him thus. A few times. He had looked far worse when he had entered into his slumber.

Hundreds of lifetimes were hers to call upon. She could remember countless faces like the King of Destruction’s, people of every species in their triumphs and despair. She could remember it—and it gave her an insight. The King of Destruction was far from broken. But he was genuinely grieving. That was valuable to know, so the child took the information, trying to use it and her memories to guide her forwards.

That was the Quarass of Germina. Old and young. She was ancient beyond almost any other being in this world. But it was still a child who held the memories, who made the decisions. Thus, each Quarass was different. Some had been wise, others cunning. Some had been cowards, or simply shortsighted. The Quarass could remember them all, how they had thought, and how their own memories had led Germina to success or despair.

That gave her power, for all she was but a girl. Germina took its strength from her. Their famed [Assassins] used techniques she recalled perfectly; no books were needed or had ever been written. The poisons were ones she had designed in lifetimes gone.

She had more power too. Knowledge of classes. Levels. Skills, and secret advancements. That was true power. She could turn her subjects into what best suited them. Her [Highborn], one of the three protectors who had sworn to serve her by blood, Vaitsha, had already begun her change. The Quarass had told her how to change her class—[Highborn of Coin], a weak class, into a rare and deadly one.

The process was not easy, but if Vaitsha had the will, she would become as beautiful and as deadly as the serpents in whose fangs ran Germina’s venom.

However, all that power came with a flaw. The Quarass could see that the world held patterns that repeated themselves. People leveled, acted in certain predictable ways. But the problem was that while things happened the same way, they never, ever happened exactly the same way twice.

The previous Quarass had been a foolish woman. Overly vain, bitter at kneeling to Flos Reimarch. She had never deserved her position to begin with; she had poisoned her mother and taken the throne, only to realize too late what being the Quarass meant. It meant knowing her mother’s contempt for her and the bitterness of her own death. It had broken her. The new Quarass did not wish to end the way of the old.

Tread cautiously, then. The King of Destruction was like many men the Quarasses had met—even been. The current Quarass could remember being a man in a number of her lives. And that was an odd experience. But she had to admit, Flos of Reim wasn’t a simple bull you could anticipate. Parts of him were straightforward beyond belief. But other things made little sense.

“King Reimarch.”

He looked up. And straightened, remembering her presence. Flos gave the Quarass a weary smile and reached for a cup.

“Quarass. My apologies. You have caught me unguarded. I confess, the news of Tiqr weighed heavily on my mind. It is done. Let us speak of the present. I have kept you waiting.”

She inclined her head. His words were without guile.

“I understand, King Reimarch. Then, the reason for my visit.”

His gaze sharpened.

“Ah, yes. A discussion of Germina’s future. I have wondered when this conversation would occur.”

“We are allies of Reim. So I have pledged. I would ask you, now, King of Destruction, whether that means serving under Reim, or as true allies of old. And I would know more of your reasons for your return.”

“Ah. The reason for my awakening.”

Flos nodded. He watched the Quarass, now like…his eyes were hard to read. No, not like some bear of a ruler, all straightforward and bullish. Not completely. The Quarass shifted. She had wondered herself what her future held. Now, Flos paused.

“Quarass, I have no plans on erasing Germina. Nor will I put you in danger or threaten your life. I swore by the Shield Kingdoms, by Germina’s soil and Ger’s Oasis to shed my blood before yours. I swore it by Reim, Quarass. I do not forswear that oath.”

That was true. The Quarass wanted to relax, but her memories kept her wary, for all she saw he was telling the truth.

“Nevertheless, Reim may endanger Germina by its ambitions. And we are allies.”

A question. Flos nodded absently.

“Yes. We are, Quarass. But I am aware that the Quarass does what is best for Germina. To endure is your nation’s purpose. I would rather we march in step, but we will see what your choice is.”

He turned his head and the Quarass had an unpleasant sensation as the King of Destruction looked straight through her. After all, he had met her previous incarnations—two of them. He had experience with her. She cursed her predecessor, but kept none of it on her face.

“I cannot swear Germina will follow Reim entirely into the abyss, King Reimarch. But I am not my predecessor.”

Flos studied her and nodded slowly.

“No, you are certainly not. And I am content with sharing my plans with you, Quarass. My ambitions and reason for awakening, at least. I believe the Quarass of Germina is too knowledgeable to act rashly regardless of the situation.”

And because Germina could burn so easily if Reim turned against it. But both knew that went without saying. It was hard for the Quarass to betray Flos Reimarch. She and her kingdom had too much to lose. The Quarass was glad Flos thought the same way. It meant he would trust her. He waved a hand towards the window.

“Before we begin, however—I may have to attend to my second issue of state. You recall the army at my border?”

“Of course. Khelt.”

The army of twenty thousand. The Quarass could well recall what that ‘issue’ was. Flos nodded.

“Khelt. King Fetohep has deigned to send me a message of his displeasure. Mars and Gazi are handling him, but I have no intention of being pressured by Fetohep’s demands.”

“Ah. What does Fetohep will?”

She’d guessed that was the case. The Quarass moved her hand, drank from the cup of water she’d asked for. Wine was a poor drink to converse with in these matters. And she was far too young. Dead gods, but she hated remembering how good it tasted. It was very hard to be an alcoholic in hundreds of lifetimes and sober now.

Flos made a face as he drank from his cup. It wasn’t even great wine, but still—the Quarass resisted the urge to watch.

“At a guess? A vow of non-interference. Pledged in blood, most likely. He senses Reim’s weakness. I’m not inclined to give him what he desires, but you know Khelt.”

She nodded sourly, drinking the nourishing water. Flos went on, wiping his mouth carelessly.

“I would rather have Khelt’s aid, if not their alliance yet. But I believe I would negotiate poorly with Fetohep. He and I do not get along.”

They did not. The Quarass’ memories flickered. Fetohep and the King of Destruction nearly coming to war at a dinner hosted in Khelt’s palace. She sensed an opportunity and jumped on it.

“King Reimarch. If Fetohep’s will is not appeased, he will not cease.”

“I’m sure you’re right. I was thinking of marching an army over his border, but that might provoke him.”

Flos grimaced. The Quarass leaned forwards, keeping her voice neutral to hide her eagerness, but it was hard.

“I could intercede with Fetohep. He has a longstanding connection to Germina.”

“Hm. You would do that for Reim?”

Flos looked pleasantly surprised. The Quarass sat back, carefully.

“We are allies. It would be a small effort. However…if you will tell me what reason you have for awakening from your slumber, I will agree to it. And what makes your two aides, Teres, and Trey, so valuable.”

Her eyes flicked to Flos’ face as he paused. That was the information the Quarass craved. The reason for the King of Destruction’s return? Invaluable in understanding him and in other ways. And his strange followers, the twins? The girl that had been present when he had first met her? Every instinct in the Quarass told her they were important too.

Flos of Reim paused, considering the Quarass’ request for a moment. She held her breath, wondering if she’d been too straightforward with her demands. But he was a straightforward man. She wasn’t prepared for him to grin and nod.

“Of course! I happily agree! You do me a great service, Quarass. Let us speak then, of my return!”

He smiled, laughing, and she stared at his face. Wait. Her memories kicked her in the head. He’d wanted her to ask and volunteer her aid with Khelt and Fetohep. He was going to tell her anyways and she’d—

The Quarass kept a blush from staining her cheeks, but only just. She reached for her cup and drank the stupid water. For a second she was a child again, scowling, realizing she’d fallen into his trap. Flos Reimarch smiled and lifted his cup.

“Ah, Quarass. We are allies. And I think you will agree. But trust is so hard to hold, isn’t it?”

“It is.”

She muttered, thinking of lifetimes of betrayal. Flos raised his cup and she hers. They clinked quietly and she studied him again. Flos nodded as he drank.

“Well, let us try. You are not the old Quarass. And I liked the first one I met. She was a grand woman.”

“Yes. She was. Flawed, but I will attempt to surpass her. Yet that depends on you. On Reim. Tell me, King of Destruction. Why did you return?”

Flos sat back. He sighed, and the Quarass saw him as a young boy, bowing beside his parents and staring up at her on her throne. She saw him as a man, leading an army past her borders and asking where Germina stood—against Reim or for it. And then, sword in hand, her death.

Then and now. The Quarass waited. At last, Flos looked up.

“Quarass, my return stems from the two you mentioned. The twins, Trey and Teres. You are correct. They have worth far beyond your imagining.”

“Ah.”

She drank in his words, greedily. Flos Reimarch nodded. And then his eyes twinkled.

“I wonder, Quarass. You who have lived countless lives surely imagine any number of reasons why I would return. Why the twins would matter to me. You who know so much, listen. Trey and Teres are unique because of their origin. They come from another world. Tell me, Quarass. In all your lifetimes, have you ever heard of that?”

The child, the Quarass, blinked. She stared at Flos. First she stared for the signs of a lie. Then for madness. And then her mind assessed his words. Weighing. Recalling. She stared at him, unblinking. And then, with the best, most expressionless face she had, she sat back. She reached for her cup and stopped before her hand knocked it over.

The Quarass of Germina looked at Flos Reimarch, the King of Destruction. After a moment of thought, she slowly shook her head.

“No. Tell me more.”



—-



Trey Atwood was sitting in a parlor. Or maybe a tea room? It was a place to speak in, to relax—but in a refined way. A salon, although he doubted Flos referred to it as such.

It was a waiting room, really. As Flos and the Quarass spoke in private, her entourage was settled in Reim’s palace. The people of Germina were quiet, surly, even, but they’d been at odds with Reim just months prior. It was more incredible that they were willing to come here peacefully at all.

But they loved their Quarass. She was like a god to them, although that concept was foreign to the people of this world. Still, that was how Trey understood it. He and Teres were sitting with two of the people who’d come with Germina. Flos had insisted and apparently they were meant to talk.

“Ah. Er, well, I’m pleased to meet you. I’m Trey. Trey Atwood. And this is Teres.”

Trey looked at the two guests sitting across from him. The two Germinan guests stared back. They were an odd pair. One was a boy, barely fourteen, maybe, with a scar on one cheek and a another down his leg. He looked like a street kid, for all he wore fancy riding gear. And the other was a woman in her thirties, clearly noble. Pretty, too. She bowed her head slightly.

“I am Highborn Vaitsha Zectiou. I have pledged to be the Quarass’ companion.”

“Oh? Er—is that an honorary title?”

Vaitsha frowned.

“It is the most honorary. I have sworn to guide the Quarass and protect her until my death. May my blood spill on the sands before hers.”

“Ah.”

Trey missed home. People didn’t usually lead with that as an opening line. But he bowed and nodded.

“The Quarass lives. Um…his Majesty is one of the three, then, isn’t he?”

Vaitsha and the boy stiffened. They glanced at each other and Vaitsha nodded.

“That is true. He has sworn to shed his blood before hers. So—yes. May it come to pass.”

There was a lot to unpack there and Trey wasn’t about to touch it with a ten-foot pole or his magical staff. He decided to sip from his tea cup. He saw Vaitsha do the same after a moment. And then cough.

“Are you okay?”

“I am…well. Thank you.”

She looked…pale. Paler than the young boy standing next to her. As Trey watched, Vaitsha set down her tea cup and sipped from a little vial. He noticed her hands were gloved. Perhaps she was unwell? Sick?

Trey didn’t ask. He looked around, desperately, for help. But Teres was talking with the other two guests in the waiting room. He wanted to throw something at the back of her head. But instead, Trey turned to the boy.

“And you are?”

The street boy looked up defiantly as he tried to drink from his cup like Vaitsha.

“I am Khalid, who has no other name. I serve the Quarass as well, as her protector and dagger! She lives forever!”

“She lives forever.”

The two Germinans nodded. Trey looked around desperately. At last, Teres saw his look and came over.

“Hello. I’m Teres. We’ve met. This is Nawal and Calac.”

She introduced the other two young people in the room. Teres smiled at Nawalishifra. The [Blacksmith] looked very uncomfortable as she bowed and murmured a greeting behind her veil. The other young man bowed stiffly.

“My greetings to you, Highborn Vaitsha and Khalid. May the Quarass live forever.”

He turned and bowed slightly to Trey.

“Lord Atwood. Lady Atwood tells me you are the pupil of Lady Gazi.”

“Oh. Yes. Um, we haven’t met. Pleased to meet you.”

Trey stood up and offered a hand. Calac took it. He had a strong, callused grip. He nodded to Trey, stepped back, and proceeded to sit and sip from his tea cup without saying anything for the rest of the conversation.

Calac was Venith’s son, maybe a year younger than Trey and Teres, but taller, muscled—more like an athlete than the twins. He knew how to use a sword, and he was a [Lord]—he’d been trained to fight and lead soldiers since he was a child. He was also in disgrace with his father, and clearly resented being lumped together with the guests in this room.

Trey still remembered Calac trying to attack Flos before the King of Destruction’s duel with Venith. He’d seemed to be headstrong and eager to prove himself in the few times they’d met. He had a problem with Venith, his father, but Trey couldn’t fault him there. Venith would be a hard father to impress.

Teres stared at Vaitsha and Khalid as silence took over again. Trey gestured and Nawal, after a moment’s hesitation, sat on their couch. On the end, far enough away from Trey that there was no chance of them even bumping elbows. She was very quiet. Uncharacteristically nervous given her usual pithy language. Teres spoke into the silence after a few very painful second.

“So uh, how’s Germina?”

“Germina rebuilds. The people of Ger have their Quarass again. She is changing Germina, as we are allied to Reim.”

The answer came quickly from Vaitsha. Teres nodded.

“Great.”

“Hi Nawal.”

Trey whispered to Nawalishifra. She looked at him, scowled behind her veil, and then bowed.

“Lord Atwood. You did not tell me you were a lord, you, Trey Atwood.”

He raised his hands.

“I’m not! Calac just said that.”

Nawal shook her head. She was staring at him as if he were a…goat. With sharp teeth.

“You have the King of Destruction’s ear. That alone makes you the same level as a [Lord] or even a [Prince]. You are important, more so than you told me. You did not tell me you were his personal servants, trusted friends who spoke to him as equals.”

“Well, not as equals—”

“You two ride with the King of Destruction?”

Khalid interrupted, staring at Trey and Teres. The young man hesitated.

“…Sometimes?”

“And he grants you the privilege of addressing him? You two?”

Vaitsha blinked. Calac looked up silently and nodded. Teres looked at Trey.

“He lets everyone address him as equals, right Trey?”

“Right. It’s not…”

The two twins trailed off. Nawali was looking around. Calac shook his head. Vaitsha spoke slowly.

“The King of Destruction keeps few by his side. Informality or not, he named you as his two trusted friends. Then, you are much like his vassals. His Seven. A [Lord] would do well to bow before you. I am Highborn of Ger, and thus lower in station.”

She bowed deeply. Then Vaitsha gave Khalid a significant look. The young boy sat up, looking alarmed, then copied Vaitsha’s bow. He gave Trey a look of deep suspicion and clamped his lips shut.

Trey sighed. He was happy to talk to Nawali—when they weren’t in the company of others. She seemed wary of the Germinans, and of Calac for that matter. Teres was shifting, about to ask something else that would probably get them in hot water. Calac was scowling and the two Germinans looked at everyone as if they were potential enemies. It was almost a relief when a [Servant] came to summon Teres and Trey out of that room.

“The King of Destruction wishes to see you.”

The two twins stood up. Nawal gave Trey a narrow-eyed look and he flushed, searching for an excuse. But there really wasn’t one, so he hurried out of the room. In the silence that followed, Nawal twitched her veil. Calac sipped some tea and scowled. Khalid and Vaitsha waited. After a while, she coughed.



—-



Trey and Teres entered the room where Flos and the Quarass were sitting. They came in slowly, aware of the Quarass’ presence. When Trey saw the small girl sitting across from the King of Destruction, he nearly laughed. Until she looked up and stared at him. Then he stared into her old eyes, shuddered, and remembered.

She was the Quarass born again. He slipped into the room behind Teres and bowed. Teres did not.

“You wanted to see us, Flos?”

The Quarass’ gaze flicked sharply to Teres’ face. Trey winced, but Teres refused to address Flos by his title. Nor did the King of Destruction insist. Indeed, he smiled and gestured to two more chairs that had been set out.

“Yes indeed! Come in and sit, Trey, Teres. Have you greeted the Quarass’ companions?”

“Highborn Vaitsha and Khalid? Yeah. We met them.”

“Excellent. I hope you will become their friends. They fulfill a similar role to the Quarass as you two have with me.”

Trey bit his lip and Teres coughed. The Quarass was looking from Flos to them, and especially at Teres. Trey recalled that Teres had helped set up the scenario in which she was reborn. He looked at the King of Destruction.

“Your Majesty, um, what happened at Tiqr? Has the siege ended?”

Flos’ face froze for a second, and then he sighed.

“It has fallen. But Nsiia lives.”

“Oh! That’s…good?”

The twins looked at each other, worried. Flos sighed.

“Yes. I suppose it is the best I could have wished for. Nsiia asked me that I might help her end Tiqr, in death and destruction. But I could not. So Tiqr falls and she is captive. But she lives. That is the cost of my peace so far.”

“You could have helped her, though. Right?”

Teres frowned at Flos. The King of Destruction looked up and stared at her.

“No, Teres. I swore an oath. I will not make war without cause and Tiqr was not mine when it was attacked.”

“But she asked…?”

Flos shook his head.

“That was what Nsiia asked herself. But I cannot dance about my oath, Teres. Or play with words like some ambassador or diplomat, Trey, Teres. I hold the honor of Reim, my people, my kingdom, upon my actions. That is what it means to give my word.”

“Okay then. I was just asking.”

Teres fell silent. Flos smiled slightly, and sat back. He looked tired and murmured as he looked into the drags of his cup.

“Yes. It is done. Nsiia lives. As a captive of Illivere, but better to live, than…yes, better to live, and in Illivere’s lands. I will return Tiqr. I swear it.”

He shook his head.

“Enough of that. It is done, and I have dwelled on it far too long. Trey, Teres, I have summoned you to speak to the Quarass. Teres, you have met her before.”

“Yeah. Hello.”

Teres lifted a hand. She tried to meet the Quarass’ eyes, but hesitated as the Quarass stared at her. Trey saw the gaze flick to him. Old eyes in a young face. He froze, and then bowed, belatedly. Teres did not.

“Your Majesty, forgive me. I’m Trey Atwood. And this is Teres. My sister.”

The Quarass inclined her head.

“King Reimarch has informed me of your natures.”

“You mean…”

Teres shot a glance at Flos, looking alarmed. He smiled.

“I’ve told the Quarass about your world. Would one of you mind showing her your phone? I believe that will satisfy her doubt.”

“Flos!”

Both Teres and Trey shot up. The King of Destruction waved a hand.

“Sit. It’s hardly a secret, is it. There are at least a few dozen of you running about.”

“But it’s a secret! Isn’t it dangerous to…”

Teres looked at the Quarass, biting her tongue. Flos shook his head.

“The Quarass is Reim’s ally, Teres. She has sworn it. Moreover, I require her trust and aid with Khelt. Come, bring out your phones, one of you. She does not believe you two are from another world, yet.”

“It is an astounding claim. Have you proof of this?”

The Quarass looked at Flos as Trey dug in one pocket. The King of Destruction laughed.

“I saw them appear in my throne room, Quarass. They were dressed outlandishly, and they had no idea who I was or even of magic! And this—ah, thank you, Trey. This is a trinket from their world. Give it to the Quarass.”

He watched as Trey gingerly offered the Quarass his smartphone. She stared at the lit screen, and then at Trey.

“Um, it’s a device, your majesty. It turns on when you hit this button and—”

Flos held up a hand and Trey fell silent. The Quarass took the iPhone from Trey and stared at it. She blinked at the screen, held up a hand—looked at Flos.

“It’s quite safe. You tap on the screen to make the functions active, like an artifact. Don’t squeeze it too hard or it breaks.”

“I see.”

Gingerly, the Quarass ran her finger over the screen, staring at the locked screen. Trey opened his mouth and Flos waved him to silence. The Quarass blinked as she tapped one of the buttons. Then she turned the iPhone over, regarding the smooth screen, the back, the buttons. She tapped the power button and blinked as the screen turned black. When it turned back on she stared at it and raised her head.

Flos was grinning, clearly delighted by her reaction. The Quarass met his eyes and then looked at Trey. She hesitated—her eyes flickered, and she shook her head.

“Impossible. I have never seen a device like this. Not in any lifetime. I see the truth in your words, King of Destruction.”

“Just from the phone? You haven’t even seen what it can do.”

Flos was disappointed by the Quarass’ ready acceptance. She shook her head, tapping on Trey’s smartphone gingerly.

“I need no further proof than this. This—this is a strange material. What is it?”

She was referring to the screen and casing. Trey blinked.

“Plastic. And the screen is glass, and, uhm, metal, your Majesty. It’s just…”

He trailed off. ‘Just’? How did you make plastic, anyways? How hard was it to make? Probably…very hard. The Quarass was staring at the casing of the screen.

“It has never been made. I have seen metal, but this is not. Weaker than metal, I think.”

“Much weaker. It cracks if you press too hard. But show her the rest of the phone!”

“I will. Um, your Majesty? Er—”

“Quarass. Address her as Quarass, Trey. She has no other name than that.”

Flos nodded at the young girl. Trey hesitated as he stood up. She handed the phone back, staring at him. He leaned over, unlocking his phone.

“My apologies, Quarass. It has uh—”

“Show her the photo. No, the video! Not the bird.”

Flos was enjoying himself to no end. Trey shot him a look as he opened up the camera app. The Quarass blinked as she stared at the screen and listened to Trey’s explanation. Her eyes flicked to Teres. She watched Trey take a picture, took the phone, and copied him. She blinked at the slightly off-focus image. Then she lowered the phone.

“I see. Everything you have said is true, then. Or so it seems.”

“I have told you no lies, Quarass. Isn’t it extraordinary?”

“Yes.”

The flat reply made Trey think the Quarass was anything but pleased. She was staring at him as if he were a monster, and—Trey glanced at Teres. She raised her eyebrows and the twins shared a thought.

What had Flos told her about their world? Was this a good thing? Neither voiced the thought aloud, though. The Quarass handed Trey back his iPhone and watched as he put it in his pants. Flos rubbed his hands together happily.

“I must have the twins show you the other amazing things they can do with it. But later. You agree, then, Quarass? Even Fetohep might be persuaded if you pressed him thusly. As for Germina…what say you?”

The Quarass paused for a second, and then her small head nodded. She looked at Flos.

“I agree. And I accede to your request. I will speak to him, then.”

“Excellent! You do me a great favor, Quarass. And we must speak more after your return. But Fetohep does not wait and I believe even Gazi and Mars will tire of his army soon. Let us deal with him, then discuss the matter at length. I will host you in my palace—but first—Mizzi!”

Flos raised his voice. The door opened and a [Servant] bowed.

“Your Majesty?”

“Horses! No, a carriage for the Quarass! Horses for me—and my armor! We ride to the border! Quarass, need you anything before you leave?”

“I will have one of my own drive your carriage, if it pleases you, King of Destruction.”

The Quarass rose, and Flos nodded. He beckoned to the twins. They followed him. Teres frowned at Flos’ back.

“Hold on! Where are we going?”

“To deal with Khelt. Remember the army assailing our borders, Teres? The Quarass and I have reached an agreement. She will help me deal with Fetohep and Khelt. We will ride there. Oh—and Quarass?”

“Yes?”

She stopped as Flos strode for the door. He looked back and stared at the twins for a second. His lips moved as he stared at Teres, and then he shook his head.

“Take Trey with you to meet Fetohep.”

“Wait, what?”

Both Trey and Teres exclaimed. Trey looked at the Quarass as she stared at him, and then turned to Flos. Teres glared at him.

“Why Trey and not me? Wait—what does this Fetohep want?”

“I’ll explain it on the road, Teres. Trey will go with the Quarass. Trey, have Ulyse charge your phone before you leave. You may be Fetohep’s guest for the night.”

“Wait, but why me? Your Majesty, what am I supposed to do?”

Flos was already striding down the corridors, calling for his armor and a mace. [Servants] flooded around him as the Quarass walked beside him. Her people were hurrying towards her, Vaitsha and Khalid staring daggers at Flos. The Quarass snapped.

“I am journeying to Khelt. Send Hedolac to the stables. He will drive the carriage that takes me. No one else will accompany me. You will remain as guests of Reim. Here.”

“Quarass!”

Her subjects protested as one. Vaitsha, Khalid—all of them gave Flos a look of deep suspicion as he grinned, donning his armor in the corridor with the help of some servants. The Quarass raised a hand, instantly silencing them.

“I have agreed to do so to aid Reim. Our allies. I will be in no danger in Khelt.”

“Even so, Quarass, let us accompany you—”

Vaitsha protested, and Khalid stepped forwards as the other Germinans nodded. The Quarass held up a finger and all of her subjects stopped. It was impressive; even Flos couldn’t silence his vassals like that.

“No. None of you are necessary to negotiate with Fetohep. He would see bodyguards as an insult likewise. Vaitsha and Khalid, you two lack the formality King Fetohep demands. You will all stay in Reim. Offer no disrespect.”

And that was that. The Germinans looked like they wanted to protest, but one look from their Quarass had them bowing. They still followed her as Flos strode down the corridor.

“Armor for Teres as well. Hm. Chainmail. And a helmet. Trey needs nothing.”

“Flos! Why is Trey going with the Quarass?”

“Because I think he might be useful to her.”

“And not me?”

Trey felt like Teres was missing the point here. At Flos’ words, all of Germina’s subjects gave him a death-glare, some of them putting their hands on their hilts. He didn’t want to go with the Quarass and her scary gaze, much less alone! But Flos just shook his head as he saw a man rush up with a selection of maces.

“That one. No—wait. Let me try the heft of this one. Yes, this one! Teres, for all your endearing qualities I find so helpful, you are a poor [Diplomat]. Mars is better. Trey, on the other hand, has a talent for it. He may well serve you, Quarass. And he has the phone.”

“You believe he is necessary?”

The Quarass looked dubiously at Trey. Flos laughed and clapped Trey on the shoulder. Trey nearly fell down.

“He is! Believe me, he will make the difference. We ride for Khelt’s border! Teres, stop fussing. You will accompany me. Khelt is a boring place. And Fetohep would enjoy you as much as he enjoys my company. Actually…no. No, as much as I’d enjoy the scene, you come with me. You have the sword Orthenon gave you? Good!”

They were out of the palace now, and Trey saw a carriage was already waiting. They weren’t too common in Reim, given the lack of roads, but Flos had demanded one and so it had appeared. It wasn’t particularly royal and some of Germina’s subjects looked aghast at their Queen riding in it. It was serviceable, though, and Flos nodded as he saw his own warhorse waiting. He turned to the Quarass.

“I will ride with you to the border. If only to deal with Fetohep’s nuisances. Shall we?”

“Very well. My subjects. I will return tomorrow.”

The Quarass dealt with the final protest as Teres mounted up. She looked at Trey as he hovered by the carriage.

“You’re going to Khelt, I guess, Trey.”

“I don’t know why.”

“He does. I’ll get it out of him. You just behave. Be careful of her. And don’t tell her too much!”

Teres jerked her head at Flos, and then glared at the Quarass. Trey nodded lamely. They reached up and clasped hands for a moment. Then the Quarass was turning to Trey.

“Come then.”

She stepped into the carriage as the driver, one of her subjects, helped her inside. He gave Trey no such help and in fact gave Trey a look that managed to communicate that if he did anything that made the Quarass so much as frown, Trey was dead. The young man hunched his shoulders as he sidled into the carriage. The Quarass was already sitting. Flos laughed and pointed.

“On to Khelt! Teres, with me!”

He had a bodyguard of a few dozen [Riders]. They set out at once and Trey saw the carriage begin moving. Instantly, a bit of dust stung his eyes. He heard the Quarass cough and hastily closed the leather coverlet. Glass had not been added to this coach and so now the carriage was dark, but for the outline of light around the doors and windows.

In the darkness, there was a little girl with a voice and eyes as old as time. She stared at him, unblinking. Trey was reminded of a horror movie. If she screamed, he’d jump out the window.

It was going to be a long ride. After a minute of silence, Trey had to break the silence. He bowed awkwardly from his seat.

“Um. I’m Trey, your—uh, Quarass.”

“Yes. King Reimarch has told me of you and your sister. Trey Atwood.”

He shuddered. The Quarass’ tone was emotionless, impossible to read. Her face was so still. She stared at him for a longer moment and then her eyes flicked to his pocket, where he had put his phone.

“The King of Destruction has told me how you met him. You awakened Flos Reimarch.”

“Um.”

Trey was starting to realize that was a very bad piece of information for anyone to know. He raised a hand lamely.

“By accident. It was just—we just appeared in front of him.”

“Yes. Tell me more of your world, Trey Atwood.”

“What? Oh, it’s not—”

“Do not lie to me. Flos Reimarch has told me of the advancements of your world. Earth. Tell me more.”

The Quarass’ eyes were trying to burrow into Trey’s head through his skull. He gulped, remembering Teres’ words.

“It’s—we have a few things that—”

“Do not attempt to hide the truth.”

“I’m not—”

“Lies. You are attempting to hide the truth. Speak with honesty or I will know.”

The little Quarass stared at Trey. He wilted under that thousand-year-stare. There was nowhere to run. And he felt like if he jumped out the window, the Quarass would just stop the carriage and make her driver put him back in. He gave up and did his best.

“Well, it’s called Earth and it has no magic…um, it’s really a lot like this world, and not like it at the same time. You see, in my world…”

The Quarass listened to Trey’s explanation of what Earth was. There was so much to say, from the fact that they had no magic, to the technological advancements, the nations—she just listened, not gasping or interrupting like Flos would every two seconds. It was unnatural. The only time she stopped him was when Trey tried to hide something—somehow she could see it in him.

“Enough. Tell me of your weapons.”

“Weapons? I don’t—”

“The weapons that destroy cities. The weapons that fire for miles. Like crossbows, but a thousand times better. The King of Destruction has trusted me with the knowledge. Tell me.”

What was Flos thinking? Was he thinking? Trey had to believe so. He tried to obfuscate, but the Quarass dragged the words out of him. He couldn’t not tell her, and Trey began to worry she was doing something to him. After he began chattering about nuclear weapons and radiation, he was certain. He couldn’t stop.

“I see. Enough. How many nations fill your world? How large are the armies?”

“Well, there’s a million soldiers in China’s army, it’s the largest—”

What was scariest was the way the Quarass seemed to believe every word coming out of Trey’s mouth. And that she believed it, and still, hearing of nuclear weapons, of planets and people landing on the moon, she didn’t react. Trey was certain it was a mask, a poker face, but he couldn’t see past it.

She didn’t even flinch when he told her about the population of Earth. Her eyes never left Trey’s face. He guessed she was trying to tell if he was lying about anything. She made him tell her about nations, history, and then technology like his phone. The carriage’s dark interior lit up as he showed her some pictures from Earth.

That was when he saw the child come out. The Quarass leaned forwards, staring at the foreign pictures, and then demanded to play the game Flos had talked about. Trey didn’t have Flappy Bird, but he had other apps. For half an hour he watched her play Candy Crush and shatter his high-scores like Gazi had with Teres. He saw her smile, and then glance up at him and school her face to expressionless again.

She was a child at times. It leaked out of her when she was unguarded. But other times she was the ruler, stone-faced, piercing eyes. But after a while, she began to relax a bit in Trey’s presence and he in hers.

She wasn’t very haughty. From hearing about Queen Calliope of Hellios and her son from Teres, Trey had expected the Quarass to be at least a bit arrogant. Or spoiled, even, being a child. But the Quarass seemed content for him to ask her questions.

“Um, so you’re the Quarass of Germina. The old one—”

“Died. Yes. Do you know what a Quarass is, Trey Atwood?”

“Not entirely. Teres told me about how you were…summoned?”

“Reborn.”

“Right. And Flos—King Reimarch—he told me the Quarasses all share the same memory. You remember all the old Quarass’ lives. And you rule a Shield Kingdom.”

“Germina. One of four remaining. This is all correct.”

“So you remember…everything?”

“Yes.”

She waited. Trey hesitated.

“Like, everything or just…”

The Quarass sighed slightly. She stared at Trey and pointed to his side.

“You have an aura of magic about you. You are a practicing [Mage]. Do you carry a magical item?”

“I have a training wand Gazi lent me—”

“Give it to me.”

Trey did. The Quarass inspected the wand dismissively. Then she pointed it.

“I have never cast a spell in this body. But my fifth predecessor before me was a [Mage] of some talent. In times past I have been far greater. In one, I was even considered as a possible [Archmage]. The memory of each spell rests within me. [Light].”

A shimmering orb of soft yellow light filled the carriage. Trey gasped; it was a beautiful glow, far better than the light from this phone. The Quarass nodded.

“That is a simple spell. This is a Tier 5 spell. [Pestilence’s Touch].”

She pointed the wand at him. Trey shouted in horror, but it was too late. The wand’s tip pressed into his chest.

“What are—”

He jerked backwards. The Quarass lowered the wand. There was a sound from the front.

“Quarass?”

“Silence. I am well.”

“Yes, Quarass.”

The little girl offered the wand back to Trey. He was feeling himself frantically. Was he hot? What had she—he stopped as she smiled at him.

“You are not affected. I could not cast the spell.”

“That wasn’t right!”

Trey snatched the wand back. The Quarass sat back, looking pleased with herself as he edged away from her.

“Listen to me, Trey Atwood. My knowledge is vast, but my ability to use it is limited. I know magics of old. Spells from previous lifetimes. But I have very little magic as of now. Often, Quarasses are selected for their talents. But my body is weak. I remember fighting, but I cannot lift a sword properly. Once, I slew monsters. I can remember it. But do you think I could kill even a single adult with this?”

She raised an arm, gesturing to her young body. Trey shook his head. The Quarass went on, bitterly.

“I remember men and women and even beasts Quarasses before me have taken as lovers. I know how to seduce, or kill in cold blood. I remember how to shoot an arrow a mile and strike an ant sitting upon a cactus’ spines. But that is but memory. The knowledge of my body is gone. And wisdom is only part memory.”

She tapped one cheek lightly. Trey nodded. The Quarass sighed.

“I am Quarass of Germina. My duty is to hold the Shield Kingdoms against their foe, to ensure Germina endures. But I am not invincible. Far from it. Until I level, until I grow, I am weak and I will do what must be done so I and Germina survive. That is best suited by allying with the King of Destruction, regardless of the past. So. We are allies. You will answer more of my questions now.”

Trey did, shakily. The Quarass let him ask his own questions as well. He was curious about Germina, having not visited it except when Flos’ army had invaded. She looked pleased at his curiosity. And then Trey asked a question that made her pause.

“Um, your companion. Highborn Vaitsha. Is she okay? She looked sick. She was drinking something when she met. Does she need medicine?”

The Quarass blinked at Trey and he’d wondered if he’d finally managed to offend her. But all she did was shake her head, tapping one lip and studying him.

“Interesting. You noticed that? Reimarch was correct. You may serve indeed. And you are correct. Vaitsha is sick. But she will live. She is sick, but by her own will. She is changing her class.”

“What? How?”

The girl shrugged.

“She is ingesting poison. Hence the gloves and vial.”

“Poison?”

“Just enough to live. Not enough to kill. She drinks poison and antidote each day, in greater quantities of each. If she lives—and I have taught her of poisons and ensured that she has the antidotes she needs—she will change her class. And her blood shall become poison and she will be Germina’s viper, a fitting servant.”

“But—what? That’s horrible!”

Trey looked at the Quarass, shocked. She just stared at him.

“It will change her class. She has a poor one at the moment, a mundane class. This will give her unique Skills. Power that she needs. That I need.”

“But she’s eating poison! She looked ill! Does it hurt?”

“Most certainly.”

“Then why—”

The Quarass narrowed her eyes. Trey shut up.

“I offered her a choice. For Germina, she accepted. She took the poison of her own will, knowing the agony it would cause her. That was her decision. By what right do you deny her right to choose?”

“I just—it seems wrong. Are you doing that to Khalid, too?”

Trey remembered the fierce young boy. The Quarass shook her head.

“Khalid is young. A boy. Unlike me, his classes are difficult to level at such a young age. He will take far longer, but he has begun training with the [First Warriors]. In time he will reveal to me what class he is most suited for. And he will be a champion like no other.”

“You’re shaping him into what you want him to be.”

It was an accusation. The Quarass lifted her shoulders.

“Should I not? Germina lives only through its Quarass. Without me, my country has nothing to set it apart from others, and far less than most. But Germina must endure. To survive, the rulers of Ger would lie with snakes and grasp at stalks of dust.”

Trey was silent at that. He shifted uncomfortably. The Quarass’ voice and the way she spoke reminded him of Flos. It was a ruler’s perspective. He tried to think of what Teres would say. Then he thought of something else and looked up.

“His Majesty helped make you the Quarass, didn’t he?”

“Yes. Although he did not find me. My [Councilor of State] did. He might have chosen better, but he was the least of my inner circle. Perhaps it is well that he chose me. My previous incarnation was a fool.”

She spoke so coldly. Trey looked at her.

“Couldn’t he have found someone older? It seems so…”

He paused.

“Cruel. I know it’s for the good of Germina. But was it the best for you? For Vaitsha?”

The Quarass was silent. She looked at Trey, and he saw a flicker of something. When she replied, it was more slowly. And she sat back against the seat of the carriage.

“I was chosen because I looked like the last Quarass. I would not have chosen myself. But fate gives little choices. Now I am Quarass. Perhaps it is a cruel destiny. Perhaps Vaitsha suffers at the cost of herself so Germina may gain. This is true, Trey Atwood.”

The girl paused. And for a moment she stared past him, at the floating ball of warm light. She reached for it, and cupped it in her hands. Then she tossed it and let it hover in the air between them. The Quarass looked at Trey and shook her head.

“However, I choose to be her. I chose to be Quarass of Germina and give myself for Germina. I could flee. I have fled in eighty seven lifetimes, some brief, some long and old. I will not. I am no coward.”

And that was all. Trey bowed slightly, and the Quarass nodded. They said nothing more for a while, until a fist hammered on the side of the coach. Trey jumped and the Quarass looked up. The window was jerked aside and both blinked in the sudden sunlight. Flos’ face and voice echoed through the carriage.

“Trey! Quarass! We’re nearly at the border! Open the door!”

Trey looked at the Quarass. She nodded and he opened the door, seeing the ground rush past. The Quarass ordered her driver to keep the carriage steady; Flos was riding alongside them.

He was beaming as he rode on horseback. Trey saw Flos was wearing sheets of metal—plate armor, save for his head. And his horse was similarly barded. He was riding quickly next to the carriage, but they were both moving far faster—the [King]’s Skill, [Rapid March], was moving them at nearly double the speed they’d normally be going.

“Your Majesty, shouldn’t we slow down?”

“Why? This is enjoyable! Teres, watch out for the carriage! Don’t talk—you’ll bite your tongue!”

Flos laughed, unconcerned with the very warning he was giving Teres. He rode forwards and pointed ahead.

“Before you head into Khelt, I wanted to show you Khelt’s armies! Don’t be worried; they’re undead, but we have it well in hand!”

Trey saw they were heading towards a valley of sorts—no, a dried-up river, a natural fortification that marked Reim’s borders. Flos waved ahead of them; Trey saw something in the distance.

“Gazi and Mars are holding off Khelt’s warriors! Teres and I will join them! Teres, don’t be alarmed!”

He nodded at Teres as she rode up beside him. Teres looked amused as she shouted back.

“We fought zombies before! They’re not scary; just disgusting! How dangerous can an army—”

Her teeth clapped together as she came down hard on the saddle. Trey winced. Flos sighed.

“Healing potion! You didn’t bite your tongue off; don’t worry! You have to learn not to do that. And as for zombies—there!”

He pointed ahead. Trey leaned out the carriage door slightly. His eyes widened in horror.

An army was holding their ground on one side of the dried valley. Reim’s army, led by Mars and Gazi, were locked in combat with Khelt’s soldiers. Trey saw the Serpent Hunters, slashing and whirling, their poison-coated blades hacking apart their foes. Parasol Stroll had the high ground and were literally blasting apart Khelt’s troops as their color parasols spun, aiding the [Mages] casting spells. The regular army held a line, using the height and loose soil to push back the army.

But Khelt’s [Soldiers] kept on coming. A line of them charged down the valley. Trey saw them now, as the carriage rolled to a stop. He saw dried flesh, gaping mouths with few teeth. Sunken sockets.

Zombies. Thousands of them. Twenty thousand—no, less, from all the fighting. Armed in broken and battered armor. They were emaciated, skin dried by Chandrar’s arid climate. Some were worn down to yellowed bone, but most still had dark, leathery flesh. Like mummies, in fact, minus the bandages. But that wasn’t the scary part.

A new wave of Khelt’s soldiers were charging at Reim’s defenders. Charging, not shuffling or groaning. They sprinted across the ground, ancient and rusted weapons, raised. Screaming.

“Uh.”

Trey made a squeaking sound. Teres halted, gulping down a mouthful of healing potion. The sound that Khelt’s soldiers made echoed through the air, raising goose bumps on Trey’s arms. Flos grinned as he lifted the mace he’d brought and pulled out a helmet.

“Zombies don’t run in your world, Trey? They do in this one! And Fetohep can make them sprint.”

“Are they—that’s a message?”

“The only one Khelt sends.”

The King of Destruction laughed. The wave of Khelt’s troops hit Reim’s [Soldiers]. They bounced off the walls of shields and clawed at the defenders, but Trey could see Gazi and Mars leading the [Soldiers], hacking apart the zombies with ease. But there were so many!

And yet, Flos just looked excited. He pointed as his bodyguard formed up around him. Teres was spitting blood, and her own sword was in her hands. Trey stared at Flos. The King of Destruction waved at him and the Quarass.

“We’ll deal with Fetohep’s message. Teres, stick with me! You’ll level today—try not to get bitten! Trey, follow the Quarass’ lead! I will see you tomorrow! Now, with me!”

He roared and surged forwards on his horse, catching everyone off-guard. His bodyguard and Teres pelted after him, and Trey’s sister wasn’t even able to say something after him. Ahead, Reim’s army had spotted their [King]. They roared as he raced towards their embattled lines.

“King of Destruction!”

Flos’ voice was a bellow. He charged straight for the flank of Khelt’s armies as the thousands of zombies turned towards him.

“[Royal Vanguard]! Gazi, Mars, to me!”

His unit of cavalry went through the first five ranks without even slowing. Flos swung his mace in a blur, grinning as he crushed bones and armor. His army surged forwards, and Trey saw Gazi and Mars leaving their positions, cutting towards him.

“He’s going to be surrounded!”

“Not so. Khelt’s army poses little threat to men in armor. Least of all the King of Destruction.”

The Quarass watched with detached amusement, watching the battle and Trey’s face. Flos had cut straight through his army and into his own lines. Trey saw him leap from his saddle, turn to Gazi and Mars—and then the three of them charged forwards by themselves! On foot!

“He’s off his horse!”

“A smart move. Losing a horse to a spear would be a waste against Khelt.”

“Smart? But what if—”

Mars charged left, covering Flos’ flank as Gazi ran with her [King]. Flos was hammering Khelt’s [Soldiers] down with each swing, a shield in his other hand. The undead were like toys in front of his strength, but they were everywhere, and armor or not, he was surrounded. Trey watched, on pins and needles. Then he heard a shout.

Mars, the [Vanguard], one of the King’s Seven, raised a sword. It was glowing, bright yellow, enchanted with some magic. She turned as a wall of undead charged towards her [King]. Trey heard her voice even from where the carriage sat.

“[Grand Slash]!”

The undead around her disappeared. Trey didn’t see the actual swing; it was too fast. He did see body parts, and armor raining down across Khelt’s army. He gaped. Mars pivoted, charged forwards and rammed into another group of Khelt’s soldiers ahead of her.

“[Grand Slash]!”

She did it again! Another pocket just disappeared, and Reim’s army poured into the gap. Gazi was swinging her claymore around, effortlessly slicing through everything she cut, heedless of the weapons bouncing off her armor. She only protected her face as Flos kept carving forwards. And Mars wasn’t done.

“[Grand Slash], [Grand Slash]—”

Hundreds of zombies just disappeared. She was holding off an entire wing of the army on her own. Trey gaped. He’d seen Mars sparring in the training grounds, but he’d never seen this. He turned and saw even the carriage driver was gaping. The Quarass wasn’t. She looked amused.

“Have you never seen Mars the Illusionist do battle?”

“I—no! I mean, she’s fought before, but I was always busy—”

He’d seen Mars kill a [Geomancer] in battle, but she hadn’t used that Skill. She hadn’t had to. She’d just charged through everything; her armor was impenetrable as far as Trey had seen. The Quarass shook her head, indicating Mars.

“[Six-fold Grand Slash]. She may use it six times for every time a lesser [Warrior] would. This army she could destroy herself if she had time. This army is but a nuisance in front of Reim’s might, even weakened. That is not what makes Khelt deadly.”

“Then what—”

“Watch.”

Trey turned back to see Flos and his army mopping up the last of the zombies. They kept fighting, even when it was only a handful left, Trey had to admit. But they had been crushed without a single casualty on Reim’s side, as far as Trey could tell. Some were using potions, but—Trey paused.

There was a mass of bodies coming from the horizon. Past Reim’s borders, past some invisible line, the earth was stirring. Trey saw the earth erupt, undead forms tear themselves free of the soil, rising, rising—and running straight for Reim’s border. Trey looked towards Khelt and paled.

“Is that…?”

A second army, twenty thousand strong, was sprinting straight towards Reim’s borders. Only now did Trey realize that the valley was practically strewn with bodies. How long had Reim’s soldiers been fighting? Since this morning? The Quarass nodded as Flos and his soldiers reset their formation.

“Khelt’s armies are endless and undying. They are made up of every one of Khelt’s own that has ever died. The King of Destruction could fight this battle day and night and Fetohep would not cease. It looks as though four such armies have already fallen to his vassals. We will continue on before they tire.”

She clicked her fingers and the driver uneasily moved the carriage forwards. Trey gulped, but the Quarass pointed impatiently.

“Towards the undead.”

“Quarass?”

She turned her head to look at the Germinan man. Slowly, without saying a word. He flinched and moved the carriage forwards, slowly at first. The twenty thousand Kheltian [Soldiers] were coming right at them. Trey yelped and closed the carriage door. But the Quarass just leaned out of hers. She raised her voice at the mass of screaming undead charging towards them, weapons drawn—

“Fetohep. I seek an audience on behalf of Reim.”

The undead split at the last second, streaming past the carriage as the horses reared. The Quarass sat back as Trey and the driver both froze. Then the undead were gone and Flos was laughing as he led a second charge into their ranks. The Quarass looked at Trey, smiling at his white face. And then she clicked her fingers at the driver.

“Keep moving. Khelt’s capital is yet hours away. Follow the road. It is paved.”

“Yes, Quarass.”

The carriage kept moving. It passed from Reim’s dusty land into—well, more of the same. Trey expected the earth to darken, perhaps the sky to cloud over. But Khelt looked much like Reim. At least for the moment. The border was uninhabited, but nevertheless, Trey felt a chill as their carriage rolled forwards.

The Quarass closed the carriage door. She looked at Trey and calmly sat back.

“Now we are in Khelt’s lands. The King of Destruction has sent you with me to impress King Fetohep.”

“I don’t think I can. I’m not impressive! I don’t know why Flos wanted me to come!”

Trey clutched at his stomach. It was suddenly hurting a lot. The Quarass studied him.

“I see some reason to it. But if he has not educated you as to Khelt’s nature, I will do so. Khelt is a necrocracy, one of two remaining in this world. Perhaps one, depending on your definition of the word. They are an ancient kingdom whose borders are seldom questioned.”

“I can see why.”

The Quarass nodded.

“They are not a Shield Kingdom. Germina is older. Nevertheless, Khelt is powerful, as you can see. Fetohep is latest of a line of their rulers. He is six hundred years old.”

“Six hundred—”

The Quarass waved away the number as Trey’s eyes bulged.

“He is younger than me. I warn you, make no insult to his appearance. Nor to Khelt.”

“Do you think I will?”

Trey was deeply worried. The Quarass considered the question.

“By your ignorance, you may, but ignorance is different from disrespect. Fetohep will accept ignorance. But he will take offense should you malign his kingdom or people in any way. As for formalities—I will make excuses for you. Treat Fetohep with the utmost respect. You may address him as ‘King Fetohep’, or his ‘Eternal Majesty’. Again, make no comment about his appearance. Do you know how to bow?”

“Um—”

“Stand up.”

Trey did, gingerly, in the carriage. The Quarass pursued her lips.

“Show me your bow.”

He tried, but the carriage was cramped and bumpy. The Quarass still made him do it and shook her head when she saw his posture. Orthenon had begun teaching Trey and Teres how to behave properly, but Flos had insisted they had more important things to do.

“Bow to this height. Move your feet so. Back leg there. Front leg—there. Hand—”

She was exacting, but a good teacher. Another facet of her memories, Trey guessed. He had memorized the bow to her satisfaction and a few other diplomatic subtleties by the time the carriage approached Khelt’s capital. The Quarass pursed her lips, but she sighed as the carriage slowed.

“You will not offend Fetohep unduly. Now, we approach the palace. Driver, slow. Open the windows of the carriage, Trey. See Khelt.”

He did. By now, the carriage had moved into Khelt and Trey—gasped.

The dusty landscape had gone. The arid climate that he had associated with Reim for so long suddenly turned into one of greenery. There were plants, trees blooming across Khelt’s land! A forest in the desert!

And that wasn’t all. Trey saw people along the road, staring at the carriage as it rolled through their home. They passed through a village—but what a village! The buildings were carved stone, painted without signs of wear or flaking, and paved streets, without a single stone missing! The people of Khelt were dressed in fine clothing—as fine as Flos’ own [Servants], and Trey was certain they were common folk.

They stared at the carriage, a bit uneasily, but mostly with curiosity. But that wasn’t what caught Trey’s eye.

It was the health of Khelt’s people. Not one looked emaciated, or sick. In fact, among the men and women and children as the carriage passed through the first town, Trey saw something he’d failed to notice since coming from earth:

Some of Khelt’s people were a bit pudgy. As in, they had excess fat. Trey had seen fat people of course since coming to this world, but they were a rarity; most people had little excess fat, and indeed, a life without the sugar of home had helped Trey lose ten pounds already. But Khelt?

It looked rich. The streets weren’t asphalt, and not all the windows were glass, but everything was so maintained and fresh. Nothing looked old or in need of repairs. The streets were fantastically maintained. Indeed, Khelt had roads, even extending outside of the capital!

And then Trey saw the farms. The carriage passed by a river and Trey saw a vast field, as large as any from his world. Plants were in full bloom—some wheat-type plant by the look of it, but more reddish. They were being harvested. And Trey felt a chill as he saw the thin, bony figures in the fields, wielding scythes. He leaned back from the window.

“Undead.”

They were tilling the fields. Skeletons, hundreds of them, carrying baskets, harvesting the crops. And they weren’t the only ones. Trey saw a skeletal horse pulling a plough, and then more skeletons, sowing the ground. Watering it. Working tirelessly. They didn’t even glance up as the carriage rolled on past.

The horses caught scent of the undead and became skittish. The driver tried to calm them, but his eyes were as wide as Trey’s. Both of them looked to the Quarass. She just shook her head.

“Move onwards.”

“They’re undead! The workers! Quarass—they’re—”

“Yes. I said Khelt was a necrocracy, did I not?”

She stared at him. Trey closed his mouth and gulped. Then he looked back at the fields. He was scared at first. But then, as the carriage kept moving and the horses grew used to the scent, he became fascinated.

The undead were so—mechanical! They moved tirelessly, their arms never slowing. They were efficient too—the fields were vast enough to trouble a combine tractor or whatever farmers used in Trey’s world, but there were enough undead to handle it! And there were fields upon fields! Not just undead sowing to crops either; Trey saw one group planting trees while another team felled a tree. They were quarrying stone, replacing broken stones in the road, harvesting—

“It’s so efficient. Why doesn’t everyone do this?”

The Quarass looked highly amused as Trey looked around. And intrigued; Trey saw that while his fear had faded, the Germinan driver was still shuddering each time a skeleton passed by the carriage. The Quarass replied calmly, staring at a team of skeletons marching down the road.

“Because the undead crave death. Khelt holds theirs by their [King]; but other undead may well seize control of them. [Necromancers] have implemented systems such as these before. But Khelt is one of the few places where such practices endure. People fear death magic, sometimes rightly. Accidents can turn into catastrophe if the undead are loosed. Many still remember the Necromancer, Az’kerash. He tried to make the same on his land of Terandria, until he was named monster.”

“But—”

Trey’s objections trailed off. He understood fearing the undead. Their eyes glowed with pale light. And for all they meekly went about their tasks, there was something unsettling about them. These weren’t toy skeletons. They were actual bone. Dead bodies. And the ghostly flames burning in their eye sockets were as distant as the Quarass’ own gaze.

Even so, Trey was impressed. And as the carriage continued into the heart of Khelt, he saw more wonders of the nation of death. Life, for one thing. Trey saw his first playground in this world; a wooden fortress, filled with swinging rope bridges, a slide—even swings! No roundabouts or monkey bars, but a playground nonetheless! There were children playing on it, laughing and stopping to stare at the carriage Trey rode in. They pointed, and then waved at him and the Quarass. Some were barely younger than her!

“That’s a playground! From my world! I’ve never seen one here!”

“No. In other nations, children are apprenticed at their age. Or they help their families. In Khelt, they do not.”

“Where are their parents?”

The Quarass shrugged.

“Attending to their work or pleasures. The children are safe.”

“But if one falls—”

The Quarass looked at Trey reprovingly.

“Trey Atwood, you are no fool. The children are safer than we. If they but scream, they will be protected, their injuries bandaged. This is Khelt. And Fetohep’s reach touches all of his land. His people are buried everywhere.”

She pointed at the soil. Trey saw the driver shudder and felt another chill himself. But the playground called to Trey. The laughing children. He stared at it until it was gone.

And then they came to the capital, and Trey saw the stone facades rising from the earth, the green dancing amid the shadows cast by overhanging buildings. There were walls, but only to block the sand. The capital of Khelt had no fortifications like Reim or every other city Trey had seen. He passed by a carved image of a [King], a proud statue of a man. Then one of a [Queen]. Then a series of sculptures, each one of a member of royalty.

They stood, lining the entrance to the city, staring down at Trey and the Quarass. Past them was a city that would have fit into an older European town. And it would have been a tourist destination too; the buildings were tall, beautifully kept, made in an art style that Trey couldn’t place, but reminded him of…he paused.

Venetian architecture? Maybe, a bit, if you mixed it in with Beaux-Arts, and a bit of the Tudor revival elements and some experimental modernistic work here and there. That was what Trey would have concluded if he’d had the architectural knowhow to describe the buildings. It was varied, and much was made of stone; the people of Khelt had no need to worry about the cost of manpower when it had come to building their homes.

And they had forever to improve on them. Trey looked up and saw a new style of art as he passed through the exterior of the city into the true heart. And he realized.

Oh. The architecture was Kheltian. And it swept over him, a city designed to provide shade in the sun, but also filter the light, so that each building seemed towering and inviting by turns. Here, the stern facades said. Step here, beckoned some entrances. Here, the city whispered.

Here we are eternal.

The carriage rolled to a stop. Trey looked around; the Quarass was already rising from her seat. She beckoned to him.

“We will go on foot from here. Come. Hedolac, remain with the carriage. You will be directed to follow us later.”

“Yes, Quarass.”

The man’s voice was quavering. Trey looked at the Quarass. There was such a hush in the air. He didn’t know why. Then he realized he hadn’t seen a single soul since entering the city. The girl raised an eyebrow as he stumbled out of the carriage. His legs hurt from not carrying him for so long.

“Um—where is everyone?”

“Waiting, I have no doubt. Fetohep knows we are coming. You will follow me, Trey Atwood. Remember what I have said to you.”

“I will. I mean—what do I do?”

“Speak naturally. Speak honestly. Fetohep enjoys new guests, for all he rarely welcomes them. Remember—”

“Don’t insult him. Or talk about what he looks like.”

“Yes. Now, come.”

She strode forwards. Trey followed her, glancing back at the shivering driver. The street was very broad, and very, very quiet. Ahead of them, Trey could finally see the palace.

“It’s…big.”

The Quarass frowned up at it. It was indeed big. And ostentatious. Khelt’s [Architects] had spared no work on it either. She shook her head.

“I prefer Ger’s palace. Fetohep is vain. He commissioned Drevish the Architect to improve his palace last. Each ruler of Khelt does so. It’s acceptable.”

She walked forwards, and then turned to glare at Trey. He was still trying to take it in.

“It’s amazing.”

“Come.”

She snapped at him, looking irritated at his wonder. Trey started and then hurried after her. They walked past flowering trees, neatly tended to. And Trey wondered where all the people were. He was about to ask—

And then he realized he and the Quarass weren’t alone. There was a sound in the air. Faint, but growing louder. Murmuring. The inescapable rustle of people. A crowd. Trey looked around—

And then they reached a grand plaza in front of the palace. The buildings fell away, and Trey saw Khelt’s people. They filled the vast space, an endless sea of faces, staring at him and the Quarass. He froze. She did not. She kept walking, and Trey saw Khelt’s people.

And its army. At first, they blended with the people. But then they were easily visible, for their stillness.

The dead. Rank upon rank of undead soldiers, standing in perfect formation. Their eyes burned as they stood, forming a double line down the street on either side, in front of Khelt’s people. Trey saw the people kept back from the undead, but without any real fear; they were watching Trey and Quarass with interest. Wariness.

But the undead stared straight ahead, their gazes level. They formed ranks in front of the steps leading up to the palace; these soldiers were all wearing burnished armor, not rusted weapons and ragged bits and pieces. They were also freshly dead, their corpses emaciated, but not yet worn away.

There they stood. And the Quarass stopped, looking down the long hallway of undead bodies. They formed a perfect line, straight up towards the palace. A single figure stood there, shadowed by his citadel. Trey couldn’t see him, but as he hurried after the Quarass, the figure raised a distant hand. And the silence, the rustling of so many bodies, broke.

“Germina.”

The whisper came from the voices of Khelt’s citizens. Hundreds of thousands of voices, from each side, whispering a word. Trey nearly jumped into the Quarass. She looked around her. The figure, distant Fetohep, pointed. And living beings, a small rank of men and women with horns, raised them to their lips around the plaza and blew.

A wailing sound echoed the plaza, as if screaming some word in another language. The sound first terrified, but it picked up in volume and tone, growing louder. Triumphant. The [King], standing upon his palace’s steps raised his hand, palm up. Again, the whisper burst forth. Louder.

“Guardian of Chandrar. Shield Kingdom.”

It wasn’t for him. It was for the Quarass. The girl stood, staring up at the [King]. She was so short the crowd couldn’t even see her past the line of undead [Soldiers]. But then—they bowed.

As one, the undead warriors of Khelt drew their blades. They lifted their swords as they knelt, emaciated flesh and bone kneeling in the street. They bowed their heads. And King Fetohep pointed at her.

“Quarass!”

The word was a shout. And it was jubilant, expectant. Not a threat. Trey saw the [King] lower his hand. And he bowed to her, the girl staring up at him. Surprised. The Quarass had seen a lifetime of glories. But the girl had not. And she turned her head as the people of Khelt bowed with their [King]. He raised his head after a moment and they shouted his name.

“Fetohep!”

And then there was silence. The Quarass looked back at Trey and he saw the hesitation in her eyes. But then she straightened her back.

“Walk with me.”

They moved forwards, through the ranks of kneeling undead. Trey felt lightheaded. Terrified. He stared up at the distant figure, standing in the shadows.

He didn’t even feel himself moving. He only knew he’d suddenly stopped. He’d crossed the plaza; now he and the Quarass looked up at the [King] of Khelt. He was still—Trey squinted. Then he heard Fetohep’s voice. It echoed from the palace steps, clearly audible throughout the plaza.

“Few guests bear welcome in Khelt. Fewer still worthy of respect. One stands before us today. We are Fetohep, [King] of Khelt. We greet the Quarass, may she live forever. The Shield Kingdoms have ever been allies of Khelt. And memory is the shield against folly.”

He pointed again, down at the Quarass. And his voice echoed, his eyes flashed. Burning lights in his…skull. A mouth moved. But—Trey’s eyes widened.

“Tell us, Quarass of Germina! Do the Shield Kingdoms yet stand?”

She called up towards him, a girl, unafraid. A ruler herself.

“Germina still remains. Forever we watch the skies. A shield still holds Chandrar’s sand! Does Khelt stand ready to heed our call?”

Fetohep nodded. Slowly, he descended the stairs. Coming into the light. Trey stared at Fetohep. He should have expected it. The Quarass didn’t blink as Fetohep’s burning, golden gaze found hers. His sockets blazed with a magical light. He spoke slowly. His mouth opened, but no tongue shaped the words.

“Khelt remembers, and Khelt honors the Shield Kingdoms. Nevermore shall our foes set foot upon these sands. So we greet the Quarass of Germina. Dragonbane.”

The word made Trey jerk. He looked at the Quarass. She turned her head. And one of her eyes caught his. And he put the pieces together.

Shield Kingdoms. And Khelt. A necrocracy. Fetohep spoke.

“The Shield Kingdoms stand; let Dragons beware!”

He bowed again. Slightly. The Quarass bowed back. Trey bowed deeply. He heard her mutter as she rose.

“An old greeting. He is one of the few who would remember it.”

And then Fetohep was descending. He looked at Trey. At the Quarass. And he smiled. But then—he was always smiling. His skin was dark. Leathery. Well-preserved, though time and the lack of moisture had worn away at him. He wore rich clothes, which sparkled as they caught the light. Fine silk. And he had a regal manner. The flames that burned in his eyes were like the ones Trey had seen in the other skeleton’s sockets, but more alive. Aware. Trey looked at King Fetohep.

He was most definitely dead.





6.55 K


Fetohep of Khelt stood on the steps of his palace, looking down at Trey and the Quarass. He was dead. His skin mummified. His sockets were sunken, his lips and nose worn away. But his face was not empty, like that of a cadaver.

His eyes burned. Like the ghostly flames that stared out of an undead skeleton’s eye sockets. But Fetohep’s were golden. And they had an intelligence to them, an awareness and personality that Trey had never seen in the undead.

The [King] was dressed in long, flowing robes made of silk. As he raised one arm, the cloth caught the sun. His people, the citizens of Khelt, bowed. The kneeling undead made no move.

“Quarass.”

It was an invitation. Trey looked at the Quarass. She dipped her head and began to ascend the stairs. Trey started. He stared up uneasily at Fetohep.

A lich. That was what he was, wasn’t he? Or—it all fit. An undying [King] for Khelt. Don’t insult his appearance, the Quarass had said. Trey swallowed his nerves and hurried up the steps after the Quarass.

She was ascending slowly. Trey matched her pace, walking next to her. She glanced at him and frowned darkly. The girl made a tsking sound. Trey paused uncertainly, but her glare went without words to explain. She kept walking and he tried to match her pace.

Fetohep’s burning gaze watched as the two approached him. He looked at Trey for the first time and the young man froze and nearly missed a step. Trey stumbled forwards and the Quarass stopped at the top of the steps.

Now they were on a level, even if she was far shorter than he, still a girl. Trey hesitated. Did he do the bow now or…?

“Quarass of Germina. We greet you again. Your death troubled us greatly.”

Fetohep’s voice made Trey jump. It came out of his mouth, not verbalized by any vocal chords or tongue. It had a subtle echo, and each word was perfectly intoned. Precise. Fetohep looked down at the Quarass. She inclined her head.

“Fetohep of Khelt. It is our pleasure to walk Khelt’s soil once more. We thank you for your welcome, on behalf of Germina and Reim.”

“Ah yes. Reim.”

The twin lights in Fetohep’s sockets flashed a bit brighter at that. He did not look once at Trey as his voice darkened.

“You speak on behalf of Flos of Reim, Quarass? He has failed to respond to my messages. Now, he sends another to bargain in his place.”

The Quarass paused.

“The King of Destruction regrets his pressing duties of state, King Fetohep. We have come—”

Fetohep interrupted her, slashing one hand abruptly. Trey was aware of all of Khelt’s citizens and the undead army, watching the exchange from afar. Sweat was beading down his back, despite the shade.

“You have come because that boy refuses to swear the oath we demand of him. And because he has no social graces. It is an insult.”

He paused, and then nodded slightly to the girl.

“Nevertheless, your presence, Quarass, we do respect. If you would speak on Flos Reimarch’s behalf, be warned. We have little patience for his folly. Yet, you yourself are still welcome. Enter by our will and avail yourself without hesitation of Khelt’s riches. You are an honored guest. And your consort?”

He gestured towards the palace behind him. Only then did his head turn and his gaze find Trey. The young man opened his mouth. And then he caught onto Fetohep’s words.

Consort? Trey stared at the Quarass. She was staring at him, narrow-eyed. Trey paused and then realized his mistake too late. He’d walked beside the Quarass coming up the stairs. That was probably—Trey paled, but the Quarass was unflinching. She looked up at Fetohep and shook her head slightly.

“Our incarnation has taken no consort as of yet, King Fetohep. This too is one of the King of Destruction’s emissaries. Trey Atwood, whom King Reimarch considers both friend and bodyguard. He is uneducated in the ways of etiquette, King Fetohep. The King of Destruction has not seen fit to instruct Trey Atwood in the ways of formality, nor does he require it. He sends Trey as an ambassador of his will. We ask your forbearance.”

“I see.”

Fetohep regarded Trey. Nervously, Trey bowed, trying to mimic every part of the elaborate greeting the Quarass had shown him.

“I am Trey Atwood, your Eternal Majesty. I greet you in the name of the King of Destruction. I am honored to walk on Khelt’s soil and beg your forbearance for my intrusion.”

Trey thought he did a good job of delivering both line and bow. He only wobbled a bit and he’d copied every part of the bow. The Quarass gave Trey a look nonetheless as he straightened. The light in Fetohep’s eyes flickered a bit; he didn’t look impressed either as he turned back to the Quarass.

“So we see. So you both come to plead Reim’s case?”

The Quarass paused. She nodded fractionally at last, but Trey sensed her caution. Not fear; just wariness.

“It is our intention to do so. Germina has allied with Reim and our fates are intertwined. We may speak for both nations and of the King of Destruction’s will, if it pleases Khelt.”

The [King] paused. Trey waited, sensing that Fetohep was making a decision about something. At last, his grinning teeth opened fractionally and he spoke.

“We believe it does. And thou art a more welcome guest than the King of Reim. I welcome thee twice, then, Quarass of Germina. And you, child.”

The Quarass relaxed a bit. So did Trey. They’d been accepted. The Quarass had mentioned that was the first step, so their greeting must have gone off well enough. Fetohep lifted his right arm, and gestured.

“We shall retire to our palace. Let us speak of matters of state there. Khelt shall withdraw from Reim’s borders. My people shall likewise disperse. Seventeen shall wait upon our presence; four to cook, thirteen to attend and serve.”

He lifted a hand. And Trey, turning, saw the sea of people move. Suddenly, the silence lifted. He heard voices, laughter, chatter—the people of Khelt stared up at him and the Quarass, pointing, but many simply streamed back into the city. The undead waited for the crowd to break up and began marching out of the plaza as well; still, thousands remained, standing silent, unmoving in front of the palace.

None of Khelt’s people paid them any mind. Indeed, they didn’t even seem to question Trey and the Quarass’ presence by and large. Some gave Trey curious looks, but it a was passing curiosity. They didn’t care. They walked unburdened, many smiling. Just smiling, as if that was a natural state of being. To Trey, it was an unnatural, unnerving thing to see on so many faces. The solemnity of the past moment was gone, and they went about their lives. Only a few walked towards the palace, as if at random.

Trey saw four young women, an older man, a woman who looked as old as the Quarass’ eyes—then he realized Fetohep was behind him and turned around hurriedly.



—-



The Quarass and Fetohep paid no mind to Khelt’s citizens. Their only regard was for each other. After Fetohep had spoken, both knew that the army on Reim’s borders had fallen back, returning to the earth. Fetohep’s words were law, and the Quarass knew his command stretched across all of Khelt.

She studied him. His was a face she knew from memory. A number of lifetimes in fact; Fetohep suited his title, the Eternal King of Khelt. Of course, she had known his predecessor, but he was one of the few beings who she regarded as kindred.

But they weren’t always allies. And indeed, this was the first time this Quarass, in this incarnation of herself, had met him. The undead [King] was studying her as much as she studied him. But for all that this was new, it was also old.

They relaxed a bit. Now informally, Fetohep nodded to the Quarass.

“Quarass, your new form is quite young. Did you wish a longer lifespan, or did some facet of this body impel you to choose it?”

The Quarass blinked up at Fetohep. Then she shook her head.

“King Fetohep, my predecessor did not have the opportunity to name a successor. I was chosen by chance, for a passing resemblance to my predecessor. I stand before you without preparation. Nor do I bear my predecessor’s dispositions. Indeed, I thank you for your greeting; the affronts I have caused you I regret.”

He paused, considering her words. Then, to the Quarass’ relief, he nodded.

“It is good that you bear little resemblance to the previous incarnation of yourself, Quarass. But I bear you no ill will; let old grudges be forgotten.”

He nodded to her and she nodded back. Neither one believed that entirely. They were old. And they didn’t forget. Still, it eased the tension.

Fetohep paused. The Quarass was aware of Trey staring at something behind him. She tried not to grind her teeth. What had Reimarch been thinking, sending him? He had no social graces! On the other hand…she saw Fetohep’s gaze flick towards Trey. He made no other motion besides that; he had no tics like adjusting his posture, or changing any expression in his face. He had abandoned all that with his life, and the stillness was unsettling if you had no experience with it.

“You did not choose your new body, Quarass. May I then extend my condolences? For a child, it is a heavy burden to bear, much less unprepared.”

He bent, looking into her face. The Quarass—disliked the sympathy. Yearned for it. Hated it. Knew his words to be true. She was young and old, and while she could remember all of her ages past—she kept her voice from trembling.

“Thank you.”

She shouldn’t have shown him weakness. She had promised the King of Destruction to bargain on his behalf, and Fetohep was an experienced negotiator. But it was too late, and perhaps it would lower his guard. Then again, he was used to her. Fetohep continued, gesturing towards the east, where Germina lay.

“You have my condolences for the situation your predecessor placed you in. How was your death?”

“Beheading. By the King of Destruction himself.”

“Ah, so I heard. But rumor often eclipses fact. I have often wondered how it feels to die and die again. My death is sometimes hazy.”

“It doesn’t grow much easier. Nevertheless, I resent the lack of preparation I have been given and Germina’s state far more than the memory of my predecessor’s death.”

The Quarass frowned darkly. Yes, the past Quarass had a lot to answer for. She’d done what she thought was best, but sometimes a Quarass was simply…an idiot. All the memories in the world couldn’t help unchecked ego or paranoia or so on. Well, sometimes it could. Dead gods, she hoped she wouldn’t be a fool. Or a drunkard. Or allergic. She hated allergies.

Fetohep was nodding, calmly studying the Quarass and then the distracted Trey. He gestured obliquely towards the young man as he looked at the Quarass.

“Has that boy coerced you into serving as a diplomat? This child seems a poor watchdog, but merely speak and he shall be removed for your stay, Quarass. If you are so forced, I will factor it into my reply.”

The Quarass smiled thinly and flicked two fingers. Fetohep was being considerate of her. But he wouldn’t shelter her or do more than offer her these small favors. That wasn’t his way. Time to play her part, then.

“Flos Reimarch would not hold Germina ransom to threaten me, Fetohep. He offered me a choice and I accepted it. We are allies, and that is no false statement. You know the King of Destruction’s nature and it is not one of deceit.”

She was sure, almost completely sure that she could trust Flos Reimarch when he proclaimed he would protect her and make Germina his ally. Whether that helped Germina or made it an even larger target was to be seen.

Fetohep accepted her reply, but her comment about Flos’ nature gave him pause. One of his ‘eyes’, the flaming lights in his sockets, flared brighter than the other. Not a wink, but more like an eyebrow rising on his withered face.

“Time changes all but we, Quarass. So then, if he has not changed unduly, he is a fool for starting his war of conquest anew.”

The Quarass bit the inside of her cheek slightly. She’d walked into that. A pithy turn of phrase she’d heard two hundred and three years ago came to her aid.

“[Fools] and [Kings] are cut of the same cloth, Fetohep. He may be both, but still, it is Khelt who has demanded the King of Destruction’s attention. Shall we not speak of such matters later?”

He paused, and nodded slowly.

“Indeed we shall. Forgive me, Quarass. Your ride was no doubt long even with Skills and I forget the needs of the body. My attendants wait upon us; let us enter my palace. You, child.”

He turned. Trey jumped; he’d finally turned around.

“Yes? Your Eternal Majesty?”

“Why does that boy send you? What worth have you to the King of Destruction? What is your class?”

Trey stuttered as he glanced sideways at the Quarass. She could only wait; either he sank and she would have to kick him down the steps to prevent him making the situation worse, or he would prove useful.

“I’m—his Majesty’s bodyguard, your, uh, Eternal Majesty? Sort of. I mean—”

The Quarass resisted the urge to slap her face and then Trey’s. Fetohep’s burning gaze flickered.

“Let us dispense with formality, Trey Atwood. You have given me cause for offense ten times over already had I wished it. Speak with barest respect and I shall not take umbrage. How came you to your post? I do not believe you serve by sheer force of martial or magical prowess.”

“Yes, um, your Majesty. I’m very sorry. I’m his—King Flos’ bodyguard, but that’s really just a title. I follow him around, do what he wants, assist him—he keeps me and my sister because we…entertain him. Well, not entertain, but…”

Trey trailed off, searching for words. The Quarass saw one of Fetohep’s eyes flare bright again.

“Ah. A companion. Strange for that boy to take such an interest. But perhaps it is the same reason you have come hence. Very well. Know this, Trey Atwood. You stand upon Khelt’s soil, and you are a guest of my palace. This is a gift offered to few in this world not of Khelt. Know that while you stay here, you are my guest. But also know that every child, man, and woman in my kingdom is under my protection. Offer any of them insult or injury, and Khelt shall turn upon you, protection of the King of Destruction or not.”

“I understand, your Majesty.”

Trey nodded palely. Fetohep regarded him silently. The Quarass could see Trey’s legs shaking a bit, but she was impressed; she’d known others to suffer incontinence when presented with Fetohep’s visage. Perhaps it was because Trey was from another world; he wasn’t as afraid as she’d hoped.

And that was a good thing. Fetohep stepped forwards, looking down at Trey. Again, the young man gulped, but made no other move. Thoughtfully, Fetohep spoke.

“I am Fetohep, child. One of Khelt’s eternal rulers. Tell me, did the King of Destruction tell you of my nature before you arrived? I see he did not. Do you fear me? I am one of the undead. And I am also [King]. Does my appearance frighten you?”

The Quarass tensed. She saw Trey look at her, which was bad. But when he turned to meet Fetohep’s gaze, he only bowed slightly, in the way she’d taught him.

“I—do a little bit, your Eternal Majesty. But your lands are very beautiful. And I—I think you’re quite regal!”

He burst out with that. The Quarass blinked. Fetohep’s burning gaze went out for a moment. Both rulers stared at Trey. After a second, Fetohep spoke.

“Interesting. I have rarely heard those words uttered in truth. Tell me, Trey Atwood. From whence do you hail? You look of Terandria, or perhaps Izril. And yet, you are no [Slave]. [Slaves] know etiquette. How camest you to Reim?”

“Well, your Majesty—”

Another look. This time Fetohep glanced at the Quarass and she spoke.

“Surely that is yet another matter for more formal discussion, Fetohep? It touches upon the King of Destruction’s return and thus, Reim’s relationship with Khelt.”

“Really?”

Fetohep’s gaze sharpened on Trey. He nodded abruptly and turned, gesturing towards his palace.

“Very well. We shall discuss the matter tonight, as we dine. Come, my palace lies open to you both.”

He gestured and began to walk slowly into the palace of Khelt. One of the wonders of the world. Maybe not on the top seven list, but certainly on the Quarass’ private list of top thirty sites. Maybe even top twenty.

The doors were thrown open and the Quarass could see black stone and a long rug, seemingly without end inviting them in. She regarded the rug. That was new. It looked like a genuine masterpiece too; at least done by a Level 40 [Weaver]. She wondered how long it was. If it was over forty feet, she’d be impressed.

Trey stared at the grand palace, his eyes going to the ornamentation on the tiles, the glowing alcoves spilling magical light out around colored glass, the sweeping scale of the hallway, and all the other things that held visitors spellbound the first hundred times they saw it. The Quarass, who’d walked these halls far more times, followed Fetohep. He was going to show off his kingdom of course.

The palace of Khelt’s capital, Edojaf, had not been worked upon by the masters of each generation, concurrently built up by the feats of genius of mortal hands. No, it was so fantastically made that it skipped most geniuses and only took from the best masters that stood out in the annals of architectural history. The fact that Drevish had been the last to work on Edojaf’s palace spoke to his skills.

The Quarass admired Drevish’s work; he’d expanded the palace, doing away with that terrible, kitschy ‘woven gold’ design and expanded the exterior of Edojaf’s place with flowing walkways, much in the same style of Wistram and Lizardfolk cities. She regretted his death; the man had been an irascible master. Trey, meanwhile, was following Fetohep as the [King] of Khelt did what he so loved to new visitors who weren’t the Quarass: show off.



—-



“Look upon my kingdom, Trey Atwood. Tell me what you see.”

“It’s…beautiful.”

Trey’s eyes widened as he stood on the balcony of the palace. It was exposed to the open air, and unlike Reim’s palace, all of this palace’s ornamentation was just that. There was not even the hint of the functional but unaesthetic murder holes, arrow slits, or any other fortifications on Edojaf’s palace. Nor, looking out across Khelt, did Trey see any in the city.

It was simply beautiful. Like a modern city of Earth, only, as Trey had noted, largely built of stone. But there was glass on some windows! And more color than any modern city; like Ger, the capital of Germina, the people of Khelt worked murals into some of their buildings. Yet while Ger did wonders with colors, Khelt had taken it to the next level.

Here was an example: someone had, over time and effort, and using the very rooftops of houses in one district of Khelt’s city, created the image of a leaping whale thing—it had four sets of flippers—breaking out of the water by coloring each rooftop. It was the kind of beautiful image that tourists would flock to, in order to marvel at the scope and effort of the work and take pictures of. And that was one work amid thousands Trey could see.

A bell tower whose bell looked as though it was made purely of glass, but for the knocker. A street that told some kind of tale in miniature—Trey saw a rearing Dragon, fleeing from—

Houses clearly made to be experimental, one circular rather than conventionally rectangular, another which was made entirely of wood—living wood! A flowering tree! Trey’s mind hurt trying to take it all in. He looked at Fetohep. The [King] was pleased.

“Yes. It is. Have you ever seen it’s like, child?”

“No.”

Trey had seen wonderful things, but not all in one place. Fetohep nodded. He cast a hand out over his city; by his side, the Quarass blinked, not impressed by the sight. She scanned the city, looking bored, and then focused on the circular house. Oh. That was new.

Fetohep was speaking to Trey. By now, Trey was almost used to staring into the dead face. Almost. He kept having to remind himself that Fetohep wasn’t a mummy, but that was all. Honestly, it wasn’t bad; Fetohep almost looked like someone wearing a really good costume. Gazi was scarier because she was clearly non-Human in a way only CGI could even try and fail to imitate.

“Of all the nations of Chandrar, nay, the world, Khelt stands among them as a rare paradise. My people are untroubled by war, famine, or other threats. Undead till the fields, and provide menial labor. They hold Khelt’s borders, ensuring peace from all but the gravest threats. Few nations can boast of such glories for all its folk; in almost every other nation, there are those who starve. Never so in Khelt.”

“I—we saw that coming into Khelt, your majesty. But how come no one else has tried it?”

Fetohep shook his head slightly.

“Few can command the undead as I do. Fewer still trust them, with reason. Other nations do make use of labor as Khelt does, but less efficiently. Illivere’s Golems are costly, and few. But Khelt’s people serve their kingdom eternally in death. As does its [King]. I know you wonder as to my nature.”

“Oh, no—”

Trey hesitated. Fetohep was staring at him.

“Yes, your majesty.”

Fetohep nodded. The [King] touched his chest with one hand and Trey saw how his hand moved. There was still skin and muscle and tendon underneath the withered hand, but emaciated. And—in places—decaying. But slowly; Trey remembered reading somewhere that in case of zombie apocalypse, it was probably a bad idea to go into freezing or arid climates; corpses would decay much slower.

Fetohep was also probably protected by magic; Trey had learned to see it under Gazi’s tutelage and Fetohep was practically blinding.

“I am a Revenant. One of the few undead possessed of the will I kept in life. I do not level. But all my Skills of old are given to me. However, I am not like base undead. Even Revenants are consumed by their grudges, their hatred of the living. I am not. In life, I swore to protect Khelt, and so I was given a second chance in death. I am Fetohep, [Undying King] of Khelt. And I hold your sovereign, Flos of Reim, in contempt.”

He seemed to say that like a challenge. Trey hesitated.

“I—I understand that’s so, your Majesty. I’ll tell King Flos that if you wish. But um, I don’t think he minds.”

Fetohep’s gaze focused on Trey for a moment and the young man held his breath. Fetohep turned abruptly, walking back into the heart of his palace.

“Of course he does not. He is a child. But it seems you are not as rigid as his [Steward] or his other Seven. Very well. Gaze upon Edojaf as long as you will. I shall await you within.”

Trey saw him walk further into the palace, and gesture to someone. A servant; the same young woman Trey had seen walking towards the palace. Aside from the Quarass, him, and Fetohep, Trey had seen no one else in the empty palace.

He glanced back at the city and then saw the Quarass walk up next to him. She glanced at Trey and whispered.

“Well done. Give him no insult. He will continue to test you. Do not belittle Flos Reimarch, but do not offend Fetohep either.”

“What am I doing? I don’t know what he wants!”

The child Quarass looked up at Trey. She shook her head impatiently.

“Wants? He wants nothing of you, Trey Atwood. Nothing but to command your respect. Fetohep is vain. Your role is to intrigue him. Mine is to negotiate. Come, let us not keep him waiting.”

They found Fetohep waiting within. The undead needed no light; he was clearly at home in the darkness, if the glowing golden lights in his eyes didn’t give that away. But he flicked a hand and the magical lights filled his hallways, giving the wrought stone and ornamentation a beautiful, soft glow.

Fetohep gestured ahead and Trey saw that six people waited for him and the Quarass, all dressed in rich clothing that befitted nobility more than servants. But servants they were as they bowed to Trey and the Quarass in perfect unison. Fetohep spoke, pointing down the branching hallway.

“I offer you two rooms where you will both sleep, and the comforts of my palace. You are guests. Whatever you desire will be fulfilled, Trey Atwood. Simply speak your will to my attendants and they will be fulfilled. Save for the comforts of flesh; Khelt has no slaves.”

He looked at Trey. The young man jumped. Did he just say anything? Save for—

“Khelt doesn’t have slaves?”

The Quarass looked up sharply. Trey bit his tongue; he’d blurted that out. Fetohep paused.

“I care nothing for citizens not of Khelt, but slavery itself is an inquietude that breeds discontent and ill practices. Slavery is banned within Khelt, for all my subjects are mine. For that reason, outsiders are banned; they spread diseases and violence. [Slaves] are a nuisance.”

“Oh.”

Trey paused. It wasn’t exactly a liberating answer. Fetohep studied him.

“Does this bother you?”

“No—I—no, I don’t like—I mean, I think keeping slaves is wrong, your Majesty.”

It might have been the wrong thing to say, but Trey had to say it. To keep saying it rather than be silent. He saw the Quarass look at him. Fetohep stared at Trey, his face unreadable. His mouth opened and the ghostly voice replied.

“I see. Have you need of rest, Quarass, Trey Atwood?”

“No.”

“No, your majesty.”

“Then we shall dine. Come; let us speak civilly before we return to the topic of your arrival.”

Fetohep swept down the corridor, and Trey followed. He could feel the servant’s eyes on him. Or—attendants. There were three men, three women. Two of the young women were very young, and one of the men. The other three were older, but they all stared at Trey and the Quarass with great interest. He could hear the two young women giggling until Fetohep turned his head; then there was complete silence.

He didn’t scare them. That was what fascinated Trey. Or rather—his subjects did fear Fetohep, but for his authority. Not because he was undead. In fact, as he led Trey and the Quarass to a dining hall and two of Khelt’s citizens swung the doors open, they surrounded him, pulling out his chair, taking his murmured orders, all without missing a beat.

Before Trey knew it, he was seated at a vast dining table. Near Fetohep and the Quarass; it wasn’t going to be some gag where he sat at the other end. The [King] was seated on a suitably impressive chair, much like a dining throne, and the Quarass and Trey on chairs no less comfortable. Trey stared at one of the attendants, a young woman, as she bowed to him. An older man was bowing to the Quarass.

“You dine on my hospitality, Trey Atwood. Speak your desire and it will be fulfilled.”

Fetohep looked at Trey. The young man blinked.

“You mean…?”

“Anything you wish, within the Skills of my [Chefs] will be made. And the talents of Khelt’s people are near limitless. Name it and it will be so.”

Name it. It was like getting having a cooking genie ask you what you wanted. Trey’s mind instantly went blank. He began to panic, staring at the Quarass, but she was unhelpfully already listing her desires to the servant, as if this was normal. And for her, it was!

“I shall have a dish of roasted eels seasoned with the most succulent vegetables of Khelt’s gardens. I care not which. Let each eel be seasoned with juice of lemons and be the youngest and most succulent plucked from Khelt’s rivers. To drink I will imbibe a glass of white juice made of grapes. Finally, I wish eight sparkling glossberries sprinkled with nali powder, served upon a bed of crushed ice.”

The attendant listened without even so much as looking for a notepad. He bowed and murmured.

“It will be done.”

Then he stepped backwards towards the doors. Fetohep, the Quarass, and the smiling young woman all stared at Trey. His mouth went dry, but his stomach rumbled. Trey wished it could provide his panicking brain with instructions.

“Name your preference, child.”

Fetohep was staring at Trey. Trey saw the Quarass looking at him, so he went for it. He wavered, searched for anything, and spoke.

“Uh—I’ll have um—a pie? A shepherd’s pie? Please?”

He saw the Quarass’ eyes narrow. Trey winced and tried not to sink down in his chair. It was the first thing he could think of. Fetohep’s gaze also looked disapproving.

“A shepherd’s pie? Elaborate, Trey Atwood. What is this dish made of?”

“Um—well, it’s a dish from home—if it’s hard to make, I could ask for—”

“Nothing is out of possibility. Describe it to me, child.”

Fetohep’s voice seemed to snap for the first time in irritation. Trey hesitated.

“Well, it’s some fried carrots, um, peas, meat—lamb meat or maybe beef—all fried up. And then you put mashed potatoes on top and bake it—”

He stopped as Fetohep held up a hand. The young woman was biting her lip, trying not to laugh.

“Ah. Traveler’s Pie. They call it so in Izril and Terandria, do they not, Quarass?”

“They did when I visited both continents.”

The Quarass murmured, giving Trey a look. He bit his lip. Fetohep’s gaze was disapproving as his tone. He looked a Trey.

“I am aware of the meal. Intriguing that the name has changed. You are aware you may ask for any dish you wish, boy? Why do you ask for a low-born dish?”

“It’s food from home. I’m sorry, your Majesty—”

Trey cut off as Fetohep shook his head. The [King] sat back, looking displeased.

“Let it be so. What do you wish to drink?”

“Um—grape juice sounds good to me as well.”

This time the flash of the eyes signaled more than just disapproval. Trey’s mind raced. He was putting his foot in it! What had the Quarass told him? He looked at her for guidance, but whatever she was mouthing at him he couldn’t understand. Desperately, he looked around.

“How about an…orange juice?”

He thought Fetohep would finally lose his temper, but to his surprise, the undead [King]’s eyes lost their intensity. He nodded to the attendant who smiled and bowed.

“It shall be done.”

She retreated like the other servant. Trey relaxed, feeling sweat run down the nape of his neck. Fetohep nodded to him, mollified for some reason.

“Ah. Oranges are a delicacy. Few places in Chandrar may grow them, let alone enough to drink.”

“Oh, if—”

The Quarass’ death-glare made Trey shut up. And suddenly, he began to see. Fetohep went on, ignoring the interruption.

“I remember them fondly still. In my century of life, I travelled to Baleros where it was served commonly among other fruit drinks. Tell me, Trey Atwood. Have you journeyed to the Baleros?”

“No, your Majesty.”

“Really? Then you are from Terandria?”

“No, your Majesty. I’ve uh, never been there either.”

“Really?”

Fetohep paused. The Quarass spoke up, smiling from her seat; she’d been given a cushion so she could sit higher at the table.

“Trey Atwood came to Chandrar recently, Fetohep. He is a stranger to this land and many others.”

“So it seems. Izril, then? Yes, Quarass. We shall discuss it later.”

Fetohep waved a hand as the Quarass began to interrupt him. He seemed annoyed, and Trey, in a flash of insight, realized that Trey’s nation of origin was beginning to bug Fetohep. The [King] went on, nodding at the Quarass.

“You order the same dish each time you first visit, Quarass. Eight lifetimes have you dined with me now, and this dish remains first. I had not the opportunity to ask your previous incarnation. Nor do I believe she would have replied truthfully. Will you tell me the reason?”

She smiled faintly. Now it was the Quarass speaking to Fetohep, Trey could relax slightly. He stared around the luxuriant room, and then focused on the Quarass. She was just as fascinating as Fetohep in her way. She lifted one hand, gesturing as she spoke to Fetohep.

“I remember both eels and glossberries were my favorite dishes in past lives. Not just delightful; they were the happiest meals and most fulfilling across any life I have ever shared. Each time I find whether my body has a taste for the meal. Sometimes it does not, but the memory compels me to seek it out each time.”

“I see. How fascinating. They must have been truly memorable meals. I myself recall the joys of my life more and more rarely with each century. But I can still recall the food I ate on some occasions. Especially dishes that stood to me of note. I recall a time I ate a Dullahan food which disgusted me vividly to this day. Are you familiar with a raw fish sliced thinly accompanied by the innards of a…I am struggling to recall the name of what I ate. A creature with spines fished from the sea.”

“A sea urchin?”

The Quarass beat Trey to it. Fetohep’s eyes brightened.

“Yes! A remarkably foul dish, or so I believed. But I became enamored with the taste and concept.”

The Quarass nodded, glancing up as she spoke thoughtfully.

“The dish originates from the islands, Fetohep. As I recall, such meals are somewhat popular among the people of Drath, Rhir, and Minos.”

“Ah. Of course. A shared heritage and geography. Such seafaring species seldom reach Khelt, but I recall Dullahan cities where I met Drathian sailors, a rarity in other ports. A shared history.”

“Indeed. A pity their trade fleets have stopped visiting Chandrar these last few centuries.”

“The changing nature of politics. What was the cause of their absence? An incident with Roshal’s Slavers?”

“Hm. Yes. I recall the moment. Neither side ever admitted guilt.”

The two rulers were speaking animatedly, of events centuries past as if they were yesterday. And they were the only ones who could do it; Trey was far out of his depth. He watched as Fetohep turned and accepted a cup. Trey saw the young woman had returned. With his orange juice. It was sweet, pulpy, and delicious. Trey’s eyes went wide; the Quarass was sipping with a smile as well.

“Is the beverage to your taste?”

“It’s—incredible!”

Trey hadn’t tasted orange juice this good or this fresh! Fetohep looked pleased.

“Khelt has its gardens and imports delicacies which are preserved.”

He took the cup he’d been given and put it to one side. Trey was drinking too greedily to ask about it, and Fetohep turned back to the Quarass.

“Allow me my indulgence, Trey Atwood. Drink; your cup shall never run empty. Quarass, while we speak of the past, may I ask if you have ever visited the Dullahan’s capital in the last few centuries?”

The Quarass looked up, sipping sedately but with clear pleasure from her cup. She smiled.

“I have. The city of Invinctel has not changed much in four hundred years since I last visited. You have walked it’s ramparts?”

“I recall it fondly. As well, the memory of that biting cold. I am glad it remains as I recall it.”

That pleased him. Fetohep leaned forwards slightly, his ‘eyes’ flashing in their sunken sockets.

“The world beyond Khelt still holds some allure, Quarass. Do you feel the same, kept as you are by Germina’s needs? I have walked each continent in turn before my demise, but I follow the events of the world with interest. More so now that Wistram has begun broadcasting events the world over. This latest incident with Tiqr was a mark of their folly, however.”

“Of a surety. But then, Wistram has fallen into decay since Zelkyr’s passing.”

Fetohep nodded.

“It would be a Drake whose vanity locked away the magics of Wistram from future generations. But then, their kind has always courted folly in arrogance. As I am sure Tiqr is a tired topic—have you followed the recent developments in Izril?”

“Are you referring to the Antinium? Oh yes. And the near war involving the siege of Liscor. An intriguing failure on both sides, Human and Drake. ”

Only Fetohep and the Quarass would call the Antinium ‘recent’ as Trey understood it. They’d been on Izril for decades! But Fetohep was shaking his head.

“One suspects that with all the issues plaguing the Drakes forces, they would take a more pragmatic approach to their ongoing conflict with the north. However, they continue to provoke a conflict—a mark of their pride, no doubt. I predict war within the decade between the Drakes and Humans, if the Antinium do not strike first. Your thoughts?”

She shrugged fractionally.

“It would be advantageous for the Antinium not to overtake Izril. I recall visiting Rhir about…five hundred and three years ago? Do you recall the mention of the Antinium then?”

“I visited scarcely before you. They were simply one more monster, as with Crelers.”

“But I recall rumors of them further back. They appeared only when the Demons were truly threatened. As when Archmage Chandler and Zelkyr marched with the Blighted King—”

“Which one?”

“…The last one. The Blighted King and Queen, then.”

“Of course. Ah, them. And that disaster. Yes, it was certainly an incident, but hardly unexpected. Rhir’s rulers forget that the Demons cannot be so easily eradicated.”

The Quarass frowned darkly.

“Nor should they be. I recall a time before them. The Creler infestations.”

Both she and Fetohep paused. Even he seemed to shudder.

“Khelt recalls such times as well. The Antinium are the latest horror, then, if the Demons are but an intermediate threat. They may have well been entrenched in the continent long before we became fully aware of their presence. I agree. Would you care to wager on the existence of the Antinium in Rhir as well as the Hives on Izril?”

The Quarass drummed one hand on the table. Trey, entranced, realized the young woman was filling his cup. He blinked as she smiled at him. The Quarass shook her head, holding up a hand as her attendant approached.

“Mix water with grape juice, half of each. I would not wager on that, Fetohep. But I would bet on war in Izril within—four years?”

She glanced sideways at Fetohep, and now her smile was slightly challenging. The [King] paused. It was his turn to sit back and regard her.

“The Antinium are restless. And yet, I think they fear a third war. A fair bet. However—would you care to wager as to the instigator within that span?”

The Quarass blinked. She looked upwards, calculating, and then flicked her fingers dismissively.

“Antinium lead the attack within four years. No, make it six. The Drakes will refrain from doing so unless the balance of the Walled Cities changes. They have lost their great [General], the Tidebreaker. They will hold back.”

Fetohep chuckled, a hollow echo.

“You underestimate their pride, Quarass. It will be Drakes who attack—the Antinium’s Grand Queen is too aware of the risks to attack herself and risk utter destruction. She will attempt to keep expanding until the Antinium are forced to war. That is my belief.”

“You are welcome to it, then. A bet?”

He nodded.

“Let us strike one. The Antinium be attacked within six years by the Drakes or some other side, or war shall not break out. If they attack—four hundred pounds of gold?”

He looked at the Quarass. Trey choked on his drink. Fetohep stared at him as the attendant, silently laughing, flew to fetch Trey a cloth. The Quarass stared at Trey and then shook her head.

“Germina lacks that in its treasury, Fetohep. Nor do I know whether my nation will stockpile gold in the future.”

“I would accept assassinations in kind, I suppose. Your kingdom will continue to produce them?”

“No child assassins.”

“Ah. Even so.”

“Mm. Four hundred pounds of Khelt’s gold against sixteen assassinations of Germina’s highest-leveled [Assassins]? Level 30 at minimum.”

“Done.”

Fetohep nodded, his eyes flashing, and the Quarass smiled. They didn’t shake hands, only sat back confidently. Trey, wiping his mouth and nose, looked at Fetohep.

“I shall enjoy collecting another bet, Quarass. Your predecessor lost twice, as I recall. A losing streak across two incarnations.”

He laughed, and the sound echoed in the banquet hall. The Quarass gave Fetohep a thin-lipped smile.

“I am not as foolish as that incarnation of myself, Fetohep.”

He waved a hand, his humor subsiding.

“Clearly not, Quarass. I ask that you pardon the insult. And I shall look forwards to the future with interest. It is good that Germina and Khelt remain so close; this luxury is a rare pleasure. If fates allow, let us converse with more regularity so long as you live in this current incarnation.”

He looked at her, and the Quarass inclined her head.

“If it is possible, I should be delighted. And I look forwards to collecting Khelt’s gold.”

Fetohep laughed again, but quieter. They didn’t speak of the bet any further. Trey glanced at the [King]. He seemed confident of winning, but what if the Quarass…Trey recalled their conversation.

Oh. If she dies, he’ll just collect it from the next one. Trey stared at the two talking lightly. There was an affinity there. And somehow, in their relationship, the Quarass was both younger and older. And it had illuminated something for Trey as well.

The way Fetohep spoke of the world, and his gestures of opulence. It wasn’t for opulence’s sake. Trey hesitated, but Fetohep had clearly written him off and aside from a few asides, he’d begun speaking only with the Quarass. It was a polite snub, but it told Trey he’d made a mistake. So he hesitated—and spoke up.

“Your Eternal Majesty? May I make a request?”

Both rulers broke off. King Fetohep glanced at Trey and the Quarass looked up warily. Trey ducked his head slightly as the undead [King] looked at him.

“I have said you are my guest. If you wish it, speak to your attendant and it will be done.”

“I understand that, your Majesty. But I would like to change my um, dinner.”

The Quarass froze. In his seat, Fetohep sat up slightly.

“You have already given your request once. Naturally, my [Chefs] will accommodate your every desire. However, have you a reason for your change of heart?”

Trey nodded, feeling his skin prickling. Fetohep was watching him. Testing him, the Quarass has said. Judging his worth. Well—he spoke, his voice only quavering a bit.

“I hate to trouble your [Chefs], your Eternal Majesty. But I feel as though I’ve offended your hospitality. If I only visit Khelt once, I should order a meal properly, shouldn’t I?”

“Hm. If that is your belief, go on. Speak.”

Fetohep gestured at the young woman, who appeared and bowed, smiling expectantly at Trey. He took a deep breath. Fetohep was watching him, as was the Quarass. He’d only get one shot. So this time Trey was ready. He opened his mouth and let fly all his fantasies from home. All the things that Flos’ [Chefs] had tried to make, but failed for lack of ingredients or simply the exorbitance of the dish.

“I’d like a slice of the shepherd’s pie, but also a bubble and squeak. That’s a dish where you add in onions, mashed potato, and mix it up with vegetables like cabbage, carrots, peas, and so on with some bacon, fry it all in oil, then make a pancake of it and brown it. I’ll have a fried egg on top, and to drink I’d like some proper tea, made with the best tea leaves—strong, with no sugar—and for desert, a treacle tart, which is a pie made with syrup and lemon and bread crumbs into a pie base. Top it with whipped cream—um, whipped heavy cream that’s sugary. Also, also—can I have a little bit of breaded fish? Fried? You put the fish in a batter, and then you fry it in oil. Please?”

It was only three dishes, but it came out like a torrent of words. The young woman blinked, and then began trying to memorize Trey’s order, her eyes flicking left and right. Fetohep stared at Trey as he stopped at last, breathing slightly faster. Even the Quarass looked slightly impressed when he was done.

“This…”

The young woman’s hesitation was clear as she glanced at Fetohep. Even Trey was worried; he’d ordered a lot, let alone for a single meal! And it sounded complex, although he was pretty sure a good [Cook] could make it all; there had just been a lot of words and vague concepts. But Fetohep just raised a hand. He looked at Trey, and the Kheltian attendant.

And he smiled. Well, he was always smiling, but Trey sensed it was genuine this time.

“Let it be so.”

The young woman bowed, and hurried off with the older servant, and the Quarass looked at Trey. She nodded and something like a smile flickered over her lips. Now, when they all sat back, Fetohep included Trey into the conversation again.

“Your requests mind me much of Terandria, Trey Atwood. Although the dishes of sugar are similar to Baleros’ tastes. Do you hail then from a coastal nation? Perhaps—no, perhaps one of Izril’s islands?”

“Er, no, your Majesty. I’m—”

Trey paused. And he looked at the Quarass and continued slowly.

“—From somewhere else. Not Reim either.”

He wanted to be helpful. The [King]’s eyes focused on his face like a laser beam.

“I see. That is interesting. Well then. At the very least, I can understand the cuisine you ordered. It is not the food of royalty, but it is a rarity in Chandrar, is it not?”

“I haven’t had any of it since I left home.”

Trey said that with feeling. Fetohep nodded, looking satisfied.

“Of course Reim lacks for fish as well as many varieties of vegetable. Chandrar suffers for want of water. Khelt does not, of course. You have witnessed the greenery of my land, Trey Atwood.”

“Yes, your Majesty! If you don’t mind me asking you, how is it possible? Reim is so dry, and I saw a forest in Khelt.”

Trey gestured towards a window. The Quarass was smiling he saw out of the corner of his eye. Fetohep’s eyes brightened. He waved a hand, and on cue, another attendant materialized, with a cup of water. Which was good; the orange juice was so sweet! This one had ice cubes in it; Trey blinked as he drank.

“Even one new to Chandrar realizes that this continent is one of sand and dust. Whilst the coastal kingdoms thrive, all those that border Zheikhal, the great desert, are dry and devoid of water. Rain falls seldom so far inland; in Zheikhal, not at all.”

Zheikhal? Trey vaguely remembered the name. Takhatres and his tribe had crossed it to do battle with the Emperor of Sands. Apparently that was what was keeping his armies from attacking Reim even now. That and Takhatres. Trey worried about him some days. Fetohep went on.

“Even on the coasts, rain may sometimes desert a nation for long stretches. Chandrar is dry, where other continents are not. A phenomenon of the weather that no one, neither [King] nor [Mage] can change forever. Thus, rulers who may generate water are necessary for life to flourish.”

“As with the Siren of Savere.”

The Quarass murmured into one cup. She was chewing on her ice, Trey realized. It was so childish, but Fetohep didn’t seem to mind. He glared at the Quarass for entirely different reasons.

“Speak not of that lawless [Bandit] among our ranks, Quarass. She holds no station I acknowledge.”

She shrugged.

“The [Bandit Queen] is one of a newer breed, Fetohep. When the world had forgotten a [Bandit Lady] could exist, her breed returned with a vengeance. She is a new concept, yes. But an old one too. I have seen their kind rule many kingdoms in times past. The Siren may be a sign of their resurgence.”

Fetohep made a disgusted noise.

“Would that Flos Reimarch had done away with that wretched nation of Savere. That he destroyed and brought low so many nations and failed to do the same to Savere is another fault I hold against him. But she can summon water. That is her value, Trey Atwood. Mine lies in the control of undead.”

He gestured towards himself. Trey nodded.

“So how…?”

“Khelt has found many ways over its existence to generate enough water. Some are artifacts. Oasis Tears for instance, are gems which produce water in limited quantities. I have enough to create a few barrels of water each hour. But as you must surely know, Khelt requires rivers of water.”

Trey nodded. Reim needed it too; it was why Flos’ ability to summon rain with the [Edict of Bloom] had been so valuable. Trey hesitated.

“Do you use magic, then, your Majesty?”

Fetohep made a chuckling sound.

“A common thought. Inexperienced rulers of Chandrar have tried the same and perished for their mistakes. It is true that [Hydromancers] are able to draw water out of the air, or create temporary liquids. But that takes from already dry land and climate. Far better to have them remove salt from seawater. Thus, Khelt imports water when necessary. But the true secret to our water lies simply in storage. Every drop of rain, and the countless oceans we have imported over centuries lies below Khelt.”

“You mean—you store it all? Enough to water Khelt for an entire year?”

Fetohep nodded calmly.

“For an entire year, or a decade. Of course, Khelt pays lavishly for [Mages] to carry water from the sea and bring rains each year, but if need be, we will simply draw from the reservoirs without fear. My kingdom is built to last forever, Trey Atwood. The reservoirs below Khelt and its stockpiles alone will feed my people if every other nation succumbs to famine and drought. I have seen two such times before. The bounties of a single [King]’s edict are a paltry thing; Khelt prepares because I remember what generations forget. Disaster and fortune are cycles which come and go without end.”

He tapped his chest once more, shifting his robes. Trey looked at him.

“Your Majesty. May I ask how Khelt came to be?”

He expected Fetohep to give him a speech, but to his surprise, the Eternal King simply shook his head.

“You already know, Trey Atwood. Or you may guess. Like Germina, Khelt has found a way to endure. All that you see now is the product of my predecessors and I. You have seen them.”

“Where—”

Trey remembered. The gates. The statues lined up, one after another. Fetohep nodded.

“Eighteen of Khelt’s rulers have come before me. I am nineteenth. And we have weathered millennia, each of us ruling for centuries, or even a thousand years. We are still young compared to the Quarass of Germina. But it pleases me that you see Khelt’s worth.”

“I do, your Majesty.”

“Good. Then you have seen Khelt’s wealth. Now see the skill of its people.”

And Trey looked up and smelled something wonderful wafting towards him. He turned—and eight attendants swept into the room, all at once. They brought all of the dishes Trey had asked for, and the Quarass’ meal. Trey gaped—it hadn’t been more than a second since he’d asked for his new order! Fetohep smiled.

“Ah. So we shall dine. Taste your food, Trey Atwood. Tell me if it is that which you desired.”

Trey’s first bite made him almost recoil in shock.

“Bloody hell—”

He looked up at Fetohep, tried to speak, swallowed, and tried again.

“It is. Thank you. How did—”

He stared at the bubble and squeak sitting next to a huge slice of shepherd’s pie. Next to it, true to every bit of his imagination was a treacle tart, complete with a blob of whipped cream. It could have come from a restaurant! But—Trey cut off a bit with a shaking fork—it was better than he’d ever tasted! But it tasted like—

“It tastes exactly like it’s from home? How did they do it?”

He was almost afraid as he stared at Fetohep. The [King] looked amused as the bowing attendants stepped back.

“My [Chefs] know the wishes of their diners through a Skill. It pleases me. They shall be rewarded for their efforts.”

Trey nodded, trying not to scarf down the familiar food. It was so nostalgic! Teres would be heartbroken she’d missed this. He wondered if he could save some for her. Across from him, the Quarass was eating more sedately, but with just as much clear enjoyment.

Even so, having Fetohep watching you eat was somewhat off-putting. The [King] seemed to realize this because now he picked up the cup he had set aside and lifted it. Trey wondered if it was empty, but he caught the sight of a ghostly liquid shifting around inside the cup. Fetohep noticed his stare.

“You dine with me, Trey Atwood, but the pleasures of food have long since been unavailable to me. I am content to sit and converse, but this discomforts the living, even among my subjects. So I shall join you in a repast.”

He lifted the cup to his…well, he didn’t really have lips. Nevertheless, Trey saw him inhale something which seemed as much gas as liquid. Like liquid nitrogen; Fetohep’s eyes flashed brighter for a moment as he lowered his cup.

“What is that, your Majesty?”

The [King] glanced up.

“A draught of magic made liquid. It is known as Ghost’s Tears in some parts of the world. A drink [Mages] occasionally consume. Or my ilk. I seldom imbibe of it. But it is enjoyable.”

“I had no idea the um—I had no idea anything was edible, your Majesty.”

“Few dishes are palatable to the undead. But such meals can be made. This drink is enough for me. Eat, and let us converse civilly.”

All three diners did just that. Trey felt like he’d passed the first test; he was able to eat and listen and talk to Fetohep and the Quarass. Indeed, he did more of the questioning; Fetohep was pleased to speak of his kingdom to Trey, who was fascinated by it.

“You can see the benefits of the undead. Food is no issue. Nor base crafts, such as bricklaying, or the maintenance of buildings, the necessity of transport. What occupies many citizens in another nation, such as Reim, is needless here. Thus, my people are free to live how they please.”

“Really? But can’t people do that in other nations, your Majesty?”

Fetohep laughed silently and the Quarass chuckled. Trey flushed, but Fetohep raised a hand as one of the aforementioned people of Khelt, the young man, filled Fetohep’s cup. He was smiling too, but hiding it.

“You confuse the illusion of free will with the freedom I describe, Trey Atwood. Yes, people of other nations are ‘free’. Free, but constrained by the needs of the body, of monetary needs, the need for security. Shelter. Not so here. Each citizen of Khelt has the freedom to choose their destiny. They need not worry for food. If they are hungry, they will be fed. If they require shelter, it will be given.”

“What. Anywhere?”

Fetohep waved a hand lazily.

“They must find the will to stay in areas where food is freely given, but yes. No one in Khelt need work if they do not desire it. That is freedom, child. Whether it is to work or to rest idly; they may do so. Some live and die, content to eat and pursue baser desires. And after their death, they serve their home forever, guardians and laborers. Most, however, choose some occupation. Indeed, I encourage it.”

“And they work?”

Nods from around the room. The attendants looked at their [King] and he sat back.

“It gives them purpose and contentment. My fifteenth predecessor, King Thekheldan, observed that his subjects had grown apathetic and quarrelsome, driven to further and further excesses without need or drive. He was the third of Khelt’s rulers and Khelt very nearly fell from rot within. Ever since, Khelt’s people have worked and few take to pure indulgence. As so.”

He gestured at the young woman serving Trey. She was his age and smiled at him as she refilled his goblet. He blushed as Fetohep spoke.

“The seventeen I called for shall dance attendance upon every need you require, Trey Atwood. They shall serve as I have need of them. However, should I require the same service tomorrow, seventeen different citizens of Khelt shall fill the role. My people work less than the laborers of other nations. Unless they themselves demand it, four out of the seven days do they fulfill their duties. Three of the rest are given to their pleasures unadorned.”

“I see. But if they don’t do most jobs—what are their classes?”

“Some administrate. Others create what undead cannot. Dresses, cuisine, toys; all things to amuse or provide. But what is mainly created in Khelt is literature and art.”

“Khelt is known for its [Historians], who write of the world. As well, it is famed for the masterpieces which are seldom sold, and adorn the collections of connoisseurs around the world.”

The Quarass explained, spearing a gleaming berry gently dusted with white powder with a fork. Fetohep nodded. Trey sat back.

“And that’s what they do? All their lives? Don’t they get bored?”

The King of Khelt sounded amused.

“Should they? They live for themselves. They seek each other out for the pleasures of the flesh. They enjoy their lives without fear of attack or starvation and so pass contented into death. Few strive for more. Why should they desire aught else? Unless—you refer to material wealth? Gold? Possessions? They do accrue that. Khelt has use for coin; some accrue it by their occupation to barter with the traders I allow into my realm on occasion. However, what many strive for as they age is the right to bear children.”

“What?”

Trey looked up sharply. Fetohep paused.

“It is not a right freely given. My people are sterile without my blessing.”

“But that’s—”

The Quarass flicked her fork. Trey felt something flick him in the side of the head and yelped. She had excellent aim! He chose his words carefully as Fetohep stared at him.

“Pardon me, your Majesty. I’m just surprised. That seems…unfair?”

He heard Fetohep sigh.

“How so, Trey Atwood? Were I to allow my citizens to reproduce freely, Khelt would overflow. Even it cannot sustain a population which grows indefinitely. The right to bear children is sacred; indeed, many are unprepared for such responsibility. It is something to work for and thus, a freedom treasured.”

“Still—”

Trey gulped down his objections. He tried to think of it from Fetohep’s perspective. Certainly it wouldn’t be good to have someone Trey’s age or younger having a baby. And yet—wasn’t it a universal right? But he knew it wasn’t the thing to debate right now, so Trey cast around for a change of topic.

“Are there any who don’t wish to enjoy themselves, your Majesty? Who seek something more?”

Fetohep tapped one finger against his cup as he lifted it. Softly, he looked at his attendant. The young man paused, flushing as his [King] regarded him. Fetohep nodded.

“Some do. They become my administrators, or the living commanders of my army. Some few hone their levels. But often, those of my people who crave more leave Khelt. It is a choice I offer all my subjects.”

“They leave?”

This time one of Fetohep’s eyes flashed. Trey was learning to understand that he communicated with his eyes more than the rest of his body.

“My people are not prisoners. They may leave Khelt at any time, Trey Atwood. With my blessing. With coin and provisions, with the [Merchants] allowed to enter my realm. No child may be taken, but any who has reached adulthood may go. The condition is simply this: they may not return.”

“Oh.”

Harsh. Fetohep read it in Trey’s face. He shook his head.

“Khelt allows few visitors past its borders each year, Trey Atwood. Some years less than a hundred. Less than ten. Most are [Merchants]. Few are diplomats such as yourself; but I have little need of them. Rarest still are those whom are allowed to stay. It is not a privilege one can toss away lightly.”

“Of course. I didn’t mean to imply that. I—who is allowed to stay? Foreigners?”

“Few. [Scholars]. [Mages], occasionally. Sometimes a half-Elf, who seeks Khelt’s eternity to remain. Each one I judge. Each one must offer Khelt something of worth to be allowed to stay. No others may enter even should they wish it, and they have come in centuries past. By the hundreds of thousands, begging for refuge, for Khelt’s protection. Whatever the reason, they never step onto Khelt’s soil.”

Silence. Trey saw the Quarass look up. She regarded him.

“You are uncomfortable with that idea too, Trey Atwood?”

Both of them were looking at him. Trey shifted.

“No. Yes. I mean—if they’re desperate—what happens to them?”

“They die.”

“Yes.”

Neither Fetohep nor the Quarass hesitated. Nor did he seem bothered by the question.

“It is not maliciousness, but necessity that forces me to ward my borders, child. Khelt cannot endure foreigners. Such people ferment rebellion. They object to Khelt’s way of life, seek to gain power, or overturn the rule of Khelt’s kings. They would destroy what Khelt is. So they are not allowed entry.”

Simple as that. The Quarass was nodding, almost approvingly. Trey looked from face to face. Fetohep went on, musing, refusing a refill of the ghostly liquid.

“The few who enter are sometimes Khelt’s children, those who have left. They bring families, children. But still, I demand worth of them. Those that leave and find the harshness of the world to come crawling back I do not allow entry.”

“But some you do.”

The Quarass interjected. Fetohep looked at her. She was smiling faintly. Trey blinked as Fetohep lifted his cup, drinking. He spoke even while drinking; it didn’t seem to interfere with his voice at all.

“They are my children. I give to Khelt’s people peace and prosperity. That is my function, Quarass. That is the reason I am [King]. What other is there?”

She looked at him. And she smiled enviously. Slowly, the child lifted her cup.

“To watch and endure. To guard Chandrar until the end of its days. Yet I fear Germina, for all its past glories, cannot match Khelt’s peace.”

Fetohep lifted his cup and inclined his head.

“A harsh task. Yours is a nation not given Khelt’s advantages, Quarass. Queen Khelta, who founded my nation, was gifted beyond any who have walked Chandrar’s sands.”

“She was the greatest [Necromancer] I have ever met. And just as great a [Queen].”

Softly, the Quarass looked back. And her eyes seemed faraway until they focused on Fetohep. Trey, listening, realized the significance of her words. Fetohep bowed slightly.

“Your words honor Khelt, Quarass.”

She only nodded. The conversation petered out for a moment and Trey realized his stomach was stuffed almost to bursting. He sat back, and then Fetohep put down his empty goblet. He regarded Trey’s mostly empty plate and the Quarass as she let her attendant take her plate away. He nodded, satisfied.

“You have enjoyed your repast. Thus, let us finally discuss matters of state.”

Trey sat up slightly. The Quarass nodded, steepling her hands together on the table. Fetohep’s head slowly turned from her to Trey.

“We spoke of the worth of Queen Khelta. Now, let us speak of that of the arrogant boy who calls himself King of Destruction. I have demanded one thing of Reim and its [King]. An oath, sworn by blood, that Flos of Reim shall not attack or imperil Khelt in any way.”

“You demanded it?”

Trey’s voice stopped the Quarass from replying. She glanced at him. So did Fetohep. The [King] nodded.

“I have sent him messengers from Khelt bearing my will. He has refused to accede. But I do not request this oath. It is a necessity. Should he continue to refuse, Khelt shall march on Reim and bring war to its people without end until his people lie dead and their [King] likewise.”

Trey stared at the [King]. They’d been talking so calmly a moment ago! But Fetohep uttered the threat as if it were suitable to an after-dinner chat. The Quarass frowned. Her eyes flicked to Trey, but she wasn’t surprised either.

“That is an act of aggression unlike Khelt, Fetohep. You have heard the King of Destruction’s oath of peace, have you not?”

“Words. I look not to empty promises, but to history, Quarass.”

Fetohep’s tone grew harsher. The flames in his eye sockets turned darker, deeper in color.

“I am all too aware of his ambitions. Once, Flos of Reim conquered almost all of Chandrar and Khelt was forced to bend knee to him. So as not to be destroyed, we paid the King of Destruction’s tribute in food and coin and our people’s lives, to fight in his armies. Khelt has done so in the past, but each instance of subservience is an affront. This time, I do not intend to give such tributes to Reim. Thus, the oath made in blood. Flos of Reim will not forswear it lightly.”



—-



The Quarass of Germina had lived for lifetimes dancing the game of politics. Sometimes with all the delicacy and grace of a feather blown upon the winds of change, other times with the crudest of methods, as need dictated. She was experienced, as skillful as any [Diplomat] purely by virtue of memory.

However, at the moment all she was thinking was ‘uh oh’. Fetohep’s eyes were blazing and his tone was beyond irate. She had forgotten that Khelt’s citizens had fought for Flos in his first war of conquest. No—she had been aware of it. He had demanded the same of Germina and the previous Quarass after all. Tributes in the form of food and arms to fuel his armies, soldiers to do battle in his name.

The only difference was the he had coerced Khelt into doing the same as Germina. And Fetohep had clearly harbored a grudge. He wouldn’t have scorned any amount of tribute, gold, or even artifacts. But his people? The Quarass looked swiftly towards Trey. The young man was pale at the threat of war. She understood that.

Then again, Fetohep’s demands weren’t terrible. Indeed, a vow of neutrality would do Reim little wrong now. It was just that it would close Khelt off from the King of Destruction’s will forever unless Flos truly forswore a blood oath with all that entailed. And the Quarass was certain that Flos wished for some of Khelt’s vast surpluses. She thought carefully and quickly and replied to the undead [King].

“King Fetohep. I understand your demands. And the King Reimarch may well accede to an oath with some remunerations. Reim hungers; you have surely heard of all those who claim loyalty to the King of Destruction returning to his lands. If Khelt would offer Reim an equal exchange in exchange for a vow of nonaggression—”

“No.”

This time the word surprised the Quarass as well as Trey. Fetohep’s gaze found the Quarass. He shook his head.

“Khelt will offer Reim nothing. It demands, Quarass. This is no negotiation.”

“King Fetohep! That is unlike Khelt. The King of Destruction will not accept a threat backed up by force of arms. War between Reim and Khelt would cost both nations!”

“And it would ultimately doom Reim. Khelt will not fall; the King of Destruction’s armies may sweep aside hundreds of thousands, but the countless dead of Khelt? And while they do, their flanks will be unguarded. It is not a war that boy can fight. He and I and you know it.”

She did. The Quarass bit her lip, her heart fluttering. She inclined her head.

“Nevertheless, Fetohep. Why utter such demands? Khelt can surely make a trade of goodwill rather than a demand that breeds enmity.”

It wasn’t what Flos Reimarch would prefer, but a concession of goods would be simple for Khelt to supply and aid Reim. Fetohep surely knew that, just as he knew how unlikely the King of Destruction was to obey a threat. Was it because he hated Flos that much that he was making this demand? No—the Quarass knew Fetohep. He would swallow pit vipers for the good of his kingdom. So why—

Then the pieces fit. Her eyes narrowed.

“You do not wish to be seen to aid Reim.”

Fetohep’s gaze flashed once. The Quarass sat back. Of course. Tiqr had fallen this morning. But Fetohep simply toyed with his cup.

“I consider Khelt’s interests, Quarass. I have no wish to pay for a demand owed to Khelt for injustices past. Nor will I enable that boy’s fruitless endeavors.”

Intriguing. Fetohep was clearly uncomfortable at admitting Khelt was leery of other nations singling it out for attack. His pride was at stake, hence his deflection. The Quarass pressed him on it.

“Fruitless? Fetohep, you recall the ambitions of Flos Reimarch were no empty promises. He united almost all of Chandrar before his slumber. His armies spanned the deserts beyond number! Other continents walked warily of Chandrar. Can you call the dreams of such a [King] fruitless?”

“Of course. How could you argue for him, Quarass?”

The Quarass hesitated. Her mind raced ahead of the argument. Trey Atwood, at his seat, looked confused.

“But your Majesty, King Flos did conquer the continent. Even if he was conquering—”

“I am not referring to that, Trey Atwood. No. I ask the Quarass: what was the point?”

Fetohep paused. He looked across at the Quarass, who was biting her lip.

“Six hundred years. Six hundred and fifty three. That is how long I have ruled Khelt. It is a long time. Long, yet short to the Quarass of Germina. Even so. Trey Atwood. Look at me. What do you see?”

He gestured to his emaciated form. Trey hesitated.

“I see—a [King]?”

“What of my flesh?”

“It’s—preserved?”

Fetohep’s eyes flashed slightly. The Quarass tensed, but they were good answers. The [King] shook his head.

“You make no mention of my appearance. Spare me flatter, Trey Atwood. Look at me. What do you see?”

A pause. Trey’s voice was quiet.

“An undead body.”

“Rotting. Fading. Slowly, by turns, but nevertheless. Flesh decays, child. You see me in my death. Now look. See my arm. The flesh which continues to rot upon my frame. Even my bones slowly turn to dust. This may be my final century; or if not this one, in two hundred years, the magics that keep me will fail and I will turn to dust. Even with all our magics, Khelt’s rulers must still fade. As all things will.”

Trey was silent. The Quarass was too. She listened as Fetohep went on.

“Nevertheless, I am ancient as other species measure time. Even half-Elves seldom live to my age. Now I hear the Quarass speak of Flos’ glories. And I say, what glories? He is but a passing memory to Khelt’s existence. What reason have I to admire what fades and burns away with the quickness of a candle’s flame?”

Ah. The Quarass saw his argument. She opened her mouth, but Fetohep fixed her with a glare. He went on, speaking to Trey. The young man couldn’t understand, but the Quarass and Fetohep did.

“I remember when the boy-king named Flos of Reim defeated Hellios’ [King] in a duel that astounded all of Chandrar. I recall when that same boy rode to war against the Order of Black Judgment and ended a system that had existed longer than I. And I recall the moment when word came that he had given up his dream of conquest and entered into a slumber. All of it passed while I remained here. It feels like yesterday. Do you understand, Trey Atwood? His kingdom rose and fell in the course of decades! You say he conquered Chandrar, that he unified a continent? Is it so today?”

Trey opened his mouth, but he didn’t reply. The Quarass cursed internally. Fetohep looked at her and shook his head.

“Your [King]’s rise and fall, you unending Quarasses, all of it is temporary. I am temporary. Why should Khelt risk itself for what will soon crumble to dust? I admit he is a [King] like no other in his generation. But how quickly they pass! Flos is but a man who comes every four hundred years. No more. Greater rulers have broken themselves upon the throne of the world in times past.”

He flicked his hand dismissively. Now the Quarass did speak. She sharply struck the table with her cup and Fetohep glanced at her.

“You dismiss Flos Reimarch too casually, Fetohep. I have lived many times your lifespan, Fetohep. And I say Flos of Reim is a man who comes every two thousand years. At most! Few rulers have united Chandrar. I see in him the ability to retake Chandrar. It may wither and pass, but have you seen another who has done so much in your lifetime?”

He had not. She had, and she saw Germina’s fate in Flos’ hands. If he rose, Germina might endure. If not—his fall would take Germina with him. Fetohep had to know that too, because he dismissed her argument with a wave of one hand.

“One cannot know the worth of a ruler until he is dead. And sometimes, not even then. I acknowledge he is a rarity. But what of it?”

He turned to Trey, away from the Quarass.

“Consider this, Trey Atwood. If Flos of Reim conquers all of Chandrar once more he may be one in two thousand years. Let us assume he has the strength to conquer the world. What of it? No matter how vast his empire, will fall apart with his passing. A [King]’s power dies with him.”

That was true, too. The Quarass clenched her hands together.

“Yet, Khelt need not be part of Reim’s fall, King Fetohep. It may observe as it has! But a threat without concession of any kind—”

The sunken sockets flashed with emerald light. The [King]’s eyes focused into a pinpoint of intensity.

“I will not give Flos Reimarch gifts, Quarass. His ambitions matter not at all to me. What will he create? What will his conquest do for the world? Nothing! He seeks to control more and more land, like a child playing with castles made out of sand. There is no point to giving him aid. Even if it were not politically inexpedient—”

He paused, tripped over by his words. The Quarass narrowed her eyes and Fetohep went on.

“—I have neither reason politically nor functionally to offer Reim support. Far from it. Khelt will destroy Reim, his remaining Seven or not. These other nations will not hesitate if my armies join battle with Reim’s. I will have his oath tomorrow or Reim’s fall will be sealed.”

“Then it is a threat Flos Reimarch will never bow to. You know his nature. You risk war, Fetohep.”

He knew that. But his pride—the Quarass gritted her teeth. It was like him to make it a philosophical argument as well as pragmatic. Fetohep snapped his fingers impatiently.

“Quarass, you know that to give Flos Reimarch any aid is to court the fate of Empress Nsiia.”

“Then do not demand an oath!”

“Should I wait until that boy is able to force Khelt’s subservience? Or trust that he will not a second time? Tell me, Quarass, how fairs independent Germina?”

From his seat, Trey inhaled. The Quarass’ small face turned hostile. He edged back in his seat.

“Germina stands to gain from its alliance with Reim, Fetohep. And his return is not without benefit. Or do you not see the life he has returned to Reim?”

“What do I care for Reim? What benefit is there in giving the King of Destruction any aid? I say it again. What does Khelt lack? Slaves? The dead are the only servants my people need, not other people with wills of their own. Gold? Metal is worthless. Food? No. Our stores are vast and my people sated. What can Flos of Reim give us?”

Fetohep’s voice thundered in the banquet room. The people of Khelt shrank back across the walls as he rose. The Quarass rose as well and Trey felt a pressure in the room. It was coming off both rulers. Where it met between them, he felt like the air was charged. He shuddered as they glared at each other.

The [King] of Khelt was the first to break away and sit once more. Not because he’d been overwhelmed; the Quarass was unsteady on her feet, pale with the effort of projecting the same force that he was giving off. He sighed as he sat and she slowly, unsteadily did the same. Pensively, Fetohep stared past her, out a window, and then spoke.

“Culture, perhaps. A world filled with sights to astound and new music and art. If he could offer Khelt that, or something of worth, I would see purpose in his transitory empire, his vision of conquest. But the King of Destruction has never brought that. Only the ruination of what exists. So. How could he ever dream of appealing to me?”

“Perhaps it is not what he seeks to build, then. But what he would shield against. Fetohep, if Reim has nothing to offer by alliance, let me make the case for Reim’s necessity to guard against what threatens us all.”

The Quarass’ hand shook a bit as she reached for a cup. She looked drained by the clash of wills. She was too young, Trey realized. Fetohep waited as she drank and some color returned to her cheeks.

“Go on, Quarass.”

She glanced at Trey. And he realized she was about to use him. Her trump card. She didn’t look confident though. She’d lost the debate, he realized. Fetohep was objecting on two levels to helping Reim and the Quarass was making a case for the latter now.

“Trey Atwood. Tell his Eternal Majesty the name of the nation from which you hail. It is he who helped awaken the King of Destruction, Fetohep. He and his sister, by sheer virtue of their encounter with him.”

“What?”

Fetohep’s head turned, the first movement of surprise in their entire conversation. He stared at Trey. The young man ducked his head, his heart beating wildly. He looked at the Quarass. Tell him everything? But her glare forced him to open his mouth.

“I—I come from England, your Majesty. A country in the United Kingdom.”

“England?”

The [King] of Khelt paused. His eyes flickered. Then he shook his head.

“No such country exists. Nor was one founded or I would know of it.”

“And yet he speaks the truth.”

The Quarass stared at Fetohep, her eyes challenging. He glanced at her and his eyes condensed, staring at Trey. He paused.

“Where is this nation located? Which continent lies closest to it?”

Trey saw the Quarass smirking from her seat. She was enjoying this. He was not. Fetohep was staring straight through him.

“Um—Europe?”

Another pause. Fetohep’s eyes flickered again.

“Impossible. Quarass, if this is some fanciful trick of falsehoods that escapes even my abilities—”

“What would I have to gain from it, Fetohep? Our relationship will doubtless exceed the span of my life. Even my predecessor would not incur your enmity so.”

The young girl calmly drank from her cup. Fetohep glanced at her.

“A continent named…?”

He paused. Trey could see his mind working, trying to parse the information that was true yet untrue at the same time. The Quarass put the pieces together softly for Fetohep.

“Another world, Fetohep. Trey Atwood and his sister hail from another world.”

The flames in Fetohep’s eye went wide and then suddenly vanished. In the silence, Trey stared at the motionless [King], and then around the room. The attendants waiting upon them stared at Trey, some purely uncomprehending. But then Fetohep moved. The flames in his sockets glowed again, brightly. He stood.

“Attendants. Speak nothing of what you have heard. Clear this room. I will speak to the Quarass and Trey Atwood. Alone.”

He rose, turning, and his people fled the room, casting glances at Trey, wondering. The Quarass rose too. She smiled slightly. But when she looked at Trey, he didn’t see complete confidence in her eyes. And as Fetohep turned, Trey saw no fear in the undead [King]’s gaze either.

Only…curiosity.



—-



The conversation was long. Trey stood before Khelt’s throne and stared up at it. It wasn’t made of bone, as one might assume, or even black stone. No, it was wrought of a pearl-like stone which shimmered and caught the light, casting ghostly echoes—as if refracting the light into a dreamy otherlight, creating ghostly illusions of the throne to the sides.

Fetohep sat on the throne, listening as Trey spoke. Sometime the Quarass would speak, but it was mainly Trey. And he spoke to both rulers. He had told the Quarass some of the things about Earth, but now he spoke the rest.

It was the same thing he had first told Flos. About Earth. About a world with technologies beyond this world’s own. Smaller perhaps, but far denser in population. Of buildings that touched the sky, men and women that walked upon the moon. A world without monsters or magic or other species.

About war. The Quarass demanded that. Trey spoke of guns, of missiles, of planes that could fly beyond any [Mage] and weapons that brought destruction to entire cities. The Quarass clearly thought that would sway Fetohep.

She was wrong.

“A weapon that may destroy a city in a single moment?”

“Yes, your Majesty.”

Fetohep stared at Trey. He looked at the young boy, and then at the Quarass.

“One that can be sent hundreds, thousands of miles at will. That may destroy a vast city at a moment. And an entire world of nations that possess a might of arms few nations of this world could ever hope to match. Weapons that reach out and touch from miles away.”

“Yes, your Majesty. It’s—”

Trey fell silent as the Quarass signaled him with one hand. She stepped forwards, smiling.

“Do you see now the peril that has woken the King of Destruction, Fetohep? Another world waits, unseen, linked to ours by some great force or magic. Should they come, will Khelt stand against such dire weapons?”

The undead [King] paused. He regarded the Quarass, and then Trey. For a moment he was uncertain, even though he had tested Trey under truth spells. But then he believed. He sat on his throne, leaned back against the ghostly material.

And laughed. The laughter caught Trey and the Quarass off-guard. It was harsh, unnatural. A dead man’s voice. Fetohep laughed and then stared down at Trey and the Quarass. And his eyes held no fear.

“A threat. I see. So the world will be plunged into uncertainty once more. Tell me, Quarass. Why should I fear another world?”

She stared up at him. She wasn’t prepared for this. The Quarass tripped over her worlds, a child again.

“Why? Because it is dangerous! Because it has the potential to overturn this world! Khelt cannot stand against such weapons!”

Fetohep dismissed her statement with a single flick of his hand.

“And what of it? Khelt will survive. Do you think the world of Trey Atwood is the first to command weapons so wretched, so depraved that no nation could stand against them? Remember, Quarass! Both your lands and mine have seen such madness and lived! In ages past, we endured the tyranny of half-Elves, Selphids. We fought the wretched Crelers when they emerged from Rhir, bent knee to passing tyrants.”

Fetohep rose and pointed down at the Quarass. She stared up at him, astonished, along with Trey.

“If this other world threatens Khelt, this land will rise up. Or bow. It matters not. Tell Flos of Reim that he will have our subservience when he proves too dangerous to resist. As last time. If he would try Khelt now…he cannot. So I will have his oath sworn in blood and deal with a second world when it threatens. Not before! Your threat is meaningless, Quarass.”

He laughed again, shortly. The Quarass stared up at him. She looked at Trey, and almost lost her balance. He stared at her.

What did they do now? Flos would have to agree to Fetohep’s demands unconditionally or go to war. Either way, he lost, and he had a lot more to lose by going to war, even if Fetohep attacked first. You couldn’t destroy Khelt like Germina. Trey imagined legions of undead, rising without end. How many could Fetohep call upon? How many lay buried in Khelt’s soil? Hundreds of thousands?

Millions?

“I respect your attempt, Quarass. Truly. You have done your utmost for Reim and thus Germina, but I am unmoved. I take this information of a second world with greatest curiosity, however. I would speak of it with you, Trey Atwood, not as a threat to my kingdom, but as a scholar would. Let us return to a more intimate setting.”

Fetohep was magnanimous in his perceived victory. He led the way out of his throne room, and his attendants appeared, escorting them to a smaller sitting room. The Quarass was silent, and Trey could see her clenching her hands, trying to think. But—she was rattled. She was young. And Trey realized she was panicking.

If she’d been older, perhaps she’d have had a chance. But Fetohep’s composure was too much for a, what, a Level 8 [Quarass]? Trey found himself sitting as Fetohep motioned.

“The delicacy. Gelato. Two bowls.”

The word made Trey look up. The attendants were smoothly coming towards them, bearing small buckets of powdered ice. And in them sat two bowls of…Trey’s eyes widened.

“As you are my guests, enjoy of it. I believe our negotiations are finished, so all that remains is to see to your hospitality. Quarass, Trey Atwood, I present to you a delicacy from Terandria. Milk-based, or so I am told. A creation of sugar. I have been importing it for my [Chefs] to create. It is called gelato—”

“Ice cream?”

Trey gasped as he tasted the frozen dairy. Fetohep broke off. The Quarass glanced up, taking her bowl with ill grace.

“You are…familiar with this treat?”

“Yes! Your Majesty, it comes from Earth! It’s a treat from my home!”

Trey was delighted. Ice cream! Vanilla, unfortunately. Fetohep stared at him.

“Ah. Then perhaps one of your own now stays in Terandria. For that is where this dish originates. It—comes from your world?”

He looked disappointed that Trey knew about it. All the enjoyment of having something unique was gone; even the servants looked disappointed. Trey glanced at the Quarass, but she was sulking as she ate from her bowl. Quickly though—she wasn’t used to sugar and clearly enjoyed it. He on the other hand—well, it was the first time he’d had it in months, but it was still vanilla.

“Well, there’s other kinds. You can flavor it, your Majesty. This is vanilla, but there’s chocolate, strawberry—any number of flavors!”

“Really? The [Merchants] who brought it to me assured me they had brought what is being served in Terandria’s palaces.”

Fetohep looked put out. Trey nodded. He saw the Quarass glance up slightly. The other attendants were listening with interest too.

“Maybe they haven’t invented it yet. Does this world have chocolate?”

“I’m unfamiliar with the word.”

Fetohep looked hesitant. Trey tried to describe it. The [King] just shook his head, bemused.

“A dark substance that is eaten so? It does not come to mind. My subjects? Inquire among the [Chefs].”

Two hurried off. Trey thought for a second.

“If it’s not chocolate, then perhaps um—cocoa beans? They’re a plant. Tropical, I think. Maybe you have it, but no one’s turned it into chocolate. Or at least, done it the way we make it in our world.”

Fetohep clicked his fingers.

“If it exists, Khelt surely keeps it. Unless it is not known as a food by any species. Tell the [Chefs] to locate such a…bean?”

“I think so. No, wait—they look like beans, but they come from a big…pod. I think. They should be dried! Or you dry them out and…”

Fetohep was nodding, and his gaze was alight with interest.

“Fascinating. So this other world of yours truly has different foods. From the dishes you ordered, I thought our worlds were too similar. But what else has your world in terms of delights to offer?”

The young man hesitated. Fetohep was genuinely interested, and that interest made the Quarass stir as well. She glanced sharply at Trey, and then cleared her throat. Fetohep glanced towards her. The Quarass spoke softly.

“Will you excuse me a moment, King Fetohep? The flaws of flesh call me.”

“Ah, of course. My attendants will show you what you require.”

Fetohep shook his head slightly. The Quarass nodded. Then she gave him a subtle look and nod that Trey couldn’t interpret. It was towards him. Fetohep paused and Trey, seeing his glance towards his face, took the cue.

“Ah, your Majesty, if you would…”

“Only naturally. Go. I will content myself until your return.”

Fetohep waved Trey and the Quarass away, almost hastily. Two attendants, smiling, showed Trey and the Quarass down a corridor towards the lavatories. They were elaborate. And there was running water! Trey did his business, embarrassed knowing that the servants were waiting outside. He hurried outside—there was no hand washing station, which made him ask for water and soap. They hurried off to get it, and the Quarass emerged from her own door. She looked around and strode towards him at once.

“We have a moment to speak. You sent away the servants?”

“I need soap and water. You, uh, wash your hands?”

“I touched nothing untoward.”

She narrowed her eyes as if Trey was accusing her of something. He bit his lip, but the Quarass shook her head. She drew him aside.

“Fetohep has few flaws. Among them, his faded memory of flesh. I insinuated that you were close to relieving yourself for lack of control of your bladder so we could speak.”

Trey flushed, but the Quarass went on. She was scanning in every direction for the attendants.

“Fetohep is not impressed by strength of arms or threats. I failed to convince him to offer Flos Reimarch something of value; he would rather use force than appear to be Reim’s ally.”

“I understood that too! What do we do?”

The Quarass frowned, tapping one lip. Trey winced.

“I will attempt to persuade him once more, but he speaks truthfully when he states that he dislikes Flos Reimarch’s war of conquest. Fetohep cares for history and your [King]’s will directly opposes his. However, he is vain. He prides Khelt upon being peerless. You observed his look when you spoke of delicacies he was not aware of?”

“Yeah. Do you think—”

The Quarass nodded.

“Do so. And Trey?”

“Yes?”

“Do you have your device? Then this is what we shall do…”



—-



“Tell me more about the threat of your world, child. And tell me of its majesties.”

Fetohep was beyond curious when Trey and the Quarass finally returned, hands washed. He had an array of nuts on offer, and Trey exclaimed in surprise when he saw a cocoa bean! He had to taste it—and then immediately make a face. It was bitter! But it tasted faintly of chocolate!

“You grind it up, your Majesty. And uh—you add sugar. I think there’s something else. Butter, perhaps?”

Trey didn’t actually remember. Fetohep immediately gave orders for his [Cooks] to experiment. Then the conversation became all about Trey’s world. The young man was soon explaining the resemblance Fetohep had to a group of rulers from his world.

“…Bandages? They dressed themselves up in bandages and golden masks? Tell me about these Pharaohs. Why did they adorn themselves so?”

“Oh, no, your Majesty. They did that when they were buried. And they had ointments—they uh, were called mummies. The process is called mummification, actually, and it was used to preserve themselves.”

“Really?”

Fetohep leaned forwards. The Quarass was eating a second bowl of ice cream as she watched them talk. Trey, mindful of what she had told him, nodded, smiling at Fetohep’s curiosity.

“That’s right. And they used coffins. They had these pyramids—well, to begin with, they lived in a nation called Egypt…”

The undead [King] nodded. He listened to depictions of the pyramids and the rule of pharaohs, only confused on one point.

“But why did they perform such elaborate rituals on their corpses if not to resurrect them? I take such measures to remain Khelt’s ruler as long as I must. But what is the point for the dead who lie buried if not to return?”

“They…thought it would preserve them into the afterlife, your Majesty. There is not magic in our world, so…”

“They could not return from death? Ah. I see.”

Fetohep’s eyes dimmed. Trey felt compelled to tell him the myth of the mummy, then. Fetohep was amused.

“So they are zombies. Well, I suppose such treatments would preserve them even longer than regular corpses. Bandages. Hm…”

He was greatly amused. The Quarass cleared her throat, waving a hand rapidly for a third helping of sugar. Her eyes were overly bright, but she still managed to play her part.

“There is some merit to thinking of Trey Atwood’s world, then, Fetohep. If not as a threat, then perhaps as an opportunity?”

“You mean, as a target of conquest? But you have no idea how this world meets with ours, Quarass. And Khelt does not conquer. It shall reap of these other cultures in time. I may wait.”

Fetohep looked amused at her insistence. The Quarass fell silent, but Trey jumped in.

“But my world does have things to offer, King Fetohep. Things your citizens might want. Maybe they’re bored of life in Khelt.”

“Bored?”

Fetohep looked offended at the very suggestion. His tone darkened as he looked at Trey. He gestured to the young woman who was waiting next to Trey.

“Tell me, my child. Do you want for anything?”

“No, your highness.”

She shook her head instantly. Fetohep nodded.

“Do you ever wish to leave Khelt?”

“No!”

She looked alarmed at the very notion. Fetohep turned back to Trey, triumphantly.

“You see? My people are beloved among all the world’s nations. They live. They flourish, safe in my borders, free of suffering or fear of monsters or attack. And they die. And it is they who guard Khelt, forevermore. The finest of entertainments, flood my nation in every variety! [Bards] come to sing tales of old! Stories abound in my libraries! What could they possibly want?”

“Um…this?”

Trey pulled out his smartphone. Fetohep paused, stared at it, and then, as Trey hit the power button, the glowing screen. He stared at Trey. The young woman stared too, entranced by the foreign, artificial light.

“…What is that?”

“A device from my world, your Eternal Majesty. It’s a phone. A smartphone. It doesn’t run on magic. It’s an artifact with many functions.”

“How is it made? How does it work?”

Fetohep peered at the screen as Trey unlocked it. His eyes focused on the apps, the words. He wasn’t a fool. He could read and Trey saw the Quarass nodding at him covertly.

“Would you like to inspect it, your Majesty?”

“Perhaps. Do you simply…touch the screen? And…”

“Yes. Like this. And uh, it has a password. You just turned it off, so if you want to use it—it’s 4467.”

“And this—”

“It has pictures. Videos. Games—”

The young woman edged over to stare at the phone, entranced. King Fetohep paused, as Trey began tapping on apps. The Quarass waited, and then yawned openly. Fetohep glanced up, distracted, and she bowed.

“My apologies, Fetohep. This body is young. And the hour is late. I must beg your forgiveness—”

She yawned again. Instantly, Fetohep rose.

“Ah. A child’s stamina. I forget youth. Let us retire then, Quarass. Your rooms await. My people shall take you to them. Trey Atwood as well. It is already—”

He paused. Trey was yawning too; it wasn’t even act after seeing the Quarass. The golden gaze went towards him and Fetohep nodded.

“Close to midnight. Yes. I feel we must adjourn.”

He looked disappointed. Trey knew it was his turn again and gestured to the iPhone that Fetohep still held.

“Um, your Majesty, you could keep my phone. I won’t need it as I sleep.”

“This?”

“Yes, your Majesty. If you’d like to use it.”

Fetohep hesitated. But then he nodded regally.

“I accept the gift. It will be returned to you as you rise. An intriguing device. Attendants. The Quarass and Trey Atwood shall slumber.”

They came forwards, bowing. The young woman who’d waited on Trey smiled mischievously as she led him to the door. She leaned over and whispered.

“Would you like me to visit you in your rooms, guest?”

“What?”

Trey jumped. That wasn’t part of the plan. The young woman cocked her head.

“It would be my pleasure.”

“Uh—”

Trey glanced back at Fetohep. The [King] looked up for a moment and the young Kheltian woman shook her head.

“It is freely given, guest. Many would like to see you. Visitors seldom come to Khelt and I would be honored to entertain a vassal of the King of Destruction.”

Social prestige. Trey turned bright red. He stammered as he backed away.

“Uh—um—I’m fine. Thank you!”

She looked disappointed and he instantly second-guessed himself. But the Quarass was giving him a look. Stick to the plan. But then the second young woman among the group smiled at him.

“Would you like me to visit you, then?”

“Or me?”

That came from the young man. Trey tried to stammer again, and Fetohep glanced upwards.

“Attendants. Leave him be. Four shall remain upon my will and that of my guests. The rest of you will disperse.”

The attendants sighed, looking disappointed. Trey fled as the young woman led him and the Quarass towards their rooms. She looked very disappointed, staring at Trey as the Quarass tried to stop yawning in front of her room. She pointed at Trey, fixing him with a glare between jaw-cracking yawns.

“I will—tomorrow—before he meets Reimarch—negotiate.”

She cursed.

“This young body! I must rest. You have done well, Trey Atwood. But he is not convinced. Pray that he wishes us to remain another day. Either way, we have done all that is possible. I will speak to you on the morrow. As for tonight—”

She gave him a meaningful look. Trey nodded and stepped into his own room. He wondered if the Quarass’ plan would work. He thought of the way the young woman had stared at the iPhone. And then he thought of Fetohep. Perhaps there was a chance. After all…

He still had Trey’s smartphone.



—-



Smartphone. Tablets. Electronic applications. Touch technology. Call it what you will, but it was a feature of the modern age. It was so easy to use that children could make use of the simple interface.

In fact, it was a known fact of Earth that a monkey could, with time, learn to use basic apps on a tablet or phone. There were even videos of them surfing through photos. Evidence of their ability to use technology in that fashion either proved that humanity had advanced their technology and simplified it to a point where even distant relatives of their species could comprehend and pick up usage of such applications—or that Humans really hadn’t come as far as they thought.

Both theories were probably true, but the point was that the same held true of this world. A Goblin child could, in thirty minutes, control an iPhone by using various motion commands like shaking it to shuffle music—a feature its owner, Laken Godart, had not made use of himself. And if Goblins could do it, anyone else could too.

A Dragon was snoozing in his cave. He woke up now and then, but he wanted to sleep. So, casually, he conjured a simulacrum, a smaller avatar to touch the tiny phone in front of him. It was constantly charged, and while he had toned down the brightness, he was by now adept at using it.

The thing about smartphones was that they were, well, dense. Each one, even the older models, could contain countless applications, constructs of data, and so on. In practice, it mattered very little on Earth where the connected web could provide virtually unlimited amounts of the same. But on earth? Each smartphone was different. Unique.

The one lying before Teriarch was Ryoka Griffin’s iPhone. A copy, rather, made by magic, but a perfect copy. And, as such, it held music, applications, and other data relevant to her interests.

Teriarch had perused all of it already. And, notably, if you looked at the row of neatly organized apps coded by alphabet—something that was missing on the iPhone Ryoka Griffin owned—an absence of a certain app was notable. Cookie Clicker, the game, had been deleted, and it was irrevocably lost without access to Earth’s internet. It was for the best. There had been…incidents.

Now however, the Dragon tapped a few times and yawned. A sound began to play from the iPhone and he magnified it. Several voices played in his cave. Talking quietly.

It wasn’t music, but the Dragon smiled sleepily. The speakers were discussing a topic, speaking with almost perfect clarity, as if they were in the room with him. He had no idea about half the topic they were discussing, even after listening to this particular podcast…fifteen times.

“Rhmbm…forklifts…keep an eye out. Can’t stand…lawyers…hrmfph…”

The Dragon muttered under his breath, going along with the flow of the conversation. He liked the background noise, and the content for that matter. It was entertainment he could get behind. Sometimes he even forgot the podcast, so it was fresh again. And the soft, calm tones of some of them…was…so…

The Dragon began to snore.



—-



Across the world, in Khelt, King Fetohep did not sleep. He could not. And rather than pass the night as he usually did, monitoring his kingdom, perhaps walking the dark halls or attending to some other lesser concerns, he was instead sitting on his throne. A lurid glow from the object he held lit up his face. It was rather unsettling, if anyone were to watch the dead face lit in the darkness.

But no one was watching. And Fetohep was absorbed in his task. Like a Goblin child, he was more than capable of figuring out most of the smartphone’s functions at once. He was perusing Trey’s photos; he had no time for games. Or rather, he’d spent two hours on one already—just to see what it was like! And now…

The withered finger paused as it came to a word that Fetohep wasn’t familiar with. He paused, and then tapped on the odd icon. Instantly, a list came up. Fetohep stared at the title. He stared at the contents of Trey’s phone.

He’d found the movies app. And what he was looking at was…Fetohep focused on a picture. No—a scene? Intrigued, he tapped on it. Instantly, there was sound. A moving figure. The [King] jumped on his throne. Then he stared.

This was no homemade movie. Nor was it some short clip either. It was Sherlock, the TV Series. And Trey had all of Series 1 and two episodes of Series 2, on his iPhone. He’d downloaded them illegally and gotten them on his iPhone so he could watch it during commutes. Of course, that had been ages ago, and Trey had since caught up on all of the series. He’d just forgotten to delete the videos.

And there they were. Fetohep stared at Episode 1 as it began playing. Trey had paused it halfway through and the [King] saw the tiny bar moving. He tapped on the screen and the scene froze. Awkwardly scrolled back to the start, watching the time code change. Tapped again. And he watched. He listened.

…After a few hours, Fetohep realized the sun was rising. He glanced up, stared down at the iPhone, and rose. It was still early, but he clapped his hands and one of his attendants instantly appeared. The weary man bowed as Fetohep looked at him.

“Attendant. Send for the child, Trey Atwood. Provide him with a Second Day Potion. I request his presence.”



—-



The Second Day potion was like liquid energy. Trey sat with Fetohep, having a proper English breakfast and talking with the [King]. He hadn’t had enough sleep, but he felt awake enough to run a race! It wasn’t nervous energy either; he was simply refreshed beyond belief. Fetohep looked just as energized. He was showing Trey the TV series and the embarrassed young man was trying to explain it.

“No, it’s a show, your majesty. An act.”

“A drama? A historical reenactment.”

“Er—no. It’s all fiction.”

“All of it? Then the people I witnessed—they are—”

Fetohep struggled for the words.

“Actors, your Majesty.”

“Actors. I know of performers, but this feels different. I have seen dramas, but the style of this is completely—and the recording! It can be watched again and again!”

The [King] savored the word. Trey nodded. Fetohep changed the iPhone—he’d already mastered it, much to Trey’s surprise—and brought up the pictures.

“This—device. These pictures! Is this indicative of your world, Trey Atwood? I see no famine in the faces here. In fact—they are well fed. Beyond so, in some cases.”

He pointed to one of the pictures on Trey’s phone. The young man hesitated. Compared to the skeletal Fetohep, it certainly was a dramatic…he nodded.

“Everyone has one, your Majesty. We watch stuff on it. All the time. And play games.”

“A powerful artifact.”

Fetohep looked flustered. Then he drew himself upright, and interjected a note of authority into his voice.

“Your world has some amenities my people lack, Trey Atwood. But know that my people may travel the breadth of my kingdom at will. Undead carriages will transport them at will, without cost.”

Trey didn’t look impressed.

“We have that. We call them cars—they don’t need horses, they just move when you press down on a lever. And uh, we have elevators too. They’re boxes that go up and down like magic. You saw them in the TV show, right?”

The undead [King] wavered.

“I…did. Yes. And the elevators? Ah, similar to flying carpets. And I have heard of Pallass’ experiments. I considered implementing some in Khelt, but the cost in mana stones was far too exorbitant.”

He paused. Trey nodded along, trying to be helpful.

“We also have escalators, your Majesty.”

“Escalators?”

“Moving floors. They’re like…”

Trey tried to explain the concept. Fetohep stared at him.

“You mean—they move you faster to your destination, which you are travelling to on foot? In fact, you may simply stand as the floor moves you to where you wish to go?”

“…Yes? I mean, you can probably sit too. Some people do.”

And the ones who stood still on the walking side deserved to die a horrible death. Now Trey was saying it out loud, it sounded a tiny bit lazy. But it was convenient! It wasn’t like they were everywhere. He squirmed, but Fetohep was just staring at Trey. At last, he opened his mouth and spoke faintly.

“That’s hedonism.”

“What? No. Not really.”

Trey blushed. Fetohep just shook his head. He looked rattled. Trey had no idea why. The [King] had to get up and pace.

“There are a people more luxuriant than my own? No. No. This device—”

He looked at one of his servants. The young woman’s eyes were locked on the glowing screen; she’d edged around to watch as Trey showed Fetohep some of the features. Trey saw Fetohep watching his subject, and the entranced look on her face. And he saw Fetohep, for the first time, looking jealous.

For a long while, Fetohep sat with Trey as he offered the iPhone to the young woman and she fumbled with it. He looked at her, and at Trey, and the young man held his breath. At last, though, Fetohep shook his head.

“The Quarass is clever. Even in the body of a child, she can be as clever as any serpent.”

“Er, yes, your Majesty?”

Trey turned beet red as Fetohep gave him a knowing look. The [King] shook his head.

“Or perhaps it is—no. Never mind. I concede her point, at least. Your world fascinates, Trey Atwood. But there is still not enough reason for Khelt to ally with Reim. Tiqr’s fate has proven that to refuse to declare the King of Destruction as an enemy is to be a target.”

He raised a hand as Trey hesitated.

“You need not reply. I know your response. I can imagine that insufferable child’s words. Yes. Khelt bows to arrogant nations in allowing their will to dictate my actions. It is an affront, but one I suffer for my kingdom.”

Fetohep shook his head. And he sat, looking distant. Old.

“Nothing is eternal, Trey Atwood. Khelt is a fragile blossom. Someday, whether under my rule or a hundred thousand years from now, it will fall, and dust will consume my kingdom. While I remain, Khelt exists. And my people endure. Until the end of my days. That is my purpose. What reason have I to risk my nation?”

He looked up expectantly then, pensive, the weight of his world upon his shoulders. Trey hesitated. He opened his mouth, raised a finger—looked down.

“I don’t know.”

King Fetohep of Khelt paused. He waited, and then made a sound like clearing his throat.

“You have no arguments?”

Trey shrugged helplessly.

“Not any good ones. I’m sorry, your Majesty. I’m not a good negotiator. I don’t know why King Flos sent me.”

“I see.”

Fetohep looked disappointed. Trey bit his lip, but he really didn’t have anything the Quarass couldn’t already say. Khelt was beautiful. All it lacked was…

Both he and Fetohep looked at the young woman who was laughing at something. The picture of Flos, as it turned out. Fetohep lifted his hand and she reluctantly gave it back. He stared at the image of Flos Reimarch.

“He has changed. At least in appearance. I remember that feckless boy of old. He was so…”

One finger touched the screen. Trey looked at Fetohep, and a burst of inspiration seized him.

“Your Majesty, would you like me to take a picture of you?”

“A picture? Of me?”

Fetohep looked surprised. But then he nodded.

“It is a rare opportunity, one you may never have again. I shall allow it.”

He straightened upon his chair as Trey lifted the iPhone. The young woman hurried out of the way, watching with anticipation. Fetohep could not know it, but he unconsciously adopted a pose much like the one Flos had taken with Teres. Straight-backed, his face still. Trey hesitated.

It could have all gone the way of Teres’ photo. But he glanced at the iPhone, at Fetohep, sitting there, and then had another flash. He looked at Fetohep; the [King] was watching him, waiting.

“What about a selfie, your Majesty?”

“A what?”

“A picture of both of us. If you’ll allow it. Like this.”

Trey edged his seat over. He ignored the ridiculousness of what he was proposing, and put his head next to Fetohep, turning it towards the camera. The undead [King] glanced at him, surprised. But Trey didn’t shudder; he was intent on the picture. The [King] glanced up and saw them together. Trey tapped the iPhone and the screen flashed.

“Not bad!”

He showed Fetohep. The undying [King] stared at it. It was an image of him and Trey. The young man had a decent smile and Fetohep had a death’s grin. He was captured there. The ruler of Khelt stared at the image.

A picture, a recording on a boy’s phone. Fetohep stared at it and saw something close to immortality. A piece of data, stored in ways he didn’t understand. A fragile thing yes, but possibly eternal. But you had to work at it, guard it. Save it and keep it, but you could theoretically let it endure forever. But it had to be maintained.

He thought of the statues of his predecessors at the gates of his city. Each one made by a master. They had portraits, books written about them. A thousand and one tributes to their name. And this? Fetohep looked at the phone and thought of a world full of them.

Slowly, he sat upright. Trey was taking a photo of the young woman as she posed, excited to be captured by it as well. He jumped at Fetohep’s soft touch on his arm. The undead [King] saw him turn. But Trey had no fear on his face, although Fetohep was long dead. He looked at the [King] and Fetohep gestured.

“Sit, Trey Atwood. The Quarass yet slumbers and my meeting with the—King of Destruction is yet hours distant. So sit. Tell me more of this great detective, boy. Are there more stories of his? Tell me of your world. More of your nations. Of—culture.”



—-



Flos Reimarch waited at Khelt’s border as the sun rose to midday. He had ridden out early, so as to be there. Even with his Skills, it was a fair ride, and so it was customary to await a meeting as the sun reached its zenith. He waited with Gazi and an entourage of a few hundred. The Serpent’s Hunters and Parasol Stroll were there, but Flos himself was not armed for war.

Gazi was. Or at least, she wore her armor and bore her claymore wherever she went. And she was the more worried of the two as they waited together on horseback. She looked up at her [King] before breaking the silence.

“You sent Mars back, my lord. Was that wise?”

Flos smiled. He stroked his beard, eyes watching Khelt’s horizon for movement. Gazi had already seen it, but it was yet indistinguishable for Flos.

“I don’t believe she will be needed. And would you be happier if Mars and Orthenon were here? Takhatres too, for that matter?”

Gazi paused and then shook her head restlessly. Two of her eyes focused ahead, tracking something. Someones.

“We can ill-afford a war with Khelt, my Lord. Even if we hold the border, he would threaten us eternally. And we cannot remove Khelt’s threat so easily. Are you certain that the Quarass and Trey will be successful? If not…”

Would you cave into Fetohep’s demands? Both knew Flos. The King of Destruction paused.

“I am not sure, Gazi. But I do not intend war. Fetohep may have his demands, but I desire Khelt as an ally. Still. Have faith!”

“In whom?”

The Quarass could not be trusted entirely. Gazi had known three, and this new one seemed no less dangerous for her youth. Flos just smiled again.

“Trey, of course.”

“What can he do?”

The half-Gazer looked highly skeptical. Flos laughed.

“Gazi, Gazi. I may be a poor ruler compared to Fetohep, at least when it comes to turning my kingdom into one of riches. I fully acknowledge it! In diplomacy, experience—perhaps many ways, Fetohep may exceed my talents. He has guided Khelt as well as any of their eternal rulers, after all. However, I believe I overtake him in a few areas.”

“Your ability to eat and drink?”

Flos snorted and nearly sprayed a mouthful of water out as he took a sip. He laughed, coughing.

“That at least! And war! But no—I mean in one other way. I do know my subjects. I have something of an eye for people, or so I like to think. Trey is a poor diplomat. But that is not why I sent him.”

“Why then?”

Flos smiled. He looked sideways, down at Gazi. She resisted the urge to look at him with all four eyes.

“Why, because you have somehow taken him as a pupil, Gazi. You, the terror of my Seven, famously aloof, even more so than Amerys and Drevish. And he worries about you when you do something as simple as jumping out a window. He is a poor diplomat, yes. But he is kind. He listens. And I think—”

He broke off. The King of Destruction had seen the trail of dust at last. He called out and urged his mount forwards. Gazi rode with him. Across Khelt’s borders, the undead soldiers of Khelt rose, forming a double line in the sand. They knelt. And Fetohep of Khelt rode through them.

He was not alone. The Quarass and Trey rode in the plain carriage behind him, while the white-faced man of Germina followed Fetohep. In his carriage, Trey was nervously chattering to Fetohep as the [King] rode alongside them.

“No, you see, your Majesty, it’s actually based on a series of books. And this is a modern adaptation. In the original series, Sherlock doesn’t have any technology like uh, well, anything you see in the modern version. However, the basic story’s the same…”

He broke off as he saw the King of Destruction ahead of them. Fetohep raised one hand, and he looked up. His tone darkened. The Quarass looked up, waiting. It was time.

“We shall continue the conversation if time permits. Driver, hold back.”

The carriage slowed. Across from him, Flos spoke.

“Hold back. Gazi, with me.”

The King of Destruction raised a hand and his forces stayed back, arraying themselves nervously at his back. Only Gazi followed Flos forwards, and then, she stopped at a remove. The carriage slowed. Fetohep and Flos rode towards each other. Slowly. Staring at each other.

One a living man, the King of Destruction. Another a corpse still preserved by magic, golden flames burning. The Eternal King of Khelt. Their horses slowed further. Flos’ stallion shook its head uneasily; Fetohep’s mount was skeletal. They drew even closer, Flos soothing his horse. And then they stared at each other.

“Fetohep. You look much the same as I recall. Your corpses are strewn across my border. Need you threaten Reim with your every petty demand?”

“Boy. Your manners have not changed since your youth.”

Fetohep’s eyes flashed. Flos smiled archly at him.

“Does sending an army across my lands count as polite conversation, then, oh Eternal King of Khelt?”

“It behooves one to reply to a message sent. King of Reim.”

“I believe my silence was enough. I will not be threatened.”

“Indeed? Then cross my borders, Flos Reimarch. Khelt is death to any who threaten it. I have not forgotten your last war of conquest. I demand assurances your second folly will not endanger my people.”

Flos pursed his lips, looking vexed.

“I took four thousand of your people, Fetohep. All of whom volunteered!”

“They were mine.”

The golden gaze flared. Behind him, Khelt’s undead shifted. Flos narrowed his eyes. Abruptly, he looked away. Fetohep shifted his gaze past Flos’ shoulder. It was easier that way.

“I wish to try again, Fetohep. I want to see a new world. To see what I cannot imagine. And to show my people that future we fought for. I will not give up so easily a second time.”

“And how will I know those are not empty words?”

“You will have to trust me.”

Laughter. It echoed from all the bodies behind Fetohep. Flos smiled too.

“Do you truly believe you could hold against my [Army of the King]? It would be my doom. But Khelt would fall with Reim.”

The laughter cut off with a snarl. Fetohep turned his head, glaring.

“Khelt will not be your subjects a second time, boy. You will assure me of this or your dream will end here.”

“And what assurity does Reim have that Khelt will not one day invade? Be reasonable, Fetohep! Offer me some compromise! Or have you only threats, oh, wise and diplomatic ruler?”

Flos spread his arms. The statement confounded Fetohep for a moment. He snapped back, beyond irate.

“What could Reim possibly possess that Khelt does not?”

For answer, Flos cupped his hands to his face.

“Teres! Forwards!”

From behind his ranks, Teres rode forwards, white-faced with nerves. Fetohep stared at her, then turned his head towards the carriage and saw Trey’s face. The resemblance was obvious. Flos laughed as he patted Teres’ shoulder.

“Teres, this is Fetohep. Fetohep, Teres is the twin sister of Trey. You know they are from another world? I have two. How many do you have?”

The undead [King]’s eyes narrowed to pinpoints. Flos let Gazi silently usher Teres back. Now the two of them sat. At last, Flos spoke.

“It is a fascinating world, isn’t it?”

“For different reasons, we agree on that at least. But you have no notion of where it lies or how these children come here.”

“Someone has created a connection. I will find it. And is it not a fair dream, to rebuild my kingdom? My people lie scattered, Fetohep. They trusted me and I abandoned them.”

“Yes.”

There was an odd sympathy in Fetohep’s gaze, mixed with contempt. Flos held it.

“Khelt is forever, Fetohep. You will have centuries and millennia to rule it. Will you not walk with me until my end? We need not be friends. But we are fellow rulers. War will break both Khelt and Reim. You are a diplomat, King Fetohep. Offer me something of worth for my vow instead of threats. Or do you fear other nations so?”

It stung him. Fetohep recoiled and then hesitated. Long he sat there, weighing. Choosing. At last, he spoke, his back straight, his gaze unbreakable.

“If they would try Khelt, let them. Khelt kneels when it must. But it does not forget its pride. Let Nerrhavia Fallen send an army ten times the size of the one that broke Tiqr. They will never take Khelt. Nor will you, King of Destruction.”

“You will have my vow. But only if Khelt and Reim are neighbors. Not hostage’s to each other’s will.”

Flos held the dead gaze. Fetohep paused. Gazi held her breath. In her carriage, the Quarass stared at his back, waiting. And Trey looked at a picture on his phone.

“Khelt’s fields will feed your subjects, Flos of Reim. Thirty thousand bushels per month for eight years. In exchange for your oath in blood to never take arms against Khelt.”

Gazi blinked. All four eyes focused on Fetohep for a moment. The Quarass exhaled in a rush and sat back. Flos’ eyes widened slightly, but the next moment he was smiling and laughing.

“To begin with, certainly! Although thirty thousand is a small number given Khelt’s bountiful fields. We shall negotiate the matter, perhaps for some other small concessions—?”

“Be silent. Appreciate your small victories, boy.”

Fetohep snapped. Flos stopped, but he was still smiling. The Eternal King leaned on his horse’s skeletal back, peeved.

“I shall watch you. And your oath I still demand. Signed in blood. The Quarass shall negotiate the terms. She at least has some grace. And your servant shall attend to me for another week.”

“What?”

“Done! Although it may not be a full week; I have need of Trey in my kingdom. But I shall arrange his visit. And Teres as well if you so desire. Although she is much like me!”

Flos laughed. Fetohep stared at Teres and she flinched. He shook his head.

“Of such thoughts nightmares trouble even the undead. Begone from my border, Flos of Reim. I tire of your face.”

He rode backwards as Flos, laughing, rode back to Teres and Gazi. Fetohep stopped by the carriage. The Quarass nodded to him, relieved, and he nodded back. He looked at the young man in the carriage. And he smiled.

A fun trivia fact. The first royal selfie in this world was of a young man from London smiling next to an undead ruler whose eyes burned gold.

“Come, Trey Atwood. Let us speak about…bandages.”





Interlude – The Titan’s Question


They called him the Titan of Baleros and not because of his tread. In truth, the man was as impressive, or at least, as short as a mouse. But say that to his face and you’d probably be dead. Say it to his [Soldiers] and they’d kick in your face. Say it to Fraerlings and you’d make an enemy of the whole damn race.

Say it to his students and you’d soon have medical needs. For Niers Astoragon’s tiny boots were those of the greatest [Strategist] in the world. Of that, his students were all agreed. And this is the tale of the question they asked. Two students, a Lizardgirl and a Human who won the right at Daquin, nearly a month past.



—-



“And the results are in! You all had a week to outfit and supply one of my smaller divisions with food, equipment, potions, and whatever intelligence and directions you saw fit! The goal was to march them nearly two hundred miles through swamp terrain upon which they’d make camp for three days before joining an attack on a nearby city! And the results are…”

Niers Astoragon stood on his podium and his class tensed. [Tacticians], [Strategists], even [Commanders] and other classes who used strategy as a tool, were all gathered in his class. It was one of his joint classes and as such, competition was high.

Nerves were even higher. The Titan of Baleros waited, flipping through his page of notes as Perorn Sadiluc, another teacher who led such classes, shifted impatiently behind him. They could not be more different. Perorn, also known as Fleethoof, was a famous [Strategist], almost as famous as Niers Astoragon. But while she spoke in a crisp, no-nonsense tone and never wasted time…

Niers raised a hand and waited for the drumroll to die down. The [Drummers], all Dullahans, filled the lecture hall with sonorous thwooms of sound, probably echoing the heartbeats of his class. Perorn stared at Niers.

“You actually brought [Drummers]? What is wrong with you, Astoragon?”

“Let me have my fun, Perorn. I get old and cranky if I don’t get to do this. Ahem!”

Now there was silence. The [Drummers] packed up and left the room as Niers cleared his throat. He eyed the papers and announced to his students.

“…Of the eighty seven of you in my advanced class that were deemed capable of the challenge, I regret to say that my prized division of fourteen thousand [Soldiers] died, starved to death, got lost, or ran afoul of some malady or issue in their terrain that caused them to delay or miss the battle completely in sixty two percent of the cases!”

“Rounded down.”

“Rounded down!”

A groan ran through the classroom. The Titan cheerfully kicked off the painstakingly written budget reports off his desk. Each student had recorded food bought, supplies paid for, and information added from their own surveillance of the region or [Informants] and so on. Some had hired guides, others, adventuring teams.

It was all a front. None of them had actually bought anything. In truth, they’d gone to an entire town that Niers had painstakingly set up with actual [Merchants], [Informants], and so on, all selling goods that his students had bought with actual gold—but didn’t actually go to this hypothetical army. Still, the challenge had been real, or unreal. Niers bellowed at the class.

“Sixty two percent failure! Am I teaching the next generation of [Commanders] and [Strategists], or the next generation of Goblin-fodder? And don’t let my bright smile fool you; anyone who has failed this lesson will be going on the exact same march with an actual company of [Soldiers], who will take pleasure, great pleasure, in making sure you don’t fail them when you’re actually responsible for their lives!”

A second groan, but louder. Niers looked at his students, savoring their dismay. It was just a bit fun to do this. Even Perorn hid a smile as Niers went on.

“You’ve all gotten arrogant. A bit prideful. You think that you’re the cream of the crop, the best [Strategists] in the world because you’re all at the top of my classes here. Well, this is an actual scenario and most of you failed it. In fact, even the third of you that passed leave much to be desired. You hear that, my starry-eyed little pupils?”

He leaned over the podium and addressed a group of students in the front of the class. They were about…twenty six or so, and instantly, their smug smiles disappeared. Niers looked at his personal class, who were actually able to lay claim to being the best of the best. He practically purred as he looked from suddenly nervous face to face.

“Did you think you all passed, hm? I’m proud to say most of you did. But ah, a fifth of you did not. Shall we start naming names? Anyone care to volunteer to have me read their report out loud? Feshi? Cameral? Yerranola?”

He addressed three students, a Gnoll, a Dullahan, and a Selphid. All three instantly ducked their heads, shaking them furiously. Niers looked about as Perorn shuffled her papers.

“No one? No one at all?”

He was waiting for the inevitable response. And lo and behold, like the sun rising each morning, a huge, furred hand shot up.

“Sir! I volunteer!”

Venaz looked around proudly. Niers raised one eyebrow as his lecture hall erupted into a single, unified sigh.

“Venaz! You seem very confident.”

The Minotaur nodded. He sat up straight, his horns polished, his posture perfect. He met Niers’ eyes without flinching.

“Of course, Professor! I calculated each step of my division’s movements! Food, supplies, guides—all were accounted for! They were prepared for anything.”

He spoke as if there could be no doubt, and there wasn’t. Niers raised one eyebrow.

“And you’re sure?”

Venaz hesitated, then nodded.

“Absolutely, Professor. I’m confident in my own abilities. I will not fall for mind games.”

His bravado was almost infectious. A few of Niers’ students, like the officers who sat apart from the [Strategists], began to look hopeful. Niers smiled. And then, like a spider who has finally ensnared his biggest fly in a web, he pounced.

“Interesting, Venaz. Because, and I’m afraid to say this, your division never made it past the first three days.”

“What?”

The word erupted from Venaz’ mouth along with a gale of laughter from above. He turned and glared upwards; a group of students were laughing their behinds off. Peki, a young Garuda from Chandrar, Merrik, a Dwarf [War Leader] from Terandria, Kelsa and Romin, two Centaur [Captains], and a group of the students from the officer class were enjoying his dismay. He turned back to Niers, looking furious and embarrassed.

“Professor, that can’t be right! I did the calculations! I’ve led soldiers before! I didn’t err—I must demand to see the math!”

“And you will! My fellow teachers and I have all gone over your budgets—checked and double checked them! We’ll be passing them out—er, someone will have to help unsort the reports I just kicked over—but if any of you have any reservations, you may argue your case!”

Niers waved at some of the other teachers. One of them, a Drake, shot Niers a look as he bent to tidy up the reports. The Fraerling went on, addressing the Minotaur.

“Unfortunately though, in your case, Venaz, the math isn’t even hard. Your company starved to death.”

“What? But I arranged more than enough supplies! I paid that [Merchant]—”

“You paid a fraud, Venaz! He was a [Swindler]! A good one! He ran off with your gold and your company got exactly nothing to march with. To be fair, we gave them thirty miles before starvation set in, but with your foraging order, it wasn’t enough. You get a few points for that, by the way, but your [Soldiers] deserted.”

The Minotaur’s jaw dropped and stayed dropped as Niers rifled through his reports. He fished Venaz’s out and tsked much to the amusement of most in the room. The sharper students were realizing that Venaz’s performance might extend to them.

“A real tragedy. I warned you all! Take this seriously. And you all swanned off to our glorious city to spend the gold you were given—a quarter of you never even managed to spend it all! It was stolen, you gave it to fraudulent [Merchants] or you were tricked into terrible deals with actual ones—a few of you never even made it out of the red-light district! And yes, we have records of it all.”

The class stared at the Titan. He casually flipped through another report. Then he looked up and he was grinning. His students had nightmares about that grin.

“Did you really think being a [Strategist] was about pure logistics? Have I taught all of you nothing? The entire town was bought out! My precious students—you can fight an army and supply it, but how will you do if you can’t manage people?”

“Wait—Professor! You mean everything that happened to us in that hellhole was scripted?”

At last, the students began reacting. Niers grinned. Merrik looked outraged. The Dwarf slammed a fist onto his desk.

“I was mugged in that town!”

“Not fatally. You fought them off, well done. But may I suggest that next time you don’t walk around with all your gold in your bag of holding? Well done on recovering it, though. Don’t worry; the [Thief] whose arm you broke was a Selphid.”

Merrik’s jaw dropped. From below, another student raised her hand and called out.

“They were all actors, Professor?”

Niers smiled at the Lizardgirl who’d spoken up.

“Every last one, Umina. Or rather, they were hired. [Prostitutes], [Merchants], [Thieves]—some of them quite high-level! I’m pleased to say that many of you navigated most of the threats well, but some of you…well, let’s just get to the analysis, shall we? And our first student is…”

Perorn snatched the reports out from under Niers and checked the name at the top of the page.

“Wil Kallinad, your report. Passed. Next! Marian Felthof. Passed! Venaz of Hammerad. Failed. Feshi Weatherfur. Passed! Yerranola—”

Niers folded his arms, a bit hurt, but Perorn’s efficiency and the other teachers beginning to call out names meant the students were soon reading their reports, most with deep dismay. Some were relieved—and yes, many from Niers’ special class. Venaz just stared at his report in a state of shock.

“He was an imposter? But he was so—so—trustworthy.”

“You idiot, Venaz. That’s how you know they’re fake!”

Marian trotted over to him and gleefully looked over his shoulder. The Minotaur began to angle his papers away from hers, but then gave up and slapped it on the desk for all to see. He folded his arms.

“He seemed military! He knew what he was talking about—he must have been truly high level!”

They all had been. Niers smiled as he watched his students debate and bicker over the results. In truth, the test had been hard. Niers had sent expert [War Merchants] used to haggling with company leaders to tear into his students and get the best deals they could. He’d also hired criminals versed in trickery and artifice to do the same.

They’d loved their roles. Niers had even hired some of the red-light district’s finest to tempt his students. You could tell who’d fallen for their wiles by the red faces. To be fair—many of them had used their charm or seduction Skills liberally, but that was a valid danger for [Strategists] to fall into. And not just because they might spend money unwisely.

“Ambushed? Oh, dead gods. My division got attacked because I—”

Merrik was groaning as he showed his report to his friends. He broke off, turning red and muttering into his beard. Peki just shook her head.

“You suck. Ha. Ha. I’m going to stay here while you march two hundred miles.”

The Garuda smiled. Merrik scowled at her.

“How the hell did you pass, Peki? I had to hold onto my bag of holding with both hands with all those damn [Thieves] about! Not to mention prying a good deal out of my [Merchant]!”

“I flew. Obviously. And I bought food from a trustworthy person.”

“How did you know they were trustworthy, Peki?”

Marian called up at the officers. Peki looked down and then leaned over her table to call down to them. Ever since the games at Daquin, the officers and strategist classes had gotten more friendly.

“I watched how they stood and talked to the others. I learned that from—”

“The Strongest of Pomle. Yeah, yeah. Dead gods, we got slaughtered. How’d you all do, you [Strategist] pricks?”

Merrik groaned. He looked down at the [Strategists]. Venaz’s head was bowed, but the rest looked fairly cheerful. Yerranola was covering her face, but most had passed.

“I could also smell some of them out as liars. I suppose I had an advantage there, yes?”

Feshi was grinning as she showed her report to the others. Wil smiled and covered his report as she glanced sideways at it. Not out of embarrassment; the [Lord] had gotten the third-highest marks out of everyone in the class and only lost points because he’d had a fourth of his gold stolen by one of the better [Pickpockets]. Umina sighed as she stared at her paper.

“I managed to pass too, Merrik. Barely. I got mugged too, so I just gave them some of my gold. Wil, how’d you do so well?”

“Uh—I’ve met [Merchants] so I had some experience with them. I could tell who wasn’t genuine. Venaz, there’s a number of signs, but you have to go through the Merchant’s Guild or some other form of verification to hold them responsible.”

“I thought I was buying directly from the source! And he had a certificate—it even tested positive at the Merchant’s Guild!”

“Fake. They can do that. You should have checked his name via the Mage’s Guild. The [Receptionist] at the desk was either blindsided or he bought her off.”

By now, the class was calming down. The students who’d failed were resigned to their fate. It wasn’t a disgrace to fail in the Titan’s academy. In fact, everyone in the class had failed at least a dozen times. It was a lesson Niers wanted to hammer into the students he was teaching: failure was inevitable. You failed, and you learned from your mistakes. They were also used to his unusual punishments, and while they were certain the march would be deeply unpleasant, it was also what they’d signed up for.

“Alright! That’s all for today, my lovely students! The losers will take part in march next week; don’t worry, you don’t have to do anything but follow our [Soldiers]! Although with that said, you might want to prepare yourselves…”

Groans followed the Titan’s statement and he smiled. Perorn was waiting by the door and the students were packing up their notes, quills, ink, parchment or for the richer ones, paper, and looking expectant. Also—a bit nervous.

“Let’s see. No homework for today. Just be prepared to discuss your reports in your individual classes tomorrow. Oh, and one last thing.”

Niers looked up. His students stared at him as one. The Professor’s eyes twinkled and Perorn sighed again. Loudly.

“Umina?”

The Lizardgirl jumped. Behind her, Wil sat up in his chair. Suddenly, the attention of all the students in the room was fixed on Umina. She stuttered.

“Y-yes, Professor?”

Niers looked at her. He could practically hear her heart beating. He held the moment, smiling, and then nodded.

“Congratulations on your passing! But please, next time remember to put your name on your report?”

She turned bright red across her scales. The class exhaled; a few laughed, but mostly everyone just sighed. Niers smiled, leapt off his desk, and strode up the Fraerling-ways, the tunnels that ran the length of his citadel and were small enough for only his kind to pass through. He called out as he reached the door built into the side of the wall.

“Class dismissed!”



—-



The students dispersed in groups. They had circles of friends, or pairs, or some were alone, but most had groups. They ordered by age, personality, and class. This particular group were made up of Niers’ special class, his best students. They were varied in species, but they were friends.

More or less. Some, like Marian and Venaz, were more like rivals, or they didn’t get along, like Xelic and Kissilt. But they stayed together because they were friends of friends. Classmates. It was a powerful bond for all the time that they’d spent together.

It was another day in the Titan’s academy in the city of Elvallian, headquarters of the Forgotten Wing Company, one of the Four Great Companies. However, it wouldn’t be forever.

Summer was coming. And with it, a certain expectancy in the air. The students were groaning about the march, but not too hard. After all, soon most would leave for a while, and while it might seem odd, these students were passionate about their work. They liked being here, and they didn’t feel like leaving. But leave they would.

The Titan of Baleros believed in vacations. He gave his students time off to visit their families or return home during the summer and winter seasons—or when the Forgotten Wing Company was engaged in the business of war. His students enjoyed the breaks too by and large; it was good to go home. But the group leaving the hall now were quiet.

Wil walked next to Feshi and Cameral, Umina trailing him with Marian walking by her side and Venaz dejectedly bringing up the rear with Yerranola. Some of the other members of the group passed them by, but the rest were just looking at Umina and Wil.

They were all getting worried because the summer break was coming up and a huge question loomed over all their heads. Or rather, two. Umina’s heart was still pounding. She’d thought it would be today. She’d thought and—

Venaz was the first to break the silence. He looked up and spoke, gesturing back to the classroom.

“You have to ask! It’s a test of courage—no, self-worth! The Professor is testing you two. He wants you to ask when it will be! Mark my words!”

“I know. But I really thought it would be today!”

Umina shook her head. Marian sighed loudly.

“He’s teasing us! You know he’ll let you ask when it’s time, Umina! Ignore Venaz.”

“When I’m right?”

Venaz was outraged. Marian turned and glared at him. But the spark wasn’t there. She looked over at Wil. The young [Lord] was shaking his head.

“Maybe Venaz is right. This is just like the Professor. Maybe we should ask.”

“You should! Everyone from our class wants to know what you’ll ask!”

That came from behind and lower down. Everyone jumped and turned to look at Merrik. He wasn’t that short—he was five feet tall which still placed him well below everyone but Umina, but Dwarves weren’t actually super short. He stroked his beard as he stopped with Peki, a Dullahan, and one of the Centaurs in his class.

“We’re all waiting for the answer to the questions! You haven’t asked already? Everyone in our class would!”

They all fell into step, arguing as they went down the corridor. Marian was shaking her head.

“You mean, Umina and Wil should demand they have their question? You want to do that to the Professor? In front of everyone?”

“It’s a test. He’s checking your willpower.”

Venaz asserted. This time Peki and even Jekilt and Kissilt were nodding. The Drake glared at Wil.

“You need to march up to him and demand it! It’s clearly what he wants.”

“Maybe. Or maybe he really is busy. You know he’s been running around every day since Daquin.”

“…True. I haven’t seen the Professor so busy in a while. Everyone wants a piece of him after the game. But even so!”

The arguing students came to an abrupt halt as they descended from the second floor to the first. They had caught up with the teachers. Perorn, a Selphid wearing a Dullahan’s body, and Niers Astoragon were all conversing with…no one?

Wait. It took most of the students a moment to realize that they were all turned and speaking to someone. Even though they were used to her presence, it took them even longer to make out Foliana, head of the Forgotten Wing Company. Three-Color Stalker, famously hard to detect and even more famously odd.

The teachers didn’t even glance up at the students; after all, they often conducted business in the citadel that pertained to the company as well as instruction. Foliana on the other hand looked up, and gave the students an unblinking stare. Her multicolored eyes stopped the group in their tracks.

“Well? Go on! Do it!”

Kissilt hissed at Wil and Umina. But everyone had stopped. Three-Color Stalker was staring at them and everyone knew her reputation. If Niers was the legend of [Strategists], Foliana was the nightmare of everyone who commanded. She’d killed thousands, it was rumored. She’d eat your favorite food and then kill you. It was her sign. Umina prayed that Foliana would never eat squid.

“He’s right there. It’s a perfect opportunity.”

Merrik muttered, but he sounded intimidated. Perorn, Niers Astoragon, and Foliana were all standing together with [Commander] Isheil. Three legends plus a distinguished commander. Venaz cleared his throat.

“I’ll—”

Even Venaz’s courage failed him for a second. The students hesitated and Wil and Umina looked at each other. They burned with the desire to ask. But now?

It was the same thing that had kept them from asking the entire month. Umina was just about to suggest they bother the Professor when he wasn’t so clearly busy talking to his superior and one of the most important people in all of Baleros, but she was interrupted. Jekilt, looking from face to face, snorted and pawed the ground.

“If you two won’t do it, I’ll do it myself. Professor! A question!”

The Centaur [Captain] trotted forwards. Everyone, the other students and even teachers, turned to watch. Niers turned his head and raised an eyebrow.

“Jekilt. How can I help you?”

His tone was mildly reproving. Foliana and Perorn both looked at the Centaur, and Perorn’s narrowed eyes made Jekilt draw up. But it was too late to turn back. Jekilt gulped.

“Professor. My deepest apologies for the interruption. However, I have to ask. When might you be available to let Umina and Wil ask their question? The one they earned at Daquin?”

Dead silence followed his question. Everyone waited, breathless. Umina even saw some of the youngest [Tacticians] poking their head out of a classroom with a teacher. Niers raised his brows, but he didn’t look amused, as if Jekilt had found him out. He glanced at Foliana and she disappeared. With a sigh, Niers turned back to Jekilt, frowning.

“I couldn’t give you a solid date, Jekilt. My schedule’s beyond full. This very night I’m meeting with donors to the Forgotten Wing Company, and tomorrow I’m due to inspect some of our company’s cities—I’ll be travelling all day, so Perorn will be instructing you all. When my schedule clears, I’ll let you know. But until then—I have business to attend to. Foliana! You better not have run off!”

“My apologies, sir.”

Flushing, Jekilt retreated. Perorn gave him another reproving look as Niers, standing on her shoulder, hurled a quill like a javelin. It stopped in midair where Foliana had been and she grudgingly reappeared.

“Oh dead gods. You really made him mad! Fleethoof too!”

Marian squeaked as Jekilt trotted back towards them. The Centaur just shook his head, too mortified for words. Umina stared at Niers as he turned back to Foliana. The Fraerling was frowning. But—she felt a tug at her side.

“Umina.”

Wil was looking at her. The Lizardgirl leaned over. He had sensed it too. The Titan had been unusually snappish. He had days like that, but he usually entertained questions. At least, intelligent questions. She hesitated and then leaned over towards him.

“Maybe he really is busy? Huh. My mistake.”

Venaz was scratching at his horns. Jekilt tried to kick him with one hoof. But Wil was looking at Umina.

“Maybe it’s worth a shot. But it would have to be…”

Umina nodded. She whispered with Wil, and then the two of them hesitated. Their classmates saw them raising their hands and quickly throw a sign. It was sword-wand-shield, or, as some other people called it, rock-parchment-knife. Or fist-palm-fingers. It was a universal game.

Wil threw sword, an open palm. Umina threw wand, her two claws pointed. Wil groaned. He turned, adjusted his clothes, and strode forwards.

This time the entire corridor was breathless. Niers looked up from his conversation a second time, a clear frown on his face. Wil paused as the teachers turned to stare at him. This time even Foliana stared.

“Yes, Wil? I’m a bit busy. Foliana, perhaps we should take this to a private room later.”

“Hm.”

The Squirrel-woman’s response was unintelligible. Niers waited, folding his arms. Wil bowed slightly, and then came out with it.

“Professor, my apologies. However, I would like to ask you a question. During the games at Daquin, we did earn the right to a question of our choosing, didn’t we?”

Niers paused. He looked at Perorn, who shook her head. He turned back to Wil with a sigh.

“You did, Wil. Your memory does not deceive you. But as I just told Jekilt, I’ve been too busy to honor the bargain. I intended it to be right after I returned, but with that emergency regarding the Hydra—this really is inopportune, Wil.”

The young man paled at the criticism. But he raised his chin. Umina saw him straighten his back and clasp his hands behind him, the picture of a young Terandrian [Lord].

“I understand that, Professor. But, and I apologize in advance, your schedule seems unusually busy even for the summer. Given that we are about to enter our summer break, I request the right to ask the question, Professor. Today.”

Silent uproar. Marian’s mouth was a silent ‘o’ of horror, and she wasn’t the only one. Perorn’s eyes flashed. She opened her mouth, but Niers cut her off. He looked at Wil, and he did not seem amused by the request.

“You want it to be today, Wil Kallinad? And that is your…request?”

Silently, Wil nodded. Niers turned his head slowly.

“And you, Umina Caxical?”

Umina turned white. Niers was staring at her and she could see it on his face. This was not acceptable. But she had to trust to the same instinct Wil had had. So she nodded.

“Yes.”

She could only croak that word. For a moment Niers paused, and Umina and Wil waited to be sentenced to some truly horrible punishment.

And then—Niers exhaled. He nudged Perorn’s cheek with one elbow. She smiled slightly and her frown disappeared.

“Told you they’d do it inside of a month.”

“Demand, not ask. Fine, you win, Perorn. Take your damn amulet. Wil, couldn’t you have been more straightforward two days later?”

Niers looked at Wil with an aggrieved expression. The young man paused. But the copper coin had dropped. Venaz exhaled hugely. Feshi stared at Niers as the Titan grinned. Jekilt was slapping his forehead with the palm of his hand.

“Was that a test, Professor?”

One of the Dullahans called out, scandalized. Niers turned his head, looking innocent.

“What? Me? Test my lovely student’s resolve? Never.”

He ignored the accusatory looks and turned back to Wil. He smiled slightly. And the pride outweighed even his amusement. He nodded to the young [Lord] and then to Umina.

“Very well. I’ll clear my schedule. My personal quarters—tonight. Sunset. Both of you be prepared with your questions. Now, I am busy—”

He dodged Perorn’s hand as she flicked at him with a finger. Foliana rolled her eyes and vanished. Laughing, Niers leapt onto Commander Isheil’s palm. He turned and the teachers, minus Foliana, turned and walked down the corridor, suddenly in good spirits. The students watched them go. And then they erupted into chaos.

“It was a test! You did it, Wil! Dead gods, I thought he was going to tear your head off!”

“Another trick? I thought I offended him! Who knew Fleethoof could act?”

“And with Three-Color Stalker? Dead gods—”

Students and teachers flooded out of the classrooms. Umina was blushing as Marian hugged her with glee. A month of waiting and it had all been another prank! He’d been so convincing, but—

Venaz was pounding Wil on the back with glee, ignoring the shouts of pain. Feshi was grinning as Peki and Merrik laughed at the entire spectacle of it. Jekilt, red-faced, was accepting congratulations from Kissilt, Yerranola, and Cameral for being the sacrifice. For five minutes, everyone was giddy on the victory.

And then the excitement faded a notch and the students all looked at each other. Cameral shook his head, raising it with both arms so everyone could see him.

“That was an unworthy prank. I truly thought the Professor was offended. And knowing him, he would have kept up the ruse. Do you think he intended to let us wait the entire summer break if Umina and Wil did not demand the right to a question?”

“Probably. He might have kept us waiting forever if we didn’t ask. But the guts to not just ask, but demand?”

Marian stamped her hooves, looking vexed and pleased. She looked at Umina. Still shaking with nervous energy, the Lizardgirl nodded.

“He does it every time. I still have nightmares about that test where every answer was in the same column!”

“Just absolutely out of his egg-headed mind. The worst teacher I’ve ever had that way. Even in Manus—”

Kissilt growled. He paused as the Lizardpeople around him stared at the Drake. Kelsa shook her head.

“Do you think he’s that bad to his opponents on the battlefield?”

Yerranola exhaled.

“Oh, believe me. We were on campaign with him and he did a trick with the drums—remember, Venaz?”

The Minotaur nodded.

“He can be even worse, I heard. Imagine trying to fight a war against him?”

All the students shuddered. They tried to imagine facing off against their teacher. And it might one day happen. They were students for now, but they were training themselves to take positions of authority on the battlefield. It was a sobering reminder of the future.

But for now—Wil looked around. His cheeks were red with relief. They had done it. The Titan would answer any question Wil and Umina had. Any one question in the world. The excitement, that knowledge, was dawning on the other students. Umina felt dozens of eyes on her and trembled.

Any question within the Titan’s power to answer. Anything. And she would ask it tonight. She and Wil. The young man looked around. And then he raised his voice.

“Let’s get a drink. First round’s on me!”



—-



Two tables had been pulled together in the bar for the students to sit together. It was a crowd even by the pub’s usual standard, and they were used to the students of Niers’ academy. But everyone was there to celebrate Umina and Wil getting to ask the question. All of their friends.

All of them. Jekilt and Marian, Centaurs, Yerranola the lone Selphid of the advanced class, Feshi the Gnoll who was sitting next to the grumpy Kissilt, a Drake with mild ice breath and pale white-purple scales, Venaz the Minotaur, Umina, two other Lizardfolk, Cameral and another Dullahan…and Foliana…

And now Merrik, Peki, Kelsa, Romin, and four more officers from their classes. They were one of the larger friend groups that had emerged from Daquin. Now Merrik raised his mug.

“A toast! To the Titan’s question!”

He downed his drink in one go as the others cheered. Venaz lowered his mug, looking put out that Merrik had beaten him to it. All the students drank and exhaled practically as one. They’d done it.

It was odd how the jealousy and resentment of the first few weeks had faded into a universal expectation, Umina reflected. A number of students had not been happy about her snatching victory at the last moment, or Wil being awarded a question for his daring maneuver in bringing a fleet into Daquin. But the long delay had solidified the student body’s sympathy for Wil and Umina. Perhaps, all as the Titan had planned. You had to admire him if that was the case.

“So, have you both thought of your question?”

Yerranola was the first to break the ice. She leaned over the appetizers and drinks, staring at Wil and Umina. The other students glanced up expectantly. Umina paused in eating some of the shrimp.

“I—um, I think so!”

“Well?”

Kissilt demanded after a second. Marian nudged him hard.

“Don’t be an ass, Kissilt. It’s private!”

“Is it? We won’t know the answer.”

“It could be! If Umina doesn’t want to say—what about you, Wil?”

Wil nodded. He didn’t look as happy as Umina would have expected. He sipped from his lighter ale, picking at his corn bread side, richly buttered.

“All sorted. I know what I have to ask. I don’t have much of a choice on my part.”

“Oh. You mean—you’re going to ask on behalf of your family?”

Yerranola exhaled slowly. Everyone leaned out of the way of her corpse breath. It wasn’t too bad with fresh bodies, but—the Selphid apologetically waved a scent-charm in the air. Wil was nodding.

“My family pulled a lot of strings to get that fleet to move into Daquin. I can’t exactly ask a question for myself, can I?”

“But it’s the question. You can’t just ask on their behalf! Don’t you have a burning question you have to know the answer to?”

Merrik protested over his mug. Peki punched him. Not in the side; the Dwarf’s head rocked.

“Dead gods damnit, Peki! Don’t punch me in the jaw!”

“Don’t be rude.”

The [Martial Artist] looked at Wil. He was shaking his head.

“I’d like to, Merrik. But I’m a [Lord]. I have duties to my family.”

“Right.”

The Dwarf grimaced. Some of the other students not from Terandria looked perplexed, including Venaz.

“What’s that got to do with it?”

“Loyalty to his family and kingdom, Venaz. Wil has to put his desires behind what’s good for his family.”

Merrik sighed. He looked sympathetic. Venaz looked perplexed.

“I understand that. But this is an individual reward. One cannot expect Wil to give up all his desires. Let him ask his own question. What benefits him ultimately benefits his family. Isn’t that so?”

He looked around for support. Cameral was nodding, as were the Centaurs and Kissilt, but Feshi, Yerranola, and one of the other Terandrians were shaking their head. The Lizardpeople students were predictably, split. Wil sighed again, and Marian patted him on the shoulder.

“House Kallinad’s a coastal duchy, isn’t it, Wil? I know that the Kallinad family’s wealthy. You didn’t spend too much, did you?”

“It’s about prestige, Marian. If I gave nothing back to my family, they’d suffer politically more than financially.”

Feshi frowned, wrinkling her furry face. The Gnoll looked around.

“Duke…duke…it means punching something, yes? But it’s also a rank. I forget Human nobility’s titles so easily. What position is [Duke]?”

“Just below a [Prince]. It’s pretty much the highest rank of the nobility. Wil’s important.”

Yerranola grinned as she ruffled Wil’s hair. He let it happen, resigned. They were good friends, like Marian, Umina, and Venaz’s odd friendship.

“Don’t exaggerate, Yerranola. I’m just a [Lord]. Kallinad’s a big family. I’m not even in the immediate line of succession. There are eight stronger heirs with a claim to the family head than me.”

“Really? I thought you were a third son.”

“Yes, but it’s about bloodline, Feshi. Technically, my father had my sister with his, uh, first wife. And I’m the product of the second. But that’s not how Terandrians choose their successors.”

The Gnoll [Strategist] looked confused. Cameral leaned forwards, feeding his head with a spoon.

“It’s first-born from each previous leader, isn’t it?”

“That’s a lineal descendant, Cameral. Direct inheritance. We used to do that in Terandria…a long time ago. Now though, it’s ichorial descendancy.”

The blank looks came from everyone this time, even Merrik, who was used to some of Terandrian politics. The [Lord] looked embarrassed as he tried to elaborate.

“The purest bloodlines lead each house, not the heir of each predecessor. If you marry into the nobility or even royalty of another family, your children are, uh, purer in descent. So that means my father’s sister—my Aunt Delicha—has the strongest claim because she’d married to a [Baron] of Ailendamus. Her children are first to inherit unless my sister, Talia, gets married to someone with a bloodline at least as pure as…”

Yerranola’s eyes rolled into the back of her head. Umina tried to follow the convoluted explanation, but gave up. So did Wil as he realized he was losing his audience. Foliana drank out of Xelic’s mug with a straw.

“It’s very complex. And houses can split or schism all the time when fighting over succession. Kallinad hasn’t had one for a few centuries, which means it’s probably time.”

“Dead gods. And I thought politics in Baleros were messy. What’s the point of all that?”

Xelic got up to refill his mug. Wil shrugged.

“Intermarriage between the noble houses prevents strife, in theory. It’s also hard to wipe out a house for that reason. Everyone of the peerage is distantly related to each other. Only a few bloodlines have been erased, sometimes due to war, or assassinations—the Goblin King, the Necromancer—”

“Bastard.”

Kissilt interjected that comment as an aside. Merrik laughed.

“A toast to dead undead!”

Everyone drank to that, although most of the other students didn’t share the same view of necromancy. The conversation circled right back to Wil. This time it was Venaz who was objecting to Wil’s decision.

“But you are beholden to your kingdom, aren’t you? House Kallinad is still under the domain of the Kingdom of…Pheislant. Hm. Cameral! Pheislant! What are the facts?”

He turned to the Dullahan quickly. Kissilt, Cameral, Venaz, and Yerranola were all fans of flash-facts about other nations. They loved quizzing each other at random. The Dullahan instantly sat up and his hands scratched the top of his head as he replied.

“Naval nation. Unit of specialty—aquatic [Knights]? Strong navy; weaker army but entrenched fortifications along borders. Largesse means strong connections with [Knight] orders, especially Order of Seasons. Last war—defeat. Against Ailendamus—”

“Yes, good! But that means Kallinad owes loyalty to Pheislant. If you’re asking a question on behalf of your house, shouldn’t you ask one on behalf of your kingdom? I’m just extending this logical train of thought. I still think you should ask your own question.”

“It’s not that simple, Venaz. [Dukes] can refuse royal orders if they have good reason. In fact, sometimes they can overthrow the [King].”

“What?”

Kissilt looked as appalled as Venaz. The Drake shook his head, spilling his drink as he reached for a shrimp. Foliana shook the liquid off her fur as she stood next to him.

“You damned Human anarchists. What happened to the order of law?”

“Shut it, Kissilt. No one wants to hear about the superiority of Drakes. It’s as bad as listening to Venaz talk about Minotaurs.”

“I resent that!”

“As do I!”

The Drake and Minotaur glared at each other. Feshi cleared her throat.

“Speaking of bloodlines—how is it that the nobility don’t have funny heads and weird noses, Wil? I’ve seen bad inbreeding among Oldblood families back home. And it is not pretty, no?”

She looked at Kissilt and the Drake, glaring, nodded. Wil shrugged.

“We make sure to marry distant blood relatives. And lots of the nobility have Skills to help with children.”

“Skills? What, like fertility Skills?”

Cameral spat his drink out and glared at Yerranola. The Selphid cackled, greatly amused. The other Dullahans looked scandalized. Wil turned beet red.

“No! Inheritance Skills! You know, [Adroit Progeny]? Skills that allow you to pass on what the mother or father was good at—like if the father was a [Lord] who was excellent at warfare, his children have a better chance of being as good as he was with a sword, or as beautiful as their mother?”

He looked around. This time the side-eyes he got were deeply disturbed. Jekilt shook his head. His torso leaned over as his horse-half sat on the cushions.

“Let me get this straight. Terandrian nobility have Skills that…change their children?”

He looked appalled. Wil nodded.

“Wait. No one else has heard of it? It’s not rare. I mean—come on. Really? It makes sense! A Skill that passes down appearance, or talent? No one…?”

The other species looked at each other. And then they pushed themselves back from the table, leaving the Humans and Merrik alone. They huddled together, glancing over at Wil. Foliana was stealing Kissilt’s shrimp.

“Dead gods, that explains so much. Remember the other nobility we met? No wonder so many washed out!”

“That’s so freaky. Terandria is weird.”

“Don’t make fun of him! He’s got a great body! Do you know how much it costs to buy the body of the nobility on the black market? Let alone a good one? Look at that jaw!”

Yerranola objected, pointing back at Wil. Marian snorted.

“He probably got it from his father.”

Venaz nodded, looking deeply disgruntled.

“He was born with an advantage. Humans. Even with children, they have to put a finger on the scales—”

“Don’t drag scales into this, Venaz. We don’t do anything like that in the Walled Cities.”

“What about Oldblood breeding programs, Kissilt? I know Drakes do that!”

“It’s not the same as having Skills—hey! Who ate my shrimp? Marian!”

The Drake exclaimed as he saw his bowl was nearly empty. He turned and glared at the Centauress to his left. She folded her arms.

“Don’t look at me! I don’t like shrimp!”

“You don’t?”

Xelic, one of the Lizardmen, looked horrified. Umina sighed as she waved for another bowl of the delectable crustaceans. Alive. Drunken shrimp marinated in alcohol were the best. Marian just shuddered as half the table ordered a second round of snacks. Foliana took another from Kissilt’s bowl.

“I don’t know how you eat them. They’re awful! Fish, now, I like fish. But shrimp? They’re okay if they’re breaded, but raw? Moving?”

Marian pointed at the refill a Lizardgirl [Server] was bringing over. The drunk shrimp met a grisly fate as Venaz picked it up and bit the head off. He shrugged.

“Food is food, Marian. It’s not like this is a parasite or something. Now, some creatures have little eggs that if you eat them—”

“Dead gods, Venaz! Shut up! I’m eating!”

Someone threw a shrimp at Venaz. He threw the shrimp back, and the table was distracted for a few minutes. Wil endured more good-natured prodding at his ancestry and refused to answer which Skills his parents had used in the bedroom. But at last, someone raised his voice for everyone’s attention.

It was Jekilt. The serious [Captain] was older than the other students, and so commanded more or less silence as he rose to his hooves. He nodded, raising a mug to Wil and Umina.

“I know Daquin was your victory, Umina. You won, and there is nothing else to say. Wil, you earned your question likewise. And you’ll ask your question tonight.”

Everyone nodded. The good cheer faded and they all looked speculatively at the two. Wil met Umina’s eyes and both felt that tingle in their stomachs. Guilt too; the envy was clear on everyone’s face and Umina still felt bad about undercutting Marian. But Jekilt wasn’t done. He drank, and then came out with it.

“I’ve talked to the members of my old company, and they’ve all put in gold. If you ask the Professor a question on our behalf, we can pay you one thousand, two hundred, and eighty nine gold pieces.”

Umina turned to stare at Jekilt. And then Kissilt burst out furiously.

“Hey, Jekilt, you can’t do that!”

“Why not? It’s a fair trade. There’s no rule against it.”

Jekilt challenged Kissilt aggressively. The Drake shook his head as he got to his feet.

“No, you can’t do that! Because I was going to ask if they’d take my question instead!”

Laughter. Kissilt shouted, waving his claws and exhaling a plume of icy breath.

“Hear me out! Hear me out! It’s about classes.”

All the [Strategists] paused. The Drake went on, spreading his claws, looking at Wil and Umina.

“Listen. One of you can ask the Professor for this. It could be you, Umina! All you need to ask for is a list of every possible class consolidation the Professor knows about, and what Skills you get and the advantages and disadvantages. Think about it! We all stand to benefit. We could work towards our ideal class, and—and that information is worth gold if we sold it!”

He gestured around at the entire table. Marian blinked.

“That’s actually intelligent, Kissilt. But—every class? You think the Professor would really answer that?”

“Just [Strategists], then. Or commanding classes. Don’t you all want to know what your possibilities are?”

“But that’s such a general question. How does it benefit Umina and Wil more than you, Kissilt?”

“Well, it benefits us all, so we’d owe the asker a huge favor—”

“I’m offering gold. And my question is private. If Umina and Wil want to take it—”

Jekilt was looking meaningfully at Umina. She bit her tongue, but Marian shielded her.

“Umina can ask whatever she wants. She won the right to a question, Jekilt, not you.”

“No one’s denying that, Marian. But Jekilt’s right. She could stand to gain. Listen, I was going to bring this up later, but a [Merchant] friend of mine has similar offer—”

“Don’t pressure her, Xelic!”

Marian glared at the Lizardman. Merrik slammed his mug on the table.

“Aw, come on. Let’s at least float our questions! Peki’s got one about martial arts techniques, so that’s probably out, but mine—”

All the students were looking at Wil and Umina now. Uneasily, Umina got up, raising her claws.

“Look, I don’t want to make promises. I have my own question—”

“Just hear us out!”

Wil was fending off Yerranola and Feshi. Marian looked up, and then leaned over.

“Umina, I do have one of my own—”

“Marian!”

“Enough! Wil, Umina, the door! Now! The rest of you, back off!”

Venaz shot to his feet. He pushed back the others as Wil and Umina backed towards the door. The Minotaur was impossible for even the Centaurs to move in the press, and he fended them off as the two students fled out the back door.

Venaz followed them out. He wrestled the door closed, pushing back the rest of their classmates who were shouting their own questions. He turned to Wil and Umina as the two panted.

“Idiots. You have a right to choose. And you would have accepted such offers beforehand if you had any intention of giving up your question, wouldn’t you?”

Umina nodded sheepishly. She’d gotten inquiries already. Some very generous. But…it was her question. Wil looked resigned as he nodded.

“I can’t ask anything else. And I bet you want to ask your question, right, Umina?”

“Yeah. I—well, it’s mine. I’m tempted by the gold and such, but I really want to know, you know?”

“Understandable. Clearly understandable. No one can force you. Um. However—”

Venaz nodded a few times. The Minotaur cleared his throat, looking embarrassed. Foliana watched him with interest as she chewed on a still-wriggling shrimp.

“—if you’d care to listen to my idea, there is some merit in it.”

Wil and Umina paused as they brushed down their clothing. It was nearly dusk; the time was coming on soon. Venaz held up his hands as they looked at him.

“Listen to me! My idea is very sound. The Professor is known to have a vast spy network. If you ask this question, riches are the least of what we might gain. To begin with—”

He looked around conspiratorially and lowered his voice.

“Of all the seafaring ships that sank in the last millennia, there are three that were known to have born relic-class artifacts that were never recovered. Just one would be worth a [King]’s ransom, not to mention that the three ships I have right here are all rich enough in other treasures to set all of us up for life. If you ask the Professor, I know a Minotaur crew that could take us anywhere in the world—”

He had a piece of paper with three names written on it. Umina stared at Venaz’s serious face, and then at Wil. He glanced at her, amused, embarrassed, and gave her a sheepish grin. She returned it. They both glanced at Venaz and then they ran for it.



—-



It wasn’t hard to get back to her rooms, or evade the other students. They’d given up after the bar, and the few who saw her didn’t press the issue. Rather, Umina’s great challenge was drinking a bit of potion to sober up, and then picking a dress to wear.

She was nervous. Meeting the Professor in his personal quarters? That was a right few students had ever earned! She was so busy rummaging through her clothes she didn’t realize the sun was setting. Then she threw on her clothes and practically ran towards the citadel.

She met Wil at the gates. He was nearly as breathless as she, and the two slowed to walk up towards the personal quarters higher in the citadel. They were far from alone; the citadel’s [Servants] and regular occupants all waved at the two as they passed. Some called out good luck, others just laughed at the two nervous students. Wil kept adjusting his clothing. He glanced at Umina.

“You look good. Did you put on makeup?”

“Just a bit!”

Umina blushed. She’d chosen her best dress for the occasion. She had to! It didn’t feel right to just stroll into the Professor’s office otherwise. And Wil had clearly done the same. He was wearing a doublet and expensive-looking leggings that out priced Umina’s best wardrobe a few times over. He hadn’t applied scale polish like she had, though.

Wil tugged at the ruff nervously and coughed.

“This was all I had. I know it’s stuffy, but I thought…”

He gestured lamely at Umina’s dress and she nodded. It fit the occasion. The two climbed the stairs, ascending higher. The classrooms occupied the two bottom floors of the citadel. But higher were the quarters of the Forgotten Wing Company’s staff. Niers Astoragon and Foliana both lived here when they weren’t away.

There were guards too. Selphids, mainly. They let Wil and Umina pass; usually students were barred from the third floor or higher. One winked at Umina.

“Congratulations, you two!”

“Thank you.”

“Don’t let the Titan pull another prank on you!”

“We’ll try.”

Wil tried to smile. But his walk was growing increasingly more disjointed, staccato. Umina felt just as rattled. He began to speak again distractedly as they climbed another staircase.

“You know, it really was kind of him to give me the right to ask a question. You won.”

“I—cheated. Really, you gave me the distraction.”

Wil shook his head adamantly.

“A win’s a win. That’s what the Professor teaches us. I’m just grateful I can ask—”

He broke off. The two paused on the seventh floor. The Titan’s quarters lay here. Wil looked seriously at Umina.

“I didn’t say it in the bar, but I really am grateful for the opportunity to ask, Umina. If I hadn’t won a question, I’d have embarrassed my family and all the effort they put into helping me. I’m glad both of us get to ask.”

“Me too.”

Umina smiled at Wil. He wasn’t her closest friend, but she felt a strong sense of connection with him in this moment. His uncertainty and nerves reflected her own. They were birds of a feather, with respect to Peki.

The Titan’s door was very, very large. Or so it felt. It was large enough to accommodate a Centaur, so it had a towering impression. Umina and Wil stared up at it.

It was silly. Both knew that Niers didn’t even use this door, but a personal one through the Fraerling-ways. Even so, the door alone gave Umina butterflies. Slowly, she knocked.

“Professor? It’s us. Umina and Wil.”

She waited. There was no sound from within. After a moment, Umina knocked again.

No response. She glanced at Wil. Were they early? But the young man’s lips had compressed into a line.

“I think—Professor?”

He hesitated, and knocked louder. There wasn’t so much as a peep from inside. Wil glanced at Umina, pointed to the door, and mouthed silently. She groaned.

“He wouldn’t—”

“He would absolutely do that. I’ll do it.”

Wil squared his shoulders and put one palm on the doorknob. He turned it and Umina held her breath.

“Unlocked.”

Wil looked at Umina. Then, pale-faced, he pushed the door open. Umina saw only darkness beyond. She inhaled. Oh no, he really was gone—

And then there was a flare of light. A shimmering orb of [Light] filled a glass orb in the center of the room. And the soft radiance illuminated a table.

Just a table. On the far wall there were shelves, huge shelves but tiny papers. An archive meant for someone far smaller than Wil and Umina. A painting hung above a scrying orb; another wall held what looked like an armory in miniature.

But most of the room looked like an office. Scrolls of parchment, velum, sheaves of paper, were organized on the desks and tables meant for regular-sized people.

This was a private room. But the bed, the chairs, and all the comforts of home could fit on one single table in the center. They’d been pushed to one side today, however, the little magical chessboard, his wardrobe—everything neatly tidied to a corner. On the table sat large bowls full of snacks. Several bottles that were giant compared to the tiny furniture. The glowing light orb.

And standing amid the dishes, smiling, was the Titan of Baleros. He too was dressed for the occasion in colorful clothing. He even had a hat with a feather. He swept Umina and Wil a bow, taking the hat from his head.

“Welcome!”

“Professor.”

Umina exhaled in exasperation and wonder. Wil just sighed in relief. Niers Astoragon’s eyes twinkled as he straightened.

“Come in, both of you. Sit, sit! And you can relax. That was the last test, I promise. Fraerling’s honor.”

Warily, not believing him for a moment, the two entered the room. They couldn’t help but stare around at the shelves full of documents, the tiny possessions next to the huge furniture. This was a Fraerling’s room. They had never seen one before; few of the small folk ever ventured into society at large. Fraerling villages were hidden. Umina almost wanted to giggle as she saw the Titan’s bed. She could pick it up, or hide it under a hat! But then she saw him sitting there and froze up.

Wil approached the table. There were two chairs at opposite ends. The Titan had one on the table itself. The [Lord] looked at the snacks and drinks.

“Is this—a meal, Professor?”

The Fraerling shrugged. He ushered Wil to one side, Umina to the other. He was smiling, looking as pleased and relaxed as they’d ever seen him.

“Drinks, really. But if you want anything else, I’ll have someone make it. Come now, sit! I told you, the tests are over.”

“Really, Professor? You had us ask you this morning. And now the door?”

Umina sat cautiously. The chair was lovely and comfortable and she practically sank into it. Wil did the same, but he sat upright, nervous. The Titan sighed, but his eyes twinkled.

“It was rather cruel of me. But I couldn’t help it. You do have to learn how to speak to your superiors. A [Strategist] must be able to overrule a [King] if need be. Nevertheless, I apologize. And I do promise that was the last of it. You’re here! Sit down. Take a bite of something. Relax. You’ve done it.”

So saying, he sat down and snagged a date. It was comically huge compared to him, but the Titan, undeterred, simply pulled out a sword and sliced off a hand-sized chunk. He laughed at the expression on Umina and Wil’s face.

“I seldom eat with you all. But believe me, Fraerlings can eat quite a lot! It still makes feeding us ludicrously cheap. Not to mention alcohol! Help yourselves. If you’d like a drink, you’ll have to pour. It makes me a poor host, but at least I can serve myself.”

He had a thimble-sized cup, and Umina was tickled beyond belief to see that each bottle had a tiny valve attached to it! Like a keg’s spigot! They were made of metal and the Titan strode over to one and casually filled his cup.

“Professor, is that…?”

The Titan’s eyes twinkled.

“Oh, this? Just a Fraerling invention. We drill holes into a bottle and attach the spigot. Far easier than having something custom-made, isn’t it? Help yourself! I think this wine is…ah, yes. Saverian Red, quite a good one. I have a few others; if you want a juice, there’s one in that bottle. Water’s—no, wait, that’s alcohol. Ah, there it is. Magically purified water. And spring water. Help yourselves! Come on, now!”

Bemused, Wil looked at Umina, before reaching for the Saverian Red. Umina helped herself to the magically purified water; she’d had a bit too much to drink already. Still, the snacks were calling to her and she gingerly picked up a few chips made of Yellats. The spicy chips were made even hotter by sprinkled pepper and there was a beautiful dip just waiting to help her with it…

“I thought we were asking a question, Professor. This seems more like a meal. If we’re taking up your time…”

Wil’s hesitation was waved away by Niers. He laughed as he settled back into his chair, munching on his date.

“Not at all. I cleared my schedule, just as I said. I’m free for the entire night. And you, Wil Kallinad and Umina Caxical, are my guests. We’ll sit and talk, so eat and drink to your heart’s content! Don’t worry about the question. While you’re here, you may ask me anything you wish and I’ll do my best to answer.”

“What?”

The two students were astonished. Niers grinned.

“Within reason. Secrets are secrets. But if you ever had a burning desire, to, say, ask me about the inner workings of my company, or any of the rumors surrounding me—ask.”

“But—anything, Professor?”

“I believe I said that, Umina.”

“But you said we get one question!”

The Lizardgirl tried to control her tail and neck frills, both of which were trying to move in excitement. The Fraerling’s eyes twinkled and he winked.

“That’s just what I tell other students. Did you think I’d march you in here one at a time and you’d ask a question and leave after I answered?”

They had thought just that. Wil and Umina exchanged a glance. Niers laughed quietly as he got up to grab a chip and some dip. He carried it back over his head and tossed it next to his seat. It was hilarious to watch and he winked at Wil’s face.

“Laugh, Wil! I know it’s funny to see.”

“I wasn’t—then what is tonight, Professor?”

“A conversation.”

Niers sat back in his chair. He ran a hand through his beard. And he smiled faintly, looking up at his two much younger students.

“I know we’ve talked in class. But that’s a different setting than now. Here, we’re not student and teacher, but people. You ask me questions, I answer. We have a dialogue, not an examination. That’s the prize. You two and me, getting to know each other for a night. The question is just the end of our discussion.”

Umina and Wil exchanged a look. The Lizardgirl felt another flutter in her stomach, but it was fading. Niers sat back, looking from face to face on opposite side of the table. He lifted a cup.

“So, then. To your victories at Daquin. It has long been overdue. To you, Umina, and you, Wil. Congratulations!”

The two lifted their cups and drank. Niers drained his cup in one go. Umina did likewise and had to fill it with something stronger. The unabashed compliment had already put a fire in her cheeks. Wil likewise. Niers Astoragon was smiling as he got up to refill his drink. When he sat down again, he looked at them.

“Whenever I have a student in this room, it’s always a mixed feeling. On one hand, I couldn’t be prouder of you. Either of you. You did it. You defeated Tulm the Mithril and you won my game. Out of all your peers, you excelled. As a teacher, I’m delighted. But also melancholic.”

“Sir?”

Niers smiled as he looked at Wil.

“Because it means your time at my academy, in my classes, is coming to a close. You two are nearing graduation. It might be in another year or two, or it could be sooner.”

The two inhaled sharply. Niers nodded.

“It’s a sign. Well, your class is all nearing that point. But this moment especially is significant. I may never have Venaz in this room, or Yerranola, or Feshi or any of the others. It’s not as though I offer the opportunity to win a question all the time. But I try to make time to have a one-on-one talk before each student goes. Sometimes it doesn’t happen, of course.”

“And this is it?”

Umina felt a pang in her stomach. Niers looked at her.

“Not just yet, Umina, my dear. And we might speak like this again. I hope so, in fact! So, let’s not drag down this discussion—you two aren’t graduates yet! Especially after your report! Failing to write your name—”

He laughed at the chagrin on Umina’s face.

“I’m joking, Umina. You and Wil did well! But we won’t talk about that. As I said, this is a conversation. I believe I don’t do all the talking, although I know I tend to dominate discussions.”

He looked meaningfully from side to side. Umina jumped and Wil cut in.

“Er—that means you’ve done this before, Professor?”

“Oh, countless times! With many students! The winners of my games, obviously. As far back as when I started offering them.”

The Titan waved a hand, smiling fondly at the memories only he could see. Umina was relaxing, or the strong liquid burning her forked tongue was.

“Then—you’ve had all your students in here, Professor? Or the best ones. That means—Professor Perorn? Fleethoof?”

“One of my first winners. I think she sat in your very chair, Umina.”

Niers winked at the Lizardgirl. Umina turned bright red. Wil coughed.

“She didn’t, Professor.”

“Oh, come now, Wil. Let Umina have her moment! No, she didn’t. Centaurs and chairs don’t mix. But she probably sat somewhere around where we are!”

Niers laughed and Umina exhaled, grinning sheepishly. Niers waved a hand.

“Yes. I’ve had conversations with many, many students here. Some for the question, others just because I wanted to talk to them before they left. As people, not in our usual relationship.”

“So—if I may ask—”

“Ask away! There are no bad questions here!”

Niers chuckled. Wil nodded.

“What about Tulm the Mithril?”

Umina coughed on her chips. Niers paused. Both Wil and Umina remembered Tulm, and his overpowering presence at Daquin. But he too had been one of the Titan’s students. Umina tried to imagine him in one of their classes. But Niers just nodded.

“Tulm, oh yes. And oh, no. I certainly taught him and had conversations with Tulm, but not ever here. Not after he won my game.”

“Really?”

The two younger [Strategists] leaned forwards. Niers grinned ruefully.

“You both know how he won my games? Yes? Well, do you think he sat in this room after burning down an entire city to win my game? I sent him his answer in letter form. If he and I had been here, it would have turned ugly. I was furious at him.”

“Really? But he won—”

“By burning down a city! And putting thousands of lives at risk! But he did win; I’ve just never seen eye-to-eye with him. I’ll admit, he got me, but Tulm was a troublesome student. Brilliant of course, but he could get under my skin! Still, he was as young as you two when I taught him.”

Niers frowned darkly, then brightened.

“Would you like to hear all about his embarrassing mistakes?”

Spellbound, Umina and Wil nodded. Niers chuckled.

“You think you made a bad mistake by not writing your name on your report, Umina? One time we had an assignment to lead a group of [Soldiers] like this last project—only in reality! Somehow, Tulm misheard the beach I wanted everyone to meet at and thought he was marching north. He made it three hundred miles and got hopelessly lost—it was two weeks before we found him! He thought the monsters, [Bandits], and everything he ran into was part of the test!”

He laughed. Umina giggled, trying to imagine that. Wil was trying not to, but he had to turn his head and chuckle. Niers went on.

“And he was hopelessly enamored with one of my other teachers. A Selphid.”

“No.”

“Oh yes! He wrote a love letter and it got mixed up with my homework. It was—ah, poetic in that Dullahan fashion. I think he nearly hopped off the citadel’s highest tower when he realized he’d turned it in with his assignment. I still have a copy. Want me to find it?”

“No! I mean—”

Umina was aghast. Tulm the Mithril? Niers grinned.

“Just remember he’s a person too. And he was as young as you two! Of course, now he’s a legend. But no one’s perfect. Perorn—”

He paused.

“Well, maybe I shouldn’t talk about her. She’d probably stomp on me if I told you her mistakes.”

“She made some?”

The Fraerling hesitated as he looked up at Wil, leaning down. Umina did likewise. The Titan wavered and then tapped one side of his nose.

“The fishing incident. I dare say no more. If you’ve brave, you’ll get someone else to ask Perorn about it.”

He chortled. And Umina and Wil laughed too. They were relaxed now. Suddenly, Umina found herself asking Niers, the Professor, the Titan questions. What was Perorn like as a student? And Wil was doing the same. They caught themselves, exchanged a glance.

It was a side of Niers they had never seen. And both of them felt it. This was a special moment. Something they’d earned. The Titan was speaking to them like equals. But neither could dwell on it; he was still talking.

And now Niers was speaking of Daquin. They’d gone over the game in detail in a number of lessons, but the Professor was speaking to Wil, looking up at him, smiling fondly.

“Brilliant work, Wil. Moving an entire strike force from Terandria to outside of Daquin by sea, unseen, and timing their attack? As logistics go, you’re already above most average [Strategists]. Hone that talent, lad. Don’t let it be your only trump card, but know that you have an advantage there and everyone will remember that fact.”

Niers held up a finger.

“With that said, you need work commanding a larger force. I don’t expect any of my students to beat Tulm in a city-wide brawl, even with the element of surprise and the Order of Seasons, but your command, while good, was too straightforward. Tulm was expecting more surprises which never came, and when he found your measure he began pushing you back hard. Still, you managed to make him use one of his better Skills—no, two of them. That’s something to be proud of.”

Wil nodded, breathless. The Fraerling turned to the Lizardgirl, and she felt a surge of apprehension. But Niers’ smile was kind.

“Umina, I confess you weren’t in the light as much as Wil, but your tactics were just as brilliant. Tunneling through a septic tank? That takes bravery! Especially to be able to create sappers and use them when everything was reaching the climax of the battle! Your coolness under pressure and the ability to think far outside your opponents is what I’ve seen you grow during your time as a student. A deserved win! You managed to outpace an entire force of [Knights] and every single one of your classmates!”

“Thank you, Professor.”

He nodded.

“Now, with that said, you didn’t do it alone. What you lack, Umina, is the daring Venaz and Marian demonstrated, the willingness to take huge risks. Wil showed that too, come to that. You’re acting like a [Tactician] among [Strategists] and while that means you cut deep with surprising maneuvers, you need to develop your own authority and presence as a commander, not a squad leader.”

It was fair. Umina felt a small sting to her pride, but she knew he was right. She took a gulp from her drink. Niers did likewise as he looked from student to student.

“Those are your strengths and weaknesses. As [Strategists], you two still have something to learn. But I’d still put you against any ordinary company-level [Strategist] and expect you to win handily! Functionally, you’re both at the level of any graduate of my regular classes. What I want to see is how high you’ll get to before you graduate. And that’s me in teaching mode. Back to conversation! I just had to tell you how proud I am of your victories.”

“Thank you, sir.”

Wil’s cheeks were red again. He reached for a few dates and ate them one at a time before taking some water. Umina had already finished her cup. She fidgeted.

“Professor—can I ask…?”

“I’d be offended if you didn’t. Go on, Umina!”

“Okay then. Professor, why do you give out the right to ask a question for winning your game? Any question? Will you really answer it truthfully? What do you have to gain from something like that?”

Wil looked up. And Niers’ eyes sharpened.

“Ah, now you’re asking the questions you really want to know the answer to. Don’t worry! That wasn’t your question. And I’m happy to answer it.”

So saying, he got up and began to pace around the table. He snagged a bit of cheese as he walked past a bunch of cubes, slicing a bit off to munch and eat. He looked up at last.

“I know I shouldn’t, but I have to make it a lesson. Old habits. Tell me, what’s the purpose of a secret, you two?”

They were back in class again, only the pressure wasn’t so high. Umina sipped from her drink, thinking.

“Knowledge, Professor? A potential advantage over someone else?”

“Good. Accurate, but not what I’m looking for. Wil, your thoughts?”

“Then—trust? Safety, perhaps?”

The Titan shook his head.

“All good answers. But to me, the answer is: constancy. The purpose of secrets is to prevent change. Because the secret is kept, the world remains the same. That’s why you keep a secret. When you use it is when things change.”

His students nodded, fascinated. Niers went on, walking up a wooden slope to slice a chunk out of a banana. His sword was enchanted, but he was using it like a table knife. And a fork.

“Why do I offer a question? Well, to explain that, I’ll talk about my world. I’m second-in-command to the Forgotten Wing Company, one of the most powerful forces in all of Baleros. But not the undisputed best, yes? We have the Four Great Companies of Baleros. And, why not? Let’s throw in Jungle Tails in as well. They were a Great Company and they’re still powerful.”

Umina flushed. Only a Lizardfolk Company would have such a playful name. Niers smiled, nodding.

“Not to mention other companies who are powerful, if not as large as the top four. All of us big players, well, we’re held by each other. No one wants one side to gain more power than we already have, so there’s an unofficial agreement to ally to defend against an aggressor. If the Forgotten Wing Company moves now, two Companies or more will move against it. Stalemate, you see? We’re too big, and all the alliances are too firmly entrenched. So we enjoy the luxuries of success without being able to break the status quo.”

“But you clash with other companies all the time, Professor.”

He waved that away.

“Border skirmishes, Umina. Wars by proxy. There hasn’t been a major battle between our companies with hundreds of thousands of [Soldiers] on the line in over a decade. Even eighty thousand soldiers isn’t much compared to what we can field.”

The Lizardgirl nodded. Niers went on, frowning.

“The trouble is, I don’t appreciate the stalemate. I’d like not to live the rest of my life like this. I’d like the Forgotten Wing Company to gain even more power! But we can’t. Not easily. We have too many enemies now. It might be different if it were easier to move abroad, forge alliances on other continents, even recruit and set up bases there. But the Iron Vanguard controls the seas and we have to negotiate hard to send armies to other continents. If we could expand—but I’ve tried making our own navies time and time again, and Tulm shuts down my attempts each time. You can’t keep a fleet that secret.”

Wil looked like he wanted to take notes. So did Umina. This was Niers Astoragon, talking about the challenges of his position candidly and openly. She had no idea that he’d tried to make a fleet. The Titan grimaced.

“So back to your question, Umina—secrets. Why do I offer them? The better question is: what’s stopping me? It’s just a secret. Yes, it’s valuable, but what’s that to me? I’m rich! What good are secrets if they’re kept forever? Maybe I want to give my students some help. Maybe I think it’s a worthwhile incentive. Maybe—I’m just tired of everything being so constant.”

He looked pointedly at Umina and Wil. They analyzed what he was saying.

“So you’re helping us to destabilize the balance of power?”

The thought was mind-boggling. Niers waved a hand, smiling.

“Don’t worry, I don’t intend for any one person to do that. I’m just explaining, Umina—I don’t care if giving out a secret messes with the established order. I don’t need to maintain it. In fact, I’m counting on you two. All of you young [Strategists] to generate some excitement for me. I’d hate to die of boredom.”

The compliment took the words out of both students for a moment. But then Wil asked a question next. He had to. This was their chance. And oh, they had so many questions, rumors among the students they needed answers to. Umina couldn’t imagine how much her classmates would kill to have been here. They’d be buying her drinks for weeks when she told them about this moment! And this wasn’t even the question!

“Is Three-Color Stalker—I mean, Lady Foliana really the head of the Forgotten Wing Company, Professor?”

“What, are you doubting the chain of command, Mister Kallinad?”

Niers looked mock-offended. Wil bit into a tiny fried fish, removing the bones before answering.

“Not at all, Professor. But it’s odd, given that she doesn’t um, command? Wouldn’t it make more sense for her to be second-in-command and you to lead?”

“I hear that all the time. But she’s been a leader for a long time and I have to say, it works.”

Niers shook his head. He spotted an ant and kicked it; Umina watched it fly away.

“Damn things. Must have come with the food; I have ward charms. Anyways, where was I? Oh, yes. Foliana.”

Niers shrugged.

“She’s better at leading than I am, in a way. She’s unpredictable, disappears on me, has no social ability—but that’s fine in a leader so long as I’m here. She scares the flesh off of other rulers and company leaders and they can’t make her do anything she doesn’t want. It’s a symbiotic relationship, but yes, when she gives orders, I obey. Rare as that is, there have been times I’ve been grateful for it.”

“So she actually is in charge.”

Umina exhaled and looked at Wil. He winked at her, deadpan. Cameral owed Umina a gold coin! Niers laughed.

“Leadership comes in different forms. And Foliana being our head means no one can truly ever figure out how we’ll jump. Not even me! Besides, she and I have known each other for decades. Dead gods, over fifty years come to think of that.”

“In that case—that leads me into my question, Professor.”

Umina almost raised a hand before she caught herself. Niers and Wil both laughed quietly. The drink was loosening tongues as well. And Niers wasn’t using his bag of holding trick; his students had finally caught on to it.

“What made you decide to become a [Strategist], Professor? Everyone knows you were a Named Adventurer before you formed a mercenary company, but what made you—uh—”

Umina fell silent because she didn’t know how to say it without being offensive. Niers smiled.

“What made a tiny Fraerling decide he could take on the big, bad world? Don’t worry, Umina. I get that question all the time. The answer is…well, do either of you have cats?”

“Cats?”

Umina looked blank. Wil nodded.

“We have some in the Kallinad household. Not many dogs; my mother’s allergic.”

“Huh. Remind me never to visit the Kallinad estates. I hate cats. I’m not keen on dogs either, or many ‘pets’. But cats I hate. You know why?”

Umina didn’t have to guess. The Titan was gesturing at his candle-sized height.

“They’re a danger to Fraerlings, right, sir?”

“Exactly. Cats love small objects. Even trained ones will kill anything as small as a mouse. Fraerlings are in danger around them. Cats are cruel, too. They kill things for fun. They’re banned anywhere a Fraerling village exists, and everywhere where the Forgotten Wing Company holds power. They can stay indoors, but those damn things don’t go outside.”

“What’s that got to do with you becoming an adventurer, sir? Or a [Strategist]?”

If he says his family was killed by a cat, don’t laugh. Umina repeated it twice and saw Wil doing the same. Niers smiled.

“I’m just bringing up cats because they’re a good example. Cats are deadly to Fraerlings. But uh, how many of your people do you know that have been killed by a cat?”

“Well, bobcats—”

“Housecats, Umina.”

“…Two?”

Niers and Umina both paused and looked at Wil. He looked embarrassed.

“Suffocation. I have a third-aunt who was suffocated in her sleep by all the cats she kept. And I heard about another death the same way.”

“That’s hilarious. Those damn furred monsters.”

Niers shook his head. He waved Wil’s statement away.

“Practically though, they don’t savage you to death, right? Umina, you’re no [Warrior] but I bet you could fight off a dozen cats if you had to. Fraerlings on the other hand? I know…dead gods, at least twenty eight people who died to cats. Imagine that.”

The statement was sobering. Umina paused as she reached for a drink. Niers went on, gesturing to his body.

“A Fraerling is strong. An adult can lift things many times their weight. I could toss that cup you’re holding, Umina, even lift it when it’s full. But that’s not much use when everything’s so big, is it?”

“No, sir.”

The Titan sighed. He sat back down in his chairs and stared upwards. When he spoke, it was distantly.

“I grew up in a Fraerling village. Like most Fraerlings. It’s rare we live elsewhere. Sure, some of us have that classic story where we live in a house unknown to the owners, but let’s be real: that’s dangerous. It’s too easy to be squished. And rats! You ever think about fighting rats? They don’t fight you, but to us they’re like bulls. Big, vicious, and smart. Cats terrify us. Now, imagine what it’s like for Fraerlings to fight a Troll.”

He shook his head.

“There’s no point to being a [Warrior] if you’re a Fraerling. Not if you want to do anything with the tall folk. Oh, you can turn the tides and we have ways of dealing with huge foes, but it’s just a waste of levels when you get down to it. A Level 60 Fraerling [Warrior] can kill even a Griffin, but they’ll still die if you stomp on them a few times.”

“What about magic?”

Umina offered that uncertainty. Niers snorted.

“Ever seen a [Fireball] cast by a Fraerling [Mage]? Size isn’t everything where magic is concerned, but it matters. There’s this book by a Drake that goes into body mass and magic. Grimalkin—I think there’s a copy in the library. Anyways, that can be better, but Fraerlings are still too small. It’s literally too hard for us to weave larger spells; we can throw tiny [Fireballs] all day, but that’s not exactly what you need, is it?”

He shook his head.

“No. Fraerlings have to hide because we’re in danger. We can protect ourselves from rats; our [Warriors] can hack through a colony at high levels, but those are small threats. Big ones? No Fraerling can match an adventurer from another species. I knew that, growing up. I couldn’t stand with other species as a [Warrior] or a [Mage]. I didn’t want to be a [Crafter]. But there was one class that didn’t care how big you were. And that was…”

“[Strategist].”

Both his students exhaled. The Titan’s lessons were often circular, but they always came back to the point via story or example. He nodded, his eyes flashing.

“Exactly. It was my dream to leave my village. To be more than someone who had to hide from a stray housecat, or live in terror of an errant boot! And [Strategists] can affect any number of people! So I became one.”

“Just like that?”

Niers looked vaguely offended.

“We need [Strategists] in Fraerling villages too, Wil. Here, pass that bottle, will you? The Drake one. Thank you. Put it there. Yes, we need [Strategists]. And I was good at my job! I helped clear out this damn hornet’s nest on my first campaign, and I pushed back a boar herd.”

He saw his students chuckling and raised his brows.

“Oh, you laugh! But imagine fighting them with an army of people one foot tall at most? I was a higher-level [Strategist] than anyone else my age by the time I turned twenty! And when I left the village to go to an Adventurer’s Guild, I could have stood toe-to-toe with any of you in my classes now. Think of that!”

Umina did. She stopped laughing. Wil leaned forwards.

“You would have been an asset to a team, Professor. But I imagine it was difficult.”

Niers nodded.

“Oh yes! A [Strategist] buffing a team of adventurers? Giving them orders? I knew I could be invaluable. But no one wanted to take me on. They just laughed at the tiny Fraerling or tried to humor me. I spent three years going from team to team until I met a team that welcomed me. Foliana was a loner, then. We joined up and when I found a group that would actually listen to me—well, the rest is history.”

He spread his arms. Umina nodded. She’d read of the Titan’s adventuring days. She edged forwards, picking at the dates as Niers continued. He was good at storytelling; it suited his personality.

“First we were Bronze-rank. Bronze. I wasn’t, and neither was Foliana, but our companions were just starting out, hence them being willing to take orders from me. But we weren’t that way for long. I was leveling fast, using my abilities to make my team take on bigger challenges. We became Silver-rank within the month. And we hit Gold the next year! Before we knew it, we were Named Adventurers.”

“You were a Named Adventurer.”

You forgot that, sometimes. But the Titan had been one. Was he still one? His fame had eclipsed that rank, but there were so few Named Adventurers in the world. The Fraerling corrected Umina.

“A team, not individual ones of course; no one would ever make me a Named Adventurer on my own. But I dare say we were some of the best of our generation! Thirty strong!”

“Thirty?”

Wil paused, looking surprised. Niers grinned.

“Why not? It makes sense! Numbers, if used efficiently, is strength! True, most teams can’t sustain numbers higher than…a dozen at best. Most are around four to five. It’s not hard to understand why; maintaining a semblance of equality and balancing your income against maintaining families, gear, potions? Not to mention all the personalities you find in adventurers! Mine was different though; as a [Strategist], I could hold them together and get them to work on multiple missions at once. We were stronger than your average guild, in fact!”

“But why did you quit? What happened to the others?”

Umina had heard all sorts of rumors. And here, at least, the Titan’s openness wavered. He paused, and his expression grew bleak.

“Well, many joined the Forgotten Wing Company. If you’re asking where all of them are now…many passed away. On our final mission—or after we started our company. In battle, from disease, time…it’s been fifty years, as I said.”

He looked around, tired. Umina and Wil sobered. After a moment Niers shook his head.

“Not all of them died; some just quit. In the end, it was just a handful of us left, the Forgotten Wing Company’s original officers. And then…it was just Foliana and I from the adventuring days. So if you’re asking how I got from a Fraerling village to here—it was because I wanted to interact with the big people. And being a [Strategist] means I can order anyone about. The rest of it? It was just natural progression.”

He fell silent, and took another drink from his thimble-cup. Niers looked up.

“Any more questions? Remember, the floor’s open. Or table.”

Umina and Wil hesitated, looking at each other. They had another big one, but…Niers tapped one foot.

“Go on. I told you, nothing’s off-limits. If I don’t want to tell you, I just won’t.”

He smiled lightly, as if he could see right through them. And perhaps he could. Umina felt like the first day she’d ever sat in his class. Awestruck at meeting a legend in person. And he was so small. Until you looked at him and realized he was far larger than his actual body.

“If I may, Professor? I have to know this. Would you—tell us about your battle with Queravia?”

Wil broke the silence at last. Umina exhaled slowly. Yes. Of the big questions they had, that was the last one. Niers slowly raised his head. He stopped smiling.

“Ah. My famous battle with the King of Destruction’s [Strategist]. Queravia, the Gambler of Fates. You want to know how it went, I suppose?”

“You’ve never told us in class. I mean, about the battle, but never the specifics. Does everyone ask, Professor? Everyone who comes here?”

The Fraerling nodded, grinning.

“Of course they do! They want to hear it from me. And to be fair, it’s a tale worth telling. It’s just not one I care to tell to the public. You know all about it, of course?”

Umina nodded. She’d heard Foliana give her speech about the famous battle three years in a row. The Squirrel Beastkin didn’t even change her words, but it still got her applause each year with the retelling. But she had never heard the Titan telling his version of it.

“Was there something secret about the battle?”

“No. Yes—damn. Let’s go from the beginning.”

“Another lecture, Professor?”

Umina teased the Titan. He scowled, and then grinned.

“No, this isn’t a lecture. Well, perhaps it is. We’ve gone over the King of Destruction’s tactics and the way he was able to so effectively crush his opponents with grand strategy. Everyone knows that. But I want to tell you some of the information I don’t share about the end of the King of Destruction’s rampage.”

Umina and Wil exchanged another look. Secret information? They edged even closer, rocking the table. The Titan nearly lost his footing.

“Careful! My wardrobe’s over there! Yes, secret information. Alright, scoot in. This is what I don’t teach in my lessons. Part of it is due to caution; it could land me in trouble if I were accused of spreading rumors. And the other reason is because, frankly, there’s little to learn. First, let’s talk about the war. He’d taken Chandrar and was splitting up his armies to invade both Izril and Baleros at once.”

“And that’s where he failed, right, sir? The Minotaurs ambushed his fleets at sea and killed one of his Seven. The Blighted King sent an army from Rhir and defeated Takhatres while the Walled Cities stalemated his armies. And in Baleros—”

“I killed Queravia.”

Niers put his cup down. He stood, looking from face to face.

“Yes. And after that, the King of Destruction entered his slumber and his kingdom collapsed. But it wasn’t that simple. You see, we teach that he was overextending, overconfident, and naturally he lost. But in truth, he was close to winning. Or at least, his strategy might have let him throw two continents into war.”

“Really? But his decision to split his armies—”

“It was intelligent. Risky, but he knew the world was coming for him. And like the Goblin King in decades since then, we’ve seen that few people can fight every army at once. So the King of Destruction changed tactics. Rather than let Chandrar be invaded and fight a defensive war, he, or perhaps Queravia, devised a bold strategy. Occupy two continents in war and force the battles to happen there.”

“But how would he fight on two fronts?”

Wil was perplexed, trying to see ahead of the answer. So was Umina. She blinked.

“Wait—was it—the Gnolls?”

Wil and Niers looked at her. The Titan’s eyes glittered.

“Full marks. Yes. That’s what I believed at the time. The King of Destruction had declared war against the Drakes. But I thought—perhaps he would reach out to the Gnoll tribes. Ally with them. Izril is divided. He could have reached out to the Humans too. And on Baleros? Look at our divided continent! Who might he have reached out for here?”

Neither student had to think.

“Selphids.”

“Half-Gazers too.”

Niers Astoragon inclined his head.

“Exactly. All the species who don’t have power. Who are shunned, by most groups. I employ Selphids in the Forgotten Wing Company, but if Flos Reimarch offered them a chance to take back power? Their land? Gnolls. Selphids. Half-Gazers. Maybe even the Minotaurs, before they decided to oppose him. He would have been their champion. But you know what terrified Wistram and Rhir?”

Umina and Wil inhaled sharply. Wil finished the thought.

“Demons. But he wouldn’t have allied with the Demon King. Surely not!”

He looked appalled. Niers didn’t answer at once. He looked around, meeting both student’s gazes.

“This is why I don’t teach this openly. But yes, he might have. Who knows? It’s just speculation. But I’ll wager you diamonds to dust that Wistram used that to move the Blighted King to send an army against the King of Destruction.”

“So that’s why Rhir sent an army.”

“Wistram is dangerous.”

That was just a fact. Both students nodded. Niers went on.

“So that was his strategy. And it might have worked! You’ve heard Foliana’s speech. Queravia landed with one army, separated from the King of Destruction’s vanguard after the battle with the Minotaurs. She was cut off, but she made a stand and crushed an army sent by two Great Companies! She was waiting for reinforcements, daring all of Baleros to take her on. And she won.”

Umina watched Niers walking back and forth slowly. His eyes were bright and glittering in the room, lit only by mage light.

“If she had kept going, he could have won. He lost one of his Seven against the Minotaurs, yes. But six remained. Amerys was fighting on Izril, holding down an entire Walled City! The Gnolls might have rallied if the King of Destruction had landed more armies there. And on Baleros? With more time, how many companies would have embraced Flos for a chance to rise in power? He could have done it.”

“But for you.”

“I saw it coming. And I took an army. Queravia had crushed one, but there was still a chance to defeat her. I gathered every force I could in a thousand miles and marched on her. Even so—her army had leveled from her victories and she had his elites. His Dreamers as well. I was facing the best of Chandrar’s forces, and cut off as they were, I knew it was a gamble. But I had to risk it. And that day I put myself against the Gambler of Fates. [Strategist] vs [Strategist].”

And he won. But Niers didn’t look proud. He shook his head.

“You want to know what happened on that day, Umina, Wil? The truth was that when we joined battle, from the first twenty minutes, I knew I was losing.”

“No.”

He nodded, staring backwards through time.

“Oh yes. Queravia was a genius. As gifted as I’ve ever seen. But it was her unique style that threw me. I realized in the first engagement why she had beaten two Great Companies. It was down to her Skills. Her…personality. Her luck. Let me give you an example.”

The Titan paced down the table. He came back with a chessboard Umina recognized. She inhaled as she saw the glowing magical pieces. They were in the middle of a game. The Titan carefully put it down and picked up two pawns. He showed them to her and Wil.

“Let’s say there was a matchup. Not a chess board; we know the outcome of each piece, but a real battle. Two units of…pikes, say, charging each other. The odds are incalculable who’ll win. You’re too busy as a [Strategist] to analyze their levels or makeup; you just see the opportunity to clash or withdraw. What do you do?”

“See if it benefits me to take the charge, distract the opponent. If not, retreat?”

It wasn’t really a good question for a hypothetical. Umina shrugged uncomfortably. Niers nodded.

“Fair enough. Wear them down if it’s strategic, force them to spread out and fight. But if you keep getting those encounters, do you keep committing?”

“No, sir. That’s too risky. I’d always want a scenario where I can win, or delay at acceptable…”

Umina trailed off. Niers nodded. He pointed to the two pawns, then put them back where they had been.

“Exactly. No sane [Strategist] gambles with an outcome. We take calculated risks, but we always try to create areas where we win, sometimes at the cost of others. Pull in here, sacrifice this unit, but hammer the opponent where it hurts here. Don’t risk a pivotal outcome to chance. But Queravia—she was a [Gambler]. And—remember her title? She wasn’t just a [Gambler]. She was lucky.”

“You mean in general, Professor? Or with dice…?”

The hair was rising on Wil’s neck. On Umina, her scales were tingling. Niers shook his head.

“No. I mean everything about her was lucky. If there was any scenario where it was up to the odds…sixty percent. Six out of ten. That’s what I think she had.”

“Sixty percent?”

He nodded.

“If every time you flipped a coin, the chances were half and half of it being either side, Queravia had a sixty percent chance of it going her way. And that extended to uncertain matchups. She just had more luck than me. So if we met with two equal units—”

He indicated the pawns.

“Six times out of ten, she won. And sometimes, against impossible odds, her tactics would work. And that created a huge difference over time.”

Slowly, the Titan sat. And now his students could almost see the battle, reflected in his voice, his eyes.

“She was winning. It was like I was playing against luck herself. She’d send in a group of swords to charge a flank I was sure they’d lose and they’d cut through. Arrows would miss taking out a [Captain]. She lost, yes, but she was winning. A unit of pikes would cut through an elite group. And suddenly they were heroes on the battlefield. That was how she fought. She made heroes out of ordinary [Soldiers]. And they leveled with each victory.”

“That’s not fair.”

It flew against everything Umina had been taught. Niers raised an eyebrow.

“Fair? She just had an advantage on her side, Umina. An extra factor called ‘luck’. And she used it.”

The Lizardgirl flushed. Wil just looked at Niers.

“Then how did you beat her, sir?”

“At first I didn’t. I had more soldiers, and resources and she was defensive. But her luck kept equalizing situations. I dare say I was better in pure strategy by a bit. I like to think so, or I would have lost outright. But neither of us could win. We just…hit each other. Again and again. It was a slaughter, but she was slowly overpowering my army. I knew it. So, in desperation, I changed tactics.”

“What did you do?”

Niers looked up. Umina expected a grand plan, a speech, a lesson of strategy. But all he did was shrug.

“I created a scenario where she couldn’t turn the odds. I charged her front, tied up all her forces in an all-or-nothing assault. And in the confusion, I found her command. And I killed her.”

Both Umina and Wil waited. But that was all Niers said. He looked around and filled his cup with the strongest alcohol there was. Wil croaked and reached for his own cup.

“That’s it?”

He drank.

“That’s it. Nothing special. Remember when Cameral got you with an arrow in battle, Umina? He was losing the battle, but when you were removed, your force fell apart. That’s all I did. There’s nothing to teach; I just forced a confrontation and I won.”

It was anticlimactic. Umina saw at once how it made sense. But she knew why the Titan didn’t speak of it. There was something…Niers tossed his cup down bitterly. He looked past them and shook his head.

“I suppose I was the better [Strategist] since the attack on her command worked. It’s a valid tactic. The one that walks away wins. But that’s the irony of it. I teach you all that victory is what counts. But I can’t help but remember that battle with guilt. She outfought me, Umina, Wil. She had just one weakness and I hit it. To this day, I feel like I robbed the world of a truly great mind. I wish there had been another way. But I won. And the King of Destruction’s dreams fell apart there. That’s all there was to it.”

He sat down heavily and Umina and Wil looked at each other. Umina didn’t know what to say. She only had one thought. No, two. The Titan spoke of Queravia with regret. She had been his better, or at least, so he believed. He regretted killing her, because he was alone. Alone but for…her eyes lingered on the chessboard with the ghostly pieces. And then she thought of the second thing.

He had killed her. Himself. She wanted to ask how. But Niers was sitting still. He looked up, smiling faintly, and shook his head.

“I’m melancholy when drunk. Pass me some snacks, Umina?”

She did. Niers broke off a huge chip and began to eat it.

“Enough of that story. You have your answer. It’s not glorious, but it is a secret. The King of Destruction. Wistram—dead gods, I hate the Academy. My scrying orb is warded against them, but I know they have eyes and ears everywhere. Let’s talk of happier things. The night’s not over yet. A few more questions. I get to ask you a few, about you two! And then—well, we’ll have time for one last question, won’t we?”

He smiled. And Umina and Wil felt a surge of apprehension. They looked out the dark windows. It was nearly time.



—-



Niers Astoragon sat alone in his room. On the table, in his chair. The bowls of snacks had been mostly depleted, and he himself felt stretched from all he’d consumed. Still, he wasn’t about to succumb to exhaustion or alcohol or food comas yet. The most important moment of the night had yet to come.

It was a knock on the door. The Titan looked up.

“Enter!”

Wil Kallinad stepped into the room. The young man adjusted his clothing and walked towards his seat. He was more familiar now, but apprehension had returned his nerves. Niers chuckled softly.

“Sit down, lad. We were just talking.”

“Yes, sir. Professor. Excuse me.”

Red-faced, Wil sat. Niers raised an eyebrow.

“Did Umina win the contest, or did you?”

Wil blinked, and then smiled ruefully.

“I won, sir. I wanted to…”

“Get it over with?”

Niers looked kindly at the [Lord]. Wil hunched his shoulders, and then straightened. He met Niers’ eyes.

“Frankly, Professor? Yes. I truly enjoyed our conversation. My question—it’s not fascinating to me. Should I ask you now?”

“Go ahead.”

Niers waited. Wil sat up and took a deep breath. Then another. He came out with it in a rush.

“Professor, what is the most valuable piece of information that will aid the Kallinad family at this moment?”

He looked at Niers. And the Titan stared back. He searched Wil’s unhappy face. And then he reached for his drink. Niers thought better of it at the last second and pushed it away. Then he just looked at Wil.

“That’s your question, is it, Wil Kallinad?”

“Yes sir.”

Wil broke away from Niers’ gaze. The Titan nodded thoughtfully.

“A good question. One that will aid your family. Did your father choose it for you? One of your family members?”

Wil flushed.

“They had suggestions, sir. But I chose it myself. Do you think it’s a wise question?”

“Is that your question?”

Niers laughed softly and waved a hand.

“Sorry. No, to be frank, it’s a fine question. And I’ll answer to the spirit of it—I’m not some malicious monster, Wil. But let’s be honest a moment, before I answer. That’s not really what you wanted to ask, is it?”

“…No, sir. It’s not.”

Niers nodded softly. Wil hesitated, opened his mouth, and then shook his head. He rested his hands on his knees, squeezing them tight.

“I won’t change my mind, though, Professor. I owe my family a debt for the ships and all the effort they spent. Not to mention enrolling me here! I can’t ask another one.”

“I understand.”

The Titan’s voice was sympathetic. He paused.

“Out of curiosity, Wil. If you could have asked, what would have been your question?”

The young man looked up. For a moment Niers thought he wouldn’t reply, but then the words spilled out of him in a rush.

“What is the greatest treasure or mystery of this world that you know of concretely that has yet to be uncovered, Professor? To clarify—how may it be found? What are the dangers? Where would one begin searching?”

He looked up, his eyes shining. And then he glanced down. Niers smiled wryly.

“Multiple questions in one. But the spirit is good.”

“I didn’t workshop the question, sir. I knew I wouldn’t ask.”

The [Lord] mumbled again. It was so at odds to the confidence the young man had shown at Daquin. Niers felt for him.

“Why that question, Wil? If you could have asked?”

“Well, the possibility, sir. I don’t know what the best thing to ask for is. A dungeon? A shipwreck? A…a Dragon’s horde? A riddle with an artifact? But you do. So I thought you would answer me fairly. And I have the means to attempt to find whatever you told me!”

Wil looked up, eagerly. He gestured to his clothes, only a bit stained by the night’s frivolities.

“The Kallinad family is wealthy, Professor. And if I made the request, my father might grant me the resources and even forces I asked for. We have ties to the Order of Seasons and to our kingdom, Pheislant. I could request [Knights] to join an expedition, ask for volunteers among my classmates with the summer break coming up—”

He paused.

“The greatest opportunity of a lifetime. It’s romantic, sir, but even though I’m a [Strategist], I’d like to be a hero out of legends. Someone who found some great treasure, or did something truly amazing. Like Thivian Stormless. I know it’s childish, but…”

He looked at Niers. The Titan sat up.

“Childish? Wil, I had the same dream in that Fraerling village. I wanted to be a hero too. Why do you think I was an adventurer all those years? It’s not childish. It’s a dream.”

Wil nodded, eagerly, looking up, validation surging in his eyes. But then his face fell.

“It’s a risk, though, Professor. And it might not pan out. Even if it does, I could die. If it was just me asking, I would. But my family—”

“You won’t change your question? I could answer it, you know.”

That hurt him. Niers regretted saying it, but he had to ask. Wil hesitated, and then hunched down again.

“No, sir. My duty to House Kallinad comes first.”

“If you’re sure.”

Wil gritted his teeth.

“I am, Professor.”

The Fraerling watched him. And the he nodded.

“You have the right to ask me any question in the world, Wil. Any one at all. You chose, and so, to the best of my knowledge, I’ll reply. What aids House Kallinad the most at this moment? I’m honored they think I would know. The Forgotten Wing Company has no contracts with Terandria and I have visited the continent only a handful of times. However, somewhat ironically, I do know something of value. Worthy of the question.”

Wil looked up. Niers stood, and took his cup. He stared into the clear liquid before turning back to Wil, and his tone was brisk.

“Wil. Your half-brother—no, pardon me, your cousin, Girent, is engaged to a member of House…blast, I’m a bit drunk. House Havrington, isn’t that right?”

“The du Havrington family, yes, Professor.”

Wil sat up, suddenly alert. The Titan nodded.

“What do you think of them? Between us?”

Wil was cautious, but he relaxed as he looked around the Titan’s rooms, one of the most secure in the world.

“I—know some of them. I can’t say I’m fond of their family, Professor. They’re rather…”

“Human-centric? Bigoted? I’ve met them too, Wil. This is just between us.”

“All of the above, sir. But my father wants peace with them. Hence the marriage.”

“And he is marrying a girl. Thirteen. Lady Cassicel Havrington, who would be by bloodline next in line to the position of [Marquis] and fourth by blood to the Havrington’s own line of succession. Correct?”

Wil nodded slowly.

“Yes—yes. It’s just political. She’ll live in our household. Girent isn’t happy about it, but he doesn’t have to live with the du Havringtons, and this is a big concession for them to end the hostilities between our families, so we’re putting a lot into the marriage. What of it?”

Niers took a gulp from his cup. The fiery liquid burned his throat. The Titan sighed.

“It’s a sham. The marriage, I mean. The entire damn thing is fake.”

“What?”

The [Lord] sat up, alarm written over his face. Niers held up a hand.

“Don’t panic! This isn’t an assassination at a wedding. Nothing so dramatic. Rather, it’s political. Messy. Lady Cassicel is not a pure-blood bloodline. In fact, her grandmother was a commoner. By marrying her, you’ll invalidate your offspring unless you induct her as a Kallinad. Either way, it will be a disaster politically.”

“Yes—but how do you know that, sir? That would be a scandal! If we married Girent and they revealed her blood wasn’t pure, it would be a scandal! And we gave them—would they reveal it now? No—in a decade!”

“Perhaps when your father passed or later still. It would be used at the most opportune time to embarrass the Kallinads, perhaps if your family were trying to leverage your ties against the du Havringtons. Either way, they gain a truce and a weapon to use against you.”

Wil nodded. He was aware of the politics, more so than Niers. He sat back, staring.

“This is huge. But how do you know this, Professor? This should be the most secret of information. Only the family of the du Havringtons would know this, unless there was a leak…?”

Niers shook his head.

“Not that I know of. And I only know this information by coincidence. You see, Wil—Lady Cassicel. I knew her grandfather.”

“How?”

Wil leaned over. Niers gestured at him to take a drink. He returned to his seat, speaking crisply.

“It’s not a fantastic story. Back when I was first beginning the Forgotten Wing Company with Foliana, we were looking for officers. Recruiting anyone of talent, really. You know how it goes? Well, one of the people who enlisted was a [Lord]. Human. From Terandria, although he never said where.”

“A Havrington?”

“Yes. Lady Cassicel’s grandfather. We didn’t know, of course. We just called him Bedil. Good old Bedil. He was a [Lord] and he had decent Skills so I entrusted him with the command. He did good work, but he was running from something. He only told me who he was when they caught up with him.”

“Who?”

“His family.”

Niers tipped the glass he was drinking, walked over to the water through the puddle. He looked back at Wil.

“I think he ran away from his family. He had a few artifacts—and it’s not uncommon. He was a decent man, Wil. And his family weren’t. He served with me for six years until they came for him. Then it was [Bounty Hunters] and mercenaries, and Foliana and I found ourselves fighting Terandrians! We didn’t want to give him up, but Bedil gave in when he realized his family wouldn’t stop.”

“Why did they want him back?”

Niers raised his eyebrows.

“Because he was theirs. Because he might embarrass them? Frankly, I think, because they wanted to marry him off. Either way, he gave in. His family took him—they never said who they were and he only ever told me his identity, so I think they assumed we were in the dark. Typical arrogance. But there was just one hitch. Can you imagine what that was?”

Wil was no fool. It took him only a second before his eyes widened.

“He had a child.”

“A wife and a child. Two, actually.”

Niers nodded. He sat down, recalling it.

“He was married, actually. It wasn’t a casual thing. She was—oh, a Lizardwoman.”

“A—”

“Fertility spells. I think both their children were Human. Lucky for them. But Bedil did love her. And when they took him, they brought his family too. Can’t have their bloodlines running about.”

“But this is huge, sir. Other species marrying into a family like the du Havringtons? If it was Kallinad, it would be big enough, but—they covered it up. I never heard of a Lizardwoman in the du Havrington family. But their servants?”

Wil was pacing. Niers nodded.

“I can only speculate. I never heard from Bedil again; I don’t think he was allowed much freedom. If he still lives.”

“He does, Professor. I’ve never seen him except at a few gatherings, but…”

“Good. But regardless, I know what his children looked like. And I can count. He has four heirs, doesn’t he? And his current wife…”

“Human. They’re all from her, or that’s what the bloodlines say. But if two came from his first wife—”

“Then they’re not purebloods. In fact, they share Lizardperson ancestry. Maybe a few unobtrusive scales? Fertility spells have a few quirks. Either way, Lady Cassicel is descended from his firstborn son. So…”

“…All of his descendants are ineligible without having been inducted into the Havrington family. Which they might have been! His wife might well have been inducted by virtue of marriage. But—”

Wil caught himself and shook his head.

“Not in the Du Havrington family. It would be a huge scandal.”

The Fraerling nodded. He looked into his drink and concluded.

“It will be a huge scandal. A blow to the Kallinad family, although not so much I daresay. It really only benefits the Havringtons to invalidate your marriage and end the feud between your families; they’ve been getting the worst of it.”

“Yes. And if they revealed Lady Cassicel’s ancestry—it’ll be a feud again. But it will wreck our reputation as much as theirs. Damn them. This is low. And they’re using Lord Bedil’s children in other marriages! Their bloodlines are pure—no wonder the Havringtons have been accepting marriages for…”

Wil trailed off. It was a foreign political system to Niers, but he knew a backstab when he saw one. And this was a good one, if Wil’s expression was anything to go by. The [Lord] looked at Niers, hesitated, and nodded.

“It—that—it is very valuable, Professor. My father will appreciate the information greatly. Thank you.”

And he would, too. Wil could only imagine how that tidbit would be used. It would wreck the Havringtons if deployed correctly, and save his family some embarrassment. And yet…Wil sagged. Niers watched him.

“You don’t look too happy for someone who’s received the answer to his question.”

The young man couldn’t answer back. He just hung his head. Niers looked at him sympathetically.

“Duty is a hard thing, Wil. I can’t tell you it’s better to live for yourself; it’s something you have to weigh.”

Wil might have nodded. His head jerked and he looked up. He hesitated and bit his lip.

“If I hadn’t asked, would you have used the information yourself, Professor?”

“You mean to threaten the Havringtons or warn House Kallinad? No, Wil. Some secrets you just keep. I have enough trouble without getting into Terandrian politics. You can’t really ever get out once you put a foot in.”

Niers looked amused as he shook his head. That made Wil feel a bit better. Even so, he rose slowly.

“I’ve fulfilled my obligations to my family. The du Havringtons will pay for this. That’s some consolation. Professor, thank you. The question was worth it.”

Just not for him. Niers nodded. He watched Wil excuse himself, walk towards the door. Niers hesitated. And he looked at Foliana and she nodded.

“Wil.”

The young man turned back. Niers paused, and then spoke slowly.

“Your dream of adventure. Don’t give it up. If you look for it, Wil, it will find you. When it does, reach out and grab it.”

Wil hesitated. Then he smiled and ducked his head.

“Thank you, Professor. I will.”

He left. Niers watched him go and then the door shut. He paused, and then sighed, and took another gulp of his drink. One down. Then the Titan of Baleros raised his voice.

“Umina?”



—-



Umina was nervous. Beyond nervous. Terrified, but so scared she was calm. She’d seen Wil leave, looking unhappy and relieved. Now it was her turn. Umina walked into the room. She sat down at the Titan’s bidding, and looked at him.

“Um. You answered Wil’s question, Professor?”

“I believe I did. Whether it is to his satisfaction, we will see. I can’t speak to you of it, but he has his answer.”

The Fraerling’s voice was neutral. Umina nodded, squirming. She looked towards the door as it closed. She’d left it open. Niers waved a hand.

“Automatically closing doors. Handy for Fraerlings.”

“Sorry, Professor. Um—I know this is my chance to ask my question. But—may I ask something before that?”

“Certainly.”

He smiled at her. Reassured, Umina took a breath. She hesitated, but she had been able to talk to Niers this night. So it was only with a bit of difficulty she spoke.

“I—um, Professor, this is a bit silly. But I wanted to ask about me. As a student.”

Niers’ eyes focused slightly.

“Go on.”

“I—am I special, Professor? Do I stand out? As a student?”

The question exited Umina in a rush. The Titan blinked. He sat back slowly, as she looked at him. Then he smiled fondly.

“That’s an odd question. Of course you stand out! I’ve never had a student pop out of the ground covered in…sewer waste during my games! That was a surprise! You beat your fellow students!”

“Yes sir. But that was luck as much as strategy. I’m talking about me as a student.”

The Titan shrugged lightly. Umina watched him, her tail curled up.

“You’re gifted, sharp—you come up with the most unorthodox solutions most often, which is what I like to see. Of course you’re special!”

“Professor.”

The Fraerling paused. Umina looked at him and spoke slowly.

“I think you’re lying to me. Or—telling half-truths. I need to know. What if I made it my question, Professor? Honestly, am I unique?”

Niers looked at her. Really looked at Umina. And she felt a pit in her stomach. She’d admired him. She wanted to be like him. She’d tried her best to excel, to be worthy of the legend of her teacher. So she knew the answer when he covered up his reply with his praise. And she knew the answer before he spoke now.

“No.”

The word hit Umina like a brick. Niers sat up. He looked at her. A bit sadly.

“You did ask. And if you made it our question, Umina, I would say…no. Do you stand out? Yes. But are you…”

“Special?”

She looked at him. Niers shook his head slowly.

“I’m sorry. But if you’re asking if I see something I haven’t seen before? I don’t. I see a brilliant young [Strategist], Umina. But you have to understand. I taught Perorn, Umina. Perorn, Tulm—all of them. They were all my best students. And you know what? I didn’t even think they were the best at the time.”

“You didn’t?”

The Professor sat back. He looked backwards and shook his head.

“Some of them stood out, like Tulm. Most surprised me. I can remember students I thought would change the world, replace me, who died. Or just never became anything. Some of them were so gifted I couldn’t believe it. Others had special talents, Skills, classes. That made them ‘special’. If you want to know if I see that spark—”

He shook his head. Umina bit her lip. She wasn’t going to cry. Niers was speaking to her like an adult, not a child. He looked up, kindly, but seriously.

“I’m sorry to tell you like that. But if you were asking if I saw a great spark in you—I don’t. And overconfidence—”

“—Kills. I know, Professor.”

Did you have to ask? His gaze looked pained. Umina only dipped her head once. She’d wanted to know. It was a bitter truth. It had soured the moment. After a moment, Niers sighed.

“Umina—”

“It’s fine, Professor. Was—was that my question?”

“No. No, it wasn’t. Ask. By all means.”

He shook his head firmly. That relieved Umina. She sat up. And he looked at her.

“You have any question in the world, Umina. Any one within my power. Ask.”

She nodded. She looked him in the eye. And she channeled her pain, her disappointment, into a question that was the best she could ask.

“Professor, what is the identity of your mysterious chess opponent?”

Niers Astoragon blinked. He stared at Umina. And she rejoiced in the surprise on his face. He stared at her, smiled, and then grew serious. He shook his head.

“Ask me another question, Umina. Please.”

“That was my question, Professor. Can’t you answer it?”

She challenged him, shaking with nerves. The Titan laughed softly. He raked a hand through his hair.

“I’d forgotten there was a question I could be asked that would bother me! Sudden developments—to answer you, Umina. No. I don’t know for certain. I have a guess. And I could tell you a number of things. But let me speak.”

He held up a hand, forestalling Umina. The Titan got up, looked at her.

“I know what I promised. But I don’t want to tell you. I—sometimes I advise students on what question they should ask. Or guide them to the right answer. I’m doing the same now. Umina, ask me where some buried treasure is. I do actually know a cache or two. Ask me about something else. This answer won’t bring you anything of benefit, I promise you.”

“But it’s my question. Why don’t you want to answer it?”

The Lizardgirl persisted. Niers sighed again.

“It’s dangerous. Some questions my students have asked in this room, Umina? They’ve gotten them killed. Others are safer. This question? It’s very dangerous.”

“Why? Because of who your opponent is?”

She was fishing. Niers ignored her question.

“It’s a dangerous question because I’ll know that you know. And you might find yourself on the board against the deadliest of opponents. It touches my affairs, Umina. And that’s a precarious spot to be in, even if I’m trying to protect you. What would you do with the information? Use it? Sell it? Either way, you put a target on your back.”

That was true. But Umina was certain.

“I want to know, Professor. But if you want me to, I’ll ask another one.”

“Yes! Go on. Please.”

Niers looked relieved. Umina stared him right in the eye. Her neck-frills opened a bit. She felt powerful in this moment. She’d bothered the Titan, the Professor. Now she asked the second question on her mind.

“Okay then, Professor. Then here’s my second question. What was the answer to the question Tulm the Mithril was going to ask you if he won at Daquin?”

This time, the pause was even longer. Niers looked up at Umina. And she saw his indecision. At last, he turned and reached for his cup. He took a long drink, and then turned and grinned at her.

“Clever. I don’t want to answer that one either.”

“Really? Are these questions so hard, Professor?”

Umina almost felt like she was teasing him. It was a heady feeling. Niers waved one hand, shaking his head.

“Honestly? Yes, Umina. Not many of my students ask questions that are so…dangerous. It’s actually hard to ask that kind of question. But these two secrets?”

He waved a hand.

“Congratulations. Many of my students ask about secrets. Personal ones, like the identity of a father. The location of something. The truth about…well, I can’t say. And I find it for them, or I tell them. It’s students like you, who don’t have anything they want that trouble me. Are you sure I can’t offer you a question about gold? Personal power? An artifact?”

He looked at her hopelessly. Because he knew her, and he knew the answer before Umina shook her head. She smiled at him, delighting in the moment.

“One or the other, Professor. A classic chess fork.”

He blew out his cheeks.

“Did I hurt your feelings that much earlier?”

She nearly laughed at him.

“No, Professor. I’m just your student, and I chose the two questions I thought would bother you most in the world. Because they’re the most valuable to me.”

He laughed. And there was pride in that laughter. Umina laughed too. And her hurt heart soothed. She wasn’t special. And she had known that. She had wanted to be—just like Wil wanted to be a hero. But she was ordinary. And yet, this ordinary student had the Titan in a trap.

It was a moment she’d remember forever. Niers Astoragon saluted Umina with his mug and drained it. He stared at her, weighing both questions. She didn’t know which was worth more. But he did. And his decision told her just as much about the invisible weight of each question.

At last, Niers Astoragon spoke. He stepped forwards and Umina lowered her head. Niers smiled, sighed, and shrugged. As if to say, ‘what can you do’? Umina wished she’d asked him if he was really cursed by killing Queravia. But then he whispered towards her earhole.

“Alright. Listen carefully. Because I will only ever say this once. The answer to…”



—-



Later. Umina walked through the streets of Elvallian. It was close to dawn; she’d been speaking with the Professor and Wil all night. And her question had come as the next day began. She was drunk, and her head was spinning. She was upset too, as she stumbled down the street. Regrets—oh, they piled on her.

She had her answer. But it was confusing. And it was—well, Umina felt like she’d made a mistake. She should have asked for gold, or the location of a magical artifact. Or made him tell her about his chess partner. That way Umina would at least be the most popular student in the academy…for months! Instead, all she had was a secret that belonged to someone else.

It was a big secret. Yes. But it put her in danger. Niers had bid Umina good night and she’d seen the worry in his eyes. For her. Not-special Umina. Why had she asked that? It was just—she’d always wanted to know—

It hurt. Umina stumbled into her apartment after eight tries. The door hadn’t been locked. She looked up and heard an exclamation.

“Umina!”

The Lizardgirl lurched backwards. But it was only Marian. The Centauress got up from where she’d been resting.

“It’s so late! Are you drunk?”

“Maybe.”

Umina mumbled. Marian guided to her to her bed, fishing for a water canteen.

“You were out for ages! Wil got back—everyone’s pestering him and he says the Professor talked! About his past!”

“We did. And then we got our questions answered. Just like promised.”

Marian paused. She looked at Umina and the Lizardgirl saw her friend bite her lip.

“You don’t look happy. Was it something bad?”

“Maybe? I don’t know. It’s not that, Marian. I asked the Professor a question before that. I asked him—”

Umina broke off. But Marian was looking at her and the words spilled forth.

“I wanted to ask if I was, you know, special—”

Marian’s face fell. She trotted over and sank to her knees. Her upper body hugged Umina.

“Oh, Umina. You silly little lizard! Why’d you do that?”

That brought on the tears at last. She’d held them so well in the Titan’s office. Now though, with Marian hugging her, Umina let them spill out. That was the thing about good friends. Umina didn’t have to speak. She just let Marian hug her as she sniffled into her friend’s shirt. The Centauress sighed.

“I get it. I understand, Umina. Everyone wants to know. I mean, Yerranola, Feshi—I bet they’re curious too. But there’s a difference between knowing and knowing. Why did you ask?”

“I don’t know! But I had to ask! I wanted to be, Marian. And I was drunk and—he said no.”

Marian stroked Umina’s head softly.

“It’s okay. It’s okay, Umina. You had to know—but you knew the answer. We all do!”

Umina stiffened. The words hurt. But Marian was looking at her and Umina couldn’t escape the obvious. She sniffed. It was true. Look at Perorn! Or Tulm! It had been arrogance that made her think she was special, someone Niers hadn’t ever seen before. It was right that he’d taught her. Arrogance killed. But Marian was going on, patting Umina on the back.

“And it’d never work out, anyways. I mean, I had a huge crush on the Professor the first year, but when you think about it—his age is the least of the problems. He’s a teacher, we’re students. And Fraerlings just can’t have relationships with other species. It’s just unrealistic to assume…what?”

Umina stared up at her. The Centauress hesitated. Slowly, Umina shook her head.

“Marian. I asked him if I was a special student. If I stood out from the rest! What did you think I asked?”

The Centauress froze. Then she scrambled to her hooves. Suddenly, Marian was bright red. She stammered.

“Me? Nothing! That’s what I said! You’re not a special student! Of course you’re not! That’s hubris! I never—you didn’t hear—that’s a secret, understand? I’ve gotta go!”

She looked around, and then practically galloped out of Umina’s room. The Lizardgirl stared at the open door, listening to Marian clatter down the incline. She laughed, shakily, and wiped at her tears.

“Now that’s a secret.”

She felt calmer now, after crying a bit. And Umina did regret asking that question. It was stupid vanity. She crawled into bed. She shouldn’t have asked. But she could only add that to a list of her mistakes she’d remember forever.

And the night had been glorious. She still remembered the Titan’s face. Umina comforted herself with that. She had a secret, an answer to a question even one of the Titan’s best students couldn’t figure out. She had that.

The Lizardgirl wiped at her running nostrils and curled up into a ball in her covers to make herself feel better. As if she was in the very egg she’d hatched from. It was childish, but it made her feel better.

And as the warm coverlet engulfed her, providing a shield from the world, Umina thought. She remembered the Titan’s words. His answer. It was simple. Not like Wil’s long answer.

“The answer to Tulm’s question is this. What I would have said, verbatim: ‘No, you idiot. You got a young one. There are more. Perhaps on Baleros, but I know of two on Izril. They walk among us. Leave them alone.’”



—-



“Leave them alone.”

Niers Astoragon sat in his room after Umina had left. He was drunk, but Fraerling metabolisms were so fast that he was sobering up again. He still had the remnants of his last drink, so he picked it up.

The Titan sighed as he downed the fiery remnants of his cup. Foliana was probably going to kill him for this. But a promise was a promise. He stood in front of the ajar door, staring at the light permeating into his room. He’d have to close the door too. He raised the empty cup.

“Umina. If you asked me now—I’d have to say yes. I’ll remember your question. Of all my students, you’ve been the hardest to predict. Two hard questions. A fork in the road. One answer might lead to war. The other? An entire world, perhaps.”

He shook his head. And he’d answered her. Niers thought of Tulm. He scowled. What might happen? What might Umina do with the information? But then he laughed.

“Change! It’s always hard! And to protect you—”

He stumbled over to the magical chessboard, staring at it. Then at the other board he’d had commissioned. The Go stones were neatly organized, but they hadn’t moved. Niers sat down, drunk, and stared at the board.

“I need to meet you soon. Let me find these Humans first. These children. Then—who are you? Male? Female? Drake? Human?”

He thought of the young woman. Of the inn. Liscor. The word, the knowledge burned in his mind. But he had work to do. If he left, his company might fall apart. It all hung on him. The Titan bowed his head.

“Responsibilities? Dead gods, I’m old. How did I ever get…?”

He looked around. The Titan wandered from bowl to bowl, looking for his cup. And then he realized it was in his hand. He filled it, and then stomped over to his wardrobe. His mirror. He stared into it, looking into his worn face. He toasted himself silently.

“You’re too old to think of romance, you idiot! Too old by decades! And too small. Look at you! You’re afraid of the change you’re trying to bring about! What will happen next? Better something than anything! You’re so old! But I want to be young forever!”

Niers Astoragon scowled. Then he kicked the mirror. He shook his head. And then, finally, he laughed. He raised the mug, drinking, and staring into the mirror, remembering a much younger face, dreaming of the future.

It still felt like yesterday.



—-



Umina lay there in bed. Puzzling it over. She was still drunk, but the answer was obvious. It sank into her. Things she knew about Tulm. Reasons why he would ask a question with such a curious response. It was a mark of how drunk she was that it took her a few minutes to figure it out.

Who was Tulm? She didn’t know too much, but she knew the obvious. [Strategist]. Mithril. Dullahan. Iron Vanguard’s second-in-command. And there was that legend about him. The one people said was true.

And like that, the pieces fell into place. Umina sat up. Her eyes went wide. She breathed a word into the night, the name that legends were made of.

“Dragons.”



—-



Dragons. A laughing Titan. Mystery and past and conversations and happiness and bittersweet tears. But that wasn’t the end of the night. There was one last thing.

Wil Kallinad thought it was over. He’d fended off his friends, and he was in his rooms, sobering up, preparing a [Message] of the highest confidentiality to his father. He was staring at the quill and ink drying on the tip. Unhappy, but he had his answer and there was some peace in it. Regrets? The drink was making it hard to push them away. Foliana stood behind him.

But it was over. Right up until it wasn’t. Wil sighed, reached over to dip his quill in the ink—

And Foliana cleared her throat. Wil looked up. Had he heard…?

He turned around. And Foliana was there, staring at him. Wil hesitated. Something was—he focused, blearily. He looked at Foliana. And she stared back.

“Hello.”

And then she was there. Suddenly, without warning Foliana was there. It wasn’t that she had appeared or magically become not-invisible. It was just that Wil realized she had been standing next to him, sniffing his ink pot and peering at his letter the entire time. He turned, stared at her.

Then he screamed. Foliana immediately slapped him. The furry paw turned Wil’s head. She raised a finger.

“Shh. It’s late.”

“Lady Foliana! What are you—”

“I have something for you.”

Wil tried to scramble out of his seat. Foliana was reaching for something. A scroll. She unfurled it, frowned at the contents. And began to read it silently.

The [Lord] was used to magical scrolls. He saw the flash as the magical writing containing the spell lit up. His warning pendant began to shake, but it was too late. He opened his mouth.

“Lady Foliana! What are you—”

“[Erase Memory].”

Foliana’s hands glowed with a pale nimbus as the scroll turned to dust in her hands. She reached out, her eyes glowing with magic and flicked Wil on the head. His mind went blank. He stumbled back, and she neatly snatched the paper and ink he’d been writing on. She peered at it, and then began to eat it, piece by piece.

“What? Bu—”

Wil was stunned. He stared at Foliana. What had she done? She’d erased—frantically, he tried to recall his life’s details. And then today’s events. He remembered it all! At least, he thought he did. He remembered this morning, his lesson, even going to the Professor’s office with Umina. And the conversation about Niers’ past. But the question—

The young man went pale. He couldn’t remember! He could remember asking the Professor his question, remember the Titan walking back and forth, Wil’s own reactions and emotions, but the answer? It eluded him! Wil stared at Foliana. She was eating his message to his father!

“Lady Foliana! What did you do?”

“Hm. Erase your memory. Wasn’t it obvious?”

The Squirrel Beastkin [Rogue] looked at Wil. He was shaking.

“That was my answer to the Professor’s question! Why did—was it too great a secret? Why did you take it from me?”

His mind was a jumble. Was it something she had done herself? Her decision, overriding Niers’? Or—paranoia gripped Wil. Was this how the Titan safeguarded his secrets?

Foliana swallowed the rest of the paper. She looked at Wil as he tensed, aware she could kill him without any effort. She reached into her pocket—she was wearing clothing. Rather nice clothing, but all in dark grey. She pulled out a piece of paper, folded four times, and handed it to Wil.

“Mm. Here. Read this. It will explain.”

Then she turned and walked out of his room. Wil stared at Foliana’s bushy tail as the Squirrel-woman opened the door, nearly gave Venaz a heart-attack, and hopped off the balcony. Wil listened to Venaz shouting incoherently, and then at the bit of paper in his hands.

He felt a premonition. A stirring on his skin. His hands shook so hard he could barely unfold the paper. But then he looked at it.

It was a short missive. But it changed everything. Wil read it, rubbed at his eyes, and then read it again. In her room, Umina sat in silence, wondering, and the world changed for her. For Wil, it lit up. And he smiled and laughed.



Dear Wil,

A question asked on someone else’s behalf is no real question. Even one for family’s sake is a poor equal to the true desire I saw bursting out of you. If your father asks, you may direct his inquiries to me.

As to your truest question, and your little discussion in your bar, I don’t actually know the location of the most infamous shipwrecks like the Laleday’s Triumph with the Mooncaller’s Quiver, for instance. Even I would spare no effort to grab such an artifact.

However, I am aware of a number of sea-based locations that the Forgotten Wing company have never been able to explore thanks to those damn Dullahans and their sea superiority. Each one is a credible shipwreck or site where I am convinced something of value lurks, but has never been explored due to depth or danger. See the attached list.



Sincerely,

–Niers Astoragon



PS: Oh, and when you form a crew, try to pick a trustworthy [Captain], would you? [Storm Sailors] can be just as bad as [Pirates]. Also, try to be back with whichever classmates you take before the summer break ends.





6.56


The inn was dark when the traveller first arrived. No—not traveller. She was, in fact, a Gnoll cub. She had white fur. Her name was Mrsha.

This was her home. But she had been away from home. Just for a little bit. And she had come back just now. But, for however short her absence had been—a lot could happen while you were away.

The Gnoll knew it before she pushed the door open to the inn. She paused, cautiously standing on two legs to push at the handle. She sniffed the air. And then, slowly, she swung the door open.

The first thing that greeted Mrsha was an empty inn. It was day, but the inn was unnaturally still. Too quiet. The Gnoll cub dropped to all fours and hesitated.

Where were the guests? The staff? It was…she sniffed the air again.

No dream. But she could see nothing but shadows in the inn. Then, as she padded inside and the door swung closed through no help of her own, she saw the red.

Red. Drops of crimson on the floors. Overturned tables. Broken chairs. Mrsha stared at the destruction. Then, slowly, she looked forwards and saw her.

There was a body lying amid the worst of the destruction. Something had hit a table hard enough to split it. And lying there, was a familiar person. In the center of the red.

Something terrible had happened. Mrsha froze. Then she slowly moved forwards. She saw Erin Solstice, lying in the splinters of wood. Surrounded by liquid.

Erin?

A lot could happen while you were away. Mrsha stopped. Erin was breathing. But faintly. The Gnoll, eyes wide, looking left to right, still sniffing the air, stepped closer. Erin didn’t move. Her eyes were closed. Mrsha halted a few feet from her. She glanced around again and then patted the floor with one paw.

It made a faint sound. But she could not speak. Erin didn’t move. Mrsha looked around again. But the shadows were all she saw. She looked at Erin. Her fur was rising. Mrsha hesitated. Then she moved forwards. Her paws trailed in the red. She looked down. And then slowly, eyes wide. She reached out, for Erin’s face—

“Ugblaagh!”

Erin came to life and screamed wildly while her hands flew up. Mrsha leapt away and Erin lunged. Her arms encircled the Gnoll and caught Mrsha as she fled for the door. Laughing, Erin scooped her up. Mrsha glared up at Erin and began licking the red liquid on Erin’s face. The [Innkeeper] started giggling.

“Gotcha! Well, how scary was it, Mrsha? Hey! Hey, that tickles!”

The lights came on. Embers flared in the fireplace, and the inn’s patrons emerged from their hiding spots, from behind the curtains of the [Grand Theatre] at the other end of the common room, the kitchen, the staircase—Lyonette walked out of the kitchen and put her hands on her hips.

“Well?”

Erin set Mrsha down. Reproachfully, the Gnoll stared up at her. Then she held up her paws and curled up a few fingers. Erin’s face fell.

“What? Six outta ten! But I was such a good actor!”

Laughter. Some of the guests who’d come out of hiding were chuckling. Rufelt, the Gnoll [Bartender] of Tails and Scales, shook his head as he stood up.

“I believe she smelled all of us, Erin. If you want to fool a Gnoll for your—house of horrors—you’ll have to block our noses.”

“And ears and eyes. She could also tell you were breathing, Erin. And that it was sauce on you, not blood.”

“Well—I know that! But even for a bit, isn’t the illusion good?”

“Better actual illusion magic or actual blood. I’m afraid it won’t work. Gnolls can smell as fast as you can see. You’ll never get them this way.”

Erin threw up her hands as Ishkr walked over with a wet towel. She wiped herself off, grumbling and letting Mrsha lick more tomato sauce off her face.

“Well, that’s a bust. Back to the drawing board! At least we got Hawk.”

“That wasn’t funny! I was about to raise the alarm! And if you were a second slower I would have! Watch Captain Zevara would have burnt me to ash for a false alarm!”

The Rabbit Beastkin complained as he clambered out from behind an overturned table. Mrsha watched as Erin pointed a finger and the artfully broken table and chairs reassembled.

“Don’t worry, Hawk. Captain Zevara hates me anyways.”

“I wonder why. Can I have a carrot cake now?”

“Sure! Carrot cake for everyone!”

Only Hawk and Mrsha cheered. The rest of Erin’s guests who’d taken part in her haunted house idea as participants or unwilling test subjects looked dubious. A Drake regular with half a tail—it had been severed and was now a stump only a few feet long—raised his claw.

“Does it taste like carrots?”

“That’s the best part! It only tastes sort of like carrots. It’s mostly like sugar!”

The Drake brightened up.

“Alright then! On the house?”

“No—”

“Absolutely! It’s one cake, Lyonette.”

Erin waved at Ishkr. He looked at Lyonette first. Erin met Lyonette’s eyes pleadingly and held Mrsha up to add the silent appeal. The [Princess] sighed.

“Fine.”

“Alright!”

Everyone cheered that. Mrsha righted the table with Hawk’s help. Or rather, she sat on the table while the Rabbit Courier lifted it with one hand and clung to the edge, defying gravity and giggling silently. He had to smile.

The Wandering Inn was alive and well. Erin laughed as Ishkr came out of the kitchen with a carrot cake. Rufelt sniffed at the cake, noting the tiny carrots Erin had drawn on top.

“Hm. Looks sort of like the other ones.”

“Yeah, except when I cut it—tada! Orange! And you can see bits of carrots.”

“Ooh! Me first! Me first!”

Relc hurried into line, pushing people out of the way. He lifted Ceria up and dropped her to one side. The half-Elf protested of course, as did the two Gnolls and the half-tailed Drake veteran, but Relc simply pushed and they slid. He stopped as Mrsha cannonballed into one shin and a furry hand stopped him on the chest.

“Oh no you don’t. I asked, and I’m getting my cake after that heart attack.”

“Hey Hawk! Let me just get by you. I’ll finish my cake so fast you won’t even notice—”

The two jostled for position as Erin, rolling her eyes, sliced up the cake. Hawk was actually strong enough to push Relc, and they were so quick that it looked like a blur as they spun, pivoted, and ‘gently’ rammed each other out of the way.

“Thin slices because it’s for everyone. It’s extra healthy. Less sugar—although it tastes great! And carrot, which is good for the eyes and stuff. I didn’t even frost it all.”

“But that’s the best part!”

Relc complained. He and Hawk reached for the plate. Erin narrowed her eyes.

“Stop fighting!”

“Yeah! Get out of the way, you two!”

“Shut it whoever said that! I’m a Senior Guardsman and the first guest of this inn! I deserve first slice! Plus, that one’s the biggest.”

Erin made a face. She’d made the first slice biggest by accident by almost twice as much as the others. Hawk smiled.

“I’m not fighting with Relc, Miss Solstice. I’m just protesting a bully—”

“I’m just overeager for cake! It’s an addiction!”

Mrsha waved her paws between the two as they shoved around her. Erin sighed. Then she had a wicked idea. She turned and lifted the plate and cake like a discus.

“You want it?”

“Erin—”

Lyonette raised her voice warning, but it was too late. Relc and Hawk turned as Erin’s arm shot out.

“Go get it!”

Patrons ducked or swore as Erin threw the plate down the length of the [Grand Theatre]. It had far to go—the expanded common room could hold hundreds of people very comfortably and Erin had thrown the plate and cake far enough to hit the [Actors] on stage at the back of the room.

But it never made it that far. Hawk and Relc jumped out of line and the plate sailed ten feet before Hawk zipped past Relc and caught the plate. He swore—he’d been just a step behind.

“Hey! The big slice is mine!”

“Eat my tail, Relc!”

Hawk laughed and he came to a stop, already chewing down a bite on a fork. Relc glared at him.

“You suck.”

“I’m a Courier. Even the Gecko of Liscor can’t beat these legs.”

Relc opened his mouth, looked around, and made a strangled sound.

“Jerk! Hey! I’m at the front! Excuse me! Excuse me.”

Erin rolled her eyes, but she doled out the portions of cake to all of her guests. There were only about forty people in her inn at the moment. Put another way, there were forty people in the inn, and she was lucky not all wanted cake. Mrsha scarfed hers before Rufelt had even tasted his, and she peered over the table at his plate, licking crumbs out of her fur.

“Hm. This does taste different! I quite like it.”

Rufelt smiled as he tasted the carrot cake. Erin smiled.

“Whaddya think? Hawk? Good or not?”

The Courier smiled. He gave Erin a thumbs-up as he savored his last bite.

“I like it! How much for one?”

“Um, eight silver. Frosting runs you an extra four, but I can do any decoration you like.”

Rufelt’s brows shot up.

“Half a gold piece for a cake? Pricey.”

“Well—it’s unique to my inn for now. And it costs four to six silver for the ingredients alone depending on how much some of the stuff is. Two silver’s fair! Plus, Lyonette would kill me if I charged five.”

“Oh, absolutely not five. Seven or six would be fairer.”

The [Bartender] remarked thoughtfully. Hawk shook his head.

“I don’t care if it’s nine so long as it’s not an entire gold piece. And I’ll pay for frosting. How about…oh, can I make it a name?”

“Ooh. Got someone in mind?”

“Absolutely. I want to have something made of carrots that a date can like. Can you write Asheli? That’s ‘ash’ plus ‘e’, ‘l’, ‘i‘…”

Erin nodded. Ishkr was scribbling down the order on a quill with ink near the kitchen.

“It’s all on the order log! I’ll have it by tomorrow morning. You want hearts?”

Relc sniggered.

“Absolutely.”

Hawk was unembarrassed. He fished around in his jerkin pockets and came up with a glint of gold. Mrsha looked at it, deeply impressed.

“Can you change this?”

“Just one second! And would you like something else to drink? To eat?”

Moved by the speed of glitter, Lyonette was there and giving Hawk his change. He paused, thoughtfully.

“You know, Erin mentioned she’d made carrot bread. And carrot noodles…”

“Oh, the special orders? We can serve you a sample! Ishkr, bring out the two special dishes and some bowls! Free to everyone who wants to try it!”

Another cheer. Erin might have been surprised by Lyonette’s sudden generosity, but the glint in the [Princess]’s eyes was all avarice. Rufelt leaned on the table as Mrsha grabbed her plate.

“No licking! You can have some of the pasta or bread, but not too much!”

Erin scolded the Gnoll cub. Mrsha sighed. Rufelt laughed. He leaned over the table as Ishkr trotted into the kitchen to boil said pasta and heat up the bread. You couldn’t have carrot bread without it being warm and having butter, after all! He nodded at the patrons.

“Nice touch your assistant has there. Miss Lyonette knows how to work a crowd. Serve them food and have them buy drinks! Then again, Hawk alone will more than make up for the free food. He’ll pay anything to fix his carrot addiction. I’m a bit worried about him, to be honest.”

“Yeah. I mean, isn’t it a stereotype that rabbits like carrots? They don’t actually love it. It’s like—not good to feed them that all the time, right?”

“I uh, don’t know about stereotypes unless you’re intimately familiar with the Rabbit Beastkin tribe. Or…raising rabbits? I think it just tastes really good to Hawk. Like meat to Gnolls. Or fruits and Garuda. How do you make carrot noodles, by the way? Puree them and make a dough with some egg?”

Rufelt looked amused. Erin smiled with delight.

“Exactly! How did you know?”

“You don’t marry a [Chef] without picking up some tricks. By the way, she’ll be stealing that carrot cake as soon as I tell her about it.”

“You [Thief]!”

Erin good-naturedly wagged a finger. Rufelt grinned, exposing all his teeth as Lyonette came out with a steaming slice of buttered bread for Hawk, not Relc. The Rabbit-man perked up as he saw it was indeed carrot-based. Rufelt grinned totally unapologetically.

“Fair’s fair. Hawk’s a customer at Tails and Scales. We have to cater to his tastes! I can’t believe Lasica didn’t think of it—but then, she’s done all kinds of carrot-based dishes for him before.”

“Fancy stuff? Anything I can copy?”

“If you liked honey roasted carrots, or braising them in a stew—she could tell you all the ones she’s done for him. Between you and me, I think Hawk actually lays off the carrots if he likes someone. It’s just that he wants to meet someone who’ll eat some carrots among the Drakes he dates, so this is how he weeds them out.”

“Ooh, gotcha.”

Erin watched as Lyonette showed Hawk a tidy bundle of the carrot noodles she’d made and the Courier obligingly pulled out more coins. Erin smiled. It was another ordinary day. In fact, this might be a small record for how peaceful it had been of late. Aside from excitement worldwide, Erin hadn’t done anything crazy since Esthelm.

And even that had been fairly uncrazy by her standards. This haunted house idea was the biggest thing so far. Erin didn’t know why she’d thought of it—it wasn’t near October! But she’d missed it last year and it was a fun concept.

“So, where’s Lasica?”

Rufelt looked up and shrugged.

“Shopping for tonight. I’m free.”

“You’re not joined at the hip?”

He snorted.

“Hardly! You have to give a lovely lady like Lasica time to herself. That’s how the relationship works, Erin.”

“Ooh. Gotcha. Advice from an expert! I’m not in on the dating scene right yet.”

“No? A nice young Human girl like you doesn’t have Gnolls and Drakes coming by?”

Erin coughed, turning red at Rufelt’s smile. He was better at teasing than she was! He and Lasica often visited the inn, despite the issue of teleporting from Pallass.

“Well, I mean, there was this thing with this Drake—and uh, Goblins. Word got around. But I’m not super into dating even when I was home. I had a boyfriend once—”

Thump. Mrsha had fallen off the table. Rufelt raised his eyebrows, not seeing Lyonette, Relc, Ceria, Drassi, even Ishkr all turn and look at Erin. She waved it off, blushing.

“Just for a bit. It’s hard. Dating, you know? I like chess more. Um—so about the haunted house! Thoughts?”

Rufelt obligingly changed the subject, ignoring the blatant curiosity from everyone else. He frowned.

“I think it needs work, honestly. You can’t fool a Gnoll with illusions or with poor tricks. Even if you got say, cow’s blood, we can smell the difference.”

“Darn your noses!”

Erin raised a fist and shook it comically. Mrsha climbed up and sat smugly next to the two adults. Rufelt grinned.

“On the other hand, it’s a fun idea. A house where you get scared on purpose? Children might enjoy it. It beats Liscor’s actual terrors. But why are you so insistent on trying to make one?”

“Well—Temile wanted to know if I had any more plays and stuff. And I don’t. Plus, I’ve run out of new foods! At least, any really new stuff. This is easier!”

Erin spread her arms, shrugging. Rufelt raised both brows.

“And you’re not making magical foods? Lasica said she could help you with that.”

“That’s a lotta work! Ingredients are expensive, you can burn a hole right through your cauldron and it might, you know, do something. And I’ve been trying to keep it calm lately. Haunted houses? That’s silly fun! Just what I need!”

Erin waved her hands vaguely. Rufelt nodded.

“But what made you think of it now? It’s such a strange idea.”

He was giving Erin a searching look, one she was familiar with. The young woman looked blank.

“I dunno. Sometimes you just have weird thoughts. Like—do you ever wonder if Selphids get itchy?”

The Gnoll [Bartender] had to process that question. He opened his mouth.

“I—well, no. But I suppose that explains that.”

“Yeah. Hey, let me talk to Temile. Be one sec!”

Erin waited a beat, and then turned across the inn. On stage, the Players of Celum—at least, the second-stringers who were making up the troupe still working from Celum were rehearsing for their daily plays. Erin got up and walked over to them. As she did, she navigated down the long room. And everyone she met along the way she knew.

“Hi there, Fleaears! What’s up, Menolit? Like the noodles? Awesome! Numbtongue! Want some bread? No? Okay!”

A Gnoll, the Drake [Veteran] with the missing tail, and the Hobgoblin all looked up from their respective tables. Fleaears, who did not currently have fleas, grinned at Erin.

“Erin.”

“Miss Solstice.”

Menolit nodded to Erin, smiling. He had a scar that had blasted all the scales clear around his neck and a pock mark under one eye along with his missing tail. For all that, he wasn’t too old—he was most certainly retired, though. At least from the army. Erin grinned at him.

“Like the pasta?”

“I might bring some back for the family. Can I get an order for tonight? Regular pasta works, actually. Just put some of those spicy meatballs in and some of the good sauce. Cheese? My kids love it.”

“Alfredo and spicy meatballs! On the order!”

Ishkr came by and obligingly noted down the details. It was a new system at the inn. Lyonette was making changes and Erin loved this one. Instead of having her in the kitchen all the time, there was a running ‘meal order’ system whereby patrons could request a dish for this night, tomorrow, or other dates and Erin would know what to cook. It worked since she was still the inn’s only [Cook]—for now. She passed by Menolit and came to a Hobgoblin who’d declined to eat cake or the other carrot-based foods.

“Hey Numbtongue, how’s it going?”

“Good.”

The Hobgoblin was absently reading a book. He looked up and Erin was impressed by how far he’d gotten already. She knew Numbtongue could read of course, but that fluently? Then again, maybe it was the other Goblin who he could call upon now.

Changes to the inn. Now there was a [Goblin Soulbard] in the inn along with a [Princess], both of whom had powers they could use only a few times a day. It meant that for a minute, Numbtongue could be Pyrite. He often shared meals with the other Hobgoblin—or used him when mining in the mountains. Or sometimes, Pyrite just appeared, to sit for a minute, or enjoy a drink.

It was sad and kind and Erin had no idea what to make of it entirely. On the other hand, she knew exactly how to feel about Lyonette and that was jealously.

“[Flawless Attempt]—done!”

Lyonette came out of the kitchen with a nearly-perfectly done veggie burger, courtesy of Erin’s recipe, but the product of Lyonette’s Skill. It wasn’t perfect—Erin had seen Lasica, a real [Chef] making food in an instant and of higher quality than should have been strictly possible with her Skills.

Still, Erin would have wagered this was as good as any regular cook’s best efforts from Earth! It wasn’t perfect, again, but it was the best attempt Lyonette could conceivably do, which meant she had made a darn good burger!

Out of veggies. The Gnolls sniffed the air once and shook their heads. The Drakes looked equally disgusted, but Hawk looked delighted.

“This is great! I’m coming back to this inn more often! It’s hard to find a place besides Tails and Scales that serves convenient non-meat food.”

“It’s hard living among carnivores, you mean. Drakes and Gnolls. You should live among half-Elves. They’re more your style.”

Ceria spoke up from her table. That was somewhat ironic, and Hawk gave her a knowing look.

“Miss Ceria, I’ve seen you eat all-meat dishes three nights in a row.”

The half-Elf blushed.

“Yeah, well—I’m not a typical half-Elf. Meat’s good alright?”

“Yeah! Let’s have real hamburgers! For free?”

Relc pounded the table. Lyonette just folded her arms. Laughing, Erin turned back to Numbtongue and found he was engrossed in his book. She went on.

“Temile! Bad news! The haunted house idea might not work on Gnolls!”

“Really? Damn!”

The [Actor] looked up from the rehearsal and cursed. He was now actually a [Producer], if a low-level one. But he had taken charge of the Players of Celum and was whipping his new cast of Drakes, Gnolls and Humans into shape. Erin shrugged helplessly.

“Sorry. Unless you or the Players who went north get the [Writers] to make more plays, you might be outta luck. Because I’m all outta plays. I’ve used up all the ones I actually knew from home. I mean, you could try The Lorax or something, but I don’t think it works.”

“The what?”

Temile looked up excitedly. Erin waved a hand.

“No, no. It’s a children’s story. It’s not a good play.”

“Oh.”

The [Actors] not practicing had gathered around Erin. She was a bit embarrassed by the way they treated her—she was almost like a boss and an acting legend to them, as the person who’d helped them discover the world of theatre to begin with. She cleared her throat, embarrassed.

“Any word from Wesle, Jasi, and the rest?”

Temile sighed enviously.

“Just bits and pieces. I’ve heard they’re going north. They’re actually around Invrisil by now! They’ve been performing in each city—sold out shows once word got out. They’d stay a few days, then go by carriage to the next city! Apparently they’re making more money than they can spend! And some of it’s come back!”

He nodded around significantly to the other [Actors] and then pointed to the rest of the crew.

“See our staff? We’ve got [Builders] and [Carpenters] working with us now, thanks to the money we’re getting from working and the northern team. I’ve got apartments leased so we’re all in one place, and I’m even looking at making some sort of deal in Celum or Liscor for the same for our new [Actors]. Honestly, we could even afford to buy a place to perform and store our things if you weren’t hosting us. I might need to tell Wesle to stop sending coin!”

“Don’t do that! Take it and use it!”

One of the other Human [Actors], a woman, urged Temile. She looked at Erin.

“Miss Solstice, we can’t fall behind! Emme says their [Writers] are doing bits and pieces, but nothing as good as what we have yet. Can’t you give us anything new? Our regular crowd has seen everything so far and since we can’t all go through the door to Pallass…”

They were all looking at her. Erin winced; Shakespeare and the classics of the acting world were a high bar to force [Writers] to match. She sighed.

“I dunno, guys. I’m serious—I can’t remember any full plays. I have a Skill and I’m empty.”

“What about the story you mentioned?”

“What, The Lorax? It—doesn’t translate well.”

“Give it a try!”

Now even the Drakes and Gnolls practicing their lines were gathering. Erin held up her hands, trying not to succumb to peer pressure. And failing.

“No—come on. It’s just a kid’s story. You see, there’s this, uh, magical protector of the forests, and this guy who begins selling these uh, special, magical trees that provide a unique substance—”

The crowd listened attentively. Erin realized that the story of Dr. Seuss’ classics were actually very plausible in this world. She gave them an abbreviated version of the story, ending with the message of environmental awareness.

“And then there were no more trees, see? And so it’s terrible. And that’s the ending.”

She looked around, gauging the reaction of the crowd. Erin had thought that a message of conservation wouldn’t exactly fly in the pre-industrial world she now lived in. Surprisingly though, some of the Gnolls were nodding solemnly. They got it. Temile and the Drakes on the other hand…

One of the Drakes raised a claw, frowning.

“So why doesn’t he find another forest?”

“It’s unique, obviously. That’s the point.”

“So? Replant the damn things! Or get a [Druid] to regrow it all. Even a [Farmer] could do it, although it would take a few years. Easy. Oh! I get it! It’s a lesson about not being prepared. Duh.”

“It’s certainly not as dramatic as love betrayed, death, and the downfall of the mighty due to hubris and the follies of men.”

Temile sighed.

“And Drakes and Gnolls.”

Someone else put that in helpfully. Erin had to smile. She shook her head.

“Sorry. I tried the haunted house thing, but Gnolls smell too well. I suppose we could use illusions?”

“Maybe?”

Temile had helped set up the fake scenes with Erin. He stepped back and called into the crowd.

“Where’s Jexam?”

“Here!”

A Drake pushed himself forwards. Erin blinked; he bowed slightly to her as Temile introduced him.

“This is our special effects person, Erin. Jexam, tell Miss Erin about your abilities.”

The Drake shook Erin’s hand, beaming.

“A pleasure, Miss Solstice! I am indeed the uh, special effects of the plays. [Hedge Mage]. Self-taught. I do all the illusions for the Players of Celum—this group, at least. I know our main troupe was seeking out a real [Illusionist]. I’m afraid though that my abilities aren’t enough to handle your idea of this haunted house.”

“Don’t be modest! I’ve seen you doing effects and they’re great! I love the snow magic! It even feels cold!”

The Drake blushed with pride at Erin’s compliment.

“It’s an honor to hear you say that, but it’s just low-grade magic. Not even Tier 1. [Cooling Breeze]. Just a little cantrip I worked up. It’s wonderful on hot days. I used to get paid just to cool rooms down. The problem with illusions on the other hand is that I have to work for a long time to make them work well. And animating them? Making them real? Very tricky and I’m not high-enough level yet. Nor am I an [Illusionist], Miss Erin.”

He looked apologetic. Erin shook her head.

“Aw, that’s okay. Gnolls could probably smell that they’re fake. I think we really need to rethink how we’ll do a haunted house or put it on the shelf, Temile. I mean, we could do the creepy little girls, but can you make an entire haunted house out of little creepy girls?”

“Um…no?”

Erin nodded sadly. Temile looked around. The Players of Celum had their own area behind the stage that was more or less permanently filled with props, and some dedicated tables they could eat and drink at—discounted or free after performances! He gestured to Erin.

“What if we think over the idea? Hey, you lot, get a space cleared for Miss Solstice. We have some water—where’s the pitcher?”

“I’ll just get it! Excuse me! Water please!”

Laughing, Erin waved towards the front of the inn. That was the thing about being an [Innkeeper] with a staff! And it was Lyonette herself who came over to offer everyone a refill.

“Trouble with your newest idea, Erin?”

She sounded vaguely relieved. Erin sighed.

“Yeah. I really thought it’d be a small thing, but—fun, you know? But if we can’t make it good for all species, what’s the point?”

Lyonette nodded as she put the pitcher down. Temile and some of the ‘veterans’, who’d been acting for a few months were gathered around the table, thinking it over.

“Could we erase the smells in the room?”

“Maybe. But that’s a higher-level spell than I know as well, Temile.”

Jexam sighed. Temile slapped his thigh in vexation. Erin frowned.

“We could definitely do monsters, or costumes—although that’s hard work. But if you can’t surprise a Gnoll because he can smell you, what can you do?”

Lyonette studied Erin’s face and then smiled slightly.

“You know who’d be perfect for your plan, Erin? You-know-who.”

“Volde—oh. Hey, that’s not funny!”

Erin looked up sharply. Lyonette gave her a twisted smile, but she could at least joke about Toren these days. Erin shook her head in reply to Temile’s querying look. Then she sat up.

“I think we’ll draw the line at asking Pisces to do stuff with actual skeletons. But what about illusions? He is good at them.”

“Really? I wouldn’t be surprised given how he boasts, but I’ve only seen him—no, wait, he did them for the first plays, didn’t he?”

Lyonette frowned, intrigued. Erin nodded.

“Yeah! And I’ve seen him do great stuff as well! The first time I met him he disguised himself as this terrifying monster! That’s actually how he lived before he came here. He’d frighten people out of their money! He could do the voice, smell—and a horrifying image!”

“Do you think he’d teach Jexam, or at least work on a few spells?”

Temile was interested. Erin bit her lip, thinking. It would be a lot of work to rope Pisces into doing a haunted house, but Erin still wanted to give it a shot. She had a vision of a warehouse, or a house in say, Liscor, that people could go into and experience cheap, non-life-threatening scares!

“Maybe. If I bribe him, sure. And he likes the plays. I bet he’d love to scare people. I haven’t seen him. Lyonette, do you know where he is?”

The [Princess] looked up as she refilled the last cup.

“No. I had to have Drassi bring him up breakfast because he was in his room all day. He might be there still.”

“He missed breakfast? That’s unusual. Hold on, Temile. I’ll get back to you.”

So saying, Erin got up and wandered down the length of her inn. There was only one Horn of Hammerad today, and Ceria was finishing her lunch.

“Hey Ceria, where’s your team?”

The half-Elf looked up from her sausages. She chewed, swallowed, and nodded towards the door.

“Yvlon and Ksmvr are in Liscor. I’m just about to join them, actually. We’re all going to visit the Bloodfields. Scouting.”

Erin slapped her forehead.

“Oh. Right! Bevussa stopped by this morning. She wanted one of the mana stones. You’re going to teleport there, right? It’s not too far?”

Ceria shook her head.

“Only about as far as to Celum. Even less, I think. We’re going to the edge of the Bloodfields—nowhere closer with it active. But it’ll save us from having to camp out and march all the way there while we find a route. We’ll all be back once Bevussa sets up a door.”

“Handy having her do that, huh?”

The [Cryomancer] grinned.

“I heard Tekshia made Bevussa do it. She didn’t want to pay Hawk to run out that far.”

“I wouldn’t even have charged her that much! Your Guildmistress is a spendthrift! Classic Drake!”

Hawk called out from his table. Ceria chuckled.

“I’m going with the other teams to see how it looks. Oh—but Pisces won’t be coming with us.”

“What? Why? And do you know where he is?”

Ceria shrugged.

“He made a very good point that he annoys the other teams. Almost as much as Yvlon and I do with the Celum ones—”

She grimaced. Erin looked at her sympathetically; she’d heard about the Horn’s troubles in Celum.

“They’re still mad at you?”

“Well, they agreed to join the Bloodfields expedition, so they’re willing to be civil. Plus, it pays well and we’re all adventurers. But Pisces might aggravate them even more than Yvlon and me. Plus, Pisces is actually studying hard. I…don’t want to interrupt him, as the team leader, you know?”

“He’s studying?”

Erin looked blank. Ceria nodded.

“Oh yeah. And I mean studying. He was always good at focusing—more than me. I have to sit in a bathtub with Ksmvr boiling my skin off to concentrate, but Pisces studies on his own. These last few days—remember when he woke us up screaming? Ever since then he’s been in his room. He barely comes out to eat.”

“I noticed that. Huh. What’s he working on?”

The half-Elf finished the last of her meal and wiped at her mouth with the back of her hand.

“Undead? No, but seriously, Erin. He’s studying a new spell, I think. He keeps muttering about ‘puzzles’ and the complexity of it. I think he’s trying to take down another Tier 4 spell. It’s worth letting him work to do that. Me—I’m just trying to improve my spell power. Grimalkin says I’m making progress—I’m not burning myself anymore.”

She sighed. Her daily boil-baths were another facet of the new inn lifecycle. Erin patted her on the back sympathetically.

“Hang in there. And hey—cheer up. Grimalkin might not come tonight!”

“He comes every night, Erin.”

“Well, to help you!”

The [Sinew Magus] was surprisingly dedicated to his agreement with Erin. He’d come every day this week to drop Ceria in boiling water and shout encouragements at her for an hour or two. The half-Elf shuddered.

“I know he’s coming tonight. Frankly, the Bloodfields will be the fun part of the day. Look, I’ve gotta meet Yvlon and Ksmvr. It’s nearly time to head out. We’ll come back through this way. Hey, did Moore and Seborn already leave?”

“Nope. They went to Pallass, actually.”

“Pallass? But the door—”

Ceria twisted and Erin smiled.

“Moore charged it! He can do it for Seborn and him, but it tires him out. Seborn’s refusing to walk to Invrisil while Jelaqua’s, you know, seeing Maughin?”

She waggled her eyebrows. Ceria stared at them and then at Erin’s face. The young woman stopped.

“Well, it’s just as far as the door to Invrisil. What about their wagon?”

“Apparently they’re in a little fortress of vines with a bunch of food. I dunno. Seborn’s mad at Jelaqua, it’s this thing—I’m never going to get the door to Invrisil!”

Erin sighed. She needed it too, so she could find Ryoka! But that was a big thing, and this week had been pleasantly full of small things. But Ryoka—Erin wanted to find her. She had to come back. Even if she brought danger. Ceria shrugged in reply to the drama of the Halfseekers. She pushed herself up.

“Well, hopefully they sort it out. See you, Erin.”

“Oh! Wait! Can I get Pisces to help me with this haunted house thing? Or will it take too long?”

Erin pleaded with Ceria. The half-Elf bit her lip.

“I don’t know. Pisces would probably say yes—why not? He’s got time and it’s his choice. But you’ll have to knock a lot. And he might be snappish. Come to that, did he eat lunch?”

“I’ll bribe him with food. Hey, can I get some sausages and some of that pasta?”

Erin called towards the kitchen. For once no one appeared with the food. Her staff weren’t all slaves, so Erin marched in and got it herself. She’d filled a big bowl and stuck a fork in the meal, then went with Ceria. They were about to climb the stairs to Pisces’ room when Drassi caught them.

The Drake was working alongside Ishkr today. The [Barmaid] and incorrigible [Gossip] waved at Erin and Ceria and the two stopped to look at her.

“Hey, I just heard you’re looking for Pisces? He’s out.”

“What? I thought he was in his room, studying.”

Drassi grinned toothily at Erin.

“He was. But Selys got him. This morning, when you were pranking everyone. Didn’t you notice?”

Erin hesitated.

“No…what did Selys want with Pisces?”

“I think she was going shopping for magical items. You know, since she’s rich? She told Pisces she wanted his opinion. So they left. They’re not back yet.”

The [Gossip] looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] looked at her. There was something to be said for having Drassi on staff. If Ishkr was the dependable employee that every establishment needed, because it needed someone who brought no drama in, had few demanding quirks and whose only goal was to do his job, get paid, and go home, Drassi was the employee who knew everything and everyone. Erin sighed.

“Well, great. Selys has Pisces. We’ll have to wait. If you see him on the way to the Adventurer’s Guild, tell him I wanted to see him, Ceria?”

“Will do.”

The half-Elf adventurer headed for the door. Erin, shaking her head, went to put the food away. As she did, a thought struck her. Selys. And Pisces. Going shopping?

“That almost sounds like a date.”

Ceria paused. She looked back at Erin.

“With Pisces? No way.”

Erin laughed uncertainly.

“Yeah! I mean, Selys? I don’t see it. She’s got standards! And Pisces—”

Both paused. Then they grew thoughtful. Drassi looked between the two and broke in.

“Going shopping together? That sounds like a date to me. Hey Erin, what’s this about your boyfriend?”



—-



The sword swung at her neck. She could trace the arc. Not with her eyes alone—it was too fast to visually process and come up with a thought-out plan of response. Her body moved by instinct, by training.

That was what it meant to be a [Warrior]. So she was already raising her two-handed sword, knocking the blade aside. It meant she had also seen the stab coming from the side. She pivoted, letting it slash across her armor. Her sword darted in, chopping quickly at her opponent’s unguarded side.

Normally that would be enough. But what got her each time was her opponent. He had three arms. And the enchanted buckler caught her attack and neutralized it. All the force she’d put into the blow stopped on the glowing force field of energy in the air. Yvlon Byres saw ripples as she retreated. Too slow. Ksmvr swung the dagger and his practice sword. She saw him use a Skill—

Yvlon raised her sword and Ksmvr’s sword slashed across her guard with a crack of wood meeting wood that made some of the other sparring partners glance up from their sessions. Yvlon winced and called out.

“Pause! Ksmvr, that’s good enough for today.”

Obediently, the Antinium [Skirmisher] lowered his weapons. He’d been zipping around their dueling area, using his newfound [Quick Movement] Skill to pressure her. Yvlon lowered her blade, wiping sweat from her forehead as she removed her helmet. Ksmvr hopped over to the place where they’d stored their actual weapons and came back with a bottle of water.

True to the Antinium’s practical nature, he had already drunk a few mouthfuls. Yvlon accepted the bottle, smiling.

“Thanks, Ksmvr.”

“You are welcome, Yvlon.”

The two were training in the Adventurer’s Guild’s practice yard. It was fairly full even in the morning; it was one of the few areas in the city where people were able to practice their skill at arms. And in a world where [Warriors] went toe-to-toe with monsters and magic-users, they had to practice. Now, Yvlon and Ksmvr stopped for a small break. If people were waiting they’d have given up the sparring circle, but they had time. A pair of Gnolls were exchanging artful cuts with axe vs sword to their left and no one was using the place to their right.

“You predicted my [Quick Slash], Yvlon. I am most impressed. May I ask how you anticipated it?”

Yvlon smiled at Ksmvr. She gestured with her sword to his. He had kept his Forceshield Buckler since it wasn’t dangerous in the sparring match, but he’d substituted his regular enchanted shortsword and Flamecoat Dagger for wooden ones to keep the spar fair. Just like how she’d put away her Sword of Weight and taken a bastard sword instead.

“I knew it was coming, Ksmvr. You should have gotten my back or forced me into a position where I can’t block it. I’m always ready for it.”

“Ah. But if you were not you, Yvlon, surely I would catch you by surprise?”

The two were discussing tactics. It was their custom to spar every day and they were a regular sight at the Adventurer’s Guild. Yvlon shrugged, feeling at her arms.

She was wearing armor. Enchanted steel—a bit mismatched in decoration because it had all been bought piece-meal, and a bit ill-fitting compared to her brother’s custom plate, but still high-quality. It was more expensive than anyone but a Gold-rank adventurer could field, really. But her arms—

Yvlon never took off the armor that covered her arms, from the wrist all the way to her shoulders. Never in public, and usually, not even when she was alone. Ksmvr noticed the motion and Yvlon stopped herself. She cleared her throat.

“I don’t think you should count on that, Ksmvr. People can generally expect you’ve got a Skill like that. Most [Warriors] learn one of the primary activation Skills. [Quick Slash], [Power Strike], [Counter Blow]—they’re all Skills that turn into better ones as you gain levels.”

“Oh. So my deception is already a predetermined variable.”

Yvlon paused. Sometimes Ksmvr sounded like Pisces, only without the sneer. Her lips moved and she nodded.

“Yes. You should instead circle and use it to capitalize on an opening rather than make it a surprise attack.”

The Antinium nodded. He was a skilled fighter, but unlike Yvlon, he’d only been alive for a few years. He was almost four years old. That shocked Yvlon when she thought about it, but the Antinium were adults when they were ‘born’. Even so, fighting with a four-year-old would have given her pause. But Ksmvr had nowhere else to go. The Antinium gestured with one of his three arms to Yvlon.

“May I ask what your Skill is, Yvlon? I know you have mentioned it, but I have never seen you use it in any battle.”

“What? Oh. That’s because mine isn’t good against monsters. I have [Crescent Cut]. Want to see it?”

“Yes.”

“Okay then. I’ll cut at you hard and fast. You block it, alright?”

The Antinium nodded. Yvlon lifted her sword with a smile. She saw him raise his bucker, watching her sword. She lifted her blade over her head and then swung it as fast as she could.

She slashed diagonally at his chest and he moved flawlessly to block it. Yvlon used her Skill.

[Crescent Cut].

Her blade curved in its trajectory. It swept down, like the arc of a waning moon. Ksmvr tried to adjust his shield, but the Skill slid Yvlon’s blade down, fast, fast. Without losing momentum, it curved along the arc, sweeping below his guard. It would have hit him hard if Yvlon hadn’t pulled the blow. As it was, the thwok was audible throughout the practice courts.

“You alright, Ksmvr? Did I crack your shell?”

Yvlon looked concerned as she glanced at Ksmvr. The Antinium wore no armor; he had forgone it since armor was hard to fit on his body anyways and he was a [Skirmisher], built for speed. Ksmvr felt at his side and shook his head.

“I am undamaged superficially. A splendid Skill, Yvlon. It does not slow the blade. If anything, it speeds up.”

Yvlon leaned on her sword, smiling crookedly.

“Exactly. It’s a neat trick you can use on someone expecting a [Quick Slash]. But it’s mostly good against opponents who’re trying to block, Ksmvr. Not monsters. I wish I had your Skill—or [Power Strike], honestly.”

“I don’t know about that. I’ve seen you take down a score of [Bandits] and I never complained once when you saved my life.”

Yvlon Byres turned. Her fair hair moved in the breeze. She stopped at the familiar voice. She saw a woman holding a staff, wearing chitin armor made of a Shield Spider, watching from the spectator’s side of the practice courts. Yvlon stopped uncertainly.

The man standing next to the [Mage] raised his hand. He was older than Yvlon and the [Mage]. A grizzled veteran with pepper in his hair. Crossbow Stan smiled hesitantly as Ksmvr turned.

“Hoi there!”

“Stan. Alais.”

Yvlon hesitated. The two Silver-rank captains were watching her and Ksmvr. She looked at Ksmvr. But then she put a smile on her face and walked towards them.

“Hello. You two made it here alright?”

She spoke politely to the two Silver-rank adventurers. Alais nodded. She’d been the one who’d called out. She knew Yvlon. Yvlon knew her. Once, they had been fellow adventurer team leaders. Friends, if not especially close.

Now? Well, at least they could speak civilly. Alais nodded, watching Ksmvr as he went over to put the practice weapons away. She looked at Yvlon and the [Wounded Warrior] saw her throat move before she spoke.

“Not bad. We caught the end of the session. You train like that every day? Your skill hasn’t left you.”

“Thanks. We were just finishing our spar. We’re not late, are we?”

“No, no. Our teams just got in from the—inn. We’re all gathered. Is Ceria not coming?”

“She should be here soon.”

Yvlon answered distractedly. Stan gestured.

“Good job that. Your teammate—”

“Ksmvr.”

“That is me. Hello, Crossbow Stan, Captain Alais. We have met. Are we fighting or socializing, Yvlon?”

The woman winced as she took her sword from Ksmvr. She saw Alais and Stan’s expressions flicker, but that was what was lovable and tricky about Ksmvr. He lacked subtlety. Actually, she liked that about him.

“No, Ksmvr. We’re teammates, remember? All working together on the Bloodfields request? Cutting a permanent trade route towards Pallass?”

“Yes, Yvlon. I am aware. However, I perceived that last time we were similarly engaged in discourse before turning to violence. I simply wished to know if that was an option in the future.”

“No!”

Yvlon chorused with Alais and Stan. She turned to Ksmvr.

“No more fighting. That was—”

She paused. Alais looked to one side. Stan filled in for her.

“A bad scene. Lots of thoughtless words.”

“On whose side?”

Yvlon nudged Ksmvr. He looked at her, but obediently fell silent. She turned back to Alais and Stan and tried to smile. It felt about as good as Alais’.

“We’re professionals. And we’re working together, so be nice, Ksmvr. Stan? Where’s your team?”

“Just inside.”

Relieved, Stan led the other three adventurers into the Guild. Alais looked warily as a group of Drakes passed her to fill the adventuring yard.

“It’s my first time in Liscor. It’s so—”

“Different from a Human city?”

Alais bit her lip. Stan looked a bit reproving, but Yvlon hadn’t meant it as an insult! They were all Silver-ranks, having adventured for years, but not all of them had ever been down as far as Liscor. Yvlon hadn’t until recently; she’d felt that it wasn’t her area. Stan on the other hand had been doing this job for decades.

“Liscor’s alright. Good city; the Watch keeps order. You don’t have to watch your back at night most places. Can’t say I don’t like those walls either.”

He nodded towards Liscor’s four tall walls that marked the edge of the city. Yvlon exchanged a look with Ksmvr.

“They’re nice, but I’d prefer them twice as tall and thick, honestly.”

“Really? They’re already better than most Human cities. But I guess with all the monsters and undead—”

Alais stopped delicately, glancing at Yvlon. The other woman compressed her mouth and Stan glared at Alais. It was with some relief that they entered into the main room of the Adventurer’s Guild.

“And here we are.”

Yvlon saw the room was packed! More than nine teams filled the usually quiet Guild, most of them Human. She recognized the two teams Alais and Stan made for.

They were both Silver-rank teams. Thunder’s Solace and the Boltspitters. Good, solid teams, like the Horns of Hammerad had been.

Like the Silver Spears, too. Yvlon suppressed the thought, but she couldn’t help but tense. Neither could the two teams of adventurers. They looked up at Yvlon and Ksmvr and their postures stiffened.

But they’d been through this. Yvlon forced a smile as she walked over to the teams. She didn’t sit, though.

“I see all the Boltspitters are here except for Lailli. And Thunder’s Solace. Hello, Caddin.”

“Yvlon.”

He didn’t even meet her gaze. Yvlon still remembered hitting him again and again in the Adventurer’s Guild. She turned to Alais. The rest of Thunder’s Solace only glanced up at Yvlon.

A bad scene.

“Well, I think we’ll go look for Ceria. Meeting’s about to start. We’ll talk after. Alais?”

“Right.”

Unconvincing smiles. Yvlon backed away. But she’d played nice and—and that was important. She knew the other teams had seen her. Many of them were groups she recognized. Some were whispering.

Yvlon Byres. Captain of the Silver Spears. One of the leaders of the group that got wiped out in Liscor’s dungeon. It felt like forever ago, but her reputation still haunted her. She walked towards the main doors, looking for Ceria. Ksmvr stared at the Boltspitters and Thunder’s Solace. The adventurers stared at him too, but for different reasons. He edged closer and they all leaned back, staring at the Antinium.

Ksmvr glanced over his shoulder at Yvlon, paused and whispered.

“Dominance.”

“Ksmvr, stop that!”

He hurried after her and found Yvlon outside. She was leaning against the side of the Guild, massaging her arms again. The Antinium saw her look up with a grimace.

“Don’t provoke them, Ksmvr. We made up. We can at least be civil.”

“I am sorry, Yvlon.”

Ksmvr lowered his head. Yvlon instantly smiled, and then felt at her arm again. It didn’t hurt. It should, but—she felt liquid. And as she sniffed at the edges of her armor she grimaced. Foul. She shook her head.

“I’m not angry, Ksmvr. It’s funny. They don’t actually mind you as much. I think they actually respect you for taking out all those [Bandits].”

“I understand the joke. The hated Antinium is given higher esteem than the fellow Human adventurers. I will register my amusement if laughter is indicated. But I do not believe their complaint is valid, Yvlon.”

“Yeah, well—I nearly broke Caddin’s jaw. That’s enough reason to hold a grudge again. Look, just be polite when we go back in. There’ll be other teams—Ceria and I can handle them. Just as well Pisces isn’t with us. We can’t take all of them in a brawl.”

Ksmvr tilted his head as if counting and nodded at last. He stared as Yvlon cursed.

“Your arms are not well, Yvlon?”

She looked up. He was staring at her arms. Few people knew the extent of Yvlon’s injuries except for her friends. She had been injured a while back. At Albez. A fire elemental had melted her old armor. And the metal had burnt right into her arms. Lodged there.

Metal mixed with bone. It had made her arms weak, so fragile they could break if she hit something too hard. Yvlon had thought it was the end of her career—until Pisces had helped her reinforce the bone. Now her arms looked—well, she didn’t feel the alterations he’d made and they were as solid as ever. She didn’t even feel pain if she didn’t want to. She could literally [Ignore Pain]. But another complication had emerged a week back. She shook her head.

“It’s not bad. Just a bit infected. I’ve had worse.”

Pus and blood. That was what she’d see if she opened the gauntlets. Ksmvr stared at her arms and Yvlon looked away. The Antinium’s voice was serious.

“It is not good, Comrade Yvlon. Infections are very bad for a [Warrior]. A healing potion will make it worse. That is how potions work.”

“I know. I know, Ksmvr. I just can’t take a bad injury, that’s all. And if I used a potion, it might clear up.”

Or grow ten times worse in the flash of an eye. Ksmvr was pointedly quiet. Yvlon cleared her throat, looking away. He was the only one who knew about the infection, and that was because he had walked in on her dressing the wounds. She and Ksmvr were—friends. More than he was with anyone but Pisces. But only he called her ‘Yvlon’ and not Comrade Pisces, or Captain Ceria.

“If I need to, I can use a healing potion. It’ll make this worse, but the rest of my body will still heal, Ksmvr. Look. I’ll talk to Ceria about it, okay?”

“Does it hurt? If it hurts—”

“It doesn’t hurt. It’s strong.”

Yvlon made a fist with her right hand and pounded it into her left palm as hard as she could, feeling the shock run through the metal gauntlets. Inside her armor, her arm didn’t flex or break as it would have before. That was thanks to Pisces. He’d used his necromancy to reinforce her bone with artificial pieces. What he couldn’t do was fix her flesh and tissue, hence the infection as the metal and skin rubbed at each other.

If only he could fix the underlying bone issue. He’d told her he was working on it. But it was beyond complicated, even for a [Necromancer], apparently. A lot of Yvlon’s bone was just—gone. And the metal wasn’t exactly solid steel; it had all the strength of a…a…really thin bit of metal. A lock pick. But even they were stronger than…

Yvlon Byres stopped. She stopped thinking about her arms. She stopped worrying about them because that was an endless cycle. She stood straighter, sighed, and smiled at Ksmvr. It was her life now. And once, she had had another team. But this was hers. She turned as she saw a familiar half-Elf striding towards them. Ceria’s robes were shimmering and the half-Elf’s pointed ears were twitching with nerves.

“Yvlon! Ksmvr! Am I late? Something wrong?”

She stopped, panting slightly from her jog. Yvlon shook her head as Ksmvr opened her mandibles.

“It’s nothing. Ceria, everyone’s here. Stan and Alais are there. And some others. Let’s go in!”

She wanted to go inside with no further fuss and just do her job, which was be an adventurer. But Ksmvr lacked subtlety. He raised one hand.

“Hello. We are not late. Good to see you again, Captain Ceria. Before we engage in our mission briefing, I would like to interject a pressing fact about Yvlon’s health, Captain Ceria.”

“Huh? What? Did you break your arm again, Yvlon?”

Ceria looked alarmed as she adjusted her robes. Her eyes went to Yvlon’s arms—the woman stopped feeling at them and smiled weakly.

“I need to talk to you later. About my arms. They’re okay for fighting. Just—complicated with healing potions.”

The [Ice Mage]’s eyes flickered. She could guess what Yvlon meant by that. Still—she looked at Yvlon and the [Wounded Warrior] tried to convey that it was not a problem. Ceria nodded slowly.

“We’ll talk. Today’s supposed to only be reconnaissance. We’re not getting anywhere near the Bloodfields. Come on. I don’t want to be late.”

Together now, they pushed into the Guild. Pisces was still absent, but Yvlon felt better with Ceria by her side. She had been in the crypt too.

The three Horns of Hammerad paused as the adventurers gathered together looked at them again. They were mostly Human, mostly from up north. Ceria and Yvlon had talked to Stan and Alais about getting in on the Bloodfields contract, and word had spread. Yvlon looked from team to team.

All of them were Silver-rank. She knew some teams personally, others only by reputation or in passing. The Boltspitters. Thunder’s Solace. The all-male team of Ensoldier Shields, predictably armed with their classic shield-and-mace combination. The Whistling Bows—looking decidedly mismatched with their new recruits filling the gaps. Ceria took a breath.

“Well then. Let’s say hi. Ksmvr, be nice! Don’t say anything—follow our lead, okay?”

“Yes, Captain Ceria.”

The half-Elf put a smile on her face. She strode forwards.

“Walt! Is that you?”

“Ceria? I heard we’d be seeing you. Is this your new team?”

The Captain of Ensoldier Shields got up, and more team leaders drifted over. Yvlon saw Ceria shaking Walt’s hand. Yvlon turned and a slight woman with a rash of scales along one cheek looked up at her. She was Human, but for that one sign of cross-speciesism. She didn’t smile, but that wasn’t her way.

“Yvlon. Good to see you.”

“Kammy.”

“Please don’t. It’s ‘Captain Kam’.”

“My mistake. Who’s this?”

Yvlon smiled, and Captain Kam’s lips tried to move a bit. She turned and stared at Ksmvr. He was staring back. Yvlon prayed he wouldn’t mention Kam’s sign of distant Drake ancestry. She was…touchy about it. Yvlon was amazed she’d come to Liscor at all.

“This is Ksmvr, one of my teammates. He’s a—unique member of the Antinium. Ksmvr, this is Captain Kam, leader of the Whistling Bows. She’s a [Bow Rider]. Ksmvr’s our [Skirmisher], Kam.”

“Hi.”

“Hello, I am Ksmvr.”

The two shook hands. Yvlon turned and saw more adventurers she recognized lined up to say hi. One of them, a former [Raider] with two scars along his cheeks—self-inflicted, she knew, for appearance’s sake—reached out and slapped her on the shoulder.

“Dead gods, is that an actual Antinium? I heard Liscor had ‘em. Hey! Yvlon! It’s us! Do you remember the Reddogs? We might actually buy some war dogs if we get paid enough from the Bloodfields! There’s this [Beast Trainer] in Liscor and he’s got a wonderful animal—”

“Drakes, Antinium, and Gnolls. Dead gods, this is weird. We went through that door and the inn. Yvlon, Ceria.”

“—Travelled sixty miles to get here. Just because we heard this was good work. And, well, I wanted to see what all the fuss was about! Not disappointed yet! We should have come here earlier, but we were hunting this damn Ogre for…”

“…lost six on my team. To damn Ghouls. There were twenty of them and they just leapt at us. It was just five weeks ago. I still remember it. If we’d just had caught them. Terrica was on duty and I just couldn’t work with her any more after that—”

It was a familiar scene, chaos as everyone talked and caught up on the news. And it made Yvlon feel good. This was what she’d hoped for in Celum’s guild before it had gone so wrong. If the other teams wanted to talk to her and Ceria about the loss of all the other teams—well, word had either spread about the previous incident or they were holding back.

In fact, they treated Yvlon as if she was still a team captain. Yvlon was listening sympathetically to Captain Kam’s tale of her own team’s losses. Maybe that was it. Some of these teams understood. She looked around, seeing familiar faces, new ones.

Silver-rank teams. Yvlon had been among their number, jostling for the position of ‘top team’ with the others. Now? It might be arrogance, but she felt like the Horns were above them in raw ability and magical items. Above, but below Gold-rank. Yvlon knew her brother’s team, the Silver Swords, still had that extra edge.

The gold would change that. Once they got it changed in Invrisil with the contacts the Halfseekers and Griffon Hunt knew, the Horns could gear up even further. All this was just keeping themselves busy. Some of the other adventurers were admiring her armor. Walt came up and tapped on Yvlon’s breastplate with one knuckle.

“Fancy gear, Byres! Better than our stuff. You’re not doing bad, are you?”

She glanced up. The [Armored Warrior] wasn’t trying to be mean; Walk just lacked all tact. And a way with women, hence his team. She forced a smile.

“Not bad right now, Walt. But you’ve got a new shield.”

He looked proud, gesturing at his shield.

“It freezes whatever hits it. Cost us a fair bit, but its solid! Your armor do anything fancy? I saw this Drake wearing high-grade magical armor! Dead gods, but I’d trade Kelvin and his useless ass for it and all my gear!”

Yvlon laughed politely as the luckless Kelvin enjoyed the punches and jeers from the Ensoldier Shields.

“That’s got to be Keldrass you saw, Walt. Captain of the Flamewardens. He got it from this dungeon. The Raskghar, actually. You heard about them? And it’s worth a lot more than that!”

“The Raskghar? I heard about them. You fought those things, Yvlon. A new monster type? No—wait, some sentient species? Tell us about it! And this dungeon.”

The other adventurers crowded around Yvlon. She was looking for a seat to explain and hoping no one was smelling her armor when a voice burst through the hubbub among the mostly-Humans team.

“Hah. Look at that. The backup to the backup’s finally arrived. Dead gods, but what a crowd.”

Everyone fell silent. The drawling voice had come from another team who’d entered to find the overcrowded tables. It was a Drake, and he and four members of his team were looking around dismissively.

Those were fighting words. Walt instantly reddened. Yvlon recognized the Drake and bit her lip.

“Hey! You have a problem with us being here, asshole? We were invited to come here.”

“And you’re in our seats and causing a fuss. Who got into a fight with the Scaled Guard this morning? Kicking around local Bronze-rank teams and claiming all the seats?”

The Drake had bright orange scales and he was looking unhappy at all the Human guests. Yvlon saw Walt hesitate. But another team captain spoke up.

“The best teams have arrived, whoever you are. We’ve having a reunion, so if you’ve got a problem—take it up with the [Receptionists]!”

She gestured to the desk. Yvlon saw the Gnoll behind the counter duck. It wasn’t Selys on duty today. She bit her lip. This wasn’t good. All the teams present, from Alais’ to Stan’s to the rest were used to being fairly big fish in their local guilds. But the Drake who was talking just sneered at them. He put his hand on his side and exposed a shimmering sheathed blade. The other adventurers fell silent as his team laughed.

“Best teams? Let me introduce myself. I’m Gold-rank. Lifwail Blades. We’ve been here a month. You lot? You just swaggered in like you own the place. Funny. I haven’t seen your faces around. Or in the dungeon. Something holding you all back? Horns of Hammerad excepted, obviously.”

He nodded casually at Yvlon, Ceria, ignoring Ksmvr. And the other teams…fell silent. Gold-rank. Yvlon knew how they felt. Gold-ranks were rare around Celum and the area. But this was an exception. The Drake went on, casually putting one scaly foot on a chair.

“We’re Pallass’ team. What did I hear you say? You were contracted? For what? The Bloodfields job?”

He laughed. So did his team. The Human adventurers hesitated. Walt blustered, face red.

“Yeah? What about it? You taking it too?”

“Us? We’re too busy killing monsters in the dungeon to shepherd a bunch of [Bricklayers] making a road around the Bloodfields. You all want the safe stuff? Go ahead. But whichever one of you hazed our Drake team this morning, we’re onto you. You Humans all look alike, but you can apologize properly or we’ll get one later.”

The Drake glared around the room. Yvlon saw Ceria slap her forehead. Walt. He was an idiot about rank. Had he really started something within a few hours of getting to Liscor’s guild? Without even checking to see what the score was?

“Is that a threat?”

Oh, and he also couldn’t shut up. Walt blustered as he pushed his way forwards. He looked at the other Silver-rank teams. There were a lot more than Lifwail Blades’ team. The Drake raised a brow.

“What’s that, third-stringer? You picking a fight? Or are you trying to start something with all your Human friends here? You do realize this is our city, right?”

He gestured at the Drakes in the room. Yvlon noticed the non-Human adventurers were sitting far from his team. She wanted to slap her own face. What had the teams here done already? She counted two more Gold-ranks in the room. Walt’s face was red.

“Respect’s respect. We didn’t start anything. Some assholes want to poke fun at us, we slap them a bit.”

“Really? Well, some Humans come into a Drake city and think they can hit a few Drakes and maybe we decide to do the same.”

The Drake leaned forwards. He had muscle, even if he wasn’t as burly as Walt. And he was Gold-rank. Yvlon looked for Ceria. The half-Elf was opening her mouth, clearly wondering if she could defuse or if it was better to get back, when a loud, dry voice interrupted the rising tension.

“Adventurer Bessr. If anyone’s slapping anyone in this Guild, it’s me.”

An old, short Drake walked down the stairs. She had a little wooden cane, greyish scales, and a very irked expression. Everyone turned and Yvlon exhaled in relief as she spotted a familiar, irritable face, following the nervous Gnoll [Receptionist]. Guildmistress Tekshia glared at the Drake, Bessr, and Walt.

“No one’s fighting here. You want to settle it? Take it outside and no one breaks any bones! Do it later and stop pissing around like little hatchlings. Stop starting Lizardshit, Bessr.”

Bessr immediately backed down. That was the difference between Celum and Liscor’s Guild, too. In a similar scene—Yvlon flushed—Celum’s Guildmaster, a former Silver-rank, hadn’t even appeared when the altercation between her team and the adventurers there had erupted. Here though—she saw Alais and Stan were still tense.

But Tekshia was Tekshia. Bessr raised his claws.

“Outside, Guildmistress. Got it. We just wanted to send a message.”

“Received. And you, Human, no one pulls rank in my Guild. And no one starts a fight, got it? You start another fistfight, and we’ll pour you onto the road.”

“And what if—”

Walt got no further. Tekshia Shivertail didn’t argue. She just threw the cane like a javelin. It flashed across the room so fast that Bessr was still leaping back when it hit Walt in the chest. His armor didn’t bend around the point of impact; rather, the impact turned into pure momentum and sent him flying backwards.

[Launching Strike]. Or something like that. Yvlon watched Walt crash and lie on his back, winded and stunned on multiple levels. Tekshia walked forwards.

“Anyone else want to waste my time?”

“Ow. What was—”

Someone kicked Walt. Tekshia looked around. No one spoke. The Guildmistress walked forwards and fixed Bessr with a look. He winced as his team decided to take a seat out of the line of fire.

“Lifwail Blades, eh? Well, Bessr, I haven’t ever seen you in the Bloodfields. If it’s so easy compared to the dungeon, mind strolling through it for an hour or two? That’s how Gold-rank teams in my day proved they were worthy of the name.”

“Uh—”

Flushing, the Drake retreated. Tekshia nodded. Then she whirled around and snapped at the Human adventurers.

“You lot! Listen up! I’m Tekshia, Guildmistress of the Adventurer’s Guild. You’re in my Guild, so stop making a damn mess! You’re here to take on the Bloodfields contract. Well, we must be truly desperate, but you all qualify for the job.”

She accepted her cane as the Gnoll brought it back to her. She rapped the floorboards, scowling. No one spoke. Yvlon admired the old Drake. This was a proper Guildmistress.

“This isn’t a game. Liscor needs experienced adventurers to protect our workers and scout ahead, hence you all getting the offer. But if any of you are Bronze-rank incompetents masquerading as Silver, get out. The Bloodfields are nothing to joke about. Your job is to stay away from the Bloodfields, but even that can be dangerous. And any idiot who thinks they’re tough enough to wander too close and get their team killed and everyone they’re guarding? Step on up if you’re that tough and I’ll save us all the headache.”

She glared at Walt. He decided to remain sitting. Tekshia looked around.

“Alright. Today you get to listen to a wonderful explanation of why the Bloodfields are so important and help us scout which way we’re going. East or west! Then, when all of you have put your heads together to come up with this difficult answer, we’ll begin actually preparing a road. You all report here each morning or you don’t get paid. Bevussa? Get these rookies out of my guild!”

A Garuda who’d been sitting at a table stood up with her team.

“Yes, Guildmistress Tekshia! Issa, get the [Scouts] and [Master Builder] Reikhle. You all, with me!”

She gestured, and strode towards the door. The Silver-rank adventurers paused a moment before they realized Bevussa was moving. Then they scrambled to grab their things and rush after her. Yvlon knew where they were going and made her way to the back door. She saw Bessr waving at her and paused.

“Bessr?”

The Captain of Lifwail Blades was still flushed from his dressing down from Tekshia. But he growled at her as Ceria and Ksmvr paused with him.

“Heard some of the teams who gave yours shit for the crypt were here. They give you any trouble?”

Yvlon stared at him. She managed a startled response.

“No—uh—no. It’s fine.”

“Good. Don’t let teams who haven’t taken a beating do that. I heard yours went down holding the line. Not a lot of teams do that, disaster or not. Stay safe; Bevussa knows what she’s doing with the Bloodfields. Gold and glory, Horns.”

It was an old phrase, but maybe not among Drakes. Yvlon was so startled she clapped an arm across her armor reflexively.

“Silver and steel.”

She left with Ceria and Ksmvr. The half-Elf gave her a wide-eyed look. Respect? From a Gold-rank team? It filled Yvlon’s chest.

Then they were outside, making a beeline for The Wandering Inn. The other teams were following Bevussa’s at a fast march. They were disconcerted by Liscor; not only by Tekshia, but by the fact that Liscor’s pedestrians would shove them aside rather than give way to adventurers.

“Move it, you inbred Humans! I see you in that armor! Move it! Don’t you know how to walk?”

“Dead gods. That was the Guildmistress? They’re so—military around here!”

Alais panted, too wide-eyed to be awkward as Ceria and Yvlon fell into place next to them. Yvlon had to grin.

“Welcome to Liscor.”



—-



“Hey Bevussa! Ceria, Yvlon, Ksmvr! My favorite team!”

Another surprise greeted the Human adventurers at the inn. They’d all come through, but the sight of Erin Solstice, a bunch of [Actors] trying to put on zombie makeup, and a carrot cake stumped them. Bevussa turned as they poured into the room via the door.

“Alright! Everyone move forwards! To that side! We’re going back through the door! Erin, I set up the door. It’s the purple stone now. Where is—”

“Lyonette already added it to the dial. We even have labels now! See?”

The adventurers all turned and saw the purple stone marked ‘Bloodfields’ on it. Bevussa nodded.

“Don’t let anyone wander around near there or go through, Erin. Oh—and I’m supposed to tell you your service fee’s coming.”

“Awesome! Hey everyone! I’m Erin Solstice! This is my inn and you’re using my door! It’s free of charge and we’ve got a connection to Esthelm! You can go to Pallass, but you have to apply. And this is my favorite team in all of Liscor! The Horns!”

Erin waved at Ceria, Yvlon, and Ksmvr. Yvlon flushed and Bevussa raised an eyebrow.

“All of Liscor? What about us or the Halfseekers?”

“Uh—hey Bevussa, want some cake? It’s carrot! Hey, you adventurers! Any of you ever had cake?”

Some of the teams looked very interested; they’d probably not even stopped when coming through to the guild. Bevussa shook her head briskly.

“No time, Erin. We’ll come back later. Everyone through? Okay—someone turn that dial to the purple stone. Yes, just turn it. Then open the door—go on through, but don’t go anywhere!”

She began barking orders. Erin waved the adventurers off.

“Alright, but when you get back, I’ve got cake ready! Ooh, and potions and my special Scale Soup! Lyonette, we’re doing a product demonstration when they get back! Have you got a nail? My knife is too sharp…”

Yvlon followed Bevussa out into another world. South of Liscor, the bowl-shaped valley opened up and the higher elevation sloped downwards, away from the High Passes, the mountain range that separated Izril. A flatland emerged, full of grass and open space, perfect for pastures and forests.

Or that was how it should have been. In truth, the flat area was a perfect battleground that Humans and Drakes had traditionally fought in in ages past. By mutual consent, armies had fought in this space, and so much blood had been shed that over time the ecology of the grass had mutated, turning red. Crimson. And a new biome had emerged, one that craved blood. A deadly, alien landscape.

The Bloodfields. Yvlon looked around, her skin crawling under her armor. She stared around at the green…lush…grass..

They weren’t at the Bloodfields. The adventuring teams spread out on the grass, looking around, many muttering about their encounter with Erin.

“I was told she’s insane—”

“Heard about the incident with that gang?”

“Knows the Horns? Maybe—”

“Alright! Attention! Eyes forwards teams!”

Bevussa’s shout made every head turn. She flew out of the door and held her position in the air, wings beating as her team flew out and landed behind her. A few other Drakes and Gnolls were present; Yvlon recognized them as [Scouts] and the [Builder]. Bevussa’s voice directed her attention back up.

The Gold-rank Captain was in full authority-mode. She shouted down at the Silver-rank teams.

“My name is Bevussa Slenderscale, Captain of the Wings of Pallass! You are now standing at the edge of the Bloodfields, where you’ll be working! I don’t have the specifics of your job; it will change day to day. You’ll be responsible for removing monster nests, guarding workers as they clear a road, and scouting! However, my job is simple! To educate you about the dangers of the Bloodfields!”

She pointed one wing, turning in midair. The adventurers turned with her and saw…

Red. Dark red soil and grass in the distance, crimson. Like a stain, spreading across the normal grass and trees. But where the Bloodfields began, still miles distant, the world changed.

It was alien. Distant, tall and strange plants grew out of the soil. Brambles, huge and twining, emerged. Bright, glowing plants emerged, and the Bloodfields grew denser further in. Almost like a jungle—but in pockets. Some areas looked strangely bare; the growths of plants were dense in some places, not at all in others. But what stood out was simply the color.

Blood red. And yet, it was still distant. So far away in fact that Yvlon estimated there were at least two miles, maybe even three of ordinary grass between them and the Bloodfields. Bevussa pointed grimly.

“You may know of the Bloodfields or you may not. Either way, this is what you must know. The Bloodfields are an exceptionally dangerous area south of Liscor. The plants, animals, and monsters are all a lot more dangerous than most areas of the world. Everything there wants your blood. Even the animals and other creatures living there want to drain you dry.”

She looked back at the Silver-ranks. Yvlon glanced around and saw some doing likewise. She’d heard of the Bloodfields of course, but they weren’t being paid to go through it, just around it. However, older adventures like Stan were seriously listening to Bevussa, and Yvlon looked back up. The Garuda’s voice snapped at the teams below.

“My only lesson I’m being paid to teach you is this: do not go near the Bloodfields. Not in the summer, and even in the winter some of the things living there will kill you. The Bloodfields are a Gold-rank threat—meaning that Gold-rank teams can and have died there, not that it’s safe for them. The only time the Bloodfields are safe is when an army comes through and literally burns everything away. And when they’re gone, the Bloodfields are back within the month. Now. I know you’re probably not convinced, so we’re going to have a demonstration. Everyone look ahead. See those huge plants?”

She pointed. Yvlon had to squint to see and the adventurers shaded their eyes. They were so far distant from even the nearest discoloration in the soil from green grass to red, and the nearest objects breaking up the flatlands were even more distant still. Because everything was flat, as opposed to Liscor’s rolling valleys, Yvlon could see what Bevussa was pointing out.

“Those things? What the hell is that?”

Kam muttered as she peered ahead. She was looking at a cluster of fat…plants? They looked like pillows. Or fat cushions, some as large as…Yvlon squinted. Houses? Only, it was one entire plant.

It was an odd, disconcerting sight. Some of the adventurers muttered.

“I can barely see it! What is that, a boulder?”

“No. It’s a plant.”

“Why the hell are we so far back?”

“For your safety.”

That came from one of the Drakes. One of the Silver-rank teams, actually, a rarity in the north. She looked very nervous. And Yvlon realized all of the non-Humans were regarding the distant red edge of the Bloodfields warily.

She stared at the pillow-plant in the distance. It gave her an uneasy feeling. Ceria moved over and whispered to Yvlon and Ksmvr.

“My [Dangersense] is going off just looking at that thing.”

“I believe it is highly dangerous, Captain Ceria. I am familiar with the Bloodfields.”

“What is it, Ksmvr?”

“I have only studied it, never seen it, but most likely—”

“Your attention!”

Bevussa shouted and everyone looked up. She pointed.

“Can anyone hit that target from here? If not, I’ll fly closer and shoot it.”

The adventurers looked at her, surprised. From here? If it was thousand feet, it would still be a huge ask. Alais looked around, shifting as she lifted her staff.

“I could try a [Lightning Bolt]? It’s awfully long, though, and my control—”

“What, and fry us? I’ve seen your aim. Let me try. [Long-Range Shot]!”

Captain Kam stepped up. The [Bow Rider] wasn’t mounted; she’d been complaining about having to find a stables since Erin’s inn didn’t have one, a huge problem. She lifted her shortbow, drew it back, and loosed. Her arrow sped through the air as the adventurers watched. High, going further, further…

It fell short by about, oh, nine thousand and five hundred feet. Good for a shortbow! But the adventurers all laughed. Kam lowered her bow, flushing.

“It really is far. I wondered if it were an optical illusion.”

“Let us try, then. [Seeker Shot]!”

“[Arrow of Light]!”

“[Ice Spike]!”

Even Ceria joined in. Spells and arrows flew from the Silver-rank teams, but all were far, far too short. Even Ceria’s best, enhanced spell didn’t even come close to the distance. Yvlon looked around and saw some of the Gold-rank adventurers of Bevussa’s team shaking their heads. She looked mildly annoyed.

“If none of you has a mile-long Skill—”

“Who has one of those?”

One of the adventurers looked incredulous. Bevussa stared at him. Gold-ranks, that’s who. Captain Kam looked around and frowned.

“It’s fine. I’ll get closer and—”

“Hold your ground!”

The order came from Bevussa, a screech of fury. Kam stopped, flushing, and Bevussa swooped down, glaring.

“No one gets closer! I don’t care how fast you are or what dodging skills you have—even if it looks clear, you will not approach the Bloodfields, regardless of how the ground looks! You will keep your distance? Is that clear?”

“But we’re two miles away! This is ridiculous! We don’t need to be this far. Do we?”

One of the adventurer captains looked annoyed at this display of caution. Zassil, the Oldblood Drake on Bevussa’s team, snapped at him.

“That’s why we’re demonstrating this, Human!”

Bevussa ignored them. She swooped down towards where Yvlon was standing. The adventurers moved back as he stopped before Stan. He hadn’t tried loosing a bolt. He blinked at her as his team stared. Bevussa nodded at his side, her brilliant plumage blowing in the faint breeze.

“Crossbows, right? Mind if I borrow one?”

Stan started. He reached for the two crossbows at his side—Yvlon knew he had four more in his bag of holding. He could fire six bolts in a blink, hence his nickname.

“Of course, Captain Bevussa. Here.”

He offered her both crossbows. Bevussa took one and jumped up into the air. She looked down at the others.

“See that plant? Furthest from the right? Watch it.”

So saying, she flew towards it. The Garuda was fast, a speeding bullet in the air. Yvlon had only seen Bevussa’s max speed once during the baseball game and now she understood why the Gold-rank Captain was one of Pallass’ best. Bevussa closed the distance as fast as any bird, even with her armor, gear, and the crossbow’s weight. They saw her flying higher as she reached the edge of the crimson grass.

“She’s got to be at least three hundred feet up. What’s she worried about?”

Ceria glanced at Yvlon. The armored woman bit her lip. There were stories, but she didn’t know the specifics. Everyone was watching now, as Bevussa paused in the air. She was aiming, Yvlon guessed. But she was so tiny they couldn’t see when she fired.

They didn’t see the bolt strike the distant pillow-plant either. But what they did see was it pop. One second it was a bulb in the distance, the next—

“Dead gods! It exploded!”

It was so hard to see, but—Yvlon stared. A mass of red and black had erupted as the bulb burst. It flew into the air—like powder? No—it wasn’t spores. She saw it land, and then—movement. Bevussa was flying back quickly, but the Silver-rank adventures were transfixed.

The pillow-bulb had unleashed…something. But the adventurers took a few minutes to figure out what they’d seen. Then they realized what the squirming, moving mass was on the ground and several swore or blanched.

Bugs. So many that they’d filled the plant to bursting. They rained down, writhing, released from the crossbow bolt hitting their bulb. Now they were spreading out in a huge mass, visible even from here.

How many? Yvlon shuddered. She tried to imagine being covered in them. You’d inhale them. And if they bit or tried to get in your armor, your mouth—

Everyone was silent when Bevussa dropped down in front of Stan and handed him the crossbow back. She looked around, flew up again, and pointed with one wing towards the exploded bulb.

“Even if you fly, you will not get closer to the Bloodfields. That’s one reason why, and the least of your threats. Let me say it again: my one job is to explain to you how dangerous the Bloodfields is today. You’re all adventurers, but you need to understand.”

She gestured at the other pillow-structures. Now they seemed full of danger to Yvlon. Each one was a nest of insects? How did that even work? Yvlon felt a crawling sensation on her arms and shuddered. Bevussa was continuing her lecture.

“You walk by one of those living beds and it pops and those things will eat you alive faster than you can scream. That’s one of the Bloodfields’ fauna. Ever seen a Watchertree? They stand high up and ‘see’ anything that moves on the soil for a hundred, sometimes hundreds of feet around them. You can spot them by the bare ground around—that’s because their root system is killing anything in their area! And if you step on the ground, a root comes up and spears you! It can even go through unenchanted armor if the hit’s right!”

The Silver-ranks shifted. That sounded like a nightmare come to life! But Bevussa pointed out a nearly invisible, tall, tall plant in the distance. And it was indeed devoid of vegetation around it.

“There are monsters too. Blood slimes, vampiric spiders—there are animals, but all are adapted to live there and most are dangerous. Even the rabbits. That’s why you will all stay clear of the Bloodfields by at least two miles from the nearest visible edge, understand?”

“Captain Bevussa, is that safe? Would some monsters…pursue us out of the area?”

Kam raised her hand, looking worried. None of the adventurers were protesting Bevussa’s injunction now. If anything, Yvlon agreed. Were they too close? Bevussa shook her head.

“Most of the Bloodfields’ threats are stationary. The bugs, for instance, don’t pursue you that far. And the Watchertrees? Totally safe if you stay away. That’s why the radius is important. Frankly, you need to be worried about creatures living around the Bloodfields; there are monsters in the area. But we want to make sure you don’t wander close. Got it?”

Everyone nodded. Bevussa flew lower. Now her team took wing. The Wings of Pallass joined Bevussa and she pointed.

“I’m with you all just for today. I won’t be around to bail you out; I might be in the dungeon or unavailable. So we’ll be flying above, watching you. These are some [Scouts] from Liscor. [Pathfinders]—and [Master Builder] Reikhle is from Pallass. He’ll be helping determine which way we’ll be setting a path. Your job is to escort the [Scouts]; each team pair off with a scout and coordinate your path. They know where to go!”

Suddenly, it was work. And credit where credit was due; the Silver-rank teams might have been nervous from the threat of the Bloodfields, and new to Liscor, but they were still adventurers. Each captain began calling orders and Yvlon found Ceria and Ksmvr. They made their way to a Drake [Scout].

“Excuse me? I’m Ceria, Captain of the Horns of Hammerad.”

“Hissle. Don’t laugh. I’m a [Pathfinder]. Is this your team?”

Ceria nodded.

“There’s only three of us today; our fourth members’ occupied. Is that a problem? Should we double up?”

The Drake paused.

“Hm. Maybe. Let’s see what Captain Bevussa has to say. How fast is your team?”

“We can jog. Yvlon, you can keep up, right?”

“I can. Can you?”

Yvlon looked pointedly at Ceria. The half-Elf was the least in shape. She turned red.

“I’ve been running! Grimalkin’s been forcing me to do all kinds of lifts with those stupid weights—”

“Hey! That team! Yes, you! Thunder’s Solace? With the Horns of Hammerad! There! Partner up with Scout Hissle!”

Bevussa’s voice shouted from overhead. Yvlon winced, but Captain Alais and her team didn’t protest. Awkwardly, she made room for the other team and Hissle looked around.

“My name’s Hissle. Don’t laugh. I’m the [Pathfinder] tasked with the eastern side—we’ll be taking that route. It’s some climbing, but we’ll move as fast as you’re comfortable. Let’s confer before we get moving. Who has detection Skills? I’ll share point if there’s someone with similar Skills to mine. And who are the team captains? I know Captain Springwalker. And the other is…?”

“Alais. This is Thunder’s Solace. We have a [Tracker]. Ceria?”

Alais stepped forwards and Hissle shook her hand. Ceria shook her head.

“All we’ve got is Ksmvr. He’s fast, though. [Skirmisher]. And he can jump. Should we put him on the front?”

Hissle brightened up.

“I’d appreciate that. Extra security is nice. Uh—oh, one of the new Antinium? Are you painted?”

He looked at Ksmvr. The former Prognugator shook his head.

“I am a disgrace.”

“Uh—”

The [Pathfinder] looked at Ceria. She shook her head. He paused.

“Right then! Let’s get marching. We’ll sort out an order of movement and commands; for now, listen to me when I shout! If any of you see something suspicious, shout it out and everyone groups up, understand? If one of the Wings of Pallass shouts? Pay attention!”

The team took off. The [Scouts] moved on with the faster teams first—Yvlon’s group began a fast march after them. The Wings of Pallass watched from above. Their only job besides being backup was to teach the adventurers how to keep from getting too close to the Bloodfields by accident, and they did that rigorously.

And then it was just a job. Yvlon had done escort requests before, and while Hissle set a fast pace, he assured the adventurers this wouldn’t be their job the entire time.

“You’ll have to escort people clearing roads, even laying stones, perhaps. The Council hasn’t decided yet, but they want a good, fairly safe road. So you’ll get a slow pace. You just need to be on watch! You never know what’ll come up in the foothills or on the road. Mostly, I think it won’t be bad, but it’s the rare examples that calls for adventurers.”

“The Council’s spending a lot on this trade road.”

Ceria remarked as she, Yvlon, and Alais kept pace near the head of the group. Alais glanced at her; the Human woman was lost, but Yvlon and Ceria had gotten to know Liscor’s politics. And indeed, Hissle was more comfortable around them. He nodded as they climbed a rocky slope.

“Careful. Watch your step. Hold on—I need to map this. Our current area maps are good, but we want to be certain and to check there are no nests or hazards the [Map Makers] missed. Too bad an expert [Cartographer] didn’t come through here, but the Bloodfields aren’t exactly prime terrain. [Merchants] just go through the center in the winter, so…yeah, the Council’s got gold! Apparently the Antinium and the Walled Cities are donating a lot.”

He looked sideways at Ksmvr as he said that. The [Skirmisher] nodded helpfully.

“The Hive is rich.”

“How rich?”

“Well, my approximate understanding of our gold supply was—”

Ceria nudged Ksmvr. After a moment, Hissle went on, pointing ahead.

“Looks like the east has a viable path. Rocky in places, but there’s some good flat land. West is too grassy. I don’t like the odds of the Bloodfields or something spreading. Rocks? That damn stuff doesn’t like rocks by and large. We can cut a path going away from the Bloodfields just in case, then angle it once we’re well clear and shoot for Pallass. We might be on the winning path, folks.”

“It’s nearly four hundred miles from Liscor to Pallass. It’ll take years to do a route, surely?”

Yvlon was panting, sweating in her armor and the warm air. Hissle laughed.

“For a proper road, maybe. With stones and everything? Sure! But clearing a road and making sure two large wagons can roll unimpeded all the way? We can do that a lot faster. The Antinium have [Diggers] and our own teams can move dirt! [Merchants] will use this road if we do just that and ensure all the major hazards are out of the way.”

“Brave of them.”

Alais panted. Her team was wearing wood and chitin armor due to her imprecise control of lightning, but it was still heavy. Hissle called a halt to avoid them getting too winded.

“We’ll slow the pace. You need to be able to fight, after all. And is it brave, Captain Alais? I’ve seen [Merchant] caravan guards. They’re good! And they might even hire teams like yours to guard them.”

“Fair point. But looking at this, Hissle—it’s going to be a lot of work.”

They’d summited the rocky hill. Hissle nodded. Yvlon stared down and imagined someone having to shape the hillside to create a natural ramp a wagon could climb without extreme effort.

“It’ll be work. But paid work. And Pallass will help from their end too. In truth, we just need to get past the Bloodfields by about, oh, ten miles? Then we’ll hit Drake roads and we’re done! And Liscor will be connected to the south again.”

That did make it seem easier. And the tone in Hissle’s voice—Yvlon looked at him.

“You seem passionate about it, Hissle.”

He nodded.

“I volunteered to scout. Liscor wants the trade route, and so do I. I’m a native—grew up here. Served in the army, but not for long. I’ve been to Drake cities, though. The city needs it a lot more than Pallass does. Otherwise we can only trade by land when its late fall or winter. That’s why we’re called a border city, you know.”

He paused, staring across the landscape. In the distance, the Bloodfields were visible, a red stain on the land. All the teams were moving around it, searching for that path, east and west. Hissle stared darkly at the Bloodfields. Yvlon almost imagined she could see the red grass advancing, slowly, second by second, year by year.

“It didn’t use to be like this. There was a time when the Bloodfields were smaller. And they were less…active. But it’s growing. We should stop it for good, someday. But fire only makes it pause for a while.”

He shook his head.

“Come on. Let’s keep moving. I want to go a good distance before we report back. Shame we can’t use that teleportation door, but apparently it’s got a hefty mana limit. Just as well; I need to earn a living too!”



—-



On they went. Yvlon began chatting on the march; it helped with the work. And she found herself talking with Thunder’s Solace and Alais. You couldn’t help it. She didn’t make up with Caddin, but she was eventually comfortable enough to laugh at a joke around him, and he could talk to her without having to look away.

It was something. And Yvlon was used to disputes between teams. The incident in the Guild hadn’t even been bad; it could get nasty. Soon, she and Alais were telling Ksmvr about the ‘good old days’, and their rivalry between teams.

“That bull, Calruz, he was always a pain to deal with. You know Walt? He and Calruz nearly had both their teams throw down over a dispute one time. Stupid idiots. Stan, now Stan’s great to work with. He’s led a team for longer than all of us put together.”

“Why is he not a high-level adventurer, then, Captain Alais?”

The [Aeromancer] looked uncomfortable.

“Safety, maybe? Stan’s got two kids, Ksmvr. He doesn’t take huge risks; he takes jobs that don’t end in him being dead. Being an adventurer’s a career for him; he earns a good amount, more than most jobs, and he can take more breaks. It’s smart for him. I hear he’s got a lot saved up.”

“Ah. May I infer by your omission then, that Crossbow Stan is not married?”

“…Yeah. His wife left him.”

“I see. Why?”

“Ksmvr, why don’t we move ahead? I’ll explain to you why that’s a touchy subject and why you’re never allowed to ask Stan that.”

Yvlon smiled at Alais. Relieved she let Ksmvr and Yvlon move ahead. Ksmvr turned and Yvlon tried to explain heartbreak, infidelity, and the changing nature of affection to an Antinium who she was fairly certain had never been interested in the opposite sex. If there even one was besides his Queen. Wait—Ksmvr was male, right? She had seen him ‘nude’ and there wasn’t anything to actually see. He just wore clothing—

The Antinium was marching with Yvlon when she grew silent. He looked at her questioningly. Yvlon kept looking back at Ceria, laughing with Alais, and Thunder’s Solace. He looked at her arms, but she hadn’t been feeling at them.

“Is something wrong, Yvlon?”

Yvlon Byres hesitated. She bit her lip, looked at Ksmvr, and then spoke softly.

“Her name was Maise. But with an accent on the ‘e’. Maisé.”

“Who is Maisé?”

“My former teammate. Back when I was Captain of the Silver Spears.”

“Oh. I see.”

Yvlon shook her head. Her old friend’s face appeared in her mind. But the details were faded. It was harder to remember the exact curl in her hair, the way she stood. The sound of her voice. She went on. She’d never talked to Ksmvr about Maisé. But she had to now.

“She used a spear. We used to joke that she was the real leader of the Silver Spears since she was the only one on the team who actually used the weapon regularly.”

“I see.”

That was all he said. But he was listening. Yvlon looked at the Antinium.

“Did I ever tell you about the others?”

“No, Yvlon. You did not.”

She bit her lip and looked down. Veronika, Maisé, Dalia, and Samite. There had only been five of them, but they’d all been good. At least, Yvlon had thought so.

“Let me talk to you about them. For a bit. We were a team. Just last year. I wanted us to be like my brother’s team, the Silver Swords. We weren’t—we were good. That’s what I always thought. And if we kept training, if we got that one big windfall, we’d be Gold-rank. There were five of us. You see, back when I first wanted to become an adventurer—I knew Maisé growing up. She lived on Byres lands. We were always…”

She never forgot them. And she had never told anyone of how they died. She knew how Ceria had left her team. Fleeing, as Gerial bought her a moment of time. As her teammates fell around her. Calruz—disappearing, screaming as Skinner plucked his arm from his body. But Yvlon had been there too.

It haunted her dreams. Her failure. But now? Yvlon looked at Ksmvr. He listened to her every word. Trusted her. She looked back at Ceria, her friend, huffing as she ran along. Even Pisces. She wished he’d been here to bond with the other teams. But he was improving. She’d have a word with him, try to introduce him. She hoped Kam and the others would accept a [Necromancer].

She…had her team now. That was what mattered. But Yvlon still felt like she was back in the crypts sometimes. Watching her friends disappearing as they ran, fighting the undead, trying to reach for the surface.

I heard yours went down holding the line. If only that were entirely true. Was it cowardice, or practicality? Why was she the only one who’d made it? She was rich now. She had magical armor, a strong team…

But she hated it. Yvlon shook her head, realizing she’d fallen silent. She forced a smile at Ksmvr. He needed her, almost as much as she needed him.

“Hey, looks like we’re being called back. Let’s go join the others. And remember—no talking about Stan’s wife.”

“I will attempt to do so. May I talk about his children?”

It would get better. It had to. Without that, what did she have left? Yvlon laughed, and she joined her group. Her team. The infection would get better. It had to. She couldn’t let them down. Not again.



—-



The adventurers had all finished their scouting by evening. It had been a solid…eight hours of work? From morning to evening! Yvlon was tired, but pleasantly so. There hadn’t been much trouble; six of the teams had run into monsters and her team had encountered a deer. Ksmvr had shot it, his reasoning being that they had a bag of holding. It was fresh meat and it had been a welcome meal for lunch, if wild. Yvlon wondered if Erin could make something of it.

“Alright. The [Scouts] will confer and help pick the route. By tomorrow, we’ll be sending more scouts and beginning preparations to build an actual road! We’re not dallying around; Olesm, [Master Builder] Reikhle, and our other experts will be working all night on this one! But you all earned your pay! Good work!”

Bevussa called out and the Silver-rank teams cheered. Yvlon saw gold being passed out; even if was going to be split, it was a welcome sight. Ceria accepted hers and grinned, flashing some at Yvlon. Strange, how it was so good to see. They were rich. As soon as they got to Invrisil—

“Let’s get a drink, huh, guys? And some cake at Erin’s inn!”

The half-Elf called out to her team. But Alais stopped her as the teams began filing back towards the inn.

“Hey, Ceria. The team captains are going to have a drink in Liscor. Not your inn—somewhere private. Most of our teams will stay at the inn, but—you want to come? You and Yvlon?”

Ceria blinked. She looked at Yvlon. The armored woman stared at Alais. The [Aeromancer] was biting her lip and pointing. Stan, Kam, Walt—all of the team captains and some of the older adventurers were waiting in a small group by the door. Ceria hesitated.

“I uh—with all of you? What about?”

“Just—talking about the past. Recent events. Stan and I want to—all of us. If it’s alright. Your friend—Ksmvr?—can come. But we’d like to talk. The old crew.”

Yvlon looked at Alais’ flushed face. It couldn’t be easy to say that. Yvlon saw Ceria looking at her, her brows raised in silent inquiry. Yvlon hesitated, and then smiled. She reached out and touched Alais shoulder.

“I’d like that. Thank you.”

Alais looked up and smiled. Yvlon followed her with Ceria and Ksmvr to the other group. She looked at Walt, Kam, Stan—and all the others. And they nodded to her. She felt a strange sense of nostalgia. She felt welcomed again. She smiled.

“A drink? I know a good bar if we’re spending a lot of coin. If not, I know a few dives. Let’s hit the town; Erin’s got poor alcohol. Everything else is great, though. We’ll have a chat and then see a play and eat some cake.”

They laughed and agreed. Yvlon led the way through the magic door, smiling a bit. The adventurers left, closing the door, and leaving the grass, the wilderness in silence.

Up ahead, the Bloodfields rustled. The watching plants swayed in the breeze. The dark earth was silent. Few things moved. It was…almost inviting.

A dead bird lay on the ground, in a bare patch of land. It was freshly dead, an inviting meal. Some creatures might ignore the danger for a free snack like that. And indeed, one red russet fox, believing its fur coat was a good fit for the red grass, crept closer to the bird. It looked around, but the Bloodfields were silent.

There was no grass where the bird lay. And if the fox had been cautious—it missed the hole in the center of the body. It was food. So it darted ahead, rushing towards the bird, prepared to grab it and dart back into cover. It passed under the watchful aegis of a tall, thin plant. With a strange bulb near the top. The fox pattered forwards. It snatched the bird in its jaws.

A tendril stabbed out of the ground, spearing the foolish fox through the abdomen. It jerked—stopped moving. It’s blood ran onto the soil as the tendril lowered back into the ground. The dead fox’s corpse remained, to feed the soil and attract other unwary scavengers. The Watchertree absorbed the blood, its wide root system feasting.

Silence again. And death. All that lived here was made of the Bloodfields, or dangerous enough to resist the death here. The adventurers had gone. Food had gone. But food would be back. Few things dared to live around the Bloodfields. But what did live was dangerous. And the Bloodfields were just as deadly. Food would return.

The Bloodfields waited.





6.57


The Bloodfields waited. Yvlon Byres strode down the street towards The Wandering Inn with her team, following Bevussa Slenderscale, Captain of the Wings of the Pallass. That was, unless the Wings of Pallass were talking to Drakes in a walled city. To the investors and influential Drakes, Issa was in fact the team’s captain and Bevussa was the pretty Garuda, what a wonderful show of inclusivity, my word yes.

But while the Horns of Hammerad left the city, anyone with eyes and the ability to count would note that only three of them were walking together. The fourth member of the current team was conspicuously absent. Pisces, the [Necromancer], wasn’t among the adventurers. Nor, as Erin Solstice discovered, was he in her inn, studying, as was his wont.

In fact, he was walking through Liscor at the same time as his team, albeit removed from them. Pisces was walking next to a shorter Drake, whose light green scales were flashing in the sunlight. She was dressed colorfully, at odds with Pisces’ white, plain robes.

The two were walking together, talking. Arguing, perhaps, but still in each other’s company. They were going shopping.

“I don’t know why you’re so upset. It’s not as if I forced you to leave the inn. We’re on a small outing. It’s a favor to me. Can you not act as though I’m sacrificing your mother?”

Selys’ tone was annoyed as she glanced up at Pisces. He sniffed, a feature which all of his friends were well acquainted with. His tone was far more acerbic than hers.

“Of course. A simple excursion which merited dragging me away from my pressing studies!”

“You could have said no.”

The Drake reminded Pisces sharply. He paused and glowered, but then sullenly turned his head.

“I consider it a favor.”

“Well, then, be pleasant. Ancestors, why do you have to be so snippy? You’re like a child sometimes, you know that, Pisces?”

He inhaled, his cheeks flushing with outrage. The two were moving down the street, drawing amused or annoyed glances—mainly from Gnolls passing them by. The problem with a heated argument was that a Gnoll could follow it for at least a block or two if they didn’t tune it out. This one had been going for five minutes.

But unusually to anyone who knew Pisces, he didn’t respond with a scathing remark or look. Partly because Selys was more than capable of firing back. But partly because, well—he sighed.

“My apologies. I’ve simply been low on sleep these last few days, Selys.”

She nodded, accepting Pisces’ mild look of chagrin. There it was. The Pisces that few people could command to appear. It was like he had two faces, the sneering one he often presented, and the one who could actually apologize. That Pisces only appeared for his friends; everyone else had to work past the first Pisces. Few did. The two stopped arguing and settled down, slowing the pace of their walk.

“More undead construction issues? You kept moaning about how crossbow skeletons are impossible last time we talked.”

“What? Oh, that. That was an experiment. Partially successful I’ll have you know. But my current issues are far more complex. I ah, have two projects going on. Studying, really.”

“Stuck on another spell? It’s like [Mages] have to study all their lives just to use their fancy magic. Worse than [Warriors]. I couldn’t handle it.”

The [Necromancer] sniffed and caught himself. He shrugged awkwardly.

“It’s true that magic is extremely time-intensive, but a spell once learned is there forever, so long as your memory remains. Far better than muscles which turns to fat in no time, or so I feel. I’m not stuck either. On the contrary, I’m on the verge of a breakthrough. The techniques I’m studying are masterful. In a single creation! And there is a spell—but I have yet to master it. I am close! But it takes time and effort, which I am sadly wasting here.”

He glanced sideways at Selys, inviting some form of apology for the imposition. She was unfazed.

“Well, I won’t keep you long. Like I said, you volunteered. I could do this alone, but I don’t know much about magical items. If you really want, I can ask Ceria or maybe Moore—”

“Those two? Let’s not be imprudent. With respect to their talents, I am the most well-versed in enchantments and the economics of magical items.”

Pisces straightened his robes haughtily. Selys rolled her eyes, but she smiled. They were walking down one of the higher-end districts in Liscor, passing into a section far removed from Market Street, the quintessential spot for all your shopping needs. No, if everyone passed through Market Street for some reason or another in the course of a week, this street was reserved for more specific clientele.

It didn’t mean it was deserted; far from it! In fact, even at this time of day, people who weren’t working were gathered around the carts and wagons to browse. But while some would certainly come away with some trinkets, there were only a few big buyers, and the [Merchants] were waiting for each.

“Here we are. Trader’s End. Have you ever been here before?”

“Once or twice.”

Pisces observed the street with interest. Trader’s End was based in a northern section of the city, in a cul de sac that led off from a larger street. It was close to the gates, allowing [Traders], but more usually, [Merchants] to drive in their wagons and caravans for the day, park, conduct business, and then drive off when their work was finished.

However, contrary to the name, this wasn’t a place for mass-produced goods like fruits, or iron ore. It might have been once, but now this was the location to buy exotics. Liscor didn’t get a huge number of traders or merchants from north or south, and so all of them who did public business were here.

Selys could see specific wagons and [Merchants] all calling out, inviting the most well-dressed Gnolls and Drakes to peruse their goods. She’d been here three times now and she knew the score. The [Merchants] would do business with people who had enough coin for a few items—a broach, some cloth, an interesting item here or there—but they really wanted people like…her.

It was an odd thought. She was Selys Shivertail, [Heiress]. Selys still felt like the same old Selys who had to count her coins before going out partying. But now instead of mostly silver in the hidden bag at the back of her cupboard, she had a magical vault storing gold. A lot of gold.

“I take it the Heartflame Armor has continued to earn you revenue?”

Pisces was looking towards a [Merchant] selling books, and another who had magical items on display. Selys fidgeted, uncomfortable at mentioning it within Gnollish earshot.

“It’s not bad. Keldrass and his team rented the armor. I thought they’d stop when he got the Raskghar armor, but he stills pays me to let him wear it. Apparently it’s really helpful if they’re worried about traps.”

“No doubt it is also a matter of vanity.”

“No doubt. And I had gold already; I didn’t spend too much. So…I’m looking for some stuff. Protections, like I told you. I’m getting a bit worried, you know? I mean, I’ve got a vault, but what about me?”

Pisces nodded, glancing at Selys. She wasn’t exactly an adventurer, and she’d had one experience of being kidnapped. More than that, she’d survived any number of disasters around Liscor and she hadn’t decided on this shopping trip lightly. He made a gesture towards the waiting wagons.

“Well then, I suppose my presence is warranted. Have you any specific [Merchant] in mind?”

“Oh yes. He sent a message saying he was in the area. I’ve bought from him before and I think he’s fairly trustworthy. But you’re here to help me get the best deals. He’s right there. I think he sees us, actually. Try to be polite, Pisces.”

“One can attempt even the impossible.”

Selys tried not to smile. She did enjoy Pisces’ comments. Still, she gave him a warning glance and walked forwards. The [Merchant] was already spreading his arms in welcome, and Selys saw a familiar seat had been pulled up. Farri Slightly, the thirty-something year old [Merchant], was smiling as he stepped forwards to greet Selys.

“Miss Selys Shivertail, it is a delight to see you! I’m so glad you had a chance to peruse my wares—come, sit! Is this your friend? Another chair, and a cup! Hello, hello!”

“Hello, Farri.”

The [Heiress] grinned as the [Merchant] turned to Pisces, giving him a full-toothed smile in the fashion of the Drakes. Pisces hesitated, and then took the proffered hand, shaking it and murmuring his name. Farri had both seated in an instant. He was, to Selys, something of a friend.

“You do make the extra trip to Liscor worth it, Miss Shivertail. It’s all about cost, you know, but one good client makes up for a great number of miles. I hope all the objects I’ve sold you are working well?”

“Very well. I especially liked the cooling charm in my room. It doesn’t work all night, but it’s just enough to get me to sleep.”

Selys leaned back, accepting a glass from a pitcher that Farri poured himself. Pisces blinked as he was offered another goblet. Farri peered at Pisces, smiling still.

“And who is your friend? An adventurer?”

“Oh, this is Pisces. He’s a [Mage], actually. I brought him along because I was hoping to buy some of those protection-type items we were discussing last time, Farri.”

The [Merchant]’s face instantly grew more guarded. He smiled at Pisces; the [Necromancer] gave him a polite smile back.

“Well, I’m charmed! An adventurer, did you say? What rank? Silver? Gold?”

“Silver. I am, in fact, a member of the Horns of Hammerad. Perhaps you’ve heard of our conquest of Albez?”

Selys felt just a twinge of unease. Oh no, he was doing it again. Farri blinked and paused.

“I—can’t say I have. But then, I haven’t heard of the latest adventuring accomplishments. A successful dungeon run, was it? My sincere congratulations.”

“It was in fact a few months—”

Pisces shut up as Selys’ tail flicked over to slap at the back of his legs. Farri paused, and Pisces, flushing, went quiet. Selys sighed.

“I trust his judgment, Farri. Pisces graduated from Wistram. He’s just here to give me advice.”

“Oh? Oh, a Wistram [Mage]? Naturally, that’s the best source. By all means, its small wonder you’d ask for that kind of advice. Well, if its magical protections you’d like, why don’t I bring out a display? Unless you had something in particular in mind?”

Looking only a bit flustered, Farri gestured to one of his helpers selling from the wagon and Selys saw the Drake disappear inside. The [Merchant] smiled at Selys; Pisces was impassive. Selys tried to poke his ankle with her tail, but she missed.

“I’m not sure what the best item is, Farri. Really, I’m just…worried about my protection. And my stuff. I know the vault you gave me is great, but what about me? My home? Not to mention monsters and such. If you had any—any good items, I’d love to know. Pisces, you too.”

The [Necromancer] paused, and Farri’s eyes brightened.

“Well, that is a range of objects. And I see we have some coming out now! Bear in mind that I have a larger stock—I can even ask for some of the very expensive items I don’t dare bring on the road be sent via Courier. I assume you don’t wish to spend too much gold, Miss Selys?”

“Well—I have a bit to spend.”

Selys squirmed. She knew how much Farri charged and how much she had. She didn’t earn a lot of gold even renting out her armor, not by the standards of magical item sales. But Farri was smiling and nodding understandingly.

“Completely understandable! Well, let’s begin with some simple but decisive items. For instance, how about this ring? A standard among adventurers. An Arrowguard Ring. Guaranteed to deflect one arrow before needing time to recharge.”

He offered Selys a little ring and she leaned forwards. Now this was exciting. She’d always come to see magical items like this before, but now she was actually able to buy some. She peered at the little arrow carved into the ring. Pisces inspected it, sipping from his cup. The ring was wooden, but someone had filled the arrow with gemstone, and it sparkled green.

“It’s pretty! But it’s made of wood—is that bad? I know more common materials don’t hold enchantments well.”

She was a [Receptionist] for the Adventurer’s guild, and she’d picked up a few things, even if that wasn’t her forte. Farri dismissed her concerns with a wave of the hand.

“For a powerful enchantment, certainly, but wood augmented with this cat’s eye—see the subtle line in the gem?—is more than adequate. It’s yew, in fact, which actually aids with the sympathetic magic. I don’t pretend to know all the details, but anything short of a Skill-augmented shot or one from point-blank will swerve upon hitting you.”

“Oh, that is good. And it recharges?”

Farri smiled.

“Only naturally! You can certainly afford this one, Miss Selys. It takes about three days or so to recharge on ambient mana, but that’s more than enough time, unless you’re being shot at regularly, isn’t it?”

“I suppose.”

She was nodding, but both the Drake and Farri were watching Pisces out of the corner of their eyes. His face was impassive, so Farri went on after the slightest of pauses.

“I can recommend you this ring to start with. It’s low in magical interference, so let’s say you have this ring to start with. And then we’ll add—”

“Ludicrous.”

Pisces’ voice interrupted the [Merchant] flatly. Selys felt her tail curl reflexively. Farri stopped. He turned to Pisces, raising his brows politely.

“Ah, you had an objection, Mister Pisces?”

“An objection? You could say so, yes. Or rather, contempt for the farcical nature of offering Selys that bauble with any actual intent of guarding her wellbeing.”

Pisces placed the cup down and leaned forwards. He gave Farri a dismissive look and sniffed. Selys closed her eyes. Damn it. Then she opened them and glared at Pisces warningly.

“Pisces, what are you talking about? The ring looks fine to me! Farri just offered it to begin with—”

“I’m well aware. But it’s still a disingenuous offer, Selys. Allow me to explain.”

The [Necromancer] pointed to the ring as he lifted his own hand. On his fingers sat two rings, both magical. He pointed to one—and Farri winced.

“This is a true Arrowguard ring, Selys. Our estimable [Merchant], Mister Farri, must have missed it on my person. It can deflect multiple arrows, recharges in the span of a day, and has saved my life before. I can well imagine that it would cost you a considerable amount of gold if you were to buy it—which would be a foolish idea. I could lend you the ring, but it would be as useless to you as the ring sitting before you.”

Selys stared at Pisces. His tone was beyond condescending, but it wasn’t aimed at her. Farri was reddening.

“Why?”

Pisces flicked his hand dismissively.

“Simply because Arrowguard Rings aren’t useful to you, Selys. Consider this. You, if you had my ring, could avoid an arrow shot by an average [Bowman]. Or even three or four such arrows! It would protect you from assassination, yes?”

“That’s the point. So?”

“So? How will you avoid the fifth arrow? Let alone fight or avoid this would-be attacker?”

Selys paused.

“Well, I’d have another ring, obviously. Right, Farri?”

“Absolutely. I have a number of them, in fact. All complimentary.”

Pisces sneered. He looked at Selys and shook his head.

“Why do you need them, Selys? Consider this: who is out to shoot you? Kidnap you, perhaps. Mug? Yes, again. But how many enemies with bows are going to loose arrows at you in the course of your incredibly dangerous job? And with that said, what will this ring avail you in a combat situation besides saving you from one arrow and nothing more?”

He had a point. But the way he made it was so classically Pisces—Selys bit her tongue and her tail lashed angrily as Farri held up a hand. He looked stiffly at the [Necromancer] as he swept the ring back.

“I can see your point, Mister Pisces. However, I can assure you that this is a precaution many of my clients take—[Assassins] are more frequent in Human lands—”

“Then why one ring which cannot deflect Skill-based shots? If the goal is to protect, that ring is useless for all but the most middling adventurers. Subpar, for any actual protection; I cannot imagine a single client fearful of assassination that would actually buy that particular ring. If you have a better stock, let us see that, or nothing at all.”

The [Merchant] was turning even redder. That was it, Selys stood up before Farri could lose his polite façade or his caravan guards or helpers could jump in. Pisces wasn’t keeping his voice down and Farri’s embarrassment was being broadcasted in a wide arc. The Drake [Receptionist] turned to Pisces and spoke in a tight voice.

“Farri, please excuse me for a moment. Pisces, would you come with me?”

“Certainly, Miss Selys.”

Farri nodded tightly to her. Selys glared at Pisces. He was reaching for his cup, but he got up and followed her down the street. She saw Farri sitting still before she whirled and glared at Pisces.

“What was that? What the hell was that, Pisces?”

He raised his brows.

“Excuse me? I was simply expressing my genuine opinion—”

Selys’ claw poked straight through his robes and into his chest. He yelped in pain and tried to retreat. She advanced, tail lashing.

“Don’t lie. That was the rudest you’ve ever been! Farri is a friend of mine! He helped me the first time I was here—”

“Oh, how altruistic. No doubt he did it out of goodwill—”

“Shut up! Why did you bite his head off with the first ring?”

Pisces raised his hands, glaring back at Selys.

“It was a worthless ring, Selys! The man was clearly trying to offload a semi-worthless ring onto you—”

“So? That’s what [Merchants] do! I wasn’t going to buy it! You’re here to help me make those decisions!”

“Well, I expedited that process. So?”

The young man folded his arms, looking infuriatingly wounded. Selys was so furious she could barely speak. She looked down and stomped—Pisces drew his foot back in time.

“You idiot! You were being the most egg-headed, Ancestors-damned—you know what you did! That wasn’t polite, and that wasn’t fair. Do you just hate Farri? Is that it? Did he slap you when I wasn’t looking? If you used that tone on Erin or insulted her half as much, she’d punch you and kick you out of her inn!”

Pisces turned red. He folded his arms defensively, and his tone became even more arch.

“I’m simply expressing my opinion. Should I mince words? I’ve seen people like your ‘friend’, Farri, Selys. They can be as charming as they want. But I have my opinion and I know I am correct. This is who I am.”

Selys strode forwards and poked Pisces—he retreated again, looking angrier himself.

“Oh yeah? Well, it’s annoying. No one likes it! I know you can be better than that, Pisces. You don’t call me an idiot three times for having a stupid thought or I wouldn’t speak to you!”

“Well, that’s because I respect your opinion. And it was not always that case! Should I be warm and genuine to everyone?”

“It’d help if you tried!”

Selys knew people were watching them argue. She should have taken this further away, but her cheeks were hot and she was close to hissing at him. Pisces looked equally displeased. He sniffed again.

“Would you have me pretend to be someone else? To falsify my true nature?”

“Yes!”

The word exploded from Selys’ mouth. That caught him off-guard. Pisces paused and looked sideways at Selys. He opened his mouth, but she poked a claw at him.

“Don’t look at me as if I’ve grown a second tail! Listen to me.”

She took a deep breath, calming herself. When she spoke, she spoke as if she was a [Receptionist], lecturing a new coworker, or an adventurer.

“You’re insufferable. No, be quiet. You are. You know it. I know it. You have the most abrasive personality in the entire world because you do it on purpose. You don’t behave like a person around anyone you don’t like. But guess what? That’s childish. You don’t like acting nice? Everyone acts, Pisces.”

She saw him opening his mouth, but she kept rolling. Give Pisces a moment and he’d derail or deflect. He was very good at that. But Selys had grown up with Tekshia Shivertail and you couldn’t say a word if you didn’t learn how to talk over someone.

“Erin does it, Lyonette—everyone from little Mrsha to my grandmother! You think Erin doesn’t hate some people’s guts, or Mrsha’s always cute and cuddly? She does it to get spoiled and get attention!”

“Erin or Mrsha?”

Selys nearly laughed, but she kept glaring.

“That’s very funny. But don’t change the subject! I act all the time whenever I have to deal with an obnoxious adventurer, or one who keeps sniffing and calling everyone idiots using big words! I know you can be charming, Pisces. I’ve seen you do it! You can be likable if you try!”

She looked at him. He hesitated and uncrossed his arms.

“Well, of course I can be. But this—”

She cut him off again.

“I don’t care. I really don’t, Pisces. You know you’re doing it on purpose and all it makes you is enemies. It might be work. So what? Being your friend is a lot of work, especially right now. Do you understand?”

She looked at him pleadingly. And this time she saw Pisces flush. He looked away, genuinely embarrassed. Selys reached out and grabbed his arm.

“Just try. Be nice. Don’t do it to people you like. Start with likable and just keep going! Please? I’m going back to Farri. You can leave if you want, but I’d appreciate you being there.”

She turned around, heart beating fast, embarrassed, but feeling better for saying it. She began to walk slowly back towards Farri. She was hoping—listening—

After four steps, Pisces caught up with her. He adjusted his robes, face flushed. Selys looked at him. He hesitated, and ducked his head.

“Let me speak first, please. Was—was that a Skill, by any chance?”

He looked at her. She smiled and wagged her tail a bit.

“[Incisive Comment]. Useful for a [Receptionist] getting something into a thick-head’s skull. I do have some Skills, you know.”

He smiled slightly. As Selys returned to Farri, she saw Pisces square his shoulders. For a moment he looked pained, then, as Farri stood up, Pisces strode forwards. He gave Farri a sincere look of regret and bowed.

“Mister Farri, please allow me to apologize.”

“What?”

The [Merchant] looked as startled as Selys. She watched as Pisces, bowing apologetically, held up his hands.

“I just had a conversation with Selys. I must apologize for my behavior. I mistook you for—well, Selys has explained how much you’ve helped her out. I was concerned on her behalf, and I confess I’ve met too many [Merchants] of bad character before. But I came here ready to pick a fight and—I sincerely beg your forgiveness.”

Farri was taken aback. He looked at Selys, and she closed her mouth and gave him a nod just in time. The [Merchant] blinked, and then smiled slightly.

“No harm done! I was about to apologize myself, Mister Pisces. You had a point—although it was slightly painful. The ring is fairly hard to place, but I offered it to Miss Selys as an opening bid—why don’t we sit? Something else to drink? Let us restart our conversation.”

“Thank you.”

Pisces nodded and sat down. Selys shot him a glance as she sat too and Farri fussed over their cups. He was sitting forwards, not with that kind of false sincerity you saw in desperate young Gnolls and Drakes on a first date, the kind that reeked of fake attention, but simply alert. If it was an act—

“Well, I have to admit, the rings are a tricky sale. You need multiple complimentary effects to ward against a number of threats. But it’s a tried and tested method for any adventurer. But I can see you are thinking of Miss Selys specifically. And you do know something about enchantments.”

Farri was speaking as he reached for his cup and drank a bit. Selys did too. Pisces nodded. He spread his hands.

“Without disrespect, Merchant Farri—yes. I am a [Mage] of Wistram, as I said. And I studied enchanting; it’s not a false claim to state that I know synergistic uses of enchantments. Selys asked me to accompany her and I accepted; as much to deter her from making a poor purchase. I’m sure you know about the kind of deals a [Merchant] can force with their Skills? I’m not accusing you of using any, but as I said, I was prepared for it.”

The [Merchant] nodded slowly, assessing Pisces. He was watching the young man as carefully as Selys was out of the corner of her eyes. He didn’t quite buy Pisces’ sudden new demeanor as well.

“Fair, fair. And you are her, ah, friend?”

His tone left a huge room for Selys to insert any modifier she choose. The Drake didn’t choose to do so. Pisces nodded.

“A friend, yes. The same one who wants her to spend all the gold she needs on personal protections, but not on her friends. Or me. Or on poor spells or ones where she pays ten times its actual worth.”

He said that with such conviction that even Selys was impressed. And Farri—both Pisces and Selys saw his eyes flick to a ring on his finger. Selys saw nothing, but he apparently did. And from the way he smiled—

But of course Pisces was telling the truth. He had the Horns of Hammerad’s windfall, the same that had given Selys a lot of her money.

“You are fairly wealthy yourself, sir, if my Skills don’t betray me. Still, that’s a sincere statement.”

The [Merchant] was clearly analyzing him as he’d done to Selys the first time and what he saw impressed him. He gestured to his wagons.

“Go on then, Mister Pisces—or may I call you Pisces? My wares are free for your perusal. If you object to the standard protections, what would you say Miss Shivertail requires in the way of security?”

It was a challenge, albeit a polite one. Pisces nodded. He leaned forwards, resting his chin on two fingers and looked at Selys and Farri together.

“I’ll be brief. Selys, you came here for personal protections. My thoughts on the matter are as follows. Firstly, Selys, you don’t need some elaborate ward system on your home. It’s too expensive to install, overkill for a low-level [Thief] and a master will slip through the gaps. And there are always gaps, believe me. Unless you paid for an expert [Wardmaster] or [Enchanter]—it’s pointless. However, that’s actually to your benefit because what you need to protect is so concentrated.”

He raised three fingers and ticked them off.

“You have three things of value you need protecting. Firstly, your gold. I’ve seen your magical vault and there are better versions you could acquire, or more static defenses you could add. Secondly, you need personal enchanted items. But not necessarily rings. Lastly, anti-theft measures for the Heartflame Breastplate. That last will be the most difficult by far, but I see Merchant Farri has all you need in the way of personal protections.”

Selys and Farri both raised their brows. Selys nodded.

“That’s a good point, Pisces. I didn’t think about it, but my home doesn’t have anything too important in it. But if you don’t mean rings, then what?”

The [Necromancer] smiled.

“I may be wrong, but my first instinct is potions and a wand. Perhaps one magical item. Mister Farri, your thoughts?”

The [Merchant] was nodding. Selys wasn’t sure what was so intelligent about what Pisces had said; it seemed obvious to her if not rings, but Farri gave Pisces a friendly smile.

“Single-use or rechargeable? Self-charging?”

“Rechargeable?”

Pisces actually laughed, and not in a condescending way. Farri laughed too, and nodded.

“Let me get some. I think I see your point, Pisces.”

He stood up and hurried into his wagon. Selys raised her brows and Pisces shook his head as he leaned over to explain.

“A common misconception. Most people would prefer to buy a rechargeable item that can be used again and again, but such items are vastly more expensive than a single-use item, and if you’re not a [Mage], recharging them is tedious! Far better to buy a single-use invisibility item.”

He gestured back to the wagon. Farri was nodding, and he’d already come back. This time he had a catalogue of neatly written potions and items. He stood next to Pisces as the [Necromancer] showed her the list.

“Given the threats to you, Selys, I would recommend a custom-made potion that turns you invisible or better yet, gives you an armored effect as well as defends you. A simple point-and-use wand would also be appropriate. You don’t need rings. If you’re in danger of assault or another monster attack, you can use the items once and replenish them.”

“Fair enough. So what’s good? And why can’t I get this from Octavia?”

“She doesn’t make the type of advanced potions you would need.”

Farri was nodding.

“I buy from Pallass as well as the best [Alchemists]. Some potions even come from other continents! I personally recommend an invisibility potion. And a stone skin potion?”

Pisces was nodding.

“Given that Miss Selys is sometimes in the company of others, though, I think a Scroll of Lesser Teleport bound to, say, her home would be most useful, Merchant Farri. When I am solvent myself, it will be one of the first items I suggest my team purchase.”

“And for a wand? [Arrow of Light]?”

“Not powerful enough. The Watch is fairly competent in Liscor. If Selys is worried about low-level threats, she should carry a Tripvine bag and a whistle. Or just scream for help. Inexpensive. Given that monsters seem to assail Liscor with distressing frequency—do you have a Wand of [Forcewalls]? Or perhaps a Wand of [Lightning Bolts]?”

Farri inhaled and Selys sat up.

“Those are expensive wands. I have both, as it happens. But isn’t that fairly overkill?”

Pisces smiled grimly.

“Have you heard about Skinner, Merchant Farri? I don’t believe wands are enough of a safeguard myself. Rather, I think what Selys needs is a few of Erin’s acid jars in her bag of holding, all the items I listed—and a wand that will be useful in such situations. For her everyday comfort? Simply a tracking spell woven into her bag of holding if it doesn’t have one already. We must save the most money for her Heartflame Armor; I’m surprised [Thieves] haven’t gone after it already, but Liscor is a poor home for the truly powerful thief gangs. Tell me, are you familiar with Seer’s Lodestone dust? The kind that never fades? Rather than prevent, I would prefer to find if someone takes her possessions.”

The man paused and Selys looked up. Farri nodded slowly. He looked respectful, and Pisces paused to let him reply. The [Merchant] eyed Pisces, and then smiled.

“If I might say so, your spending ability matches Miss Shivertail’s, Mister Pisces. I’m counting—is it a joint fund for your team?”

“Prying, Merchant Farri?”

Pisces seemed amused. Farri smiled and bowed a bit from the waist.

“A [Merchant] does what one must.”

The young man shook his head.

“I’m afraid I cannot spend anything myself. My team does have some money. But we’ve not yet converted it to gold—”

“A task I’m all too willing to handle myself. And if that’s not convenient, we can also witness a very fair deal at the Merchant’s Guild where I issue you, say, twenty percent credit of what I think you’re able to spend?”

The man didn’t wait for Pisces to respond. He clapped his hands and his assistants rushed out. He smiled at Pisces and Selys.

“Ah, but I forget my client! Miss Selys, pardon me. Allow me to bring out some of my rarer potions and outline some you may be interested in. Potions, scrolls—and er, what was this you mentioned about acid jars?”



—-



She still couldn’t tell if he was acting. Selys glanced sideways at Pisces as the two strolled back down the street. Nearly three hours had passed, and they’d passed quickly! Selys’ bladder was a bit full, but she had enjoyed herself. She looked sideways at Pisces as he walked beside her. He wasn’t scowling and he hadn’t dropped the good-natured, neutral expression he’d worn after bidding Farri goodbye.

“He didn’t manage to make you buy anything.”

“No. And I’m quite surprised I got away. Almost as much as he was!”

Pisces chuckled to himself. Selys was impressed too; Farri had his Skills and he’d sold Selys nearly twelve hundred gold’s worth of items, all of which would be delivered to her apartment; he was adding the tracking charm to her bag of holding.

It had been a successful outing. Pisces was nodding to himself, clearly pleased at his efforts. His throat was a bit hoarse, but he walked along, chatting much more lightheartedly than this morning.

“A fair [Merchant], I think. Ultimately self-interested, but fair to his clients. Did you see him glancing at his hand?”

“I did, but I didn’t see a truth stone flashing.”

The [Necromancer] smiled knowingly.

“I believe he painted over one of the gems. The one on his ring finger? He concealed it so it would only shine towards him. Clever.”

He chuckled to himself. Selys had to pause and check her tail. Then she looked at the young man thoughtfully.

“You know, Pisces, you’re very likable when you try to be.”

He paused.

“I suppose I made an effort today.”

“More than that. I think Farri actually liked talking to you, and that was after your first encounter! Was it an act?”

The [Necromancer] flicked his fingers.

“The best act is genuine emotion, Selys.”

“That doesn’t answer my question. Fine. Be mysterious. But why don’t you do that all the time? You’d be popular if you tried!”

Hadn’t Ceria once mentioned that Pisces had once been that likable? Selys remembered Erin relating some of his history. But the young man just shook his head and some of his cheer faded.

“Not everyone is worth the effort.”

“Maybe more people would be if you tried. You didn’t hate Farri, did you? Be honest. Or do I have to buy a truth ring?”

Pisces hesitated.

“I suppose he was a good man. As far as [Merchants] go. I have met poor ones. And he was…decent. Yes. Perhaps I did. But as I said, not everyone…”

They walked out of Trader’s End, moving back towards The Wandering Inn to the eastern gates, but really ambling, talking. The street was lively and Selys saw people going to and from work. Some hunted, others mined the safe deposits at the base of the High Passes…Liscor wasn’t rich and it did have to import at times. But there was wealth to be had here. The Floodplains could feed a large population of animals, mostly wild, and as such, the wary [Hunter] or [Trapper] could feast on Razorbeaks, birds, Corusdeer—so long as they avoided Rock Crabs.

“It’s just that I don’t see the need to put on a front when the act of repelling someone precludes further conversation that would be meaningless. Moreover, it is far simpler for fools to dislike me rather than assume false affection and be twice-scorned and even more vengeful.”

“Then don’t scorn them, Pisces. What’s so hard about that?”

“I cannot abide fools, Selys. And sometimes, the objectionable actions of some halfwits simply pulls it out of me—”

“Every second of the day?”

They passed by a pale-scaled Drake chatting with a Centaur. It was such an odd sight Selys had to look twice. Pisces was still talking and didn’t notice. Selys stared at the Centaur. He had something in his mouth. A tube? No, a cigar. She’d seen some adventurers and rich Drakes smoking the stuff, but it was pricey! And the Watch had a dim view of most drugs; not that Liscor was exactly thriving in the black market. But that might change.

“So you’re going to help Liscor expand the road to Pallass, huh? That’ll mean we get a lot more visitors and trade year-round. As it is, we get lots of traffic from the south during the fall and winter, and sporadic traffic all year from the Humans.”

Pisces sniffed, but lightly as he munched on a Gnoll-treat. Not the hamburgers Erin had introduced like a plague onto the street vendors, but a simple Gnoll treat—different cuts of meat, all cooked to various degrees, cushioned in a bit of wrapping paper. You ate slice by slice or an entire meaty bite; Selys snagged a cut of pork and chewed it happily. Drakes and Gnolls, being mostly carnivorous, didn’t go for bread as much as Humans. Pisces sighed.

“Ceria did mention she was scouting out the Bloodfields. Another activity I’ll be forced to take part in, I suppose. Clearing a trade route to Pallass is a temporary occupation. Needlessly tedious for how much it pays, but it will keep my team busy. In truth, once the Halfseekers finally get to Invrisil we will be spending some time there.”

Selys paused and looked at him.

“That’ll take a bit. But when it happens, it’ll be as far as Pallass, right? Hard to visit.”

Pisces paused, chewing, and shrugged.

“Not too difficult. We can simply charge the door. But yes—I imagine we will attempt to take more requests around Invrisil. There simply isn’t much high-level work around Liscor besides the dungeon.”

“Right. And you’re not going into the dungeon.”

“Yes.”

“Well—that’ll be fun. Maybe I’ll visit Invrisil. I’ve been meaning to visit Pallass, but with the mana constraints on the door—”

Pisces blinked, and then nodded a bit.

“Yes. Yes, I’m sure Erin would want to visit too. And it is a notable city to visit. When that day comes, I will certainly suggest the idea. But with the Halfseekers—”

They wandered left, down a street. This time Pisces spotted a Minotaur and nudged Selys. The huge bull-person was studying a display of books, ignoring the looks from Drakes and Gnolls around him. She gasped.

“There’s another Minotaur in Liscor? I had no idea! Do you think he knows about Calruz?”

“She. And one imagines someone has told her by now.”

“No. She?”

Selys was incredulous. Pisces coughed, looking amused.

“Note the mammaries?”

It took Selys a moment to figure out what he meant. Then she stared.

“Breasts? Oh. I thought they were just uh, muscles for a second. She looks like Calruz!”

Pisces snorted, averting his gaze as they walked away from the Minotaurs lest she hear. He glanced absently at her.

“Minotaurs are rather statuesque. I gather there’s no physical difference between their genders in terms of body mass. Like Gnolls and Garuda. However, I’m amazed you didn’t notice the obvious.”

She slapped his leg with her tail, grinning.

“That’s not where Drakes look first. We check out the tail. And that’s not a feature most Drakes have like…well, like Humans!”

“But Drakes are mammals. They have live births and ah, the same reproductive basics as Humans to most extents, despite your relationship with Dragons. I always wondered why you called your young ‘hatchlings’.”

The Drake eyed him for a long moment.

“…How do you know that?”

“I study dead bodies for a living, Selys. What would you expect?”

“Well—it’s creepy that you know so much. And we honor our Ancestors or something. What should we call them? Scalelings? Actually…”

Pisces snorted. He’d finished his snack and was absently tucking the bit of trash in his bag of holding. Selys smelled something foreign on the wind. The Centaur she’d seen earlier trotted by her. Still smoking on the whatever-it-was. It smelled almost sweet to her, but the smoke made her wave at her face. Pisces frowned as the Centaur trotted past.

“There’s another thing I didn’t think I’d see. Minotaur, Centaur—all we need now is a Gazer or a Fraerling and we’ve nearly seen all the species if you add in Pallass.”

Selys commented to Pisces, but he wasn’t listening. He sniffed the air as the Centaur passed by. Selys coughed. There was something…foreign about the smell coming from whatever he was smoking. Totally different from wood smoke. Pisces frowned after the Centaur, and then glanced at the pale Drake hurrying after him.

“Hm. A Selphid and a Centaur? I wonder if they’re mercenaries? Both are…[Mages].”

“A Selphid? Are you sure? She could be pale-scaled. It must be a Baleros team or something. Hey, if they appear in the Adventurer’s Guild I’ll tell you about it. Speaking of which—how’s Jelaqua? You said the Halfseekers aren’t making any progress getting to Invrisil. Is it because of her and Maughin?”

Pisces nodded, refocusing on Selys.

“As I understand it, Seborn is taking issue with Jelaqua’s ongoing relationship with Maughin. He dislikes working while she enjoys herself. Rather seriously, it seems.”

“But all they have to do is walk. What’s got his tail in a twist? No, wait. I think I know. It could be because he’s a former [Pirate]. They’re touchy about stuff like that. They’re not [Sailors]. In fact, some crews have tyrannical [Captains], but others will revolt rather than let someone do that to them.”

Pisces blinked as Selys came out with that. He looked at her sideways, much the same way Farri had glanced at him.

“You know a lot about a seafaring class for someone who has never left Liscor.”

“I study up on classes. It’s my job. You’re not the only person with useless trivia.”

“Hardly useless. But I agree—it’s somewhat personal to Seborn. Frankly, I think he simply resents the prospect that it might be serious. And the discord it causes with Moore—”

“Poor Moore. I heard him talking about finding someone.”

“One can hardly miss it, given his natural volume.”

“Don’t you dare let on you know—”

“Do I look like Drassi, pray?”

The two were laughing when Selys paused. She looked around, struck by a thought. Ahead of her, a Drake was walking besides a young woman with a hood thrown up on her head. They were the only people on the street; Selys looked around, frowning. The Drake passed her by, his back straight, and Selys glanced around surreptitiously. But no one was nearby. Even so, she walked a bit closer to Pisces.

“Um, Pisces. When the Horns go to Invrisil, I was thinking. It’s um—about my class. And the breastplate. If you’re heading north—well, it could be south too, or far, far away. But I think it’s on Izril—can we talk in private?”

She hadn’t told anyone this, not even Pisces yet. But he’d helped her with the Heartflame Breastplate. The [Necromancer]’s eyes sharpened and he glanced around like she had to telltale Gnolls. But then he paused.

“We are alone.”

He stopped slowly. And Selys did too. At first she didn’t know what the odd tone in Pisces’ voice was. But then she looked around and realized he was right. The street was empty. Almost completely empty, but for a few people, like the Centaur trotting ahead of them and the two they’d just passed. Selys stared around.

“That’s not right. Where’s everyone gone? You can’t find an empty street in Liscor for gold—oh no, do you think Erin’s done something again?”

Pisces was frowning. He looked around, and then turned to squint ahead. Selys was about to suggest they check on Erin when a voice called out from behind.

“Pisces Jealnet?”

Pisces turned his head slightly. Selys saw him glance distractedly at speaker. It was the Drake. Selys paused. And then her eyes widened.

“Did he say—”

Selys saw Pisces’ head whip round. He stared at the Drake who’d spoken. The Drake had turned in the street. He was staring at Pisces. His scales were dark black with a hint of blue in them. His gaze was direct. He bared his teeth as his companion, hooded, stepped back.

“Pisces Jealnet. Son of Padurn Jealnet, [Fencer]. Ex-[Mage] of Wistram. Expelled. Wanted for multiple crimes. Is that you?”

And suddenly, Selys felt a bell ringing in her head. She didn’t have [Dangersense]. But she didn’t need to. She looked around and suddenly saw something. Down the street, the Centaur and Selphid had turned. The Selphid was wearing a female Drake’s body. The Centaur exhaled, the dark smoke trickling upwards. Selys turned back and saw another figure walking around a corner.

The Minotauress. She strode forwards. And her eyes were locked on Pisces.

“Pisces—what’s going—”

“Get behind me.”

He whispered. Selys saw his hand reaching for his side. Towards his rapier—she heard a curse.

It was missing. He hadn’t come with her prepared for a fight. And—Selys realized as her own claws drifted towards her belt—her bag of holding was with Farri. She backed up, staring at the Centaur and Selphid behind them.

The street was empty but for Pisces, Selys, and the strangers. There were five of them. Now, they abandoned all pretense. The Drake reached for his side. A bag of holding. He drew a wand, the tip already aflame, the wand made of obsidian. In his other hand he equipped a buckler.

“Oh, Ancestors—”

“Do you have any magical items? Anything?”

“I have a belt-knife!”

Another curse. Now Pisces and Selys stared around. And Selys realized something else.

They were all [Mages].

Here they came. A pale-faced Selphid, lifting two wands with both hands. A Minotaur, cracking her neck and knuckles. The Centaur, still smoking whatever was in his mouth. The speaker, a Drake, sneering as he pointed a translucent crystal wand and held up a glimmering buckler. And a hooded—Selys blinked. Where had that one gone?

“Pisces—”

It wasn’t a mugging. They were all focused on Pisces, not her. Selys’ tail was trying to curl into knots. She saw the Drake approaching with the Minotauress on his left; from the other side, the Centaur and Selphid were doing likewise. They had a confident walk; they knew what they were doing. Her voice squeaked as she tried to shout.

“Hey! This is Liscor! You can’t just—stop right there or I’ll call the Watch! Who are you? What do you want?”

“He knows. Let the Drake go, Pisces Jealnet. Step aside, Miss Drake. You don’t know who you’re standing next to.”

The Minotauress pointed. Selys found a spark of outrage. This wasn’t happening! This couldn’t be happening! Not in Liscor! Not here! Where was everyone? The Watch? Defiantly, she stepped forwards. Pisces hissed at her.

“Selys—”

“Who are you people? Answer me! Stop right there! Hey! Hey, I need the Watch—”

Selys began to shout, cupping her claws to her mouth, trying to raise someone’s attention. Anyone! She turned and saw the Centaur flick his joint. He pointed it at her and spoke.

“[Mind Blank].”

She recoiled, saw Pisces curse, reach for her. And Selys…



—-



Stopped. The female Drake stopped in the street, mid-recoil as Pisces grabbed her arm.

“Selys!”

But it was too late. The Drake looked around vacantly. The light, the spark in her eyes, it had all faded. She stood there, swaying, and then looked at Pisces. After a moment she frowned vaguely.

“Me?”

He stared at her, and then whirled as the Centaur spoke again.

“[Mind—]”

Pisces threw up his mental shields, drawing on his magic and circulating it through his body as he bit his lip hard enough to draw blood. He tasted iron and felt a push at his mind. But [Mages] were better able to resist mind spells and Pisces had practice. He turned, hand grasping again for the rapier he did not have. Selys was behind him; she hadn’t reacted; she was just staring ahead blankly.

“Let her go. The Drake’s not part of this.”

The Minotauress called out again. They were surrounding him, two on each side. Pisces looked up. He stared at Selys’ face and then turned. His voice snapped in the silence.

“Who are you? What do you want with me?”

“You know who we are.”

The Drake was watching him. Pisces glanced behind him. Selphid and Centaur. They hadn’t said a word, but the magic hung heavy in the air. The Drake made an impatient gesture.

“Hands behind your head. Kneel down and put your face on the ground. No magic.”

Pisces licked his lips. He took a step back, half-pivoting.

“I am a Silver-rank adventurer—”

“Don’t play games. We know who you are. Wistram wants you.”

The Drake aimed his wand, raising his buckler. The tip of his wand sparked. The Minotauress just shook her head.

“And here I thought he’d be harder to find. More like a rat. No moves, [Necromancer]. We know all your spells.”

“I can assure you—”

The Drake’s eyes narrowed. His wand sparked and a ray of fire shot forwards. Pisces jerked—but the fiery beam went past his left shoulder and struck the cobblestones. The ground turned red and stone cracked.

“Enough talk! The next one goes through your leg. Surrender or we’ll do this the easy way.”

“I have done nothing—”

Pisces flinched from the second ray as it shot past his right leg. The Minotauress glanced at her companion and he nodded. They advanced.

“Last chance.”

The Drake warned. He was tracking Pisces as the young man moved back. They were closing in. Pisces tensed. Selys was walking to his left. She absently stared around, and then wandered down the street.

“Do I have work? I thought I was…”

Closer and closer. The Selphid and Centaur moved forwards a step, but the Drake and Minotauress were still advancing. Pisces froze. And all of the [Mages] on the street paused. They were eight feet apart. Then six—

And then Pisces turned and leapt for a side alley. The Drake cursed and his wand shot webs. But a bit off-target. Pisces dashed forwards—and the Minotauress caught him. She was quick! She raised one huge hand, swinging. Pisces turned—

“Don’t hurt me!”

He threw up both hands, shrinking down. The Minotauress stopped the blow and the Drake raised his wand, aborting a second spell. He blinked down as Pisces cowered, trembling before the second blow.

“I surrender! No violence! Please! I can assure you, I’ve done nothing wrong—”

“Shut up! Drop your wand.”

“He doesn’t have any, Isceil.”

The Minotauress stared at Pisces. She was still holding him, but now she let go. Pisces fell to his knees. He raised both hands, putting them behind his head. There were tears in his eyes.

“I—I’ve done nothing wrong against Wistram. If there’s some issue, I have gold! Let’s talk this over! Whatever you might have been told, I’m completely reformed. Good magi, a bit of kindness—”

“Shut. Up.”

Pisces’ babbling stopped. His eyes were wide as he trembled. The Drake, Isceil, lowered his wand, looking disgusted. He glanced at the Minotauress. She had the same expression on her face. The Selphid and Centaur [Mage] hesitated, but both trotted closer.

“I can’t believe this. Are you sure this is the right one?”

He turned. The Selphid nodded, glancing about. She stared at Pisces as he turned, a terrified expression on his face.

“Wow. He really gave up instantly. I thought he had some spine, based on all the reports.”

“Consider this. If it’s gold you want—”

“Shut up. Ancestors damn it. Well, we got him. Let’s capture this idiot already.”

The Drake folded his arms. Pisces threw himself forwards.

“Wait—wait!”

“Hands behind your head!”

The Minotauress snapped. She stepped back and reached for her belt. Pisces immediately got up and put his hands back up. He stared as she pulled something from her belt.

“Whatever Wistram Academy might think of me, I’ve reformed! Truly! If you intend to capture me, my record is clean in Liscor, I swear!”

“Hah. Can you believe this?”

The Selphid looked amused. The Drake just spat. He nodded towards his companion.

“Don’t try to weasel out of this, [Necromancer]. Now, put your hands up and get in the box.”

He looked towards the Minotauress. Pisces froze as she withdrew a black cube from her belt. It was perfectly black, without detail save for a single, etched door drawn in pale silver on one side. His eyes went wide and he leaned back as she aimed it at him.

“What is—”

“It’s a Silent Box. We’re not idiots. Get in.”

The Minotauress leaned forwards. Pisces backed up.

“No! I’m innocent! Please, can’t we negotiate?”

He threw himself to the side, avoiding the front of the cube. The Drake cursed, kicking at him as Pisces scrambled towards him, clutching at his legs.

“Get off! Don’t make me hex you, you little—Beza, just capture this piece of waste already!”

He lifted a leg to kick at Pisces. The Minotauress growled, reaching for Pisces with one hand. And then her eyes widened.

“Watch out!”

Pisces sprang upwards. He slashed at the Drake’s throat with one hand, snarling, and the Oldblood Drake made a sound. His head jerked backwards. But for Bezha’s warning, the bone blade would have cut his throat. As it was, Pisces slashed the edge and turned. He vanished, fleeing with long steps that blinked him across the ground.

[Bone Shiv]. [Flash Step]. The [Mages] shouted as Pisces dashed down the street. He got five steps, leapt, and vanished in midair. The Drake turned, cursing.

“That bastard! Where’d he—”

The Centaur took the rollup from his mouth and blew a cloud of smoke. Casually, he exhaled it and the smoke turned bright, pink, glittering particles sweeping forwards in a rush of air.

“He’s still here. [Glitterdust Storm].”

The pink shimmering cloud blew forwards and settled across the street. It caught Selys and she blinked, staring at the bright particles that stuck to her.

“Shiny.”

She muttered. Behind her, the particles stuck to a shape in the air. Pisces reappeared, coughing, as the Centaur pointed at him.

“Got him.”

The [Necromancer] looked around wildly. His [Invisibility] spell had been purged! And—he turned, stumbling, and [Flash Stepped] backwards. But somehow, he couldn’t flee down the street. He found himself stumbling backwards, towards the [Mages].

They were aiming at him now. The Drake raised his wand and roared. He blasted a ray of fire and Pisces ducked out of the way. The Drake’s wand ignited, and the Minotauress grabbed his arm.

“You idiot, that Drake’s still in the way!”

“I’ve got her.”

The Selphid dashed forwards and tugged at Selys. Pisces froze. Something was wrong. He turned around. The street swam behind him. He whirled as another ray of magic shot at him and dodged left. The Drake was clutching at his throat. The Minotauress clenched a fist, pulling out a scroll.

“Isceil, do you need a potion? I’ve got him—”

“I’m fine. Don’t you dare, Beza! The rest of you, back off!”

Isceil hissed. His companions looked at him as he advanced, his wand aimed at Pisces’ heart. The Drake’s tail lashed furiously. His throat was still bleeding, but no more than superficially. He narrowed his eyes at Pisces.

“Not bad. If I were twice as slow, you’d have got me. Everyone, stay back. I’ll take him. Alone.”

“Really?”

“Shut up, Beza. You. [Necromancer]. You’re not getting away.”

The Drake aimed his wand at Pisces. The young man paused. His head felt thick. But he still sneered. He raised his hand and a rapier of bone appeared, the bones flowing from his bag of holding.

“Is this a challenge? For a group of Wistram’s cowards, I didn’t expect any honor among them.”

The comment made the female Minotaur’s eyes begin to turn red. She opened her mouth, but the Drake laughed.

“That’s better! I was hoping you’d fight back. Beza, he’s mine.”

He sneered as Pisces flicked his bone rapier. The [Necromancer] walked to one side, rapier raised in a [Fencer]’s position. Isceil had no weapon save for his wand, but he didn’t look concerned. He flicked his wand as he kept his buckler high.

“I heard you were a good duelist back in your day. I’m one of Fissival’s best. If I’d have transferred to Wistram, people wouldn’t remember you at all.”

Pisces’ eyes narrowed.

“So you are from Wistram?”

The Drake looked at him.

“Of course we are. We’re—”

He swore and raised his shield, twisting. Pisces’ lunge carried him across the street. He missed, his rapier deflecting off the Drake’s buckler. Isceil pointed.

“[Flame Scythe]!”

He swung the wand fast, an arc of blue flame cutting. Pisces was already gone. He reappeared, panting. The heat of the flames cutting through the air was intense. The Drake spat curses.

“You cowardly—”

He jerked as Pisces dove left. The [Necromancer] blasted fire at his face, spun, [Flash Stepped] around the Drake, and fired a [Stone Dart] at his side. The Drake twisted. The flames he dispelled, but the stone dart shot at him from his wand-side. He twisted—

And the stone dart exploded in midair. Pisces paused. The Drake lifted his wand. The returning spell exploded outwards, a shower of purple missiles that homed in on Pisces. The [Necromancer] leapt backwards, but the missiles pursued him. He vanished, threw up a [Barrier of Air]—the explosion sent him stumbling back a step.

Pisces pointed a finger and lightning, volts of electricity crackled forwards. Again, they vanished before touching the Drake. This time Isceil just sneered. Pisces saw an amulet on his chest flashing. It was absorbing the Tier 2 spells!

“That’s it? You could take on fourth-year students, but not—”

He slashed with his wand. A sword of light cut at the air, but Pisces’ reach was longer. The [Necromancer] leapt forwards, slashing with his rapier, stabbing, vanishing backwards. This time he raised his hand and a bloom of light flashed in the Drake’s eyes. Isceil cursed, spoke a word. Pisces saw the barrier appear and [Flash Stepped] left. He lunged in, saw the Drake pointing his wand behind him, right at Pisces.

“[Flame Spray].”

This time the fire caught Pisces. He shouted in pain, leaping backwards, his robes and hair burning. Pisces shot frozen air, blasting his skin, ignoring the blisters forming. The Drake crowed, but cursed as he felt at one arm. Pisces had cut him above the arm in the clash on his buckler arm.

Isceil’s companions watched the magical duel calmly. The Minotauress was shouting clenching her hands, watching Pisces warily—the Selphid and Centaur were more casual. The smoking Centaur called out as he watched the Drake raise his buckler.

“Having trouble, Isceil? He’s not bad!”

“Shut your damn mouth, Palt!”

The Drake roared back. He shot a flurry of spells at Pisces, curving them and aiming where Pisces would be. The [Necromancer] disappeared backwards, throwing his own spells, but defensively. The Selphid watched with interest. The Drake’s body the Selphid was wearing held two wands and she was flicking them as she analyzed the duel.

“This Human really is as good as Beatrice said. I never saw him duel, but he’s quick! [Fencer]?”

“Maybe. But Isceil will win.”

The Centaur nodded knowingly. He watched as Pisces retreated backwards. The [Mage] had conjured his [Barrier of Air] again. But the Drake shattered it with a single spell. Pisces fell back, panting. He stared at the Drake, poised, ready to dodge. Isceil aimed at him, eyes narrowed, and the two froze for a second.

Pisces’ mind was whirling as he stared at his opponent. He was good. And the buckler had some kind of spell that was drawing Pisces’ attention and attacks. Every time Pisces lunged—the [Necromancer] glanced at the other three [Mages]. Isceil’s eyes narrowed. His wand shot a scythe of flames horizontally.

“Your opponent’s here!”

“Damn it, Isceil! We’re right here!”

The Selphid leapt forwards and cut the flames in two as they shot. Pisces had already ducked under the fire, but Isceil had been aiming for that. Grinning, the Drake aimed at the crouched [Necromancer]. He saw Pisces flick one hand and a ring flashed. A bolt of magic shot towards Isceil’s face. The overconfident Drake blinked.

“Isceil! Dodge!”

The voice that rang out came from the side. Isceil’s eyes widened. He raised his bucker, caught the edge of the [Shatterbolt] on the rim of his shield. His buckler trembled as the magical spell hit it. It glowed, cracked, and exploded. The Drake howled.

“My shield!”

“Isceil!”

His friends cried out in shock. The Drake raised his wand, whipping around wildly for Pisces, but the [Necromancer] was gone. He was—Beza pointed.

“Damn, he’s running! Get him!”

Pisces was dashing at them. The Selphid, Centaur, and Minotaur all reacted. The Selphid leapt backwards, out of the way of a slash. Beza swung barehanded, but Pisces leapt past her. He [Flash Stepped] forwards zipping forwards with each step—

And found himself facing the other way. Pisces stumbled. He was running towards the [Mages] again! He saw the Selphid raising her wands, unguarded, and leapt forwards.

“Oh rot—”

A hail of missiles hit Pisces from the side. It was like being hit by heavy, sharp punches. Pisces staggered. The Centaur!

“I’ve got you covered. [Light Arrow].”

He was pointing at Pisces with both hands. Bolts of light appeared at his fingertips and flew at Pisces. They shot from his fingers as fast as rain. Pisces dodged backwards, but again, he found himself stumbling as he tried to get down the street. At last, his frantic mind connected the dots.

He was under an illusion spell. The [Necromancer] twisted, snarling. The Centaur’s lit joint puffed. And the cloud turned orange as he blew a smoke ring.

“He’s trying to break my illusion. Anyone want to stop him? Anyone?”

“I’ve got this.”

“He’s my prey!”

Isceil was running forwards. But the Minotauress had had enough. She strode forwards. Pisces narrowed his eyes. The Centaur trotted backwards, watching Pisces carefully. The [Necromancer] dodged left and Beza cursed.

“Damn. [Haste]—”

She blurred. Now it was her versus Pisces and the Minotaur was fast. Pisces backed up as the female Minotaur came at him. She stepped in—not a blind rush, but a boxer’s stance. She swung, fast and compact, but each swing missed him. He slashed out; she blocked with one arm. His swing didn’t even break her flesh!

“[Steel Body]. Ulinde?”

“Yeah, I’m here.”

The Selphid appeared behind Pisces. Now it was two-on-one. No, three. The [Necromancer] turned. He grabbed his bag of holding and threw it.

“Rise!”

Bones spilled from the bag, assembling upwards. A hand reached for the Selphid. She turned, raised her wands.

“No you don’t! [Ray of Force]. [Aerial Burst].”

The Bone Horror exploded as the spells sent the bones flying. They rained down around the street. Pisces stared at the Selphid. They smiled in the Drake’s body and leapt.

“[Flame Scythe]. [Stone Spray]!”

Fire and stone. Pisces dodged backwards. But he was too slow. This time the fragments of stone struck his leg, drawing blood. He stumbled, his skin blistering. The Minotaur raised a hand.

“Ulinde, we want him alive.”

“It’s only Tier 2 spells, Beza—”

“Ulinde, Beza! Back off!”

The Drake bellowed as he aimed at Pisces. The Minotauress turned on him angrily.

“Isceil, finish it if you’re so bothered. But if you can’t catch him—”

“He won’t dodge this.”

Pisces saw the Drake lower his wand. The [Necromancer] leaned on his good leg, ready to dash. He inhaled raggedly. What was coming? If he couldn’t flee, he had to send a message to Ceria, take out the Centaur and—

Isceil inhaled. Pisces whirled. Oldblood Drake. He dodged left, prepared for an attack. But what issued from the Drake’s mouth was a stream of frost. An ice-type? But then Pisces saw the ice was a cloud. An expanding black cloud—

Darkness and ice? The [Necromancer] paused for a crucial second as the cloud curved around him. Too late, he realized it wasn’t aimed at him, but cutting off his back—he tried to dodge left, but the swath of magical bolts caught him. Three stuck him and he stumbled backwards. Freezing ice and sapping darkness from the cloud struck his back.

“Got him.”

Burning pain. Pisces’ body spasmed. He cried out; the bolts had torn his flesh. He looked up as the Drake leveled his wand. His body was slowing. Freezing. The four [Mages] watched him.

“Surrender.”

The Minotauress called out. Pisces coughed. He said nothing. Isceil’s eyes narrowed.

“[Hail of—]”

Pisces raised his hand and flicked it at the [Mages]. All four recoiled, but the [Shatterbolt] spell didn’t come. The ring on Pisces’ finger was still recharging. But that opening was all he needed.

Pisces leapt forwards, his rapier extended, aiming straight for the Drake’s open mouth. A [Fencer]’s lunge. He stepped through the cloud, but the magical breath couldn’t touch him for more than a moment. And his bone rapier was aimed straight for the Drake’s open mouth.

It was less than a split second, a [Flash Step]. In that way memory has of catching up to action, Pisces saw the Drake’s eyes widen, him try to move. But it was too late. The rapier’s tip aimed at his mouth—

And Pisces slammed into something. So hard that he felt his arm crack and his rapier skid twisting out of his hands. He recoiled, and then fell backwards, stunned by the impact. He’d hit—

Isceil was cursing. He raised his wand, but his spell struck the magical barrier protecting him and dissipated harmlessly. He whirled.

And the fifth [Mage] stepped forwards, shedding her own [Invisibility] spell. Her voice was low as she moved forwards, the staff in her hands glowing.

“Step back, Isceil. Now.”

“I had that! I—”

The hooded head turned towards him. The Drake swallowed his fury, lowered his wand. Pisces scrambled for his rapier. He tried to get up, but he was winded. He looked up, biding his time. The fifth mage wore a dark hood. But now, she pulled it back and looked down at him.

She had bright red hair, fizzy, fair, Terandrian features. She was young, a bit younger than he was, but only by year or so. Her eyes were pale, saffron and topaz. She stared down at Pisces and spoke. Her voice was lower than he remembered. But so familiar.

“Hello, Pisces. Remember me?”

The [Necromancer] froze. He stared up at her. His eyes widened and his mind went blank for a second. He looked at the young woman as her companions, her team spread out behind her.

Drake. Selphid. Centaur. Minotauress. They all bore the marks of Wistram, but Pisces knew none of them. But her? He knew her. The young [Mage] leaned on her stave.

Her staff was something like marble, a hexagonal base ending with a hoop-like design at the head. Inside the ring hovered a red gemstone. But what drew the eye was the strange, polished orb hovering around the staff. It looked like a ball of…copper? Yet, Pisces had only eyes for her face. He spoke sharply. A pained name. Memory.

“Montres—”

“[Lightning Bolt].”

The magic flashed from the orb, not the staff. The thunder rolled and broke. The other [Mages] winced, but when the flash and sound cleared, Pisces was trying to get up. He’d shielded himself even from that, but—

Pisces rose. This time a fist swung at his face. He jerked, but it spun him on his back. The Minotauress watched as his head cracked the paving stones. She stood over him. The Drake advanced, aiming a wand down at Pisces. Montressa du Valeross watched.

“Give up. Now.”

“Montr—”

The Drake’s foot flashed out and stomped on Pisces’ hand as he reached for his rapier. The [Necromancer] shouted in pain. Now there were three. Selphid, Drake, Minotauress. Beza leaned down. Her horns were capped with an ornamental tip of silver and gemstone. She spoke once.

“Give up.”

Pisces stared up at them. The [Mages] waited. He looked past them at Montressa. Right at her. He inhaled once, clutching at his chest. And spoke.

“No.”

He rose. This time there was no duel. He slashed, a knife of bone appearing in his hands. The Minotauress struck him in the stomach and he folded, gagging. The Selphid knocked his legs out from behind and the Drake [Mage] stepped forwards and kicked him in the face. Pisces stabbed at his leg, drawing blood. Isceil hissed.

“That’s it.”

He kicked Pisces again. The [Necromancer] slashed at him until Beza ripped the blade from his hands. But he refused to surrender. He snarled, then, biting, clawing, magic swirling and breaking unformed as they interrupted his spellcasting.

Selys Shivertail stood in the street where the Selphid had dragged her. She watched, vaguely, as the three magic users surrounded the young man on the ground. Some part of her was troubled. But the rest of her couldn’t find the words to explain why it hurt. The [Mages] didn’t bother with spells anymore. They just hit Pisces, again and again. The sounds bothered Selys, heavy thumps. Blows. Curses. But her vacant eyes never looked away.

They didn’t stop as long as he was moving. And he refused to stop. The Centaur looked away, inhaling deeply and blowing out smoke. When it was finally over, they stepped back. The Drake’s eyes were alight with fury. The Minotaurs’ disdainful. The Selphid looked disgusted.

And Montressa? She stepped over to the young man, as the Drake wiped off a spatter of blood and spat. And she stared down at him with hatred as she drew the Silent Box. Pisces never moved as Montressa bent.

Hatred and fear.



—-



Yvlon Byres had never been to Wishdrinks, but she’d heard all about the reputation of the bar. And it was well-deserved. For, when she visited it at last, she found it was not only the most popular bar in Liscor, but it had a waiting list.

So the adventurers went to a normal tavern instead. The alcohol was cheap, and they were sitting around, drinking and talking. Humans, mostly. Ksmvr was there, and Ceria, but it was mostly the old adventurers. Stan. Alais. Walt. Kammy, who was ‘Kam’ to everyone. And more. Silver-rank adventurers Yvlon had met once or twice before, or whom she’d heard of.

They were talking, laughing, telling stories, and toasting each other. It was somber and funny. Mostly funny, actually—Yvlon was laughing. She couldn’t help it.

“So then—then I saw Gerial and Ceria trying to drag Calruz up the stairs. They were all too drunk, and so the Minotaur kept on falling backwards and those two idiots weren’t about to pull him up themselves. So they just left him on the stairwell. But here’s the best part: they forgot to clean him up, so he still had all the crap on him. And the tavern’s dog—it must have gotten through the door with some of its buddies, because it began eating all the scraps on him. And then it began puking and crapping on Calruz, so when we got down the next day, we found him covered in—”

A roar of laughter followed Walt’s story. Yvlon snorted, more disgusted than amused, and she saw Ceria bury her head in her hands, blushing. But also laughing.

“Dead gods. This is why we don’t work with your team, Walt! And you’re one to talk. I remember one time we had to find you after you went drinking and we found you in a pigsty, spooning with a pig!”

Kam coughed on her drink and Walt laughed. He was already deeply into his cups, and it wasn’t even near dinner yet. But then—Yvlon’s head was also clouded. They’d been drinking. Talking about the past.

“Those were the good old days. Remember when we were all just out of Bronze-rank? Your team jumped out of it fast, Ceria. That damn bull was too strong and you had those ice shards—”

“Ice spikes. I still have them. Yeah. If only I’d had my [Ice Walls]. That’d have been really useful. In the crypt.”

The other adventurers sobered a bit. Ceria had related the tale, the real tale of what had gone down in the crypt with Yvlon’s help. It hadn’t been easy, hence the drinks. But they weren’t the only ones.

“Undead. They get you. My team and the Ghouls—it was a bad hand. Cervial would’ve never opened that door. That thing—Skinner? It must have come out. It was a trap. I—well, we heard differently.”

Stan leaned on the counter. He hadn’t drunk as much as the others, being the oldest save for Ceria. He looked around and the others nodded. Kam made a disgusted noise.

“I never believed it. I knew Ceria and Calruz and everyone else. You shouldn’t have listened to those other adventurers, Stan. They’re not team captains. You know what Terrica did after I booted her from the team for getting us into that ambush? She complained. Filed a report at the Adventurer’s Guild saying that I cut her out of her fair share. Unjustly.”

“Bitch.”

Walt missed his mug. Some of the other team leaders nodded.

“She really walked your team into a full ambush?”

“She was either drunk, or she’d been taking some of those powders. Or…I don’t know. I thought I could trust her.”

“I lost two friends on a [Bandit] mission three years back. Just bad luck. I was taking point. That was an honest mistake, but that’s why I resigned as captain. There’s some truth to the folks who’re angry at the Horns. And your team, Kam. But let’s be clear: it was a mistake. Both situations could’ve been avoided, sure. But no one wanted either incident. We’ll correct anyone we hear spreading false rumors.”

Pelico, a [Rogue] adventurer nodded seriously. The other adventurers nodded too. Yvlon had to raise her mug, nodding gratefully.

“I’ll drink to that. And again—that fight in the Adventurer’s Guild? That was my fault.”

“We provoked it. Tempers were hot. It was Albez, really. Pure jealously over that. As well as not hearing anything after Liscor and getting your side of the story.”

Alais muttered into her cup. Stan nodded gravely, and he raised his cup.

“To mistakes. We’ve all made a few.”

The adventurers drank. Yvlon saw Ksmvr drinking quietly; the Antinium had been listening rather than sharing his own stories, of which he had few. Now he rose.

“Excuse me. I must excrete.”

Walt choked on his drink. Yvlon heard laughter from the others.

“Ksmvr! Don’t tell us that!”

The Antinium tilted his head.

“But I will be away for a longer period than normal. The typical toilet is ill-configured to dispose of my waste. I must find a proper receptacle.”

He wandered off. Yvlon heard Walt choking and laughing, but then the other adveturers leaned in. Kam looked at Yvlon and Ceria.

“Alright, since we can ask now—tell me honestly, you two. Is he really okay to have on your team? I couldn’t believe you had an Antinium on your team. I thought they were these mindless killing machines.”

The others nodded. Yvlon looked at Ceria, and spoke up first.

“Ksmvr’s odd. But he’s one of the most loyal teammates I’ve ever had. The Antinium are strange, but some of them are just like us. Just a bit different.”

“Different how?”

“Well, he doesn’t understand a lot of things. He lived in the Hive all his life. He’s actually three years old.”

“Dead gods. Seriously?”

“Yes, but listen, Kam, everyone. He’s the kind of teammate you want. Ksmvr’s the most trustworthy friend I know. If anything, we have to take care of him because he’ll put his life on the line before ours. He thinks he’s expendable compared to us; he’d lay his life down in a heartbeat.”

Pelico bit his lip.

“Damn. That’s some loyalty. I’ve had companions like that. They don’t last long.”

“Don’t worry about him. That fellow’s a demon in combat. Did we tell you about the [Bandit] story? He took out an entire group of them. By himself!”

“What? I didn’t hear about this!”

Everyone looked at Stan. He was nodding, looking at Yvlon and Ceria for confirmation.

“I didn’t see it all, but—well, it was after the fight. Yvlon and Ceria here had just been hauled off to the jail—”

“Because they’d brawled with us. That other one too. Pisces?”

Alais muttered, flushing. Yvlon nodded. Kam glanced up sharply.

“The [Necromancer]. Tell us about him. You’re actually working with one? After Liscor?”

“He saved Ceria’s life. Went into the crypt, Kam.”

“Talk about him later! What’s this about the [Bandits]?”

Walt interrupted impatiently. Stan was nodding, and Yvlon was leaning over to whisper with Kam when the [Mages] walked into the tavern. Five of them. At first, no one noticed, but Ceria glanced up muzzily, sensing the magical energy. So did another team captain.

Ulinde, the Selphid, glanced around, and then spotted Ceria at the bar. She pointed the half-Elf out.

“That her, Montressa?”

“Yes.”

The Centaur named Palt was lighting a new roll. He sucked on it and blew out more smoke.

“She’s got companions. Want to wait?”

“Adventurers. They look like Silver-ranks. We can handle them. Let’s not waste time.”

Beza snorted. She still looked at Montressa first. The [Mage] nodded and they all walked forwards.

“Ceria Springwalker.”

Isceil interrupted Stan’s story at the bar. The adventurers turned, most blinking as they saw the five [Mages]. Ceria looked up. She focused on the Drake’s face first.

“Huh? That’s me. Do I know you?”

“No. But you know her.”

The Drake jerked his head over to the young woman. Ceria turned. Yvlon saw her pause uncertainly. And then Ceria dropped her mug.

“Mons? Montressa?”

She jerked out of her seat, standing up unsteadily. Montressa gave Ceria a flat, long stare.

“That’s me. Hello, Ceria. Is your team here?”

“I—Montressa? How did you get here? Tree rot! Is that you?”

Ceria stared unsteadily at Montressa and then went to pinch herself. Yvlon stared. She’d heard Ceria’s tale of her days in Wistram and she vaguely recalled the name. Alais blinked around. She could sense the [Mages] too. She sat up a bit and her tone was respectful.

“Who’s this Ceria? An old friend?”

“I—yes?”

The half-Elf blinked uncertainly at Mons. Worriedly, Yvlon thought. But she smiled and gestured around to Yvlon.

“Everyone, this is Montressa. Montressa, it’s good to see you. Yvlon—meet Montressa. You remember me telling you about her? This is Yvlon, one of my teammates. I—”

She paused. Montressa was just staring at Ceria. Looking the half-Elf up and down. And—Yvlon was rapidly sobering—there was absolutely no warmth in her eyes. Much the opposite. The other [Mages] looked equally…

Slowly, the adventurers put down their cups and all turned. They could all feel it in the air. Ceria’s smile faltered.

“Mons? I have a team. The Horns of Hammerad. And…you know who’s on my team?”

“An old friend. I know. Pisces. I just met him. But I never thought you’d be working with him. Looks like you really haven’t changed.”

Montressa spoke quietly. She stared at Ceria. Yvlon felt her skin crawling. Beside her, Kam gave Yvlon a slow nudge.

“What? You met Pisces?”

“I did. My team and I are all [Mages] from Wistram. We’re here on a mission. We just apprehended Pisces for his crimes. He’ll stand trial in Wistram.”

The room froze over. Ceria stared at Montressa, blinking, not quite comprehending. Her smile vanished. She looked at Montressa, then the other four [Mages].

“What? But—hold on, we were kicked out. The Council exiled us. You can’t—wait, where’s Pisces?”

“What did you do with him?”

Yvlon slowly got up. She was still wearing her armor. She stared at the Minotauress. She was big. Taller than Calruz, even. Although Calruz had been burlier. This Minotaur was wearing robes. A Minotaur [Mage]? She still looked stronger than Walt.

“We put him in a Silent Box. He resisted. You’re on his team, Ceria. Wistram’s decided you owe the academy an explanation for why you’re consorting with him. So you’re coming as well. You won’t be a prisoner if you come quietly. Surrender if you know what’s good for you.”

The half-Elf just stared at Montressa. She looked disbelieving for a moment. But the Drake was shifting his weight. The seated adventurers were surreptitiously shifting their weight. Stan called out, his voice friendly, but wary. The [Bartender] had already ducked backwards, away from the bar.

“Hold on here. I don’t know what this is about, but let’s all be reasonable here. You’re all [Mages]? Why don’t we sit down, discuss this—”

“Shut up, Human. All of you adventurers, stay out of this. This is Wistram’s business. Wistram Academy. If we need to, we’ll deal with all of you as well.”

The Drake snapped at him. That was the wrong thing to say. Walt got up.

“Listen, you pissant Drake. I’ve had it up to here with—”

He froze as Isceil drew his wand. Ulinde’s appeared in her hands as well, aiming at the bar of adventurers. Everyone froze.

“Hold on! You can’t start a fight in the middle of the city! The Watch will—”

Kam croaked nervously. Montressa ignored her. She was still staring at Ceria, but now her gaze flicked to Yvlon.

“Is this your teammate? Does she know what you and Pisces did?”

“Mons?”

“Don’t call me that. Does she know what Pisces is? What he’s done? How could you work with him?”

Yvlon stepped forwards. The attention of all the [Mages] shifted on her. She settled herself. Her nerves were fizzing. She checked one arm unconsciously as she looked at Montressa.

“I know who Pisces is. He’s a friend. Where is he? Did you hurt him?”

“This doesn’t concern you. Your Captain and the [Necromancer] are criminals. Walk away.”

The Minotauress informed Yvlon, glaring. Yvlon looked at her.

“Where is Pisces. Answer me.”

“Right here.”

Montressa shifted her robes and let go of her staff. It stayed upright as she pointed to a little black cube. Yvlon stared at it as Ceria inhaled.

“You didn’t—”

“Let him go. Now.”

Yvlon reached for her sword. Alais said something, but Yvlon’s eyes were locked on Montressa. The Selphid raised her wand warningly.

“Don’t. You’re all out leveled. Let Ceria Springwalker go and she’ll come back with us.”

“This isn’t happening. Montressa, let me explain. Did you talk to Pisces? What happened?”

Ceria was laughing, her eyes wide with disbelief. She looked at Montressa, but the young Human woman never blinked. She stared back at Ceria, and Yvlon’s hand found the hilt of her sword.

“What did you do?”

“We don’t want a fight. Let’s talk this over. Yvlon, this isn’t the Adventurer’s Guild. Ceria.”

Stan’s voice was uncertain. Yvlon hesitated. But Ceria just stared at Montressa. She gulped.

“I know that, Stan. But—Mons? Why is my [Dangersense] going off? What did you do with Pisces?”

The young woman paused. Then she turned her head and nodded at the Drake and Minotaur on her left.

“Last chance.”

Yvlon drew her sword. Behind his companions, the Centaur grabbed at something.

“[Intangible Snatch].”

Yvlon felt her sword hilt vanish. She gaped and saw him holding the blade, half unsheathed. The Drake pointed his wand.

“[Stone Fist]!”

Yvlon dove as a block of stone blasted past her and smashed into the bar. The room exploded into violence. The adventurers surged up from their chairs. Half of them already had weapons in their hands, but the Selphid was faster. Ulinde leapt forwards, pointing both her wands at the adventurers.

“[Sticky Webs]!”

Spider webbing, nets of it, shot out and hit most of the adventures where they sat. They cried out, struggling, but the Centaur was pointing calmly from face to face.

“[Black Shroud]. [Sleep]. [Sticky Webs]—”

He and the Selphid struck the adventures in their seats, immobilizing some of them. Walt slumped, his eyes fluttering. Ceria was on her feet.

“Montressa!”

She raised her wand, pointing with her skeletal hand. Frost shimmering around both, but Isceil pointed his wand at her.

“You’re outmatched, half-Elf. Don’t even try it.”

Ceria hesitated. Yvlon surged to her feet, looking for a weapon. Anything! She turned—and Beza charged her. The Minotauress knocked Yvlon off her feet. The [Wounded Warrior] tumbled backwards, crashing onto the ground. Beza raised a fist.

“Give up.”

“No fighting! No fighting! Someone call the W—”

The [Bartender] was halfway towards the door, but there was a shimmering barrier there. The Centaur pointed and the Drake collapsed, eyes rolling up in his head. Ceria looked at Yvlon. From the ground, Yvlon looked up. Montressa looked at Ceria.

“Well?”

Ceria shouted.

“[Ice—]”

A barrier of ice exploded from the ground as she shot a spray of snow into the Drake’s face. He cursed and pointed at the expanding barrier of frozen water.

The wall of ice exploded. Ceria gaped and saw him pointing his wand. She dodged, but too late. The bolt of magic hit her in the chest and slammed her against the bar. She flailed there, breathless. The Drake hit her with a second spell before she could move. Ceria felt the world disappear for a moment. Her ears were ringing. She stared upwards, mouthing wordlessly. She couldn’t breathe.

Montressa stood over her. Yvlon was on her feet, but she’d been caught. Beza had her arm. The Minotauress was twisting it up ruthlessly. Ceria was downed—Isceil was stabbing his wand into her chest and it was draining her of energy. Yvlon cursed as she fought to get free, but Beza had leverage on her. She growled as the other [Mages] looked at Ceria.

“Walk away, Miss Human. Both of your teammates are under arrest. You’re free to go; don’t make us incapacitate you.”

“Let go of Ceria!”

Yvlon wrenched, but her right arm was caught. Beza sighed as she adjusted her grip and looked at Montressa.

“I’ve got this. You can’t get free, Human.”

Yvlon twisted. She was bent over, held at an awkward angle, but she could still hit at Beza. She swung a fist into the Minotaur’s stomach, but it was weak. Beza didn’t even move. She looked embarrassed as she twisted Yvlon’s arm up further.

“Just give up. Even Minotaur [Mages] can outfight your average [Warrior]. And I’m specialized in hand-to-hand combat.”

“Yvlon.”

Ceria croaked weakly. Yvlon saw her friend’s hand jerking as she weakly grasped at the wand. The obsidian was sparking where it touched her chest. Montressa was lifting the black cube, advancing on her. Yvlon Byres saw crimson. She howled in fury and wrenched.

Her arm moved. Yvlon turned and slammed her head into Beza’s chin. The Minotaur stumbled back she looked stunned. Yvlon spun. She kicked, catching the Minotaur in the stomach. It felt like she was hitting a rock! She caught herself, lashed out. Her right arm didn’t move, but her left struck Beza across the face. Her armored fist drew blood this time. Yvlon punched. Her right arm wasn’t moving!

“Beza!”

Her friends were raising their wands. Yvlon turned, one of her arms raised. Beza stumbled backwards, but caught herself. She held up a hand. Then she stared at Yvlon. The [Wounded Warrior] turned to her. The Minotauress stared.

“You—you just dislocated your arm.”

Yvlon blinked. She stared down at her left arm. She saw her arm was twisted, the elbow bent in into it poked at her side. She stared at it. She hadn’t felt a thing. Then she looked up.

“So?”

The Human woman charged the Minotaur. Beza blocked the first punch; Yvlon kneed her in the chest and heard the Minotaur grunt. She swung, catching Beza across the ribs. The Minotaur punched back and hit Yvlon across the face. Yvlon reeled back and hit Beza with all her weight on the left side. The Minotaur reeled back.

“Use [Steel Body]! Don’t just duke it out, you idiot!”

Isceil was shouting at Beza, but she refused to retreat. Yvlon swung again—this time the Minotaur blocked and lashed out. She hit Yvlon on the chest this time; the armor took the impact and Yvlon slid back.

She tried to move her other arm and felt her muscles tearing. But she didn’t feel it. She charged and rammed into the Minotaur. She reached down and yanked at the leg she found. Beza stumbled, cursing, and Yvlon lifted.

The Minotaur went down and Yvlon leapt on her. Beza tried to utter a spell as she raised her hands. Too late. Yvlon was on top of her. One handed, she pounded at the Minotaur’s face. Beza roared.

“Get—”

“[Binding Cords]!”

Behind Yvlon, Montressa pointed her staff. Yvlon jerked as the spell hit her. Ropes appeared and swirled around the [Warrior] as she tried to fight. But then she was struggling, cursing on the ground. Beza rose, eyes red with fury and rounded on Montressa.

“That was my fight!”

“Oh yeah? You did about as well as Isceil. You should have enchanted yourself, Beza. We don’t have time for this.”

The Selphid shook her head. Beza was furious, but she calmed as Montressa glared at her. She turned back to Yvlon.

“I’m sorry about that.”

“You coward. You—”

“[Soporifics Dust].”

The Centaur trotted over and waved a hand over Yvlon. She cursed, but her movements grew slower. She resisted the spell for nearly a minute, swearing at Beza, but the Centaur just kept the spores of yellow-green powder drifting down on her and eventually Yvlon slowed.

The [Mages] stood in silence. Ceria was limp, unconscious, as Isceil stepped back. He looked at the adventurers, most of whom were out and then at Beza. She was wiping blood from one nostril.

“Alright, we got the half-Elf. Are we taking the other one too?”

“We have to. But where’s the fourth? Did anyone see the Antinium?”

The [Mages] all shook their heads. Montressa glanced around warily. Ulinde was frowning.

“Well, we don’t have to get anyone besides Pisces and Ceria, right? Maybe we—”

Thunk. Ulinde stopped talking and rocked backwards. A crossbow bolt had appeared in the side of her head, just above her ear. She stumbled backwards. Beza’s eyes went wide. She spun—a crossbow bolt struck her in the chest. She stared at it.

“Dead gods!”

Isceil raised his wand. The third crossbow bolt shattered, cracking the magical barrier that appeared around him. The fourth broke it, but the bolt snapped and only the fragments hit him. He raised his wand and Ksmvr fired the fifth crossbow. It snapped through the Drake’s arm, sending the wand flying. He aimed the sixth one.

He had Crossbow Stan’s bag of holding. Ksmvr stood behind the bar where he’d been hidden and pointed it at Montressa. Straight at her stomach. She was still stunned. He pulled the trigger and the crossbow fired. The bolt sped at Montressa and lodged in the air.

Ksmvr paused. That was a good barrier spell. Montressa jerked, looked at him, and pointed her staff.

“[Binding Rop—]”

The Antinium leapt sideways. He moved unnaturally fast, hopping from his hiding place and bouncing off a wall. He leapt again, landing, and now he had his weapons in hand. He darted at Beza first. His Flamecoat Dagger set her alight and she howled.

“Beza! [Dispel Magic]!”

The flames went out as fast as they’d appeared. Ksmvr saw Montressa pointing her staff and dodged around her. He lunged. Shortsword, Forceshield in his other two hands. He collided with the shield and his enchanted shortsword struck—something. But it didn’t break.

“Damn, the Antinium—”

The Drake pointed his wand. Ksmvr raised his Forceshield and the spell burst. He felt the impact, but smoothly dodged backwards. The Minotaur swung at him and he stabbed her in the side. Yvlon was asleep, the adventurers were incapacitated. The Centaur was rearing back, alarmed. Not used to combat for all his abilities. Hamstring. Ksmvr, darted forwards—

Ulinde caught him. The Selphid stared at Ksmvr, the crossbow bolt still buried to the shaft in her head. Ksmvr stared at her. His mandibles opened.

“How?”

“Selphid.”

Oh. He swung his dagger and shortsword. She uttered a word.

“[Shock Veil].”

The electricity coursed through Ksmvr. He still completed the swing, but he just hacked into dead flesh. The Selphid kept her grip and Ksmvr spasmed. He tried to move, to step back, but then he collapsed. Ulinde put a hand on his chest as Ksmvr fell to the ground of the tavern. He curled up as the electricity kept running through him. The adventurers saw him trying to move. Shaking. Stopping.

“Ulinde! That’s an Antinium! If we kill one—”

“I know! I know.”

The electricity stopped. Ulinde stepped back. She felt at the crossbow bolt and grimaced, then turned to Beza.

“I know. I just hate being shot and that scared me. Are you alight?”

The Minotauress drank a healing potion and growled.

“I’m fine. Where did it come from?”

“It must have been in the back. He nearly got me. That filthy—”

Isceil glared at Ksmvr, his hand witching as he drank his own potion. He nearly lifted his wand, but Montressa stopped him.

“You should have put up a barrier. You too, Beza. It was your own carelessness and both of you nearly died because of it. Be careful. This isn’t Wistram and we’re supposed to be professional! Now, let’s finish what we came here to do.”

She looked around as Isceil fell silent, flushing and lashing his tail. The bar was silent, but some adventurers were still awake. Immobilized. Alais was breathing hard as she fought against the webs. She was afraid to use her lightning magic.

“You can’t do this. They’re adventurers!”

“They’re criminals. Shut up. Montressa, capture the Antinium. It’s making me uneasy.”

Isceil snapped at her. He pointed at the other four [Mages].

“Didn’t you hear where we’re from? Wistram Academy. Don’t worry; we’ll release the Antinium and [Warrior] later. But the two [Mages] are both criminals. They’ve committed a number of crimes, including impersonating real Wistram [Mages].”

“Real…? You still can’t—don’t touch Ceria!”

Alais struggled, but she was held captive. Montressa was lifting the black box and before Alais’ horrified eyes, the half-Elf vanished, turning into motes of black light that flowed into the box and the silver doorway. Ulinde yanked the bolt out of her head, grimacing.

“Barbed? Damn it. Listen, they’ll be fine. It’s just a prison. Look, this is all legal.”

“Legal? You attacked an adventuring team in Liscor! You—”

Ulinde ignored Alais. She looked around impatiently.

“Oh, forget it. Palt?”

The Centaur nodded. He blew some smoke out and raised his hands, pointing at the conscious adventurers.

“[Wave of Vacan—]”

When Alais awoke next, she was lying on the floor. The [Sticky Webs] binding her were gone, and it was nightfall. The [Mages] were all long gone. And so were Ceria, Yvlon, and Ksmvr.



—-



The [Mages] left the bar quietly. The street was still full of pedestrians, but no one had noticed the fight. Indeed, no one even glanced at the tavern; Palt’s spell was still active, distracting attention away from it. The Centaur was first to exit; he waited for the rest of his companions.

Isceil was rubbing his arm, swearing.

“It hurts. Damn it, it got my bone. The healing potion got some, but—”

“Tough it out. That was embarrassing.”

Beza was unsympathetic. Her fur was still singed, but she was looking embarrassed.

“We could have had perfect takedowns. But you nearly got stabbed and you lost your shield. I didn’t expect that Human woman to dislocate her shoulder.”

“He broke it! What was that spell?”

“[Shatterbolt]. That’s a dangerous artifact. Think we can pull it off him?”

Ulinde looked excitedly at Montressa. The young woman was leaning on her staff. She didn’t look happy. Instead, she touched the black cube and looked around.

Palt, Ulinde, Beza, and Isceil. They were all young [Mages] from Wistram, but full [Mages]. Top of their years. And she was their leader. She shook her head and adjusted her hood.

“Later. Palt, where’s the Drake you used [Mind Blank] on?”

“I left her over there. She’s got a veil on her; no one’s bothering her.”

Palt nodded to a Drake standing vacantly to the side. Selys Shivertail was still unfocused. The Centaur eyed her, and then turned to Montressa.

“It’ll wear off in an hour. I hit her with a good one.”

“Any side effects?”

“Besides amnesia? No. You want me to dispel it? And what about the bar? They’ll all wake up in there after an hour or two as well. Want me to hold the concealing enchantments on it?”

Montressa nodded absently. Ulinde looked nervously at her.

“We’re breaking a lot of rules, here, Mons. I know this is personal, but—”

She broke off as Montressa’s head snapped up. The young woman glared at Ulinde. Her arm was shaking as it clutched the staff around which the copper orb was slowly rotating.

“It’s Montressa, Ulinde. Not Mons. Remember that. And we’re within our rights to hunt fugitives from Wistram. Isn’t that what you said, Isceil?”

The Drake grimaced, still rubbing at his wrist.

“We should probably have talked to the Watch Captain of the city. But you insisted we go after the [Necromancer] when we saw him.”

“He was about to notice us. He’s not an idiot. We shouldn’t have approached. But we got him. We got him and it’s done. We can make apologies later and pay for damages. If this was a city up north or in Terandria, we’d be fine, probably. How much different is Liscor, Isceil?”

He shrugged, looking annoyed.

“I don’t know! I grew up in Fissival, far from here. And frankly, Liscor’s always been isolated. It’s a border city; it was out of touch before the Antinium settled a damn Hive here.”

“Well, someone needs to go see the Watch Captain and explain matters. And pay for the bar we trashed.”

Beza, or Bezale, the Minotaur, folded her arms. She was fishing around in her bag of holding and now she produced a few scrolls. She eyed them.

“And I need to scribe another [Steel Body] and [Haste] scroll.”

“Being a [Spellscribe] must suck.”

“Not as much as being an [Oldblood Magus] who lost to a third-year student who was expelled, Isceil. So much for the dueling master.”

“I—shut up.”

The Drake clenched both claws, too furious for a reply. Montressa shook her head.

“I told you he was dangerous. He’s avoided capture from all the other teams who found him for a reason. Enough. We still have work. But someone has to talk to the Watch Captain.”

“Not me.”

Beza looked up instantly. Ulinde echoed her. Everyone turned to look at Isceil. He glared.

“What?”

Palt exhaled; he was still smoking. It was almost perpetual if you knew him.

“You’re a Drake, Isceil.”

“So? Why do I have to talk to some petty Watch Captain? You do it Palt.”

“What? I don’t want to.”

“You didn’t help during the capture.”

“Not my job.”

The Centaur looked affronted, but he sensed Isceil’s mood. He looked at Montressa, and she paused.

“You are the best at negotiations, Palt.”

The Centaur sighed loudly. Ulinde patted him on the flank.

“Just slap on [Arlell’s Articulation] and [Charming Visage]. If she’s got magic detection spells, do something non-magical and charming. You’re the [Illusionist]. I’m a Selphid, there’s that thing with the Minotaur, Isceil’s mad and Mons is the boss. There’s only you.”

“I don’t know why I agreed to come with you all. Fine. Where’s this Watch Captain? Oh, and give me the gold bag, Mons. I might have to pay a lot.”

Palt sighed. Mons handed him a pouch and he took it. Isceil looked around.

“I don’t know where the Watch barracks is. Go ask a [Guardsman] and they’ll point it to you.”

“Thanks.”

The Centaur snorted and trotted off in a huff. Isceil shouted after his back.

“And put out that stupid roll-up! It’s illegal to have cloudleaf in most Drake cities! Let alone whatever you put in that thing.”

He saw Palt turn his head and glare before marching back. Montressa looked at Beza and the Minotauress shook her head hopelessly. Palt spat the smoking roll from his lips and caught it magically in the air. He glared at Isceil.

“First of all, it’s not a ‘roll-up’. And neither is it a ‘joint’. This is a spliff, hence the tobacco leaves I’ve added to the cloudleaves. It’s quite good.”

“Really? Then I’ll have one.”

Isceil moderated his tone and reached for it. Palt made it vanish and the Drake glared at him.

“No. You want one? Pay up. These aren’t cheap and I can’t buy more ingredients easily in Drake cities. [Alchemists] charge far too much around here.”

“Just get out of here.”

The Drake rudely turned his back. Palt trotted off huffily. His companions watched him go. After a second, Beza snorted.

“Spliff? What is that? Some new concoction?”

“He probably learned it from the guests.”

Ulinde nodded knowingly at the others. Beza paused.

“Oh, right. Them.”

There was a thoughtful pause. Everyone knew something, but the only person who knew a lot was…they all glanced at the young woman. Montressa was still looking at the black cube that now held the Horns of Hammerad. She glanced up as Beza addressed her casually.

“The Ea—I mean, uh, Aaron helped you make your attack orb, right, Montressa?”

Montressa looked up and frowned.

“Yes. But he didn’t say what’s in it and I’m not letting you open it up. It’s experimental. Are you all finished? Let’s go, then.”

She looked around, shoulders hunched. Ulinde exchanged a glance with Isceil and the Drake forgot his ire for a second. Beza looked at her friend, concerned. She paused, and her tone grew softer.

“Montressa, I know you’ve been on edge. But relax. You got him.”

She gestured at the black cube, the Silent Box that she’d passed to Montressa.

“It’s over, Montressa. If you want, I’ll take the box—”

“No. I’ve got it.”

Montressa replied quickly. Her face was taut as she touched the cube and then her hand flew away. Ulinde saw Beza look at her and shrugged helplessly. Isceil grinned.

“Maybe you’ll stop having those nightmares, eh?”

Montressa glared at him along with the other two female [Mages]. Isceil’s smile vanished.

“What? Why are you biting my tail off? We did it! Fine, it was messy, but we got the murderer. And his team. Why’s she still mad?”

He pointed accusingly at Montressa. The young woman paused. She took a deep breath. Then she nodded. She tried to smile.

“Yes. Yes. I did. Thank you. All of you. But we’re not done here. We do have more tasks, remember?”

“Finding ‘L’, investigating the [Emperor]—and getting the magic door from Liscor as well as investigating that report of a…guest. We had to skip the [Emperor] and ‘L’ because of that Oldblood raid. Thank goodness for Wistram’s intelligence.”

Beza nodded briskly. Isceil was nodding too.

“Alright, so the door and this Human. Where is it? I’ll be glad to use the thing; we had to march all the way to Liscor so we didn’t run into—”

He nodded at the cube on Montressa’s belt. She nodded absently and pulled out a folded bit of paper. She studied it.

“Erin Solstice, [Innkeeper]. We’re investigating her and we want the magic door in her inn.”

“Ooh, two for one. Hey, is that the inn people were talking about? The one the [Guards] warned us did weird stuff? And in Celum? And Esthelm?”

Ulinde brightened up. Montressa nodded, smiling a bit. The brooding, anxious mood that had engulfed her the closer they’d come to the source of her fears was lightening, and all her friends were glad to see it. They began walking through the streets, talking.

“I think it’s the eastern gate. That’s what they said, right?”

“Yup. Inn on a hill. I can’t wait to see the magic door. Think the Archmages can disenchant it and copy the spell?”

“Maybe? Archmage Naili thinks she can. Although why we don’t have a teleportation spell like this—”

“Upper floors, probably. She was experimenting with the ones we know, and she’s coming close, but she wants a perfect copy. Imagine having a bunch of them in Wistram?”

“What if the [Innkeeper] really is like…Aaron? I hear she’s crazy. She can spit blood, she kills Shield Spiders with her bare hands, and she took down a gang in Celum all by herself!”

“That’s an exaggeration. But remember the battle with the Face-Eater moths? I want to talk to her.”

Beza was grinning, excited by the idea. Mons smiled.

“If she is, we’ll need to split up, maybe, or ask for retrieval. We still have to investigate the [Emperor] and ‘L’, so don’t relax yet.”

The others nodded, but Ulinde piped up. The Selphid was rubbing her hands together eagerly.

“Okay, we get the door, but we have to stay here a few days, okay? The Halfseekers are around Liscor last I heard. I have to meet Jelaqua Ivirith. Don’t say anything, Isceil! She’s my hero!”

Beza nodded as Isceil rolled his eyes. The Minotauress glanced around darkly, noting the unfriendly stares Gnolls and Drakes were giving her.

“I have some business here too. But let’s visit this inn, first. I’m hungry, and I hear this Erin Solstice serves interesting food.”

“Let me go first, though. And remember—the Horns stayed at her inn. So not a word about them. We need to be careful, so that means you keep your mouth shut, Beza. And you, Isceil. And Ulinde. Palt’s the only one I trust, actually.”

“Thanks, Montressa.”

The others laughed, relaxing. They found the magical door and inspected it for a while. There was a queue lined up, mostly Drakes and Gnolls. A few of them recoiled from Beza before they realized she wasn’t Calruz; the Minotauress folded her arms darkly. But then, after less than four minutes of waiting, the door opened.

“Sorry for the delay! Come on in! Anyone travelling to Celum? Esthelm?”

A friendly Drake waved the crowd in. The [Mages] blinked in surprise, but they entered the warm, inviting inn. On the far end of the long room, there were [Actors] setting up on stage. The tables were full of guests, and servers carrying hot food were coming in and out of the kitchen, serving at terrific speed! Montressa smiled and looked around. Then her eye fell on a sign over the bar.

No Killing Goblins. She pointed it out and the [Mages] all blinked. Beza stiffened when she saw the Hobgoblin, but before the [Mages] could wait, a young woman was guiding them to the a table.

“Right here. Table for four? Five? A Centaur?”

Lyonette blinked at Montressa. The [Mage] blinked back. Lyonette’s hair was nearly as red at hers; that was a rarer sight on Izril, as opposed to the old Terandrian bloodlines. But she was too preoccupied with explaining about Palt.

“Not to worry! We can get some pillows and we do have larger chairs for your friend. Miss Minotaur? If you’d like to sit here—Drassi? Where are the chairs we use for Moore? We need one!”

“This is good!”

Despite himself, Isceil looked pleased as they sat and found an appetizer already appearing on their table. He stared at the long tubes of potato.

“What are these?”

“French fries. Complimentary! Try some—this is a small basket, but I can give you a larger portion if you order. With condiments!”

Lyonette smiled. She completely missed the way Montressa and the other [Mages] sat up at the word ‘French’. Ulinde inspected the fries.

“Aw, they look good. I wish my taste buds weren’t half-decayed. Hey, Montressa, I might need to switch it out.”

“Don’t talk to me, Ulinde. I want to eat. I think this is our place, Mons. Where’s the [Innkeeper].”

“I’ll ask.”

Beza leaned back and waved at the young woman who was coming back with drinks. Lyonette looked surprised.

“Erin? She’s talking with some of our [Actors]. They’re going to perform in a bit—a classic, Macbeth, but she’s trying to teach them a new performance. Horror. Do you know about our plays?”

Fascinated, the [Mages] shook their heads. Montressa leaned forwards as Lyonette explained that they were now doing a horror-themed lineup, including classics like Psycho, and The Shining. Erin had found new ways to adapt her world’s work into this one and she was monetizing plagiarism.

“Well, if you stay for another night, we’ll have a performance for you to see! I’m afraid we don’t have many rooms open; the inn’s under construction by the Antinium. I don’t want to bother Erin…”

“Would you mind if we talked? I’d like to make—a special order. For the table? We’d be willing to pay d—triple.”

Lyonette’s eyes lit up.

“I’ll see what I can do!”

She hurried off. Montressa sat up a bit. Isceil turned to Beza.

“Ten gold says it’s just a regular Human. Maybe met one of the guests.”

“Ten gold? Are you mad? It’s got to be her.”

“I think it’s too much of a coincidence. I’m playing the long odds. Give me ten-to-one odds.”

“…Deal.”

The [Mages] waited, munching down on the fries and looking around. A white Gnoll cub was prowling around, trying to steal or beg snacks. And the Hobgoblin was strumming on a guitar. Montressa felt the hair at the back of her neck stir. She turned as a young woman hurried over away from the stage.

“Hi there! My name’s Erin Solstice! Welcome to my inn! Lyonette said you have a special order? Hey, are you all [Mages]?”

She had an infectious smile and a welcoming personality. Even Isceil relaxed. Erin looked at Beza.

“And a Minotaur and a Selphid? Whoa! Cool!”

It put a smile on Beza and Ulinde’s faces. Montressa smiled too. She paused as the others introduced themselves. Erin turned to her.

“And you are? No—wait. Let me get your order first. Lyonette said you wanted something specific?”

Montressa nodded carefully. She’d spotted the menu over the bar and her heart was racing. She was sure. Isceil was an idiot for not having read it. She spoke slowly, looking at Erin. Watching her face.

“I am. I think you might have some of this but—do you have anything like an American cheeseburger? Or perhaps an Indian curry? Anything Chinese?”

She was prepared to go on. But she didn’t need to. Erin was smiling at first, but then she paused. Her eyes widened. Her jaw dropped and she stared at Montressa.

“I—I—are you—”

Yes. Montressa knew it. Beza smiled and nudged Ulinde. The Selphid was grinning. Isceil just leaned back, rolling his eyes and cursing as he spotted the menu. He drew a sigil in the air with his wand. A hush enveloped the table as Montressa stood. Erin was gaping at her. But Montressa was used to it. She nodded to Erin, smiling reassuringly.

“Miss Erin Solstice, we’re [Mages] sent by Wistram looking for people from Earth. You are from Earth, aren’t you?”

“I—yes.”

Erin hesitated, but there was no point denying it. Her shock was proof enough. Montressa nodded. She smiled and reached out.

“We’re here to take you home to the others.”

“Others?”

The Wistram [Mages] all smiled at Erin. And Montressa felt her heart lighten. After the grief and pain of seeing the monster and Ceria—at least this was good. She nodded, glad to be the bearer of good news.

“That’s right. There are others. They’re all at Wistram. Miss Erin Solstice, we’d like to bring you to Wistram. To meet other people from Earth. And not just that. We’re going to help you go home.”





6.58


“We’re going to help you go home.”

Erin Solstice stared at the young woman, the Human [Mage] who smiled and held out a hand towards her. Her eyes went wide, and her mind went blank. She felt the veil of silence around them, which cut off all sound. Even the other [Mages] at the table couldn’t hear what Montressa was saying.

And even had she not been stunned, Erin would probably not have noticed the little black cube with the silver door painted on one side that held the Horns of Hammerad. She would not have known what had transpired. She might have guessed, had she known Montressa du Valeross’ name, pieced it together with her knowledge of Pisces and Ceria’s past. But she was distracted. The pretty young woman with bright red hair smiled at her and brought back a memory, a dream.

Home.



—-



It was raining in Baleros. Probably. And there were all kinds of nasty insects, monsters—and you had to deal with mercenary armies, companies, and that was where Lizardpeople lived. Not that Zevara bought into the hating them thing. Even so, sometimes she looked at Watch Captain applications for other continents.

Baleros didn’t have Watch Captain as a standard job, but there were parallels. You could get paid well, have respect—it would take a while, but someone with Zevara’s resume might be able to swing it.

Maybe then she wouldn’t have to deal with idiots walking into her office. The Watch Captain glared over her desk at the Centaur. Palt. He’d talked his way in here, but unfortunately, she couldn’t fault the Gnoll on duty down below for letting him up here.

“Let me get this straight. You’re here to tell me—after the fact—that you’re part of a team of [Mages] sent by Wistram to apprehend a wanted criminal? And that you already did catch your quarry in a magical duel in the city? Oh, and that your team is already elsewhere and your team’s leader did not choose to visit me herself?”

The Centaur shuffled his hooves. Palt, the [Illusionist] and subject of Zevara’s wrath, really wished he had something to smoke. Still, he put on his best smile and spread his arms wide, peaceably, trying not to paw the floorboards nervously with a hoof.

“It’s my sincere regret, Watch Captain, but we’ve been hunting this particular criminal for months. It’s been a long journey and my leader would have contacted you at once! But we just arrived and we saw the fugitive with one of your civilians and out of concern—”

“You arrested someone in my city. With, what? A criminal record? I don’t recall any—I don’t recall more than four individuals in this city with outstanding bounties, and none of them are enforceable within Liscor’s walls! None of them recent, either!”

Zevara was reaching for a drawer in her desk, glaring up at Palt. He hesitated. He was under the influence of two charm spells, but all that seemed to be doing was slowing the boil of the Drake’s temper in front of him.

“Watch Captain, the matter is somewhat private. Wistram did not put out a formal bounty on the individual—”

The Drake’s head snapped up.

“You mean, you arrested a civilian with no criminal record?”

Palt subvocalized another spell, [Soothing Presence]. It didn’t seem to work that much, but Zevara’s claws stopped digging into the desk. Verbally, he smiled weakly.

“Not just a civilian, Watch Captain. Not a member of Liscor either. An adventurer, in fact. And they are a known criminal—I can refer you to several cities with an outstanding bounty on their head.”

The Watch Captain stared at Palt. She didn’t know why she hadn’t arrested him or thrown her out one of her windows. She—paused. A thought occurred to her, born out of training and she glanced surreptitiously at her claw. Then she pulled open a desk. Of all the damn times to—

“This is a matter of Wistram Academy’s interests, Watch Captain. And we are extremely sorry to have infringed upon Liscor’s laws, but a [Mage] crime should be solved by [Mages]. Of course, my team and I are fully prepared to recompense the city for any damages caused. There were um, some other incidents regarding a second fugitive by association.”

“Such as?”

The Centaur had such a soothing voice. Zevara almost wanted to sit back and let him tell his side of things. She was looking. Let’s see—second drawer down—she pulled out a neatly-folded handkerchief and grimaced. She needed to organize her things, but—Palt was nodding.

“A—small conflict in a bar. We have the rest of the individual’s team in custody, and there was some damage to the bar itself. The patrons might be waking up as we speak.”

Zevara’s head slowly rose.

“You trashed a bar? Where was the Watch?”

Palt squirmed.

“We took ah, magical measures to avoid a larger conflict. And there’s the matter of a civilian we had to pacify—the fugitive we apprehended was in danger of threatening her or taking her hostage. He’s done so in the past.”

Zevara’s claw nudged aside a spare ink pot. There. She pulled something out, stared at it. She hated the stupid thing. Whomever the [Enchanter] had been, they had made the most insanely idiotic little face—Human, even worse, it looked like a fleshy pig smiling at her—and attached it to the charm. She refused to wear it most of the time. Still. She absently wrapped it around her claw, keeping her hands under the desk.

“You…cast a spell on a citizen?”

“Only one to keep her out of trouble! She’s quite safe, I can assure you. She’s downstairs, with your exemplary Watch. You may inspect her as I remove the enchantment. And I will of course, pay for any distress caused—and the damages—and furnish you with a report from Wistram on the individual we apprehended.”

He wasn’t telling her the name. But he sounded so polite…and she was feeling calmer than she had in weeks! Zevara almost smiled as the Centaur gave her a soothing, deferential nod. She glanced down under the table—

And the little, smiling face had turned into a horror-mask of fury. Zevara paused. She looked up at Palt. Her eyes narrowed and silently, she bit her tongue, drawing blood. Below the desk she silently kicked her biggest toe into the side.

The agony made her eyes water. And her head clear. Zevara slowly looked up. Palt was smiling at her. She smiled back, slowly lowering the charm back into the desk drawer.

“Tell me, Mage Palt. And I would like to say, Wistram’s [Mages] are guests of the city—I did call for some help—”

“Which we’re only too willing to provide, Watch Captain!”

Palt sighed in relief. Zevara nodded slowly. She watched him.

“Who is the citizen below? Are you aware? And who was arrested? An adventurer and their team?”

The Centaur paused, but Zevara looked very calm. He gave her another smile just to be sure.

“The individual calls herself Selys Shivertail. She’s quite calm, but I thought this was the place to undo the spell. And ah, we arrested an individual known as Pisces Jealnet. A [Necromancer] who is also responsible for the death of dozens of Wistram’s [Mages]. His team is likewise in our custody, but two of them will be released shortly. You have my—Wistram’s word, Watch Captain Zevara.”

The Drake’s brows shot up. She stared at Palt.

“Pisces?”

“You know of him?”

“He’s a murderer?”

“Responsible for deaths, certainly. I will be only too happy to ask the academy to list his full crimes, Watch Captain. But my team is waiting—may I ask you to accompany me in soothing the Drake? She will need the matter explained, but I’m only too happy to use a [Calm] spell. And then we can discuss the matter of damages—for your time, we’d be only too willing to make a sizable contribution to the Watch? As a matter of gratitude?”

He smiled again. Zevara paused. She stared at Palt, and then nodded slowly.

“By all means. It is Wistram Academy we’re talking about.”

The [Illusionist] Centaur smiled, relieved, as she stood and gestured for him to follow. At last! If he was lucky, he might get to go to the inn and have something to eat before everyone else was done. They owed him large for this. He wondered if the [Innkeeper], Erin Solstice, really was one of the people they were seeking. His stomach rumbled as he absently twiddled his fingers, undoing a spell.

Below, in the Watch Barracks, Selys Shivertail sat up. Her absent gaze focused, and she sat up fast, nearly head-butting Senior Guardswoman Beilmark, who had been waving a paw in front of her face and asking slow questions. She looked around wildly. And then she began to scream.

In Zevara’s office, Palt winced. He probably should have been down there and used a calming spell first. He began to weave one, for the entire Watch house. He cast it, exhaling hard. But he was a [Fairday Illusionist], and good times were his specialty. If he was smoking something the effect would have been even stronger.

As it was, the scream lowered in intensity. Palt sighed as he turned and Watch Captain Zevara stood.

“I think some explanations are in order, Watch Captain.”

“Oh, certainly, Magus Palt. After you?”

He nodded. Montressa owed him large for this. He was really, really hungry. He trotted for the door—



—-



There were four [Mages] in The Wandering Inn. Well, four real [Mages]. That was an important distinction. Anyone could call themselves a [Mage] or teach themselves magic like the [Hedge Mage] casting poor illusion spells around the [Actors] on stage, but only a few knew how to use magic.

Four such sat here now. They were all full [Mages] of Wistram. Experts in their field of magic and agents of the academy. They did what needed doing, what few others could. And one of those things was this.

“I can’t believe it. There are more people from Earth? In Wistram?”

Erin was speaking to Montressa. Her eyes were wide, and she was standing with the other [Mage] in a small veil of silence. Montressa’s companions, the Selphid Ulinde, Isceil, the Oldblood Drake, and the Minotauress known as Beza all watched. They couldn’t see the entire conversation; it was muted to them too, but they could guess.

They’d seen it before. Erin looked unsteady, so Montressa held out a hand, steadying her. The young woman stared at her. She said something. Ulinde leaned over to Isceil.

“Bet she’s asking how many there are. Or if they know what’s happening back in her wor—”

Isceil’s tail slapped at her and Ulinde shut up. Beza also gave the Selphid a glare and Ulinde cringed.

“Ulinde.”

“Sorry! I’m just rattled from earlier. I still have a hole in my head! It’s letting air in!”

The Selphid raised her claws, pointing at the hole in her skull. Isceil made a disgusted sound and looked away.

“Cover that up. And remember, don’t say anything without a [Hush] spell or greater in effect!”

Then he smirked.

“Still, I do think she’s asking about that. Ancestors, we have to shepherd this Human all the way to a port?”

“Or hire a carriage. In that case we can send two with her while the other three check on someone else. Or ask Wistram to send an escort. It will take some doing, but we have time.”

Beza leaned back, munching on some french fries. Isceil made a face.

“Whatever it takes, I suppose. We should just be grateful this one’s not crying and clinging to us. Speaking of which—”

He glanced around the inn and stared pointedly at the Hobgoblin sitting with his book, the [Actors] on stage, and then the rather lively room of guests being served by an active staff. Isceil hesitated.

“—this inn is fairly prosperous. Do you think this Human runs it? Herself? She has to have gotten it from someone or perhaps she’s getting help.”

“People seemed to think she was in charge, Isceil. What’s wrong? Don’t you like the fries?”

Ulinde reached for some. Isceil shot up.

“Get your claws off my fries. They’re on my plate, Ulinde. See? Mine. And this…‘guest’ is the best we’ve seen so far.”

“Agreed. But some of them have to have done well. I heard there are Terandrian teams searching for one that’s a [Hunter]. And another—the singer, you know?”

Isceil and Ulinde nodded. The Selphid sighed longingly.

“Lucky. I have some of her songs. If it weren’t for us coming here to meet the Halfseekers, I’d have gone to Terandria.”

“Better that than Baleros. Imagine hunting for guests in the jungles? They’re probably all dead. Or eaten by Lizardpeople.”

“What is it with you Drakes and Lizardpeople?”

Beza looked a bit disapproving as she reached for another fry and found they were all gone. Isceil folded his arms; Montressa was blinking as Erin waved her hands about, pointing at the young [Barmaid] who’d served the table, the Hobgoblin, and the little white Gnoll who was being chased off, a meatball in her mouth, from a table of adult Gnolls.

“They’re copycats. And they giggle all the time. They’re idiotic, they insult us, and historically they were on the side of the Dullahans—”

“They live on Baleros! They’re a different species—how are you like them? They’re good natured, they tell jokes about Drakes instead of outright insulting your species like you do to them, and they were against Dragons—”

“They have stupid wing-flaps on their heads! They look like—walking flowers!”

“You mean, neck frills? But they’re so colorful! Besides, you have spines. Isn’t that—”

Ulinde jumped as Isceil brought one fist down.

“It is nothing alike.”

Beza rolled her eyes, but didn’t say anything. Ulinde was smacking her lips; even deteriorated, her taste buds had liked that meal. She eyed Montressa as the [Mage] stepped back and tapped her staff on the ground. The silence enfolding her and Erin faded and the two’s voices faded in.

“Okay. I have to go. But we have to talk! Are you going anywhere? I have empty rooms! You can stay here tonight!”

Montressa was nodding, smiling beneficently as Erin looked around. Some of the [Actors] were waving at her and Temile was hurrying her way.

“Erin! Miss Erin! I hate to bother you, but the [Seamstress] must ask you a few questions.”

“Um, coming, Temile!”

Erin called distractedly to the [Actor]. She turned back to Montressa. Her eyes were still wide.

“Will you—”

Montressa ducked her head, smiling.

“Of course. We’ll stay right here. We can discuss staying—as I said, Wistram will find a solution and I will consult with my superiors at once. But perhaps it would be more appropriate to talk in private? After dinner?”

“Yes! Absolutely!”

The [Innkeeper] nodded again. She turned and then swiveled around.

“Oh! Right! You want food, right?”

The [Mages] brightened up. Work was one thing, and seeing their good deeds another, but food was food and [Mages] from Wistram loved food.

“Absolutely! We can order from the menu.”

“Sure! Or—you know, I can get you what you wanted. Hamburgers. Cheeseburgers. We have actual curry too. I mean, I have the ingredients, but I’ve never made it.”

“Really?”

All the [Mages] looked interested. Beza nudged Ulinde; she’d heard of the dishes, but they hadn’t been replicated yet—or at least, not for the consumption of people not actively working with the Earthworlders at Wistram.

It was a known secret, although you had to be a full [Mage] of Wistram and fairly well-connected in influence or secrets to know more. Ulinde, Beza, Palt, Isceil, and Montressa all had enough clout to know something, although Montressa probably knew the most.

She was a secret-broker after all, partnered with Beatrice. And fairly high-placed in her faction, the Revivalists. All of the young [Mages] were; they were the best of their years, prodigies. They didn’t think of themselves like that of course, but they were definitely above most of their peers.

“What is this cur-rhee?”

Isceil looked suspiciously at Erin. She smiled, her eyes flicking from face to face. She really was handling the news well. Beza was impressed, but then again, maybe she was in shock. That had happened too, with that young girl they picked up in First Landing…

“Curry? It’s um, well, it’s like…a stew! Except more…you know what? It’s like a thick stew you put over other food. It’s very good—I can make it vegetable, but it usually has meat. It’s spicy generally—”

“Spicy?”

Isceil’s eyes lit up. He nodded before Erin could continue.

“I’ll have a bowl, then. Or plate.”

“Curry and rice, then. And everyone else?”

Beza looked at Ulinde. She shrugged.

“Can we share a…curry?”

Erin beamed.

“Sure, I’ll make a big pot. Can I get you appetizers?”

“More of these potato-things.”

“French fries! Sure! And let me get you some condiments. Curry will be a bit since it needs to be actually made—wanna hamburger or pizza or something before it comes out? It’s filling but—”

“We’ll take it. We’re still waiting on Palt, anyways.”

The [Mages] brightened at the assortment of food Erin was describing. They were hungry from spellcasting and with the exception of Beza who regarded fat as a sin and Ulinde, who inhabited anybody she chose, all of them were used to good eating. And they had large appetites; magic-users burned energy like no one’s business. Erin nodded, backing away and calling orders at a passing Gnoll. They watched as she hurried towards the impatient [Actor], still glancing over her shoulder.

“She bolted. How’d she take it, Montressa?”

“Very well. She didn’t panic or anything. We’ll need to convince her to leave the inn, actually.”

Montressa sighed as she placed the staff on the table. The floating copper orb hovering around it slowed and hovered in midair. She nodded at Erin.

“I told her about Aaron and the others. And the safety of Wistram, but—she actually owns this inn.”

“Seriously?”

Isceil blinked. Montressa nodded.

“Not only that. She told me that little Gnoll’s her ward and she’s employing the staff here—and that the Goblin’s her guest!”

“Dead gods.”

Beza turned and stared at the Hobgoblin darkly. She saw Erin talking to the [Actor], waving her hands and stabbing with a knife, pantomiming something—he was backing away. Ulinde looked concerned.

“That might be a problem. What’d you say, Montressa?”

“That we’d take the Gnoll and her uh, keeper, the [Barmaid]. Even consider the Hobgoblin if it came to it.”

“You can’t be serious.”

The Minotauress’ head turned around. Montressa grimaced.

“She said they were her family! I’ll need to talk to Wistram. Tomorrow. It might be harder to persuade her than we thought.”

“I’m not travelling with a Goblin. Just toss a [Charm] spell on the [Innkeeper] and let’s go. Or have you forgotten we have…”

Isceil’s eyes narrowed as he nodded at the black cube on Montressa’s belt. She adjusted her robes, concealing it.

“I haven’t. But you know our orders. We need to maintain good relationships, and that means we can’t just charm someone. We’ll try diplomacy. And if it comes to it, Palt will be the one casting spells. He can do it subtlety, Isceil.”

Ulinde glanced around the inn. It really was hopping. She saw Erin Solstice talking to the [Actor], and then pausing by the Hobgoblin’s table as the [Barmaid], Lyonette came over. Erin was gesturing at their table.

“Wait, is she telling it about us?”

Beza was instantly alarmed. Montressa waved a hand.

“Don’t worry. She’s probably just reassuring it since you’re here, Beza. She took my warning seriously; she’s desperate to go back home, she said.”

“Well, she’d better leave the Hobgoblin. Did she say if she knew any other guests? That would be a victory for our team.”

Isceil looked at Montressa. The [Mage] shook her head instantly.

“She didn’t know anyone, she said. Pity, but she is fairly well cut off, even with the door. She started this inn, you know. Found it abandoned; fixed it up.”

“I can see that. She’s quite a nice personality. Simple; engaging—perfect for an [Innkeeper]. Not like some of the guests.”

Ulinde smiled. Montressa nodded, relaxed. She waved at Isceil as the Hobgoblin, not even looking at their table, immediately went back to his book.

“Let her be, Isceil. She’s taking it in. And this is a fascinating inn.”

“Did you tell her about the Horns, Montressa?”

A look flashed across Montressa’s face.

“No. And I told her my name was Elenope. We’ll tell her the truth—later. Once she’s decided to come to Wistram. She must not know what…Pisces…was. Or he tricked her. Probably that. He’s always been good at deceiving people.”

Her hand unconsciously went to her staff. Beza patted her on the shoulder.

“Relax, Montressa. I agree with everything you’ve said. Still, an inn, employees—it might be harder to persuade her.”

Montressa shrugged.

“We’ll get Palt’s opinion. Tonight, we eat and make a good impression—stay here, perhaps. We’ll sort out the rest later. If we need to stay here longer than a few days, I’ll send this via Courier.”

She tapped the Silent Box. The other three [Mages] nodded slowly. Montressa’s face had tightened. Beza held out a hand.

“I can watch it—”

“I have it.”

That was that. The [Mages] changed topics as the food arrived. Isceil blinked as a pizza appeared, thin-crust, along with more fries and condiments.

“It’s not even been a minute!”

“Sorry about that. We’re busy. Don’t fill up; Erin’s making a huge pot of that orange stuff in the kitchen! Say, I hear a Centaur’s coming, right? Actually, will this be enough food? Between a Centaur and a Minotaur—”

Drassi apologized, then grinned at Beza. The Minotaur didn’t look insulted.

“I could eat half this round thing and have room. And my companions are pigs.”

“Don’t make me transform you. Dead gods, is this all cheese?”

Isceil looked dismayed. Montressa raised a knife and fork, intrigued. Drassi laughed.

“You eat it by claw! And let me know if you want refills!”

“Hah, you couldn’t transform an ant, Isceil. You’re all magical breath and nothing else. Hot air, mostly!”

“I can breathe two elements at once and each one I choose, Beza. What can you do? Read a scroll?”

“Remind me who lost to the exiled disgrace? You said you could take him in less than a minute.”

“I was winning—that [Shatterbolt] would never be used in a duel in the Academy—”

The [Mages] were talking lively. Montressa was exclaiming over the pizza with Ulinde.

“This would go amazingly at one of the room parties. With some ale? And these fries!”

They were stuffing themselves. Ulinde nodded energetically. Then she ducked. Isceil stopped arguing with Beza and froze.

“That’s a damn bee the size of my face hovering next to your head, Beza!”

“What?”

Reflexively, Beza swatted, then saw Apista and froze. The Ashfire Bee buzzed the table. A voice called out and Lyonette stormed past.

“Apista! Don’t you dare! Sorry about that, everyone. That’s my um, pet. Apista, go over there! Over there!”

She waved and the bee buzzed away, sad as could be. For she was not a bee that was free. Free to eat the delicious fries with their salt! The Wistram [Mages] stared as she alit on a row of flower boxes. Isceil stared.

“What was that?”

Beza rolled her eyes.

“Ashfire Bee, Isceil. Haven’t you ever taken a lesson on monstrous creatures? At least read a book on Izril’s fauna.”

Coursework didn’t stop when you graduated. You could spend eight years and then continue learning as an apprentice to a senior [Mage] and then join a research group where you were just another peer hitting the books or searching for ways to improve your magic. Of course, not everyone did that. Some, like Montressa, had no teacher, or had halted the bulk of their studies after graduation to pursue other activities.

Isceil just looked incredulous.

“A bee, a Hobgoblin—and I’ve never seen a Gnoll with white fur! What’s next, dancing Fraerlings in the attic?”

“Oh, hush. This inn’s got it all. I want to see these [Actors] that Erin mentioned.”

Montressa was smiling to herself. Erin had gone back to work; she looked preoccupied as she talked to the [Actors]. Drassi hurried past the Wistram [Mage]’s table. Beza caught a fragment of her conversation.

“Hey, Ishkr, have you seen the Horns? If you have, send Ceria and Pisces to Erin—”

The Minotauress stiffened, but Montressa didn’t seem to have heard. Beza relaxed as she saw the Gnoll shake her head. Drassi sighed.

“I’d better find them. No, it’s an order…”

The Minotauress cleared her throat to distract Montressa in case she heard. She nodded towards the table with Numbtongue at it as her friends looked at her.

“A damn Hobgoblin. That’s not just a danger or a pet, you know. I can’t believe it.”

“Steady, Beza. It’s just one. There are four—five of us. We’re a Gold-rank team by ourselves.”

Isceil rolled his eyes. Beza glared at him.

“They’re no joke! Izril just had a Goblin Lord. One. I know what I’m talking about when I say you cannot trust Goblins. You don’t know what they’re really like. In the isles—”

The Drake was opening and closing his mouth and right claw, imitating Beza speaking as he rolled his eyes. She swung at him, and not jokingly. He leaned back, swearing. Beza glared at him, and then at the young woman. Erin waved back, smiling; she’d been staring their way. Ulinde laughed.

“She’s terrible at this! Montressa!”

“Don’t. I like her. We’ll have a talk; she’s not going to make any big mistakes, and if she does? Palt can use a memory spell.”

“When we bring Erin Solstice back with us, I’ll need to speak to her about them.”

Beza grumbled as she folded her arms. The other [Mages] sighed, but they went back to finishing the pizza as an opening and soon Isceil was calling for a refill. They were relaxed, and never noticed Erin’s worried looks at them, or Drassi going into Celum to ask Octavia—and then into Liscor.



—-



Erin was worried. Her mind was spinning. People from Wistram were here? They wanted her to come with them? All the way to Wistram? She had no idea what to do! Fortunately, the young [Mage] had let her go, but Erin had to talk to Pisces. Not about more people from Earth existing, maybe, but at least about Wistram! Of all the times for him to be gone! And Ryoka too! She was worried because she didn’t know what to say to the Wistram team.

Even so, it was only partly worry, to Erin. Mostly it was longing. Expectation. Fear. Hope—the Horns of Hammerad didn’t show up as the dinner crowd truly arrived, but the inn was busy and they could be out on the town. They’d be back sometime, and Erin would talk to them then, get some feedback about Wistram. But they were there to take her home. Erin felt her heart beating faster, wondering what she should do.

Home?

Home. It called to her, and Erin kept glancing back at the [Mages]. To distract herself, she set about really impressing them and getting that curry ready! She actually had rice, thanks to Lasica and Rufelt! It grew on Baleros, but also, apparently, Oteslia, and the [Chef] had given her a bag.

Erin was boiling it in the kitchen, swearing as she hunted for the spices and all the right stuff that her [Advanced Cooking] told her was essential in a proper curry. She was going to make one plate that was super spicy for the Drake and maybe Minotaur and some regular spice—still very hot—for everyone else. Everyone would love it!

Outside, the [Actors] were getting into their routine. They were doing My Fair Lady followed by Macbeth due to popular demand, but tomorrow they’d be trying horror. They were already booked all morning to have their lead Norman Bates really work up an unhealthy Oedipus-voyeur complex.

Erin couldn’t wait. She smiled as she cooked, trying to think, sticking her head out now and then for a telltale sniff or pointy pair of ears or Antinium with three arms. Yvlon was least distinctive, sadly, even with her lovely hair.

In the common room, the [Mages] were enjoying themselves no end. Barely twenty minutes had passed, but they’d already eaten one pizza and were now drinking before a second course as they snacked on some of Erin’s other treats. Erin had given the staff the intelligence that the Wistram [Mages] were priority guests, and so they were getting fed—and fed well!

“Palt is going to kill us when he realizes what he’s missed. You think he’s done with that Watch Captain yet?”

Isceil burped as he replied to Montressa. The young woman was laughing, in good spirits at last.

“Bah, he’ll be there at least an hour. Watch Captains are jumped up in local cities. Little tyrants. Frankly, it’s easier up north in your Human cities. They’re all corrupt and you can just bribe them.”

“That’s Izril’s cities, Isceil. In Terandria, we get respect. Even help.”

Montressa wagged a finger at Isceil. The Drake rolled his eyes.

“Spare me. I’m not a Revivalist and I’m not a teat-sucking Human.”

“At least you’re not a Libertarian. Imagine one of them on our team?”

“They’d never come. We’re going to Izril, not Terandria, and no one but Montressa’s Human. And she’s better than most of her species.”

“Thank you, Isceil.”

Montressa replied drily. She was drinking when she spotted a tiny white-furred shape prowling around the tables to their left. Mrsha was surprisingly hard to spot thanks to her Skills, but the white-furred Gnoll wasn’t exactly camouflaged.

“Oh! Who’s this?”

Entranced, and not a little bit drunk, Ulinde leaned over her chair and waved at Mrsha. The Gnoll happily trotted over, giving them her ‘I am starving and you had better feed me’ look. She was immediately handed a bit of hamburger and chowed it down. Montressa and Ulinde bent over her, enraptured.

“I forgot how cute kids were! Least of all Gnoll kids! There’s only that baby Dullahan that Council Mage Redelia had and it’s ugly. And I’ve never seen a Gnoll baby!”

“No wonder, with how they get on at Wistram. Boycotting us because only one in ten thousand can cast magic at all. And she’s not a dog, Ulinde. Stop that!”

Beza scolded Ulinde. The Selphid watched as Mrsha leapt and snatched the hamburger bite from her dangling claws with both paws. The Minotauress hesitated.

“Hello little one. I—”

She was hesitating to touch Mrsha, wary of her huge size compared to the small Gnoll. Mrsha didn’t mind; she leapt and snagged a bit of Beza’s hamburger, winning the Minotauress’ instant respect for her audacity. The Gnoll was insatiably curious—about the copper floating orb and Montressa’s staff—and Ulinde’s two wands.

“Whoops! Don’t take those! You could hurt yourself!”

The Selphid batted away Mrsha. The Gnoll looked disappointed. She was sniffing around them, wagging her tail. Lyonette hurried over.

“I’m so sorry. Is Mrsha bothering you? Mrsha! Are you begging scraps, young miss? That is no way for a lady to behave—”

“It’s fine, we like it! Can she not talk?”

Laughing, Montressa and the others assured Lyonette. Even Isceil waved a begrudging hand. Mrsha was signing something with her paws and pointing to Lyonette. Embarrassed, the [Princess] bent, watched carefully, and looked up. The [Mages], curious to a fault, watched.

“Mrsha can’t speak. But she can communicate with her paws. She’s asking—I apologize for her again, she’s not getting a full dinner tonight! She’s asking why you have two wands, Miss Ulinde?”

The Selphid’s eyes brightened. Or something in them brightened. She smiled at Mrsha.

“That’s because I’m a [Spellslinger]. See these wands? I can cast two spells at once! Pew, pew, pew! I can show you—”

“Not in the inn, Ulinde.”

Montressa tugged her friend down. She smiled at Mrsha and explained to both.

“Ulinde’s a [Spellslinger]. Isceil’s an [Oldblood Magus]—he uses the power of his bloodline. Beza’s our [Spellscribe]—completely different, she writes down magic on a scroll and uses it from there. Palt’s our [Illusionist]—he’s still busy—and I’m a [Aegiscaster]. That means I’m specialized in barrier spells.”

“Wow.”

Lyonette’s eyes widened. Mrsha was looking up with awe at the group. Isceil’s chest inflated and he smoothed his spines.

“Well, we are Wistram’s [Mages].”

“That’s so many specialized classes. You know, we have two graduates from Wistram here as well. They’re not back yet, but I’ll introduce them, shall I? And Mrsha loves magic. She…”

Lyonette looked at Mrsha and paused. The Wistram [Mages] all glanced at each other fast. Montressa’s face had clouded again. Beza broke into the silence with a smile.

“We’d love to meet them. We don’t know everyone, but when they arrive, send them over, by all means!”

She nodded at the others and mouthed a word as Lyonette smiled. Palt. Definitely Palt. He knew all kinds of spells. Distraction—even memory-altering ones. Montressa nodded back tightly.

Lyonette hadn’t noticed. She was wincing as Erin shouted from the kitchen.

“I need a taste tester! My tongue hurts! Do we have any yogurt?”

“I have to go. Sorry again about Mrsha—do you want anything else? Erin’s still working on the curry—Mrsha, come on!”

“I’m good for the moment. Some more drinks and I’ll be ready to eat.”

Isceil patted his stomach. Montressa nodded. Mrsha was reluctant to go. She dragged at the floor as Lyonette tried to lift her.

“You can leave Mrsha. She’s cute! Hello, little one.”

Montressa waved at Mrsha. The Gnoll smiled and sniffed again.

“And she’s not afraid of Selphids!”

Ulinde was delighted. Lyonette hesitated, but Erin was screaming about a burned tongue so she hurried off after a stern reminder that Mrsha was eating her dinner. The Gnoll let Beza, Montressa, and Ulinde pamper her. Isceil just looked disgusted. He folded his arms.

“Females. I should have gone with Palt.”

“Want me to switch to a male body, Isceil?”

Ulinde laughed at Isceil. Like many Selphids, she changed gender by her body. Isceil looked disgusted.

“That rotting corpse? You need to find another one.”

“I’m running out! Do you know how hard it is to find good bodies anywhere that’s not Baleros?”

“Don’t tell me.”

Mrsha bit at a fry Beza tentatively held out to her. She was circling around Montressa and surreptitiously eying the food. Her nose twitched and she sneezed as Isceil flicked some pepper over the edge of the table. She fled.

“You ass!”

Beza punched Isceil on the shoulder. She watched, heartbroken, as Mrsha scurried over to Lyonette, whining a complaint. The [Princess] bent, frowning.

“What’s that? What? Hm…wait—”

She glanced up at their table. Isceil hunched his shoulders as Ulinde and Montressa glared at him.

“It’s just pepper!”

“You don’t throw that at a child! Much less a Gnoll! If she comes over, apologize!”

“Ancestors damn it, quit being so sensitive! She’s fine, see?”

Isceil’s voice was distinctly relieved as Lyonette smiled and patted Mrsha’s head.

“Oh, fine. Tell Erin. Ishkr! Where are you? Did Drassi already leave to go look for…? Well, you’ll have to do. No—no arguments! Listen—”

Beza sighed as she watched Mrsha and Lyonette hurry off. She was feeling at her scroll pouch.

“I still need to scribe two more scrolls.”

“Do it later. You have multiple copies, don’t you?”

“Yes. But it’s the principle of the thing. I can’t cast magic without a scroll. You know my natural magic pool is too low for regular spellcasting.”

Her friends looked up. That was a touchy subject for Beza usually. She hadn’t been blessed with the natural talents her peers had, so she’d developed this class. By infusing a scroll with mana and laboriously writing the spell on it, she could activate a spell fast as—if not faster than other [Mages], but in return she had to provide effort and money to cast a single spell. Ulinde looked sympathetic.

“How much does it cost for proper blank scrolls?”

“Too much. Let alone liquid gemstone for writing or magicore?”

Beza grimaced. She turned hopefully as Mrsha came trotting out of the kitchen. Lyonette hurried over. She called out as they passed the mages’ table.

“Mrsha, come on! We’re going shopping! Erin’s out of—ground beef! Let’s go to the [Butchers] and I’ll buy you a snack!”

The Gnoll brightened up. Montressa glanced at Beza as she watched Lyonette adjust the door. Ishkr went after them—he set the door to yellow—a location they hadn’t seen before. Montressa raised her eyebrows—the label read ‘Pallass’. Then she looked at Beza.

“But don’t you earn a lot for scrolls, Beza? And you can make more! That’s your entire class!”

“There’s still the time cost, the cost of materials, finding the right buyers—especially if the market is oversaturated! People don’t use spell scrolls every day! I might be rich, but it’s work!”

Beza pounded the table, frustrated. Ulinde and Isceil didn’t look sympathetic.

“At least you can sell your spells. Ulinde and I are combat classes. And we’re not adventurers. Yet. My funding is a lot less than…”

“You think you’ll become an adventurer, Isceil?”

“For a bit? To earn some artifacts and gold? Gold-ranks do earn an enticing amount and I could see myself taking a sabbatical for a few years.”

The Drake looked thoughtful as he stroked his chin. Beza laughed.

“You? Gold-rank?”

“Why not? I’m not Silver. The only thing stopping me is having to put up with a bunch of idiots the entire time…”

“Well, we could be an adventuring team.”

Ulinde looked at the others as Montressa raised her brows.

“Why not? It would be fun! Tell you what, on the way back north, I’ll pop into the Adventurer’s Guilds. If I see something that looks fun or profitable—we take it!”

“It could be good training.”

Beza mused. Montressa shrugged.

“We’ll talk about it. Dead gods, is Palt not here yet?”

Half an hour—no, forty minutes had passed. Isceil waved a lazy claw.

“He’s probably just explaining everything. He’ll have to go through the ranks first—after finding the Watch Barracks—he’ll have stopped for a smoke—”

“Well, he’d better not wait too long or I’m not saving him any of this curry. Where is it?”

Erin had been out twenty minutes ago saying it was nearly done and that she was just waiting on the rice. Since then, the inn had grown more quiet. Beza glanced around—and then Ulinde grabbed her. Hard.

“Oh dead gods. Beza!”

“Ulinde, calm down. I’m trying to watch this ‘play’.”

Montressa complained as she stared at the stage. Beza growled agreement, but Ulinde’s eyes were wide. She was pointing past them, at a duo who’d just entered the inn.

“But Beza! That’s Seborn and Moore! Two of the Halfseekers! That must mean Jelaqua Ivirith is somewhere around here!”

All the [Mages] glanced around. Sure enough, a half-Giant and Drowned Man were walking into the inn. They glanced around impassively, then sat at a table close to the Wistram [Mage]’s. Ulinde started trembling.

“I—I have to talk to them. Come with me?”

She looked at her friends. Isceil was patting his stomach, trying to figure out how much more he could eat. Montressa and Beza were watching the [Actors]. They’d begun Macbeth, but a new cast was on stage. The lead, a [General] played by a Drake, was contemplating treason…

“Go yourself Ulinde, I want to watch this.”

“I can’t! I’ll freeze up! Please? Isceil!”

The Drake snorted. He was watching the play now, and glancing towards the kitchen.

“Go yourself, Ulinde. You’re a Wistram [Mage]! That half-Giant’s not even as good as you are. See his magical flow? They should be coming to you! Where’s the curry, already?”

Beza glanced up. She’d been saving room too and the alcohol was making her peckish. She looked around and to her surprise, realized the dinner rush had in fact been a vacuum.

The inn was surprisingly uncrowded. A pair of Gnolls got up and walked towards the door as the [Mages] glanced around.

“Still delayed. Erin’s in the kitchen, still.”

“Maybe dinner’s later around here.”

“Or the inn isn’t all it’s cracked up to be. I knew she wasn’t as successful as everyone said. Not for a guest. Late curry—”

“You just ate two meal’s worth. Give Erin time. I bet she has to simmer the curry or something. Now, shush. This is amazing.”

Montressa shook her head. She stared back towards the stage. The Drake there was giving the performance of his life. He held a claw out, staring at a spectral illusion one of the [Mages] behind stage was conjuring. Montressa knew it was an illusion, but the performance still had her watching, spellbound.

“Is this a dagger I see before me, the handle towards my claw? Come, let me touch thee. I have thee not, yet I see thee still. Art thou an illusion of magic sensible to feeling as to sight? Or art thou but a dagger of the mind, a false creation proceeding from heat-oppressed brain? I see thee are not magic but for—”

“He’s quite good. This is a fascinating performance! As good as any [Bards] or [Performers] I’ve ever seen!”

The [Aegiscaster] whispered to Beza. The Minotauress nodded silently. Isceil had to grudgingly agree as Ulinde got up, sat down, and got up again.

“Drake’s as ugly as sin, though.”

“Really? I can’t tell.”

“Take it from me. No wonder he’s betraying his [King]; no one’s going to make him an [Heir].”

Isceil pointed at the Drake’s face and tail. Montressa and Beza couldn’t see it. The Minotauress eyed the Drake appreciatively.

“At least he looks the part. I mean, in body shape. That’s a proper [General]’s build.”

She nodded to his bulging forearms. The Drake was indeed built far better than any other [Actor] on stage. The Wistram [Mages] watched, spellbound, until a growl made Beza look around.

“Excuse me? Excuse me!”

She signaled to Drassi, who’d returned to the inn. The Drake jumped and then came over with a big smile.

“Y-yes? Can I help you?”

“We’re still waiting on the ‘ca-ree’. Is Miss Erin still working on it?”

“What? I’ll ask.”

The Drake blinked. She hurried into the kitchen.

“Curry. Sorry, it’s new and we’re making up a fresh batch. Extra spicy. It should be out in just a moment!”

“We can wait.”

Beza nodded at Isceil. He sighed, loudly, but then Erin poked her head out of the kitchen. She waved at the Wistram [Mages] and they waved back.

“It must be nearly ready. I bet it’ll be too spicy, Isceil.”

“Hah! I’ll eat the entire plate as she serves it, without a drink or anything else. How much?”

“Two small secrets?”

“Done.”

The [Mages] nodded at each other. Erin was talking to Drassi. She was glancing towards the magical door. The Gnoll, Ishkr, was standing by it waved at her and shook his head, holding up four of his paws. After a moment, Erin hurried into the kitchen. The Wistram Mages went back to watching…until they realized ten minutes had come and gone.

“Come on, what’s the hold up? Everyone else is eating.”

Isceil’s tail was lashing the ground. Montressa sighed.

“I think she messed it up.”

“You think? What’s so hard about it? I’m going to complain!”

“You idiot, Isceil! She’s our guest!”

“I’m still hungry!”

He snapped back. Montressa sighed.

“Maybe we should get Palt first. He’ll be mad we started without him and maybe the Watch Captain needs more soothing. How about this? Isceil, you get Palt. Beza, you and Ulinde say hi to the Halfseekers—”

“Oh, yesyesyes, thank you!”

Ulinde jumped up, quivering with nerves. Montressa nodded as she reached for her staff.

“And I’ll ask Erin what’s wrong with the curry. We can always have the rest of her food. And I think she mentioned ice cream? That’s a Terandrian delicacy!”

Her friends nodded. Isceil was only grumbling a tiny bit as he got up and began navigating towards the door. But before they reached the door, Erin Solstice hurried out of the kitchen.

“Alright! Alright, sorry for the wait!”

She had a steaming pot full of curry, and Drassi was carrying one filled with rice. The Drake put the pot on the table and looked at Erin.

“Anything else, Erin?”

“Nope. Go find Lyonette, Drassi. Tell her I’m starting dinner!”

Erin smiled at Drassi, and then she looked at the Wistram [Mages]. Isceil hurried back to the table, Palt forgotten. Montressa looked into the pot; she could smell the spices from here.

“Whoo! Hot! I can still see it bubbling! Miss Erin, give me a full plate. A good helping; it’s spicy, I take it?”

Isceil was impatient. Erin smiled at him, putting down rice first and then a big helping of curry on top. The Drake licked his lips, seeing meat among the thick sauce.

“Super spicy!”

“Can we cool it down? I’m not looking to breathe fire.”

Beza looked warily at the hot curry. Erin smiled.

“Sure! Just one thing before we start.”

She set down the pot before Isceil could dig into his plate. Montressa nearly objected; they hadn’t been served, but Erin was looking at her. She glanced around, but all she saw were a few [Actors] on stage, the two Halfseekers—barely anyone else. The Hobgoblin was lounging against the bar, tuning a guitar, but he was alone. The inn was—

“What is it, Miss Solstice?”

Isceil was practically panting with anticipation. He loved spices. Erin looked at him and then smiled.

“I was just thinking. I have some people from Wistram in my inn. I didn’t tell you because one of them’s a jerk and both of them have a past with the academy.”

“Oh.”

Montressa’s face froze. Beza carefully watched her friend, and then put a false smile on her face as she turned to Erin.

“Don’t worry, Miss Solstice, we’re completely fine with any…incidents that might have occurred between your friends. What are their names?”

“Oh, Todam and Shelia. One’s a Human, the other one’s a half-Elf.”

“Todam and—”

All the Wistram [Mages] looked surprised. Montressa’s eyes flicked up and Beza had the same thought. Aliases, of course. She shook her head, smiling.

“Never heard of them, but I’m sure we’d love to meet them.”

“Sounds great!”

Erin beamed. She moved back as Isceil dug a fork into his plate, too hungry to wait. She reached for the pot and then paused.

“Say, do you know someone named Ceria? Or Pisces, or Yvlon or Ksmvr?”

Beza blinked. She’d relaxed. Too soon, as it turned out, and the moment of surprise ran around the table. Erin watched them. Her bright, happy smile stopped on her face.

And then it vanished. She looked down at them.

“Thought so. Mrsha says you smell like their blood. What did you do with them?”

“I—”

The [Mages] froze. They looked at Montressa, and she stared at Erin. She took too long to answer. Isceil sneered.

“They got what they deserved. You didn’t know this, but one of them was a [Necromancer]—”

He got no further. Erin grabbed him by the head. She slammed his face into the plate full of curry.

The Drake screamed. He dragged himself back, clawing at his eyes. The curry was hot, physically and in taste. It burned his eyes. Calmly, Erin stepped back. She grabbed the pot and dumped it over him.

“Dead gods!”

Beza pushed herself back. She stood—and Erin hit her with the pot as hard as she could. The Minotaur sat back down.

“What are you doing!?”

“My eyes! That Human bitch—”

Montressa grabbed her staff as Ulinde went for her wands. Beza roared with fury as she stood. She got no further than that.

From the bar, the Hobgoblin abandoned his guitar. He launched himself across the inn. Numbtongue leapt over the table and kicked Beza out of her chair as she rose. The Minotaur crashed to the ground and Numbtongue followed, kicking, punching at her as she tried to rise.

The other three [Mages] shot to their feet. Isceil, howling, pointed a wand at Erin, barely able to see. He roared.

“[Lightning Orb]!”

The inn was almost empty. The guests had already left, as had most of the staff. At the back of the room, the [Actors] fled backstage. But the Drake seized a spear that had been lying among the props and leapt to the floor, bellowing.

“Erin! Get back!”

She dodged the spell as a crackling orb of lightning shot past her shoulder. Relc slashed at it and cut the orb in half as he charged.

“Senior Guardsman! Put down your weapons or I’ll put you through that table!”

Montressa pivoted. She called out desperately; Erin was watching Isceil as he tried to aim at her.

“Miss Solstice, we don’t want to fight! We had to apprehend—”

Montressa saw Erin swing at Isceil’s face. The Drake raised an arm to block, snarling. She hit him in the stomach with her other hand.

“Where are they?”

“The Horns are alive! Put down your weapons, now, or we’ll be forced to hurt you!”

Ulinde called out. She looked at the Halfseekers, and then at Relc. He was charging across the inn’s floor, knocking tables and chairs aside. She turned, aiming both wands at him.

“[Binding—]”

Seborn appeared at her back. Ulinde half-turned, but the [Rogue] was faster. He appeared out of the shadow and grabbed the Selphid, yanking them backwards. His blade glowed like fire. With one arm he choked Ulinde, keeping her steady. The other stabbed the dagger through her chest.

“Ulinde!”

Seborn’s dagger plunged in and out of the Selphid’s chest, so fast that his hand was a blur. When he let her go, her chest was perforated, seared by the flaming enchantment. Montressa turned white. Ulinde swayed, and one arm came up.

“—Burst].”

The explosion hurled Erin and Seborn backwards. She stumbled back and Relc caught her, pulling her away. Seborn flipped backwards, landing next to the half-Giant. Seborn cursed.

“Damn, I missed the real body. Moore!”

“I’m up. Jelaqua isn’t here. The plan?”

“Take the Human!”

“Get back, Erin!”

Relc yanked Erin backwards. Montressa raised her staff, seeing Beza swinging at Numbtongue. This was happening too fast! How had she known? Mrsha?

Isceil wiped curry out of his eyes. He roared as he inhaled.

“Everyone duck! I’m breathing!”

Fire and lightning shot from his maw. The [Oldblood Mage] turned, sweeping his magical breath across the room. The flames and lightning bounced off Montressa’s barrier as the other [Mages] leapt out of the way. Erin shouted as Relc pulled her back, shielding her as he slashed with his spear, cutting the magical fire and lighting.

The Halfseekers dove. Moore groaned and Seborn swore; a bolt of the electricity had hit his side.

“I’m hit! Moore—”

He was already moving. The Wistram [Mages] turned. No more time for words. Beza swung at Numbtongue and he lashed out, striking her across the chest. Seborn lunged at Ulinde and she jumped backwards, firing her spells.

“I’ve got the Drake!”

Relc roared as he leapt sideways, abandoning Erin behind cover. He dodged as Isceil’s spells came after him. Seborn slashed at Ulinde; the Selphid was babbling despite her destroyed chest.

“Oh, no, no, please! I’m a huge fan, we can explain—”

She fired from both wands and Seborn twisted, vanishing with a curse among the shadows. Ulinde sprayed spells, trying to keep him at bay. He lunged in—sliced through a quarter of her throat. It would have killed anyone but a Selphid.

Four versus four—Moore looked down at Montressa.

“Surrender. And tell us what you did with the Horns of Hammerad.”

Montressa du Valeross looked up. Her surprise turned to fury. She raised her staff, the enchanted jewel glowing, contrasting to the plain wooden quarterstaff Moore held.

“Surrender?”

The half-Giant sighed. He pointed his staff at Montressa.

“[Stone Spray—”

The spell failed to appear. The half-Giant tried again. Montressa raised her staff and struck the ground.

“[Mana Disruption].”

Moore’s spells failed. He stared at her. Then he swung his staff. It came at Montressa from the side, slower as the half-Giant pulled his blow. Montressa didn’t move.

The quarterstaff hit the air and the air moved, rippling with the impact. Moore stared as the glimmering barrier around Montressa appeared, violet, translucent light. Montressa pointed her staff and Moore raised one hand.

“[Incendiary Darts]!”

The fiery needles struck the half-Giant. He howled. This time he brought down the staff with all his might. The wood struck the barrier and Montressa saw the magic ripple.

The staff broke. Montressa looked at Moore. He blinked and she pointed her staff.

“[Reduced Lightning Bolt]”

The copper orb hovering around her staff discharged. Moore screamed and Seborn heard. He and Ulinde were dodging around the inn. The Selphid could push her body to move faster than all but Seborn, but she couldn’t lose him. She desperately tried to fire spells from both wands, but the [Rogue] was a shadow, leaping, dodging—

Cutting her. He had cut Ulinde across the face, arms legs—deep blows some severing bones. But nothing to kill a Selphid. Montressa pointed at him.

“[Force Wall].”

The leaping shadow hit the shimmering barrier that appeared and Seborn stumbled back. Ulinde took that moment and pointed both wands.

“[Aerial Burst]!”

It caught him, but the [Rogue] was already tumbling, flipping sideways with the force of the blast. He began to leap backwards, but Ulinde leapt.

Anyone but a Selphid [Mage] would have been too slow. But Ulinde was Rampaging. The Selphid’s body moved as fast as Seborn, and her second dueling wand touched his chest.

“[Reduced Fireball]!”

Like Montressa’s spell, the fireball wasn’t as powerful as it could have been. But it still burst with a fiery bloom. Seborn went flying. His armor had soaked up most of the smaller explosion, but he was still thrown across the room. Ulinde pounced on him as he struggled to his feet. She pointed both wands at him.

“[Binding Ropes]!”

The magical ropes encircled Seborn. He kept moving, trying to break free. Ulinde shouted at him. He was cursing as the magical ropes tightened around his arms and legs.

“Just stop moving! I’ll have to hurt you otherwise—”

Across the room, Relc dove and Isceil’s breath blasted three tables and the chairs apart. The Drake was spitting lightning and frost now! Relc bellowed as he turned.

“Senior Guardsman! Surrender and lie on the ground with your hands over your head or I’ll—”

Isceil shot a ray of fire at Relc’s chest. The Drake spun his spear and cut the ray with the tip of his spear. It dissipated. Relc’s eyes narrowed. He turned and saw Seborn and Moore, down. His eyes widened as he spotted the half-Giant’s smoking chest. He whirled.

“Fine.”

Isceil was panting for breath. He raised his wand as Relc charged.

“[Stone Arm—”

The Gecko of Liscor slashed once. The thick stone appearing over Isceil’s scales vanished. The Drake stopped. He stared down at the spear and the spreading red slash across his stomach. Relc had pulled the blow, but it had still opened Isceil’s scales.

“Oh.”

He tried to raise his wand. Relc’s fist hit him in the face. The bigger Drake drew his head back as Isceil staggered, and then head-butted the [Mage]. Something in Isceil’s face went crack.

Relc waited as the Drake screamed. Isceil was still trying to raise his wand. Relc shrugged, swung fist with all of his weight behind it. The blow lifted Isceil as it hit him right across his cut stomach. The Drake turned white under his scales and passed out. Relc kicked him in the groin and turned.

“Anti-magic spear! He got Isceil!”

Ulinde screamed a warning. Montressa had already seen. The [Mage] raised her staff, retreating as she reinforced her barrier. Relc narrowed his eyes. He glanced at Moore and Seborn.

“You two suck.”

“[Flame Ray]! [Ice Spike]!”

Ulinde took advantage of the moment of distraction. Her spells shot at Relc. He leaned out of the way of the flaming beam and slashed. The [Ice Spike] didn’t even shatter; it just vanished as he cut it in half. Montressa gulped.

“We’re [Mages] of Wi—”

Relc kicked a chair at her face. It shattered against the barrier and she flinched. Relc leapt and his spear jabbed at her stomach. It slashed through the first ward and he cursed as it sank into the second.

“[Flame Swathe]!”

“[Ropes of Binding]!”

The Drake jumped backwards as flames roared from Montressa’s staff. He slashed down the four ropes Ulinde shot at him. She leapt to one side and he blurred and kicked her in midair.

“Whoop, nope.”

Something crunched around her pelvis. Ulinde made a sound and went crashing backwards, but then she was on her feet. Relc groaned.

“Damn. Selphids.”

He turned, raised his spear too late. The [Lightning Bolt] struck him and hurled him over the back of a table. Montressa lowered her staff. She saw the figure curse, leap to his feet, and roar.

“That hurt.”

“Spell resistance?”

Montressa turned pale. The [Guardsman] charged her and she shot another bolt of lightning from her staff. This time, somehow, he blocked the bolt of lightning! Relc ducked behind a table, then leapt, slashing a spell aimed at him as he maneuvered around Ulinde. Montressa backed up, desperately conjuring more protections.

“[Wall of Light]. [Steelcage]. Ulinde, back off! He’s too fast! Beza, get over here!”

The Minotauress was dueling Numbtongue next to the kitchens. She and Numbtongue swung; she had size and weight on him, but he was pressing her back! She stared as he caught a fist and kicked her in the kneecap. She felt something crunch.

“How—”

The Hobgoblin hit her again, through her raised hands. Montressa’s head snapped back. She roared and grabbed two scrolls on her belt.

“[Steel Body]. [Haste]!”

The enchantments took hold as Numbtongue backed up. Beza charged him, head down. He pirouetted, letting her move past him. His eyes unfocused. Beza turned. She swung at him, her every moment enhanced. And he—

Dodged. The Hobgoblin leaned to one side as her fist passed by his ear. He stepped in and punched her in the stomach. Beza barely felt it. She kicked at him, enraged. He lifted his arm, catching her leg and heaving up.

Down she went. Beza hit the ground, surprised more than stunned, and then tried to get up. She met Numbtongue’s foot as the Hobgoblin kicked her as hard as he could. Beza’s head snapped back and she howled.

The Hobgoblin rubbed at one foot.

“Huh.”

Beza got to her feet and lunged. The Hobgoblin made a whuffing sound and swung. Beza’s head snapped back and she went crashing backwards.

[Power Strike]. The Hobgoblin watched her get up and walked around the bar. He came back with two bottles. He smashed one across Beza’s face, the burning liquid searing his eyes. He tried the other one and smacked his lips.

Pyrite.

Erin watched from the side, ducking back from the spells Relc was dodging. She pointed at Beza.

“I’ve got her, NumbPyrite! Get her!”

Beza roared. Her eyes were red with fury, but she felt a huge pressure weigh down on her as Pyrite in Numbtongue’s body smashed the second bottle across her face. His claw jabbed towards an eye and she recoiled. She felt sluggish! But she was [Hasted]! How—

Erin pointed at her, concentrating. Beza roared as she came at Erin. Pyrite tripped her. This time he leapt on her back and tried to twist her arm up, but Beza’s [Steel Body] made even that difficult. Annoyed, the Hobgoblin looked around. Beza swung at him as he danced a back. He avoided her every swing as she came at him, keeping her just out of range, just out of range—

Then he flipped up the fallen pot Erin had used for curry and slammed it over Beza’s head. The horns pierced the bottom, and the pot stuck. Beza screamed, but Pyrite was hesitating. He grabbed a chair, smashed it across Beza’s head as she struggled to remove the pot—kicked her in the stomach—and then sighed. He looked at Erin.

“Can’t stop without killing. Acid?”

Beza tore the pot free. She looked down at Pyrite and charged. He jumped out of the way. He punched Beza in the back of the head, tackled her, sending her skidding across the slippery floor—

And his time ran out. One minute. Pyrite cursed—and Numbtongue stumbled. Beza swung and caught him across the ribs. The Hobgoblin stumbled back. Beza turned to Erin and lifted a scroll. The [Innkeeper] froze; her concentration wavered.

“Uh oh—”

“[Arrows of Light]!”

Erin dove as the arrows shredded the table she’d been hiding behind. Beza whirled. Numbtongue rose, looking for his guitar. It was at the bar. He squared himself, narrowing his eyes as he raised his fists. Beza roared, moving impossibly fast—

You? Do you need help?

The Hobgoblin’s head turned. Who had—

Numbtongue went crashing backwards as Beza struck him too quickly for Erin to see. The Hobgoblin struggled to get up—and met a second fist to the chest. He collapsed, and Beza reached for him, strangling him.

Erin screamed.

“Numbtongue!”

She stabbed Beza. The Minotaur felt the searing pain in her side and looked down. Her enchanted body had been pierced! The kitchen knife stuck out of her side, two inches in. She looked up, and her eyes were crimson. Like a Goblin’s eyes. Erin backed up as the Minotaur tore the knife free. The [Innkeeper] raised her fists.

“[Minotaur Punch]! [Minotaur Punch]!”

The first punch hit Beza in the ribs. The second in the stomach. The Minotauress let her have both hits. She stared down at Erin and spat. Saliva and rum from the bottle Pyrite had hit her with. She shook her head.

“That hurts a bit. But it’s just an imitation. Who taught you that?”

“I learned it from a real Minotaur.”

Erin saw Beza’s eyes narrow. She saw the punch and ducked—but too slow. Beza struck Erin across the face and Erin stumbled. Her mouth was bloody. She got back up. Aura? Could she do something other than weigh Beza down? Where was—

The Minotaur grabbed her head with one huge hand. Erin punched at her, but Beza was unmovable.

“[Numbing Touch].”

Erin sagged. She made a sound as Beza let go.

“Huh—”

She hit the ground, a sack of bones and flesh, unable to move. Beza turned. She hesitated, looking at the unconscious Numbtongue, and then saw Relc stabbing Ulinde. His spear went right through her stomach, but she kept moving, twisting off it and shooting spells.

“Why the hell won’t you stop moving?”

“Drake!”

Beza roared and Relc turned. He blocked another spell from Montressa and shouted.

“You suck too, Numbtongue!”

He whirled his spear and Beza hesitated. She eyed the spear and raised her fists, gesturing.

“Come on, Drake. Drop your spear and let’s see how good you are!”

Relc stared at her.

“That’s the dumbest thing I’ve ever heard. I’m holding back.”

He spun, pointing the spear at Montressa. She paused. Relc looked around. Ulinde, Beza, Montressa, and he was surrounded. Worse, Isceil was groaning and everyone was unconscious or ensorcelled. Relc sighed.

“Put down your weapons. Or I’ll start killing you instead of holding back.”

The Wistram [Mages] stared at him. Ulinde’s mouth moved incredulously. Beza lost her temper. She roared at Relc, spittle flying.

“Surrender? You have no idea who you’re fighting! I’m the best at hand-to-hand combat in all of Wistram! I’m—”

A presence behind her. The [Spellscribe] whirled. A huge Drake stared up at her. He was a bit shorter, but only big. And he was even more muscular than she was. He shook his head as Erin got up groggily, helped by a pale Raskghar, trembling with fury—

“Wistram’s standards must be even lower than I remember. Grimalkin. Strongest [Mage] in Pallass.”

“Grimalk—”

Beza jerked backwards. The Drake swung. She saw a huge, scaly fist and threw up her guard—



—-



“I’m so glad to have your assistance, Watch Captain. If you’ll follow me?”

Palt trotted from Zevara’s office. She smiled.

“Certainly, Wistram’s representative!”

She followed him down the steps. She had something in her hand. A whistle, made of tin. Palt didn’t notice her as he trotted down the steps, using the handrails for guidance. Zevara put the whistle in her lips and blew it. It made no sound.

“I hope Miss Selys wasn’t too—upset. I trust we can amicably explain the situation. As I said, Wistram is willing to make a very generous donation—and recompense her for her trauma, of course!”

Palt murmured over his shoulder as he slowly reached the bottom of the steps. Zevara gave him a bright smile.

“Let’s go see, shall we?”

The Centaur trotted past the empty receptionist’s desk. He looked around the barracks, straightened his vest—

“Get him!”

The Watch hit him as he entered the barracks. Gnolls and Drakes yanked him off his hooves. Beilmark smashed a club across Palt’s face as he fell.

The Centaur didn’t even have time to utter a spell. The Gnolls and Drakes hit him with batons and clubs from both sides. He screamed once before they brought him down. Zevara shouted as the [Guards] made sure the [Mage] was unconscious.

“Enough!”

They stopped kicking him. Senior Guardswoman Beilmark growled, her fur standing on end.

“What was it, Watch Captain? He said he was a [Mage] from Wistram—”

“Maybe he was. He cast an enchantment on me. And he attacked—”

“He attacked Pisces!”

Selys pushed her way forwards. She was shouting and crying. Zevara turned to her.

“There were five of them! They—they said they were from Wistram. He wasn’t moving when—they put him in a box! And then they got the others! Ceria, Ksmvr, Yvlon—I saw it all! I was under a spell!”

“Guards!”

Zevara had heard enough. She bellowed and Liscor’s Watch looked at her. The Watch Captain turned. Palt’s spell had gone and all that was left was the kind of fury that was so overwhelming it was calm. Zevara turned.

“There are four [Mages] in the city that assaulted Miss Selys Shivertail and took a Silver-rank team hostage! I want the rest of them found now and arrested! Get an anti-mage team, Beilmark! Find Relc, Klbkch—get Jeiss and the other Senior Guards too! There’s no telling what levels they are, but they’re not leaving the city! I want this done quietly, without them getting a chance to loose any more spells—”

“Kill or take alive, Watch Captain?”

Beilmark growled. A Gnoll was growling as the [Guards] grabbed weapons. Another went for a bell.

“Alive unless they threaten you, Senior Guardsman. Belay that bell, guardsman! No alarms! Spread out! I want eyes on the walls—”

A thought hit Zevara. No, a certainty. She strode out of the Watch House. Selys and the Watch followed her. Zevara looked towards the east and cursed.

“Get that squad together, Beilmark. You five! Get to the eastern wall! Run! Check to see if there’s any activity around the inn!”

She ran. Selys stopped only to kick Palt in the face before she was hot on Zevara’s tail.



—-



Beza the Minotauress was lying down. She realized it only when it turned out the wall was floorboards. She blinked.

“Huh? Why am I on the floor?”

That was what she tried to say. But it didn’t come out. Grimalkin squatted down and rolled her over. Beza stared up at him. He inspected her jaw and shrugged.

“Concussion. I didn’t break the jaw. I’m getting better at not doing that. Then again, Minotaur’s jaws are tough. Miss Solstice? [Dispel Magic].”

“Whuh—”

Erin jerked as the numbness left her. She stood, turning.

“Numbtongue!”

“Not hurt. Cracked bones. I’ll see to him. Are there any more?”

Grimalkin nodded at Beza. She was still staring at the ceiling, trying to say something. Erin looked around.

“There’s one in the city—they were going to leave—Seborn! Moore!”

“Alive. The half-Giant’s wounded.”

Grimalkin looked around the inn. His tone was conversational. Montressa was screaming something at Relc as he sliced closer. He was so casual. Erin tried to grab at him, but her arms were still hard to move.

“They were gonna—”

“I heard. You’re lucky I was coming to tutor Miss Springwalker. I got the message from your Gnoll at the same time as Miss Ivirith.”

“Miss—”

Ulinde was firing spells, at Relc, screaming as she aimed two at Grimalkin. He blocked them with one claw. She whirled as something moved. A huge, Gnoll-like beast was bent over Moore. It raised its head. Ulinde froze.

No Gnoll looked like that. But what was it? Then she saw the dead eyes. And she knew.

Jelaqua leapt. She caught Ulinde, ignoring the spells that burned holes into her Raskghar body. She snarled. Ulinde screamed.

“I—I’m—I can explain! I’m—I’m a huge fan, Miss Ivirith. B-but—”

“Shut up.”

The Selphid [Mage] did. She stared at Jelaqua, trembling. The Raskghar’s mouth opened.

“Hey. You know what’s going to happen next?”

“Wh—”

“Pain.”

The two crashed across the inn. Montressa, spinning, screamed as she saw her friend.

“Ulinde!”

Jelaqua was ramming the younger Selphid’s head into a wall. Two blows and the skull caved in. But there was no brain. The broken face jerked backwards, trying to utter a spell around a shattered jaw. Jelaqua grabbed Ulinde by a leg and swung her into the wall.

Bones broke. The Selphid [Mage] made a sound like a bag of dirt hitting the ground. Again. And again—

A spear at Montressa’s chest. Relc cursed and backed up. Montressa uttered a spell and he cut it as the scythe swung at his chest.

“How many barriers do you have?”

“Stop! We are [Mages] from Wistram! We’re—”

Montressa looked around. Ulinde’s head was gone. She was lying on the ground. Her chest had been torn open and something orange was oozing into her. Another Selphid. Ulinde was screaming with her real body.

The [Aegiscaster] looked around. She saw Beza, struggling to sit up, throwing up. Isceil, bloody, down. And then Grimalkin. He stood up as Erin poured a healing potion on Numbtongue’s jaw.

“You. [Barrier Mage]. Drop the staff.”

Montressa looked around. Then she ran. Relc exclaimed as she fled out the doors. He looked at Erin.

“You alright?”

“Fine!”

The former [Sergeant] spotted her bloody mouth and his eyes narrowed. He nodded at the [Sinew Magus] as Grimalkin strode towards the door.

“Hey, Grimalkin.”

“Relc. What is this, a Wistram thief team? Did they try to steal the door?”

“Apparently they got the Horns. There’s blood. No sign of the Horns; Lyonette got me. She was trying to find Klb and more Gold-ranks, but they must’ve been away. I had a heck of a time not killing them. Watch the Human. She’s the best. Lightning spells from that orb-thing. The Drake was Oldblood with two breath attacks.”

Grimalkin nodded. The two walked outside. Montressa was fleeing down the hill. She’d gotten far, but she wasn’t fit. She was gasping as she tried to summit the second slope, running to Liscor.

“Hey! Stop or we’ll break your legs!”

Relc bellowed after Montressa. She whirled with a scream.

“Stay away!”

Magical arrows shot from her staff and lightning flashed at the inn. Relc spun his spear, but Grimalkin raised a claw, preempting Montressa’s spells.

“[Barrier of Wind].”

The lightning struck the barrier and it exploded. The [Sinew] Magus swatted away an arrow that was flying at his mouth; the rest he ignored. Relc punched one and growled.

“I really want to hit her.”

He leapt down the hill, rushing at Montressa. She went pale and planted her staff in the ground. This time the ruby gemstone flashed illuminating the dark landscape.

“[Five-Fold Arcane Barrier]. [Chain Lightning]!”

Relc’s eyes widened. He dodged, slicing, but this time he was too slow. The layered ward sprang around Montressa at the same time as the orb unleashed something like true lightning. It hit Relc—no, his spear had caught it—Grimalkin saw Relc blur backwards, and then leap backwards. Grimalkin surged down the hill and met him. Relc appeared, clutching at his arm. There was a crater marring his scales. He swore a blue streak.

“I got tagged. I hate Tier 4 spells! What the hell’s that?”

He pointed. Grimalkin eyed the magical wards surrounding Montressa. Grudgingly, Grimalkin uncrossed his arms.

“That’s a Tier 4 spell—layered. I could hit that pretty hard.”

“Stay back!”

Montressa screamed at the two Drakes, her face pale with exhaustion. She was fumbling for a mana potion and dropped it. Relc laughed, and then grimaced, clutching at a smoking black spot on one arm.

“Amateur! She didn’t even have that in her belt! Ow!”

“How’s your arm?”

Grimalkin looked at Relc. The [Guardsman] growled.

“I got most of it with my spear. Damn, damn—I hate lightning. Hey, I can’t break more than one of those stupid shields at a time. My spear doesn’t go through ‘em all. I could get three with [Triple Thrust], but that—”

Both of them looked up as Montressa pointed her staff. Grimalkin raised his arm.

“Hm. [Resistance to Lightning]. [Force Shield].”

This time the lightning bolts burst on the shield. Arcs of electricity hit Relc and Grimalkin, but the enchantment meant the bolts did little more than tickle. Relc sighed.

“Ooh, nice.”

“Thank you.”

“You want to go up there and hit her? I’m fed up with eating spells.”

Grimalkin paused. He was watching Montressa with narrowed eyes.

“That’s a good barrier spell. She must be a specialist.”

He shouted up at Montressa.

“Human. Put down that staff! Release your mana or I will come up there! I am Grimalkin of Pallass and this is the Gecko of Liscor!”

“Aw, don’t say—”

“Don’t come any closer! I’m a [Mage] of Wistram! I’ve done nothing wrong!”

Montressa’s voice was hoarse. Grimalkin raised his brows.

“I’d surrender, Miss [Mage]. I’d prefer not to kill any more [Mages] from Wistram right now. You’ve attacked innocent people in Liscor. Put down your staff now.”

“Yeah! You’re under arrest! You’d better pray the Horns are alright! Surrender and you won’t be harmed!”

He turned to Grimalkin and lowered his voice.

“If they’re dead, we’ll probably feed them to Shield Spiders. If Erin doesn’t kill them.”

Montressa hadn’t heard the last part, but her eyes bulged as Grimalkin began walking casually up towards her. She shrieked at him and Relc.

“For what? We apprehended criminals!”

The Drakes paused. Grimalkin was frowning. He looked at Relc. Montressa desperately seized onto that.

“We explained to your Watch Captain why we’re here! We did nothing wrong!”

Grimalkin glanced back at Relc questioningly. The [Guardsman] paled.

“Oh shit. Did she?”

“Liar!”

Erin burst out of The Wandering Inn. She was panting. She pointed down at Montressa and shouted at Relc and Grimalkin.

“They did something to the Horns of Hammerad! Mrsha said she smelled their blood.”

“Wait. You attacked a group of [Mages] just based on that?”

Grimalkin folded his arms. Relc scratched at the back of his head.

“Yeah, sort of shoddy evidence. Oh shit. Maybe—”

“We only captured them! They’re alive! But that monster—that—that murderer! The [Necromancer]! Pisces! He’s a monster!”

Montressa shouted up at Erin. She aimed her staff at the [Innkeeper] and it began to glow. Relc lifted his spear, aiming it. Grimalkin’s brows snapped together.

“Drop the staff. You won’t get a second chance.”

He lifted a fist. Montressa wavered. She looked at Erin. She looked down at Grimalkin. Relc was dodging around the hill, circling as he advanced. Suddenly he looked up. Stared at Liscor’s walls. Then he ran. Grimalkin glanced up as Relc bellowed at him.

“Incoming! Get clear—”

Atop Liscor’s walls, a spell was forming. Magic coalesced, blobbed together, and then shaped itself. A shimmering, purple-white comet tinged with brilliant blue shot down from the heavens. Montressa turned, and her eyes went wide. The spell was huge. She threw up her arms, mouthing a spell—

The explosion and impact of the comet striking the ground next to Montressa’s barriers was followed a second later by a kick that sent Erin stumbling backwards. Relc and Grimalkin didn’t move. The two Drakes braced and Erin looked around wildly. She was half-blind and her ears were ringing from the sound. What happened? What had—

She realized what had happened as she stared at Liscor, and then at the hill where Montressa had been standing. A spell. From atop one of Liscor’s walls. Someone had fired it! She looked down at the hill—



—-



“Direct hit on the hill, Watch Captain!”

“Good.”

Watch Captain Zevara lowered the command scroll tied to the wall’s inbuilt spells. The rest of the Watch stared at her, keeping a respectful distance. She squinted down at the hill.

“The [Mage]?”

“Alive, Watch Captain. Her barriers—held the blast.”

A Gnoll gulped as he pointed. Zevara stared at the shimmering shield surrounding Montressa.

“Huh. I should have hit her directly, then. Send a team down, now.”



—-



Grimalkin brushed at dirt from his scales. Relc was swearing, cupping a claw to one of his earholes. Grimalkin stared up at the hilltop. Despite himself, he was impressed.

“Hm. She is one of Wistram’s better [Mages]. That only got four of her barriers. A pure defensive expert; the orb’s got good synergy. You know, I could adapt this tactic. Where are my notes?”

Montressa was lying face-flat on the hilltop. The bombardment spell from Liscor’s walls had knocked her flat, barriers or not. She looked up, nose bloody, and tried to get up. Drakes and Gnolls were advancing from Liscor, running across the uneven terrain. She pointed a staff at Grimalkin and Relc as they climbed.

“[Flame Veil]! Stay back! This isn’t right! I said, stay back! [Chain Lightning]!”

This time Grimalkin caught the spell as Relc raised his spear. The lightning struck both spear and the [Sinew Magus]’s arm; it flared, thundering, and both he and Relc stepped back. Unharmed. It was mostly from curiosity at this point; Montressa was swaying, but both Drakes eyed the orb floating around her staff.

“What the hell is that orb? Some kind of artifact?”

“She’s dual-casting from it. No—the spells are linked to the orb. All lightning-based. Some kind of artifact?”

Montressa swung her staff, aiming at both Drakes. Relc sighed.

“Seriously, drop it. Or I will break something. I’m almost as mad as Captain Z.”

“I’m a Wistram—”

Grimalkin’s eye twitched.

“Young woman. Say that one more time and I will hurt you.”

“Relc, Grimalkin! Watch your backs!”

The two Drakes turned. Relc and Grimalkin saw a shape appear in the door. Jelaqua roared, grabbing what remained of Ulinde’s corpse. She was still grappling with Ulinde, immobilizing her—part of her real body was seeped into the [Mage]’s wrecked corpse and it was twitching, signs of an internal battle. But that meant neither she nor the two immobilized Halfseekers or Numbtongue could stop—

“Nobody move!”

Isceil held a wand to Erin’s face. She was struggling, in the grip of Beza. The Minotaur looked unsteady, but she was holding Erin, ignoring the [Innkeeper] kicking at her and Isceil. The shout stopped the [Guards] rushing towards Montressa. Relc groaned and Grimalkin sighed.

“Should have broken the jaw.”

“Erin!”

“Stay back!”

Isceil’s eyes were wild as Relc began to storm up the hill. Grimalkin held up a claw, catching Relc.

“Relc, hold off the [Barrier Mage]. I’ll stop those two. Let the [Innkeeper] go, [Mages].”

He strode up the hill, ignoring Isceil’s shouts. The Drake’s wand emitted a jet of fire and Erin shouted. Grimalkin stopped. His voice was a roar, as loud as when Erin had first met him.

“I am Grimalkin of Pallass! You—Drake, and you, Minotaur. Let her go or you’ll find yourself on a watch list across all of Izril. And you, Minotauress! Where’s your honor?”

The Drake and Minotaur hesitated. Isceil gritted his teeth as Beza clenched one hand unsteadily. Isceil shouted back.

“Let us go! We’re from Wistram! We have rights—”

“You’re under arrest! Lay down your weapons or we will shoot you! [Archers]!”

Beilmark howled as she arrived. The [Guards] with her leveled their weapons. The [Mages] froze. Beza called out.

“Montressa, tell them! We’re hunting criminals!”

“That changes nothing about this situation. Lay. Down. Your. Weapons.”

Grimalkin was losing patience. Montressa shouted at him.

“We’re from Wistram! What part of that you don’t you understand? The Academy sent us to—”

“[Piercing Shot].”

Someone loosed an arrow. Beilmark jerked. The arrow flew, straight and true. On the hilltop, Montressa, Relc, Grimalkin—and the watching Isceil, Beza, and Erin all saw the arrow fly. Straight at Montressa du Valeross as she looked around.

The arrow went straight through her shoulder. Montressa spun with the impact. Her mouth was wide open, gaping. She stumbled. Isceil’s eyes went wide.

“Mont—”

A second arrow sprouted from the arm holding the wand to Erin’s face. He jerked screaming. Beza raised her arm. An arrow appeared in her left shoulder. Then her right. And then one more in her left forearm. She stared down at the arrows as Erin stumbled away from her, ducking reflexively.

Erin heard a soft hiss, and a thunk. Then a scream. The Minotaur stared down at an arrow sticking out of her abdomen. Another arrow hit Isceil in the knee.

What was happening? The [Guards] took cover reflexively, shouting at each other. Relc and Grimalkin stared around, pinpointing the [Archer].

And then—there was a song. A warbling voice, cheerful, singing, accompanied by the flight of arrows. Thock, thock, thock. Erin’s eyes widened.

“La, la, arrow here, arrow there. Should I shoot to kill? Or should I not? This are very complicated thoughts. Shoot, shoot, shot.”

Bird stood on a hill and drew back on his beloved, new bow. He was singing, drawing arrows and loosing with all four arms. Two more arrows shot from his bow. One struck Isceil in the other knee and he dropped. The other hit Montressa’s arm as she raised her wand. She went white and her eyes rolled up in her head. Beza was on her knees. Bird kept firing.

“Stop! Stop!”

Beilmark howled it, but Bird was still loosing arrows. Grimalkin moved to block the arrow shooting at Beza. Relc was quicker. He slashed with his spear and an arrow snapped in midair.

“Bird, stop!”

The rain of arrows obligingly ceased. In the silence, as the [Mages] lay on the ground and everyone, Zevara, the [Guards], Grimalkin, and Relc all stared, Bird marched up the hill.

He had a new bow. And his carapace looked—new. Undamaged with the nicks and damage older Workers and Soldiers accumulated. More than that, he had four arms. Two legs. He was whole. He paused as Erin stared at him. Both of them ignored the [Mages]. After a moment, Bird raised a hand.

“Hello, Erin. I am Bird. Did you forget about me?”

“Bird?”

The Worker paused uncertainly.

“Is that a yes? I am Bird. I have a room here. And I used to have a tower. It was exploded by a Goblin. With a sword. May I have it back?”

He pointed up at the roof of the inn, still not finished. Bird paused. And he looked at Erin. His mandibles opened and closed.

“Do you remember me?”

Erin reached out, her eyes filling with tears. She hugged him, laughing. Bird held stock still, and then he patted her on the head with one of his hands.

“Is this a yes? Or a no?”

“Of course I missed you, Bird. I tried to visit! Where were you?”

“Healing.”

The Worker stared at Erin. She laughed, and he kicked at the ground. She heard a groan and looked down. Beza’s eyes were nearly rolled up in her head. Bird paused.

“I’m home. Who are these people? Bad people?”

“I—”

And then the inn was crowded. Zevara slammed out of the door of the inn, having used the magic door. Erin turned as the Watch Captain stared around.

“What in the name of the Ancestors was that? Senior Guardsman Relc? Front and center!”

She bellowed as [Guards] streamed out. They dropped on the [Mages], grabbing wands and their possessions as more trained bows on them. Erin saw Relc jogging up the hill.

“Hi Watch Captain—”

“Senior Guardsman Relc! Explain this before I take that spear and shove it up your tailpipe!”

Zevara bellowed in his face. Erin hadn’t heard her this mad in a long time, and never not at her. Bird looked at her and she hugged him. He sighed.

“I am much cuddled. Are there any birds left? I have missed them.”

“Watch Captain, I uh, was responding to a distress call—”

“Why in the name of the Ancestors was I not informed?”

“It was an emergency, Watch Captain. Lyonette found me first, and then she ran to see you—”

“We were busy dealing with the Centaur situation, Watch Captain.”

One of the [Guards] winced as Zevara rounded on him. She stared at the door—and then as it burst open.

“Move! I heard—by the walls!”

Keldrass and Bevussa burst into the inn. Zevara stared at them and shouted.

“Keep them clear! No—shut up, Relc! Someone find Miss Lyonette before she calls half the city on this inn!”

“Is Lyonette okay? I sent everyone out of the inn! And I tried to tell you all, but it was hard and I was looking for Relc and the Gold-ranks—oh no! There’s one more [Mage]!”

Erin was panting, wiping at her bloody mouth. Beilmark shook her head.

“Miss Lyonette wasn’t in the barracks. She must have missed the excitement. There’s a Centaur in custody.”

“Put all these [Mages] in a magic-warded cell! Patch them up first—[Healers]! And get me Guildmistress Alonna!”

Zevara was roaring, looking for someone to take her fury out on. But the [Mages] weren’t even conscious. Jelaqua dropped what looked like a side of meat in front of the [Guards]. Everyone recoiled.

“Dead?”

“Selphid.”

Jelaqua growled. The Gnolls backed up as the Raskghar-body rolled its shoulders. The…remains of the corpse that was Ulinde was making a sound, but not with any part of the body. It came from inside and sounded a bit like sobbing; a buzzing, bubbling sound.

“I dealt with this one. It’s not causing any more trouble. And I was nice after what they did to my team.”

The Gold-rank Selphid looked around. Moore was sitting up, prodding at his chest, and Seborn was helping him up, supporting one arm. Relc snorted as he saw Numbtongue leaning against the bar.

“That was a terrible fight. Those stupid [Mages] were using spells and I was afraid to hit them too hard. So was everyone else.”

Zevara’s lips compressed. She looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] was unsteady on her feet.

“Miss Solstice. Explain this to me. I met one of the Wistram [Mages] who informed me he attacked and abducted Pisces, and the rest of his team after enchanting Miss Selys.”

“Selys! Is she alright? The Horns—”

Zevara held up a claw. She was looking around.

“Magus Grimalkin?”

“Here.”

The Drake loomed and the Watch respectfully backed up. Grimalkin’s arms were folded and he looked extremely displeased. Zevara nodded to him, modulating her bark.

“Magus Grimalkin, thank you for your help.”

“What I gave. I’m still trying to ascertain what just occurred. Has a crime been committed or not, Watch Captain? I dislike being the first resort for Miss Solstice as well. Miss Erin, Watch Captain Zevara was the first person you should have informed if you suspected danger to your friends.”

“But—”

Erin hesitated as Grimalkin glared at her. Surprisingly, it was Zevara who came to her aid, shaking her head.

“To my knowledge, it was completely illegal, Magus Grimalkin. They ensorcelled one of Liscor’s citizens and attacked an adventurer team in my city without provocation. They apparently also used a spell on an entire bar! Miss Selys was apparently a witness to it all, but—apathetic until the enchantment was released.”

A furious murmur ran through the Watch. Relc spat, hitting Montressa as someone dragged her past him. Grimalkin’s frown deepened.

“Mind-blanking spells. This is typical Wistram arrogance. Which doesn’t change the fact that they had a reason to go after the Horns of Hammerad, Watch Captain. I’d like to know what that was. Regardless, I’m satisfied on the count of their guilt. Wistram has done this before. Not in Pallass, but elsewhere, certainly.”

He looked at Zevara and she bared her teeth.

“I’m aware of that. But no one casts spells on Liscor’s citizens. Moreover, I want to know what exactly the Horns of Hammerad have done to incur Wistram’s wrath. Casting mass-attack spells like [Chain Lightning] in the vicinity of Liscor around civilians is another felony, although I assume they didn’t start the fight?”

“Are they alive?”

Zevara nodded as Erin looked at them anxiously.

“That’s what I heard. The Centaur mentioned apprehending them, but I don’t see them anywhere. We will find them, Miss Solstice. Now explain to me how you knew they’d attacked the Horns of Hammerad.”

Erin pointed back into the inn.

“Mrsha smelled blood on them. Blood from the Horns of Hammerad.”

“And you believed her?”

One of the Drake [Guards] was skeptical, but all the Gnolls—as well as Zevara and Grimalkin—didn’t seem bothered.

“Junior Guardsman Silt, the ability of Gnolls to detect blood is a recognized aspect of law enforcement. Your colleagues are allowed to make credible investigations into violence based on what they smell. Miss Solstice acted beyond her rights as a…citizen of Liscor, but we’ll discuss that later.”

It looked like it cost Zevara to say that last. Grimalkin raised his brows as she turned to her officers.

“Well, that settles it. Senior Guardswoman Beilmark? Take some Gnolls and track down the Horns with Relc—”

“There won’t be a need for that, Watch Captain. If I’m right, your search would only end up right back here.”

Grimalkin interrupted. He looked at the [Mages]; a [Healer] was seeing to them and cursing at Bird’s arrows. Bird stared at Bevussa and waved. Numbtongue stared at Bird. Bird waved at him too. Grimalkin strode over to Montressa and peered at her belt, then bent and came up with the black cube.

“Ah, I thought so. This team is very typical of the academy.”

He showed the object around. Erin stared at it.

“What is it?”

“A Silent Box. It’s a mage-prison developed by Wistram. A kind of contained space—very old artifacts, similar to Bags of Holding but much, much more advanced. I tried using the same methods myself. This team must have wanted their quarry badly to be sent with one of these.”

“They’re in there?”

Even Zevara looked shocked. Grimalkin nodded, grimacing.

“Simple enough. It’s like a Bag of Holding, not like an actual dimension you can walk into. I just have to release them. It’s fairly intuitive if…”

He touched the door and it shone. Grimalkin reached in—or perhaps the box expanded to fit his hands—and suddenly four figures were lying on the ground. Ceria sat up. Her eyes went wide, refocusing in the dimmer light.

“Stop! Montress—”

She raised her skeletal hand, ice crystallizing around her finger. Grimalkin jerked her hand up and the [Ice Spike] shot into the air. Zevara swore and recoiled. Yvlon swung muzzily, her arm still twisted. Ksmvr jerked.

“—war. If they are hurt, the Antinium—”

He stopped and stared around. Ceria blinked at Grimalkin and her eyes went wide. The [Sinew Magus] nodded at her and then instantly focused on Yvlon. She was staring around wildly.

“Where are we? What—”

“Pisces!”

Erin shouted. Everyone, Horns, adventurers, and [Guards] turned. A white mass of robes lay on the ground. But it was deceptive. Pisces’ enchanted robes were the only clean thing about him. The rest—Erin stared down. His face was swollen, and bloody.

He wasn’t moving.

“Pisces?”

She reached for him. Grimalkin grabbed her hand. He waved an arm and something pushed everyone back. Only the [Healer] and he were close. Grimalkin’s claw hovered over Pisces’ face.

“Still unconscious. He’s badly beaten. I detect bone chips—broken bones here—ruptured blood vessels—”

“Magus Grimalkin, I have localized tonics—”

“Good. You’re familiar with multiple fractures in bones? Right here. Here. There’s blood and swelling here—how localized are your tonics?”

The [Sinew Magus] was calm as could be as he knelt over Pisces. Erin pressed against the barrier, desperate to get closer. It trembled and she fell through. Grimalkin looked up, annoyed.

“Turn off your aura, Miss Solstice. Don’t interfere with my spells. This is a delicate process.”

“My—is he going to be alright?”

“Silent Boxes preserve those who are captured as they were. Time passes very slowly; these injuries are fresh. Stand back and let us work.”

Erin did as Grimalkin bent. Ceria was babbling to Zevara.

“I—we tried to talk! But if we started throwing deadly spells—”

“I’ll send a team to the bar. Was anyone else hurt?”

“No. Just Pisces. The rest of the adventurers were incapacitated. But someone check on Ksmvr.”

Yvlon grabbed Ksmvr. The Worker was still smoking from the electrical burns he’d taken. He shook his head as a second [Healer] looked at him.

“I am functional. Yvlon. Someone must see to you.”

“What?”

The woman looked at him. Slowly, Zevara pointed.

“Your arm’s dislocated.”

Yvlon looked down. Her armor had been twisted. Ceria gasped as she saw—Yvlon covered the gap as the [Healer] ran over.

“It’s fine. Just dislocated. Swollen. A bit of infection. It’s—”

Erin saw Yvlon being led away. Ksmvr followed her, leaving Ceria behind. She watched as the [Healer] reduced Pisces’ swelling and Grimalkin straightened. He nodded at Erin.

“He should be fine. They left him alive on purpose.”

Erin exhaled, but Ceria was shaking. She pointed at the unconscious four [Mages] and ice began forming around her hand. Grimalkin moved between her and the [Mages]. The half-Elf’s face was white.

“They jumped us. It was Montressa and some [Mages] from Wistram. How dare they? We didn’t do anything! They—”

“You know her?”

Ceria looked up. She nodded in response to Zevara’s question.

“That’s Montressa du Valeross. She was a classmate of ours in Wistram, years ago. She’s…she’s all grown up.”

Erin’s eyes widened. Ceria stared down at Montressa’s face. Zevara cursed.

“So they are official [Mages] from Wistram? Dead gods damn it. This just got a lot more complicated.”

“What are you going to do?”

Erin looked at Zevara. She wanted to—the fight in the inn still hadn’t left her. Her friends had gotten hurt! More of her friends! She wanted to kick the downed [Mages]. Even Bird’s arrows sticking out of them didn’t make her feel better. She was so angry—she could barely remember being this furious before. Zevara glanced at her and the Watch Captain’s tone softened.

“Let the [Healers] see to you. Magus Grimalkin, will you sign off on my report? I need to make an immediate statement and to query Wistram.”

“Of course.”

Grimalkin nodded. Ceria stared around as Zevara strode past them, shouting more orders. Now it was silent, Erin could see Seborn drinking from behind the bar. Moore was feeling at his chest as Jelaqua hugged him.

“I was shut down. My magic—”

“It wasn’t you, Moore. I wasn’t there.”

“I should have gone for the kill. You alright, Moore?”

Numbtongue was sitting down, being tended to by Mrsha and Lyonette. The Gnoll was licking him as Lyonette checked him over. Erin stared around her inn. It was trashed; tables and chairs obliterated by spells. Some of the [Actors] were peeking out from behind the backstage.

Like before. It was a familiar scene, but different. Erin shook with anger. This wasn’t right. She looked at Ceria and her mouth worked silently. At last, she pointed to Montressa.

“That’s your friend, Ceria?”

“She was.”

The half-Elf sat down on the floor, watching the [Healer] tend to Pisces. She shook her head and covered her face.

“She was a long time ago.”



—-



Fury. Zevara expelled it in bursts of air. They might have been sentences. Or curses that only happened to sound like words. She was bellowing at a terrified [Scribe], standing in the Mage’s Guild, flanked by an entire squad of her [Guards]. The [Mage] on duty and Guildmistress Alonna were both present, communicating with Liscor. Councilmember or not—Zevara kept bellowing.

“—demand an immediate explanation for this!”

“Yes, Watch Captain, but Wistram—”

Zevara’s fist made the [Scribe] and everything on the counter jump.

“Directly to whomever’s in authority! I don’t care about Wistram’s protocols! This is an assault and a violation of Wistram’s neutrality.”

“Yes, Watch Captain. Wistram says—”

The Watch Captain was in direct communication with Wistram. Or rather, she was still shouting invectives as if they could pass via [Message].

“Wistram had no authority to make an arrest in Liscor! Moreover, they used mind-alteration spells on a citizen of the city—I am charging them with assault on a citizen, use of dangerous magics in a public area and against a member of the Watch, attempted abduction of adventurers—”

“Watch Captain!”

The [Scribe]’s voice was loud enough to match Zevara’s, perhaps from sheer self-survival. The Watch Captain paused and stared at the [Scribe]. The female Gnoll cringed, but she lifted a scroll where she’d been transcribing replies.

“Wistram has heard your complaint, Watch Captain. They are taking this very seriously. Archmage Naili has been informed, and one of their Council Mages is sending replies!”

“Oh—well, you may convey to them my extreme displeasure!”

Zevara was caught off-guard for a second. The [Scribe] winced, but she was reading from the [Messages].

“Of course, Watch Captain, but Wistram would like to know—are their [Mages] alive? They would like to communicate with Mage Montressa, or if she is incapacitated—”

“They do not get to set demands! This was an attack! All five [Mages] are under arrest!”

The [Scribe] watched Alonna and the Drake [Mage] sending that. Her quill blurred—she was autocopying a response somehow.

“Watch Captain, Wistram is deeply sorry for the incident. They want you to know that their team was pursuing a fugitive—”

“Pisces? He’s not a threat! He doesn’t have a record! He paid his bounty!”

“—an extremely dangerous individual! Convicted across multiple cities—”

“Petty offences! Where does it say he’s a murderer? I never received that report and believe me, we checked!”

“—Wistram’s own logs—”

“If there’s no bounty, it’s not a damn crime and he’s not a criminal! As far as I’m concerned, this was an adventurer and the Adventurer’s Guild will be informed! Not just Liscor’s—this is a group of Wistram’s [Mages] attacking an adventurer! For reasons they did not deign to inform me, in a city—and then going after his team!”

“Ceria Springwalker—”

Zevara hissed. The [Scribe] shut up. Zevara spoke very slowly.

“Tell Wistram this: they had no cause to attack Pisces without public record of crimes and a bounty worthy of this action! They had no right to take the law into their hands in my city without informing me. Their [Mages] are guilty of assault, illicit use of magics—they will be held and charged! Severely! And I will be lodging a formal notice with the Adventurer’s Guilds, as well as sending a copy of my complaints to the Walled Cities, Liscor’s High Command, Liscor’s Council and—”

She couldn’t think of anything else. Zevara finished, pounding the desk.

“Wistram’s [Mages] will be held until their full fine is paid, upon which they will be exiled from Liscor! Is that clear?”

The [Scribe] was cowed. Zevara relaxed, realizing she wasn’t really yelling at the young Gnoll. She was just doing her job. The Watch Captain paused, and cleared her throat.

“Apologies for yelling.”

“No problem, Watch Captain.”

The Gnoll should have won an award for the smile she gave Zevara. She glanced sideways; the two [Mages] were transmitting Zevara’s words. The Watch Captain stepped back. She wanted to pace, or curse.

Ancestors, she knew Pisces was trouble. She was even curious herself what he’d done to make Wistram so mad. But for all the trouble he’d caused, she distinctly remembered him fighting Face-Eater Moths and conjuring the rainstorm. And fighting the Raskghar! And Skinner.

She was angry at Wistram. Zevara had always considered the Academy, well, useful, if an occasional irritant. She didn’t think of them, really. They were just there, like the Mage’s Guild. Sometimes they had requests, but they were always simple enough and their [Mages] had been, until this moment, snooty, expensive, but effective.

Now this? Zevara waited for a response. She was hoping for something deeply apologetic, although nothing could soothe her temper. But that was where she made a mistake.

Because she didn’t know Wistram. She didn’t know it at all. And one of the things Zevara should have, might have needed to know, was this: Wistram Academy was many things. Insular, arrogant, magical, guarded, jealous—any number of things. But what it wasn’t good at was folding.

When Wistram wanted something and something turned out to be a problem, the Academy didn’t back away and beg forgiveness. It doubled down.

“Watch Captain, Wistram has a response.”

After a few minutes the [Scribe] looked up. She was biting one lip as she read. Zevara’s tail lashed the floor impatiently.

“Well?”

“They’ll pay the fine.”

“…What?”

The Gnoll looked up, cringing at Zevara’s expression.

“They’ll pay the fine for Mage Montressa’s team. All of it.”

“I haven’t set a fine!”

“No, Watch Captain. But the [Message] says…they’ll pay it. And they would like Mage Montressa released at your earliest convenience.”

“My earliest…you tell whoever’s sending the [Message] to take that request and ram it so far up their own—”

“There’s more.”

Like a [Captain] sailing into the heart of a maelstrom, the [Scribe] went on doggedly, determined to see the worst through. She was scribing faster, and she began reading as she wrote.

“Incoming alert! Bounty on Pisces Jealnet. Alive. Full list of crimes incoming. Estimated threat level: Level 26 [Necromancer]. Bounty price—two thousand gold pieces, claimable at any Wistram-directed Mage’s Guild. Bounty being forwarded to all cities across Izril. Description…”

Zevara stared at the [Scribe] in horror.

“Wait, what are you doing? You can’t do that! Countermand that [Message]!”

The Gnoll gave her a wretched look.

“It’s a mass-update to the Mage’s Guilds, Watch Captain. There’s more. A biography on Pisces Jealnet, son of Padurn Jealnet, [Fencer]. Common-born of Terandria; family in service to the House Dultel. Accused of [Necromancy]; fled. Accused of petty thievery and necrophilia. Became [Mage] of Wistram under false pretenses, expelled for grave robbing and related deaths of 46 [Mages]. Status as Wistram graduate not ratified by Wistram’s Council or Archmages…”

It came on and on. Zevara had to take a step back. She stared at the [Scribe]. The Gnoll’s face was pale and tight as she was speaking. Zevara looked around. And then someone tapped her on the shoulder. Zevara turned.

Wing Commander Embria looked unhappily at Zevara as she held up a glowing communication stone. She held it out.

“Watch Captain. High Command wishes to speak to you now.”





6.59


“Watch Captain Zevara, are you aware of how many services Wistram provides for Liscor’s army and the city itself?”

Wing Commander Embria knew the voice that snapped out of the speaking stone in Watch Captain Zevara’s claw. She winced and shuffled her feet; she would have looked away, but what would be the point? She stood in the Watch Commander’s office and listened. Wincing.

After the first burst of sound, the voice was quieter, but Watch Captain Zevara’s replies were audible from where Embria stood.

“I—no, ma’am. The situation—no, High Strategist. Yes, but—it was clearly—no. Yes, I understand. I—given the situation—yes. However—yes. I’ll bear the High Command’s wishes—thank you.”

Zevara’s expression said a world, as did her writhing tail, but her tone was deferential. Embria winced as Zevara put down the speaking stone. She handed it to Embria, who silently took the valuable magical item. Wing Commander Embria opened her mouth, noted Zevara’s expression—and the smoke—and fled.

Watch Captain Zevara listened to Embria close the door and pound downstairs at double-time for a few seconds. Then she gave vent to her emotions. She pounded a fist on her desktop and shouted a number of words that brought one of the [Guards] running. They were still on edge, but Watch Captain Zevara’s glare made the [Guardswoman] close the door and wait until Zevara had vented her metaphorical and literal fire.

“Watch Captain, do you have orders?”

“Yes. Come in, Guardswoman.”

Zevara slumped as the female Drake opened the door cautiously. The [Guardswoman] stood to attention and Zevara looked up.

“The [Mage] prisoners from Wistram. Where are they now and what’s their condition?”

“Stable, Watch Captain. They’ve all been treated and healed—the Minotaur has a hairline fracture on her jaw and the Drake and Human both have bone chips from the arrows. The Selphid’s body is uh, destroyed, but it’s been healed. As for the Centaur—a few cracked ribs, but all healing.”

That meant they were practically fine. Healing potions—low grade ones—couldn’t heal bones, but everything else from arrow wounds to gashes would be closed. Zevara nodded grimly.

“Are they awake?”

“Yes, Watch Captain. We have them in the mage cells and we’re still in the process of cataloguing their gear.”

“Fine. Release them.”

“Watch Captain?”

The Drake froze. She eyed Zevara as if she suspected her superior were under a spell. But Zevara still had the detection charm on one wrist and the stupid little Human face was smiling, a sign of no mental enchantments on her. Zevara glared and spat the words like poison.

“Release them. That’s an order straight from the High Command. I want their belongings returned, and them marched…damn, here. Get the Horns of Hammerad here, and Miss Solstice and Magus Grimalkin if he’s so inclined. And anyone else! But keep them apart until I return, got it? And make sure Relc and Senior Guardsman Klbkch are there to keep order!”

“Yes, Watch Captain. Where will you be in the meantime?”

The Drake [Guardswoman] saluted reflexively. Zevara got up. The [Guardswoman] stared at her, confused. Zevara shook her head in reply. She stomped towards the door.

“I need to see the Council.”



—-



Liscor’s Council met. In fact, they were already meeting when Zevara strode into the council room. They didn’t waste time. At least, the real Council, the ones who made the decisions, didn’t.

They were Elirr, Raekea, and Krshia, who were in a sense, the Gnollish party. And on the other side were Lism, Jeiss, and Alonna, as well as Tismel and Zalaiss, who represented Drakes. Those were the official battle lines. But there was a third party known as the ‘Council who wants to get things done and resents the really expensive and idiot practices of the previous Councils’ party, which consisted of everyone but Tismel and Zalaiss.

It was a source of much tension, mainly from Tismel and Zalaiss. But both were conspicuously absent today—indeed, they rarely showed up. They lacked the votes to sway all but contentious issues and Zalaiss was either drunk when she arrived, or she and Tismel were with the old Council, relaying the current one’s decisions or trying to think up something that didn’t involve getting past Relc and his fist.

For now, the current Council ruled and they were active. But Watch Captain Zevara’s presence was their concern of the moment. And it had to be said, none of them were happy either.

“They did what in my city?”

Lism’s bellow echoed throughout the conference room. Krshia, Elirr, and Raekea clapped their paws to their ears, glaring. But Lism was furious. Almost as furious as Krshia. She leaned forwards, addressing Zevara.

“And we’re letting them go? All of this was decided without our input? Already?”

“That’s right, Councilmembers. I am simply informing you of my decisions, which were all undertaken under my own authority as Watch Captain.”

Zevara stared straight past Lism’s head, speaking to everyone and no one. Olesm, standing by the door, winced. But he was also staring.

Wistram’s [Mages] had tried to abduct the Horns of Hammerad? Ceria? And they’d done it in public—and hexed Selys and started a fight at Erin’s inn? No, wait—Olesm checked his notes. Erin had started the fight.

Either way, it was a disaster. Not for Liscor, but for Wistram. Or so Olesm had assumed. But Zevara’s next statement had all the Councilmembers staring.

“I have ordered the Wistram team’s immediate release, and their items will be restored to them. They will…not…be banned from Liscor, although they will be under the strictest surveillance. I will personally make that clear to them—”

“But you’re letting them stay? And you’re releasing them from prison? Why in the name of the Ancestors would you do that, Watch Captain?”

Lism’s fist hit the table furiously. He glared at Zevara. Alonna, sitting beside him, was silent, her arms folded. Lism glared at Zevara.

“They ensorcelled Miss Shivertail? That’s illegal! They should be fined, then beaten with sticks, and then exiled for good! Not given a slap on the wrist and—”

“Lism, shut up, you. Let Watch Captain Zevara explain herself. I am sure she has a reason. And I am more curious about this bounty Alonna mentioned, yes?”

Krshia glared at Lism. He opened his mouth, but Olesm cut in. His job, rather than to drag the Council from topic to topic, was to keep them from quarrelling, which was much easier.

“On that note, Councilmembers? I have a record of the bounty from the Mage’s Guild. Here are copies—”

He passed them out, and then stepped back and offered Zevara a copy. She shook her head, lashing her tail. Olesm stepped back and read from his. His stomach twisted in the silence.

“A two thousand coin bounty? That is high.”

Raekea’s brows shot up. She stared at the parchment and then up at the others. Jeiss shook his head absently. The Senior Guardsman muttered.

“Not for an adventurer. Olesm, is this right?”

“Yes, Councilmember Jeiss.”

“I could live on two thousand gold pieces for years!”

Lism croaked faintly. Jeiss shrugged.

“It’s a lot, but I’ve seen ones in the tens of thousands for Gold-ranks. That’s usual. Silver-ranks go from a few hundred to a few thousand—but aside from idiots, this one won’t attract too many [Bounty Hunters] unless they’re in the area.”

“Do we have to worry about that, then?”

“Pisces? This is on Pisces?”

Krshia stared at the parchment. Zevara nodded shortly.

“Allow me to explain. Allegedly, this [Mage] team was sent here to apprehend the adventurer known as Pisces…Jealnet, and his companion, Ceria Springwalker, as criminals to be tried in Wistram.”

“Jealnet?”

Krshia blinked and then focused on Zevara. The other Councilmembers did too. Zevara went on, pacing back and forth.

“Wistram has explained the actions its team took as hunting a fugitive, a criminal. Pisces Jealnet. He has a list of verified crimes, some of which I am aware of, and his team was apprehended when they refused to give him up. I understand Ceria Springwalker, the leader of his team, was also sought by Wistram.”

“Legally? I know Ceria. What has she done?”

Krshia interrupted. Zevara shook her head, looking frustrated.

“The [Message] I received skimmed over Miss Springwalker’s crimes aside from impersonating a [Mage] of Wistram, but I received a rather extensive report on Pisces. He is, as many of you know, a [Necromancer], but he has a long list of minor crimes from many, many Humans cities. Everything from extortion to burglary to blackmail and the usual [Necromancer] crimes. Joining a coven, grave robbing, animation of the undead—”

“And we allowed someone like that to roam free in Liscor? Watch Commander, this individual is an adventurer in Liscor, yes? I thought I saw them at the parade? Why hasn’t our Watch arrested them?”

Raekea looked appalled, as did Lism. Zevara frowned in reply.

“He had several extortion charges around Liscor, but he paid off his debt and was allowed to enter the city. I was not aware of the charges from other cities, or I might have considered barring him from entry, but…”

She hesitated and Jeiss coughed. He looked around the table and explained.

“Councilmembers, those are crimes committed in Human lands. We don’t usually share criminal information aside from major threats because their Watch Captains aren’t as organized as ours. Besides, Drake law allows for some felons to enter a Drake city even if they’ve been convicted in other cities. This Pisces wasn’t a major criminal. We might have watched him and done spot-checks if we suspected him of thievery under truth spell, though.”

Zevara nodded.

“We did. Rigorously. And he passed each one, as well as provided some services for the city, so the Watch didn’t consider him a threat. However, in addition to his petty crimes, there is one of serious concern. Pisces Jealnet was allegedly responsible for the deaths of over sixty [Mages] in Wistram due to a case of rampant necromancy, for which he was expelled.”

“Dead gods. And that’s accurate?”

“Wistram claims so.”

The Council murmured. Lism looked skeptical and angry, Alonna was tracing on the table with one claw—Jeiss just looked at Zevara. The Gnolls did too, waiting for the shoe to drop.

“So, Wistram’s team pursued a fugitive. A former student from their Academy. But why didn’t they apprehended him when he committed this heinous crime? Don’t tell me he evaded all of their [Archmages] and whatnot all this time.”

Raekea looked around, and her gaze settled on the [Strategist] in the room. The rest of the Council turned to Olesm expectantly and Zevara glanced at him. Olesm avoided everyone’s gaze as he stared at the parchment in his claws. He kept his voice steady.

“I investigated that, Councilmembers. According to one of the [Mages] from Wistram—the Centaur, Palt—I was told that he was allowed to go free until he started committing crimes once more. Apparently, Wistram didn’t want to make his trial public knowledge, but his continued activities drew their attention. He did, in fact, have a trial to begin with, but apparently it was a very complicated moment and he was allowed to go free, albeit as an expelled student.”

“Until Wistram decided it wanted him back. Wonderful. So that’s why they’re here. I’m still waiting to hear why they’re suddenly allowed to dance out of prison! We don’t let anyone do that! No one, not even that Human.”

Lism folded his arms furiously. Zevara bit her tongue. She looked up and grudgingly replied.

“Councilmember Lism, I was prepared to let Wistram’s [Mages] rot in prison. And I am still intending to file a public complaint with the Walled Cities! However—it has been made clear to me that it would not be wise to keep Wistram’s team.”

“By who? If they threatened—”

“By the High Command, Councilmember.”

The room fell silent. Zevara looked around. She was breathing hard, her eyes narrowed with helpless anger.

“You may recall that Liscor’s walls are enchanted. And we also rely on a number of services provided by [Mages]. So too does Liscor’s army. High Command informed me of this fact, and gave me specific instructions regarding the treatment of Wistram’s team.”

“But that—wait, High Command spoke to you?”

“Through Wing Commander Embria, yes. Not twenty minutes ago.”

Zevara glanced sideways at Olesm and he winced. He could imagine what that was like. High Command didn’t waste time. And they liked to yell.

The Council looked outraged. Jeiss smacked the desk with his claws.

“They went over our heads? This is a matter for the city, not the army! The City Watch—”

“Answers to the army in military matters. Which this is. Senior Guardsman—I mean, Councilmember Jeiss—our [High Strategist] made it clear that Wistram is threatening to cut off a number of services! Including maintaining the very walls keeping our city from being destroyed during the spring rains!”

And then there was silence. Lism looked to his left and right. Alonna met his gaze, palely, and nodded. The hair on Krshia’s neck was standing up. She looked at Zevara.

“They would do that? They said that?”

“Not in so many words. But the future cooperation with Liscor and so on depend on their team being released. High Command gave me an order. I’m carrying it out because I don’t feel like trying Wistram on the matter of the city’s security over one group of [Mages]. I have their word their team won’t cause more trouble in the city. If they do, I have every intention of arresting them. But—they will be set free.”

Zevara glared around. She looked so frustrated and furious that Olesm felt bad for her. Lism stared at the Watch Captain, and then rounded on the female Drake on his left.

“Alonna, why is your Mage’s Guild working for Wistram? And why in the name of the Ancestors are they putting a bounty on this Pisces person?”

Alonna, who had been silent, drew herself up as everyone looked at her. The Drake [Mage] was flushing slightly, but she kept her voice level as she replied to Lism.

“First of all, we’re Liscor’s guild, but we’re affiliated with Wistram. Every Mage’s Guild is; we can organize ourselves as we want from city to city, but to get information, news, to coordinate a lot of what we do, we have to all go through a central authority. Every Guild does or we’re stuck talking to each other like a long string of…of…”

She clicked her claws, trying to find the words. Elirr raised a paw.

“Gnoll howls?”

Alonna paused.

“I was going to say, a string of beads. Or maybe a cobweb? We need a central guild to coordinate [Message] spells and so forth, is my point. And that’s Wistram. I’m not from Wistram, but my Guild does have to distribute information from the academy. Including this.”

Alonna tapped the bounty sheet. Krshia growled under her breath.

“But this is pure vengeance! And it is a bounty after the fact, yes? Necrophilia? Is this true?”

“Bounties generally have to be verified before they’re put up.”

Jeiss muttered uneasily. Olesm cleared his throat.

“Yes. However, Councilmember Jeiss, the group that usually does the verification is…”

“Wistram.”

Lism finished the sentence flatly. He was catching on. The Council looked at each other. After a moment, Elirr growled.

“This is disgusting, no? I do not know this Pisces’ past, but he fought with Ceria Springwalker against the Raskghar. And against Skinner and the moths!”

“Their team was responsible for the dungeon—”

“That wasn’t their fault! Don’t you dare, Lism.”

To Olesm’s surprise, it wasn’t Krshia who interrupted, but Alonna. She glared at Lism and he subsided. He looked at Zevara.

“This is intimidation, Watch Captain. Intimidation, bypassing Liscor’s laws—and I’ll give you besmirching this Pisces’ name. Even if it’s with the truth. This is unacceptable. Why are we allowing it?”

He looked from Alonna to Zevara. The [Mage] shook her head, looking frustrated.

“Aside from the fact that they have High Command’s earholes, Lism? Let me put it to you this way. I could refuse to distribute the bounty, just like Watch Captain Zevara could refuse to release the Wistram [Mages]. And if we do, one of the things Wistram can do is direct other Mage’s Guilds to ignore Liscor’s guild.”

A pause. Raekea blinked.

“By ignore…”

“I mean, we can’t communicate with a Mage’s Guild anywhere else. Or our [Messages] get shoved to the bottom of the piles, delivered last.”

“They can’t do that! Can they?”

“Let’s just say that there are nations in which the Mage’s Guild works well and places where they don’t. Wistram’s autonomous, but they have their demands.”

Everyone digested this. Lism’s tail was smacking his chair legs. He stood up, glaring around the conference room.

“First Tiqr, now this. Does anyone else feel like Wistram’s got too much influence? I never thought of it before, but—”

He slapped the table, glaring.

“This is exactly what I’m talking about when I talk about non-Liscorian interference! Liscor has to bow to these jumped-up [Mages]? After they assaulted one of our citizens in our city and started a fight in city limits?”

“Generally, Wistram’s been seen as a positive force worldwide, Uncle. Stabilizing. And just.”

Olesm murmured. Lism gave him an incredulous look. Olesm shrugged.

“I’m not trying to defend them. But I’d like to point out that aside from the threat—which wasn’t communicated to you directly, was it, Watch Captain Zevara?”

“No. High Command didn’t mince words, however.”

Zevara folded her arms. Olesm nodded.

“Then, Wistram can justify itself by claiming that Pisces is a criminal. A murderer, or at least, responsible for a number of crimes. Where they erred was in attacking Liscor’s citizens and going after the rest of his team. But again, they’re using Liscor’s laws against us. They did pay our fines. Instantly. That’s three thousand gold pieces.”

Elirr was sipping from a cup. He choked on his drink. Lism’s head snapped around.

“Say what? You fined them how much, Watch Captain?”

“Captain, misuse of magic and assault plus attack spells and assault on a team would still only be—”

Jeiss was counting up the fine in his own head. Zevara looked a bit embarrassed.

“I levied an appropriate fine for emotional distress and the use of Watch assets, like an attack spell from the walls. They…paid it. Instantly.”

“Three thousand gold pieces?”

“It’s nothing to them. They could have paid ten times that and never blinked.”

Alonna muttered. Krshia saw Lism’s eyes focus.

“Well, in that case—”

He paused and gritted his teeth.

“—Do we have a choice here, Watch Captain Zevara?”

“No sir. I’m simply reporting my actions to the Council.”

Zevara gave Lism an unhappy look. Krshia broke in, looking around.

“Watch Captain Zevara levied a heavy fine, Councilmembers. Wistram paid it without blinking, yes? And all this pressure—does it not bother all of us that they are so willing to manipulate the law for their ends?”

“But what do we do? If there was even a hint they’d refuse to maintain the spells on our walls—damn. Damn, damn, damn—”

Lism began shredding the parchment in front of him. Raekea growled nervously.

“So what is to be done? If this team is free, will they not continue attacking this team?”

“Not in my city. They’ll be under watch, I promise you that, Councilmembers. But I can’t extend my jurisdiction outside of Liscor. Also, none of these adventurers are Liscor’s citizens. And two—at least one of them have committed crimes in other cities, albeit Human ones.”

Watch Captain Zevara looked around. Jeiss looked sick.

“So we get to watch them strut around, Captain Zevara?”

“I don’t like it either, Jeiss. But it seems like that’s what we’re being told.”

Lism’s eyes flashed. He looked around at the Council. Krshia, Elirr, Raekea, Alonna, Jeiss, Olesm, all met his eyes. Zevara was staring down at the floor. Lism’s tail lashed—and then grew still.

“Okay. We let the Wistram [Mages] do what they want. If they keep to our laws, we’ll let this team, the Horns of Hammerad, deal with this mess themselves. We don’t interfere. And maybe we hope that crazy Human makes their heads explode. But Liscor will take Wistram’s money and tuck our tails.”

Everyone stared at him. Krshia opened her mouth and Lism glared at her.

“We’ve been got, Silverfang. I know when to walk away. This is like a Level 50 [Merchant] holding us over a barrel with a bunch of [Thugs] at his back. You want to try another deal?”

She closed her mouth and shook her head after a moment.

“No. No, I agree with that.”

“Good.”

Lism looked around steadily. He raised a claw.

“In that case, I motion to allow Watch Captain Zevara to go back and make whatever preparations she needs. By all means, impress upon Wistram’s team the severity of the laws, Watch Captain. And put them under watch.”

Zevara nodded. She blinked at Lism, and then saluted.

“Councilmembers, thank you for your time.”

Olesm held open the door as she strode out, back towards the Watch House. He stared at Lism. Everyone did. The Drake [Shopkeeper] was too calm. Lism nodded as he carefully arranged the bits of parchment. Then he looked up.

“Well, onto new business. We can put the gold to good use. The Bloodfields project is underway, and I understand the Adventurer’s Guild is already preparing for renovations. I do hope Miss Selys will be well after her incident. And that her grandmother doesn’t try to kill the Wistram team. That would be a crime. Perhaps we should send someone to inform her tactfully of what’s happened?”

“Dead gods, that’s a good point. She’ll murder them. We should stop that.”

Jeiss looked wistful. Lism nodded impatiently.

“But that would be a crime, Jeiss. How shall we do it?”

Krshia was studying Lism. She smiled.

“Send…yes, send our [Negotiator]. Teliv.”

Olesm winced. He felt bad for his friend. Elirr thoughtfully stroked his chin.

“With wine. Or something stronger, yes? Wistram’s fine can pay for that. And give her a cat. She cannot run with a cat. Or dogs. She likes dogs more. Teliv, he can stop at my shop for a puppy or a few for the telling. I have a litter.”

He glanced around at everyone’s expression.

“What? She does.”

Lism nodded. He looked at Olesm, still cool as a [Cryomancer].

“See to it, nephew? Now, onto new business. I motion to send a [Message]—damn. No. Send a City Runner—no, send Hawk to Fissival. With a direct message for the Draconae Scholarium.”

The Councilmembers glanced at him. Olesm looked up as he jotted down notes. Raekea frowned.

“What for?”

Lism’s eyes glinted.

“To ask about having their college replace Wistram’s services, of course. And while we’re at it, Alonna, can we send a covert [Message]—damn, or do we have to use City Runners for all this? Can we ask about if anyone else has had issues with Wistram? I’d put forwards a motion to cosign Watch Captain Zevara’s complaint and make it public. Send it around. In fact, is any other nation or city having our issues? We should open a discussion.”



—-



Zevara left the politics of the Council behind. She stalked through the streets of Liscor, furious. So angry she couldn’t bear it. But she moved quickly, to give vent to her emotions, but also because she knew Wistram’s team would be in the same building as Erin Solstice and the team they’d tried to kidnap.

In retrospect, that had been a stupid decision, but Zevara needed to explain herself. And she felt as embarrassed, as wrong as she ever had been. But that was politics. It overruled what was right and decent. It wasn’t something Zevara thought should be part of the Watch. So she strode back to the Watch barracks.

As it happened, Wistram’s team had already been released from jail. And Erin Solstice, her friends, and the Horns of Hammerad had likewise been summoned. Someone was already screaming as Zevara pushed into the Watch barracks.

It wasn’t Erin or the Horns. They were being kept in Zevara’s office. The Wistram team was on the ground floor. And it was Selys Shivertail who’d found them.

“You filthy eggsucking Creler sacks! You monstrous, disgusting—let go of me! I’ll kill them!”

The Drake was fighting the Gnoll [Guardsman] holding her. Montressa, Palt, Isceil, Ulinde, and Beza were all watching the Drake warily as she fought to swing at them. Selys was shouting, her voice raw, furious. But she was crying too. Zevara stopped for a moment.

“How dare you. How dare—why are they free? I want them executed! I want them tossed in the cells! You—”

She went for something at her side. An expensive bag of holding. Zevara saw Selys draw something out.

“Wand!”

The Wistram team reacted in instant alarm as Selys tried to aim it at Palt. Montressa raised her staff and the City Watch instantly aimed their bows at her. She froze and the Gnoll holding Selys grabbed at her arm.

“Don’t, Miss Selys—”

“Gotcha!”

Relc yanked Selys’ arm up. She struggled, but the Drake held her—surprisingly gently. He pulled Selys back.

“Hey, Selys. No casting spells.”

“Let go of me, Relc—let go—”

“Come on. Let’s go upstairs. Erin’s there. Oh, hey, Captain Z.”

Relc paused as he saw Zevara. The Watch Captain saw Selys whirl.

“Zevara? Why are—”

“Miss Selys.”

Zevara nodded at her awkwardly. She studied the Wistram [Mages]. They were standing still, surrounded by a bunch of hostile [Guards]. But they didn’t look…nervous. Zevara eyed all five. The Drake looked like simmering fury, as did the Minotaur.

The Human—Montressa du Valeross? A [Lady], then. She looked caught between shock and fear and anger. The Selphid was shivering. She was wearing—Zevara recoiled slightly—a rather decayed Human body. A bad one, too. Whoever the Human had been, he’d been on the south side of unfit and rather unpleasant to look at. Cheap Selphid body. But the Selphid was still shaking.

As for the Centaur, he was smoking something. Zevara stared at it and inhaled the distinctive smell of a narcotic, which Liscor generally defined as anything you could smoke. The Centaur noticed Zevara’s stare and hurriedly snatched the spliff from his lips.

“Zevara?”

Selys was staring at Watch Captain Zevara. The Drake turned to her.

“Miss Selys. I apologize for the distress you’ve suffered. I want you to know that I am personally keeping an eye on these…[Mages], and they will be arrested and dealt with should they commit another misstep in Liscor. They have been fined and some of that money will go to you.”

“What? But they’re here—”

Zevara couldn’t meet Selys’ eyes. She saw the Drake smirk out of the corner of her vision. She felt the urge to turn her head and cough a fireball. She spoke slowly.

“This team is being…released.”

“What? You can’t do that! That’s not right! They cast a spell on me! I had to watch them beat Pisces! And I couldn’t do a thing! I didn’t even care! How dare you! That’s not right! Zevara! You can’t—”

Selys began to struggle and Relc and the Gnoll gently grabbed her. The Watch Captain looked at Relc. For once, he did all she could ask of him.

“Alright, Selys. Let’s go upstairs. Come on. I know—I know, I wanna blast them too, but—come on. Geils, help me get her up—”

They practically carried Selys upstairs. She was still screaming curses. At Zevara now. The Watch Captain watched her go, and then she turned.

The [Mages] were watching her. The Drake was still smirking. The Centaur kicked him and he stopped, but the entire team—yes, not nervous at all. They were angry or upset, but not at her. They knew they were going free. Zevara gritted her teeth. She strode forwards.

“You. Wistram [Mages]. Your fines have been paid. You’ll be…free to go. But mark my words. If you break even the smallest rule in Liscor, I will arrest you and put you straight back in prison!”

The [Guards] stirred uneasily and looked at Zevara. She glared at the [Mages]. They didn’t look surprised. Montressa bowed slightly. She nearly smiled, but she didn’t quite manage to complete the expression.

“Watch Captain, allow us to apologize profusely for the—the misunderstanding that took place earlier today. I’m deeply pleased that Wistram was able to smooth over this incident—”

“Incident? We were attacked! We should be pressing charges—”

Isceil began, incensed, but the others shushed him. Zevara was twitching. Montressa smiled, insincerely. Her grip was tight on the staff.

“—We will be pressing no charges, of course. But—has Wistram spoken with your High Command regarding the situation around Pisces Jealnet? He is a fugitive. With a bounty at this moment.”

Zevara just stared at the young woman.

“How do you know that?”

“We are in communication with Wistram—”

“You put the bounty on his head?”

Montressa hesitated.

“Wistram monitors its teams closely. We are able to correspond regarding issues. Pisces Jealnet is a wanted criminal—”

She shut up as Zevara raised a claw. The Watch Captain spoke slowly.

“The only thing your academy persuaded me to do was let you go. As far as I’m concerned, you are all first-time offenders whose fines were paid. If you break a law in my city, I will arrest you. And if you cast any spells like you did this evening, I will order my [Guards] to use lethal force!”

Zevara saw Isceil open his mouth and pointed at him. Smoke was fuming from her maw, but she kept on going.

“Secondly, I do not accept Wistram’s damn bounty on Pisces Jealnet or any of the allegations against the Horns of Hammerad! If you attack them anywhere within the city or so much as waylay them, I will arrest you! Is that clear?”

“That’s not right!”

The Minotaur burst out. She was taller than anyone else in the room and she reminded Zevara too much of Calruz. Well—there were a number of differences. For one thing, Calruz was honorable. Zevara spun on her.

“This is not a debate! If you lay so much as a claw on Pisces Jealnet or his team, or anyone else in the city, you will be arrested, regardless of what the academy can do! Is that clear?”

“He’s a murderer and a criminal. Do you even know who you’re sheltering?”

Montressa stared at Zevara. Her face was pale; she was unaccustomed to being shouted at. Zevara looked past her dismissively.

“I’ve reviewed his case and interviewed a witness to the actual event. Miss Springwalker swears under truth spell that Pisces J—that the accident in question was truly an accident and not homicide. Since he has paid off his crimes in Liscor, he is protected by our laws. If you attempt to arrest him within the city limits, I will be forced to jail you for unlawful impersonation of the City Watch.”

“But he’s committed other crimes!”

Isceil pointed that out hotly. Zevara looked at him.

“And? He’s paid off his bounty in Liscor.”

“But Wistram has a right to detain international criminals! We are accorded that right in almost every nation in the world!”

Montressa cried out furiously. Zevara looked at her, and then inhaled. Every [Guard] in the room, Drake and Gnoll, were already covering their ears.

“In that case, Wistram should have consulted with Liscor’s City Watch before they attempted to arrest someone!”

The Wistram [Mages] stared at Zevara. She exhaled smoke.

“You have no rights here. I do not recognize Wistram’s authority in my city. So. You’re free to go because Wistram Academy has insisted. But cast a single enchantment on someone—attack anyone—loiter in one square for too long, and you will be arrested. Everyone in or around the city is under my—the Watch’s protection, citizen or not.”

“But—”

This time Montressa felt Ulinde and Palt both nudge her and fell quiet. Zevara was giving her a happy, bright smile that was triggering a few [Dangersenses] in the room. Even Montressa could sense when it was a bad time to speak. Zevara waited. Then she purred at the group of Wistram [Mages].

“For your information, The Wandering Inn is considered part of Liscor. You and your team are free, Lady Montressa, but in the interest of time, I will be debriefing your victims upstairs. After that, you will all be present to make clear the issue is resolved, and then you will be escorted out of my sight. Thank you for your time, and I hope you have a wonderful time in Liscor.”

She turned, still vibrating with fury. Zevara began to stalk towards the stairs. Palt looked at Montressa and she gripped her staff so hard her knuckles turned white. Her friends were looking at her. Montressa was frustrated, furious—almost as much as Zevara was, but for different reasons. This wasn’t right! This wasn’t fair!

And then she was afraid. She looked at Beza. Upstairs. She could feel him there, a surge of death magic. The Minotauress gripped her shoulder and squeezed it.

Everyone was silent as Zevara conferred with an officer and began to walk upstairs. Montressa stared at the Oldblood Drake’s back. What was wrong with her? What was—she turned her head as Isceil muttered under his breath.

“Stupid, inbred failure of an Oldblood! Can’t even breathe fire, that incompetent, female—”

Palt slapped a hand over his mouth too late. Zevara stopped on the stairs. She turned her head and Montressa saw her look at Isceil. The [Oldblood Magus] saw Zevara inhale and Montressa raised a shield—



—-



Something was burning downstairs. It smelled like smoke. When Erin Solstice, the Horns of Hammerad, Selys, the Halfseekers, and Relc all came back downstairs, following Zevara, they saw the scorched floorboards. The [Guards], cleaning up a few black marks on the walls. Klbkch, standing with two hands on his sword hilts.

And the [Mages]. All five of them. Erin felt a clenching in her stomach, even though Zevara had told her why they were free. She’d told them twenty minutes ago. Upstairs.

There had been some shouting. A lot of it, actually. People had taken turns, Erin included, but Zevara had outshouted them all. The Wistram team was being released and that was that. Outrage over what they’d done, to the Horns, to Pisces especially, apparently it didn’t matter.

Here they stood. Erin’s hands clenched instinctively. They had no right to stare at the people coming down so…so self-righteously. As if they were the victims, or the ones in the right. Erin saw Klbkch straighten.

“Watch Captain.”

“Senior Guardsman Klbkch. You just arrived?”

“I apologize for the delay. I had to see to an incident in the Hives. Facestealer.”

Erin felt a chill. Zevara paused.

“Your message mentioned it. Tell me later. Have the criminals given you any trouble?”

“No, Watch Captain.”

Klbkch’s voice was cool. Erin didn’t miss the way the [Mages] stared at him. The Drake was pursing his lips as if to spit, but one look at Zevara and he swallowed instead. And despite Klbkch being Antinium, perhaps he was the only one who could have kept order. The other [Guards] were looking hostile. But Klbkch was calm. He noted the people trooping down the stairs.

“Will we be releasing the criminals, Watch Captain?”

“Not yet.”

Zevara folded her arms. She was looking upstairs. The Halfseekers and Relc were coming down behind Erin. Ulinde flinched as Seborn stared at him. Jelaqua wasn’t even looking her way. Moore, even Moore, was staring at Montressa. The [Aegiscaster] was flushing, but everyone was waiting for the last team to come down the stairs. Zevara spoke slowly.

“I’ve made the situation clear to both teams. But I want to be sure my orders are understood. Anyone who breaks the law in my city will be arrested. So. These two teams will say whatever they have to say. If they feel like breaking my laws, we’ll find out.”

Klbkch nodded.

“Understood, Watch Captain. Guards—fall back. Ranged weapons to that side of the room. Spread out here, here—you eight, return to your duty or sign out. In case of mass-attack spells, fall back and take cover. Relc and I will deal with any eventuality. Aim for the Drake and Centaur first.”

The Wistram [Mages] stared at him as the Antinium calmly motioned to the Watch. With tight grins, some of them dispersed while others took up more tactical positions. Palt paled and Isceil stared at Klbkch. Relc walked over.

“Hey Klb, you missed a hell of a fight.”

“As did you. I believe my opponent was decidedly more dangerous. Relc, how was your day?”

“Well, I got to act. It was all part of Erin’s plan. And I stabbed a few stupid [Mages], but I didn’t get to kill any—psst! Erin! Over here!”

The two Senior Guardsman stood against one wall and chatted. Erin walked over to them, and Klbkch smiled at her.

“Erin. It has been a while.”

“Hi, Klbkch. Yeah. It’s been a heck of a day—”

The Wistram [Mages] stared at the trio, nonplussed. Zevara almost smiled for a moment, but the conversation between the three was background noise. She looked up as the four adventurers came down the stairs, slowly.

The Horns of Hammerad. They were all on their feet. All awake. Night had fallen since they’d been freed from the Silent Box. And their wounds—

Well, they were all whole. Yvlon’s arm had been corrected, Ceria and Ksmvr were healed and Pisces—

He looked fine. Fine, whole. But he was pale. And he came behind his companions. He looked weighed down. As he raised his head though, Erin saw his eyes. And she paused as she leaned on Ksmvr’s shoulder. She shivered.

She had never seen him look like that. Not even at the start. But Erin knew that look. She had seen it in a mirror. Pisces stared down at the Wistram [Mages], and Erin knew he was thinking of how to kill each one exactly.

The [Mages] reacted to the Horns. The Minotaur stared at Ceria, and so did Palt, frowning at Ceria. The half-Elf’s expression was still, but she walked towards Montressa and the others slowly. And she never looked away from her old friend. But then all eyes swung towards Pisces and they stared at him with hostility. Hatred. Rage.

But Montressa froze. Erin turned towards her and she saw the young woman shudder. Erin frowned. But then Ceria spoke.

“Mons. It’s been a long time.”

The young woman’s face went white. Montressa du Valeross looked at Ceria. And then color returned to her face. She glared at Ceria.

“How dare you call me that? How dare—”

She gripped her staff and everyone tensed. Beza and Ulinde grabbed Montressa from either side.

“Montressa—”

The [Aegiscaster] caught herself. She stared at Ceria. The half-Elf was shaking. She pointed her bone hand at Montressa. Looking at her and the other [Mages].

“Is that really you? After all this time. I—we met for all of five seconds and you put me in a Silent Box? How could you? We were friends! You attacked us! You nearly killed Pisces—”

She pointed at Pisces. Montressa’s face went paler as her eyes flicked to him, and then returned to Ceria. She interrupted, her voice harsh, fingers tightening on the staff.

“After all this time how dare I? How dare you? I knew what you’d done, but I had to see it to believe it!”

She pointed at Ceria, her voice rising with rage.

“How dare you join him? How dare you do it after all he did? He killed Calvaron! He’s responsible for everything! He used your master’s body to unleash the things that killed—how dare you? You’re as evil as he is.”

Again, she looked at Pisces. He didn’t move at the accusation that made Ceria turn white. He was just staring at the ground, silent, pale. Erin worried for him. Ceria pointed at Pisces, her voice trembling.

“I’ve changed! And so has he! That was years ago, when we were young! It was an accident!”

“Accident?”

The hiss came from Isceil, but Beza put an arm out. Montressa and Ceria were alone in the world as they argued. She glared at Ceria.

“He killed our friends. Because of him Calvaron’s dead! Beatrice and I never forgot, but you? You leave, and then you decide to join up with him—to pretend to be a Wistram [Mage] when you didn’t even pass your half of the classes—[Mage] of Wistram? You liar!”

Ceria jerked, flinching.

“I earned the right to call myself that!”

“You’re no graduate. You have no right!”

“I have every right! Wistram’s full of cowards who won’t try the test! Illphres knew what the true path to magic was! If the Archmages had any courage, they would have gone with her! Instead, you all hide and pretend you’re not being ruled by Cognita!”

“Better than a monster who uses dead bodies to kill all of his friends and the traitor who chose him over everyone else!”

Montressa’s voice rose until all the Gnolls were covering their ears. Ceria was no less loud. They were screaming at each other. Erin stared at Ceria. Wistram. She knew the story. Relc just looked at Klbkch and the Antinium shrugged. To them it was funny. To Ceria—

“You’re attacking us for leaving? Attacking Pisces? We were allowed to leave! Wistram let both of us go because it was an accident! Why didn’t you throw us both in prison then? I didn’t do anything? I just told that idiotic group of [Mages] with their wands up their asses how I felt!”

“You’re helping the same bastard who killed over three dozen [Mages]! Why shouldn’t we arrest him?”

“He was exiled! The trial finished! You can’t overturn it!”

Ceria shot back at Isceil. Beza folded her arms and retorted.

“That was because a non-[Mage] interfered with the Council’s deliberations.”

“Cognita vouched for him. She asked the Council not to execute Pisces and they did! They can’t change their minds!”

The Wistram team hesitated. Montressa was biting her lip, eyes furious. Ceria was no less mad. Isceil and Beza exchanged a glance; Palt was just watching and chewing on something—Ulinde was still quaking, under the gaze of the Halfseekers. Isceil retorted at last.

“Whatever the case, you two aren’t [Mages] of Wistram and you’ve claimed to be. For that alone, you’ve committed a crime.”

The half-Elf’s eyes blazed. She opened her mouth, and then grew strangely calm. She looked at Isceil.

“Tell that to Cognita. I dare you. She gave us that right. Go on, tell her. Does she know you’re saying that?”

The Drake paled, for reasons only a few people in the room understood. Ceria was looking victorious when Palt raised a hand. As if he were in class, he raised his voice, breaking into the argument.

“Excuse me. I’d like to clarify something. The reasoning Wistram has for going after Pisces Jealnet isn’t due to his expulsion. It’s what he’s done after he left. He’s committed petty crimes, stolen, used Wistram’s name, and broken laws across Izril. His subsequent crimes have put Wistram in a bad light. Anyone claiming to be a graduate of Wistram who behaves as he’s done will be dealt with.”

His calm tone silenced Ceria for a moment. Then she rounded on Montressa.

“That’s your excuse? Because you’re too afraid of Cognita to overturn the exile?”

“We’re not afraid of—”

Beza began to retort, but Zevara bellowed.

“Enough!”

The Watch Captain was louder than all the [Mages]. They looked at her. Ceria and Montressa were panting. Zevara shook her head as Beilmark, standing beside her, took her paws off her ears with a sigh. Zevara glared around at both Ceria and the Wistram [Mages].

“Clearly, you all have your own history. I’m not being paid to listen to it. Understand this. Whatever your…issues, you will obey Liscor’s laws. You two can argue for all I care—when it’s not night and in public! But you’ll do no more or I’ll feed you to Rock Crabs. Got it?”

Both Ceria and Montressa looked at Zevara. Ceria hesitated, but then jerked her head away. Montressa nodded. Her eyes darted at Pisces. He was still looking at the ground. Yvlon and Ksmvr, who’d been silent, looked up. Yvlon reached for her sword hilt.

“So we have to take that? They attacked us, Watch Captain Zevara. What did we do?”

Zevara glanced at Yvlon.

“By right, Miss Byres, you’re entitled to part of the fine. It will go to you, and to Mister…to Ksmvr. As well as Miss Selys. But I cannot allow you to seek vengeance.”

Ksmvr tilted his head.

“So, Wistram is able to pay to subvert the law? This is an intriguing piece of information. I did not know Drake cities had such a loophole in their legal system.”

“We don’t—”

One of the [Guards] began, outraged, as Zevara’s face flushed. Klbkch held up a hand.

“Ksmvr. Silence.”

The Antinium quivered and Yvlon gave Klbkch a dark look. Zevara shot Klbkch a mixed glance and turned.

“I have been ordered to drop the Wistram case. I will enforce the law as I see fit, which does not allow for bloody feuds! Miss Selys, your part of the fine—”

“I don’t want it. And I don’t want them in Liscor.”

Selys pointed a trembling claw at the Wistram team. A few of them had the grace to look ashamed. Too few by half. One of them was Palt, ironically. Erin narrowed her eyes as Zevara…fidgeted. She looked like she hated everything about her life right now.

“Unfortunately, Miss Selys, I must give them a second chance. Which means Lady du Valeross and her companions are allowed to reside in Liscor. However, if they cast another illicit spell or threaten one of Liscor’s citizens, they will be instantly expelled from Liscor. I’m sorry. That’s all I can do.”

“I get it.”

Selys looked at Zevara with disgust and turned away. She looked at Pisces and then around. She met Erin’s eyes.

“I—I need to go. I can’t stay here. They’re disgusting. I have to go. I have to—”

She was out the door, stumbling. Zevara glanced around.

“You two. Escort Miss Shivertail wherever she needs to go.”

Two [Guards] left. Zevara looked around.

“If that’s all—”

“Just like that? What about our teams? What about Erin’s inn?”

Jelaqua broke into the conversation, furious. She was wearing a Drake body rather than her Raskghar one, but a big one. Zevara turned to face her.

“A portion of the bounty—”

“You can’t just pay this away! Those little punks attacked my team! They’re not walking off when I’m through with them!”

“You will contain yourself, Miss Ivirith. No one is above the law—”

“Except for Wistram, apparently! This isn’t right! I want—”

“I challenge you to a duel.”

The voice came from behind Zevara. She turned. Jelaqua looked past her. Pisces had moved at last. He was still pale. But as he raised his head, Erin saw the same look in his eyes. Montressa moved back a step. Pisces stared past her. He was shaking as he pointed a finger at Isceil.

“I challenge you to a duel. Isceil, is it?”

The Drake blinked. Zevara spun.

“Pisces—”

She stopped as he looked up. The [Necromancer] stood alone in the Watch barracks. His team was with him, but the way Pisces held himself was aloof. His face was pale. He spoke through bloodless lips, addressing Zevara, the [Mages].

“I have been attacked. Kidnapped. In Liscor, unprovoked. False allegations have been laid against me. And those who committed the crimes walk free because Wistram Academy demands it be so. There is no justice in that. I demand satisfaction. A legal duel.”

Zevara hesitated and stepped back.

“False? We only told the world what you really are. And why should I accept a duel from a filthy [Necromancer]? You’re not worth scraping my boots on.”

Isceil sneered at Pisces, but his actions betrayed his words. He reached for the wand at his side. Palt glanced at Isceil. Montressa was hesitating, but Pisces looked right past her. And Pisces smiled with that terrible look in his eyes.

“A coward who bested you when I was fighting all of your pathetic team. Come, Drake. Let us have a proper duel. One to the death. Seen and witnessed by all present. Come, coward. Or is the ‘best duelist in all of Fissival’ too afraid to battle an exile?”

Isceil’s scales flushed. He drew his wand.

“You fleshbag bastard. I’ll—”

“Don’t!”

The word came from Ulinde. She—no, he grabbed Isceil’s arm. The older man wrestled with the Drake—his body was an incongruous sight among the younger [Mages].

“Let go of me! I’ll kill him! I’ll settle this now—”

Isceil fought her, cursing, but Montressa whirled as well.

“Don’t be an idiot, Isceil! He has that [Shatterbolt] ring and he’s too quick!”

“I’ll take off my magical items. Come and fight me, you coward. Or you, Minotaur. Or are you only able to do battle when you outnumber me five-to-one?”

Pisces’ voice was taunting. Beza stiffened and hesitated. Palt muttered something to her and her eyes flashed. She looked towards Zevara.

“Are duels legal in Liscor?”

“They’re old, but traditional. I’d allow it.”

Zevara was breathing hard. She looked at Pisces. He was coiled up. Erin saw another figure move.

“In that case, me too. A duel to the death. I challenge any one of you.”

Seborn stepped forwards. The Drowned Man looked ready to kill. Jelaqua and Moore stirred, but the half-Giant didn’t move as Jelaqua shook her head at him. They didn’t stop their friend.

Ironically, Seborn’s words made Isceil pause and Beza check herself. They stared at him, and then at Pisces. The Wistram [Mages] hesitated. Erin had to admit, they weren’t complete idiots. Just almost.

“I can take him—”

Isceil looked between Seborn and Pisces. Beza gritted her teeth. Montressa was whispering and Erin clearly heard one bit from Palt, who was doing the same.

“—Gold-rank [Rogue]. Risking your life on a duel—”

The [Mages] conferred, but Erin saw the answer before Isceil looked up. He tried to scoff as he turned away from Pisces.

“I don’t need to sully myself by dueling a worthless [Necromancer].”

“Nor do you deserve a fair duel. I refuse. I have no quarrel with you either, Drowned Man. Our skirmish was accidental.”

Beza addressed Seborn, her cheeks flushed. The [Rogue]’s eyes narrowed.

“Coward.”

Beza’s head jerked and Isceil flushed. But they turned away. Pisces stared at their backs. He was shaking. Yvlon tried to put a hand on his shoulder, but he knocked her arm away. Ksmvr looked at Ceria. She was silent. No one had seen Pisces this furious. His voice was low, piercing.

“I’ve known Lizardpeople with more courage. No wonder Fissival let you leave. And no wonder the House of Minos let such a coward flee their isles!”

Relc whistled. Some of the [Guards] murmured. The Minotaur and Drake whirled as they walked towards the door. They went for Pisces.

“No! I said stop!”

Montressa held up a hand and a barrier shimmered forth, blocking Beza’s charge. She and Isceil hit the barrier that appeared in the air. Not a [Force Wall], all shimmering air, but something amethyst, but thinner. Erin stared at it. It was strong, though; Beza slammed a fist, creating ripples and shouted.

“Let me take him, Montressa!”

“Don’t let him provoke you! Walk away, Beza! That is an order!”

From the side, Relc was nudging Klbkch. The Antinium calmly nodded as he stomped on Relc’s foot.

“Stop poking me, Relc. I see. Ah, ward spells. Your difficulty in apprehending them makes sense.”

“Right? Could you take her out, Klb? I’m definitely going for her first next time.”

The Senior Guardsman shrugged.

“Perhaps. I have some experience in the matter. Tactically….”

Their conversation went unheard amidst the shouting from the [Mages]. Montressa pushed Beza back, and Ulinde had Isceil’s arms as Palt blocked the others. Pisces was watching them. Montressa shoved at Beza and the Minotauress grudgingly stepped back. At last she looked up and met Pisces’ eyes.

She stopped. Her face paled. If she had blazed at Ceria, suddenly she was cold. She stared at Pisces and stepped through her own barrier. He looked at her. There was no nostalgia there. Just hate. And Erin saw that flicker of fear on Montressa’s face again before she pushed it down.

“Montressa du Valeross. It has been a long time.”

Pisces’ voice still quivered. Montressa looked at him.

“You monster. I can’t believe you have the nerve to walk around after what you did. Let alone call yourself an adventurer.”

“Me? As opposed to Wistram, high and mighty and beyond contempt? There is more blood on the Academy’s hands than I could ever spill.”

Pisces’ eyes narrowed. Montressa hesitated. He was better than Ceria.

“Wistram never murdered my friends. You killed Calvaron. With your petty jealousy. By defiling the bodies of the others! You—you disgusting worm. Wistram never should have taken you in. We should have never believed your lies. But that’s what you and all your kind are. Monsters. If you had any decency, you’d surrender rather than drag everyone down with you. But that’s what you always do, isn’t it?”

The young man’s face went pale. Montressa was good at using words like weapons too. He stared at her. And Erin saw him snap.

“Calvaron? That pathetic fool? I barely noticed when he died. And if he perished, it only proves what a worthless mage he was!”

“Pisces!”

Ceria shouted. Montressa stumbled back. She’d gone dead white. Erin had thought she couldn’t hate Pisces any more. But he wasn’t done.

“You call me a monster. You want to see a monster? I will show you one.”

He advanced. And his voice was growing deeper. He was growing taller. His features were distorting, his face rotting. Erin saw the [Guards] react, raising their weapons, but Palt held up a hand.

“Illusion spell!”

“Stop that! That’s illegal under Liscor’s laws! Isn’t it?”

Beza barked. Pisces was looming, and shadows were filling the barracks. Erin remembered this spell. A noxious, rotting scent wafted through the air. Montressa backed up until her back was to the barrier, eyes wide. The Wistram [Mages] lifted their wands, but hesitated, looking towards Zevara. The Watch Captain folded her arms.

“Illusory spells are permitted in public areas of Liscor as well as private ones if the individual owns or has acquired permissions to cast such magics. Public-area illusions are sanctioned if they are not unduly disruptive or provocative. I see no issue, do you, Senior Guardswoman Beilmark?”

She glanced over her shoulder at the Gnoll. Beilmark rubbed at her nose, but then grinned savagely.

“Everyone needs a few undead now and then, Watch Captain.”

“You can’t do that! You—”

Whatever Isceil was shouting was cut off by a sound. It was bestial, no, unearthly. Foreign. Erin saw the looming shape bending over Montressa. It wasn’t Pisces any more. It was a corpse. Some monster, bloated and stretched in death. Rotting flesh. Gaping jaws, flashing through the shadows. Burning eyes. It loomed over Montressa and the smell—she heard several people gagging.

“Really good illusion.”

Relc whispered to Klbkch, covering his face. The Antinium nodded.

“Is this what you want to see?”

Pisces’ voice thundered in the barracks. He reached for Montressa with dripping claws. Blood ran from his sockets. Erin expected Montressa to raise her staff, cast a spell—but the young woman was frozen. She stumbled backwards, through her barrier.

“Stop it. Go away! Stop it!”

“Montressa, it’s only an illusion. Stop this!”

Beza grabbed her friend. Montressa flailed wildly and the Minotauress had to let go. Beza spun and barked at Zevara; the Watch Captain was looking away. Pisces advanced. His claws went through Montressa’s barrier, reaching for her.

“Stop it!”

She shrieked at him, screaming as loudly as she could. Beza and the others were shouting as well, holding Montressa and Palt was waving a hand, trying to dispel the illusion. Relc jumped forwards and jabbed the Centaur in the flank. Palt jerked back and Relc shouted cheerfully.

“You’re not sanctioned! No spells!”

“Enough!”

Beza reached for a scroll. She swung through the illusion, but it was centered on Montressa. She was trying to flee, turning, screaming. Running for the door. The [Guards], and most of the others watching looked satisfied. But Ceria was watching Montressa and Pisces with a horrified look. Erin saw the look on Montressa’s face.

Terror. The young woman stumbled for the door. But clawing hands erupted from the earth. She backed away from the spectral zombies as they reached for her. She turned and Pisces howled at her.

“I will drag you down, Montressa du Valeross. I will show you what a monster I can be.”

“Stop! Please!”

Montressa backed up. She’d forgotten the staff in her hands. She stared at Pisces. The thing opened its maw and bent towards her. And Montressa screamed.

It was a real scream, the kind that wasn’t forced. It was raw, pure, terrified—Erin saw Montressa drop the staff. She raised her hands and a barrier appeared. It knocked back her friends, trying to shield her. Three walls of shining light, gold and white appeared as Montressa sank to the floor.

It enveloped her, a pyramid of magic. She curled up in the center of it. Montressa buried her face in her legs as she drew them to her. And Erin heard her began to cry.

She began to sob, sitting on the ground, curled up in the center of the pyramid-shaped barrier spell. Pisces paused. The illusion stopped and the wailing, snarling sounds halted. Montressa’s friends pounded on the barrier. But the young woman heard nothing. She was crying. Tears ran down her face and she curled up in the middle of the spell, oblivious.

Crying. Like a small child, rocking back and forth, closing her eyes so as not to see. It was no act. Erin looked at Montressa sobbing. And whatever she had been feeling turned suddenly to guilt. She had hurt Pisces. But he was—

She looked at the thing he’d conjured. A nightmare, the undead. It scared her too. For a second the thing hovered there.

Then the illusion spell vanished. Pisces stood in the same place he had been. He stared at Montressa. She didn’t even realize the spell had gone. She was still crying as her friends pressed their hands against the barrier, unable to touch her. Calling out to her.

“Montressa, it’s an illusion. You’re safe!”

Isceil was banging on the barrier. Ulinde was jabbing him wand.

“It’s a spell! We’ll protect you!”

“[Dispel Magic]. [Dispel]—it’s no good. It’s her personal emergency spell.”

Palt looked at Beza. She hammered on the barrier.

“Montressa! Mon—”

She looked up. Slowly, she turned around the room. The Watch, the adventurers—some looked vindictive. Others, like Erin, couldn’t revel. But Pisces was still staring. And he met Beza’s eyes. The Minotauress stared at him and her gaze went past him to his team. Beza looked at Pisces again and spat.

“You monster.”

He didn’t reply. His hands were clenched. Montressa never moved. She just sat there, rocking and crying. Zevara looked at Beilmark, and then at Pisces. And Erin heard the word unspoken.

[Necromancer].

At last, Ceria moved. She looked away from Montressa, at her team.

“Come on. Let’s get out of here.”

Slowly, they walked away. The Halfseekers followed. Erin waited, looking back at Montressa. Then she followed Pisces as he stalked out of the barracks. He ignored his team trying to talk to him.

He didn’t look back once.



—-



Az’kerash, Peril Chandler, the Necromancer who defined all of his class, stood alone. He inhabited his castle filled with undead, his creations, some of them sentient. But he too was alone. He stood in his work room, creating.

As was customary, his thoughts were split. Most were aimed at the thing he was working on. A mass of organs and muscle, twisting, perfecting a motion before being grafted to bone just so. But Az’kerash was also aware of the world, if only tangentially. Part of his mind was keeping alert to worldwide events, points of interest. They were like distant lights on the shores of his mind. If one glowed bright enough, more of his thoughts converged.

They did so now. One of Az’kerash’s thoughts caught a mass-transmission from Wistram. It usually meant an emergency. He absently caught one of the [Messages], intercepting it. It wasn’t hard with the right setup. [Message] spells had never been made for secrecy.

“What is the alert? Some calamity? No.”

Az’kerash frowned. Not a calamity. His mind was assailed by countless words. He parsed a few, absently, and shook his head. Most of his concentration was still on the moving tendons, reattaching themselves, configuring for more strength, more durability.

“A bounty?”

It wasn’t important if it was a bounty. Perhaps some new criminal. The Bloodfeast Raiders adding a new member. If the reward was truly ludicrous—but no, it was miniscule. Not worth his time. Still, it was being sent out across Izril, so Az’kerash absently intoned a spell.

“[Scribe Thoughts].”

A quill and a bit of paper soared towards him from a distant table. The paper flattened itself on the air, as if on a hard surface and the quill began to write at once, needing no inkpot. The quill danced upon the paper, noting the [Message] spell directly from Az’kerash’s mind. Thus, it would remain without the need for Az’kerash to spend thought on immediately.

There. The Necromancer refocused completely on his work. He was building muscle out of raw flesh, literally shaping muscle fiber and stripping his work of useless features like nerves. It was optimization of the body. Complex, even for him. But once perfected, such creations could be duplicated.

The art of creation lay at the heart of necromancy. It was what few grasped. First came simple animation. Then improvisation of the form. Then—the peak of his art—creating something new, something superior to anything life could dream. Az’kerash focused—and then his eyes caught a word on the paper hovering in front of him.

“Ah.”

He stopped. The twisting shape in front of him hovered. The Necromancer’s thoughts refocused. He stared at the bounty poster. He had recognized a name.

Pisces. Where had he—? The Necromancer blinked.

“The young [Necromancer]? A bounty from Wistram?”

He lowered his hands. The paper flew towards him and he took it. He read, and his thoughts converged. Memory began understanding.

Pizza. The undead rat. The Bone Behemoth. And—Az’kerash blinked.

“A bounty. An expelled student from…Wistram? These crimes…what is this?”

He was confused. But only for a moment. At once, Az’kerash began scanning, spreading his thoughts. In the room, a skeletal rat sat up and looked around. But Pisces wasn’t there. Az’kerash frowned.

“Bea.”

A figure jumped. Bea was spying on Az’kerash. She hesitated, and then hurried forwards.

“Master?”

“Something is transpiring in Liscor. Yes, most likely Liscor. Send an inquiry through the Mage’s Guild. Masquerade as Elden Veis. Repeat the inquiry through the local [Information Brokers]. I will make my own investigation. Report back at once.”

“Yes, Master. What am I asking about?”

“This.”

Az’kerash handed her the bounty poster. Bea took it, confused. It was a miniscule bounty. She had seen her master interested in some of the high rewards—he had once ordered her to claim one. But this? She didn’t question though, and rushed off.

It took her thirty minutes to make her inquiries, using the [Message] artifacts to pretend to be a concerned [Merchant] asking about the new bounty. In the meantime, Az’kerash had learned what there was to know.

“A team of [Mages] from Wistram is in Liscor, Master.”

“Yes.”

Az’kerash’s eyes flashed. Bea shuddered. Few things could make her master angry, but a mention of his former home was one. Az’kerash reviewed the information she had brought him, adding it to his own.

“So. This Pisces was once a student at Wistram. He suggested as much, but I assumed he had failed to graduate. But this? He broke into the crypt and was expelled? Nekhret’s bones? Even when I was Archmage, I would not have dreamed to…audacious.”

He was reviewing the information, analyzing it. Pisces’ reason for expulsion lay in his head. Bea saw the Necromancer reacting. Looking…excited.

“Master? Did this [Necromancer] break Wistram’s laws?”

“More than that. He tried to rob an Archmage’s tomb! I would have dreamed of doing the same. If I were still a [Mage] of Wistram, that is. It is simply foolhardy, now. Of course her crypt was warded. But I almost admire the audacity! Nekhret. Yes. Her bones would be…useful. Does he still have them?”

Az’kerash tapped his lips. Bea looked up at him innocently. She knew the answer, but she asked anyways.

“The bones of Archmages are valuable, master?”

She luxuriated in the lessons Az’kerash sometimes gave her. Bea could see Venitra peeking in on her and Az’kerash, looking jealous. The Necromancer smiled absently.

“Yes, Bea. However, they are for now…out of reach. Even were I inclined to raise an army and attempt to assail Wistram, I have little wish to battle Zelkyr’s creations. Cognita would be troublesome, especially with the so-called ‘Archmages’ on her side. Wistram’s ancient defenses are more to be feared than the current generation of [Mages], though. But if this Pisces has Nekhret’s bones still—he did not mention them.”

“He is in trouble.”

Bea observed. Az’kerash paused.

“Yes. Wistram has sent one of their hunter teams after him. I am reviewing—[Aegiscaster]. [Spellscribe]? [Spellslinger]. [Oldblood Magus] and [Illusionist]. An odd mixture. Not suited to simple apprehension. Not the [Spellscribe] or the [Oldblood Magus]. Perhaps simple arrogance. Five, though. They could certainly capture him. But they were detained for breaking Liscor’s laws?”

That amused him greatly. Bea smiled along.

“Will you help him, Master? This Pisces?”

Az’kerash paused. He frowned.

“No. He is not my apprentice. It is not necessary or expedient to aid him, especially given Wistram’s interest in him. I simply wish to know why they sent a bounty on him after the fact. Ah—manipulation. But why—Bea, the bounty.”

The plague zombie woman gave him the paper again, pouting a bit. She was going to hoard it, along with all the other things he touched. She had a collection, along with the rest of the Chosen. Az’kerash studied the paper. And then he focused on more details.

“Necrophilia? Pisces Jealnet. Petty thievery—of course. Of course.”

He cast the paper aside. Bea scuttled after it and snatched it up. But when she looked up, her Master was no longer amused. He stood there, staring at nothing. Somewhere in the white pupils, in his deathless gaze and voice, heat emerged. Az’kerash paced. And now he was angry. More information appeared in his mind and his voice grew thunderous.

“A former friend? Classmates. And this—this is a campaign. Sent to every city across Izril? He will have nowhere to hide. A friend.”

Bea trembled. Az’kerash turned. He stared blindly past her. In the inn, the rat appeared in the common room. He saw Pisces, sitting amid his team. The young man’s face was white. Rage, fury, pain—Az’kerash read it and remembered. He clenched his hands. Then his face smoothed. He waved the image away and stood in the dark workroom.

Alone. But he whispered to Pisces.

“I could have told you that this day would come. See how they turn on you, boy. See how they besmirch your name. It is what they do. They will drag you down, as they do with all who don’t fit in. This is only how it begins. Someday, they will all leave you. Your love, your friends. They will show you who they truly are.”

Az’kerash stood there. And Bea saw the pain on his face. She approached, timidly, and offered the bounty poster. The Necromancer looked at it. And the pain—Bea regretted giving it to him at once. Because she saw actual pain on his face. He bowed his head, touching the parchment upon which Pisces Jealnet’s crime and history had been written in ink. And black flame burned from his fingertips, consuming the parchments and ink, turning to ash.

“I know. They did the same to me. Feor. He was a student when I was stripped of my titles. Is he behind it? Or another of those petty children who play at magic?”

Bea fled as Az’kerash stood there. She couldn’t bear to watch her Master’s face. But she lingered at the entrance of his work room. Venitra glared at Bea. But then they both went back to watching their Master.

For a few seconds—an eternity to the Necromancer, who almost never stopped working—he paused. Then he looked up. He stared at his creation in the air. With an irritated wave, he froze it in place. And then he turned.

“What was the rest of his crimes? Who was he? This Montressa du Valeross. Terandrian. Of course. But what—they have to have records. They haven’t forgotten that much.”

Venitra, and Bea, peeking around the corner of his work room, saw an unusual sight. Az’kerash paced back and forth, his eyes flickering. He had halted work, and now, invisible, they sensed him spreading his awareness elsewhere. Seeking knowledge.

He was pursuing the information by puppet, by magic spell, using old systems of magic to retrieve what he wanted through Mage’s Guild, through anonymous [Message]. It did not take Az’kerash long to find what he sought. He had contacts everywhere and he knew Wistram. The Academy that traded on secrets gave everything Az’kerash wanted. Story and rumor. Fact. The Necromancer pursued it all.

An hour later he was reading. Sitting in his quarters. His Chosen were all there. Peeking at him. Kerash, Bea, Venitra, all were entranced. Like flowers, they hated their master’s sorrow and gloom. They raged with him, felt his pain. But other emotions, those rare flashes of amusement or even joy—they were everything to the undead.

And they saw something unique now. Az’kerash read, entirely focused. They heard a laugh and exchanged glances of wonder.

The Necromancer was reading a transcript. Not of the time when Pisces had been expelled. Az’kerash had already read that and laughed at hearing Cognita’s words. No, now he read an earlier speech a young man had given to the Council, defending his use of [Necromancy].

“You spoke my name in front of them? In front of that petty congregation?”

He laughed. The sound was unfamiliar, and unpracticed coming from him. He had almost forgotten how. But it came out now, unbidden. He let the parchment float in front of him, reading it. Laughing again.

“I wish I had been there! ‘Necromancy is the equal of any other magical school!’ To say that before—my Chosen. Stop hiding and read if you will.”

Az’kerash duplicated the paper with a flick of the hand. His Chosen jumped, but they grabbed at the papers eagerly. Bea read the transcript of Pisces’ speech. His defense of necromancy. Her eyes lit on one passage. What he had said of Az’kerash.

He gazed deeper into the heart of magic than any but the greatest [Archmages] before him. Once, a young man had proclaimed that before the gatekeepers of magic. Bea felt…something rise inside of her. She did not know this young man. But for those words alone, for a smile she had never seen, she loved the one who had said it.

“He called you a monster, Master.”

Venitra had focused on something else. Her grip tightened, tearing the soft paper. Az’kerash shook his head. He stared absently at his copy. And his eyes were faraway. Almost longing.

“He did not belong in Wistram. But where would he have gone? I see it all now. Friends. Well liked. A [Fencer]! Until they knew what he was. Did he copy me? Pisces Jealnet. Where were you a hundred years ago?”

Speechless, his Chosen looked at Az’kerash. He was smiling. Until his attention went back to the common room. Pisces was arguing with his friends. Az’kerash saw his pinched face, his hunched shoulders. Saw rage and helpless fury. Pride, broken and bleeding.

The Necromancer stopped smiling. He bowed his head. And suddenly, he was ancient again. His words bitter.

“They will bring you down, Pisces Jealnet. This is their way. This is why we are few. Fetohep. I. So few others. Fewer still worthy of respect. Who see what necromancy could be.”

He cared about this Pisces. Bea traded wondering looks with Kerash. Venitra was still angry about the thing Pisces had said. But her master saw something in the young man. Az’kerash closed his eyes.

“The Wistram team will not stop. This Montressa du Valeross will hunt him down. Unless he kills her first. And Wistram will never cease. His team—Ceria Springwalker? What did she—”

His eyes flickered.

“Her master. Illphres? A peer of the Siren of Savere. Ice magic. She must have been a permanent resident of the academy. But she dared Cognita’s…I see.”

He looked up.

“Brave. Foolish. But she dared it. And her apprentice left. So a [Mage] with the true heart of Wistram dies and her apprentice is forced to leave! This is what Wistram has become! Zelkyr. Is this what you intended?”

The room shook as Az’kerash stood. His Chosen fled. The Necromancer looked around the room. His fury dissipated in a moment.

“But she and he joined the same team. How…odd. She will turn on him too. They will poison her. But…”

He sank back down.

“A team of Wistram’s [Mages]. Does the academy desire Pisces this greatly? Or perhaps this Montressa has a grudge. Even so, this much effort.”

His brows snapped together.

“They’ve sent more teams. What are they doing? I must investigate this.”

The Necromancer traced a finger in the air, writing a note to himself. It followed him, a glimmering magical thought as he turned his head.

“There is no incentive for me to aid the young [Necromancer]. Not with Wistram there. However.”

He paused.

“Liscor. I wonder. Where is…Ijvani?”

Az’kerash looked around. An old thought resurfaced. Not one he’d bothered committing to note form or pursuing. But now, Az’kerash was reminded.

“Still absent? But Zel Shivertail’s death was months—has she gotten lost? Ijvani.”

He put his fingers to his temples. Across hundreds of miles, his thoughts flew. In a cave, a sulky skeleton sat up. Az’kerash frowned. He spoke crisply.

“Ijvani. Ijvani, why are you sitting in a cave?”

He listened to the babbled response. Bea, creeping back, saw her Master talking. She envied Ijvani, even as she looked at Venitra.

“She’s in trouble.”

Gleefully, the other Chosen nodded. Az’kerash was frowning, a sure sign of his wrath. His voice snapped.

“You—I am not an illusion. What are you holding? Is that…Ijvani, be silent. Good. Now listen to me. You are not to return yet. Remain where you are; I require you to set up a surveillance spell. Carefully. Grimalkin of Pallass among others may detect a lesser spell. Ijvani? Why are there beavers…”



—-



The world moved. In big ways, and small ways. The bounty on Pisces went out across the world. And it was barely a blip in the grand scheme of things. Mage’s Guilds across Izril took note of the bounty, the [Scribes] on duty noting the details, forwarding it to relevant areas, largely unconcerned. Few cared, although some would read the report with disgust. But who would meet this fellow? Few, if any, surely.

It didn’t matter. And yet, it did. To the one the bounty concerned, it mattered greatly. The report went to the Adventurer’s Guild in Liscor. To the Watch. To anyone who wanted to know. It was a poster on the wall of the Mage’s Guild.

It was gleeful, the way they reported it. Pisces Jealnet, son of Padurn Jealnet. Accused of necrophilia, petty thievery—

Erin wanted to tear up the parchment. But she kept reading. The malice, the pure malice in the writing made her put it down after a second. She couldn’t go on. The bounty accused Pisces of necrophilia, theft, petty assault, murder—it made him out to be a criminal. Not even a grand one. But—she looked up and saw him at his table. Reading the same bounty.

What hurt most of all was the name. Jealnet. If you didn’t understand Terandria, or Pisces, it wouldn’t have been so significant. Erin didn’t understand it fully, but Lyonette helped her explain. It was a common name. And the way they wrote of him.

Pisces Jealnet, son of Padurn Jealnet, [Fencer]. Common-born of Terandria; family in service to the House Dultel.

A son of a [Fencer] in the employ of the nobility. Commoner. A nobody. Nobody special. In ink, it tore apart part of Pisces. Erin saw it. Saw it hitting him.

“He could almost pass for nobility. He has some of the styling. He fails in other ways, but I could believe he was a fourth son or something.”

Lyonette murmured as she swept the floor. Erin had reconstructed some of the broken tables and chairs; the rest were waiting for her Skill to recharge. The inn was quiet. Only a few people were there. The Halfseekers, talking quietly, trying to soothe Seborn. A few regulars. The Horns. Mrsha, staring at the Horns.

And the adventurers. They were at the center of silent attention. Everyone in the inn had read the bounty poster. Everyone was not quite watching Pisces. He sat there, at the center of it all.

“He never said his last name. Not ever.”

“Of course not. It would have given him away if you knew anything of Terandria. You could have even placed where he grew up with a few inquiries.”

The [Princess] looked at Pisces. Erin bit her tongue. Did it matter? No. Yes! Pisces loved being enigmatic. He loved pretending to be someone. But this poster laid out his life’s story. It said he was just a petty [Necromancer]. It was wrong. But Wistram had shouted it across all of Izril and put a bounty on Pisces’ head.

It made her hate the Wistram team. But Erin also remembered Montressa weeping. That didn’t dull her anger, but it was something else. Even so.

“Pisces Jealnet.”

It sounded wrong. Pisces was Pisces, not…Pisces Jealnet. In a way, Erin knew that hurt Pisces more than any beating could. His cheeks were stained and he was hunched in his seat. As withdrawn as he had been at the start.

“They can’t do this. A bounty?”

Ceria was exclaiming over the poster. She looked furious. She kept glancing at Pisces. He’d said nothing on the way back to the inn, even up till now. She looked at Yvlon.

“We won’t be able to go anywhere! With a two thousand gold bounty? Every idiot will be going after Pisces.”

“Can’t we pay it off? Not that I want to give those damn [Mages] anything. But at least it would solve the issue.”

“No good. Not with Wistram. You can pay off some bounties. Baleros lets you cancel a bounty with coin, and Drake cities let you clear fines, but Wistram won’t accept our gold. Damn them.”

Ceria shook her head. She looked at Pisces again.

“I understand these allegations are false. Are they not, Comrade Pisces? In this case, this is slander unbecoming of the academy.”

Ksmvr waved the parchment at Pisces. The [Necromancer] looked up. Ceria spoke for him.

“It’s false! Mostly, Ksmvr. But Wistram can say whatever they want. Damn, damn—they forced Liscor to let them go!”

“Are you surprised? The Academy does what it wants, Springwalker. This is—typical of them.”

Pisces’ voice grated. He jerked his hand; the parchment dropped to the table. His team stared at him, concerned. Yvlon looked at Pisces.

“Pisces, it’s completely wrong. Anyone who knows you—”

“And what of the countless thousands who don’t? My name is sullied forever. As Wistram pleases! I should have expected this. It matters not. I—I care not for the opinion of the uneducated masses.”

Pisces jerked his chair back. Yvlon reached for his arm.

“We’ll do something about this.”

“What, pray?”

He snapped at her. Yvlon hesitated.

“We’ll do something. Look, Ksmvr, throw away the posters. We’re all exhausted. Pisces, you’re pale as a sheet. You’re still not recovered. The [Healer] told you to rest.”

“She told us all to rest. You especially, Yvlon.”

The armored woman froze. Ceria looked at her. In the anger of meeting Montressa, she’d all but forgotten. Now, she looked at Yvlon’s arms. At the metal gauntlets covering…

“Yvlon. Take your armor off.”

The [Wounded Warrior] hesitated. She looked at Ceria and glanced at Pisces.

“We don’t need to do this now, Ceria. Pisces is—”

“Yvlon. That’s an order.”

The woman paused. Then she looked back at Ceria and slowly undid the gauntlets on one arm. Ksmvr helped her take off her vambrace, the rest of the metal.

A…smell filled the nearby air. It was mostly medicinal. A thick poultice. But behind that—Ceria stared. She’d seen it before when the [Healer] set Yvlon’s dislocated arm. But now?

Bone stared up at Ceria. Bone anchored into flesh. What flesh there was left. Yvlon’s arm was—Ceria remembered what it had been.

Torn, destroyed in parts by the metal that had melded with her bones. But it had still looked like an arm. Now, bone had been grafted onto the weak arm. Flesh was torn, infected, oozing pus around parts of the place where metal had rubbed against skin. Ceria smelled it, gagged—

Yvlon put the gauntlets back over her skin. She mumbled, avoiding Ceria’s stare. Even Pisces looked shocked by the sight.

“It’s fine. It’s just infected. The [Healer] says the poultice is working and I can use a healing potion once it clears. It’s—”

“What the fuck is that, Yvlon?”

Ceria hit the table as she rose. The half-Elf stared at her friend. Yvlon went still as the entire inn looked at Ceria. She glanced around and everyone pretended to look elsewhere. Ceria lowered herself, shaking.

“You didn’t tell me! Your arm is a mess! I’ve seen better—it doesn’t look like an arm! And that bone! What the hell is—”

She looked at Pisces. He didn’t respond. Yvlon shook her head.

“It’s—to support my bones. Remember how they kept on breaking? Well, this makes it so I can swing a sword. It helps, Ceria Even the [Healer] agreed.”

“When she stopped shouting, yes.”

Both Ceria and Yvlon looked at Ksmvr. Ceria opened her mouth.

“You—you asked Pisces to do that?”

“I did. I asked, Ceria. And I haven’t had a reason to regret it. The infection’s not from the bones. It’s just—there. And I don’t feel it. It’s fine. I can move my arms.”

To demonstrate, Yvlon lifted the shoulder that had been dislocated. Ceria hissed.

“Don’t do that! You couldn’t use a potion! Those muscles are torn!”

“I can’t feel them. Ceria, I’m fine.”

“You’re as far from fine as Pisces is!”

The half-Elf snapped back. She looked at Yvlon. The woman had folded her arms. Ceria stared at Ksmvr and Pisces.

“You didn’t tell me. Why didn’t you tell me? I’m your Captain, Yvlon! Pisces knew. And Ksmvr? Did everyone know about Yvlon’s arms but me?”

Yvlon avoided Ceria’s gaze. Ksmvr raised one hand helpfully.

“I knew because I have an inadequate sense of personal privacy, Captain Ceria. My finding out was unintentional on Yvlon’s part.”

“But you knew. And I didn’t because, what, you don’t trust me?”

“I didn’t tell you because you’d react exactly like this. Ceria, what do you want me to do?”

Yvlon glared at Ceria, her cheeks flushed. The half-Elf folded her arms.

“Get help. You can’t continue like this. We need to find you a [Healer]—”

“To do what? They couldn’t even fix my arms! Pisces did. I don’t need to sit around while the [Healers] tell me there’s nothing else they can do. I’m an adventurer, Ceria.”

“Not with those arms.”

The woman’s hands tightened on the table.

“It’s what I want to do.”

“And I should just let you?”

“It’s my choice.”

“Not if you’re killing yourself—”

“What else should I do, then?”

Ceria rocked back. Yvlon’s raised voice prompted movement. Erin hurried over.

“Hey, guys. Do you need anything…?”

“No, Erin. Sorry. We’re fine.”

“It’s totally cool. I get it. If you need a drink, or food? Anything you want tonight.”

“I’m not hungry. Not right now.”

“Got it. Just say when…”

Erin looked at Pisces and hesitated. But for once the energetic [Innkeeper] didn’t say anything. The Horns watched her retreat and whisper to Lyonette. Ceria buried her head in her hands.

“How did this happen?”

“The Wistram team had been pursuing Comrade Pisces for a long time. I believe they ambushed us in an effective, if ill-considered move. We were saved by their inappropriate understanding of Liscorian law and their arrogance. And Mrsha’s nose and Miss Erin.”

Ksmvr looked around the table. Ceria nodded dully.

“Montressa. Dead gods. I haven’t seen her for years. And that’s what she turned into? She’s completely different than the Mons I knew. And—what has she been doing? Those spells! That staff and orb! I didn’t get a chance to ask.”

“Not much opportunity to ask with her screaming at you.”

Yvlon reached for a mug of water. She gritted her teeth. Ceria looked up.

“Yeah. Yeah. They’re—those bastards got us. Not a second time. And we’re safe in Liscor.”

“But there’s a bounty on my head. And I am sure Montressa will not rest until I am captured.”

Pisces looked up. He had a ghastly smile on his face. Ceria hesitated.

“We’ll do something about it.”

“What?”

He stared at her. She hesitated.

“We’ll get the bounty overturned. Appeal it! It’s not right. Maybe Watch Captain Zevara can vouch for us?”

Pisces made a disgusted noise and turned away. Ceria looked around desperately. Yvlon was looking at Pisces sympathetically. Ceria had a thought.

“I’ll—I’ll reach out to Falene. She’s a graduate. Maybe she can help.”

“I will speak to someone as well. She will see something is done if anything. But nothing will change the bounty.”

Pisces muttered darkly. Ceria stared at him. She opened her mouth. She wanted to say something.

“About Montressa. She was really—”

Pisces looked up. The half-Elf wavered. She fell silent. Yvlon looked at Ksmvr. He’d opened his mandibles. She slowly nudged him and he closed them and looked at her. The whirling silence grew deeper around the Horns of Hammerad.



—-



Across the inn, Erin twisted her hands in her cooking apron. Lyonette was feeding Mrsha dinner at the bar. The Gnoll cub whined in the back of her throat, but Lyonette was soothing her.

“Not yet, Mrsha dear. They’re busy. Everyone’s a bit—just eat your dinner. You can go cheer up Moore, okay?”

She looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] hadn’t taken her eyes off the Horns. She longed to go over, to smile—but it wouldn’t have been genuine. Erin wanted to do something. But she knew that she might make things worse. What could she do?

It was like a puzzle, one of the ones where you had a specific shape that could fit in a whole. That was how Erin would have described it. She muttered as she saw Pisces snap something at Ceria.

“Food? No. Cake? Spaghetti? No. Alcohol?”

She paused and eyed the Horns.

“No. Mrsha? No. Faerie flower drink? No.”

“Erin?”

Lyonette looked at her. Erin turned her head, blinking. Mrsha looked up quizzically. Erin silently shook her head.

“It’s nothing.”

She turned her head back to the Horns. She saw Pisces’ face. But nothing fit. So she just watched.



—-



Ceria was hesitating, biting her lip. Ksmvr had cleared away the posters, but it hung over them. She could see Gnolls and Drakes glancing at Pisces. And his name hung in her head.

Pisces Jealnet. She had never known his name. And she’d been in the academy with him! All this time—she hesitated, clearing her throat.

“Pisces, if you want to talk about it—”

Pisces’ head jerked up. His cheeks were still flushed. He clenched his hands in his robes.

“Talk? About what, pray tell?”

His tone was beyond acerbic. Ceria could feel the hurt in every line of it. She hesitated.

“Look, the bounty’s wrong. We know the academy’s lying. Erin knows it. We all know it. But if you want to talk—about Montressa? About…”

His eyes narrowed dangerously.

“About my name? Or the spurious allegations? Are you wondering if any of them are accurate?”

“No! Not at all! It’s just—”

Ceria raised her hands defensively. Pisces stared at her.

“Just what?”

“Look—I know some of it’s not true, but I know you committed some crimes. And we never knew your name. Montressa appearing out of nowhere was a shock. But she—you know she has a reason to—”

“To beat me into unconsciousness? To cast a spell on Selys and kidnap you all?”

The half-Elf wavered. But she had to say it.

“Yes.”

He stared at her. Yvlon opened her mouth and Ceria rushed on.

“Not to attack us! But she was there, Pisces. You know what she must have thought. We never got to speak with her. Look, I’m saying she’s wrong. But she had a reason to hate you. I’m absolutely against her. You heard me shouting! But let’s talk about it, okay?”

“What is there to discuss? She is after me. If you would avoid Wistram’s ire—”

“We’re not abandoning you, Pisces. You’re a teammate.”

Yvlon spoke quietly. Pisces looked at her. He half-rose.

“And so I should confess all my sins, is that it?”

“No! Pisces! Just tell us—we just want to know the truth.”

“You can read it. I don’t owe you explanations!”

The [Necromancer] was furious. He got up. Ceria rose with him.

“Pisces, just talk to us—”

“Comrade Pisces, it would be best to share information at this time. The communication of information with your peers will help us better aid you. Captain Ceria is only inquiring about your wellbeing.”

Ksmvr piped up, looking at Pisces. The [Necromancer] flushed. Ceria saw him open his mouth and snap down at Ksmvr.

“My peers? Where are they? If I find anyone worthy of sharing my thoughts with, I will be pleasantly surprised!”

The Antinium flinched. He stared up at Pisces and then looked down.

“Oh. I am sorry for presuming.”

“Pisces! Apologize to Ksmvr!”

Yvlon shot to her feet. She glared at Pisces. He was flushed as he glared at her. The armored woman narrowed her eyes.

“You’re out of line. Who cares if you’re common-born? You’re overreacting. We know the bounty poster is false. You don’t have to take it out on Ksmvr because you’re embarrassed we know you’re not from an aristocratic house! It doesn’t matter!”

It was the wrong thing to say. Pisces’s eyes widened. He stared at Yvlon for one second and then spoke.

“Spoken like a noble child.”

Yvlon’s cheeks went white. She sat down abruptly and said not a word more. Ceria stared at Pisces. Those cutting words. She clenched her fists.

“You jackass! We put ourselves on the line trying to help you! We’re your team! Don’t we deserve at least some answers—”

“Why? So you can lecture me on how wrong I am? Turn up your nose until you have need of my abilities?”

Pisces whirled on Ceria. She took a step back.

“I—you know Montressa has a reason for her fury! You know that, Pisces! I’m angrier than anyone about what she did! But you have to remember what happened! She does! She broke down when she saw the undead illusion! Pisces! Calvaron and all the others—”

“What of them?”

Ceria had to say it.

“It was your fault they died. It was an accident, but they died. You know why Montressa blames you. I’ve forgiven you. But it was still your fault. If you won’t admit that—you’re every bit the monster that Minotauress called you.”

The table went silent. The room went silent. Everyone stared at Ceria. Pisces looked at her. He was shaking. When he opened his mouth, his voice was wavering. But not with guilt. Not with regret. With pure rage.

“I don’t regret it now. Not at all. I meant every word I said. Calvaron? I don’t even recall his face. I only wish that curse had killed all of Wistram! All of them and—”

Ceria punched him in the face. If it was a movie, it should have been a slap. But Ceria was an adventurer. Pisces’ head jerked back and he stumbled, nearly falling into his chair. Ksmvr caught him, but Pisces struck his hand away. Silently, he looked at Ceria.

She was breathing hard, staring at him, appalled by what she’d done.

“Pisces, I—”

He whirled and strode away. Ceria saw him storming up the stairs to his room. Erin was frozen at the bar. Lyonette stared at Pisces. Mrsha was gone.

In the silence afterwards, Ceria looked at Yvlon and Ksmvr. She worked her mouth silently.

“I—damn it. Dead gods damn it.”

She sat back down. Why did she say it? Now? But Pisces had been—her team sat around her. And the mood in the air was like filth, like bitterness given form. Ceria wanted to go back and break her fist on Montressa and her team. She hated them. Hated Pisces for being him. She sat there—



—-



Erin saw it all. And still, she hesitated. She could see herself going over to the team, or following Pisces. And…she had seen it before. She remembered a young woman. Ryoka. But this was even worse. She ached for Pisces. And for the Horns. She tried to do something. But nothing fit.

A square peg in a round hole. Or…a complicated mess, that no one shining bullet could solve. Nothing Erin had. She got up, abruptly.

“I’m going out. Lyonette, keep an eye on the inn.”

“Sure. Mrsha? Where’d she go? Mrsha?”

Lyonette looked around distractedly. Her voice was low. Erin walked towards the door. The inn was silent. No one wanted to speak loudly. It was a mood in the air, that even she couldn’t lift. It hung around the Horns of Hammerad, but it hadn’t originated from them.

It spread like rot. They had brought it with them. Wistram’s [Mages]. Montressa’s team. Hatred and anger. Regret. Pain. Suffering. They had brought it out of Ceria and Pisces’ pasts, and what was worst was that there was truth, a reason behind the hatred. Erin walked out of her inn and into Liscor, searching. Feeling it spreading.

The past caught up with the present and brought only misery.



—-



“So. It’s true. I heard you were here, but I had to see it to believe it.”

Calruz of Hammerad jerked to wakefulness at the harsh voice. He sat up in his cell. The one-armed Minotaur looked around, blearily, caught off-guard by the voice. It was deep, female. Not like even the female Gnolls. He looked up, blinking in the light coming from the magical barrier of his cell.

And stared. Bezale, the [Scrollscribe], stared down at Calruz from across the barrier to her cell. She stood proudly, her robes hanging around her muscular form. Few of Minos were unfit; it was considered a mark of disgrace. She was hardly as trained as a true Minotaur [Warrior]; even in his cell, Calruz was stronger. But she was…whole.

Two arms. And a proud bearing. Her horns wore caps of precious metal. And her eyes flashed with disgust. For him. Calruz stared at her and realized he was on his back. The one-armed Minotaur struggled up.

His two rats, Haldagaz, Vanquisher of Foes, almost pure white and male, and Rhata, Trident-Guardian, the grey female one, crawled up his chest and fled into their bucket-home at the unfamiliar intruder. Calruz sat up, pushing himself up with his arm.

His one arm. The right was gone. Torn away, leaving only a stump. The unknown Minotauress stared at it, dismissively. Calruz’ jaw worked. He couldn’t believe it.

“Who—”

His breath caught. He tried again.

“Who are you?”

“Is that how you greet a Minotaur?”

She snapped at him. The words triggered memory. Calruz blinked. Reflexively, he surged to his feet.

“Calruz of Hammerad. Well met, kindred!”

He held an arm out, as if he could reach through the barrier and grab her arm. The Minotauress stared at him. She spoke slowly.

“Bezale of Maweil.”

She did not greet him. Nor did she make any move. Calruz slowly lowered his arm. Now he was awake, he was confused. And…afraid. Confusion came first. He stared at her.

“Bezale of—it’s been so long since I’ve seen one of our kind. Especially around here! Are you a fellow adventurer? What’s a seafarer from Maweil doing in Liscor?”

Beza ignored his questions. She looked Calruz up and down. He wore ragged pants and a rough tunic, fairly dirty despite Calruz’s attempts to keep it clean, worn from constant use. His fur was matted. She snorted, disgust ringing clear in her words.

“I came to arrest a criminal. And see to the execution of justice. I couldn’t believe it when I heard. One of the House of Minos, losing his mind? Betraying his team? Kidnapping civilians? Murdering them?”

Calruz froze. She knew. And she had come here to judge. He opened his mouth.

“Bezale of Maweil. I have—”

“Be silent. You are a disgrace.”

Calruz closed his mouth. Bezale paced back and forth in front of his cell.

“I couldn’t believe it. One of our kind? Reduced to this? Look at you. You’re more pathetic than I could have imagined. Why are you here? You’ve been judged guilty. Why hasn’t Liscor executed you? You’d be dead in any port of Minos within the day for your crimes! Well? Answer!”

The Minotaur spoke slowly. He closed his eyes, trying to breathe. Explain, though part of him agreed with every word.

“I could have been ensorcelled. I am still not sure if I was—”

“You are not.”

He froze. His heart stopped. Beza looked at him and shook her head.

“I cast [Detect Magic] the instant I saw you. There is none about you, save for the magic in the cell.”

“The Watch Captain of this city believes the spell may be more complex than that. She believes I may be innocent.”

Calruz protested. He watched Beza. She twitched when he mentioned Zevara. What was going on? She glared at him and spat. It hit the barrier and fizzled.

“Excuse. You are a coward who fears death!”

“I do not.”

Calruz’ growled. Even as a captive, even as he was, that strung what remained of his pride. Beza sneered at him.

“You’ve been prisoner for months! Any self-respecting warrior would have done what’s right. Ensorcelled? By what? You murdered Gnolls. Children. I heard all about your crimes. Because of you, the people of this city feared me.”

The Minotaur [Prisoner] looked down. He clenched his one hand.

“I have no excuse, kindred. But the Watch Captain refuses to grant me death. She believes in me. So I remain.”

“You have no right to call me kindred. And I know what needs to be done.”

Beza’s voice was very cold. She stared at Calruz. She was taller than he was. She nodded down the length of the prison and then stepped forwards. He looked up as she whispered to him.

“I’ll find a way to smuggle in a knife to you. You do the proper thing.”

“But that’s—”

He jerked. She glared at him and pounded a fist on the barrier to his cell. The light flashed, but didn’t even waver.

“That’s the honorable thing to do! You should have done it long ago, coward. Look at you, sleeping with rats? What’s next? I’ll get the knife in. Bribe the guards, perhaps. It won’t take me more than a day or two.”

She turned away dismissively. Calruz stared at her back. He couldn’t bear it any longer. He spoke up, angrily.

“I have a question. Are you an arbiter of the isles? You did not announce yourselves as such. Do you have that authority?”

Beza turned. She hesitated, which was answer enough.

“I have the right of every Minos to judge another! I came here because I heard you’d disgraced our kind!”

Calruz’ eyes narrowed. So, not the arbiter he’d feared. Still—a thought occurred to him. He stared at Beza.

“Who did you come here to apprehend?”

She paused. He stared at her.

“Who?”

“Do not make demands of me, traitor.”

She glared at him. But Calruz was unwavering. After a moment, Beza spat.

“A member of your team. Pisces Jealnet. A [Necromancer]. If I thought you could sink no lower, I was wrong. That he claims to be part of a team that calls itself the ‘Horns of Hammerad’? Ludicrous!”

Calruz’s stomach twisted. Pisces? What had he done? No, Ceria had told him something of Pisces’ past. He stepped forwards, towards the magical barrier that kept him caged.

“Did you capture him?”

“We did. But thanks to the laws of this pathetic city he was released. He won’t escape us a second time. Him or the team protecting him.”

Bezale snarled. She was angry. She’d come here angry; Calruz could see it from the red seeping into her eyes. He growled.

“His team? If you touched Ceria Springwalker—”

“You’ll do what?”

Beza stared at Calruz. He didn’t reply. He was breathing hard. Now he understood. Beza spoke slowly.

“I will say this for your honor, Calruz of Hammerad. Kill yourself.”

“No. I do not know that I am guilty. And I will not be judged by you.”

Calruz snarled at her. She’d come for Ceria? Attacking his team? He felt the rage building. Beza snapped at him.

“Coward. You are a coward. Just as much as your team. All of you should have fought to the last in the crypt, instead of fleeing! You, the Antinium, that half-Elf and the broken woman. And the [Necromancer]. All of you are a disgrace.”

The Minotaur saw red. Literally; blood began to fill his gaze. He stepped up to the barrier until he could feel it tingling his muzzle, the fur on his chest. He spoke through the fury building in him.

“Tell me, Bezale of Maweil. How did you win the honor of passage from our home?”

She stared at him.

“I won my right by my skill at magic. By my talent.”

Calruz nodded. Then he reached out. His eyes turned red as he pushed at the magical cell’s barrier with one hand. The magic burned his palm. Beza jerked back. But Calruz didn’t care. The Minotaur raised his voice.

“I won my right by skill at arms! By bravery, by daring! I was an adventurer. And I disgraced myself. I betrayed my team. All this is true. But—”

He stared at her. Calruz gritted his teeth as his palm smoked and burnt.

“But I’d rather sell myself into slavery than take lessons about honor from someone who has no idea what it means to be an adventurer. If you touch Ceria Springwalker, she will break you and whomever you brought with you.”

Beza stared at Calruz, her face twisted with disgust.

“Spoken like the truest of cravens. The House of Minos will hear from me. Hammerad will know their son’s treachery and cowardice!”

She spun. Beza strode from the prison. Calruz bellowed after her, his voice echoing in the prison. The [Guards] rushed forwards, but they stopped when they saw Beza striding away. Calruz stared at Beza until she was out of sight. Then he felt the pain.

His palm was raw, the magic taking it to bits. The Minotaur stopping pushing at the cell wall. He sank to the floor. The pain was there, but it was barely noticeable to him compared to the agony in his heart. He bowed his head.

In the silence, no one made a sound. No one, except for a small, grey shape which crept out of the bucket in the back of the cell. A last Daughter of the Grainsack. The little rat crawled across the floor and up Calruz’s side. She crawled up onto his left arm and sniffed at his raw palm.

The rat wriggled her whiskers as her brother came out of hiding. Calruz stared down at her. He shook his head in silent response to the unspoken query.

“Just a fellow Minotaur, Rhata. She will tell the isles. I wish she had the right to judge. I wish I knew.”

He stroked the little rat’s head. And he refused to listen to the voices that told him to kill it. And his voice, that told him to kill himself.

Misery.



—-



Palt, the Centaur [Illusionist], hated his life. He trotted through Liscor, aware that he had tails. Not the one on his behind, but [Guards]. Liscor’s Watch was following him, even after he’d split from Montressa and the others. It wasn’t a good time to be around Montressa, anyways.

She was still mostly incoherent after the illusion the [Necromancer], Pisces, had conjured. Palt was impressed himself; it had been an ugly spell. Isceil and Ulinde were keeping Montressa company in the inn they’d rented and Beza had strode off to do something. Palt was by himself, but he wasn’t alone.

He was talking to someone, using a [Communication] spell. It was advanced stuff, but he was a full [Mage] of Wistram and if he wasn’t specialized in combat magic like his peers, he was well-versed in a number of magics. Right now he was giving a report to someone in Wistram. His superiors. He had no doubt Beza and the others were all doing the same and getting chewed out too.

“Yes, well, she’s too focused on Pisces. I know Wistram is stretched thin trying to follow up on all the leads with the guests, but the Revivalists shouldn’t have pushed to put Montressa in charge of this team. She might be best of all of us, but she’s too young.”

The Centaur listened to the response. He winced, and fumbled for a cigar. No dreamleaf or anything stronger; the Watch had also told him he couldn’t smoke anything illegal—which was practically everything—within Liscor’s walls. Grumpily, the Centaur lit up with a flick of his fingers and replied.

“Yes, of course. Yes, I’ll try—I’m certain. One of the guests. It’s all donkey dung now, though. She’s a close friend of the team we attacked. No, I could not stop it! I’ll try. Yes. Please convey my regards to Master [Phantasmal Trickster].”

The person on the other end, another [Illusionist] in her sixth year he knew, replied shortly.

“I’ll do that. But they’re mad, Palt. Liscor’s considered important and having to send out a bounty and getting in trouble after Tiqr—”

“It’s not my fault! I’m not in charge! Take it up with the Revivalists—they put Montressa in charge! What was I supposed to do?”

“You’re representing our interests. Just try not to break any more laws. And don’t smoke anything in Liscor! Got it?”

Palt paused with the cigar in his lips.

“Of course.”

“You’re smoking something right now, aren’t you? If you get us in trouble, no one’s bailing you out.”

“I’ve got it! Tell Master [Phantasmal Trickster]—”

“I’ll tell them. Just remember what I said.”

“Got it. Bye.”

Palt fell the magic spell dissipate. Grumpily, he trotted faster, smoking hard and muttering under his breath. He could sense his tails moving faster. Gnolls, probably. He hoped they coughed on his cigar smoke.

The Centaur was angry. Angry at Montressa, at that damn Watch Captain who’d had him kicked and beaten up—and at himself for taking this stupid mission. He’d volunteered! What had he been thinking?

He sighed as he puffed away, trotting for the sheer necessity of moving his body. He ignored the Drakes and Gnolls this late at night. He had to think.

His faction had not been pleased with the news and they’d demanded an explanation of the events. They’d bailed him out of course; Wistram didn’t abandon their own, but there would be consequences. Few for Palt for all he’d been involved; he could only imagine what Montressa’s call had been like. But Palt had been reminded of his duties—to Wistram, yes, but to his faction, Ullsinoi, as well.

Some factions in Wistram were small. More like…well, more like entire schools of magic than ideologies like the Revivalists. Palt belonged to a small one, a little under a hundred members, actually. The Ullsinoi faction wasn’t huge, but they had clout where it mattered.

They were also very secretive, made up almost entirely of the illusion school of magic. It gave their [Mages]…peculiarities, especially in how they interacted. For instance, Palt didn’t even know half of the names of the master [Illusionists] in his faction. You just referred to them by nicknames, or classes, like his own master, Master [Phantasmal Trickster]. Palt didn’t even know the gender of his master, if they even had one. They liked to change their illusion and theirs was so complete Palt still couldn’t see through them.

It was hard being in the Ullsinoi faction—everyone was full of tricks, some of them really stupid, like the name of their faction. You couldn’t even get in if you didn’t figure out the idiotic joke within the first ten minutes of hearing the name. Frankly, that was probably a good bar to set anyways. But they had real interests, ones Palt agreed with. And now he’d have to carry them out. Somehow.

The Centaur gritted his teeth, chewing the cigar. He’d have to help repair the mess Montressa had made. She was obsessed with Pisces. Small wonder for what he’d done, but still. This was a disaster. Now they had the Watch on their tails, the [Innkeeper] they were supposed to make a priority hated their guts and they’d caused trouble for Wistram. What was he supposed to do? Maybe—

The Centaur was so preoccupied he didn’t see the shape making a beeline towards him. He only saw the figure too late and stopped before he ran her over.

“Pardon m—”

He looked down and saw Erin Solstice. She stared up at him. The Centaur dropped his cigar and reared.

“Gyaaah! Don’t hurt me!”

He turned to run. Erin grabbed Palt’s tail as he tried to cast [Invisibility]. He nearly kicked her!

“Hold on, hold on! I’m not gonna stab you!”

“That’s a specific threat! Let go of my tail!”

Palt whirled. Erin let go and he trotted backwards. His watchers had stopped, warily. Palt eyed Erin. He knew what she’d done! She’d stabbed Beza and nearly killed Isceil with a pot of sauce! He backed up, but she followed.

“We’re allowed to be in Liscor! If you attack me—”

“Oh, be shush, you. I’m not gonna hurt you. But if you cast a spell on me, I’ll stab you.”

Erin put a hand on the knife at her belt. Palt raised his hands instantly.

“No magic! I’ve done nothing! I wasn’t even part of the group that attacked your friend! My name’s Palt! I’m sorry for everything! I’m just here to help find you lot.”

He winced. Damn! Gnolls! He cast a [Hush] spell around him and Erin. She stared up at him.

“Yeah. I heard. But you cast a spell on Selys.”

“I—look, Montressa’s my leader. I have to obey her. I know it was bad. But [Mind Blank] doesn’t harm her.”

“Pisces is her friend. She watched you beat him up.”

“I didn’t do a thing.”

“Except cast the spell.”

He looked at her and trotted back a few steps.

“Please don’t stab me. I’ll apologize to her. Really.”

“You’d better. Her grandmother was a Gold-rank adventurer. She’ll kill you.”

Palt paled. Old people with high levels were the worst.

“I’ll do that. Miss Erin, is it? I’m very sorry. On behalf of Wistram, I apologize. My team is filled with idiots. But that Pisces fellow is wanted by Wistram. I was there when the undead came and slaughtered a bunch of [Mages].”

“Yeah. I heard about that. But he was let go. They had a trial. So why’s Wistram after him? Is it just Montressa?”

Palt shuffled his hooves. He stared down at Erin. He had a sense she was high-level. She had a certain intensity about her. He felt a surge of trepidation. And hope. She was speaking to him. So the Centaur made an ingratiating gesture. He rummaged in his saddlebags.

“Miss Solstice? Again, I’m very sorry. If I can make it up to you at all—allow me to introduce myself. I’m Palt, an [Illusionist]. My team was sent to escort you back to Wistram. I realize that holds little weight, but allow me to—may I make you a gift? I have some dreamleaf, which I understand your people call uh, marjinaula.”

“Marijuana? Wait, you mean weed?”

Erin recoiled as he offered her some dried leaves. Palt faltered.

“Wait, are you one of the people who don’t like it?”

“No! Are you a stoner?”

“Damn—er—well, that was an offer of good faith! It’s relaxing! I have tobacco—”

The Centaur realized he was digging himself further in. He stopped and spread his hands.

“Let me try again. Again. Anything you want, Miss Solstice, I can offer. I have a number of uh, aids for my magic. Relaxing. And I’m here to help. Truly. If there’s anything I can do, name it.”

He waited. Erin Solstice looked Palt up and down. He waited. At last, Erin nodded. She looked at Palt and spoke slowly.

“Tell me about…Montressa.”



—-



Pisces slammed into his room, unable to speak properly with fury. He kicked the first pile of bones he saw, scattering them across the room, and then turned and blasted the wall with a few bolts of magic. Erin’s reinforced walls took the spells with little more than scorch marks. Pisces whirled around and bellowed.

“Those idiots. Fools! They were never good enough for my company. I should have never wasted my time on them.”

He tore across the room, looking for something else to break. The Bone Behemoth was gone, as well as the spell that Az’kerash had inscribed on its skull. But the notes of both had been recorded and Pisces had been studying them. Until today. Until his outing with Selys. Pisces stared down at his notes and then threw everything off his desk.

Quill, inkpot, paper, all of it went flying. Pisces strode around the room, shouting and cursing.

“This entire inn can burn. Everything and everyone in it!”

His name! They’d released his name! Those pustulant, arrogant, spineless fools in Wistram! His name. And a bounty—

Pisces pointed a finger. This time electric shots hit the far wall, bouncing off the window. He uttered his fury, wishing he could have stabbed that idiotic Drake through the head. Or the Minotauress. He remembered every kick, how they’d beaten him down. And they’d walked free! He should have killed them. The Centaur, the Selphid—

Montressa. Pisces stopped. He was panting. Her. She dared to come here and—he remembered the look on her face.

“Calvaron. He deserved it. They all did. All of their hidebound…”

Pisces paused. Then he turned his head. He remembered a Centaur, laughing and welcoming him into Wistram. He pushed down the emotion, remembering the others.

Too much. Enough. Pisces was done. He—he felt at his ribs. They were mending. But he still felt the pinpoints of pain if he pressed. He closed his eyes, and his bones began to mend. A [Necromancer] could do that to himself; he couldn’t snap bones at will, because other people had too much inbuilt resistance to those kinds of spells. But he could heal himself. No one else could do that, save for the highest-level [Healers] or spells or potions. He relished the thought of Wistram’s team suffering their fractured bones.

Just another thing they scorned him for. Them, and all the others. Even Ceria. How dare she? And Yvlon? He saw the way the others had looked at him. Necrophilia. They believed it. They were all trash. Worthless. Ceria, Yvlon, Ksmvr—Selys—Erin—

Pisces stopped. But the fury was overwhelming him. He stood in the center of his room, his eyes burning. His breath came in gasps. He hated them. They had ruined his life. It was always so. Always and always. He could trust no one.

Slowly, Pisces spoke. He had run so hot he was now cold. The words came out of him, slowly, bitterly, oozing toxins with every syllable.

“I care nothing for the living. They are all dust to me. I have seen the nature of humanity and it is rotten decay. Petty souls dragging each other down into eternity. Let them all die. Let them—”

The words were a litany. A curse. He had said that once. Az’kerash. When he renounced his humanity during his trial. Pisces had always read those words. Now, he believed them. Pisces searched for the little rat. He raised his arms. Let it all end! He’d leave. He’d leave and show them who he really was. He turned, looking—

And Pisces heard a small sound. A small, tiny whimper. He froze. It wasn’t coming from the rat perched on his dresser. No. It was a living sound, fueled by lungs. And it came from under his bed.

Something was under there. Snuffling. Pisces froze. He bent down and then he saw her.

A white shape. A little Gnoll, staring at him. Mrsha. She’d slunk into his room. Hidden under his bed. She was crying. Pisces stared at her. He opened his mouth. Fury talked for him.

“Get out. Get out! I don’t want to play! I don’t want—”

He pointed towards the door, raising his voice. Mrsha hid her face. Something rolled out in front of her. Pisces was about to shout. Then he saw what she’d been holding.

It was…a stick. Pointed at one end, easily grippable in one hand. Not a stick, in fact. He saw the magic in it. A wand. The wand Mrsha had stolen from him ages ago.

His wand. And tied to it, clumsily, with a Gnoll’s paws, a little yellow flower. Mrsha had been holding it in her paw. Now she sniveled, her nose and eyes running. She hid her face, scooting back under her bed, away from the furious Pisces. The wand was knocked further towards Pisces. The little golden flower was bent, the petals slightly bruised.

The [Necromancer] stared at the wand. He looked at it. And at Mrsha, wiping at her tears. He bent slowly, and she shivered away from him. Crying. She was crying because he’d shouted at her. Because he was shouting in general.

Because of what had happened. Pisces looked down at the wand. He looked at the little Gnoll. And suddenly, the fury went out of him. He was ashamed.

“Mrsha—”

She crawled away from him, to the furthest corner under the bed. Pisces sat down slowly. He was still angry. So angry he would have killed Isceil if the Drake popped into the room this moment. But anger burned hot only so long. Shame—now, shame grew. And Pisces’ conscience finally caught up with his mouth. He remembered what he’d said.

To Ceria. To Yvlon. To Ksmvr. To his team. Pisces stared ahead dully. They’d deserved it. That was what part of him whispered. They doubted him. They never trusted him. Not really. Yvlon had always looked at him with suspicion. Ceria still held his past against him.

But Yvlon had asked him to fix her arms. And Ceria had forgiven him. Pisces tried to be angry. But he couldn’t help but remember as he stared down at the flower, around his room. They had gone through Albez. He had gone into the crypts for her. They were his team.

He hadn’t wanted it! It had been a thing of convenience! But—they’d welcomed him. Erin had. And Ksmvr. Pisces felt his eyes stinging. Of all people, to say that to him. Almost as bad as—

He looked down. Mrsha had put her paws over her eyes and water was trickling down into her white fur. She didn’t move as he slowly got up. Pisces hesitated, knelt, picked up the wand.

“Mrsha. I’m not angry.”

She quivered, her back to him. Her tail didn’t move and she held still. Pisces looked at the wand.

“Is that a gift for me? It’s quite thoughtful. I did not mean to shout at you. Will you come out?”

Not a response. Mrsha was crying. And she’d been the one who knew he and the others were captured. Erin had told him. If it weren’t for her, he might have been in the box. And he’d shouted at her.

Pisces felt a lump in his throat. He opened his mouth, searching for something to coax her out. And the words came out. What he really meant.

“I’m sorry.”

Mrsha stopped crying. She turned her head slowly. Pisces looked at her.

“I’m sorry for shouting. I truly am, Mrsha. I didn’t mean it. I was angry. But I should never have shouted at you. Will you come out? Thank you for the flower.”

The Gnoll stared at him. Her eyes were running. She looked at Pisces, and he imagined a cat. Or a dog. But then she shot out of the bed and leapt at him. And she hugged him. No pet could do that.

A child. Pisces sat back as Mrsha rammed into him. She buried her head into his robes. For a moment, he stared at her, but then, gingerly, he put his arms around her. Lifted her into his lap. Patted her head. She began to punch at his side, weakly.

“I’m sorry. I was just—it was the bounty and—I’m sorry. I should never have said that. Forgive me?”

He stopped making excuses. Mrsha wiped her face in his robes. She looked up at him, eyes still overflowing. Pisces rubbed at his eyes. And then he began to cry.

“I knew they’d do this. I knew, but—I’ve been trying. And this is what happens. I tried. I never meant for that! Any of it!”

He tried to stop. But they kept coming out. Frustrated, angry. And hurt. Oh, it hurt. Almost as much as hurting other people. But not enough. Mrsha stared up at Pisces. Then she sat up.

She licked his cheek and hugged him. He stared at her, feeling her feet on his lap. It was such an odd feeling. He’d had…Erin hug him? Or Selys? Maybe? In moments of excitement. But never like this. He gently patted her on the back as she blew her nose on his robes.

“I’m alright. You helped save me, didn’t you? It was brave of you. You are…my heroine.”

She looked up. Pisces saw Mrsha point downstairs. Of course. She’d heard everything. She looked at him, tearful. He didn’t need sign language to know what she meant.

“Yes. I should. I—I said very mean things, didn’t I?”

She stared at him and nearly bit his hand. He snatched his fingers away.

“Bad things. I was angry. I’ll apologize.”

She tried to tug him towards the door. Pisces held still and shook his head.

“In—in twenty minutes. I will go down then. To let tempers cool.”

He was prevaricating. In truth, now Pisces was embarrassed. So incredibly so that he couldn’t face the others. Mrsha stared at Pisces. Then she sat down and stared at him.

That was worse. The Gnoll’s stare went right through Pisces. And he sat there, recalling exactly what he’d said. To Ceria most of all. He tried to wait, to clear his mind.

He couldn’t bear it for more than ten minutes. Pisces got up, and opened his door. Mrsha followed him out into the hallway. Down the steps.

They were all there. The common room looked up as Pisces stopped at the foot of the stairs, and then quickly looked to their drinks. The Horns sat there, looking at Pisces and then away. It felt like an age since he’s shouted at them. Ten minutes? Twenty, including his tantrum? Pisces hesitated.

Then he walked towards them. Mrsha was in his arms. Lyonette hurried over.

“Mrsha! Were you bothering—”

She halted, looking at Pisces. He turned towards her.

“She didn’t bother me. Mrsha—”

He placed Mrsha down on the floor. She watched as he walked over to the table. Ceria was drinking. Yvlon was sitting with Ksmvr, eating. Both looked up silently. Ksmvr looked down at once. Yvlon stared past Pisces, her face completely blank.

And Ceria? She looked at the young man and then turned away. Drinking deeply. Pisces stared down at the table. He took a deep breath. And then another. And another.

On the fourth breath, the words came out in a rush.

“I’m—sorry. Ceria, Yvlon. Ksmvr. I am sorry. I didn’t mean what I said. I spoke in anger.”

“Oh yeah? What a surprise.”

Ceria didn’t look at him. Pisces hesitated. Yvlon looked up. She glanced at Ceria, and then at Ksmvr.

“It was a heated moment. We let things get away from us, Ceria.”

“I forgive you for all my trauma, Comrade Pisces.”

Ksmvr sat up, looking relieved. Pisces almost smiled at him. Almost. Tentatively, he pulled out a chair. Ceria didn’t kick it away from him as he sat, which was good. He saw Yvlon looking at him.

“I’m sorry.”

Rare words from him. She nodded slowly. She was still angry, he knew. And Ceria. But the half-Elf was biting her lips.

It was easy, then, for Pisces to imagine saying something and inviting sympathy. In a bit they might talk. In a few days, the incident might be behind them. Tempers had been high. But right now—

His throat constricted. That was what he could do. What Pisces did. But the young man bit his lip. After a moment, he looked around, catching Ceria’s eye, Yvlon’s look. Ksmvr’s stare. Pisces hesitated, and then put his hands on the table. He spoke over the thundering of his heart.

“My name, my true name, is Pisces Jealnet. It’s a commoner’s name. I was born in Terandria. In the Kingdom of Ailendamus. If you know if it, it’s a major nation. Sprawling. I was raised in House Dultel, one of the minor nobility. Not as a noble. My father was a [Fencer] employed by the [Lord]. I grew up in the household, well, around it.”

Ceria’s head snapped up. She turned, wide-eyed, and caught Pisces’ look. Yvlon blinked. Ksmvr began rummaging in his bag for a quill. Pisces looked at his team. He had never said this to anyone. The words came out of him, first slowly, like drawing a splinter, and then faster and faster.

“It’s true. My father was Padurn Jealnet. My mother Enica. They’re both alive, I think. They were when I left. I ran away from home. Because I was a [Necromancer]. I did steal to earn a living—I stole, used magic and sleight of hand to earn enough gold to pay the price of admission to Wistram. All that is true.”

“Pisces—”

Ceria looked at him. Pisces looked back. He was trembling, with nerves this time. He tried to steady his voice as he usually did. And failed.

“I always tried to hint at having aristocratic roots. Or some past beyond normal. The truth is that there’s not much. I learned to fence from my father, but I hated it. I found I had talent at magic. But my father wanted me to follow in his footsteps. He wasn’t a terrible man. He was strict. But he was a [Fencer]. Not the best, but good. He owned a silver bell, a mark of skill. I stole it when I ran away. I thought I earned it; I bested him when I fled. I used magic, you see. But I never gained the [Fencer] class. I didn’t want to be one.”

“You don’t have to tell us this.”

Yvlon’s voice was sympathetic. She was looking at Pisces. He jerked, shook his head. Ksmvr was taking notes and eating with his free hands.

“Let there be truth. It’s already out. So—here is the truth. You should know.”

He looked at his friends. It was all he could give. They watched him, without judgment. Waiting. So Pisces began from the beginning.

“Once upon a time, I did want to be a [Fencer]. A [Spellsword], at least. I trained every day. You know most children don’t gain their classes until they turn fourteen? Well, it was around that time when I was about to level. I could already fight better than my father’s other students. He was proud of me. And then I met her.”

Pisces traced on the table, conjuring images from his past. He still remembered. And his team listened. Slowly, Erin walked back into the inn. And the young woman inhaled and smiled. Something was lifting. Pisces went on.

“I met a [Necromancer]. And she was beautiful. She had made a work of art. A—a perfect thing. I can’t describe it. It looked like nothing I have ever seen in this world. Not Human, for all she made it out of bone. A creature that nature never envisioned. Disturbing. Captivating. Beautiful and terrible. I spoke to her in the month before she died. And I found that I was gifted in magic. Not just magic, but necromancy. And my life changed.”

When you got down to it, it was a simple tale. Pisces didn’t even need to recite it all to Ceria and Yvlon at least. He did for Ksmvr’s sake. Living a lie, finding his first class—his obsession with the dead, trying to make something like his mentor had. Finding beauty in death. Because there was beauty there! A terrible one, but something alluring.

Death is not any more evil than life; it is what we make of it. She had told him that. And he had watched her die. But she had set him on her path.

Continuing. Beginning to rebel against his father, quarrelling. Revealing his talents as a [Mage] and attracting the approval of the Dultel’s [Lord], being tutored. One day—being found out. Defeating his father.

Fleeing. From there, crime. Learning to read lips, pickpocket. Finding other [Mages], even other [Necromancers], before and after Wistram. But always, always, thinking of himself as apart. Necromancy wasn’t a tool to be used to amass power or conjure servants, to kill. Not just that. It was more. Finding fascination with Az’kerash, the last [Necromancer] of legend who had poisoned the class in the eyes of the world.

And then—Wistram. Meeting Ceria. Finding a true friend. Until she found out who he was. Becoming an outcast once more. In desperation, trying to rob Nekhret’s tomb. Using the very corpses of Ceria’s master and the others to break the wards. Unleashing death on Wistram.

Ceria looked at Pisces as he paused. His throat was parched. He coughed, and someone appeared at their table. Erin Solstice. She handed Pisces a mug.

“Want milk?”

He took it, gratefully. Erin began to drift away, but Ceria looked at her.

“You can stay, Erin. Right, Pisces?”

“Surely.”

Erin hesitated, and then sat down. Pisces drank, coughed, and drank again. He spoke.

“Calvaron was my friend. He never scorned me. Just kept away after everyone found out who I was. He did help me. And he died when I broke the ward on Nekhret’s tomb. It was my fault. And I regret his death. It was my fault.”

That needed to be said. Ceria nodded. She squeezed Pisces’ arm and he looked at her.

“Montressa has a reason to hunt me.”

“Cognita said it best. [Mages] have made worse mistakes and been expelled. The Council held you to the same standard. Her standard. Montressa can hate you. Hate me. But it was a mistake.”

Yvlon and Ksmvr nodded. Pisces stared past them. Erin waved a hand and they all looked at her.

“You know, she has nightmares. Almost every night, unless she uses a [Sleep] spell. Or a [Calm] spell or something. I heard it from Palt.”

“Who?”

“The Centaur. He told me a bit about Montressa.”

The Horns stared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] looked down and twiddled her thumbs. She spoke quietly.

“She watched someone get killed. Right in front of her. She was there. That’s why she…but I bet you knew that.”

She looked at Pisces. He nodded heavily.

“She has a reason.”

“But not enough. If you did it for a reason, that’s one thing. She hated you because you were a [Necromancer]. That’s another.”

Pisces jumped. He looked around. Someone else was listening to his story. He saw a green, light-scaled Drake, listening. Lyonette and Mrsha were standing with her. Pisces stood up unconsciously.

Selys. She looked at Pisces. Her eyes were red too. She reached out and hugged him.

“I’m so sorry. I didn’t do a thing.”

“You couldn’t have done anything.”

“But—”

Selys was shaking her head. Ceria saw another Drake past her. This one had blue scales. She narrowed her eyes. Then she stood up and went over to him.

Olesm hunched furtively at his table. He was wearing a hat and a coat, but his scales were as obvious as the sun. He looked around.

“Ceria. I uh—”

“Olesm.”

Ceria stared down at him. The [Strategist] flinched. They had spoken after Lism’s campaign against Calruz. Selys hadn’t noticed him, but Erin had. She shrugged at Selys. Olesm licked his lips nervously. He opened his mouth, and looked at Ceria.

“Look, I know—I know you probably hate my guts. But I had to see if you were okay. Do you need a healing potion? I heard Yvlon’s arms weren’t good. So I bought an anti-infection poultice. It’s better than a potion. And…”

He shut up as Ceria stared down at him. The [Strategist] hung his head.

“I’m sorry too. I thought you should know this. One of the [Mages], the Minotauress, went to see Calruz.”

“She did?”

Ceria turned pale. Olesm raised his claws.

“Don’t worry! He’s fine. She left. I doubled the guard on the prison just to be sure. The cell can’t be pierced by magic anyways. But I—I’ll go. I just wanted—”

Ceria looked down at Olesm. She wanted to say a lot, but in the end she just grabbed his shoulder.

“Come here.”

She towed him over to the table. Selys was sitting, and Mrsha was sitting on her lap. Pisces looked up at Ceria and Selys glared. But she let him sit.

And they listened.

“I have joined cults. I have met other [Necromancers]. Stolen. Lied. Killed rarely. And never without cause. But it’s true. I have done much that is wrong, but none more so than in Wistram.”

Pisces looked around the table. Ceria nodded heavily, but her shoulders felt lighter. She heard an exclamation near the door and looked up. Yvlon tensed.

“Not now.”

Erin leapt to her feet. The door to Liscor had opened and five familiar faces had entered the inn. Everyone froze as Montressa du Valeross and her team entered.

“Aw, no! Take cover!”

One of the Drake regulars hunkered down behind his table. The rest of the guests began to scatter. Erin glared.

“Oh no. You’re not allowed in here! This is my inn! Lyonette, where’s that death-curry?”

She reached for her knife. Palt raised his hands hurriedly.

“Peace! We just want to speak—”

“Not to me! Get out! This is private property!”

Erin pointed towards the door. The Wistram team paused. Isceil’s eyes flashed, but Pisces got up. He slowly walked towards Montressa.

All of the [Mages] drew their weapons. Erin yanked her knife out. But it was Jelaqua who leaned out from her table.

“If anyone casts a spell, I’ll smash their heads in.”

The Wistram team paused. They lowered their weapons. Montressa stared at Pisces. Her face was pale. Pisces looked at her, and then turned. He addressed her and the room.

“I made a terrible mistake once. And because of it, people died. I never intended it. I just wanted to prove there was a place for me at Wistram. I loved it there. Before people knew who I was. I wish they had not adored my mask so much.”

“What? Is that—”

Isceil’s voice was muffled as Palt pointed a finger at him. Pisces went on. Now he was only looking at Montressa, at her eyes. Hate and fear and hurt. All mixed into one.

“I’ve done many things. I’ve hurt people. Stolen. I’ve lied. To myself most of all. And I will pay for those crimes.”

She blinked. The Wistram [Mages] stared at Pisces. Beza spoke slowly.

“Does that mean you’re surrendering?”

Ceria shot to her feet. Yvlon caught her. Pisces shook his head.

“No. I will not submit to Wistram. Nor will I go back. I was judged, by one who knew the follies of [Mages] more than any other. Rightly or wrongly—I do not wish to rot in a cell or die.”

“You deserve it.”

Montressa whispered. She shook as she stared at Pisces. He hesitated. Then he bowed his head.

“I’m sorry Montressa. I never meant it. Never forgive me. But know that I never meant it.”

He looked at her. Then he turned and walked away. Still as a statue, the Wistram [Mages] watched him go. Erin exhaled. Montressa’s expression had changed not one bit. But around Pisces, in him, she thought she saw something disappear. Something heavy. He still had guilt on him, but it wasn’t an anchor anymore.

“You did the right thing, Pisces. Thanks for telling us who you were. Someday I’ll have to tell you about my life in return.”

Yvlon raised her cup as Pisces sat down. He smiled, shakily.

“Are they still staring at me?”

“Like daggers.”

“Let them. Or kick them out. They might be Wistram, but this is Liscor. And The Wandering Inn! They can’t do anything here!-”

Selys looked savagely at the [Mages]. She turned as Erin zipped past her. The young woman was conferring with Lyonette. Then Erin looked up.

“Found it!”

She threw open a trap door and hurried into the basement. The Horns, bemused, but sensing something, heard Erin shouting.

“Hey Numbtongue! What are you doing down there? Practicing your guitar? Help me find that soap Lyonette bought! And come upstairs!”

Erin raced back up, a bunch of powder in one bucket. Lyonette was already dragging a copper tub they used for washing out. Bemused, the crowd in the inn watched.

“Here it comes. Here it comes…”

Relc rubbed his claws at one table. Klbkch drank agreeably.

“I have missed this.”

Erin was mixing up water and the powder. She put a hand in.

“Wow, that’s soapy! No wonder—okay, get a mop! Ishkr!”

The Horns turned back to each other for a moment as Ishkr grabbed a mop and Erin hurried across the floor with it, shouting. It was a familiar scene. But this time Pisces knew it was engineered. That didn’t change what it meant.

“I’m sorry for what I said.”

“I’m sorry for doubting you. I know you’ve changed. And I…should have been a better friend in Wistram. Have I ever said that to you?”

Ceria looked at Pisces. He exhaled. Yvlon looked between them.

“Well, I’m sorry I didn’t talk about my arms. But this team means everything to me. I can’t give it up. I can’t quit.”

She reached out. Ceria put her hand on top of Yvlon’s gauntlet. Pisces reached out and placed it on top of hers. Ksmvr looked around.

“I am sorry I have no significant secrets I have withheld from you all. I am sorry for being substandard.”

“Ksmvr! You’re the best of us.”

The Antinium put two hands on the pile. The Horns looked at each other. Pisces tried to pretend his eyes were only itchy.

“You realize Wistram will keep hunting me. Montressa and her team will not let this rest. I could go.”

All four hands tightened on his. His team looked at him and Yvlon shook her head.

“The Horns of Hammerad don’t abandon their own so easily.”

“You’re not getting away that easily.”

“This is the only place where I belong. Where would I be if you left, Comrade Pisces?”

The [Necromancer] stared around. He bowed slightly.

“It’s an honor.”

They smiled and his heart leapt. And then—here it came. Pisces heard a shout. A strum of music from a guitar. He looked up and saw Erin. She was running down the center of her long common room. Then she leapt, flailing her arms. The momentum carried her forwards, across the slick, soaped floor.

She slid past them on her socks. The Horns stared at Erin.

“Wheeee—ohgodIcan’tstop!”

Laughing, Erin slid past them. Pisces inhaled, recalling. Ceria started laughing. The inn’s patrons stared. Then they saw a Gnoll cub sliding forwards on her belly, like a penguin. An Ashfire Bee clung to her head, fanning her wings for speed desperately.

“It’s like an ice rink! Or something! Watch out, Mrsha! Don’t smack your head!”

Erin laughed as she spun backwards. She tried to spin on one foot like a ballerina, but wiped out. The guests of her inn looked at each other. One of the Drakes nudged his companion.

“What you do you think? I think four out of ten. I expected food.”

“I’m not sliding. I could break a hip!”

The older Gnoll protested. But some of the guests were getting up. Relc was already on his feet.

“Alright! Let me try! Here I go!”

He flung himself across the floor, so fast that he was a blur as he shot past the Horns. He crashed into a wall, but rolled over, laughing. More people were getting on their feet and Erin began warning them not to copy Relc. Mrsha went spinning around on her rear, giggling silently.

Pisces chanced a glance towards the magic door. The Wistram team was still standing there. Staring. He sat back, but then saw someone rising out of the corner of his eye.

“Well, it was fun one time.”

Yvlon rose to her feet. Pisces stared at her. So did Ceria.

“Wait. Here? In front of—whoa! Tree rot!”

Yvlon spun Ceria’s chair out. The floor was so slick that the chair’s legs slid across the smooth floor. Ceria went screaming across the floor, clutching to the chair as people leapt aside. Yvlon looked at Pisces. He stared at her.

“Well? Are you with your team, Pisces?”

He looked at her. Serious Yvlon. Then Pisces shook his head and abandoned what he used to think of as his dignity. He stood up.

“Observe. Ksmvr? A push.”

He balanced on his chair with one leg. The Antinium looked at Pisces, and then heaved.

“Hey! No chairs! Whoa!”

Erin saw Pisces flash past her, balanced on one leg on the chair. Mrsha shot after him. Yvlon and Ksmvr slid past them.

“This inn is full of children!”

Beza stared at the people in the inn. She looked at the Horns, seeing Ceria point and turn the area of the inn even slicker with ice. She slid forwards, followed by Pisces, Ksmvr, Yvlon, Mrsha, Moore—

It was a moment in the inn. Just a single one, late at night. It was stupid, dangerous—and childish. The Horns knew it, but they took part anyways. They slid across the floor, chuckling. And then laughing. Not because they’d forgotten about what had happened or what the future held. But because you had to laugh. Or you’d die.

And the [Mages] from Wistram watched. It wasn’t that the Horns had forgotten them. But they refused to let them dictate their night. Montressa’s hand was tight on her staff. She watched. Isceil looked uncertainly at her, at Relc throwing Klbkch across the floor.

“They’re insane. All of them.”

Ulinde looked at the Halfseekers, heartbroken. At last, Beza turned.

“Come on. Let’s go.”

She turned. The team moved back through the door in silence. They stood outside as Beza closed the door. The laughter from the inn behind them was replaced by silence. The night. Montressa shivered. She looked at the others. Palt, glancing over his shoulder, Isceil, his tail lashing. Beza’s folded arms. Ulinde’s miserable face.

“This isn’t over. We’re capturing both Erin and him. We’ll get them. We’ll—”

Her voice broke. She turned. She looked back at the door. In the distance, past Liscor’s walls, an inn was lit up on a hilltop. And if you listened, you might still hear the laughter. For a moment Montressa remembered a laughing half-Elf and a young man. And her heart hurt. Then she shook her head.

She wiped at her eyes and walked away.



—-



Bird sat on a little tower on top of the inn. The roof was still not completed and the inn’s projected expansions were unfinished. As was his tower. Erin had promised him a new one. But since it wasn’t there yet, he’d built his own.

The Worker happily sat in the small circle of nailed-up boards and stared up at the night sky. The dark-birds were out. They had forgotten he was here. He could hear them squeaking. Erin called them bats. He called them dark-birds. The Worker watched them flit about.

Below, in the inn, he could hear laughter. Partying. Twice now, Erin had come up to ask if he wanted to come down. But he had refused. He sat up in his tower and hummed.

“La, la. I am back. I am home. And home is where I roam. Home. Not alone. I am back and I am happy. For I am Bird and Bird is me.”

He raised his bow and an arrow. With a twang he released and a bat landed on the roof, skewered. The bats above him fled as Bird began loosing arrows.

And lo, the age of peace upon those with wings ended, and the time of great death returned. The hunter of the skies had returned and all who flew trembled at his presence. Bird raised his mandibles.

“It is good to be home.”





6.60


“Tell me something, Ylawes. You’re a [Knight], right? In that case, don’t you have an order or society or whatever? They’re all over Terandria, but you’ve never talked about one.”

Dawil twisted on his saddle to address Ylawes. The Dwarf peered at his friend, leader, and junior in years. Ylawes looked up, caught with a mouthful of sandwich.

He was eating a local delicacy. That was to say, toasted baguette-like bread packed with all manner of vegetables—succulent, like roasted butternut squash lathered with actual butter, finely chopped green onions, carrots—all of which were generally roasted or fried in fats. This was because at no point had anyone seen fit to add meat to the bagel, instead trusting to the natural goodness of the warming meal.

It was more like eating a pocket-dinner than your typical sandwich. Dawil watched Ylawes chew and swallow. After a moment, the [Knight] wiped at his mouth; he’d taken off his gauntlets to eat. Then he looked at Dawil.

“What?”

“Your order, lad! Where’s your knighthood order?”

Ylawes gave Dawil a long and blank look as he fumbled with his water flask. He uncorked it, took a swig, and wiped at his clean shaven jaw.

“I don’t have one. It’s not mandatory, you know.”

“Really? I thought it was.”

The [Knight] gave Dawil a pained look. The two were riding horses. Ylawes rode a proud charger, a properly-trained stallion suited to combat. It wasn’t his personal mount; he’d purchased it at the last town they’d been through from one of the ubiquitous stables that crossed Izril. It was a lucky find; some other [Rider] must have been forced to sell their horse and Ylawes had paid in gold at once to have it.

Dawil was riding a pony. It was a good pony, suited to long-distance travel. Plus, ponies were good for their endurance, intelligence, and they needed less expensive feed than some horses. Plus, they were short which was good because Dawil, as a Dwarf, was short. Not that short; he was still over five feet tall, but it did cut a comical sight, him riding next to Ylawes much higher up.

The [Knight] frowned down at Dawil. Dawil frowned at Ylawes’ lunch. The [Knight] paused.

“Dawil, you’ve known me for what, six years?”

The Dwarf scratched his beard.

“Yeah.”

“And not once have I ever mentioned my order. Or returned there. And you’ve been to my home. You’ve met my family. And insulted my parents.”

“That was an accident. It could have been a compliment.”

“Asking if my father was taking a new wife is not…”

“Your mother was pleased.”

Ylawes shook his head.

“My point is that not once have I ever mentioned an order.”

“Yeah.”

“So doesn’t that answer the question already?”

Dawil gave Ylawes a long look. At last, the Dwarf shrugged.

“Okay, why don’t you have an order?”

The [Knight] sighed. But it was a clear day, the road was long and slightly overgrown, and they were done with their latest mission. Ylawes still had a bit of rust on his armor and he frowned at it. He took another bite of his sandwich as he absently tried to find a cloth with his other hand.

They’d been fighting Metalbite Slimes. Not good for adventurers carrying armor, but the slimes had been multiplying in an iron ore mine and the nearby village was desperate to have them gone so their [Miners] could get back to work. And the Silver Swords championed causes like that, even at a cost.

Ylawes was tired from fighting with a quarterstaff—he wasn’t about to risk his sword against Metalbite Slimes, enchanted or not! He rubbed at his armor with the cloth, praying the enchanted metal hadn’t lost too much of its enchantment or metal.

“It’s just not necessary, Dawil. I’ll grant you that I could have joined an order, but I never needed to.”

“What, they let you become a [Knight] just cause you walked up with fancy armor and a shield?”

The Dwarf laughed. He was hunting for his lunch. His pony looked up as he fished a carrot from his saddlebags. The Dwarf stared at it and fed it to the pony. Ylawes shook his head.

“I’m a [Lord]’s son. I practiced with weapons growing up, I have my own vow to defend people where I can—I fulfilled the spirit of my class. I never needed an order. With that said, I’ve had offers.”

“I don’t doubt it. Knight orders were always recruiting back in Terandria. Send your child to become a [Knight]! If they’re talented. And noble. Or just rich.”

Dawil snorted. He came up with a sandwich loaded with bacon. Ylawes eyed it. The Dwarf saw the look.

“My sandwich. You can eat your plants.”

“I don’t want it. But did you have to badger the poor village to kill a pig for you?”

“I paid. And they were only happy to do it! We rid their mines of slimes, Ylawes.”

“They had perfectly good sandwiches. This is delicious.”

Dawil shook his head.

“It’s all vegetables. That’s not a sandwich. That’s bread on a salad. This is a sandwich, like those ones Erin used to make. Truegold and sparksilver, I miss that inn! Those hamburgers and steaks whenever I wanted it?”

He sighed longingly and took a huge bite of his sandwich. Ylawes shook his head.

“We’ll visit again. Maybe if our road takes us towards Celum.”

“Yeah. So you can bother your sister again.”

The armored man frowned at his friend.

“I like to think we did more than that, Dawil. We fought monsters, nearly saw a war—and helped Yvlon and her team.”

“And ate like [Kings]!”

The Dwarf sighed. He nudged his pony back towards the road.

“So, about orders…you’ve never thought of joining one?”

Ylawes raised his brows.

“Should I? The downsides largely outweigh the benefits to me. There are a few on Izril, but you’d know more, coming from Terandria.”

“True! I guess they do tie you down, mostly. How many’re on Izril worth talking about?”

“The Knights of the Petal, the Order of Clairei Fields, the Durengal—not many.”

“Huh. We’ve got like…a hundred.”

Ylawes nearly choked on his sandwich. He coughed and took a drink of water.

“That many?”

“What? It’s a big continent. Why does Izril have so few?”

“Because we don’t live in the era of [Kings] and castles. Izril doesn’t have kingdoms either. Humans may have come to Izril thousands of years ago, but we’re still new to the continent. Well, a bit. Besides, we trust to adventurers and the local nobility to keep the peace. In that sense, they’re probably better here than on Terandria.”

“True. That’s why I moved to Izril. Terandria you have to compete with the Hunter’s Guild and those idiots wearing armor.”

“[Knights].”

“Yeah.”

“Of which I’m one.”

“That’s what I said. Anyways, you should give it a thought, Ylawes. Some of the orders have benefits.”

The [Knight] paused.

“Such as?”

“Well, have you heard of the Irriven Redbloods?”

“No. Why are they called Redbloods? Wouldn’t it be ‘Bluebloods’?”

The Dwarf grinned as he slurped up some bacon.

“Nope. Redbloods. It’s because they’re made totally of non-noble applicants. In fact, that’s why they formed. A knighthood that provides arms and armor for their members and holds themselves to the highest standard of excellence. Lots of orders have perks. Ancient weapons, support in battle, even men-at-arms to fight with you. If you were one of the big orders like the Redbloods, you could sleep some places free, earn items from your order for completing grand deeds—”

“Except that I’m not in Terandria, I’m actually noble, and knighthood orders demand loyalty and don’t usually let their members roam around freely.”

Dawil paused.

“True. But some let their members go on crusades. I’m just asking! Ever fancy taking a bit of paint to that armor and joining the Rose Knights?”

Ylawes kept eating.

“No. What’s brought this on, Dawil?”

The Dwarf scratched his head. He’d taken his helmet off and his hair was still a bit damp from the sweat of combat.

“Nostalgia, I guess. It’s been a long time since I went home. I was wondering if you’d ever wanted to visit Terandria.”

The young man blinked, caught off-guard by the suggestion.

“Me?”

The Dwarf nodded complacently.

“Well, we’re a team, aren’t we? I can’t just run off for a few months and leave you with that half-wit. And Terandria’s safer, but there’s always work for Gold-rank teams. We could visit the mountains, maybe buy some new weapons, even visit said half-wit’s home while we’re at it…”

Ylawes winced and glanced ahead. After a moment he paused.

“I’d never thought of it. Certainly, it’s an option…”

“Think on it. I like Izril, but I want to be back on Terandria in the next, oh, five years.”

Ylawes smiled faintly.

“You have my word on that. But that’s still a roundabout way of asking me, with knighthood orders as the premise.”

The Dwarf shrugged.

“Oh, I just like talking about them. They’re like nose hairs, you know? Each one different and in a different place.”

“That’s disgusting!”

“Well, some are interesting! They all do different things and while some are for one kingdom, a lot are autonomous. [Knights], they have their own culture. They duel each other, get into fights—totally different from Izril! For you, it’s a class, but over there it’s culture.”

Ylawes finished his sandwich and looked at Dawil.

“Really? I’ve met other [Knights], including some of the Order of the Petal, but as you say, it’s just a class here. What happens in Terandria?”

“All kinds of things! Some knighthood orders start wars, or go on grand quests! Surely you’ve heard about the time the Order of the Thirsting Veil quested for thirty years to retrieve the Scepter of Krakens? Or—how about the Order of Seasons participating in Daquin’s game with the Titan of Baleros?”

“I heard about that last one. But as I say, you only hear some stories about other continents. What’s this about the—”

Ylawes and Dawil were chatting animatedly now, and as a consequence, riding a bit faster. Their horse and pony caught up to the rider ahead. She turned in the saddle and the third member of the Silver Swords, who had been listening to their chatter with half a pointed ear, turned her delicate features at last and glared.

“Would you two mind? I’m on a call right now!”

The two other Gold-rank adventurers slowed and gave Falene abashed looks. Well, Ylawes did. Dawil just rolled his eyes.

“You’ve been talking for the last half-hour, Falene Pointyears. Why can’t we talk?”

“Be silent I’m…no, Bashea, I do apologize. My teammates are speaking. Males. And adventurers. Quite ill-mannered. Do forgive me.”

The half-Elf [Battlemage] flicked her fingers at the [Axe Champion] and [Knight]. Ylawes sensed the silence engulf Falene and her horse. He looked at Dawil. The Dwarf cupped his hands to his mouth.

“If you could do that before, why didn’t you, half-Elf? I’ll tell you. It’s because you’re nosy!”

His shout startled several grouse nesting ahead of them. It was so loud in fact, that it must have been audible even through Falene’s weak silence spell. She turned and glared at him. Dawil settled back happily. Ylawes gave him a look.

“Do you have to bother Falene at every opportunity, Dawil?”

“Yes. Because she’ll keep her nose so high in the air she’ll end up smacking her head against her horse’s arse if I don’t.”

Ylawes had to snort and looked away quickly. Dawil nodded. But then Ylawes turned back.

“Still. She’s on an important call.”

Dawil looked at Ylawes sidelong. After a moment he reached out and patted Ylawes’ knee.

“There’s nothing my words can do to ruin whatever Falene’s asking about, lad.”

“Don’t call me lad. You’re thirty. By Dwarf standards, you’re younger than me.”

The Dwarf ignored that.

“The trouble’s dealt with. Miss Springwalker informed us after they got rid of those Wistram [Mages]. Plus, she’s not the one they’re after. Your sister, I mean. She’s fine.”

Ylawes clenched one fist.

“It seems like the Horns can’t catch a break. I understand going after Pisces for…his [Necromancy], but attacking an adventuring team in Liscor? That’s criminal! And my sister? If we weren’t so far away—”

“That’s Wistram for you. Don’t worry about it. Yvlon’s fine.”

“Her arms are still damaged. Ceria didn’t say anything about them.”

“They’re fine.”

Dawil was a good liar. Ylawes made his horse trot a bit faster, restless. The Dwarf opened his mouth, and then closed it.

For a while, the Silver Swords rode in silence. The Human and Dwarf watched Falene speaking in her bubble of silence until at last she finished. They knew she was done because she took a finger from her temple and straightened; beyond that, there was no flicker of visible magic. The sound of Falene’s mare walking abruptly returned to the world as the half-Elf released her spell.

Falene was scowling, a rare open expression of displeasure when she finished speaking with her contact in Wistram. She looked at her companions and shook her head.

“I’ve just completed my discussion with my fellow [Mages] in Wistram, Ylawes.”

“And? Can you reverse this bounty on Pisces? Or do something about this team stalking the Horns of Hammerad?”

The [Knight] leaned over his saddle. Falene just pursed her lips.

“No. And, apparently, my influence isn’t even enough to merit a conversation with someone higher-placed in the Revivalist faction, let alone an Archmage!”

Dawil and Ylawes exchanged a glance. The Revivalist name was foreign to them, but they did know the basics about Wistram.

“What’s the issue?”

“Aside from the fact that Wistram was very reticent to give me any details about Ceria and Pisces until now? Oh, simply a blanket ban on any information regarding this Wistram team! Bashea—my friend—assured me that they were acting in Wistram’s best interests, but she wouldn’t tell me why Wistram had sent five full [Mages] all the way to Liscor! In fact, she kept hinting that I should return to the academy to learn more!”

The half-Elf, always dignified, or at least, invested in keeping up that bit of half-Elven myth, flicked her hands angrily. If it was Ceria, she would have spat or cursed. Dawil raised his brows.

“This Bashea doesn’t trust your spell, Falene?”

“She should! It’s our personal [Message] variant. She and I studied together! We were roommates! She’d tell me anything—but something has her silent. I asked about recent events in Wistram and she kept telling me to come back. Something’s happened in Wistram.”

“Does it involve my sister and her team?”

Ylawes was worried. Falene sighed, turning to him.

“I doubt it, Ylawes. But it frustrates me. Perhaps I should go back. Six years is a short time for so much to change in the academy, but…well, perhaps it would be a worthwhile trip. If you plan on going to Terandria, that is.”

“Aha! I knew you were listening in!”

Falene flicked her fingers and shot a bit of colored smoke into Dawil’s face. He swore and waved it away. Ylawes looked at his two friends.

“Maybe. But it’s my sister I’m worried about, Falene. Ceria contacted you.”

“Yes. By Mage’s Guild, so I cannot even send her a [Message] back directly. She really must learn that spell. But then, she is only a third-year student. Something else Wistram did not tell me the first time!”

Falene gritted her teeth. then she sighed again.

“I’m afraid I cannot help you, Ylawes. Or her. The faction backing Montressa du Valeross’ team is the Revivalists, and they’re at odds with my faction, the Centrists. I put in a few strongly-worded remarks, but I’m afraid that won’t change anything.”

She looked frustrated, and not even Dawil made a crack this time. Ylawes clenched his jaw, helpless. Falene paused. And a slight smile played over her lips. Dawil frowned.

“What?”

“If it’s any consolation, I might have been unable to help, but apparently there is someone in Wistram who took objection to the treatment of Ceria and Pisces. Amusingly—it had little to do with them being hunted and all with the terminology of the bounty on Pisces.”

“Really? Why?”

Ylawes tried to recall the bounty Yvlon had recited. It had certainly cast Pisces in a bad light, but he couldn’t think what had upset this [Mage] in Wistram. Falene tapped her lips, smiling.

“Have I ever mentioned the…keeper of Wistram? You know that we employ Golems for many menial tasks.”

“Sure. You kept mentioning how one of them would be better than me.”

Dawil grunted. Falene nodded.

“Well, the leader of these Golems is…sentient. And disturbing as she may be, she is invaluable to Wistram. A very troubling figure, but one even the Archmages must treat against. Her name is Cognita.”

“A Golem has a name? And it thinks?”

Ylawes had heard of that, vaguely. Falene nodded. She hesitated, and then smiled.

“The nuance is hard to grasp as I was not there for the incident, but I gather that while Pisces Jealnet and Ceria Springwalker were exiled, Cognita granted them the authority to call themselves graduates. However, the bounty on the two claims both are not, as did Wistram’s team.”

Dawil and Ylawes looked blankly at Falene. Neither one understood the half-Elf’s amusement.

“So?”

The half-Elf looked from face to face and sighed at her companions.

“So. She apparently objected to the inaccuracy.”

“So? Aren’t the Revivalists led by an Archmage? One of the lizards, right?”

“Archmage Nailihuaile. Yes. And I understand Cognita objected to her. Personally.”

Ylawes began to catch onto Falene’s smile. He looked at the half-Elf.

“What, exactly, did this Golem—this Cognita’s objection entail?”

“Well—”



—-



Aaron Vanwell, known to some as Blackmage, guest of Wistram Academy—first guest that was, since other Earthers had been found and returned to the academy—was working on a new construction. A battery, fueled by both magic and the science of his world.

Magitech. He was using crystals formed of magicore exposed to almost pure mana, worth a fortune, while trying to combine it with the principles of a lead-acid battery, which he’d engineered with some of the other Earther’s help. The breakthrough was one that surpassed both individual technologies.

With the ingenious magic of Wistram’s [Mages] and the superior—vastly superior energy-hoarding qualities of materials from this world, they’d combined it with the technology of batteries, the understanding of electrical polarity to create something that could charge lightning spells.

They’d created an artifact, in fact. Something so powerful even the Archmage who’d helped Aaron make the orb, the Lamia Archmage Nailihuaile, had been impressed. Even given the expensive costs of making so many prototypes!

And that wasn’t all. With more people from Earth, Aaron’s world had opened up. He was no longer a single captive, but one of many. He was working on a plan. An idea to combine more Earth-technology with this world’s resources. He carefully, carefully, began to insert the new battery he’d made—miniaturized from the orb that Montressa had taken for field testing—into the armored glove painted red and gold of course—

The door slammed open. Aaron jumped and the battery went flying. Archmage Nailihuaile, also known as Naili, caught the sealed battery in the air with a wave of her staff. Then she looked at Aaron.

“Hey! I’m gonna borrow your bed, alright?”

“What? Archmage Naili? Is everything ok—”

Aaron blinked as the Lamia, her scales translucent in places, glowing with accumulated magic, slithered over to his bed. In one hand she carried the Serkonian Lance, treasure of the Lizardfolk, which could create a magical field where she could effortlessly link spells, change the very nature of mana in the air, and also fire devastating lances of magic, hence the name. He’d also seen her use it as a backscratcher.

Now Naili tossed the staff under the bed and bend over, wriggling under Aaron’s bed. He stared at her tail.

“Um, Naili—”

“I’m not here! Shh! If she knocks, I’m not here!”

The Lamia waved frantically at Aaron. Bemused, he turned towards the door. The Lamia Archmage was by far the most relaxed of the four Archmages in Wistram. Feor and Viltach were older and far more…stately. Naili by contrast was lighthearted, joking that just because she’d grown older and become an Archmage, it didn’t mean she had to be stuck-up and crotchety. It made her popular. By contrast, the fourth Archmage, Amerys—

Someone knocked hard on the door. Aaron jumped and saw the bed jump. He looked at the door and heard a voice.

Deep, smooth. Without hesitation or flaw, like the owner.

“Archmage Nailihuaile. I would speak to you. Aaron Vanwell, will you open the door please?”

Cognita. Aaron looked at his bed. He hesitated. The Truestone Golem, warden or perhaps caretaker of Wistram, one of the most powerful constructs ever built, was standing outside his door. He was fascinated by her. And a little frightened.

He knew what the final test of Zelkyr was. And he had beheld the four guardian Golems, of which Cognita was fifth and most deadly. Even so, he raised his voice.

“Um…she’s not here, Cognita—”

“Aaron Vanwell. Open this door.”

The young man paused. He slowly got up. From under the bed, Naili shouted.

“I’m busy, Cognita! I told you—”

“This matter will not wait. Open the door, Aaron Vanwell. I would dislike damaging it.”

The [Mage]/[Engineer] hesitated. Naili shouted.

“I’m really busy! I’m uh, having sex!”

Aaron stared at the bed. There was silence from outside. And then Cognita punched a hole through the door.

It wasn’t like a movie, where the door exploded outwards. Cognita hit the door so fast and hard her fist went through the wood, sending only a small pocket of wood flying across the room. Aaron jumped—and Cognita’s arm twisted. It gently unlocked the door and pulled it open.

“I didn’t even lock the door!”

Aaron protested. Cognita slowly moved the door open.

“It was enchanted to stay closed unless the lock was turned, Aaron Vanwell. It will be replaced. Please step aside.”

She walked into the room. Aaron did exactly what Cognita said; she had a way with words. Or perhaps it was simply her presence.

To behold Cognita was to see art come to life. Eight feet tall, carved of pure white stone, finer than even marble, Cognita looked like the height of perfection, a statue of a woman made beautiful beyond belief. And yet, she had a quality that went beyond even statues, for she was alive. The folds of her dress, sculpted of stone, moved as she walked, and the stone of her body moved like flesh and cloth.

She was perfection, made by an [Archmage] thought dead to the world. Archmage Zelkyr, who had ordered her to protect Wistram and test every [Mage] who might ascend to the higher floors where he had once gone and never come back from. Cognita had held Wistram thusly for over a century. She was beautiful.

And terrifying. Especially to the [Mages] who knew her test that no one had ever undertaken and lived. She walked towards Aaron’s bed without hesitation.

“Archmage Nailihuaile. We must speak. Now.”

Reluctantly, a scaled hand poked out of the bed. Aaron saw Naili drag herself out, grumbling. She slithered upright, staff in hand and looked at Cognita warily.

“I was busy.”

“This will not wait. As I stated when you fled—”

“I had to go to the bathroom?”

“—when you fled, Pisces and Ceria Springwalker are graduates of Wistram. [Mages] of Wistram. To claim otherwise goes against the authority placed in me. I gave them that right.”

Naili twisted her staff in her hands. She looked at Aaron and he knew he should leave. He backed towards the door, but slowly. He wanted to watch. Secrets were currency in Wistram and this was probably big.

“Montressa and her team made a mistake.”

“Her team attacked the two [Mages] on the pretext that they were not [Mages] of Wistram. That is an error, as is the bounty placed on Pisces. It must be rectified.”

The Lamia looked restless, glancing towards the door and curling up her long, serpentine lower half.

“Really? But that’s so much work. You know, we’d have to send a correction, make a tiny update, and after Tiqr, that’s really not—”

“Archmage Nailihuaile. That was not a request.”

Aaron froze. Cognita’s voice was almost always perfectly level, without the variance in tone that came to people with lungs or mortality. But the calm threat that appeared in her tone was anything but soothing.

He saw Naili look up. Aaron expected the Archmage to…well, he didn’t know. Protest, or deflect. But he saw Naili’s expression change as Cognita looked down at her. Her carefree smile vanished and she stood a bit taller, though she was far shorter than Cognita.

“It was an accident, Cognita. Do you want me to pull Montressa’s team as well?”

“Their pretense is false.”

The Star Lamia shook her head.

“Only the part about them not being Wistram’s [Mages]. They were expelled, after all. And Pisces committed a serious crime.”

“Is Wistram now accustomed to changing sentences passed?”

Cognita’s voice was ominous. Naili looked up at her and bared her teeth.

“No. But Pisces Jealnet committed more crimes since leaving Wistram. Which gives us every right to apprehend him.”

The Truestone Golem looked down at Naili and Aaron swore he saw her raise an eyebrow a fraction. She did not look pleased, but her tone was neutral again.

“That is your reasoning. Which you are entitled too, Archmage. However, Mage Pisces and Mage Ceria are graduates of Wistram. So I have named them. I would request that detail be changed.”

“You want me to make a correction and send it to every Mage’s Guild in Izril? Over something so trivial?”

Cognita nodded once.

“Wistram’s Archmages are within their rights to act how they please in almost any situation. This is not one of them. I am a servant of the academy. And its keeper.”

Archmage Nailihuaile paused. She looked up at Cognita for a long moment. Aaron had seen Naili annoyed, laughing—petty and childish too. But in this moment, she reminded him of Feor, whose faction Aaron had managed to evade. Feor’s faction had custody of some of the Earthers. It wasn’t that Aaron couldn’t talk with them, but it was…complicated.

Naili’s voice grew softer. She looked up at Cognita and then slowly tightened her grip on her staff.

“Out of curiosity, what would happen if I refused to honor your request?”

Aaron saw her eyes narrow. The serpentine pupils contracted and Naili’s posture sunk, as if she was coiling up to strike. Not like a Drake with fury and rage from their distant ancestors. This was cold and calculating. Dangerous.

Cognita stared down at Naili. She did not react, but her tone grew a touch deeper.

“I would be forced to insist. If you wish to voice your objections, Archmage, please do so.”

For a second, the air in the room pressurized. Aaron, sensitive to magic, felt a wave coming off Naili that turned his knees to jelly. For a moment, the Archmage didn’t look playful at all, or afraid. She looked up at Cognita and the Truestone Golem stared back. Waiting.

And then—Naili threw up her arms, laughing.

“Kidding!”

The magical presence vanished. Aaron stared as she slithered past Cognita, sighing.

“So scary! Jeeze, if I have to do it, I have to do it. Alright, fine. Feor’s going to be so mad at me. Viltach too…but I guess we all know who’s really in charge of Wistram, huh?”

She glanced over her shoulder at Cognita. The Truestone Golem ignored the jibe. She walked after Aaron.

“The [Mages] of Wistram control the academy’s will, Archmage Nailihuaile. I am simply the academy’s protector and test. I object to one issue. The right of Wistram to imprison its own [Mages] is their prerogative. I only ask for consistency in Wistram’s rulings. And acknowledgement of truth.”

Aaron heard a light laugh from Naili as she waved her staff at his door. The wood flew back into place, resealing the door. She turned to Cognita with a big smile.

“You say that, Cognita, but sometimes I wonder if you don’t have those fingers on the scales. All our scales. Admit it, don’t you change what happens sometimes? Why are you working so hard for Pisces? Aren’t you a teensy bit biased?”

This time, Aaron saw Cognita react. The barb must have landed or something else displeased the Golem. Because Cognita’s marble eyes narrowed just a fraction.

“I would appreciate my neutrality remaining unquestioned, Archmage Nailihuaile. That the Golems of Wistram take no sides beyond the covenant we have been given by our creator is to all faction’s advantages. Insinuations to the contrary are troubling.”

“Oh yeah? But how could you prove that I’m wrong?”

Cognita looked down at Naili. After a moment, she spoke.

“If I truly wished to change Wistram as I pleased, I would listen to Archmage Amerys’ requests to free her. I respect the will of the academy. Archmage, please do not test my respect.”

Naili froze. She looked back up at Cognita. Then she silently opened the door and slithered out. Aaron let out a huge breath as he watched Naili go. Cognita turned and nodded to him.

“Aaron Vanwell. I apologize for the disruption.”

“Uh—no problem, Cognita.”

The young man watched Cognita go. Breathless, he stared at her back. Then, slowly, he stared down at the unfinished gauntlet on the table and the battery. He hesitated.

There were four Archmages in Wistram at this moment. Not three. Aaron knew it because he was in Naili’s personal circle in a sense. A guest in one, but privy to knowledge. He understood the significance of this knowledge, even if what he understood was how much he didn’t understand. But he knew Archmage Amerys was present.

He’d met her just once. And she was no Cognita, no ageless Golem who guarded the secrets of magic with death as the consequence of failure. She was just a Human woman. But he had met her.

She scared him greatly. He wondered if a magictech gauntlet, the technology he was developing, would work in the cell where she was being kept. It was just a thought. But Blackmage, Aaron Vanwell, knew he was a prisoner.

Him and all the others. There were eighteen so far. And nine more found and on the way. They were prisoners. Or guests. Well-treated. But he hadn’t been allowed to leave the island. In truth, he wasn’t sure if Naili and her faction were friends. If he agreed with everything Wistram was doing; he and the other Earthers were guests. There had been talk of letting them try to be adventurers, or visit other places—with supervision.

He wondered about the King of Destruction. And whether lightning worked on Cognita. Naili said it didn’t. But she was also asking him to build a lot more than a lightning orb. A projector, for one, so everyone could watch movies. She was addicted to the movies on the Earther’s devices. But she also wanted more. So did Feor, Viltach—all the factions that had ‘claimed’ an Earther.

What was one person to do amid it all? Wait. Learn. And listen. Slowly, Aaron bent over the glove and inserted the battery. He stared at it. And for a moment, all the thoughts that weighted on him vanished. The glove was ready. Contained in one palm was harnessed lightning. Enough to fuel at least one or two spells.

Aaron stared at the bright metal. The power emanating from the magical battery. Then he put it on. He flexed the glove, lifted it up and lightning crackled, arcing through the air where he’d created a magical path for it to follow. He took a deep breath. Intrigue, danger. But this world was still so cool. He looked around, but no one was there.

And you had to say it once.

“I am Iron M—”



—-



The actions in one location rippled to the next. In a way few could ever understand, small actions in one place could affect grand narratives in others. Sometimes, a grain of sand could change the course of history.

Other times it couldn’t. It was just a grain of sand. Actually, in most cases grains of sand didn’t affect much, unless they flew into the eye of conquerors at just the right moment to make him blink and fail to parry a blow, or the edge of the cliff. You couldn’t tell. That was the point. Who knew what grand schemes or petty conflicts would change everything? That was the Butterfly Effect, the terrible truth of causality and the whims of fate.

While running, Ryoka ate a bug. It had nothing to do with anything, except that she’d been asking the wind to blow in her face to cool her down and it had included a bug.

It was a bad bug, though. Ryoka knew the moment it hit her throat that it was alive, big, and wanted out. She paused, gagging, and felt it squirming, fluttering its wings as the moisture in her throat caught it. It scratched at her as she clawed at her mouth and then her waist for water.

By her side, Ryoka’s companion looked at her, worried as the City Runner danced about, half-screaming. The first mouthful of water nearly washed the bug further down Ryoka’s throat and only pissed it off. Ryoka spat, gagging. And swallowed it.

“Oh god.”

She clutched her stomach. But it was too late. The bug went down and it went down hard. Ryoka debated putting her finger down her throat and making it come back up, but she decided to drink the bug down.

It felt like it fought the entire way to her stomach. Ryoka gulped and gulped as her travel buddy watched her worriedly. At last, Ryoka exhaled, and spat so the awful taste came out of her mouth. It came out with a wing. Ryoka stared at it. Her friend licked her lips and opened her mouth.

“Don’t say a word.”

Ryoka glared at her companion. She got no response, which relieved her. She began running again. After a moment, her companion followed.

“Damn bugs.”

That was the most eventful thing that had happened today. Ryoka’s pace slowed as she reached a town, or maybe a city in the distance. She’d come far. And been running for days. She peered ahead and pointed to the gates.

“Looks like this might be a good place for the night. What do you think?”

Her running partner regarded the town. Ryoka waited for a response.

“Fine. I guess it’s good enough.”

She ran towards the gates. Silently, her companion followed. It was an amiable silence, though, and Ryoka had gotten used to it.

It had been a week since Riverfarm. Since Belavierr. Since…everything. Ryoka Griffin still felt like she’d walked out of a fairytale. And why not?

A week ago, she’d met [Witches]. She’d seen a monster. Or perhaps the most Human woman she’d ever met. She’d seen tragedy, met an old friend. Outrun fire.

And made some friends. Given that she’d nearly died several times, been burned terribly, and also added to her list of regrets that would haunt her until her death, Ryoka considered it was a pretty fair trade.

Friends were nice. And perhaps one ran with her now. Ryoka wasn’t decided. It wasn’t that she was biased about other species, but…well…some people could be annoying.

The first inn Ryoka came to was called Salubrious Sleephome. Tickled by either the word or the terrible name, Ryoka went in. To her surprise, she found it was a nice inn, and the [Innkeeper] was on the floor with his staff, who actually had a decent crowd.

Travellers, mainly. The town she’d come to lay to the north of Invrisil and a bit west—it was a good trading route for some trips and so adventurers, [Traders], and so on were stopping here for the night. The [Innkeeper] was a tall man, who greeted the runner girl and her friend warily.

“Miss Runner! I’m delighted to have a City Runner as a guest. But your friend…”

“She’ll mind her manners. I can tie her up if you want.”

Ryoka kept a straight face as her companion expressed pure disdain for the idea. The [Innkeeper] hesitated.

“Well, I think it’ll be fine. If she behaves herself. You two want to eat together? And a room for the night, or are you still running?”

The young Asian woman grimaced.

“I’m done for the day. And I’ll take one room; we’ll share it. What’s on the menu, can I ask? And uh—can I also ask about the name of this inn? The ‘Salubrious Sleephome’? I haven’t seen someone use the word ‘salubrious’…ever.”

The man beamed at her.

“You know the meaning? Pride and fortune, I thought I’d never meet anyone who was so well-read!”

Ryoka ducked her head. She would have deflected or maybe not even engaged a few months ago, but now she smiled.

“I like books.”

“As do I. I’m actually something of a [Reader]. Between you and me, it’s my passion.”

“Really? There’s a [Reader] class?”

The man winked at her, and suddenly they were friends. He escorted Ryoka and her friend to a table near a roaring fire; she was glad of it, despite the heat.

“Only naturally! [Writers] can’t exist without [Readers]. And before you ask, yes, there are benefits to the class! Mainly centered around reading, but the knowledge of books can be surprisingly powerful! I have one Skill that allows me to translate things I’ve read into semi-competent actions!”

“What? You have to be kidding!”

The man’s eyes danced.

“I became an [Innkeeper] after reading a book on cooking. Thirty one, actually! I can’t copy the techniques perfectly, but I can create…oh, a quarter’s worth of the actual thing? And with practice, that’s enough to allow me to cook a great deal! And that’s not all! Fencing, magic—it’s all more accessible thanks to my class! But I will own, it’s not a useful class as say, a pure [Warrior] or [Mage]. But I can live in the pages. They come to life! Have you ever wanted to stand on a battlefield?”

Ryoka paused.

“I did once. But I’ve seen the real thing and I can’t say I want to now.”

The [Innkeeper], who was named Quin, paused for a moment and grew serious.

“Ah, that is true. But a battlefield in stories is different. Incredible to behold! Or—sometimes—a terrible mess. Confused and as impressive as watching children flailing around with sticks. It all depends on the quality of the [Writer], you see. Good writers make the story come to life. Bad ones…but look at me drone on! If you’d like to take a book, I offer them to my guests so long as you treat them with respect.”

“That’s amazing.”

Ryoka smiled at Quin. He nodded, and opened his mouth to continue. But at that moment, Ryoka’s companion whined loudly. Runner and [Innkeeper] looked down.

“Sorry about my friend. Shush, you!”

“No, no. I’m being a poor host. Miss…Ryoka, was it? My kitchen is open to you! And I have a large menu! I may be a poorer [Cook], but I can make any dish I’ve read about and I’ve taught my [Cook] all the good recipes. Will you have a menu?”

“I will. Oh—”

Ryoka blinked at the vast menu, and the carefully hand-written words on each. She noted only some of the guests were bothering with the menu; reading might be somewhat universal to an extent, but few took to it like Quin. She eyed the page and pointed.

“What’s the Eldishfish and glossberry sauce taste like?”

“Served with some potatoes and a bit of whatever greens we have on hand this time of year. Eldishfish is rather tough, but flavorful. Glossberries? Vibrant, tart—decently sweet. A good combination.”

“I’ll have that, then.”

“And your companion, Miss Runner?”

Quin might have been the [Innkeeper], but he had a [Cook] and a staff, although he was waiting on Ryoka himself.

“She’s fine. Just give her water and food. Some dried meat? Don’t be worried about her biting.”

Ryoka glanced down at her companion. Said companion looked up at her and whoofed. Quin nodded.

“One moment! I simply must come back and talk to you about books!”

He bustled off and Ryoka stared down at her companion. It was not Charlay. Although her friend did have four legs. And a tail. And she was certainly as fast as Charlay, probably. But Ryoka had to admit, there were some differences. For one, Charlay was a Centaur. And her travel buddy was…

A dog. She was panting and sitting up. Well-trained too; despite the smells in the air, she only sniffed a few times. The wary [Servers] and other guests eyed her, but they were reassured when the dog made no move towards them after a few minutes.

Which was good too, because the dog was huge. Ryoka had seen big dogs before, the ones that looked like they hadn’t forgotten their wolf ancestors. This dog was a match for any one of them. Her tail thwapping the floor and her happy panting on Ryoka’s leg made the runner girl smile despite herself.

“Stop drooling. I’ll feed you. Do you need to go to the bathroom? Toilet? Hm, Mousey?”

Mousey the dog looked up at her. Ryoka realized the [Server] bringing a bowl of water and cup was staring and sat upright, blushing hard. She’d grown used to talking to Mousey on the road.

How Ryoka Griffin had come to be running with a dog was a long story. Or a short one. It wasn’t that long, but context dictated that anyone Ryoka Griffin told the story to be told about her hatred for dogs.

Well, not hatred. She didn’t want them killed, but she didn’t like dogs. Dogs were fast. They bit. And she had used to hate any owner who kept their dog off a leash like anyone who ever ran, let alone ran barefoot did. Dogs could be dangerous.

Ryoka didn’t like dogs. She’d never wanted one. Cats, now cats Ryoka liked. She’d had cats. But, well…

In the days since leaving Riverfarm, Ryoka had run back. Back towards Reizmelt. Away from Laken and the [Witches]. She had seen Belavierr for whom she was. She had talked to Laken, gotten some assurances about the Goblin prisoners. She would return, if only to see what he continued to do, but in truth, she couldn’t stay.

She had spent too long in Riverfarm, in a world that wasn’t hers. She didn’t belong there. She liked parts of Riverfarm. She liked Wiskeria, and Durene, and the [Witches]. Her heart still ached for Nanette. The young [Witch] had said nothing to Ryoka when the girl left. She sat, staring at nothing. And the Goblins—

But Ryoka didn’t know if they knew Erin’s name. She did not know them. And—she had agreed with Laken. Wrong though it was, if they fled, they would die. She would let the [Emperor] try his plan. As for the rest?

She was simply tired. Laken’s world was filled with dangers worthy of an [Emperor]. He had a [Lord]—Yitton Byres—as a travelling buddy! It wasn’t the world for a City Runner. Ryoka had left.

“I forgot to talk to Lord Byres. Well, what would I say? I punched your daughter once and she nearly died in Liscor because…he knows she’s alright. I think.”

Ryoka remarked to Mousey. The dog licked her leg. Ryoka yelped.

“Stop that, you!”

She tried not to smile. She didn’t like Mousey. But the dog had been with her nearly a week. Ryoka had thought it would be such a trial, but the two year-old dog had been a perfect companion. Far better than a Centaur. But Ryoka already missed Charlay.

Charlay had bid Ryoka farewell days earlier. The Centauress had to go too; she’d stayed with Ryoka through fire and fury, but now she was restless.

“Plus, I’m faster than you. I could take Mousey, but Ryoka’s too slow. Isn’t she? Yes she is!”

“Stop talking to me like that. And if you pet my head I’ll bite you.”

The Centauress laughed. She trotted down the crossroads, pointing ahead and circling. She regarded Ryoka with a smile, cocksure and impetuous. Not arrogant so much.

“I’ve gotta go, Ryoka. My city misses me! Who’ll be the top runner without me? Besides, it was fun, but I need a break! You attract trouble. I’ll go do some regular deliveries and find you again in a bit. Or we’ll see each other on the road! Count on it, Pukey!”

“Sure, Dusty.”

The Centauress glared at Ryoka and flipped her off. The young woman waved a dismissive hand. Charlay trotted away. Then she galloped back and gave Ryoka a hug.

“I’ll see you soon. You were pretty brave.”

“You too. I’ll look for you in on the road.”

Despite herself, Ryoka felt her eyes sting. Which was silly. But Charlay was…it was so odd, but Ryoka remembered to hug back. The Centauress sniffed.

“You jerk! You have to cry too! It’s what friends do!”

Friends. The word made Ryoka smile. Strange, but true. She glanced up as the [Server] hurried out.

“I’ve got some meat scraps here. Mostly gristle, but we’ve a few bones. Chicken bones, mainly…”

“Raw? I can’t give her cooked bones. They’ll splinter.”

Ryoka had been told that, along with a lot of other information for the trip. The [Server] nodded.

“Sure. She’ll eat them.”

The [Server] nervously put the bowl on the table and Ryoka put it on the floor. Mousy stood up, practically drooling over the bowl, but she looked to Ryoka first. The young woman gave her a nod.

“Eat, Mousey. Kalde.”

The dog dug her face into the bowl and began devouring the food. Quin came out as the [Server] exclaimed.

“She’s so big. Where did you get her?”

“She’s from Radivaek kennels, isn’t she? There’s no finer place for dogs on the continent. But she’s a mighty specimen even so. Was that a special command you gave her?”

Quin gave Ryoka a knowing look. The City Runner nodded.

“Her name’s Mousey. That’s a signal that means she’s allowed to eat. She won’t eat without.”

Mousey perked up her eats and licked her chops as she stared up. She looked at Ryoka, Quin, and the entranced [Server] and went back down to her bowl. Her tail thumpthumpthumped the ground.

“Can I touch her?”

“Scratch her belly.”

Ryoka smiled as the [Server] bent. Quin made a sound—clearly thinking of hygiene or his customers—but the [Server] was already scratching and Mousey tried to roll over and eat at the same time. She panted, and Ryoka tried not to smile.

Ryoka didn’t like dogs. But she’d found a small place in her heart for her companion. Especially after she’d seen Lord Gralton and the Radivaek lands the Oldblood Drakes had attacked.



—-



Lord Gralton Radivaek had been called more beast than man. Wild, savage, a barbarian compared to many [Lords]. And that he was a [Dog Lord] only added to his image of some neanderthal of a man, rabid, unpredictable. That was what Ryoka had heard of him.

But it was unfair. Rumor had twisted fact and exaggerated truth. For when Ryoka Griffin visited Gralton’s lands after three days of travelling north from Riverfarm with Charlay, she found him in his kennels.

He was kneeling, his head bowed, as he tended to his dogs. She saw his bare shoulders, the rougher, stained clothing. She could smell him as she paused in the kennels and the [Servants] announced her. Charlay was staying away; she’d borne Eloise here when the [Witches] had flown to Gralton’s aide. She didn’t want to return.

She said it was too sad.

Lord Gralton raised his head as he held a dog, a puppy barely a few months old. It was wheezing, coughing as he fed it. Goat’s milk, letting it lap up the liquid a bit at a time and cough.

The [Dog Lord]’s eyes were red. He had been weeping. His voice was rough as he stared at Ryoka.

“You? What do you want?”

“His Majesty sends his regards.”

Ryoka stopped, hesitating. She bowed slightly. She had not bowed to Bethal. Or Magnolia. But it wasn’t Gralton who demanded it. It was the silent dogs. The half-empty kennels.

Lord Radivaek’s grief.

Riverfarm had been ravaged by fire. Though the village itself had been spared, the Oldblood Drake who had infiltrated the area had sown discord, pitted the [Witches] against [Knights] from Terandria, and let loose a firestorm that had destroyed villages, farms, and so much more. It would be years before the area began to recover, but perhaps with Laken it might recover sooner. But that Drake had been but one of many.

They had targeted the nobility’s lands. And while Ryoka and Riverfarm had thwarted the Drake attacking their lands, other areas had not been so lucky. A Drake had come to Lord Gralton’s lands while he had been absent. But it had not spread fire. Instead, the weapon had been plague.

And poison.

The puppy wheezed again as Lord Gralton stood. He was a big man, and Ryoka saw a bit of that wildness in his eyes. Fury too; no wonder the [Servants] had announced her and fled. But mostly grief. He stared at her.

“You’re that City Runner that Laken said he could trust. Griffin.”

“Ryoka Griffin, Lord Gralton. That’s right. Laken sends his regards. Riverfarm is secure. They have the Drake’s body. He—asks if you need assistance.”

“No. The [Witches] already left. Said there was nothing more they could do. You—you’re not much for someone an [Emperor] trusts. What do you want? Just coming to deliver a message? If so, get—”

Gralton growled, but the puppy in his arms coughed again. Ryoka heard it, deep, wheezing. She saw Gralton lower his head. Instantly, his growing anger changed.

“Does it hurt? Here. More milk?”

He cradled the puppy, offering it more to drink. The puppy whined, a soft sound. Gralton bent his head. Ryoka looked at him as the little dog buried its head into the crook of his arm. Coughing. He rocked it, until it began to breathe slower. Sleeping. Only then did Gralton look up and his fury was extinguished. Wordlessly, he walked over to a little bed and laid the puppy there.

The kennels were like no animal rescue or even shelter Ryoka had ever met. No rows of cages obviously, but Gralton had built a paradise for dogs. Some sections were neatly divided to allow breeds to be cordoned off or allow aggressive or troubled dogs space, but there was also space for dogs to run, toys like leather balls, beds, brushes of all kinds for fur, even an area for training, equipped with well-worn padded armguards and dummies made of straw to be attacked.

The kennel was massive, and it could have housed hundreds of dogs without even crowding them. It had a massive staff too, trained to handle the canines from raising them to caring for their medical needs and training them, whether as shepherds, companions, or for battle.

But while Ryoka was certain the kennel was usually full of life and probably, barking dogs playing or running about, it was deathly silent here. Only a few attendants were present, tending to quiet dogs. And the animals were silent, huddled together.

Death had swept through this place. Gralton turned to Ryoka, wiping roughly at his eyes. Ryoka looked at the puppy, still laboring to breathe.

“Poison?”

“That damned Drake. It got the wells. It got the water—put poison in the air—no one noticed. Damn idiots! The dogs knew. But the Drake must’ve flown about. Lost the scent. I got it after Laken told me it was there. But it was too late. Lots of people died. But the dogs. They had no part in this! Those bastard Drakes. I’ll kill them. All of them!”

Gralton’s hands clenched and unclenched. He would have roared, but the dogs in the kennel were watching their master. A few came up and Ryoka uneasily backed away. Gralton gave her a sharp look, noting her unease. Then he bent, smiling, and scratched a dog who came up, panting.

“You don’t like dogs.”

It wasn’t a question. Ryoka shuffled her bare feet.

“I have a history with them. Some have tried to bite me.”

“That’s because they’re poorly trained. Or their owners are worthless. These ones won’t bite unless they think you’re a threat. And they deserve more. I should never have left. Damn Godart and Byres. If I’d rode north without them—!”

One of the dogs flinched back from Gralton’s voice. The [Lord] instantly lowered it.

“I’m sorry. Here. Come here, Mousey.”

The dog leapt into his arms, panting, licking his face. Ryoka stared at Gralton. He was a different man with animals. Her, he stared at, with a lot more intelligence than she’d been led to expect.

“Then again, I’d never have known it was Drakes. Damn thing was invisible.”

“You…got the Drake?”

“My dogs did. Shame I didn’t have a head. But we know. The Drakes will pay.”

Gralton’s eyes narrowed. Ryoka paused. He was patting the dogs, letting them circle around him. Lean in. It was strange. But Ryoka felt like she was at a wake, like the one Riverfarm had held for their dead. The dogs knew what had happened. Just like the people. They were mourning.

“I’m sorry.”

“For what? You bring the Drakes? I heard you helped with the [Witches]. And if they hadn’t been here—that other Centauress, she outside?”

“Charlay? Yes.”

“Huh. In that case, stay if you want. Those damn [Witches]—helped. The old one, with the medicines and tea? Lots of the little ones wouldn’t have lived if not for her. They might even last longer, thanks to her brews.”

Some wouldn’t. Ryoka saw that too. Some of the dogs had lived, but barely. Poison and plague had cut lifespans, damaged lungs. But if Gralton was half-beast, the man part of him could be grateful. Or the dog part. And she felt for him. How could you not? After a moment, Ryoka felt a head on her knee and jumped.

One of the dogs—Mousey—was staring up at her. The dog was panting, and she looked interested in Ryoka, but her tail wasn’t wagging. After a moment, the young woman bent. She held a hand out and gingerly reached for the dog’s head to pat it. Mousey stepped back and Gralton snapped.

“Don’t do that!”

Ryoka froze. Gralton glared at her.

“Greet her first. Mousey, seddigore. Let the dog get to know you. She’s battle-trained; don’t scratch her head first off! That’s asserting dominance and warhounds don’t like that. Dead gods, woman, don’t you know anything about dogs?”

“Sorry. What do I do?”

“Hold your hand out. A fist, not an open palm. Hold still. Let her sniff you. There—keep low, don’t stare her in the eyes. If she lets you, pet her belly. And don’t raise your voice.”

“Like you?”

The young woman glanced up. Gralton snorted.

“They’re used to me. They understand me. They don’t know you. And you smell like a bunch of things they don’t know about. [Witches], for one.”

Ryoka Griffin glanced up, startled. Gralton just stared at her. Not a dog trapped in a man’s body, oh no. But a man who’d learned something of dogs. She wondered just how good his nose was. She wondered what Skills a [Dog Lord] gained.

“So Laken’s rebuilding?”

“That’s right. Yitton Byres is still there, but he’ll ride towards his estates within the week. Laken is organizing his village. There are a lot of refugees.”

Hundreds already. Possibly thousands. More people were coming to Riverfarm, which had survived the fires. Also because they’d heard there was work. Safety. Despite the [Witches]. Gralton grunted.

“Fine. What about the Goblins?”

He looked sideways at Ryoka, fishing in a belt pouch for a treat. The young woman paused.

“They’re separated from Riverfarm. Laken is having them watched, but they have their own area. They haven’t all run away.”

“So there’s a point to how long we took getting back. Fine.”

The [Dog Lord] sat, scratching a huge—Ryoka had to think it was a wolf, although the dog looked more like a bulldog. But was massive. It came over and Gralton laughed as it walked right up to him. He looked up after a while, and saw Mousey was rolled over as Ryoka scratched her belly.

“You staying? It’s late.”

“If you’ll have us, we’d take a bed. We wouldn’t want to—”

“Stay, then.”

Gralton snorted. Ryoka shut up. After a while, Charlay trotted in. She looked around.

“Oh. They’re better now. Hey, Gralton.”

“Centaur. Watch your hooves.”

Ryoka found herself sitting with Charlay and Gralton as more dogs came over. They were warier of Ryoka than Charlay. There was a bright intelligence in their eyes, more so than even dogs in Ryoka’s world. Gralton just snorted when he saw Ryoka’s surprise.

“I’m a [Dog Lord], woman. You think that’s a pretty name? [Beast Trainers] turn their animals smart. Strong. My hounds think. They remember a friend and they aren’t idiots. See?”

He nodded at Charlay. A bunch of dogs were mobbing her for attention, licking her. The Centauress was giggling.

“Stop that! Stop that! I feel like I’m going to be eaten! Hey, wait—that’s my tail! Back off or I’ll kick!”

Ryoka found herself smiling. Then she looked at Gralton. He almost smiled back. She looked at him, amid his half-empty kennels and the dogs and ducked her head.

“If we’re imposing—”

“Stay. I owe Laken for the [Witches]. You uncomfortable around dogs?”

He jerked his head at her, a challenge. Ryoka hesitated.

“These ones are alright. And I do know a team of adventurers who own dogs.”

“Really? Which ones?”

A light appeared in Gralton’s eyes. Ryoka shrugged.

“The Pithfire Hounds.”

“Never heard of ‘em. Silver-ranks? Bronze?”

“Silver. I ran a delivery for them once. They…lost a dog fighting monsters. Their entire team got hurt. It was just—”

The [Dog Lord] raised his head.

“Did the dogs do the fighting while the adventurers stayed back? Or did they run and let the dogs stay back?”

He stared at Ryoka. Her mouth went dry.

“No. All of them were fighting. And another dog survived. They like dogs. They’ve been grieving their friend. It was an emergency. Wailer Frogs.”

It occurred to Ryoka that whenever she talked, she tended to have a big mouth. Charlay had said as much. Gralton relaxed slightly, listening to the explanation of the battle. He looked at Ryoka again.

“You run emergency deliveries to adventurers. Makes sense why Laken called for you. Here—feed Mousey this. And tell her—kalde. That means she can eat.”

Ryoka did. Much to her surprise, she found herself sitting after an hour, playing with dogs, and then throwing a ball. They didn’t live in the kennels; in fact they often ran outside, hunting or playing. Gralton allowed them to do just that, and after a while, Ryoka realized she was staying the night with Charlay.

Lord Gralton ate there, in the kennels, sharing his meal with any of the dogs who wandered over. He’d barely left it since returning home, apparently. He relished the company of the animals. Not exactly as equals—Ryoka saw him calmly stop an overeager husky who kept trying to jump up on her. He led them as naturally as breathing. And he was kind to them.

Humans not so much. Gralton gave orders like a [Lord] and he ruled—Ryoka heard him snapping about redigging wells that night—but he clearly loved animals more than people. Still, he had a soft spot if you looked.

“You’re still the worst person with dogs I’ve ever seen. You have to be dominant. My hounds will walk all over you.”

He informed Ryoka as he reprimanded another over-aggressive dog. She flushed, but Gralton was looking at her speculatively. And when she left the next day, he gave her a gift.



—-



“So the dog’s yours?”

“I’m just delivering her. Her name’s Mousey, by the way.”

“Mousey? She’s so adorable!”

The dinner with Quin was mostly filled with talk of books—most of which Ryoka had never heard of—and Mousey. The dog attracted attention. And she was trained. Gralton had assured Ryoka she wouldn’t spook or disobey commands, but Ryoka was impressed. If anything, she’d been the one who needed coaching when he let Mousey go with her.

“I’m going north still. Towards Reizmelt.”

“Really? You wouldn’t happen to be willing to carry a delivery north, would you? I have a letter I’ve been meaning to send up towards First Landing…”

Quin looked sideways at Ryoka. It was a common question, so the City Runner just smiled.

“I can drop it off at the Runner’s Guild there if you have it by morning. If anyone else has a delivery north, I can run it that way.”

She slept that night in the Salubrious Sleephome. Mousey curled up on the floor, and after a moment, Ryoka opened one eye.

“You can climb up if you want. Up, Mousey?”

The dog looked up and then leapt onto Ryoka’s bed. The City Runner looked around, embarrassed. It was odd, having an animal with you.

“Don’t get used to it. You’re a delivery. I’m not keeping a pet.”

Then she closed her eyes. She still didn’t like—

Mousey sneezed on Ryoka’s face. The City Runner opened her eyes and the dog licked her face once.

“Don’t push it.”



—-



Reizmelt looked like Ryoka had remembered it. But it was strangely inviting after all this time. The City Runner slowed her pace as she ran through the gates. It had been a long run. She inhaled as Mousey, panting happily, wagged her tail. What neither runner nor dog were prepared for were the shouts from atop the gates.

“Oi! Wind Runner!”

Ryoka glanced up, startled. Some of the [Guards] on duty were waving down at her. She blinked and then raised a hand. They usually never stopped her.

“Something wrong?”

“Nothing wrong! But where’ve you been blowing off to? Haven’t had a breeze like this in a while! And where’d you get the dog?”

The woman on the gates shouted down at Ryoka. The young woman blinked, and then grinned.

“From Lord Gralton! Say, are the Pithfire Hounds in Reizmelt?”

“I saw them just today! Mind blowing us a breeze? It’s getting hotter around here! Summer’s beginning!”

A gust of fresh air hit the battlements of the wall and the [Guard] laughed. Ryoka waved as she ran into the city, bemused, but feeling—good. But that wasn’t the first time people called out to her. Let alone the last!

“Wind Runner! Wind Runner!”

Children who spotted Ryoka went shooting after her, begging for a breeze to go surfing down the streets. A few people Ryoka recognized waved at her and asked about the dog. Ryoka found herself slowing, explaining. So many people seemed to remember her. Mousey panted, letting people pat her or offer her treats.

It took a while for Ryoka to get to the Huntress’ Haven. When she did, she found Mad Madain sitting in his inn. It was empty, as usual. The man was removing meat from the bones of a deer he’d killed on a table. He looked up as Ryoka came in and blinked.

“Well, if it isn’t Miss Windy and—a dog?”

He stared at Mousey. The dog stared back and opened her mouth. Her eyes locked on Madain’s bones and the blood and meat. Ryoka blinked.

“Hi, Madain. I’m back. Don’t worry about the dog. She’s not staying long. Is Fierre here? Alber still around?”

“Yeah, they’re somewhere. What’s with the dog?”

“She’s a delivery.”

“Huh.”

Madain stared at Mousey. He looked at the dead deer.

“Is it hungry? Want a bone?”

Ryoka smiled as he picked up a large thighbone and tossed it at Mousey. It hit the floorboards and the dog stared at it, and then at Ryoka.

“Kalde, Mousey. Go on.”

The dog leapt on the bone. Madain blinked. He stared at Ryoka.

“I heard you went on a big delivery. Bunch of crap down south. You alive? Missing any more fingers?”

Good old Madain. Ryoka waggled her right hand at him and then lifted one of her remaining digits. The [Innkeeper]-adventurer stared at her and then laughed.

“Your room’s upstairs. Piss off!”

One of his good days, then. Ryoka nodded and headed upstairs. Mousey followed her with the bone. Ryoka shucked off some of her gear and stared about her room. It was untouched. Madain hadn’t even bothered to change her sheets. She sighed. But then she smiled.

“I’m back.”

Mousey wagged her tail for emphasis. Ryoka paused and looked at her. Then she smiled.

“Time to complete my delivery, huh, Mousey? Don’t worry, you’ll like them. Come on!”



—-



“Ryoka Griffin?”

Levil, Captain of the Pithfire Hounds and [Pyromancer], looked up and gasped when the door to the Adventurer’s Guild in Reizmelt swung open. A few other teams glanced up. They stared at Ryoka. And then at the dog. Then Lamont, their [Warrior], freshly healed, shot to his feet.

“Miss Griffin! Hey, the Wind Runner of Reizmelt’s back!”

The rest of Pithfire Hounds shot to their feet. They came over, Lamont first. The [Warrior] reached out and clasped Ryoka’s hand. She blinked at him.

“Lamont, right?”

“That’s right. I still haven’t thanked you for saving my life. Miss Griffin, I owe you everything.”

“You’re back on your feet? But your ribs—”

The last time she had seen him, Lamont’s ribcage had been smashed, courtesy of the Wailer Frogs. The [Warrior] thumped his chest.

“I’m freshly healed—my chest is good as new! If there’s anything I can do—”

He was shoved aside by another adventurer, Bram. The [Beast Tamer] was accompanied by the remaining dog of the Pithfire Hounds.

“Miss Griffin, it’s good to see you back! We’d thought you’d switched towns, you’ve been gone so long! We heard all about your run to Walta. And who is this gorgeous creature?”

He squatted down, looking at Mousey. She sniffed him, but warily. Ryoka bent down.

“Mousey, seddigore. Seddigore.”

That meant ‘friend’. Ally. It was what Gralton had used to introduce Mousey to Ryoka.

The dog wagged her tail as the Pithfire Hounds approached, reassured by the word. Makki, the wolfhound belonging to the adventuring team, went still at the sight of the bigger dog. Levil whistled.

“Dead gods, but it’s good to see you, Ryoka! And that dog’s a beauty!”

“I’ll say. And a proper giant too! Makki’s small compared to her!”

Ulica, Keima, and Tally, the three other members of the group, all came over. Ryoka shook hands as the rest of the adventurers squatted down. They were all dog-people. Makki held back as Bram gently introduced the two. She sniffed Makki warily; the larger dog looked to Ryoka and got another seddigore before she sniffed back.

“What’s her breed, do you know? Oh, and where’ve you been, Ryoka?”

Levil couldn’t take his eyes off Mousey. Ryoka smiled.

“She’s an Aldasian-breed mixed with a Izrilian bulldog. Apparently.”

“Aldasians? Dead gods, those are Mothbear killers! Where’d you buy her, Ryoka? Is she your bodyguard on runs, now? Mind you, she’d be good at it. Mousey, you said her name was?”

Keima exclaimed. She was feeling heavy muscle under Mousey’s fur. The dog happily flopped over as the other adventurers gave her a good scratching. She still looked up, panting at Ryoka as the City Runner inhaled. She looked at Levil and his team.

“She’s from Lord Gralton Radivaek. His personal kennels. She’s not mine, actually. I’m just delivering her. Actually, Levil…everyone. She’s for you.”

The Pithfire Hounds froze. They stared up at Ryoka. Levil blinked.

“For us?”

Ryoka nodded. She looked from face to face, feeling a coil of anxiety in her stomach.

“I know your team was missing a dog after the frogs. And I thought…well, I mentioned it since I was running through Radivaek lands. And I was thinking—”

Too late, Ryoka realized that she hadn’t asked Levil and the others if they wanted another dog. She should have, but it had slipped her mind when Gralton made her the offer! She began to panic.

“Look, I knew that Dassa was really special to you. And I don’t want to replace her! I just wanted to—Lord Gralton heard about your team and—I’m sorry, I should have asked. It was—”

Levil smiled. He stood up and hugged Ryoka. She blinked and relaxed. The [Pyromancer] was beaming.

“Dead gods, Ryoka! Don’t apologize! It’s a wonderful gift. We’ll treasure her. From Lord Gralton’s own kennels? We talked about adding a hound to our team like that!”

His team was nodding. Tally looked stunned. The [Ranger] stared at Mousey.

“From Lord Gralton? But he trains the best dogs in the world! The continent, at least! Hey, everyone! Did you hear that?”

Some more adventurers were coming over. They exclaimed as they heard from Tally about Mousey. Ryoka was blushing, but relieved. Bram was beaming.

“An Aldasian warhound? She’s worth a fortune! And she’s smart! Lord Gralton sent her to us?”

Everyone looked at Ryoka. She flushed.

“He’s a big dog lover. Keep her safe, alright?”

Levil nodded solemnly with the rest of his team.

“We’ll do that. Don’t worry, Ryoka. Dassa was the only dog we ever lost. And it was only because we were on the verge of getting wiped that she was in a position like that.”

Bram nodded as well.

“It’s a dangerous life, like being a hunting dog, Miss Ryoka, but not too much more dangerous. Few dogs are big enough to fight monsters directly, it’s true. And it’s dangerous for them, without armor and whatnot. I hear Carn Wolves can be trained, but those are wolves, with fur like steel. But dogs fight smart. They go for the flanks and they can even dodge spells. It’s not always…safe. But if they get hurt, it’s because we were all in danger of dying. I promise you.”

“I know. And I know she’ll love it.”

“You got Lord Gralton to give us a dog just like that? And you brought her all the way here?”

“It—yes?”

Ryoka blinked as Keima hugged her fiercely. Levil grabbed Ryoka around the shoulders. Embarrassed, the City Runner tried to flee.

“It was just—well, just something I thought I’d do—”

“We have to buy you a drink! And we’re in your favor again, Miss Wind Runner! Tell us where you’ve been? You can stop, can’t you? You haven’t been in Reizmelt for ages!”

“I’d love to. But I need to make one more stop. Tonight. Why don’t we all go to the Huntress’ Haven? I have to check in at the Runner’s Guild and let them know I’m back for emergency deliveries…”

Ryoka couldn’t handle all the genuine affection being thrown her way. She retreated towards the door. Levil’s team protested, but Levil held them back.

“Tonight, then!”

Ryoka nodded. She was about to leave when she noticed something. Mousey was trotting after her, head held high, looking expectant. Ryoka paused.

“Oh. Right. Mousey?”

She squatted down and looked at the dog. Mousey wagged her tail, ready for action. Ryoka hesitated. Gralton had shown her how to do this too.

“Mousey, seddigore. Krakka. Seddigore. Understand?”

She gestured and Levil came over. The adventurer knelt and Ryoka showed Mousey his fist. The dog sniffed it.

“Krakka. Seddigore.”

But Mousey kept staring at Ryoka. The City Runner hesitated. She looked at Levil.

“She’s yours. Keep her safe. She’s a really…good dog.”

The [Pyromancer] nodded. He watched as Ryoka got up and backed away towards the door. Mousey looked up.

She followed Ryoka. The City Runner froze. She pointed back at the Pithfire Hounds. They were all watching Ryoka, with mixed expressions. Ryoka bent down again and scratched under Mousey’s chin.

“No, Mousey. Sit. Turt. Turt. This is your team, now. Seddigore, see?”

She got up slowly. The dog whined. She followed Ryoka a half-step and then looked at the Pithfire hounds. Ryoka felt a pain in her chest. She turned her back.

“I have to go. They’ll take good care of you.”

She began to walk towards the door and heard a bark. Mousey was never supposed to bark; it was part of her training. She looked back and the dog stared at her. Ryoka pointed.

“Turt. Goodbye.”

She kept walking. Mousey stared at her back, and then up at Levil. The [Pyromancer] smiled and the dog stared at him, reassured. But then she stared at Ryoka.

“I have to go. I can’t keep a dog. I don’t even like them.”

The City Runner muttered, avoiding everyone’s gazes. She made her way towards the door. She’d never thought this would be the hard part. But Gralton had warned her not to get attached. And she wasn’t. Slowly, Ryoka walked out of the Adventurer’s Guild and leaned against the door.

“I hate dogs.”



—-



That night, Ryoka Griffin saw Mousey again. The dog looked up at her, and then came over to be petted. But there was separation, of sorts. The Pithfire Hounds were already familiar with her, and Makki and Mousey, the two dogs, were both roaming around the inn.

Mad Madain wasn’t used to the crowd. But he tolerated the people and entertained himself by throwing bones for the dogs to catch. Ryoka Griffin smiled a bit as she saw Mousey’s head go up, watching the bones fly. Levil had to remember to give her the kalde command to eat.

“She’s better-trained than Makki. I hear those dog-commands are so they don’t take wrong orders in the field. We’re going to have to practice with her, but she’s going to be a welcome member of the team. We owe you greatly, Ryoka. And we’ll stop by with Mousey as much as we can.”

Ryoka nodded. She turned away from Mousey for a moment. Alber was eating at one table. She’d seen him plying his [Fistfighter] trade this evening. He looked up and nodded to her.

“Ryoka.”

“Hey, Alber. Anything new happen?”

The young man paused. He shook his head. After a moment, he looked at her.

“Nice to see you.”

He went back to eating. Ryoka smiled. Some things didn’t change, and after all the greetings she’d gotten, this was almost a relief.

But some things had changed. Ryoka looked around. She still hadn’t seen one person in Reizmelt, the person she’d been most eager to meet.

“Is Fierre in the city? Or has she gone home, does anyone know?”

“She’s here. Saw her this morning and she paid for the week. Probably working in her secret job.”

Madain grunted. Ryoka looked at him. Fierre’s status as an opener and broker of secrets was known in the inn—the Pithfire Hounds looked confused.

“Is she still working there, do you think?”

“Probably. Girl has more customers. Should charge her more rent.”

“Maybe I’ll go visit her. Levil, it was great catching up, but…”

The [Pyromancer] was nodding.

“Anytime, Ryoka. You’ve got Runner business?”

“And Fierre’s a—friend.”

Ryoka smiled at him. She nodded towards the door, only a bit unsteady after the three drinks she’d had.

“I’ll just duck out. We’ll come back if she’s done for the day. See you—”

“Hold on, she’s not in her old spot.”

Madain interrupted. The [Innkeeper] looked at Ryoka as she paused. He grinned, and looked at Alber. The [Fistfighter] looked up, not as amused by the secret knowledge they shared.

“What?”

“It got blown up. Her last spot. Fierre’s in a new place. Don’t know where it is myself. You’ll have to ask around.”

“What? Her door got—by what? Who?”

The former adventurer shrugged.

“Heard it was a bunch of sewing needles. Girl must have pissed off someone. Maybe that [Witch] she was talking about.”

Ryoka stared at Madain, open-mouthed with horror. Then she turned and sprinted out of the inn. Levil looked at Madain.

“But she’s okay. Fierre, I mean?”

“Oh, sure. Right as rain. Probably had some good healing potions. Way I heard it, she has some high-level defensive Skill. But she’s totally fine.”

“You could have told Ryoka that.”

Mad Madain grinned at Levil.

“So?”



—-



Fierre was working in her new office when there was a pounding at the door. The Vampire girl froze and stared around her room.

It was larger than the previous cubby that had been large enough only for her desk and a cabinet. This new place was located in a less…upstanding part of town, but it was made up for by the thick stone walls, all warded, and the new door.

Twice as thick as the last one and enchanted with more than just protection spells. Even the hail of needles that had gone through the first one would have trouble with this one. Fierre had been organizing her expanded file cabinets. Now she sank back in her chair.

The pounding wasn’t any of her code knocks. Fierre doubted whoever was on the other side could get in, but just in case, she reached for one of her emergency tools. It wasn’t for her; she’d rather get arrested or deal with whoever was on the other side herself. But she had a bag of holding she’d shove her files into and then toss under a concealment charm to keep hidden.

It was a last resort. But for now, Fierre kept silent. She waited, as whomever was pounding on the other side shouted something.

“Fierre? Fierre? It’s me! Ryoka!”

The voice jerked the Vampire girl upright. Ryoka? She stared at the door and rose. But then she hesitated.

It could be a trick. Warily, Fierre stalked over to the door and murmured a word. A porthole appeared in the metal, allowing her to see through the metal. She saw a familiar face, anxiously hammering on the door. Fierre hesitated.

“Ryoka?”

“Yes!”

“What’s the password?”

Ryoka paused. Fierre saw her hesitate.

“Uh—”

The Vampire girl grinned. She threw open the door.

“Come in! Ryoka!”

The City Runner entered Fierre’s new office and stared about. The Vampire girl hadn’t decorated, so her new office was like the last one—a room to conduct secret business in. Even so, there were some trappings of Fierre’s success.

For one thing, a tiny scrying mirror, secured in a soundproof box when Fierre wasn’t using it. And another—a list of bounties on the wall, for information, items, people. Unofficial and official. But what was most impressive was Fierre’s information network.

She had three huge cabinets, and several maps now, showing everything from the influence of the underworld to trade routes. She had a copy of the Adventurer’s Guild bestiary, a list of every [Mage]’s Guild across Izril—and a bunch of unofficial contacts—and a list of favors owed, to her or to others.

“It’s amazing what gold can get you. I spent over half of it, but this is the result! It’s put me on a new level. Now I have a network and I can actually leverage some influence! I’m a name, Ryoka. And I—”

Fierre caught herself. She was babbling as Ryoka sat in front of her desk, staring at all the papers Fierre had pulled out. The Vampire girl stopped and looked at Ryoka. And her exuberance faded.

“I’m sorry.”

“For what? I should be apologizing to you, Fierre. I should never have asked about Belavierr. You nearly died!”

Ryoka looked up. She was still stunned by everything that was new. She hadn’t known about Belavierr’s curse on Fierre. The Vampire girl shook her head.

“No. It was my fault for being careless. Ryoka—the Order of Seasons came because of me.”

The City Runner nodded. She’d worked that out as the two caught up. She inhaled, and bowed her head.

“I know. I wish you hadn’t said anything.”

“I was angry. After I got hit by that curse, I lost my temper and—I’m so sorry.”

Fierre bit her lip. Her pointed teeth dug into her pale flesh. In her room she was more uncovered than anywhere else, so Ryoka could see her pale, bloodless skin. But she had blood; Ryoka had heard at the Runner’s Guild how bad the devastation had been at her office. People were of the opinion that Fierre had barely survived the needles thanks to her door and healing potions and some lucky Skills, but Ryoka knew better.

“I’m sorry. Belavierr was—I’ve seen those needle storms she conjures. Did it—did it hurt?”

The Vampire girl’s pause told Ryoka enough.

“Not much. You know I’m tough. If the needles had been silver, I would have died. But regular metal and wood?”

She tried to shrug casually. It didn’t fool Ryoka. Fierre stared at her friend.

“What about you? You met her. I know the Order of Seasons…failed. And the Drakes! Did you see any of it?”

“All of it. Yeah, I met Belavierr. She was…”

Ryoka hesitated. She searched for words to describe the ringed gaze, the [Witch] who had forgotten how to be Human. In the end she shook her head.

“…A monster. I thought she wasn’t. But she was a monster. The Order of Seasons was right to go after her. I think. I don’t know. If she was anything, it was true to herself. And she did love someone. Her daughter. It’s just that she cares for nothing else. She was—a monster. Not like you or me. In the end, I wanted to like her. But I couldn’t accept what she did.”

Ryoka bowed her head. She looked at Fierre. The Vampire hesitated. You or me. She sat down at her desk.

“I’m still sorry. I wish I’d caught more, quicker. The Drakes. I never expected that. I should have! It came from Manus, the attacks. Retaliation for Liscor.”

“I figured. You know what’ll happen next?”

“Retaliation from the Humans. In time. At the very least, they’ll be sending a bigger army next year to the Bloodfields. They might be too busy with Magnolia Reinhart’s trade war and infighting, but they’re not going to forget this. Then again, the Drakes did a lot of damage economically. It’ll take time to recover.”

“Well, I don’t think Gralton will forget. Or anyone else.”

Fierre nodded. She wanted to ask Ryoka why the girl smelled like dog. And if she really was partners with Dustrider Charlay, like the report coming from Walta claimed. And so much more.

Ryoka wanted to ask too. But she had come a long way. So she sat a moment, sighing. Here, in this office, she could relax. She looked up, and saw two red eyes. Serafierre val Lischelle-Drakle waited. And Ryoka eventually sat up and smiled.

“Some run, huh?”

“Yeah. You know, your ratings have shot up since that run to Walta. Going to Riverfarm didn’t hurt you either, although it’s mostly reputation-based.”

“I have good ratings?”

“Oh yes. You’re getting some attention because you know the fabled [Emperor]. And doing a run for Lord Gralton didn’t hurt either, let alone Lady Bethal. You made your way back here quickly too. Have you…gotten better at using the wind?”

Fierre glanced up at Ryoka. The Wind Runner rested her arms on her knees.

“A bit. How do you know?”

“I have a report claiming you stopped a tornado. Made out of fire.”

Ryoka smiled briefly. Her left foot twitched unconsciously.

“I didn’t stop it. I turned it. I knew I could. Or at least, I thought I could.”

“But if you could do that—did you level up? I mean, I know you don’t. But did you…gain more power?”

The broker watched Ryoka carefully. The City Runner paused.

“Maybe. I don’t level up. But I think I can ask the wind to do more. That’s all. It was a tornado made out of fire, Fierre. I thought it was like hell. There were flames everywhere. And I knew I had to do something. I thought I’d burn up. But I had to try.”

Fierre shuddered. Fire was one of the ways Vampires died. She watched as Ryoka went on. The Asian girl’s face was faraway.

“The wind was different than I’ve ever seen it. Than I could have ever imagined. That’s why I can control it better. Because of what I saw. [Mages] study and try to understand. I guess the secret with me is going out into the world. Witnessing. Experiencing.”

She looked up abruptly and forced a smile. And then—abruptly—stopped forcing it. She leaned back and let out a genuine expletive.

“Fuck. I’ve seen some insane stuff, Fierre!”

The Vampire girl laughed. Because that was Ryoka. Unguarded, the young woman grinned at the Vampire girl. Fierre raised an eyebrow.

“Tell me about it, already! I want to know how bad it was. I visited home and even my father said Belavierr was way too dangerous to mess with. We know about her, you know.”

“Vampires? Why doesn’t that surprise me? Dead gods, Fierre. She was insane. I can’t even describe—”

Ryoka sat forwards, trying to explain what it was like meeting Belavierr the first time. The way she stood so unnaturally and spoke. Fierre listened, jotting down some notes, but mainly hearing Ryoka speak. Talking in her own turn.

“Nothing much’s happened around Reizmelt since you’ve been gone. But you remember those Ogre raids a while back? A band of them coming out of the hills, to the east? Southeast, that is, a good eighty miles. Well, it’s gotten worse. There are multiple bands of them. The bounty’s been upped, but it’s a dangerous area at the moment. I really don’t recommend running there, but there’s gold to be made.”

“Damn. I’ve never seen Ogres. Is it bad?”

“Well, they’re crossing over into Lady Pryde’s domain. Magnolia Reinhart has interests in the region, but the Ogres were hitting unclaimed territory up until now. Some groups got wiped out by adventurers, but there’s two bands you do not want to mess with. Speaking of which—the trade war is biting the lands opposed to Magnolia Reinhart hard. You could earn big money if you can break the Skill she’s got going on.”

“I don’t mess with her, thanks.”

Ryoka spread her arms. Fierre eyed the City Runner for a moment, but she held onto that tidbit and went on, consulting her notes.

“Well, if you don’t like that, I have news from Liscor. A team of Wistram [Mages] got spanked hard. I’ll tell you all about it when I have more solid information—you’re always asking about Liscor, right?”

“I have friends down there. Anyone hurt?”

“No one died. It’s just funny to hear about. Oh, and there’s a bounty, but it’s small sheep, honestly. Wistram had to correct it, which is weird—they sent out a mass-correction. I’ll grab a copy. Let’s see. Some adventurer is killing Goblins too, in the same area as the Ogres. No, wait, a [Knight]. Not just a few; he’s taken out multiple tribes. They call him the Goblin Slayer.”

Ryoka blinked.

“The what?”

“Goblin Slayer. Anyways, it’s just a rumor.”

For a second the young woman looked unhappy. But then she shook her head.

“Anything else?”

“Big? No. I mean, I could go on all day, but that’s all the really interesting stuff. Oh, and one more thing.”

Fierre grinned slightly as she pulled out a piece of paper from the bottom of her file. She presented it to Ryoka with a flourish; she’d been holding onto it.

“I found what you were looking for. I put some money into it.”

Ryoka froze. She stared down at the paper.

“You found them?”

“It wasn’t easy. But they are working as adventurers. And you’re right—they’ve got Magnolia Reinhart backing them. Or some of her staff, I think. I had to tiptoe carefully to get their location but this is it. Semi-permanent; they’ve been seen there the last month.”

Fierre tapped the address she’d written down, and all the other notes. She watched Ryoka’s face change. The young woman inhaled.

“You never said why you wanted them.”

“I—need to meet them. I’d explain, Fierre, but it’s really personal. They’re there?”

“I’d be careful, Ryoka. They’re Magnolia Reinhart’s staff. You said you didn’t mess with her.”

“Yeah. But this is different. I’ll be careful. But…”

Ryoka was staring down at the names. Fierre didn’t understand what her fascination was with a group of Bronze-rank Humans. But then…she waited, watching Ryoka’s face. Hearing her blood flow accelerate. Fierre licked her lips and then caught herself.

At last, Ryoka Griffin looked up. She stared at Fierre, and then put down the paper. She looked at it again, but then slid it over to Fierre.

“Later. I’ll deal with it later. You know, the Pithfire Hounds are at Madain’s inn. And I said I’d try to be back. Fierre, it’s good to see you.”

“You too, Ryoka.”

The Vampire girl grinned. Ryoka smiled and then hesitated. She looked sidelong at Fierre.

“Do you want to go back and have a drink? Talk some more? Can Vampires even get drunk?”

The Vampire girl grinned wickedly.

“Want to find out?”

Then her face fell. She hesitated and Fierre looked towards the door.

“Oh, but I don’t like drinking in crowds. I mean, I would, but with the teeth…”

Ryoka paused. She looked at Fierre as the girl—who was older than her, in fact—sighed. Longingly. Fierre had a wistful look in her eyes. And Ryoka thought of her friends.

Erin. Mrsha. Ceria. Yvlon? Fals. Garia. She had left them all behind. But now, here, she had more friends.

Wiskeria. Alevica? But surely, Charlay. And Levil and his team. Lupp. But her first friend, the person she’d found herself missing because they understood each other sat right here.

Fierre. Ryoka had missed her friend. And she hadn’t known until recently what it was like to miss someone like that. You couldn’t miss what you’d never had. Now, though, she sat back down and put her bare feet up on Fierre’s desk. The Vampire girl stared at them.

“Your feet are incredibly dirty, Ryoka.”

“Sorry.”

Ryoka didn’t take them down. She grinned at Fierre and gestured around the sealed and warded room.

“You don’t like drinking in public? Let’s drink in your new office, then. That’s got to be the most private place in the world.”

Fierre blinked.

“But I work here!”

“So? You own this place now, right? Why not? Unless Vampires can’t get drunk?”

The broker blinked. But then she grinned wickedly, with all her teeth. It was a smile like a Drake’s, but this one was reassuring.

“Oh, we can. It’s just a bit harder. And I know a good spot. Want to grab a bottle?”

“Sure. And let’s say hi to the Pithfire Hounds. You can meet Mousey. The dog.”

Ryoka stood up. Fierre walked over to the door and held it open. She looked at Ryoka and the City Runner looked around as a cool wind blew in from Reizmelt. She sighed as she looked at Fierre.

“It’s good to be back.”





Interlude – Talia


The roads of Izril were not made of stone. In most places, they were dirt, packed and worn smooth by travel, but prey to the elements. It was a sign that Izril had not yet been fully developed. Far from it. While the Drakes and Gnolls occupied most of southern Izril, the Humans who had taken the north had yet to fully claim every part of their half.

Like Baleros, the deserts of Chandrar, and the highest mountains, deepest valleys and caverns and of course, the vast sea, parts of the world were simply unknown. A place for [Explorers] and [Travellers] to seek, or the truest sort of adventurers. The ones who actually earned the class, [Adventurer].

And yet, perhaps it wasn’t that Izril lay unclaimed, but that what had once been occupied land had reverted to wilderness over the passing of countless years. For once, Dragons had flown Izril’s skies. Once, the north had held Walled Cities of their own. But they were long gone. And so Izril was untamed and the roads were dirt by decay as much as vastness.

Not so in Terandria. Many roads were stone, owing to the ancient kingdoms which endured. Memory and tradition in Terandria mattered more. So the roads were stone. In Chandrar, some roads were stone, but the relentless sand and deserts wore down even the most sturdy edifices. And in Baleros? The jungle encroached, and where civilization reigned, there were fine trade routes, meticulously maintained, modern. And where there was jungle, a dirt road was a luxury.

Rhir had roads only behind the walls. If the Demons had roads, well, Talia Kallinad had never heard. Surely they must. But the [Summer Knight], elder sister to Wil Kallinad and potentially heir to the Kallinad family if she married, had never visited Rhir. Someday she would. As a member of the Order of Seasons, she had sworn to champion righteous causes and fight monsters and evil wherever she found it.

As a Knight of the Summer she was even more dedicated to that ideal than her peers. Her nature was fire and heat. The Summer Knights burned like their season, shining brightly and challenging monsters wherever they roamed.

Perhaps it was silly, an old ideal. [Knights]? Crusades? To many, Talia’s class and the ideals of her Order were older, a relic of bygone days when Dragons were plentiful. But there was still a place in the world for [Knights], Talia knew, and not just on Terandria.

And yet, here she was. The young woman’s head dipped, and she gazed down at the horse she was riding. The mare was unaccustomed to her and prone to drifting left across the dirt road. Talia absently corrected her, regretting that her warhorse, a mare trained to fight alongside her mistress, was thousands of miles distant, in the Order of Seasons. But Talia had left the Order, and the road back was long.

Long, and painful. She glanced to one side and saw a flash of silver and green. A [Knight] rode to her left. Not a [Summer Knight] as she was, but a fellow member of the Order of Seasons. He was a [Spring Knight], sworn to the Season of Spring.

Normally, the youngest season, generally comprised of junior knights who were finding their path, were overeager, ready to do what was necessary, as befitted their nature. But at the moment, the young [Knight]’s head was bowed. Like Talia, he was not wearing a helmet, and she could see the anger and shame written across his features. And it was mirrored across the rest of their company.

Nineteen. Thirteen of them were clad in spring’s bright colors, and six in the shining gold and orange and yellow of summer. That was how many [Knights] rode down the dirt trail. Each wore the armor of their Season, spring and summer, and each was armed for battle. Spears, javelins, morning stars, swords, shields, lances—their equipment was as varied as could be.

They were experts in combat, and indeed, the few travellers they met stared at so many [Knights]. But the Order of Seasons was not riding on a grand crusade. For one thing, most of their horses were poorly trained for combat, having been bought from the nearest stables. For another—Talia’s hand clenched as she gently steered the mare back on track—they had been on said grand crusade against evil. And they had…failed.

Nearly a week past, the Order of Seasons had gone to war with one of the greatest enemies of their Order. The Stitch Witch, Belavierr, who had haunted Terandria past the reach of any living memory. To slay her, Ser Reim and a group of [Hunters] had come from Terandria, making use of a grand magic to travel across the world and slay her. Talia and the rest of the [Knights] had come after them, to fight Belavierr’s creations and safeguard Ser Reim and the [Hunters] until they could slay Belavierr.

They had failed. Failed, for treachery had ended the [Hunters]. And the Stitch Witch had threatened the Order of Seasons while keeping hostages to ensure her survival. Ser Reim had died trying to slay her. And so Talia and the rest of the Order had been forced to watch as Belavierr walked away. They had been ordered to avoid pursuing her and return home.

That was the background that led Talia and her company riding across Izril’s dirt roads. Each had fought Belavierr’s minions. Some bore new scars; Talia herself had a nearly-perfectly healed scar on her left leg, from an enchanted arrow that had gone straight through the plain, unenchanted steel of her armor. She didn’t begrudge the slight line of a scar at all, but she was tormented by her failure.

Ser Reim was dead. The [Hunters] were dead. And here she was, thousands of miles from home having failed to slay Belavierr. All that effort and magic and lives! Wasted for nothing!

Her companions shared Talia’s mood. To say they were discontented was to fail to describe their mood in every sense of the word. In fact, in the last seven days, they had barely spoken. But at last, one of them began to speak.

“Brothers and sisters, what shall we say upon our return? I cannot think of how I shall look at my comrades. Nor do I feel worthy of the crest I bear.”

Talia looked up and saw a dark-skinned man, Ser Raist of the Season of Summer, gesturing at his shield. The radiant sigil upon his armor shone in the light as he shifted on his horse.

For a moment, the other [Knights] looked up, surprised at the voice after so much silence. But then they turned to Ser Raist. Talia gritted her teeth. Raist was newest to the Season of Summer out of all six [Summer Knights] present, including herself. She wished he hadn’t voiced his opinions so; it was the kind of thing one of the Spring Knights would have said.

The Season of Summer was like an older sibling to the Season of Spring, usually, and their [Knights] tried to be mentors and teachers, at least in the art of war and valor to their juniors. Still, he was a fellow member of her Season, so she respected his opinion and nodded at him.

“Your guilt is shared among us all, Ser Raist. But as to how we shall return—surely you jest? We must return speaking of what we have seen! Shouting the glory of the battle we witnessed, the treachery and failure. But above all—the glory of it.”

“The glory, Dame Talia? I saw no glory. Only a traitor and the death of one of our finest. I beheld evil, and it haunts me.”

That came from a Spring Knight. Dame Ingrela. She was nearly Talia’s age, but a junior in terms of knighthood; she had taken longer to earn her shield. She looked at Talia, respectful, but haunted. Many of the Spring Knights did; Talia glanced to her side and another [Knight] wearing bright colors of summer shook his head.

Ser Lorell, the most senior of their group, looked around. A few strands of white ran through his beard, but he was hale as the youngest of them. He raised his voice as he echoed Talia’s sentiments.

“Dame Ingrela, I have seen the same evil as you have. And it troubles me as much as any present. But Dame Talia is right. We have seen a story! And we have battled a legend, albeit dark! That alone is worthy of song. When we return, let us speak of that battle!”

He was about to say more, but met Talia and the other Summer Knight’s eyes meaningfully. The only other female Summer Knight, Dame Chise, shook her head meaningfully. Ser Raist and the Knights of the Spring didn’t understand yet, and the lesson should be driven home, not spelled out weakly.

Another [Knight] wearing green was next to speak. He bowed in his saddle, but his face was bleak.

“With respect, Ser Lorell, I would be ashamed to boast of my feats on the battlefield. Or any of our company, as much as it shames me to say. To think we prided ourselves on holding back the Stitch Witch’s creations! Yet, her true aims struck our very heart. But for our failure, Ser Reim might have triumphed. Instead, he lies dead! And the [Hunters]—”

He choked on his words. The other [Knights] bowed their heads. So did Talia, for a moment. They had fought, it was true. It hurt, to think that their battle throughout the night would never be told. Talia still remembered fighting side-by-side with her sisters and brothers as creatures both undead and made of cloth assailed her.

They had held the ground for hours in the darkness, fighting an army of creatures. It was a tale equal to any battle Talia had ever fought in! But in truth, that had just been a diversion, barely worthy of a paragraph, a sentence.

The true tale had been of Ser Reim. Of the [Hunters] and the traitor. Of the Stitch Witch and her daughter. Talia and the other Knights of Seasons had been petty actors on a stage of history. And Belavierr had lived to continue walking down her dark path.

“How can you speak of songs, Ser Lorell? Should we not be castigated for our failures instead? I would resign my shield and arms if the Spring’s Warden demanded it of me.”

Dame Ingrela was shaking her head, her face bleak. Talia looked at Lorell. He waited a beat for anyone else to voice their opinions, and then replied in a steady voice.

“I say we should sing of it, Dame Ingrela! Sing of the evil we witnessed, and shout of the battles we fought and saw done! Or will you say that Ser Reim died a failure? Should we look to our own failures first and speak of woe and terror, or remember the champion who died? What of Dame Essa, or Ser Valliad? Ser Zahil? Ser Pitres? Will you call their deaths wasted?”

The question hit the younger [Knight] and the others riding with them. Talia saw Ingrela’s face drain of color.

“I would never! I—”

Lorell held up a hand. Metal shone off his gauntlet.

“I know you thought only of our failures when you spoke, Dame Ingrela. But remember, all of you. We bear our sins and shortcomings with earned weight. But to sully the valor of our fallen companions? No. When we return, speak first of the heroism you saw. Reflect on your guilt afterwards.”

His words silenced the group. Shame flooded any number of faces. Ingrela ducked her head.

“I have much to learn still, Ser Lorell, Dame Talia.”

“No more than I.”

Ser Raist looked even more flushed. He bowed from his saddle, his face full of chagrin. Talia smiled.

“Don’t fear, Ser Raist. I learned the very same lesson on my first campaign. And if there is anything to be taken from this tragedy—and it is one, a failure so deep it cuts me to the quick—let it be lessons such as these. Let it be levels, that we might not fail a second time.”

All nodded at that. One of the younger Spring Knights, emboldened by Talia’s words, shot up and raised a fist into the air.

“Ser Reim of Summer was a finer [Knight] than many could dream of becoming. Ere we return, let us tell his story to those worthy of hearing it. Let his valor not fade into distant memory and be forgotten!”

“Hold, Ser Eldein.”

Lorell cautioned the young man as some of the other Spring Knights shouted agreement. The others looked at him. The [Summer Knight] looked unhappy as he shook his head.

“I fear that while we may speak of Belavierr to our brethren in the Order, we must keep silent elsewhere. The Stitch Witch draws power from rumor and fear. Those who know of her might well call on her services, make pacts with her in hopes of furthering their lives. Shameful as it must be, the lives of those who have fallen must fade from the memory of most.”

Ser Eldein’s face fell. Talia felt bad for him; he was new to his shield and practically bursting with youthful vigor. He touched the mace at his side, and his face was frustrated.

“For fourteen years, I have trained. Since the age of six! I gained my first level when I was but eight, through the hardest of labors. And I have attempted to improve my skill of arms each passing day since. I won my right to the Order of Spring! And while I know I am poor of levels and equipment, I would face a Demon-kind Giant or a Dragon if my Order called me. I volunteered to lay my life down that Ser Reim would end such an evil. And yet.”

He turned around, meeting Talia’s eyes for a second and he looked at his companions. Ser Eldein pointed over his shoulder.

“I beheld my mortal folly in the gaze of that thing. She conjured an army in but a single night and though she burned and was killed dozens of times, death did not claim her. What is valor, what is honor and courage before that? It is not fair.”

No one could speak for a moment in the face of that. It was true. True, and yet—Ser Lorell replied again, speaking for experience among the older members of the party.

“Life, Ser Eldein, is not fair. Monsters beset the lands, even in Terandria, where our Order is strongest. They multiply in the darkness. And the hearts of men and women—”

“And other species.”

Talia murmured, recalling her visit to Baleros, to Daquin. That had been a different sort of battle, but she wished she’d stayed with Wil and fought the Iron Vanguard a hundred more times. Better that—and she missed her brother. She was proud of him, of course! But she hadn’t seen him for three years before that point. Her duties as a [Knight] kept her from home; the Order of Seasons was her new home.

Ser Lorell glanced at Talia, a bit annoyed by her comment. He went on, stiffly.

“—fester and corrupt. Nations make war. Magic may cause death untold. In the face of it all, the world does seem bleak. But we stand in the face of it. You may well be a blade of grass in front of the scythe, Ser Eldein, and I but a single mote of light in the darkness. But together, we will challenge any foe. It is that or give in without battle. And that is not how I choose to live.”

Dame Chise leaned over her horse. A radiance seemed to bloom around her, even in the shadows of the treetops they were passing under. She was always lit by such light; Talia admired the effect, even if she thought Dame Chise used it too often.

“Remember this day and grow from it. Do you think the Spring’s Warden would falter before such a foe, even one as ancient as the Stitch Witch? Or Knight-Commander Calirn himself? I say to you, I have seen the greatest of our order and they blaze in life as much as Ser Reim did in his final moments. Belavierr escapes death this day, but this is not over. Remember this, Ser Eldein. Forge yourself anew from the memory of it.”

Abashed, the young [Knight] nodded. Lorell clapped his hands together, startling his horse. He looked at the other [Knights], authority ringing in his voice.

“Let’s not speak more of this, brothers and sisters. We have far yet to travel! Ser Eldein, surely something of our current surroundings brings you joy?”

The young man hesitated, but then he nodded.

“Perhaps the thought of more species joining our Order, Ser Lorell. Dame Talia, are you suggesting we recruit from beyond Terandria?”

He relaxed, and some of the [Knights] around him laughed. They rode closer, losing the fugue that had engulfed them. Similarly, the [Knights] abandoned the elevated speech of their order that they adopted, becoming more casual in private.

Talia shrugged.

“I have often thought of it. Drakes and other species lack for [Knights] in large. Why shouldn’t we recruit from them? Each species has their talents. Dame Ingrela, you were at Daquin with some of your fellow Knights of Spring. Didn’t you admire the Iron Vanguard’s resilience?”

“And cursed them. That was a hard-fought battle, for all it was meant to be practice. And I confess, other species have abilities we Humans lack. The Dullahans were especially tenacious.”

Dame Ingrela agreed. Across from her, Ser Thornst, a [Spring Knight], but a veteran one, looked amused.

“Dullahans? One might call every member of their species a [Knight], if not in training or virtue. The armor they wear is part of their bodies, is it not? They seem a mighty species.”

Dame Chise nodded grudgingly.

“They are that. I have fought them on the battlefield proper, and I say they are among the most resilient of species to face. I am told that once, they were considered natural enemies of Dragons. More so than even our orders. Each one wears armor, after all. They were born dragon slayers.”

“Even so, they are a dour lot.”

“Then make them [Winter Knights]! They surely fit in with our coldest Season. I’ve a mind to make a bet who would smile listening to jokes first, one of the Knights of Winter, or—”

A few of the other [Knights] laughed, scandalized. Talia grinned hugely. Ser Lorell was more disapproving, but he glanced at Talia instead.

“Would you consent to having a Selphid in our ranks, then, Dame Talia?”

His voice was disapproving, indicating his thoughts on the matter. Talia’s chin rose. The Order of Seasons were all comrades in arms, but that didn’t meant they always got along, and she’d argued this with her companions many times before.

“Why not? What stops a Selphid from showing as much valor as any Human, Ser Lorell? Besides, it has happened thrice in our order’s history. Once it ended in disgrace. Once in valor. And once, the Selphid, who was Ser Chalica, or Dame Chalica, the records do not indicate which, died in glorious battle holding the Order of Season’s very gates when our enemies brought a vast army against us. Chalica of Spring, they were. And they held the gates until the bodies of their enemies piled up like logs before the axe.”

“One incidence of treachery out of three is hardly reassuring. One in ten thousand of our Order ever compromises their honor.”

Ser Lorell pointed out patiently. Talia tossed her head.

“A faulty argument, Ser Lorell. If we had more Selphids, I truly doubt one in three would be false. Why not let them apply?”

The man shrugged, annoyed by the strident tone in Talia’s voice. He turned, addressing the younger [Knights].

“Even so, the Order of Seasons takes in limited numbers each year. Do we then petition recruiters to travel to Izril, or Baleros or other locations? We already receive enough applicants from Terandria—almost too many! Let us not crowd our ranks with any not deserving of the honor. Such incidents can be the end of a [Knight] order. Remember the lesson of the Crowlende Order.”

Talia folded her arms, but didn’t say anything more. By her side, Dame Chise leaned over and continued the conversation quietly.

“Your fascination stems from the company your brother keeps, does it not, Lady Talia?”

“Perhaps! What of it? I’m proud of Wil. He’s proven there’s more to be gained from other species than not! You know he won a question from the Titan of Baleros?”

“I have heard you speak of it a few dozen times, Lady Talia.”

The other [Knights] looked amused. Talia was either Dame Talia for her rank, or Lady Talia for her heritage. Talia smiled, embarrassed.

“Even so. I have not heard what Wil’s question will be, but he has promised to make it one that favors the Kallinad household?”

“Not the Order of Seasons? We committed over a hundred [Knights] to Daquin! That was not without cost!”

Someone sounded scandalized. Talia shook her head.

“All the costs were paid by House Kallinad, Ser Welte. And Kallinad is a generous supporter of the Order of Seasons. Moreover, we displayed our prowess in battle the world over, did we not? There are recordings of our own facing off against the Iron Vanguard! It was a victory!”

“A victory, aye. But sometimes I worry that our Order commits too broadly. We send lances of [Knights] out, but there was a time when we marched in legions!”

A grizzled veteran [Summer Knight] spoke sourly. Dame Chise shook her head, pursing her lips.

“And kept our own armies. That bears too closely to the foundation of a nation. Our Order has not made war on a nation ourselves in over twelve decades. We fight alongside nations of course, but challenging a kingdom for injustices is entirely different. I pray that function of our Order is never called upon. But recently…”

She trailed off. Ser Eldein spoke up, his cheeks flushed.

“Ailendamus is pursuing war. If they continue their wars of aggression, we may be well forced to choose a side. And I would argue this among any of our peers—it is not in our interest to support a nation seeking to enlarge itself even further!”

Talia coughed and shook her head. It didn’t matter usually, but nationality did influence some of the [Knights] and it was a known fact that Ser Eldein hailed from Calanfer, which was historically opposed to Ailendamus.

“No arguments there, Ser Eldein, but that is not our place to discuss. Nor wise to utter aloud; we are sworn protectors of order, not political creatures.”

The [Spring Knight] flushed and bowed in his saddle towards Talia.

“My apologies, Dame Talia.”

“Perhaps we would be best suited by action. We have a long way to go to First Landing and the harbor back. I am hesitant to race our horses, but if the road is clear, we shall force a quicker pace. Dame Talia, why not scout ahead with Ser Eldein and see if there are any travellers ahead we might disturb?”

Ser Lorell coughed. Talia shot him a glance, but then she ducked her head.

“As you say, Ser Lorell. Ser Eldein?”

She urged her mare forwards and Ser Eldein followed her. They rode faster, breaking ahead of the trotting company. Talia waited until they were a good two hundred paces down the road, and then nodded at Ser Eldein it was okay to speak.

“I don’t believe Ser Lorell appreciates your views on other species, Dame Talia. I apologize if I have put Ser Lorell against you, and for my thoughtless words.”

Eldein’s face was a bit flushed. He was young, with a spray of dark hair, nearly black. He might have been a [Farmer]’s son; he was definitely common-born, unlike Talia and Lorell. Talia smiled at him.

“It’s a point of contention, Ser Eldein. Old arguments. I respect Ser Lorell’s experience, of course. But we rarely work together; he and I were simply volunteers Knight-Commander Calirn chose to ride to Ser Reim’s defense. Call me Talia, by all means, Eldein.”

“Naturally. And it is an honor to ride with you, Talia. Your rise through the Season of Spring is well known! In truth, you have just as much authority as Ser Lorell, at least, I and some of the others think so. Nobility aside; he cannot claim to have fought in a war! But you have!”

“Just minor ones. It’s not an indication of leadership, Eldein.”

Talia grinned, embarrassed, and Eldein tilted his head towards her.

“Even so. Is age the only qualifier?”

The young woman paused and shook her head.

“Perhaps, but I’m hardly a prodigy. I was simply suited for the Season of Summer, and the Spring’s Watcher knew it. No more; I’m not about to challenge Ser Lorell’s authority. He is a solid leader.”

And we’re not riding into battle. Both [Knights] nodded silently. It wasn’t nearly as bad as politics between, say, noble houses or kingdoms, but there was some inner maneuvering in the Order of Seasons. Never too bad; a rivalry between Seasons or a disagreement about…qualification, or how another [Knight] conducted themselves. It wouldn’t come to that with Talia and Ser Lorell. She just didn’t like him that much.

The quick pace of the two [Knights] had led them out of the forest. Now, they saw a few travellers on the road, but nothing that would keep the Order of Seasons from a faster clip. Talia was just about to suggest they return back to Ser Lorell when Ser Eldein pointed.

“There’s a traveller. We might as well ask for news; we’ve been starved since passing through the forests these last two days. And no one was in the mood for it earlier. Shall I?”

“If you’d like. It would certainly distract the conversation. But remember, these are Izril folk, Eldein. Treat them with respect.”

Eldein nodded. He rode forwards and waved a hand at another man on horseback.

“Hail, my good man and thy harvests be blessed! Hast thou time spare to converse with knights-errant upon our ceaseless quests?”

He glanced back at Talia. She covered her face.

“Dead gods, Ser Eldein…”

The traveller looked at Eldein as he drew up his horse. His jaw worked and at last he spoke.

“What’re you on about? Harvests? I’m a [Shoemaker], not a [Farmer]!”

“A figure of speech, sir. Have you time to speak?”

“About harvests?”

Ser Eldein faltered. He was used to Terandria, where people were used to [Knights] and usually had some manner of respect for the class. The [Shoemaker] looked at Eldein, clearly worried that the [Spring Knight] was touched in the head.

“No, Sir Shoemaker. I—we are simply hoping you could speak to us of any news.”

The man’s face cleared and he took off his hat to wipe at his brow. The days were getting warmer; Talia could feel summer in the air.

“Oh. Why didn’t you say so? You want to know what’s happening? Well, monsters, that’s what! Wait, are you going after them or haven’t you heard?”

Talia sat up straighter on her horse. Ser Eldein leaned forwards.

“We have been travelling the last seven-day. What’s this about monsters, Sir Shoemaker?”

“My name’s Belic. Not Sir—seven-day? You mean, a week? Well, if you don’t know—there are Ogres about! I’ve been trying to get back home south; I should have never come north, not with them about!”

“Ogres?”

Talia rode forwards. Belic turned to her and she bowed.

“Mister Belic?”

“That’s right. Who are you lot?”

Belic had caught sight of the group of [Knights] riding up the road. He goggled. It wasn’t that strange a sight in Terandria, but apparently nineteen [Knights] was in Izril. Talia nodded to the rest of the Order of Seasons.

“We are [Knights] from Terandria, sir. The Order of Seasons. What’s this about Ogres? Ser Lorell!”

She waved and the older [Summer Knight] spurred his horse forwards. Belic blinked, already looking slightly overwhelmed. He stared at the colorful armor Talia and Lorell wore and then scratched at his balding head.

“Well—it’s Ogres. Lots of ‘em! You didn’t hear? It’s been the talk of the road all the way from—have you been camping the entire way here?”

Talia coughed.

“We…travelled here quickly. There are Ogres attacking this area? A band of them?”

“More than a band! A damn clan came out of the hills! First it was just a single band, but more and more have been attacking. Lady Magnolia Reinhart has placed a bounty on their heads! Twelve for each head at first. But when the others came, she put it up to sixty three! There’s a three thousand eight hundred coin bounty on the head of their leaders!”

“Sizeable for Ogres.”

Lorell murmured, his brows shooting up. Talia agreed, doing quick math.

“Ogres don’t have high numbers, but even a hundred would be a tidy sum. Have there been that many?”

“Dozens in each group. And yes, Miss Knight, there’ve been plenty of adventurers. But you know Ogres—they’re huge! Most of the Silver-ranks buggered off when they heard how many there were, so the Gold-ranks came for the money. Three groups have been driven off, but the last two forced a Gold-rank team, the Dividenblades, to retreat with a casualty! And killed dozens in a pitched battle with Silver-ranks and a militia outside the city of Phaust!”

“This is more than just a lone raid, Ser Lorell.”

Talia looked at the [Summer Knight]. He was nodding.

“Sir Belic, how dire is the situation? Is anyone doing anything to root out this threat?”

The [Shoemaker] frowned.

“Aside from the adventurers? They’ve pushed back the worst of it and all the outlying villages and such are either barricaded up or empty. Them Ogres only attacked outlying areas. They’re close to Ulta lands. I reckon if they get closer to Invrisil, Lady Reinhart’ll up the bounty or have them all assassinated.”

“But no one is pursing the monsters?”

Ser Eldein looked shocked. Belic gave him a sideways glance.

“They’ll get got soon. Or get lost.”

“But they should be hunted down at once! Ser Lorell, if this was Terandria, a dozen knighthood orders would be dispatching their own to deal with these monsters at once!”

“Izril is different, Ser Eldein. The local nobility protect their lands. And adventurers take on the duties of [Knights]. Which means their safety is weighed against the coin they earn.”

Dame Chise frowned disapprovingly. Belic gave her an odd look.

“It works well enough, Miss Knight. Aside from idiots on the road and the first victims, not many folk are dying. It’s locking down some parts, but a Gold-rank team will finish the job.”

“Or perhaps we will.”

Talia murmured. She looked up and met Ser Lorell’s eyes. He hesitated.

“We have instructions to return to the headquarters, Dame Talia.”

“Surely the Order of Seasons does not ignore monsters wherever they may be!”

Ser Eldein protested. Ser Lorell frowned.

“We do not. But we are ill-equipped for a battle with an entire clan, Ser Eldein. We wear steel; due to the ritual, we were only able to bring…”

He eyed Belic. The [Shoemaker] helpfully shrugged.

“The Gold-ranks seem to be doing a good job. If you want to find the Ogres, anyone’d be able to tell you where the dangerous spots are. Myself, I’m going far away. Good to see you [Knights]. Means the road’s probably clear. Good day to you!”

The Order of Seasons watched him ride off. Then they congregated, arguing fiercely.

“A delay to hunt monsters is almost foolhardy, Dame Talia—”

“If but a single innocent dies, Ser Lorell? Is it not our duty to at least inquire if they’re being hunted?”

He exhaled, but couldn’t argue with that. Lorell turned to Talia’s left.

“Dame Chise, your thoughts?”

“We could alter our path. Let us ask if these Ogres are still a threat at large. If they are, we bear towards them. If not, we continue. Either way, we still lose little more than a few days.”

Lorell nodded. So it was agreed. The [Knights] began riding faster. The next traveller they came across didn’t know about where the Ogres were, but he could point them towards Ulta lands.

“Ulta. Some noble [Lady] rules them?”

Talia frowned. Ser Eldein nodded.

“They’re but a day’s ride away. We could reach the outermost edge and inquire further.”

“We shall, then. Dame Chise, will you aid our speed?”

“Certainly. [First to Battle]!”

The [Summer Knight] raised her morning star. And the company of [Knights] accelerated down the road. They might have been slow on their return home, but with a purpose in mind, they moved faster. It was just a rumor for now; the Ogres might have been dealt with. But Talia rode at the head of the company next to Eldein, urging her horse to move faster.

Even if there was a chance, the Order of Seasons would investigate. If they could save a life by effort, none would be spared.

That was what it meant to be a [Knight].



—-



The first town the [Knights] came to by the time lanterns were lit and they had to slow to avoid accident on the road was fairly prosperous. The company rode in fast, looking for a tavern or inn to get the newest information. Their horses were tired, but the Spring Knights would rub them down and mix a bit of stamina potion into their feed.

As they headed towards the largest tavern, Ser Lorell in the lead, the [Knights] cut off a [Farmer] in their hurry to reach the stables. The man riding the wagon took offense to the group of [Riders].

“Oi. Mind yourself, you idiots! I’m riding here!”

He roared at the [Knights]. Talia was impressed; it took guts to shout at a group of nearly twenty armed people, even if he’d spotted the crests that marked them as [Knights] in the darkness.

Affronted, Ser Lorell pulled up and inclined his head.

“Our apologies, sir. But we are [Knights], investigating word of Ogres—”

“And you think that gives you the right to cut me off? Out of the way!”

The enraged man waved a fist at Ser Lorell. Caught off-guard, the [Summer Knight] hesitated, and then moved his horse out of the way. The Order of Seasons parted and the [Farmer] rolled past them. They stared at him as he glared.

“Next time, obey the rules of the road! Idiots.”

He disappeared down the street. Talia bit her lip, glancing at Ser Lorell’s slack face. That had been an odd experience! Lady Chise was the first to speak.

“This is the domain of House Ulta, a noble family. And these are the lands of Lady Pryde. It seems her people are equally…spirited.”

“So it seems.”

Ser Lorell shook himself. Then he briskly dismounted. Talia followed suit. Soon, all but six of the [Spring Knights] were walking into the tavern. They had a more amicable greeting this time.

“My word! So many [Knights]? What can I do for you, ladies, gentlemen? My name is Keida. Will you be wanting food? Rooms for the night?”

“Good evening, good mistress. A repast would be welcome. But any information about this Ogre scourge is what we seek. How dire are the attacks? Do you know their location or if anything is being done to stop them?”

Miss Keida frowned as she had tables dragged together for the [Knights].

“The Ogres? A horrible mess. Lady Pryde will sort them out, I’ve no doubt. But there’s a few big groups left. All northeast of us, thank goodness. Three day’s ride. Will you be having that food?”

Lorell looked at Talia and Chise and nodded. That was much too far even if they’d been minded to push. The [Knights] began sitting down. Miss Keida was a friendly woman, and her husband got to work at once preparing a meal for so many. The [Tavern Owner] began talking with her guests and the odd incident with the [Farmer] outside came up as a matter of course.

“That would be Mister Chalt, [Knights]. He’s an odd sort. Keeps to himself, but he comes into market time to time. He lacks manners, but there was no ill will in it!”

Keima assured Ser Lorell. The [Knight] paused.

“He was particularly insistent on his way, though, Miss Keima.”

“Shouldn’t he be? He had the right of way. And he insisted on that. It’s a matter of dignity.”

“Hm. Even so—I’ve been told this is land owned by House Ulta. And the ruling [Lady] is…”

“Lady Pryde. We’re all her subjects. People of Pryde. Which means people of pride, Mister Lorell. Be it [Farmer] or [Shepherd], we won’t give up the right of way so easily. I daresay Chalt would have if you’d been in a hurry, but not to stable your horses!”

The glint in Miss Keida’s eyes made Talia love her in an instant. Lorell looked embarrassed. He coughed.

“People of Pride?”

“That’s right. Pride rules in Ulta lands. Pride in what you do, and who you are. Chalt, now, he’s a good example of that. Respected! More than most [Merchants] or rich folk without a lick of dignity; I daresay he could have married well if he wasn’t such a recluse.”

“But he has pride in being…alone? In being insistent on his right to the road? In being a [Farmer]?”

Raist looked mystified as he took a drink of water. Some intriguing smells were wafting from the kitchen. Mistress Keida gave the [Knight] an odd look in reply.

“Pride takes many forms, sirs and madams. It need not be on display. Lady Pryde only asks us to do what fulfills us. Not to live hollow lives. For instance, my boy is aiming to be an adventurer. I wouldn’t dare stop him. I’d be too ashamed to look anyone in the eye! But I am a mother.”

“And adventuring is a dangerous life. Risky. You won’t stop your son from trying?”

Talia replied. Miss Keida nodded.

“Of course! If I did, who would he be?”

The [Knights] glanced at each other. Chise cleared her throat.

“But Miss Keida, what if your son fails? Say he wished to be a [Merchant] but had not the class or any capital. Would you let him pursue that ambition?”

“Of course! Better to do what he wants than not try. If he fails, he’ll pick himself up and try again. If he doesn’t, then he was never meant to be an adventurer to begin with. Oh, I think your food’s ready. I won’t be a moment!”

Miss Keida smiled and disappeared into the kitchen. Raist raised his eyebrows as he looked around the table.

“Seems this entire region acts as their [Lady] does. Ambition and pride over caution and humility.”

The other [Knights] shushed him, but many clearly agreed. Talia liked the idea. She’d heard [Ladies] and [Lords] could shape their domains after them, but Terandrian nobility were still subjects of their monarchs, however powerful. Izril however, had no royalty.

Except for the [Emperor]. Talia wished she could have met him. But then she was distracted by the meal.

“I have enough for everyone and seconds waiting! No, I can take it out myself, and my [Barmaids]! That’s what we get paid for!”

Miss Keida scolded the [Knights] trying to rise and take the dishes. She placed them down with flourishes, beaming. Talia looked at the food, her stomach rumbling. Then she paused.

“All of it’s from our stocks! The salt’s from the Ulta salt mines—the finest in Izril! Pure salt, lovely brines—my husband’s personal recipe. Enjoy!”

The [Tavern Owner]’s cheerful voice hovered in the air. The Terandrian [Knight] stared down at their repast. It was…pickled eggs. Salted pork. Beets—yes, pickled. Some filling dumplings, also made with what seemed to be primarily preserved foods. And pickles. Pickled walnuts, which had turned black from the brine, served on blue cheese—

Salt. Talia looked up, trying to smile. She came from a coastal duchy, but she was used to sea food. Not pickled foods. And indeed, most of the Terandrians weren’t used to so much…pickling. The abundance of magic meant that you could get fresh food; pickles were nice, but pickled foods were an acquired taste.

The only thing that was there to cut the salt was some goat’s milk and fruits. And bread. The Order of Seasons stared at the meal with no small measure of chagrin. They exchanged covert looks, chivalry fighting with taste buds.

The [Tavern Owner] beamed, gesturing at the spread.

“All favorites among the Ulta region! You won’t get better anywhere in the town. And if I might add, good [Knights]? You’ll want to stock up on salt if you’ve a mind to be passing south or east of here. There’s a trade war on, and Lady Pryde’s stated there will be no trade in those directions until proper apology is made.”

“A trade war?”

Lorell murmured, prodding at a huge pickle. Raise was ordering more alcohol. Miss Keida nodded. She frowned darkly.

“They insulted Lady Pryde! Gave her a black rose. As if she hadn’t fought the Goblin King at First Landing! Well, they’ll pay for that. All of them! No salt is going to Reicch, or anywhere north of Veltaim. Unless they’ve got preservation runes, we’ll see how long their stores last without salt!”

“They could always smoke—”

Talia kicked Ser Eldein under the table. She gulped as Miss Keida retreated to get some more drinks for the table. She looked up and met Ser Lorell’s eyes. He was in agreement with her in this, at least. But all the [Knight] did was slowly pick up a cup.

“’Twould be rude to demand a different repast. This is their food.”

“Pride.”

Talia agreed glumly. The Order of Seasons braced themselves. Ser Eldein sighed.

“Pride and salt.”



—-



Fifteen minutes later, Ser Eldein put down his fork and regarded the empty plates. He turned, and with supreme force of will, smiled at the hovering [Tavern Owner].

“A truly filling repast, Mistress Keida.”

“Do you need seconds?”

“No.”

The chorus came from the entire table. The [Knights] were full, Talia included, but at what cost? To distract the generous Miss Keida and her [Brine Cook] husband, they began asking questions about the Ogres.

“Well, Lady Pryde won’t let them attack anyone on her lands. I’ve heard she’s setting off after one war band, but there’s two big ones left. The first is led by their leader, very large, over fifty in total. The second’s smaller, but no less dangerous. Thirty-odd Ogres.”

“Thirty? We number nineteen. It shouldn’t be too dangerous a battle.”

Ingrela mused out loud. Ser Lorell frowned.

“Ogres are strong, Dame Ingrela. Not as thick-skinned as Trolls, but more numerous. What separates them from half-Giants?”

“Their breath?”

That came from Talia. A few chuckles and a glare from Lorell followed. He began a lecture; he was well-studied, at least. Talia reflected that it was Lorell’s specialty; he had a position training many [Knights] in their Season as a mentor. Like her, he hadn’t flinched from a real battle, but he could get…teacherly at times. And she was no student. The Knights of the Spring listened closely, though.

“Trolls are more squat. Tougher, sometimes magical. Ogres are humanoid, albeit monstrous. More intelligent than Trolls. Far, far less civilized than half-Giants, who are but people overgrown. Ogres can be reasoned with and they use tools, or so I have heard from Autumn Knights. But then, even Goblins and Trolls can communicate.”

“Few can. These are clearly monsters.”

Dame Chise’s comments were met by nods all around. Ser Eldein just looked confused.

“Reason with Goblins? With a Troll? Why would one ever do that?”

Ser Thornst clicked his tongue reprovingly.

“Diplomacy is the other edge of the sword we wield, Ser Eldein. Seldom on monsters. But if you ever meet a Dragon, you would be wise to try words first. Not all are evil.”

“Dragons, yes, but Ogres?”

“I do not believe we will be negotiating with these ones. Not after what they’ve done. Ser Lorell?”

Talia’s calm voice made the other [Knight] look up. Ser Lorell nodded calmly.

“With Dame Chise’s Skill, we may reach them in two days. Perhaps more. Perhaps less. When we do, if they are not dealt with, we will hunt them down ourselves.”

“A worthy task!”

Miss Keida had come back. She clapped her hands and nodded approvingly. There was something regal in the way she treated the [Knights]; pride again. But she looked at Talia warningly.

“A word of caution though, Sir and Lady [Knights]. The Ogres are thirty, but I’ve heard they had Goblins too. You might be fighting a lot more.”

She saw a few smiles on the faces of the Order of Seasons. Ser Eldein coughed.

“Miss Keida, your concern does you credit. But we can handle a few Goblins. How many are there? Three dozen? Fifty? If there are any Hobs, we will consider them on rank with the Ogres, but the Ogres are the true threat.”

“Strong foes. If we were less in number or under leveled I would hesitate at the fight. Even so, we will be cautious. How many Goblins do you think there are, Miss Keida?”

The [Tavern Owner] shrugged.

“What I heard was that the Ogre clan had a Goblin tribe. The second war band is thirty Ogres, but who counts Goblins? There were a lot, or so the rumors claimed. You might be fighting sixty. Or hundreds.”



—-



That night, the Order of Seasons slept. They rose with dawn and departed. They moved quickly, following reports of attacks, riding down the road faster than all but Runners and the swiftest horses. But the grim truth was that they were too slow. They had been too slow to save every victim. Before they had come to Izril, the Ogres had struck. And they would strike again before the [Knights] reached them. But that was a reality even the most chivalrous [Knight] had to accept, if not make peace with. Monsters were everywhere.

Usually, and in big cities, they were a distant thing. But to those who lived closer to the wilderness, monsters were a fact of life, like [Bandits], a natural disaster, a wolf attack. Usually they were sporadic unless you lived truly close to a dangerous location. And sometimes, the monsters overflowed and came out. And they tore the illusion of peace to shreds.

That night, they came out of the hills like thunder. Fifty seven strong, racing down on the villages closest to the hills first, and then taking roads, attacking travellers, anything that caught their eye or fancy.

Ogres. A species everyone had heard of, but few had actually seen. They were not the fiercest species around, or possessed of the worst attributes to battle against. But they were imposing. And there were many of them. They raced down the slopes, roaring, armed with steel and pilfered weapons.

Any traveller idiotic enough to be on the roads ran, hearing the terrible bellows. But they were too slow. The Ogres descended, catching horses, tearing into houses and smashing wood and stone with crushing blows from their clubs and fists.

The smallest was over six feet in height. The largest nearly ten. And they were not thin either; they were heavyset, their fat overlaying muscle. Each one would have been equal of Moore. Or larger. But if half-Giants, or rather, quarter-Giants were what Gnolls were, capable of leveling and classes, Ogres were then Raskghar.

The few [Warriors] and people with levels trying to fight them off found they were outmatched. A single Ogre was equal to a Silver-rank adventurer, and short of a powerful bowshot to the head, their skin and the armor they wore made arrows barely more than a nuisance. They had the strength and endurance of monsters, but they fought like men. And they moved fast!

The Ogres struck like lightning, ravaging a village of Lanchestret, which had been forewarned of their attack. They found few victims; the villagers had already fled. A few, a foolhardy hermit, an elderly couple, died in their homes. A pair of travellers on the road met the same fate. The Ogres would have tormented them, but their leader’s snarls and bellowed orders kept them moving. They grabbed all of value, food, animals, and raced back towards the foothills, the Eldessale Foothills, to be precise, where their clan was located.

The foothills alone stretched nearly five hundred miles, not in one stretch, but creating a separation between the eastern coast and the upper-central eastern area of Izril. They had not been widely settled owing to the much easier lowlands. So the Ogres had grown in the hills, adjacent to civilization. There had been incidents before. A single Ogre. A band. Adventurers had removed the threat or the Ogre had vanished. They were one monster among many. Now though, they raided.

The first war band was led by a giant among their kind. A Chief, who wielded a magical hammer stained with blood. He urged his followers to pillage as much as they could. He was furious; the Humans had fought back, killing other groups of his clan. His personal group was one of two remaining.

The second was from a small Ogre clan. They were only thirty in number, but they had Goblins, a tribe they’d enslaved. The Ogre Chief might have considered warring with them, but the Humans were easier targets. So he pillaged. He wanted women, magic, and weapons in that order!

But he was smart enough to know that venturing too far from the foothills might mean death. Thus far the Chief had kept his war band away from more populated Human lands. But this village had been as empty as the last three! Food wasn’t all his clan craved, so, impatient, the Chief ordered his tribe to move north. Towards richer lands. They crossed into the Ulta region.

On the second night, the Ogres hit a farmstead, and then a village. They tore into the place, and the Humans who hadn’t fled died—or wished they had. The Ogres laughed as they retreated towards their hills, taking spoils with them. They weren’t about to stop; emboldened, the Chief was determined to take as much back with him to make up for his losses. He knew the other Ogre group, his rivals, were doing the same, so he and his warriors were already looping back for another raid that night.

On the third day, the first band met Pryde.



—-



The Ogres were eating a [Merchant] and his [Guards] on the road as the sun rose. The foolish female [Merchant] had taken the risk of the road, judging her escort strong enough to deter the Ogres. They hadn’t been. And she had cut her throat as the Ogres crushed the low-leveled Humans into paste.

That annoyed the war Chief. Two of the [Guards] had been female too, but his warriors had crushed their bodies in their bloodlust. He kicked the corpse of the [Merchant] and snarled.

“Open boxes!”

His warriors looked up from the horses they were eating fresh. A pair smashed the contents of the wagons. The Chief stared down at the boxes of rich spices and snarled. He kicked one over.

“Magic!”

He didn’t want spice! Part of him knew that the females would make better food out of it, but the Chief wanted a new magical item. He had his hammer, but it wasn’t as good as the other Chief’s club! The other Ogres ducked out of range as the Chief swung his fists angrily, looking for something to hit.

Then they heard the horns. The Ogres jerked up, staring at the sky. A warbling blast echoed from the west. And then the south. They looked at their Chief. He stared upwards and bared his teeth.

“Humans.”

They were coming. Last time it had been Gold-ranks. Tough to kill, but with precious magic. This time it sounded like many. The Chief hesitated. He wasn’t about to bother fighting an army.

“Go! Go!”

He snarled and the Ogres grabbed what they could carry. They were retreating to the hills. They’d fall on the Humans if they had a moment, disappear otherwise. They weren’t stupid.

But then, neither were the Humans. No sooner had the Ogres began to lope across the ground, fast as any horse, than they heard horns to the east, cutting them off. They instantly switched north. And the horns blew a fourth time.

The Chief halted, breathing hard, looking around him. Each side? How many were there? His mind told him not that many; so many Humans were easy to spot. There was a trick! But which horns were the real ones?

“That way!”

He roared, pointing northwest. Away from the foothills. The Ogres followed him, fifty six streaming after their leader. They were more than a match for an army three times their size. Even the adventurers had fled them! They raced forwards—

And met Lady Pryde’s army. Over a hundred Humans marched behind their [Lady]. They roared as the Ogres stopped, and the [Scouts] deploying false horns stopped blowing. They had coerced the Ogre Chief, tricking him with Skills. Now, the army spread out. The Ogre Chief’s eyes widened incredulously.

Only a hundred? His lips moved as he counted and he looked over his shoulder. But this was it. Barely a hundred Humans against his sixty! He snarled with fury at how they’d underestimated them—but then he brightened.

There were females among the Humans. He could see them beneath their helmets. And even better—his eyes alighted on a woman wearing no armor but a pale yellow-and-lilac dress. He stared at her flawless skin and his groin itched.

“Her. Take that one. Alive! Or I smash your heads!”

He pointed. The other Ogres needed no encouragement. They grinned, advancing. The Humans deployed, spreading out. They had an odd formation; they were fighting along the road, next to some rocky ground that would favor them, but rather than retreat, they’d formed an enveloping position. Half stayed back, and the Chief saw they were armed with longbows. Dangerous, but that left barely fifty Humans to stop more Ogres!

“Ogres! Lay down your arms! If you do, Lady Pryde Ulta guarantees your deaths will be swift! Flee and we will cut you down! You have trespassed on Ulta land and your fate is sealed!”

A voice bellowed at the oncoming war band. A man wearing a bright helmet with a feather was armed with javelins and standing behind a pair of Humans with shields. The [Lady] was hanging back, staring fearlessly at the Ogres. The Chief stared at her, resisting the urge to rub his crotch. He laughed and pointed.

“Kill them. Take the females!”

The Ogres charged. They needed no great speeches. The Humans had clearly wanted one, though. They were off-guard for a moment. The man with the feather rode back.

“[Archers]! Focus your targets! [Shieldwall Warriors], brace!”

The Ogres came at them. They covered the hundreds of feet in moments, racing forwards. The [Archers] had only one chance to loose. They did.

The Chief raised a hand, blocking the arrows aimed at his face. He roared as he felt hot flashes of pain across his body, piercing the crude mail he wore. He turned his head, seeing two Ogres fall. The big bows hurt! But it was two. Far too many, but they were closing.

The man with the feather was raising one of the javelins. Aiming at the Ogres. Forewarned, the Chief ducked behind one of the foremost Ogres and saw the Human shout.

“[Twister Spear]!”

The javelin flew. It spiraled with such force and speed that the Ogre in front of the Chief had no time to dodge. The metal tip of the javelin tore into his chest, and the rotation splintered bone and flesh. The Chief swore as the Ogre fell, dead.

“That one!”

He roared, pointing at the Human with the javelins. He surged forwards. The Human was reaching for another javelin. He threw and another Ogre fell. But then the Ogres were on the first line of Humans. And it was all—

The first Ogre hit the Humans with the oversized tower shields. The club struck at the braced Human and rebounded with a gong of sound. The Ogre stopped, startled, and the Human backed up. She—a large woman whose face was set and grim behind her helmet—backed up, forming a line with her comrades. The [Archers] loosed, hitting the Ogre in the chest. His friends charged past the Ogre. They hit the shields, but their weapons didn’t sweep aside the smaller Humans.

It was like hitting rocks! The charge of the Ogres stopped as the shield-bearing Humans stopped them cold! And the arrows singing from the back ranks were tearing into the Ogres. They battered the Humans, but it was an even match. And the Humans had ranged weapons pelting the Ogre clan.

The Chief roared his fury. He shoved one of the warriors in front of him back, feeling more arrows scoring his arms. He raised his hammer and brought it down on the [Shieldwall Warrior] in front of him. The man raised his shield, whispering a Skill.

“[Fortified Block]—”

The hammer struck the metal with a crash. A bloom of black magic cascaded outwards from the Chief’s hammer. Death magic, striking the Humans and Ogres around them. The Ogres backed up and the Humans groaned. The Chief grinned, delighting in his special weapon. But the Human hadn’t fallen. His Skill had blocked even the Chief’s strike. His knees shook, though. He tried to back up, but the Chief, enraged, kicked past the shield.

There was no second Skill to save the man. He went tumbling backwards and the hammer fell a second time. The Chief felt the crunch, and swung the hammer sideways. Another Human died as the hammer screamed and emitted a burst of blackness. The Chief fought past the front line and the Ogres poured after him.

“Reposition! [Swift Redeployment]!”

The man with the feather shouted desperately. The Humans abandoned their position, retreating, blocking most of the Ogres and reforming a line. But the breach around the Chief was widening. The huge Ogre swung his hammer and pointed.

“Them! Them!”

He wanted the leader and the archers. And the woman. They were unguarded. He surged forwards. The [Lady] watched him as the man with the feathered helmet snarled, throwing another javelin that took an Ogre down. But the Chief came on.

“Milady Ulta, let me—”

“No. Stand down, Beshard. [Archers], kill the other Ogres.”

Lady Pryde Ulta raised one hand. She dismounted from her horse and strode forwards. The Chief stared as she met him, the [Archers] harrying the Ogres around him. Then his lips twisted into a savage grin.

“Human. Female. I like you.”

He loomed over her, ignoring the fighting around him, the screaming Humans and Ogres. He expected the [Lady] to run and shriek. But she stared up at him without fear, only contempt.

Lady Pryde Ulta was a tall woman, and her hair was black. Her cheekbones were high, her posture as imperious as her voice. She pointed up at the Chief, and her voice snapped across the battlefield.

“Ogre. For what you’ve done to my lands, you deserve death. Do your species a credit and die without a fuss!”

He stared at her. Pryde’s chin was tilted. She stared up at him. The Ogre Chief blinked. And then he laughed savagely. He struck his chest, watching her and the man with the feathered helmet behind her.

“I am leader of my clan! Strong. And you—you are mine. This is mine! We—we’ll eat your men and take you. I’ll have you and fuck you until you break. Unless you make me happy. Then I’ll keep you.”

Evil. The words echoed, and the Humans who heard it shuddered with fury. Some of the [Archers] raised their bows, but the Ogres were advancing, and only the desperate fighting kept them back. Lady Pryde’s eyes narrowed. She looked up at the Chief and shook her head slightly. And still, she did not run or look to the other Humans for aid.

“Beast, you would not survive a minute with me, let alone a night. Amusing as it would be to conquer your puny tribe and turn them into vassals, you are far too unsightly for a consort.”

The Chief had not expected that. He flushed with rage. Then he grabbed for the [Lady] with his free hand. His hand shot to her chest—then jerked down.

Something grabbed the Ogre! Something invisible! Around the woman, the grass turned flat, crushed by the same pressure that was pulling the Ogre down. He stumbled, roared.

Weight. Gravity. Pryde raised her hand.

“[Pride is Weight].”

The force crushed the Chief down. It would have killed most Humans; and the weight was more intense the closer he got to Pryde. But he was an Ogre! The monster roared, lifting an arm. Furious now, he raised his hammer. He forgot about his lust and swung with all his might.

Death! The hammer fell downwards. The Humans cried out, and the man with the feathered helm turned. But Beshard was too slow. The Chieftain hit Pryde with a blow that shook the earth. He saw black magic blast outwards and raised his hammer. Instantly, he regretted turning her to paste. The Ogre straightened, feeling the pressure of gravity leave him—

And Pryde was standing right there. The Ogre Chief stared. Lady Pryde Ulta stared down at her dress, annoyed. The fabric had torn across her chest, as had her undergarments. The Ogre saw a flash of pale skin. She eyed her exposed chest, and then looked up at the Ogre. She put her hands on her hips and smiled, mockingly.

“Too much woman to handle, Ogre?”

He gaped. Then he looked at his hammer. Beshard pointed.

“Take the Chieftain down! [Archers]!”

Arrows flew. Now they stung the Chief. He stumbled back, feeling the heavy impacts in his chest. Snarling, he grabbed a healing potion and mashed it in his mouth, swallowing liquid and glass. The wounds healed, but the Chief realized too late that his Ogres were falling. He had to kill the lady and the archers! But there she stood. She had taken a blow from his hammer. How?

The Chief raised his hammer. This time he swung with every fiber of his being. The roar that left his lips made the Ogres look up. They saw their Chieftain strike Lady Pryde. The impact and death magic made the world shake. But when the dust cleared, there she stood.

“How?”

The Ogre Chief stared. Pryde smiled archly.

“[Pride is Unbreakable]. You made a mistake coming here, beast. Die quickly.”

She raised a hand as the Ogre Chief swore at her and swung. The Ogres of his clan saw her raise a hand and block the hammer a third time. And their morale broke. Beshard threw his javelin as the Ogre Chief stared at Pryde.

The cast did not kill the huge Ogre. Nor did the next twenty arrows. But the second javelin, the hail of arrows that struck the Chief and the fleeing Ogres did. The Chief died on the ground. He tried to raise his hammer, but all he could do was stare at Pryde. She stood over him, her dress ruined, but her skin still flawless. She looked down at him.

“You were not worthy of one Skill, Ogre.”

He tried to reply. But there was really nothing left to say. The Ogre died, his mouth pooling with blood. Lady Pryde looked down at him.

The road was filled with Ogre bodies. Some Human, but aside from a few points where Ogres had broken through, the line had held. There were a dozen dead, twice as many wounded, some with shattered bones. But the Humans had routed the Ogres. And the last of them died, brought down a hundred paces from the longbows. Lady Pryde listened as her soldiers issued a huge cheer.

“Lady Pryde! Are you wounded?”

Beshard strode over to his [Lady]. The [Javelineer] and Master of Arms of the Ulta household looked at Pryde. She blinked down at him, and some of the intensity about her faded. Pryde nodded. Then she glanced down at her body. Her dress was ripped across the bodice, down the navel. Exposing, well…everything. The look of haughty contempt faded from the woman’s face and she flushed.

“Oh, I’m exposed. Beshard—”

“My cloak, milady.”

The man instantly unfastened his cloth and Pryde seized the garment. She hid behind it.

“Thank you, Beshard. Are the soldiers well? The injured?”

“Twelve dead, Lady Pryde. The rest have been healed and bones set for a [Healer]. We have won a grand victory! The Ogres are dead!”

The words stirred a cheer from the [Soldiers]. But Lady Pryde only looked dismayed.

“Twelve dead? Too many! Oh, Beshard. Should I have taken twice as many soldiers?”

Her voice was hesitant, guilty. Far from the imperiousness of before. But Beshard knew his [Lady] and his tone was soothing.

“Not at all, Lady Pryde. They would have fled a larger force. And Ogres are a fearsome threat. This is a grand victory; their spine has been broken! Should we pursue the second force, they will be all but crushed! But let us return and mend wounds for today.”

“Yes, of course. Your judgment is sound, Beshard. And allow me to convey my thanks to the brave souls who fought here today.”

The [Lady] inclined her head. Humbly. It was so uncharacteristic that some of the soldiers stared at Pryde. But the ones who knew the [Lady] and her abilities shook their heads.

The dead were seen to and the Ogre bodies left for later. They might become undead, but another group would see to their disposal. Lady Pryde had more important things to do than oversee a cremation. And indeed, her company rode back down the road in high spirits. Pryde was smiling, but she seemed smaller in her skin.

For a moment. But the [Soldiers] riding with Beshard began chanting her name.

“Pryde! Pryde!”

“The [Lady] of Ulta! Pryde has slain the Ogres!”

They were returning down the road. And soon, they came across more travellers. They had scarcely missed the warriors marching down the road, and they let up a cheer when they heard the Ogres had been killed! Pryde flushed at first, sitting on her horse’s back with the cloak preserving her modesty. But that was temporary.

[Pride is Unbreakable]. And too, [Pride is Weight]. Lady Pryde embodied her namesake. She was a close friend of Magnolia Reinhart, but Pryde was no one’s inferior. And soon, the cheers stopped flushing her cheeks. Pryde’s back began to straighten, and the reservoir of ego she had spent in battle returned.

By the time the company was riding down the road leading to Ultase, the largest city of the Ulta lands founded by Pryde’s ancestors, the woman was riding at the head of her group. Her cloak was tossed back, her chin raised. She raised a hand, waving at the cheering crowds following her company. Her [Soldiers] still shouted her name, rejoicing at their [Lady]’s return to normality.

And Pryde abandoned the cloak. Or rather, she wore it properly, around her shoulders rather than covering her front. She didn’t bother to have her dress fixed either. Men and women stared, some for different reasons than pure admiration. But Pryde ignored both. She rode down the streets as her citizens turned out to cheer their beloved [Lady].

“Lady Pryde, if you would wish it, we could find a suitable replacement dress for you. Or hire a [Seamstress]—”

Beshard was more conscious of his [Lady]’s nudity. Pryde turned her head, staring down at Beshard, astonished.

“Halt my return for such a menial task? Or wear garments out of, what, embarrassment, Beshard? Out of the question! We ride on! Have that Ogre’s head displayed—and the hammer he wielded! Let my people know the Ogres will never touch my lands!”

The man bowed as Pryde’s eyes flashed. This was Pryde. Nudity, like shame, bounced off her ego. She rode ahead, possibly luxuriating in the envy, admiration, and stares she received. She raised an arm, holding out a hand to a young boy gaping with his mouth open.

“A [Lady] is a [Lady] in every moment. Whether naked or clothed. Lady Zanthia might say something like that. I personally care not. And shame is not something I feel for my body!”

She nodded at a young girl—possibly the boy’s sister—staring up at her. The girl beamed and waved and Pryde smiled. Beshard sighed. But it was true. This was the Ulta region. And like Pryde, the people believed that pride was a virtue above all others. It dictated society and even after eight years in her service, the Chandrarian man still found it disconcerting. And he was a Stitch-Man, used to swapping body parts!

He tugged at some strings on his cotton-flesh arm that had come loose from throwing the javelins in battle.

“You will encourage your subjects, Lady Pryde. We already have complaints about the nudity.”

“What of it? If they wish to walk around naked, or run, let them. I find it amusing.”

Pryde smiled. It was true that in her lands, there was a population of…nudists. A rarity in any nation, but that was hardly the least of the eccentricities of the Ultanese people. She rode on, waving to her subjects. After a moment, some of her [Soldiers] bowed. The [Longbow Archer], a woman with a flush on her face as she tried to speak to Pryde’s face, spoke.

“You weren’t serious about vassalizing Ogres, Lady Pryde? I heard you say as much to the Chieftain. That would be like Goblins!”

Lady Pryde smiled.

“It was a passing comment. But I did think of it. I’ve heard of Trolls being trainable. Wuvren claims she charmed one, once. But I changed my mind the instant I saw the Ogres. They are far too foul. One wonders what their females are like. Capable of more, I hope.”

The longbowwoman looked at Beshard and he shook his head. It would be like Lady Pryde to try that. He was relieved the Ogres hadn’t surrendered. Pryde, like many [Ladies] was willful, but she was especially bad. She’d once imported a Griffin in hopes of being able to ride it around. And she was still seeking any edge that would establish her superiority over her fellow nobles.

“Lady Pryde, I’m sure your victory will be the talk of the land for a week to come.”

Beshard tried to stoke his [Lady]’s ego. Pryde pursed her lips.

“Perhaps. But I have a mind to destroy this second Ogre band by the end of the week at least! Magnolia has let the adventurers do their work, but too slowly. She is laissez-faire. I demand results.”

The [Javelineer Commander] groaned, but internally. Externally he only bowed.

“I shall see to locating the second band. Your [Scouts] will find them, milady. But may I request we return our dead and wounded? We may need to alter tactics as your shield line is weakened.”

“If we must. I admit, the Ogre with the hammer was a decent bit of entertainment. Find the other Ogres, Beshard.”

“And perhaps we might replace your dress from the wardrobe?”

“Perhaps.”

The company rode back into the town they’d left this morning to thunderous cheers. News had spread, and an impromptu parade greeted Pryde. She took it as her due, and Beshard conferred with the [Scouts] as she retired to the inn. By the time Pryde emerged in a new dress, Beshard had news.

“Lady Ulta, the second band of Ogres may not be a threat.”

“Oh? Have they fled after hearing news of the first group’s demise already?”

Lady Pryde was dining on a pickled egg; the outer parts had been dyed green by the brine, making it colorful and bright. Beshard repressed a shudder. Ultanese food was also a different thing. He turned to the [Scout] and the man shook his head.

“I do not believe they’ve heard of your victory yet, Lady Pryde. Rather, they’re being hunted. By [Knights]! A group of them has pledged to end the Ogres and they’re close to clashing.”

The [Lady] looked up sharply. Her eyes glinted.

“[Knights]? I sent for no knights! Are they from Bethal? Bethal’s [Knights]? On my land, hunting the Ogres without permission?”

Beshard winced.

“No, Lady Ulta. The Ogres are outside your domain. The [Knights] are merely passing through. And they are not the Knights of the Petal. I understand this is a Terandrian group. The Order of Seasons, apparently.”

Pryde’s eyebrows shot up.

“The Order of Seasons? That is unusual. They must be on some crusade of sorts. Nevertheless, they did not inform me of their presence.”

She looked peeved, drumming her painted fingernails on the table. Beshard waited. Pryde had a temper. She could be the epitome of grace. Or furious if she felt she’d been slighted.

Thankfully, she might have still been recovering her full reservoir of pride or sated from her victory, for the [Lady] only nodded sharply.

“Let them take the second group, then. I have assuaged my curiosity and dealt with the Ogres troubling my lands. Magnolia will clean up the rest. Tell me if the Order of Seasons fails. And have them greet me once they are finished with their task. Now, I think I shall take a bath. That Ogre had remarkably foul breath! Summon my [Handmaidens]! Where are they? Entertaining themselves, no doubt. And I am minded to throw a fête in celebration. See to it, Beshard.”

The man sighed. It wasn’t easy being Pryde’s servant all the time. But—he saw the woman smile. And he couldn’t help but copy the expression. It was like serving a second sun. He bowed deeply.

“Your will be done, Lady Pryde!”

And she only smiled.

“Of course.”



—-



The second band of Ogres took two days to track from where the Order of Seasons had begun their search. It wasn’t the difficulty of finding them that posed a challenge at first, but covering the ground the Ogres had on them.

They were quick! Ogres could move as far as a horse in a day if they were inclined and this band had trusted to speed, striking here and fleeing before they were caught. They had a surprising amount of discipline; they looted what they wanted and retreated fast rather than wasting time.

But Talia and her companions had Skills and fresh mounts. More importantly, each [Knight] knew that every passing hour was another dead soul. So they rode, and rode hard. By the time Lady Pryde’s victory reached them, they were certain the Ogres were within the area they were riding through.

“Oh, aye. The Ogres’re up ahead. In the hills, I’ve no doubt. They attacked Crimsal just yesterday. Might come this way. Might not. If they’ve heard about the group that got wiped on Ulta lands, they might flee right off. Be a shame now you lot are here; I’d rest easier knowing they were all dead.”

The [Hermit] who spoke to Lady Talia gestured to the Eldessale Foothills in the distance. Talia bit the inside of her cheek.

“I hope so, sir. We don’t have the time to hunt for their base in such a wide area. But should you not flee the area? We intend to pursue the Ogres, but we cannot guarantee your safety.”

The old man grinned at Talia and laughed.

“Don’t you worry! My home’s concealed by Skills and I’ve got more’n one bolt hole. I wouldn’t have let you know I was here but for the fact that you’re [Knights]. Thought you were here for the Ogres. Maybe you can get them before that other loon gets killed.”

“Other?”

Talia paused. Ser Lorell was waiting for news impatiently as some of the other [Knights] scouted for information. She turned back to the [Hermit]. He nodded sagely, pointing up ahead.

“Thought you knew? He went past my hut not a day ago. On foot. Went off after the Ogres, same as you.”

“A fellow [Knight Errant]? Either he’s one of Izril’s finest or he underestimates his foe.”

Talia was alarmed. The [Hermit] shrugged.

“Think he’s mad, Sirs and Lady [Knights]! He might not even know about the Ogres; it was Goblins he was after! You haven’t heard of him? A fellow in armor, smells to stink he does. Rarely speaks—hunts Goblins day and night? He’s gained a reputation since he arrived! Came from the south, so he did! Out of nowhere!”

“Not at all. Who is this? An adventurer? A [Knight]?”

The [Hermit] paused and shook his head. He lowered his voice.

“Either or neither, Miss Knight. All I know is that he hates Goblins with a passion. They call him the Goblin Slayer.”

The name sparked something in Talia’s mind. She nodded slowly.

“Interesting. Thank you for the information, sir. We may try to catch this person, lest he run afoul of so many Ogres.”

“He wasn’t mounted, so you’ve a chance. Best hunting! Let me know if those Ogres get killed. I hate them. Ever seen their shits on the ground? Worst things. Splashy.”

Talia Kallinad left the [Hermit] behind and reported to Ser Lorell. Ser Eldein, Dame Ingrela, and two other [Knights] returned as well. They confirmed the Ogres were up ahead, but the news about the other [Knight] alarmed Ser Lorell.

“I know Izril has a few orders, but I cannot say there are any great [Knights] to my knowledge. And it would take a great [Knight] such as Teresa the Giant or Ser Alonaid, the [Bow Knight] to face such a horde alone. If this ‘Goblin Slayer’ is hunting Goblins, we should find them.”

“Agreed. Do we ride down the road or take to the foothills, Ser Lorell?”

The Summer Knight hesitated. Talia waited, knowing what she’d order. Ser Eldein glanced sideways at her, but Ser Lorell made up his mind after a moment.

“The foothills. The Ogres won’t stick to the roads after the last group was defeated. They will be more opportunistic. Or do you disagree?”

He stared at Talia. She inclined her head slightly.

“Not at all, Ser Lorell.”

“Then we ride. Mount up! Dame Chise, Ser Raise, in front! Dame Talia, Ser Thornst, choose four and scout.”

The [Knights] took off fast. They were wary of ambush and Talia chose Eldein and a fellow [Summer Knight] to ride ahead, but she knew speed was of the essence. Her Order couldn’t afford to spend a month tracking the Ogres down if they fled into the foothills. She urged her mount into the forest surrounding the foothills, picking a path upwards.

“Gah! My steed can’t handle the terrain. Dame Talia, I fear he’ll break an ankle.”

Ser Eldein cried out as they passed through more dense trees with gnarled roots and stones. Ser Thornst nodded.

“I as well. We’ll have to go on foot unless we have [Steady Hooves] for our mounts or the like.”

Talia frowned, but it was true. And the foothills would be just as bad for riding.

“Dismount, then. Let Ser Lorell know; Ser Thornst, will you take the horses back? You have a way with them.”

Ser Eldein was junior, but it was true. Thornst nodded.

“Of course. I imagine Dame Chise will keep her mount, and perhaps Ser Aldon. But I shall bring the rest back.”

“We’ll have to send them back to a town or village. The Ogres might well go after them.”

Ser Eldein commented as Talia dismounted. The young woman nodded, grimacing.

“I imagine we’ll have to send one of our own back. Or perhaps the [Hermit] could—”

She broke off and raised a gauntleted hand. Ser Eldein fell silent at once. Off their mounts, the two [Knights] heard a sound up ahead. Rustling. They grabbed their weapons, alert. Talia motioned and the two spread out. They were hardly camouflaged with their bright metal armor, but they moved quietly, advancing. Talia rounded a tree and saw the Goblin Slayer.

Her first impression of him was of a kneeling figure. His armor was plain, but perfectly kept. He wore a full-visored helm, concealing his features. And his body was likewise covered, from head to toe.

That was like most [Knights]. But where Talia and Ser Eldein’s armor was polished and bright, painted in the colors of their Season, the Goblin Slayer’s armor was grimy. Not a single part shone. He smelled of dirt too, and Talia caught a foreign whiff from him that made her nose wrinkle. The Goblin Slayer was crouched, immobile as he studied a body on the ground.

A Goblin. It’s head had been split open and it was at least a day dead. The smell was foul and rotten. The Goblin Slayer knelt over it, inspecting the corpse. He had an intensity to even his posture as he remained still. Like a coiled spring, ready to explode if need be. But what stood out to her was the way he reacted to their presence. He looked up silently and she felt his gaze, hidden behind his helmet.

He had known they were here. The armored figure said nothing. He waited. Then, slowly, he stood and stowed the knife he’d been holding in one gauntleted hand. He turned, and reached for the pack on the ground. He looked back at the [Knights] and said not one word.

It was unnatural. Talia felt her skin prick slightly. Ser Eldein wavered and lowered his sword. He called out after a few seconds of silence.

“Well met, stranger! Are you hunting monsters? I am Ser Eldein of the Order of Seasons! This is Dame Talia, likewise of the Order of Seasons! May we know your name and purpose?”

The figure looked up. He stared at Ser Eldein, again, a bit too long. At last, he nodded and said one word.

“Goblins.”

His tone was guttural, hoarse, as if strained from misuse. He seemed content with that reply. Talia saw him stowing something in a belt pouch. She saw a flash of green and realized what it was.

Ears. He’d cut off the ears of the Goblin corpse. Or—just one. The head had been nearly destroyed by the blow. She saw Ser Eldein react with disgust. That wasn’t a practice of [Knights], but adventurers. Dame Talia was more diplomatic. She sheathed her sword and smiled.

“Are you Sir Goblin Slayer? My company was informed you were hunting the Ogres. As we are. There is a war band of thirty in the area. Thirty Ogres—a fearsome danger to the local citizens. Are you pursuing them?”

The Goblin Slayer looked up. He nodded once.

“Ogres and Goblins.”

“Pardon me?”

Talia frowned. The voice came out of the helmet.

“Ogres. And Goblins. They have Goblins. This is one of theirs.”

He gestured down at the corpse. Dame Talia blinked. She looked sideways at Ser Eldein.

“We’re told they number thirty in total, Ser Knight. Are you intending to battle them alone?”

He shrugged.

“Yes.”

Another pause. Ser Eldein frowned.

“But there are thirty Ogres.”

“And Goblins. I hunt Goblins. So I hunt them.”

With that said, the Goblin Slayer turned and began to walk away from Talia. She called out.

“Ser Knight, wait!”

He paused and turned back towards her. She cleared her throat. Someone was moving towards them. Ser Thornst, perhaps.

“Will you wait a moment? My company is behind me. We too hunt the Ogres. And Goblins. Might we pool information?”

The armored figure considered her request. Slowly, he nodded.

“Fine.”

Talia nodded to Ser Eldein. The other [Knight] sheathed his blade and turned. Ser Thornst stopped when he saw the Goblin Slayer, but the rest of the company converged on the spot in minutes. Ser Lorell blinked as well and covered his nose with a handkerchief; the other [Knights] looked at the body with disgust. And at the Goblin Slayer with suspicion.

“Well met, Ser Knight. Are you the Goblin Slayer we have heard about? I understand you are following the trail of the Ogres. A worthy cause. Might I know your name and order?”

Ser Lorell greeted the Goblin Slayer cordially. They were all on foot, but for Dame Chaise and Ser Aldon. Talia watched as the dark visor swung towards Ser Lorell. The Goblin Slayer paused for a long moment.

“I hunt Goblins. Call me what you want. I am not a [Knight].”

That was all he said. Ser Lorell faltered.

“Then you are hunting the Ogres?”

“Yes.”

“Alone?”

“Yes.”

“Are you…”

Are you a Gold-rank adventurer? Or Named? Or just mad? Ser Lorell was clearly thinking that. Talia was sure she’d never heard of a ‘Goblin Slayer’ as a Named Adventurer, excluding Elia Arcslinger of course. After a moment, she broke in.

“Do you believe the Ogres are in this area, Sir Slayer? We have tracked them by sightings and their attacks.”

“They are that way.”

The Goblin Slayer pointed, through the trees to the base of the hills. Ser Thornst frowned.

“You tracked them?”

“Here. And there.”

“Let me see.”

One of the other [Spring Knights] who had a tracking Skill moved forwards. He squatted by the body and studied the tracks in the ground. It was all dirt to Talia, but he seemed to agree. As he noted the stiffness of the Goblin corpse, Talia stepped back with Chise, Thornst, and Lorell to confer. The senior [Summer Knights] eyed the Goblin Slayer. He was watching them all.

“What an odd warrior. Not a [Knight], clearly. But he has the armor of one. That’s good steel. New. Quite mobile as well.”

Ser Thornst nodded to the Goblin Slayer’s armor. Indeed, he wore light armor, not as heavy as some of the [Knights], but it covered his body, allowing for superior movement. Talia knew a well-fitted suit of armor was like a second skin. A trained [Knight] could run, jump, swim, and climb in it with ease. Ser Lorell frowned darkly.

“He seems to match the description of this ‘Goblin Slayer’. I did hear a rumor of him on the road earlier. But he did not state he was such. An imposter, perhaps?”

“His armor is meticulously maintained, for all of the smell. They’re not all one set, though.”

Dame Chise studied the armored figure. Talia agreed. The armor was good beneath the dirt. Ser Lorell pursed his lips.

“He seems to be pursuing the Goblins. Should we insist on taking precedence?”

“Would he agree? This isn’t Terandria, Ser Lorell.”

“Nevertheless, we are nineteen.”

“If he’s an adventurer, he might object…”

“I’ll speak to him. Perhaps he can tell us more.”

Talia backed out of the conversation and moved over to the Goblin Slayer. He was speaking to the [Spring Knight]. Ser Shait was speaking.

“I count a large group. I’d say…fifty? More? Moving in the direction of the hills, indeed. That squares with the thirty-some Ogres. The Goblins…”

“Twenty five. Males and females. No Hobs. Few Goblins are with the Ogres.”

The Goblin Slayer’s voice made the [Knights] look up. Ser Eldein blinked.

“You can count so accurately, sir?”

The helmeted head moved towards him.

“I know Goblins. Twenty five.”

A specialized class for hunting Goblins, perhaps. Talia had met [Hunters] like the [Witch Hunters] who were like that. She had never met one that killed just Goblins. She studied the silent figure as Ser Eldein paused.

“No Hobs? Ah, Hobgoblins. Is that unusual, Sir Slayer?”

She squatted down next to the Goblin Slayer, steeling her stomach against the smell of the body. It had yet to truly stink. The Goblin Slayer paused.

“Hobs rarely appear in slave tribes. Goblins move too slow for Ogres. Tracks also show the same.”

“Slave tribes?”

“Yes. This is one. Goblins obey larger monsters. Twenty five for fighting came this way. Thirty Ogres. This one was one of them.”

“Why did it die? An accident? Its head looks—”

“Crushed. Ogre club.”

The Goblin Slayer dispassionately pointed. Talia nodded. Even she could read that much.

“And you’re sure of the count?”

“Fifteen female. Ten male.”

“More female than male?”

Ser Thornst had come over. He frowned. For answer, the Goblin Slayer pulled at the dead Goblin’s loincloth. The [Knights] recoiled.

“Sir Slayer!”

“Look. Female.”

Talia averted her gaze.

“That is unseemly.”

“The Goblin’s dead. Angered the Ogres. Probably.”

The cold voice from behind the helmet could have been staring at a rock on the ground. There was something almost…Golem-like about the Goblin Slayer. Talia got the sense of incredible focus from him. He was interested in only one thing. The Goblins. He gave her the impression of resenting even this delay.

Sir Lorell frowned. He’d come over, still covering his nose as he stared down at the female Goblin in confusion.

“Wouldn’t Ogres leave females behind? The bestiary states that few female Ogres fight in their raiding parties. Would that not hold the same for Goblins?”

“No. Ogres get bored.”

Talia recoiled. It took some of the [Knights] longer to understand what the Goblin Slayer meant. Ser Lorell took a full minute, and then he paled.

“But that’s—”

“Another reason to do away with them. Not that Goblins are different. This band has killed dozens. Sir Slayer, we are hunting them like you. May I ask what you intend to do when you find this band of monsters?”

The Goblin Slayer looked at Talia. His voice was calm.

“Track them to their lair. Kill them there. Can’t fight in the open. Ogres run too quickly.”

“Kill all of them?”

“Yes.”

“By y—how?”

“One by one.”

It was like talking to a mildly communicative rock. Talia shook her head. She looked around, gauging the response of the other [Knights]. Most looked suspicious, but Dame Chise was nodding to the tracks. The Goblin Slayer was better at tracking than their company; they hadn’t been assembled for their tracking Skills, only to slay Belavierr. Talia took a breath.

“And if nineteen [Knights] were to do battle alongside you, Sir Slayer? Our quarry is the Ogres and Goblins both. Let us join forces.”

The offer took both the Goblin Slayer and Ser Lorell off-guard. He drew Talia back as the Goblin Slayer paused.

“Dame Talia!”

“He’s set on his quarry and he can track the monsters, Ser Lorell. It makes sense.”

“Can we trust him?”

The [Summer Knight] looked at the Goblin Slayer with great distrust. Talia shrugged. She beckoned and a [Spring Knight] hurried over.

“What do you see, Ser Thaime? Can you appraise him?”

The man nodded. He stared at the Goblin Slayer and Talia saw his lips move silently. He used a Skill. [Measure of Valor]. After a moment, he looked up at Ser Lorell and Talia and nodded.

Lorell frowned.

“Well, Ser Thaime? His worth?”

“High. ‘Tis not akin to one of our order, but high nonetheless. I see deception, guilt of failure, and the mark of cowardice upon him, but no heinous crimes.”

The answer surprised Lorell. Talia too, honestly. Lorell raised his eyebrows incredulously.

“You’re sure? What of cowardice?”

Ser Thaime shrugged. His Skill allowed him to see the worth of an individual—at least, as a [Knight] judged such things. It wasn’t a foolproof Skill; there were honorable [Thieves], and lauded adventurers who held dark secrets. But it was a good measure the Order of Seasons liked to use.

“Cowardice in valor, Ser Lorell. I have seen the like upon our Grandmaster, the Summer’s Champion. Those who fled a battlefield at the last look so to me. As a whole, I call yon Sir Slayer a man of valor.”

“Is that so.”

Ser Lorell looked unhappy, but Talia smiled. She nodded to the other [Knights].

“Deception is well explained by how he acts. Cloaking himself in the blood and scent of Goblins? Exterminating them as they sleep? Hardly the act of a [Knight]. But he fights for a good cause. I say we pool our might of arms lest we foul each other accidentally.”

Ser Eldein and a few of the other [Knights] nodded agreement. Ser Lorell looked around but Talia knew she had the support of most of the others. He nodded grudgingly.

“Very well. You may extend the invitation.”

Talia already had. She approached the Goblin Slayer. He had folded his arms.

“I kill Goblins alone.”

“With respect, Sir Slayer, these Ogres are more than a small band of Goblins. I am told the rest of their clan and an entire Goblin tribe nests of the hills.”

“Yes. I will hunt them too.”

Talia nodded patiently. She gestured to the rest of the Order.

“But that is our charge as well. And since we have pledged to rid the world of these Ogres, we will not cease. Will you give up your hunt and entrust the burden of defeating these monsters to us, Sir Slayer?”

“No. There are Goblins. I hunt them.”

“So it is. Then let us work together. Or else we will endanger our causes by working apart.”

It was well-said, and after a moment the Goblin Slayer reluctantly nodded.

“Fine. We hunt together. Follow me.”

With that, he turned and began walking through the forest. The Order of Seasons started, but as Talia nodded, they trooped after the Goblin Slayer. He looked displeased—at least, behind his helmet. Talia strode forwards with Ser Eldein to walk alongside him.

“Sir Slayer—”

“Noisy.”

“What?”

Eldein looked affronted. The [Knights] were moving with a minimum of crackling footsteps in the underbrush. The Goblin Slayer looked at him.

“Noisy. Your [Knights] are noisy. Your armor is too loud. Too bright. And you smell. The Ogres won’t let you catch them.”

“Perhaps if we are too close, Sir Slayer. But we are used to the wilderness.”

Talia smiled, a bit annoyed by the blunt criticism. The Goblin Slayer shook his head.

“No. You smell. They are downwind. They will smell you. Use this.”

He paused and took something from his belt. Talia and Eldein recoiled when they saw a dried, stinking—

“Is that a foot?”

“Goblin’s foot. Smells like a Goblin. Put it on armor.”

“Absolutely not!”

Eldein backed up. The other [Knights] gagged at the sight of the body part. Talia stared at the Goblin Slayer. That explained his unique odor.

“You camouflage yourself by smell, Sir Slayer?”

“Goblins smell metal. I go ahead. You all stay back. Or use this.”

He offered it to Talia. She hesitated. She could see Ser Lorell shaking his head, but after a moment she took the body part. She shuddered despite wearing gauntlets.

“What must I do?”

“Wipe it over your armor. Dirt too.”

The Goblin Slayer bent and smeared dirt on her breastplate. Talia stared at the dirt, but she knew it made sense. Some [Knights] in her Order took the same precautions. Just not the foot!

It took her a minute to do as the Goblin Slayer bid. He sniffed her, and then nodded. Ser Eldein did likewise, but he refused to put the foot on his armor. The Goblin Slayer relented; the dirt was enough.

“We’ll scout ahead, Ser Lorell.”

The [Summer Knight] rolled his eyes, but let Talia, Eldein, and the Goblin Slayer move ahead. They were following the tracks. Some were obvious, like an Ogre blundering into a bush and uprooting them, but the Goblin Slayer noticed more. He was pointing out piles of stool.

“Ate here. Six hours, perhaps.”

“You seem very knowledgeable, Sir Slayer.”

Talia didn’t bend down to inspect the still-damp stool. The Goblin Slayer straightened.

“I hunt Goblins.”

“So you said. But it seems an odd occupation. Goblins are hardly profitable creatures for adventurers, are they, Sir Slayer?”

Ser Eldein muttered. The Goblin Slayer looked up.

“Perhaps.”

“You seem to have garnered a reputation, sir. May I ask if you have a reason to hunting Goblins to exclusion?”

Talia looked at the Goblin Slayer. He stared straight back and she felt a chill. He hadn’t removed his helmet the entire time. In fact, he’d drunk through a straw. Perhaps it was paranoia, although Talia had put her own helmet on since they were hot on the heels of the Ogres. The Goblin Slayer nodded.

“I have my reasons. Let’s go.”

The two [Knights] fell silent, looking at each other. The Goblin Slayer was hardly talkative despite Talia’s best efforts to engage him. But how much did she need to know? It wasn’t hard to understand.

Here was a man who hunted Goblins. Why? You could imagine any number of reasons. None of them pretty. But his single-minded devotion to the cause spoke to Talia of a grudge. She wanted to know what it was. He interested her.

They were moving uphill when the Goblin Slayer grabbed Talia’s arm. She stopped as he yanked her back.

“What—”

“Stop. A trap.”

He’d found something. In the trees, a metal spike embedded in wood. It was poised to swing down once Talia hit the nearly-invisible trigger. She shuddered, eyeing it as the Goblin Slayer climbed up. He was as mobile as she’d thought! He came down with it. Ser Eldein looked appalled.

“What is that?”

“Goblin trap. Ogres must have told them to set it up. They have a camp near here.”

“You’re sure?”

“Yes. Ogres don’t use traps. Goblins do.”

“I’ve never heard of Goblin traps! And I’ve eradicated a tribe before.”

The helmeted head slowly swung towards Ser Eldein.

“Some Goblins use traps.”

That was that. The [Knight] paused. Talia frowned.

“Will there be more traps?”

“Probably.”

So saying, the Goblin Slayer put the trap in a bag of holding and took the tripwire and other parts of the trap. That surprised Talia. As they stopped to warn Ser Lorell and the other [Knights], the [Summer Knight] frowned.

“Traps? These seem primitive.”

“Even so, night is falling. We should not venture forwards so near to the Ogre’s camp and risk alerting them and falling into traps.”

Dame Chise cautioned the group. Talia glanced sideways at the Goblin Slayer. He was staring up at the fading sun.

“Sir Slayer?”

“I can see traps. But the Goblins can see at night. Better to wait for dawn.”

Since I have to put up with you. Some of the Order of Seasons frowned, but they eventually agreed. Ser Lorell ordered a camp struck and sentries posted. The [Knights] made a small, smokeless fire and ate travel rations. Talia had hoped the Goblin Slayer would join them, but the adventurer sat far from the fire. He’d taken the trap he’d found out and was working on something beside it. Talia walked over.

“Sir Slayer, what are you—”

She paused when she saw the second trap. It was a net, the kind [Fishers] might use in a river or stream. The Goblin Slayer was attaching metal shards to the net, tying them into place. Each was a wickedly sharp blade. The Goblin Slayer walked over to a span of trees and anchored the net into place. Anyone rushing through incautiously would run straight into it. Then he grabbed the Goblin trap and began rearming it at another point in the trees.

The Order of Seasons had seen what he was doing. Ser Eldein protested.

“That is not a chivalrous weapon! Sir Slayer, we do not need traps! We are hunting the Ogres!”

“They might attack. Goblins would.”

“Do they know we’re here? We’ve had no signs of them and we’ve kept quiet.”

Dame Chise looked skeptical. The Goblin Slayer just pointed to the fire as a reply. Ser Lorell flushed; he’d been the one to insist on a fire.

“This is an overabundance of caution. Our sentries are well-positioned.”

“And now they have traps.”

Ser Lorell’s mouth worked and he gave up.

“As you will! I shall take third watch. Everyone, to your positions. Let us at least rest well for tomorrow’s encounter. Sir Slayer may set up all the traps he wishes.”

So he did. As the Order of Seasons settled down, pulling gear out of their bags of holding, Talia saw the Goblin Slayer set up eight more traps.

“You take many precautions, sir.”

“I have to. I work alone.”

The Goblin Slayer looked up and looked at Talia. He seemed uneasy at her company. Of course, he was used to isolation. She hesitated.

“You have a number of items in your bag of holding. Traps. I see you use a shortsword. Do you have any other weapons?”

He paused.

“I have another trick. I will use it when we fight if needed.”

“Will you not take supper with us?”

“No.”

Talia conveyed his words to Ser Lorell. The [Knight] grunted sourly, eating from the pot. The fire truly was smokeless, and the light contained by the glade, but some of the [Knights] had taken the Goblin Slayer’s precautions seriously. They were checking their weapons and making sure they lay next to them where they slept.

“Let this adventurer do what he wills, Dame Talia. We shall see his mettle tomorrow.”

He gestured to the Goblin Slayer. The ar