making a split-second decision.

“I can’t go too far, but if you all make letters and tell me who’s in, say, a twenty-mile radius of Riverfarm? I’ll go for a run and check in on everyone I can. Free of charge.”

The crowd let out an exclamation and then a cheer of approval. More pushed forwards, and Ryoka found herself shaking hands, being introduced—all while more people came out of the outhouses. A woman, Miss Yesel herself, Prost’s wife, was talking to Ryoka, placing one of her hands on Ryoka’s arm.

“I still remember it. We were worried about having enough before His Majesty got back—not that we didn’t trust him to come! But those snows were terrible. And then you showed up—with presents for the little ones, no less! We’re all planning on remembering that day. Christmas, you called it?”

Ryoka stared at the woman’s smiling face. She looked down at the arm on her hand. Then she snapped. She stepped back, raised her hands, and shouted at the eager crowd.

“I’m sorry, but excuse me. Do you have any soap?”

The villagers blinked, then guffawed. Come to that, the townspeople and city folk laughed too. They laughed and then laughed harder when Ryoka got out her personal travel-pack and insisted they all wash hands first.

Ryoka sighed as she emptied a pail of soapy water into one of the outhouses. Now she was committed to delivering letters. Which was fine. It was a good deed, and the people of Riverfarm were legitimately worried for their friends and relatives. But…

The Asian girl looked up as Durene finally came over, worried.

“Ryoka? Are you okay? That’s a lot of deliveries everyone was asking you about. I can tell Prost to talk to them if—”

“That’s it!”

The City Runner shot out of the outhouse. Durene blinked as Ryoka tossed the bucket and turned to her, grinning. Her eyes had lit up.

“I’m a genius. Durene, I figured out what I can do to help! Two things, actually.”

“Really? That’s wonderful, Ryoka! What can I do?”

Durene breathed a sigh of relief. She looked eagerly at Ryoka. The City Runner hesitated.

“You? Well…nothing. I need to talk to Lady Rie. It’s not that big, but it will help. Especially moving forwards. I just need to speak to her.”

“Oh. Okay. I can find her. Let’s go into the village.”

The half-Troll girl looked disappointed, but pointed immediately back towards Riverfarm proper. Ryoka nodded seriously. Then she looked around.

“Thanks, Durene. Uh—have you seen Charlay? We’ll need her too.”

“Charlay? I think she’s still out, uh, finding a bathroom. She ran out that way.”

Durene pointed down one road. Ryoka groaned. Of course, Charlay was still gone. She was the most Erin-like person Ryoka had ever met. Only, without Erin’s charm and with an extra set of hooves. It did not make her more endearing. But Ryoka had to admit, she liked the Centauress. A bit.

“Well, let me know when she comes back.”

She just wished Charlay didn’t have such a knack for causing her headaches. Shaking her head, Ryoka went into Riverfarm to find Lady Rie and talk about her ideas. And hand washing. That made three things.



—–



He found her because he had been waiting for a meeting like this. Waiting for a while, really. That was his purpose for the moment. Waiting and talking. It wasn’t glamorous work, but the wanderer had a mission. He strode towards the Centauress he’d spotted galloping into the brush and raised his voice. He didn’t want to spook her. He wasn’t here to harm at the moment, just talk.

“Hoi there, Miss! Can I have a word?”

For a second, he heard nothing from the brushes. Then Charlay shouted back.

“Go away! I’m busy!”

The traveller tugged at the large, dark hat on his head.

“I don’t want to disturb you, Miss! But I’ve been on the road, and I have to ask—is this Riverfarm?”

“Yes! That’s Riverfarm over there! Don’t come any closer!”

The female Centaur’s voice was snappy and preoccupied. The traveller shook his head.

“Then this is the domain of the [Emperor]? The one I heard about with Lord Tyrion Veltras’ army?”

“That’s right! Please shoo! I’m very busy!”

“I just want to ask a few questions if I may. Miss—”

“I ate something bad, alright? Go away while I do my business!”

The man with the hat realized there was a smell in the air coming from the bushes. He sniffed, recoiled, and backed away.

“Ah. I’ll wait until you’re done.”

That took a while. When the Centauress finally emerged from the underbrush, she looked quite unhappy. She stared at the Human wearing a pack and travel-worn clothing and glared.

“Yes, that’s Riverfarm. Good for you. You have eyes. What do you want? Do you just find people doing their business and bother them?”

The man hesitated, but then gave Charlay an apologetic smile. It was an odd one, toothy. A wide smile that Centaurs usually interpreted as being very aggressive. It was still friendly, but Charlay immediately didn’t like it. She folded her arms as the ancient animal senses in her head saw the teeth and prepared to fight or run.

“What do you want? And you have a creepy smile, Mister.”

The traveller looked abashed.

“My apologies, Miss. I get that a lot. I’m just a man on the road. I’d like to enter Riverfarm, but I’ve heard you have guests. The kind no one likes to meet. So long as they’re here, I think I’ll keep my distance. And warn anyone I can.”

“Guests? You mean the [Witches]?”

The stranger nodded cautiously. He tugged at his long hat.

“You could call me a concerned traveller. But I’d like to warn you, Miss Centaur, that staying in Riverfarm would be dangerous. Have you heard what [Witches] do? Particularly those [Witches]?”

He pointed at the village. Charlay tossed her head impatiently.

“Nope. I know one of them, and she’s a jerk. So what? You’re the suspicious one. You’re just wandering about. Warning people there are dangerous [Witches] here for no reason? That’s not suspicious at all.”

She pawed the ground as she peered at the traveller. He didn’t look particularly dangerous, and Charlay was sure one good kick would do him in. The traveller might have sensed her thoughts, because he stepped back, lifting his hands and smiling apologetically.

“I’m just doing a thankless job, Miss Centaur. I’m staying in this region for a bit. The [Witches] are a problem, and I’d like to make people aware of how dangerous they are.”

“Really? What’re they going to do, curse us all?”

The man shook his head, pursing his lips, vexed.

“Have you studied history, Miss? [Witches] used to fight in wars with the north. When the Five Families first invaded, some of them helped topple the Drake cities and drive the Gnolls south. Of course, that was many thousands of years ago. These days, they keep to their covens. But they’re still dangerous. The tall one? The one with the black horse? Have you heard the rumors from Noelictus? What she did up there?”

Charlay scratched at her head.

“Belavierr? Nope! Not at all. I don’t listen to gossip. Now, if you’re quite done saying suspicious things, I’m going. You can come to Riverfarm if you want. But if you bother me again, I’m kicking you.”

Charlay turned around and showed the man her back hooves. He stepped back with a sigh.

“Not for the moment, Miss. But you’ll see what I mean soon enough. Trouble’s coming. I’m just trying to warn you all. If you’re wise, you won’t stay around those [Witches]. They bring it.”

“I’ll bear that in mind.”

The Centauress shot over her shoulder. She trotted back to Riverfarm, glancing back at the traveller. She didn’t like him being behind her. But after a moment, he began walking back the way he’d come. She frowned and trotted faster towards Riverfarm. First [Witches], now suspicious men on the road. She shook her head.

“This place is weird.”

Then she broke into a gallop and went to find Ryoka.



—–



“This is where he was?”

Five minutes later, Ryoka was at the spot where Charlay had been. She stared at the scuffed ground and at what might have been a footprint on the packed soil. Or just random dust. Charlay nodded, glancing around.

“He was really suspicious. And he wanted to know if this was where that [Emperor] guy lived. But he was most interested in the [Witches]. He tried to warn me about them.”

“What did he say?”

“I didn’t really listen. Just suspicious stuff. Don’t trust them. They bring bad stuff. You know, suspicious stuff.”

Ryoka glanced up and sighed. Charlay had run to find her, and Ryoka had come right back to see what was up. She looked backwards and saw Durene jogging towards them. Slowly. The City Runner stood up, and Charlay began to jog with her back towards Riverfarm.

“He’s gone now anyways, and I don’t want to follow. What else did you notice, Charlay? What did he look like?”

“Um, he had…a hat? Dark clothes? Weird smile. And a backpack.”

Ryoka shot Charlay an aggrieved look. The Centaur spread her hands innocently.

“He wasn’t that noticeable. But what do you think he wanted?”

“I don’t know. But I intend to find out. Durene! Let’s find Lady Rie!”

It didn’t take long to find the [Lady]. Rie was distracted as she strode to meet Durene, Ryoka, and Charlay. But she heard them out, and instantly, her brows knitted together.

“A suspicious man on the road talking to you about [Witches]? I wish you’d been able to bring him into Riverfarm, Charlay. That man’s been spotted three times by other people, and that’s what I’ve heard today alone. Each time, he asked about Riverfarm and the presence of the [Witches].”

“Suspicious. See! I told you!”

“But what does he want?”

Ryoka frowned. She looked at Lady Rie. The woman raised two delicate eyebrows.

“It could be he was simply trying to cause trouble. Or he’s after one of the [Witches]. Maybe this Circle of Thorns? I somehow doubt they’d be that obvious.”

“Me too. But I think there’s a definite connection with the [Witches]. Damn. It sounds like he was trying to make sure they were in the village. And if that’s so—Charlay. What did this guy say exactly?”

“I can’t remember! I was sort of busy through half the conversation.”

The Centauress stamped one hoof. Ryoka sighed and massaged her forehead. She had a sudden, worrying thought.

“Okay, fine. But try to recall any specific details. Did he say anything about an inquisition?”

“Nope.”

“Then was his hair silvery and grey and did he have two swords? Did he say anything about a [Witcher]?”

“Not a thing about his class. What’s a [Witcher]?”

“Just a class. I suppose he’s not a [Judge]. If someone here was named ‘John Proctor’ I’d be really worried. Then again, this is a rural farm…”

Ryoka scrubbed at her face as Rie and Durene looked at her oddly. Great. It could just be a coincidence, but she didn’t like the timing. If you wanted to go Occam’s Razor, it was probably someone from Lancrel spreading rumors or an actual traveller who knew about one of the [Witches]. Like Belavierr or Mavika. Lady Rie pursed her lips.

“It seems trouble is brewing. I’d suggest we table this until the man can be found. I will let Beniar know to apprehend him if he’s spotted again. But for now, let’s focus on other matters. Durene said you had something to speak to me about, Miss Griffin?”

“What? That’s right. Yes! I know what I can do to help Riverfarm, at least.”

“Really?”

Lady Rie’s eyes sharpened. Durene looked hopeful as she hopped from foot to foot eagerly.

“What is it? What’s your idea, Ryoka?”

The young woman took a breath. She looked around and indicated herself and Charlay.

“We’re going to start a Runner’s Guild in Riverfarm.”

For a moment, all three women blinked at her. Then Charlay’s hand shot up.

“Dibs on Guildmistress!”



—–



The plan was simple. A bit audacious, but only a bit. Truthfully, it was simple, easy to execute, and it mattered. Lady Rie didn’t see it at first, but she got it after a little bit. Durene was the one who had no frame of reference.

“Why would a Runner’s Guild matter? We don’t have Runners in Riverfarm; we don’t really need ‘em.”

“True. But that was when Riverfarm was a small village. If Laken wants an empire, he needs a Runner’s Guild. And he needs one today, not tomorrow or in a few months. Because if you have Runners, you have communication. Not many people can afford [Message] spells, and you need a [Mage] to receive them. But Runners are cheap, and we go everywhere. As it stands, this entire region is pretty much isolated from, say, Invrisil or anywhere else. But if Runners start visiting here, even a handful, and you train your own, Riverfarm becomes a destination.”

Charlay was nodding as Ryoka laid out the plan. The Centauress took over, leaning over one of the maps the City Runners both carried in their packs.

“You know Runners won’t visit this place normally, right? Not more than once a week at least. It’s not worth the run. But if there’s a Runner’s Guild here and you have your own Runners or you steal some from another town…”

Rie sighed.

“We build a network. Of course. It’s completely logical. Where Runners go, trade and travel tend to follow. And it would certainly allow us to keep in touch with local settlements. I do think we could set up the beginnings of one, at least before Emperor Godart arrives. Yes, it’s not hard to set up a guild in theory.”

Durene looked astonished.

“Really? Doesn’t it need a building? And—and [Receptionists] and all kinds of organization? The Runner’s Guild we visited in Invrisil was huge.”

“Yes. But you can run a Guild out of a root cellar. In theory, you only need some Runner’s Seals, something to write down requests and store letters. And money to pay Runners, of course. But a Runner’s Guild takes a cut of deliveries. And most importantly—”

Ryoka was watching Rie’s face. The woman was sharp. She completed the sentence for Ryoka.

“—Miss Griffin and Miss Charlay can both advertise the fact that Riverfarm has a Runner’s Guild in the interim. Of course.”

The [Lady] nodded at Ryoka appreciatively. Ryoka smiled. It was a publicity stunt, like the one Laken had pulled at the Merchant’s Guild in Invrisil, as well as a smart investment in the future. She was proud of the idea. So was Charlay.

“Can I be listed as Riverfarm’s top Runner? It’s between me and Ryoka, and I’ll win that competition.”

Ryoka scowled at the Centauress.

“You could be Guildmistress if you wanted to retire.”

“How much does it pay?”

“Absolutely nothing. But they’ll give you all the wheat you want to munch on.”

Charlay looked like she was actually considering it for a moment.

“Hm. Pass. But it’s a good idea, right?”

Rie spoke tersely.

“I’ll make preparations at once. We can convert a new warehouse and set up a guild. Come to that, we might as well plan a commercial district. Which is what you’re suggesting next, Miss Griffin, isn’t it?”

The Asian girl nodded thoughtfully.

“Merchant’s Guild, Mage’s Guild—those are the basics. You could make an inn and a few shops too while you’re at it. I don’t imagine you get many [Traders], but if Riverfarm has any drop by, you could tempt them with some of your fresh produce. Until you get an actual product of some kind, that is.”

Rie coughed delicately.

“We do have some marketable items, in fact. Chess boards, carved items; but you are correct, Miss Griffin. Establishing shops would also give our artisans time to work. Some, like the [Potters], have been clamoring to use the clay deposits around Riverfarm. But a Runner’s Guild is a fine first step.”

She smiled, and Ryoka returned it. She saw Durene shaking her head slightly behind Rie. Ryoka understood; it wasn’t an earth-shattering idea. But it was smart, and it was based on things Riverfarm could do rather than making, say, a waterwheel.

Lady Rie went on.

“I think Emperor Godart would have implemented much the same idea as you’re proposing, Miss Griffin. Prost and I have been so busy trying to carry out his plans and dealing with the issue of sustaining the village and housing, we haven’t tried to develop Riverfarm further. However, if you’re willing to help us by doing some of the local deliveries, I will write a letter to the Runner’s Guild in Filk. Would you be able to make it there and back?”

Ryoka frowned.

“I’ll definitely do the deliveries. I might have to wait until tomorrow for the letters to be written and plan out my run. Filk. I don’t know the town. How far’s the run?”

“Thirty-two miles there and back.”

Ryoka scowled out the window.

“Oof. That’s hard. It’s already past midday. I could try it tomorrow. There’s something else I want to do there. Unless—”

She looked sideways. So did Rie and Durene. Charlay paused.

“What? Aha! So you admit I’m the better Runner?”

She looked triumphant, and then the Centauress frowned.

“But—hold on! There are [Bandits] about! Why do I have to risk my neck and run thirty-two miles?”

Ryoka sighed.

“Because you’re the gracious Centauress Dustrider Charlay? And because—”

She leaned over and whispered in Charlay’s ear as Durene and Rie frowned. The Centauress blinked.

“Hey! That’s a good idea! But what if I can’t find one? Okay. Okay, really? Huh. I don’t have a contact. But I still have to run there and back! That’s a lot of work!”

She stamped a foot, annoyed. Ryoka sighed.

“Please, Charlay?”

“Oh, okay. Just because you asked. I want to know too.”

The Centauress acquiesced at last. Ryoka sighed in relief; she didn’t want to do a thirty-mile run out of the blue either, stamina potions or not. They took a few more minutes to finalize things, and Lady Rie found some stationary and wrote a quick letter. And then Charlay was out the door, muttering about unpaid work. Ryoka saw her off with Durene. The [Farmer] girl looked mystified as Charlay galloped off.

“So we’re getting a Runner’s Guild? Is that your big idea?”

She looked at Ryoka. The young woman sighed.

“Partly. Charlay’s also going to dig up some information on the [Witches] if she can. Look, it’s a good idea. Riverfarm needs to do business if you want it to become a town or even city.”

Durene gnawed on one lip, dissatisfied.

“I guess—but it’s just not anything big. Don’t you have some other ideas?”

Ryoka did. She just refused to say. And she was getting tired of the questions.

“Not at the moment. Look, Durene. I’m just running blind here. Laken didn’t exactly give me a plan.”

“But he thought you could help.”

That apparently meant Ryoka should know exactly what she was doing. Exasperated, Ryoka looked over Durene’s shoulder at Lady Rie. The [Lady] gave her a slight nod and twitch of her lips. Ryoka shook her head.

“I’ll try, Durene. And I think I can help with the [Witches]. I want to know more about them, at least. Actually, aside from Mavika, the others seem relatively stable. Maybe they’ll just wait for Laken in peace—”

She saw Rie’s expression and stopped. Ryoka hesitated.

“Something wrong, Lady Rie?”

Durene turned and frowned. Ryoka frowned too. Lady Rie was biting one painted lip, a sure sign of stress because it was smudging her lipstick. She hesitated, then replied cautiously.

“Perhaps. While you were attending to Witch Mavika, there was an…incident. With Rehanna, one of our troublemakers. And the [Witch] known as…Belavierr?”

She relayed this morning’s incident to Ryoka. The City Runner felt a slight chill when she heard about Belavierr’s offer to Rehanna. She lost a husband and a child. What would a [Witch]…?

There were a lot of things Ryoka could think of, none of them pretty. And Belavierr might not be a [Necromancer], but Ryoka knew Alevica could summon skeletons. How strong did a [Witch] have to be to copy what, say, Pisces could do? Or more? She looked at Lady Rie.

“I think I’d better find some of the other [Witches]. Or even Belavierr. I wanted to talk to her.”

She felt a skip in her stomach just thinking about it. Durene looked uneasy.

“Are you sure, Ryoka?”

Lady Rie had a similar expression on her face.

“I don’t know if Miss—if Witch Belavierr is the most able conversationalist, Miss Ryoka. Or…stable. There might be some risk. Wiskeria seemed to imply as much. As did Miss Eloise.”

That was probably true. Even Mavika had given Ryoka strong fae vibes. As in, one misstep might have landed her with her eyes being pecked out by a murder of crows. But—damn it, she also wanted to know. Why did she like scary immortal monsters so much? Right, because they were cool.

Ryoka smiled weakly.

“Let’s just say I have some experience with people like her, Lady Rie.”

The [Lady]’s brows rose slightly.

“Really? Well, I believe Miss Eloise has relocated her tea circle. And you may find Wiskeria there as well. Belavierr might still be standing in the street. Or she may have moved.”

“I’ll—uh—I’ll—go feed Frostwing.”

Durene decided not to follow Ryoka for once, much to the City Runner’s relief. Ryoka grinned, nodded, and with some apprehension, went to find the [Witches].

It wasn’t hard. Indeed, Ryoka found Eloise sitting outside Riverfarm by the banks of the river. She was having tea again. Only this time—Ryoka paused.

The [Witches] were there. At least, five of them. Eloise was sitting on the grass, having spread a travel blanket to cushion a tea kettle and some snacks. And sitting with her was the strict [Witch], Miss Califor, and her apprentice, Nanette. Wiskeria was also sipping tea with them, and all four [Witches] looked like they were there purely by chance, because it was a lovely day and a nice place to sit. Not because they were watching the fifth [Witch] who sat under a tree. Not at all.

Belavierr was resting under a tree doing something with a thread and needle. She sat, her large, pointed hat bowed, consumed by her work. You could’ve missed her if you looked past her. Until you saw how the shadows of the tree seemed too long and how nothing, not birds nor insects, seemed to be making sound anywhere near her.

Ryoka wondered what you had to do to generate your own permanent creepy field around you. She headed towards the four picnicking [Witches] first. Wiskeria saw her coming and got up. Ryoka stopped in front of the tea circle awkwardly. Califor and Eloise regarded her, one with a piercing look, the other a kind smile. Nanette was eating a scone.

“Hi, uh, Wiskeria, right? I was hoping I could chat. Am I interrupting anything? Sorry, I’m Ryoka Griffin.”

Wiskeria nodded, adjusting her spectacles.

“Oh, yes. We met earlier. The one Laken sent. I haven’t had time to introduce myself properly. I’m pleased to meet you. And if I can help you, let me know. Emperor Laken did call for you.”

She held out a hand, and Ryoka shook it. The City Runner smiled and got a polite one of her own. Well, this was going swimmingly. Unlike other recent encounters, Ryoka hadn’t had to introduce herself by outing Wiskeria as a vampire, and she hadn’t needed to save Wiskeria from a magical monster just to say hi. If she could avoid punching her within the first ten minutes of meeting her, Ryoka was golden.

And yet—there was something about Wiskeria that made Ryoka suspect she was another Fierre. Not least Belavierr; a quality about Wiskeria made Ryoka’s shoulders itch. She couldn’t place her finger on it just yet.

“Sorry. Again. I know it’s odd that Laken sent me out of the blue. We’re, uh, acquaintances.”

Wiskeria nodded and didn’t ask any questions, which Ryoka appreciated. Her eyes flickered as she looked Ryoka up and down. She took in Ryoka’s features, missing fingers, and bare feet all at once; that was pretty good. Most people fixated on one or the other, but Wiskeria was as sharp as Durene had said. Then the [Witch] smiled and adjusted her pointed hat.

“I try not to be surprised by anything Laken does. But what brings you here? Is there anything I can help with? Is Mavika…?”

“Oh, no. She was at the fields, but we sorted it out.”

“Really? Did she make an offer? She doesn’t do modern Merchant’s Guild-type contracts. I can help her reword…”

Wiskeria looked instantly worried. Ryoka grinned.

“We sorted it. I helped Prost negotiate, and Mavika’s flock gets some of the corn in exchange for killing all the pests. They’re at work now.”

Wiskeria glanced towards the fields, and Ryoka saw a few birds in the distance. The [Witch] exhaled.

“That’s a relief. And that’s a standard contract Mavika offers, don’t worry. You helped Prost agree? Was there trouble?”

“Not really. The [Farmers] didn’t want to accept. I just talked them into it.”

Wiskeria looked surprised, and then she smiled.

“Thank you. Mavika really doesn’t have any ill will. She’s just hard to deal with. Even for other [Witches].”

“I’m familiar with the sort.”

Ryoka’s rueful look was one Wiskeria clearly understood. The [Witch] chuckled, and Ryoka laughed.

Oh, that’s what it is. Ryoka hesitated mid-laugh, glanced at Wiskeria, and saw the [Witch] break off laughing and give her another smile.

She’s faking her smile and laughter. It wasn’t like Persua, who did it blatantly and to hide how annoyed or spiteful or evil she was. Wiskeria was just…faking it. She seemed genuinely friendly, but it was strange.

Even so, Ryoka relaxed, and Wiskeria gestured at the [Witches]. Califor was speaking to Nanette, and the young [Witch] was nodding, pointing her wand at a scone. Ryoka realized she was trying to make it levitate, and both Califor and Eloise were coaching her!

“So, did you want one of us for anything?”

“Nope. I’m just here out of curiosity. It’s an interesting class. [Witch], I mean. I was hoping you could explain more of it to me. I don’t know if it’ll help, but—”

Wiskeria was nodding.

“Of course. I can answer any questions you have. Although I’m afraid you might be misunderstanding things. Being a [Witch] isn’t half as interesting as you might think. At my level, it’s closer to being a [Hedge Witch]—that’s a name for a self-taught female spellcaster. I’m afraid I’m just a glorified adventurer with a few odd tricks. Real witchcraft is hard to pull off. This coven’s probably your best example of that. I can’t do much to keep them in line. But I can put out any fires, with luck.”

She nodded to her mother for that. Interesting. Wiskeria wasn’t half as broken as Durene had made her out to be. Maybe she’d come around, but Ryoka thought the [Witch] seemed pretty put together. The Runner girl nodded and couldn’t help herself.

“Preventing them from turning people into frogs and stuff like that? Sorry, I know that’s stereotypical—”

Wiskeria’s genuine laughter made Nanette look up. The wobbling scone dropped out of the air. Ryoka smiled and then hesitated and gestured at Belavierr under the tree. Wiskeria’s mother hadn’t even twitched at Wiskeria’s laughter. Nor had she moved or changed positions once. Her hands and the needle and thread were the only things moving in her world.

“Um. I know it’s a hard sell for you to talk about this if it’s secret, but I’d also like to know more about some of the [Witches]. Especially your mother…? I heard she did something this morning. Can you talk about it? Or could I talk to her? Ask questions?”

Wiskeria’s smile cut off. She hesitated and tugged her hat a bit lower.

“I can try. Eloise was working on the woman—Rehanna—but my mother got to her first. She offered Rehanna…something. I don’t know what it is. I could guess, but there are a number of things my mother would offer. Few of them good. Still, if you want her aid, I can get her to give it.”

Ryoka’s eyebrows rose.

“Really?”

Wiskeria nodded casually.

“I’m her daughter. I don’t like taking her help for—anything. But that’s my choice. I could introduce you now if you want. Just remember she will give you what you want…at great cost.”

Ryoka hesitated. She did want that, but experience had taught her caution. She looked at Wiskeria.

“I’d love to ask her some questions. But, uh, is there any etiquette I should use? A way I can address her? Would she be offended if I just made conversation? What are the consequences of a mistake? That’s a better question, actually.”

The [Witch] blinked at the barrage of questions. She gave Ryoka a strange look and shook her head.

“The worst that will happen is she’ll just ignore you. Actually, that’s very likely without me around. Or she might make you a deal. But—”

She looked Ryoka up and down, and the young woman got the feeling she was being inspected in more ways than just visual.

“—I don’t think you have what she wants. There’s a bit, but not much.”

“A bit of what?”

The [Witch] winced.

“Sorry. That was rude. The answer’s pain. Or regrets. Or—well, you’re not in despair or desperate at the moment. There’s a bit of that. Sorry, it’s a [Witch] thing. I can explain. Why don’t we have a seat first? Eloise has tea out, and she can help explain.”

So saying, she led Ryoka over to the blanket. Eloise brushed a strand of white hair out of her eyes and smiled. Ryoka sat down and found herself with a cup and scone in hand in moments. Ryoka felt like she was speaking to her grandmot—wait a second, her grandmother hated her. A therapist, then.

Ryoka knew it was a Skill, and part of her mind pushed back on it. But since Eloise was all genuine, at least as far as Ryoka could tell, the hospitality still put her at ease.

“Good evening to you, young woman. Ryoka Griffin, am I right? I’m delighted to meet you. This is Califor and Nanette.”

“A pleasure.”

Witch Califor tipped her hat and regarded Ryoka with one piercing gaze before sipping from her cup. Ryoka awkwardly introduced herself. Both Eloise and Califor seemed to know who she was already. The elderly [Witch] smiled.

“Of course we do, dear. You’re the one Belavierr pointed out to us.”

Ryoka choked on a scone. Califor and Wiskeria leaned out of the way as Ryoka coughed crumbs onto the grass.

“She did? That’s what Mavika—er, what did she say?”

Califor frowned. She reached out and plucked a wobbling scone out of the air as Nanette managed to get it to eye-level. The [Witch] took a bite and nodded, chewing briskly.

“That you feel like the wind. That’s unusual enough. But I agree. There’s an odd affinity with the wind about you, but you’re no [Mage]. How did you come by that gift, young woman? It’s not an artifact either.”

“I…learned it from a friend.”

Ryoka’s evasive answer got her another piercing stare. Califor swallowed, opened her mouth, and received a gentle but firm look from Eloise.

“Witch Califor, I do believe you meant to press my guest at tea. With respect to your famous nosiness, this is my place.”

“I do believe I intended only a few questions, Eloise.”

The older witch waggled a finger, tsking.

“Gently, Califor. I insist you not rush.”

“I cannot help but stride, Witch Eloise. But if you insist—”

What an odd dynamic. Califor sat back, taking her ease, and Ryoka wondered if she’d been about to be given the third-degree. It sort of made her warier of Eloise, but the tea-serving [Witch] continued the conversation, smiling.

“Then what brings you here?”

“I—I’d like to know about [Witches].”

Nanette sat up. Wiskeria and Eloise smiled. And Califor raised her brows.

“If your goal is to fly like Witch Alevica, Miss Griffin, I would forget about it. She is a prodigy, and it took her six years to learn how to fly. Moreover, none of our coven is looking to take on apprentices. I’m afraid I only have time to teach Nanette. And Wiskeria if she wishes it.”

She nodded at Wiskeria as she pointed at something upstream. Ryoka leaned over as Wiskeria frowned and didn’t reply to Miss Califor’s comment. Was that a hat floating downriver? No. It was Alevica. She was swimming in the river! And she was stripped down to her undergarments. Except for her hat. Nanette giggled at the sight and sat up straight when Califor glanced at her.

“I…don’t want to fly, Miss Califor. I just want to know about [Witches].”

The older [Witch] stared at Ryoka, seeing right through the lie. Ryoka sighed.

“Okay, I’d like to know how to fly. But I don’t think I could be a [Witch]. And I don’t intend to be one.”

“You could be. You have a bit of what it takes. But let’s let that lie. You want to know about [Witches], Miss Griffin? What do you know about us already?”

Eloise tapped the cooling tea pot with a finger, and Ryoka saw a trail of steam rise from the tea the [Witch] poured into her cup. The City Runner thought and answered slowly.

“I think I understand a bit. Durene described Wiskeria making her brew. It sounds like [Witches] rely on rituals as opposed to [Mages] who cast direct spells they memorize. Chanting, more, uh, traditional spellcasting and the ability to tame familiars, perform alchemy—it makes [Witches] a broader class than most spellcasters. But there’s something else to it, right? Durene mentioned Wiskeria was gathering emotions.”

She looked around. Eloise smiled approvingly, and Califor’s eyebrows shot up. She nodded slowly with the hint of a smile. Ryoka felt like she’d earned a rare gold star. Eloise nodded.

“You’re quite observant, Miss Ryoka. And you’re also entirely correct. [Witches] use emotions and feelings in our spells. Well, it’s wrong to say just emotions. We use regrets, grudges, as well as places of power.”

“Places of death. Or life. The nature changes, but power is power. What matters is how a [Witch] uses it and to what end. They must take care they are not consumed by what they try to wield. Remember that, Nanette. And wipe your mouth.”

“Yes, Miss Califor.”

Califor struck Ryoka as someone with a lesson for every situation. Ryoka hesitated, trying to process what she’d just heard. So [Witches] used emotions to fuel their spells?

“Is that confidential? If it is, I can keep a secret.”

Califor snorted, and Eloise laughed so gently that Ryoka blushed. Wiskeria settled back, letting the two older women talk as she showed Nanette how to levitate a scone with her own wand. Califor continued.

“None of this is a grand secret. It’s simply that no one asks. And that [Witches] prefer to keep their methods private. We don’t gossip about our talents. But this is a time of unusual circumstance, and you are unusual yourself. So yes, [Witches] use feelings like power. We gather it. And ritual, incantation, that is all a way to harness that power. It is not as obvious or loud as a [Mage]’s spell. And it lacks the force of that magic. But it can do what regular spells cannot. It is not greater or worse. Just different.”

Eloise nodded and put down her cup.

“Like each [Witch]. You may have noticed this, Miss Griffin, but [Witch] is as wide a class as [Mage]. We all have our talents. Mine, as you may have noticed, is tea. Tea, sociability, medicines—I put my magic into that. Take this for example. This is my tea I’ve sold to some of Riverfarm’s villagers.”

She produced a packet of dried tea and offered it to Ryoka. The Runner Girl took it, opened it, and frowned. Califor nodded.

“It’s just a basic root tea. What makes it special is her magic. Try it. Here. Nanette, fill this kettle and then warm it up.”

She gestured to Nanette, and the apprentice dutifully got up, filled the pot from the stream, and put it on the ground. She looked hesitantly at Miss Califor.

“With a spell?”

“Yes. [Hot Hands]. It’s a basic Tier 0 spell. You do need regular spells as much as incantations. But use it to burn the kindling. Here.”

“Wouldn’t it be easier to heat up the water by holding it?”

Nanette looked wistfully at the pot. Califor sighed.

“It would. Igniting a stick requires focusing the heat of your spell into a hand or finger. It requires concentration, but it means your control over a basic spell will be much greater. [Hot Hands] is useless if all you can do is make a kettle steam. If you can ignite a fire, however, it means the spell has utility. And what does a [Witch] value?”

“Good boots?”

Nanette blushed as Wiskeria and Ryoka burst out into laughter. Eloise smiled, and Miss Califor’s stare sent Nanette fumbling to ignite the sticks. Only when Nanette was fussing over the sticks did Califor smile slightly.

Eloise nudged Califor, and the other [Witch] lifted her eyes skywards. Eloise rolled her eyes expressively—then they all watched Nanette trying to cast the fire spell.

It took her eight tries, in which time Eloise had prepared a second pot. All she had to do was touch it; Califor pointed that out as an exemplary use of the same spell.

“Now, these are two identical mixtures, Miss Griffin. The difference is that I’ve put my magic into one. It’s a simple process, and it’s not much magic. But it’s different from enchanting it. I put my craft into it.”

Ryoka eyed the two identical, dark teas. She looked up.

“By craft you mean…”

“She means the particular magic she desires. Each [Witch] is different, Miss Griffin. Eloise looks for different things than I do. You’ve seen her tea parties. That is not a simple charity. Nor is what Hedag does. Or Alevica. Our craft is what we seek, what defines us as [Witches]. What does Eloise do when she sits with others and offers them tea and advice? Nanette?”

The apprentice jumped and stuttered.

“S-she helps them by making them feel better? And, um, making them feel nice?”

“And what does she gain from doing that?”

“She takes…she takes…”

The apprentice panicked. Wiskeria spoke quietly as she brushed crumbs off her dress.

“She takes a bit of their happiness. Their goodwill and cheer. Not all of it; just a bit.”

Califor nodded. She didn’t seem half as strict as Nanette’s reactions indicated; it was more the girl was trying to keep up and impress Califor and fumbled around her. Which meant Califor was probably pretty important too.

“Correct.”

“Really?”

Ryoka sat up and looked at Eloise. The older [Witch] closed one eye as she poured a cup.

“As Miss Califor says. I’m sure Nanette knew that, but identifying exactly what I take is difficult. I like to think I’m quite subtle. But yes. I make people feel better, and in exchange, I take some of that good feeling. Just a bit. But—here. This is a cup of tea. What do you think?”

She offered it to Ryoka. The young woman sipped. She tried not to let her face change. Well…it was a tea. Eloise smiled knowingly.

“Well?”

“Hmm. Rooty. Tastes a bit like dirt. But yeah, it’s tea-like.”

“It’s from local roots and herbs. Very inexpensive. Free, in fact. But it does lack for taste. Now try this cup.”

The second cup made Ryoka pause and sniff it suspiciously. She’d looked at both packets, and they’d been identical. But this tea smelled completely different! And when she tasted it—

“Take my money.”

Ryoka slapped a few silver coins down on the cloth, and Nanette giggled with delight. Eloise laughed as Ryoka drank from the cup. It was amazing! The taste was there, but it was as if you’d taken it and improved it in every way possible. Instead of dirt, the taste was earthen, deep. The older [Witch] waved away Ryoka’s coins.

“I’ll sell you some of my teas. Only one or two, though. I’m afraid it won’t do you any good to keep them for more than a few days, Miss Griffin. I could sell you some longer-lasting teas, but even if you tried to use a [Preservation] spell, it wouldn’t do you any good. Bags of holding don’t work either.”

“Really? Why? Wait—is it—?”

The City Runner blinked down at her cup. Nanette sat up eagerly, but Ryoka’s mind raced towards the connection. She looked up, and her eyes shone.

“Of course. It’s goodwill. It runs out quick.”

This time, Eloise’s laughter made Alevica, floating past them, raise her hat and stare at the group. Califor chuckled; Nanette goggled at that, and Wiskeria looked impressed herself. Then Witch Califor sighed.

“You could be a good [Witch], young lady. If only you’d been called earlier. You still could be, of course, but—”

“Hey! Is that Ryoka Griffin over there?”

Alevica called out and then swam over. She walked over to them, shedding water. Ryoka saw her flick her hands, and her clothes flew from a nearby tree branch towards her. She dressed herself as the water steamed off her body. Califor rolled her eyes at the display. Ryoka was intensely jealous.

“It is you. I knew you were interesting when I met you. Eloise, pass me a cup of whatever’s in that, will you? What’re we talking about? I’m so bored here I feel like flying off and killing some of the [Bandits].”

The Witch Runner sprawled out. Eloise poured her a cup as Califor eyed Alevica severely. Ryoka looked at Alevica’s cocksure grin.

“I’m asking about [Witches].”

“Oh? Well in that case, why didn’t you ask me? You’d probably be most similar to me anyways. What, did Eloise explain her magic to you? That’s right. She uses goodwill. Now, here’s the real trick. What do I use?”

Alevica shot Ryoka a challenging grin. She reminded Ryoka…of Ryoka. Only, more confident than Ryoka could ever remember being. More dangerous too. Ryoka remembered Alevica laughing as she killed the [Bandits]. The young woman thought for a moment. Alevica. She hadn’t seen her harvesting any emotions from the brief time she’d met her.

Or had she? Ryoka looked up and met Wiskeria’s eyes. She recalled Charlay’s fear of Alevica. Ryoka glanced at the [Witch] Runner’s smirk.

“You’re taking their fear. And hatred.”

Alevica’s brows rose. She looked at the others.

“She’s good.”

She turned back to Ryoka.

“That’s right. Fear, hatred, loathing, envy, I take it all. I don’t need to pretend to like people or listen to their sad, sordid little lives. I do what I want, and that makes me powerful. What I take lasts far longer than any goodwill.”

She winked at Eloise. The older [Witch] gave her a resigned smile. Ryoka looked at Alevica.

“So does that make you a ‘bad witch’?”

Alevica sprayed tea across Nanette and Califor as she laughed. Nanette flung up her arms, and Califor scowled. Not a drop of tea landed on either.

“Alevica. Mind your manners.”

“Sorry. Sorry! ‘Bad witches’? Yeah, I’m a bad [Witch]. I guess that’s how some people look at it. I just think of it as looking after myself. Why do I owe people anything?”

“Oh, perhaps only because they deserve respect. Or that their efforts create the world which you can enjoy. A [Baker] bakes her goods and works hard.”

“And I pay her, Eloise. And if someone wrongs me, I get even. I don’t owe people for anything. Hey, Nanette, remember that. A [Witch] can do as she likes. That’s my craft.”

Alevica drained her cup and looked around arrogantly. Nanette seemed equally nervous and awestruck by Alevica. Califor frowned.

“Tell me, Alevica. Does your brand of witchcraft improve this world in any way? Or is it self-indulgent? You rely on others more than any of us, only you expect their hatred. What you have will not last. Every [Witch] falls. When you do, will it be alone?”

The Witch Runner paused. She tossed her cup down and sat up. Ryoka felt something pass by her as the two [Witches] locked gazes. Wiskeria muttered.

“Oh, not again.”

But whatever contest was in the air, Alevica clearly wasn’t in the mood for it. The air turned hot for just a second before she looked away. Annoyed, Alevica rose to her feet.

“I’m sure that’s what these wonderful covens are for, Califor. I’m being a good little [Witch] and helping [Witches] everywhere, aren’t I? Don’t lecture me about magic. Not all of us have to hold hands and sing songs. I was watching you teach Nanette the absolute basics. Where’s the Witch Califor who did real magic? I guess Mavika’s the genuine article. Later.”

She turned. Her broom shot towards her, and Alevica hopped up. Her feet landed on the broom, and she disappeared, shooting across the ground, just a few feet into the air. Ryoka watched her go enviously. Califor just shook her head.

“That would be an example of a [Witch] whose craft is both powerful and self-indulgent, Miss Griffin. Alevica is the most gifted [Witch] of her generation at her age. But her magic is self-destructive. [Witches] like that often end up in early graves.”

There was silence after that pronouncement for a bit. Ryoka sipped from her cup. Alevica had come and gone like a storm. But she had reminded Ryoka of Mavika.

“Wiskeria said Mavika was like Alevica. A bad…I mean, selfish to some degree. What craft does she use?”

She looked at Wiskeria. The [Witch] frowned.

“Crows.”

“Crows?”

“Not all [Witches] need just emotions. The strength of her flock is probably part of her power. I’m sure she uses some stuff. Fear, loathing, uh…superstition?”

She looked at Califor and Eloise for confirmation. Califor nodded.

“It’s an old way. Too cumbersome for my taste.”

“And imagine feeding all the crows. But Mavika is old. And quite powerful.”

Eloise sighed and shook her head. Ryoka nodded. She forbore asking who was most powerful; it seemed like Alevica was lower on that totem pole than Califor, at any rate. Ryoka glanced around and jumped. She’d nearly forgotten about the shadowed [Witch] under the tree. She hesitated, then plunged into it.

“Okay. Then…do you mind me asking what Belavierr uses?”

The picnic went silent. Nanette edged closer to Califor, and the older [Witch] lowered her cup. She and Eloise looked at each other. Eloise murmured.

“Loss. Among other things.”

“I see. Is she—different from the rest of you?”

“Only in the sense of age. Any [Witch] might become as powerful as her. In time.”

Califor sniffed, but it was quietly. Eloise shook her head.

“Any [Witch] might. But you could regard her as the most powerful [Witch] present by some margin, Miss Griffin. And Belavierr is extraordinary. Let us leave it at that.”

Ryoka wanted to. But she had promised Laken, damn it. Exactly what she had promised and how much she owed him was up for debate, but Belavierr spoke to Ryoka of every movie cliché and old story possible. If there ever was a big, bad [Witch] who was going to cause trouble, it was her.

“Sorry, Eloise. But I do have to know. What did she offer Rehanna? Why were you two fighting over her?”

Eloise paused. She put down the packet of herbs and looked up slowly. She didn’t scowl, not exactly, but Ryoka felt the pleasant air go still for a moment. Eloise’s voice was sharper as she glanced at Belavierr.

“Both she and I have different philosophies towards what should be done with Rehanna. We both offer resolution of a kind. In this instance, Belavierr got to Rehanna first. I wish it hadn’t been so. I don’t know what she offered.”

But she could guess. Wiskeria, Califor, Eloise—none of them wanted to say. Ryoka glanced at Nanette. The girl just looked slightly frightened as she glanced at Belavierr, and awed.

“I take it she’s a legend among [Witches]? A Weatherwax, if you will?”

“What kind of name is that?”

Califor frowned and shook her head. Ryoka recalled what Wiskeria had said. They were all legends. But then, did that make Belavierr a myth? Ryoka hesitated.

“I’d like to ask her some questions. If I could. Wiskeria?”

“What? I can help you with that. It’s fine.”

Wiskeria said that as much to Ryoka as the other [Witches]. Califor and Eloise traded a glance and nodded. Reluctantly. Ryoka saw that and grew considerably more apprehensive as Wiskeria got up. But the daughter walked over to Belavierr as casually as could be. Ryoka, following her, felt the shadows seem to grow as she approached Belavierr’s tree.

It was…dark here. Darker, despite the shining sun and clear skies not a foot away. The shadows of the tree made Ryoka’s skin break out into goosebumps as she walked under them. It was quiet. Extremely so. She saw Belavierr sitting, the hat hiding her face. And the [Witch]’s hands were moving.

A pale needle flashed between long fingers. A pale, flesh-colored thread was moving as the needle stitched. The [Witch]’s hands were so fast that Ryoka couldn’t follow them. The needle moved in, out, changing, a hypnotic dance. It made Ryoka uneasy. The rest of Belavierr was so still. Part of Ryoka told her not to approach.

But Wiskeria was there. The [Witch] looked down at her mother and frowned. She was unaffected by the nervousness that touched Ryoka. She glanced back at Ryoka. The young woman gulped. Her mouth was suddenly dry. She coughed.

“Belavierr? Um. Witch Belavierr. I’d like to speak with you. If I may?”

There was no response. That was the scariest part of all. Belavierr kept stitching, only her arms moving, without reaction. It was like she hadn’t heard a thing. Ryoka tried again.

“Witch Belavierr? I seek an audience. Witch Belavierr? I’d like to talk…”

It was very dark. And Belavierr’s hands kept moving. Ryoka took a step back uneasily. There it was again. That feeling in the air. Like she got with Fierre or the fae. Or Teriarch, come to that. A sense of timelessness. Belavierr had that quality. But also what she’d sensed from the things around the fire. Az’kerash.

Another layer of wrongness. That was it. It wasn’t as…strong as the things around the fire. Az’kerash had been terrifying in another way. But Ryoka sensed that she did not want to see what Belavierr was doing. She looked at Wiskeria. The [Witch] was staring down. She didn’t feel it?

But Belavierr was her mother. The daughter turned to Ryoka, realized Belavierr was still stitching, and bent.

“Mother. Mother.”

No response. Wiskeria grabbed Belavierr’s shoulder and, to Ryoka’s horror, shook her slightly. The [Witch] moved, but kept stitching.

“I think she’s busy—”

“She’s just not paying attention. I hate when she does—hold on.”

Wiskeria made a disgusted sound. She looked reluctantly at her mother and then glanced at Ryoka. Then she coughed.

“Um. Mother, I need your help.”

Ryoka had privately been thinking that if Belavierr suddenly looked up or started crawling towards her like some Japanese horror movie, she’d soil herself and run away. When Belavierr’s head suddenly snapped up, Ryoka got close. She stepped back as the [Witch]’s ringed eyes fixed on Wiskeria.

“Yes, Daughter?”

“Hi, Mother.”

Wiskeria looked like she was sucking on pieces of glass. She glanced at Ryoka.

“I have someone here who wants to ask you questions.”

The head slowly turned, and the eyes fixed on Ryoka. The City Runner froze. How could Belavierr be scarier than Fierre and her entire family put together just by turning her head?

“I—I—uh, greetings, Witch Belavierr. We meet again?”

“Hello.”

The [Witch] stared at Ryoka with a completely blank expression. She had no idea who Ryoka was. However, then she tilted her head, stood in one fluid motion, and did something odd.

Again, like their first encounter, Belavierr leaned forwards and sniffed Ryoka. The Wind Runner froze up, and even Wiskeria looked surprised. And scandalized.

“Mother!”

Belavierr paced around Ryoka, sniffing lightly, staring at her as Ryoka froze. It was like a tiger had suddenly begun pacing around her. She tried to move—but suddenly, the Stitch Witch’s eyes were locked on her. And it was terrifying.

“You…smell like my nemesis. Vaguely. You smell like the mice I have sworn to kill. Vaguely. Who…are you?”

Belavierr whispered in Ryoka’s ear. She stepped back, and Wiskeria was there, blocking Ryoka.

“Ryoka, Mother. Ryoka Griffin, and she is a guest of the [Emperor] here, and you are sworn by the coven’s will not to disrupt our plans. So behave and listen. I need a favor of you.”

Belavierr blinked. She stepped back and stopped peering at Ryoka so hard. She sat back down, cross-legged. After a moment, her eyes met Ryoka’s, but ‘lightly’, without the same intensity. Just…the same eerie rings pulling Ryoka in.

“My daughter asks me a favor. Something I have not heard in years. You have questions. Ask and I will answer.”

Ryoka had to stare at Belavierr’s boots to even get a reply out. She stuttered.

“W-well, I’m just curious about your, uh, craft. Your coven is, uh, surprising. Since it’s here in Riverfarm, I mean. I, uh—could I ask why you’re—I mean, I know why you’re here. So, um…”

The glowing, orange stare was going right through Ryoka. Belavierr didn’t look away, and she didn’t blink. Ryoka realized she was waiting for a question. Ryoka fumbled for the first one she could think of.

“What—what’s your craft, Witch Belavierr? What do you…do?”

At last, the [Witch] blinked. She raised one hand, and Ryoka saw her holding the needle.

“I stitch. Thread. Cloth. My craft is stitching. Sewing. Connection and binding. It is important for a [Witch] to know her craft.”

“Of course. Of course. Uh—”

Ryoka was sweating. She wiped at it. Cold as ice.

“What can you do with stitch magic? I mean, it sounds great. Amazing. But, uh, I met Eloise, and she makes tea—which is great, but I sort of thought that a [Witch] of her level would have more powerful magic. No offense to Eloise. But what’s her end result? I mean, say she’s Level 80. Does she make tea that can kill a Dragon or something?”

She was blabbering. Wiskeria shot her a glance and stared at Ryoka’s pale expression. She whispered.

“Come on, don’t be bothered. I know she’s odd, but she won’t hurt you.”

Odd? Ryoka was about to wet herself in terror, and Wiskeria thought her mother was just a bit off? This was beyond supernatural. But Wiskeria was treating her mother as if she were just a bit eccentric.

Belavierr’s eyes flicked to her daughter. Then she shook her head slowly. Her gaze went to Eloise at her tea party.

“What is simple is not weak. Tea is a part of a whole. When Eloise brews tea, her magic is one thing. It could be many things. Poison and medicine are two halves. Tea is a medicine or food or aspect of society. Her magic may destroy. In time, it may create.”

“Create? Like tea golems?”

Ryoka tried to laugh. It sounded a bit hysterical. Belavierr shook her head.

“I doubt Eloise wishes to create life. She may create happiness. Something to induce love or sadness. Fear or regret. If she wished it, she could create something like life through herbs. It would not be wise. Such was the arrogance of those that created the first true Cloth Golems with thought. String-people.”

“String-people?”

Ryoka and Wiskeria both stared at Belavierr’s face. When did they get to String-people? And had Belavierr just implied…? The [Witch] blinked. Once.

“The first Cloth Golems that became String-people were made by masters of the craft. [Golem Artificers], [Weavers], [High Mages]. And [Witches]. That is a part of my craft. But the act is creation. Connection. It is one part. They did not control what they made, for it was beyond each component part. Does that answer your question?”

The young woman gaped at Belavierr. At last, she managed a response.

“Yes?”

“Very well.”

Belavierr nodded. She looked at her daughter, then seemed to recall something. She looked at Ryoka.

“I am pleased to meet you, Ryoka Griffin. I hope you will take care of my daughter.”

It sounded like she’d memorized that line. Coming from her, it didn’t sound like a threat. But the words fit Belavierr not at all. Ryoka nodded quickly.

“Of course. Rather, it’s her taking care of me. And Riverfarm. I’m just a City Runner! Wiskeria’s the [General]—er—[Witch].”

“Yes. Both paths lead towards danger. One is not hers. It was given. The other she chose. And in both, she has not yet walked.”

Belavierr frowned. She turned away from Ryoka and looked at Wiskeria. For the first time, she really seemed to focus on Wiskeria’s face. That timeless tone seemed to vanish, and Belavierr…woke up? Ryoka stared, fascinated, as the [Witch] looked at her daughter, who was fiddling with her hat.

“Daughter. You should continue your training. Develop your craft. You are no [General], but a [Witch]. You have yet to make use of your power.”

Wiskeria shook her head, exasperated.

“I’m fine, Mother. I’m an adventurer. That’s good enough for me. And I chose to be a [General]. Laken just gave me the class.”

She looked away from Belavierr, at Ryoka. As if the mile-long stare didn’t work on her at all. Belavierr whispered.

“I could have made you a [General] of countless armies had you asked me.”

Wiskeria’s head snapped back around.

“Yes? Well, I didn’t ask you, Mother. I wanted to find my place myself! The one time I asked you for a true favor, I regretted it all my life. I still do. So forgive me for doing things my way.”

Belavierr stopped, and Ryoka’s eyes swung to Wiskeria’s taut expression. Okay, things were making sense. Ryoka understood this, at least, and despite her ancient eyes, her unsettling presence—something about Belavierr’s tone was just the tiniest bit of irked motherhood.

“You do it so inefficiently, Daughter mine. As for your regrets, I do not recall when I have ever failed you. Was it the name you mentioned? I almost recall…Ostevien.”

Wiskeria’s eyes flashed.

“Fail me? Mother—you never fail. That’s the problem. If you can’t remember, fine. I’ll do it for you.”

She turned, as Belavierr frowned hugely, and talked to Ryoka as if Belavierr had ceased to exist.

“Well, Ryoka, you got your answer. Any more questions? Actually, we can ask later. Good to see you, Mother. Is your death here yet?”

“I may not die for—”

“Good! Let me know if it changes.”

Without waiting for a response, she took a step back. And stopped. Belavierr had stepped around her, blocking her path. It was so fast Ryoka jumped. The [Witch] bent down, intent on Wiskeria.

“You will die without a craft, Daughter. You have potential. But you refuse to fully become what makes you a [Witch]. We have discussed this.”

“Mother. I’m fine.”

Wiskeria turned away. Ryoka realized she was watching a mother-daughter argument, albeit the scariest one she’d ever seen. She jumped as Wiskeria pointed at her.

“Ryoka’s not putting me in any danger. And I’m fine in Riverfarm. I’ve been fine since I left. I don’t need your help. If I get into trouble, I get into trouble.”

“A [Witch] is incomplete without her craft. I am concerned, Daughter. I would not wish your death.”

So saying, Belavierr reached out and adjusted Wiskeria’s hat with the hand that held the needle. Her daughter flinched away. She stared at her mother, vexed.

“Mother! I don’t want to learn from you.”

Belavierr replied steadily.

“I did not suggest myself. As I said. You are a poor [Witch], half-formed. If you do anything, I would have you do it well.”

“I’m fine. I’ll decide what I want to be. Not you. Mother.”

Wiskeria glared. Belavierr stared. The two only broke away when they noticed Ryoka edging back. She stopped as both looked at her.

“I’m just—uh, I’ll leave you to it.”

“No, I’m done. Mother, you can continue your work. If Ryoka has questions, she’ll come back and ask. Okay?”

Wiskeria walked away from Belavierr. The other [Witch] didn’t reach out to stop her or move. But her eyes fixed on Wiskeria as she hurried with Ryoka away from the tree. Belavierr kept staring long after Ryoka had hurried back into the warm, glorious bright day. But she was still there, standing and staring.

Eventually, she went back to sitting down. When Ryoka wasn’t watching, of course. One second she was standing and staring, the next second Ryoka looked, she was sewing again in the shadows of the tree, as if she’d never stood.

Not creepy at all. Ryoka shuddered as she sat with Wiskeria. The [Witch] looked embarrassed. She tugged her hat over her reddish cheeks as she sat back down.

“Sorry. I don’t have a good relationship with her. We’re…we have differences of opinion.”

Ryoka stared at Wiskeria. That was what she thought Ryoka was bothered by? Then again—that conversation had been pretty bad if you ignored Belavierr being Belavierr.

And here Ryoka thought her relationship with her mother was bad. From the outset, it looked almost similar. Almost. Angry daughter versus distant, if caring, mother. Okay, Ryoka’s had more been ‘angry daughter and distant mother’ without even the caring bit. In this case…Ryoka looked at Belavierr and suspected Wiskeria had a good reason for not wanting her mother’s help.

Even so, that had been one intense conversation. Ryoka was cursing herself for not thinking of something important to ask. But—her eyes widened as she looked at Wiskeria. Eloise was sipping tea, and Califor had been teaching Nanette how to perform Alevica’s trick. They looked up as Ryoka pointed back at Belavierr.

“Did your mother just say the first String-people were Cloth Golems, Wiskeria?”

Wiskeria paused.

“I…think she did.”

She stared back towards the tree. Ryoka gaped at her. Wiskeria blinked a few times, and Nanette’s jaw dropped. Ryoka looked around at the other [Witches].

“Hey. Hey, isn’t that kind of a big thing?”

Eloise’s brows rose. Califor frowned. She tossed the water cupped in her palm back into the stream.

“It is an old story. One largely ignored by Stitch-folk for the shame of it. I imagine the String-people of Chandrar know most of what Belavierr could tell. Or at least, some of them would. The full tale might be valuable indeed if she was there and saw it all.”

“That is Belavierr for you. She can be very casual with information and secrets. I’ll try to find a book. Perhaps it is a well-guarded secret. Or just secret. Or simply history everyone has forgotten.”

The [Tea Witch] nodded to Califor. Ryoka spluttered.

“But—but how does she know that?”

Califor frowned as Nanette created some steam from her palmful of water.

“From other [Witches], perhaps. Or it may simply be something she learned. She is a master of needle magic. Hmf. She might have been there herself, even.”

It sounded like a joke, so Ryoka laughed.

“She’s not that old. Right?”

Eloise and Califor paused uncertainly. After a second, Califor coughed and shook her head briskly.

“No, of course she isn’t. Did you find the answers to the questions you sought?”

“I…didn’t have a good one to ask. And I froze when I was talking to her.”

Ryoka put her head in her hands. Wiskeria shrugged, looking annoyed.

“We can go back and ask. Do you have anything you want to know?”

She made it sound so casual. Ryoka didn’t know. Put like that, she had a hundred and one questions. What could you ask an immortal [Witch] with creepy eyes who might have been around when Octavia’s entire species had been created? Ryoka’s mind obligingly coughed up a list with a few hundred entries.

What kinds of foods do Dragons like? How do you bribe them? Know of any good treasure buried nearby? Do you have a magical wand I can buy for, like, fifty gold pieces that’s worth two thousand times the price? How do you fly—

How do you bring back a dead friend from the land of the fae? Do they truly die?

Sitting on the grass, the young woman looked up. And the [Witches] sitting around her glanced up sharply. Four, young and old. Ryoka didn’t notice. She gazed up at the blue sky. And she reached into her pocket and felt something cold. Slowly, she shook her head.

“No. No. I think—it’s fine. Sorry. I’ve got to go. I, uh—have some deliveries to do. It was really nice to meet you all.”

She touched her heart and got up. Ryoka turned away and walked back towards Riverfarm. Then away from the village. Suddenly, she wanted to be alone for a bit. She walked past a tree where Alevica was stretched out, using her floating broomstick as a footrest. Away. Her heart filled with memories that snatched her away from the present.

The [Witches] saw it on her. They were sympathetic or indifferent or kind as each wished to be. But none of them stopped Ryoka, although Eloise looked wistfully at the cup she’d been about to offer Ryoka.

That was that for the day. The [Witches] began to pack up the small gathering. They had work to do in Riverfarm, or they simply didn’t need to stay here. They left soon after. But one [Witch] remained. She was stitching. Working on something with cloth and thread, the rest of her unmoving. Until she paused. Then Belavierr glanced up.

She turned her head and watched Ryoka as the Runner girl ran away. And Ryoka had a bad day. But that was nothing new.



—–



Later that evening, the small Runner’s Guild in Filk had a visitor. A Centaur trotted through the open doors, much to the amazement of the [Receptionist] on duty. He stuttered as she walked up to the desk.

“Uh—how can I help you Miss…? Are you here for a delivery?”

“Nope! Doing one! I just came here from Riverfarm. I mean, Riverfarm’s Runner’s Guild. I’m their top Runner. I’m Charlay the Dustrider, by the way. Famous City Runner. You may have heard of me?”

Charlay grinned at the expression on the young man’s face. After a few seconds of frantically whispering with the [Receptionist] next to him, he shook his head.

“Excuse me, Miss Charlay, but Riverfarm doesn’t have a Runner’s Guild. We’re one of the only ones around for miles since Lancrel fell!”

He said that with a bit of pride. Charlay just fixed him with one eye.

“Well, we’re a Runner’s Guild. They just made one. So give me some seals and stuff for the Guild! Lady Rie’ll pay for all of it.”

She slapped a letter down on the counter. The [Receptionist] spluttered, but Charlay was the best Centaur for this job. Mainly because she refused to go away until he gave her what she wanted. Then she happily trotted out of the Runner’s Guild as he spread the news. And wasn’t that big news? Someone had made a Runner’s Guild in Riverfarm? Why? Was something there? You heard about that [Emperor]. Hold on—

And news travelled. But Charlay wasn’t in a place to see the effects. In fact, her next stop in Filk came after she halted three Street Runners, the third of whom pointed her in the direction she wanted to go. As Ryoka had learned in Reizmelt, Runners needed certain services. One of those services came in a very small room with a greasy man who arrogantly put his feet up on his desk and wasn’t at all impressed by Charlay. She glared at him as she folded her arms.

“Well? Can you do it?”

The man sneered across his desk.

“Of course I can. I’m Filk’s best [Fence] and [Broker].”

“Yeah, and that means what, exactly?”

He twitched a bit at that. The man was a Runner’s Opener, and he dealt in letters, but he also had ties to what little of Filk’s criminal underworld there was, and he didn’t like Charlay’s tone. But she also looked ready to kick something in his office, so he weighed his options and replied in an annoyed tone.

“You’re asking for information, but how do I know you’re good for it? You’re not local. You could be with the Watch or trying to rat me out to the Runner’s Guild!”

He was just being annoying, and both he and Charlay knew it. If he thought she was what he’d claimed, she wouldn’t have found him. Charlay stamped one hoof on the old floorboards.

“I’m cool! And it’s not my request. Check your stupid list. This is from Ryoka Griffin, and Fierre of Reizmelt vouches for her. That good for you?”

The man sucked his teeth irritably, but nodded.

“Fierre of Reizmelt. Yeah, I know her. Let me check.”

He was actually a decent [Broker], because he had a file of Runners. Ryoka was a recent addition Charlay noted as she craned her neck to see. The man looked up, covered the sheets of paper, and glared.

“Back off!”

“Can’t. Your room’s too small.”

He looked ready to curse her out. Instead, the man decided to up his price. Gold soothed hurt pride. He nodded grudgingly.

“Ryoka Griffin? Your recommendation’s good. But I want payment in advance! No telling how many people I’ll have to ask for information on Rhir-cursed [Witches].”

“How much?”

“Five big ones.”

“Go eat your tail. One.”

“Don’t be a mule. Three.”

“Take it back!”

“Three’s my final—”

“Take it back or I kick you!”

It was not an idle threat. After a few minutes, the haggling was done. Charlay passed over three gold coins. Mainly because there was a broken floorboard that needed fixing now. The [Broker] leaned back as he accepted the coins and glared.

“Come back in four days. You or Ryoka Griffin. And bring more gold, got it?”

“This had better be good. If it’s not, Ryoka will kick your face in—”

“It’s good! And if it’s not, we’ll talk about fees. Now get out of my office before you kick down a wall!”

Charlay stuck a tongue out at the man as she left. She grumbled as she trotted down the stupid stairs and prepared for a long run back to Riverfarm. Three gold coins? Highway robbery! But it was a down payment, and Ryoka might get a lot of information on the [Witches] or none at all, depending on what the [Broker] could find. She could negotiate with him next time.

The Centauress, peeved, began her long run back to Riverfarm. All the things she put up with. And for what? She shook her head, sighing.

“Ryoka’s lucky to have a friend like me.”





Day 58 – Ryoka



The next day, Ryoka Griffin ran. She had avoided Durene all of yesterday except for when Charlay had come back that night. Then Ryoka had distracted the conversation from more ‘ideas’ by thanking Charlay and buttering her up. And today, she’d set out early on the deliveries Ram and the other villagers had wanted her to make.

She still felt bad after yesterday. It wasn’t right, Ryoka knew. But sometimes, thinking of Ivolethe could just send her in a spiral. She was dead. Ryoka thought she was dead. Maybe she wasn’t. That was the hope Ryoka sometimes clung to. The fae were immortals. Although even gods could die.

But either way, she was gone. When Ryoka thought of her, she thought of her mistakes. In a way, she identified with Wiskeria. How could you make up for so many?

So Ryoka ran to keep her mind off how she felt. It wasn’t a hard run; the dirt roads were deserted. Charlay ran with Ryoka, yawning and complaining, but soon split up to do some of the deliveries. Then Ryoka ran alone. She ran through empty stretches of forest, flat land, up hills, down them.

Rarely did she see settlements. Usually, they were small. Sometimes it was a single home, a cottage made by someone who wanted to live alone. Other times it was a small village. Usually, it was a few houses. A lonely farmstead.

The first home she came to was a [Fisher]’s hut. He lived on the edge of the marshlands. When he opened the door it was warily. Ryoka thought she saw the flash of a knife as he tucked it back into his belt; she’d been on edge after passing a burnt field and had put one hand on a Tripvine Bag. But the man was welcoming enough. And he was very surprised by the letter.

“From Riverfarm? Ram? He can afford a City Runner to just send letters about?”

He incredulously read the letter, sounding some of the words out. It was a short message from Ram, mainly checking on how he was. Ryoka nodded.

“It’s a service for, uh, His Majesty, Emperor Laken Godart. If you want, I’ll take any letters you write on my way back. In a few hours at the latest.”

“Really? Well, I’d better write a response! That’s just grand of you, Miss Griffin. Not many Runner’d do that. And I’d like to write something. Could—could you maybe help me with some of the words?”

Ryoka did just that. The [Fisher] was only too happy to send a lengthy, rambling response. He finished with an invitation for Ram to drop by at some point.

“It’s been a while since I’ve seen anyone around here. Not that I mind, you understand? Only, well, I go into this nearby village to sell some of my fish sometimes, see. Windrest. Only now it’s…gone.”

The young woman looked up.

“Some of Windrest’s people are at Riverfarm.”

“Oh, I know that. But they’re gone and ain’t coming back. And a lot of my neighbors are gone too. This bloke eight miles thataway—I hated the bastard, but now I miss him. Funny.”

The [Fisher] squatted by his rack of dried fish as Ryoka paused, looking the way he pointed. The man spat close to one of his fish.

“Goblins. At first it was the raids from that Great Chieftain what got killed. You heard of him? Tremborag. What kinda world is this where Goblin Chieftains have names? Let alone an army that large!”

“So everyone fled them?”

“Yup. Them Goblin raiders. They burnt and pillaged the area. I stayed because I’ve got my fishing spear and I ain’t about to run, but I can’t blame the others. I saw some of them, you know. Goblins riding wolves. Hundreds of ‘em! Even with an army fighting them—two armies when Lord Veltras arrived!”

“Did they attack your home?”

The man shook his head darkly.

“Not me. It’s hard to find, see? But lots of places aren’t so lucky. And even though the Goblins are gone—there’s less folk about. That’s dangerous. For me and anyone living hereabouts. Hey, would you mind checking in on some I know?”

Ryoka reluctantly nodded.

“I could. But what’s the problem? If the Goblins didn’t get them, they can keep going on as normal, right? Unless it’s the [Bandits].”

“Not just [Bandits], Miss. There’s always some lowlifes about. But if there’s less folk, we can’t group up if there’s a need. You understand what I’m saying? In the past, we’d have run a local [Bandit] group off. But if there’s fewer of us left…”

The young woman thought about what the man meant.

“Less people for a militia, you mean.”

“Exactly. If something big arrives, we come together and fight it. Time was, there were always enough folks with a few Skills like [Long Range Shot] and a good bow, or someone who’d been a [Guard] or a [Warrior]. But less people means more danger. And what with all the places the Goblins burned, there are [Bandits] now, too. Bad times, Miss. Bad times. I worry, but I’ll stay here. I always have. Here. I can’t offer you pay, but take this for the road and share ‘em if you see anyone I know, will you?”

Discontented, the [Fisher] selected three of his fish and offered them to Ryoka. She took the fish and nodded. The [Fisher] was well enough, even if he reminded her of Lupp, intentionally isolated. But he was an outlier.

The second place Ryoka visited was in a tiny settlement, barely more than thirty people, which translated into around twelve buildings, not all of them actual homes. This time, she halted on approach; the arrow that blew by her cheek froze her in place.

“Not a step closer or I loose! Back off and turn around! There’s nothing for you here!”

An [Archer] standing on a crude watchtower shouted at Ryoka. She threw up her hands and shouted back.

“City Runner! I’m a City Runner!”

There was a pause.

“Prove it!”

Ryoka had trouble doing that because the bowman didn’t want her to throw her Runner’s Seal or come closer. Eventually she managed to persuade him by divesting herself of her bag of holding and belt items, and he confirmed her seal at a distance. Then he let her collect her things and approach.

“Sorry, Miss Runner. But none of us expect a Runner in these times. It’s dangerous, you should know. Not worth risking your life over for silver coins.”

“[Bandits]?”

The man lowered the longbow, looking embarrassed, but not ashamed. The [Archer] nodded.

“There’s a bad group led by a [Pyromancer]. Some bastard who throws [Fireballs] with a staff. If you see them, I’d surrender. We’ve been safe because we take turns watching, and half of us can hit anything in range with bows.”

He pointed around the flat land this small settlement had chosen to build in the center of. Ryoka nodded appreciatively.

“I’ve got some letters. You can send a reply if you want. Tell me, how is it around here? I met a [Fisher] who said it was getting dicey?”

“Dicey? Oh—my wife’ll want to read this. Can you take a letter back? I can pay you a bit—”

“No charge.”

“You’re too kind. But step inside and I can give you something to drink. And yes, it’s bad. But we keep on. We always have, so long as we watch out. In a bit, the [Bandits]’ll move on. There’s not much for them; I don’t know why they’re here to begin with. I was a [Watchman] in a big city before I moved here, and I know most [Bandits] like valuable targets, not what they can scavenge. And this group’s nasty. It’s absorbed all the desperate folks. That damn [Mage]—”

Ryoka wondered what the Pithfire Hound’s Captain, Levil, would have made of the rogue [Mage]. She found herself missing those adventurers. She was far from home. What was she doing here? But then, when the [Archer] led her into the small settlement and people came out to meet her, Ryoka felt ashamed.

They were welcoming, offering a drink and asking for the news as the [Archer] resumed his post. Ryoka got to ask one question as they scrambled to send replies back to people they knew in Riverfarm.

“Have you ever thought of moving? Getting away if it’s so dangerous?”

“And how would we do that with the roads occupied by [Bandits], Miss? We’d be a huge target. We’d be homeless. Besides, my great grandfather built this place. We’ll be fine. But I appreciate it. You come right back, and I’ll give you a hot lunch or dinner, you hear? Just wave or my man’ll put an arrow between your eyes. Although he might recognize you, as distinctive as you look! Such lovely hair.”

The wife of the [Archer] pinched Ryoka’s cheek as the other occupants of the houses cursed and looked for their inkpots and something to write a reply with. It was a pleasant experience, and Ryoka ran on.

The third place she visited wasn’t so uplifting. It was burnt. Ryoka slowed warily in front of the large home that could have held a family and a half. Fire had consumed it. She couldn’t tell how old it was, but she did notice a fragment of cloth when she steeled herself to walk inside and look for bodies. It was attached to a beam where someone had carved a deep message and planted it—after the fire.

Going to Melon’s. Look for us in Filk if not there.

Ryoka didn’t know who ‘Melon’ was. But the next two homes saw her to a wary [Herbalist] living by herself and an abandoned home, respectively. The third was Melon’s farm, and he greeted her with a pitchfork at the door.

Say what you wanted about [Farmers] and the dangers of monsters preying on them, but Ryoka pitied the fools who’d try their luck against Melon, the [Farmer] who grew his namesake. His Skills turned the simple pitchfork into something that could go right through a barn door. He happily showed it to Ryoka before telling her the missing family was here. Then his face crumpled up into his bushy brown beard.

“This letter’s from Helm? If it’s Helm—tell him I’ve got three families under my roof. My stores can’t handle the burden—if he can spare anything, coin, wood, food—”

He gestured back at his farm home. It was large, but filled to bursting with his family alone. Apparently three more had come seeking refuge at the doughty [Farmer]’s when trouble had started. What was worse, he couldn’t support them all; his melons were a luxury. Already, the adults had left to make ends meet.

“Half the folks are working in or around Filk, but we’re afraid to try and send the others that way. There are too many folk on the roads. They burnt down Kayla’s two weeks back. Tell Helm.”

“The [Pyromancer]?”

Ryoka frowned. Melon shrugged.

“Don’t know. They haven’t come this way, thank the stars. But I saw smoke Kayla’s way.”

He pointed. Ryoka hesitated.

“Did this Kayla make it out? Her family?”

Melon planted the pitchfork on the ground and shook his head slowly.

“It was just her. And she did not. We found a zombie wandering about and put her back to sleep, properly. Tell me—is that [Emperor] back in Riverfarm? I remember seeing a bunch of [Riders] who were hunting down the Goblins. Where’d he go?”

“He’s not back yet.”

“Damn. Well, I hope to all hells he gets here. There’ve been worse times, believe me. We once had Crelers here. An adult if you can believe it. We had to get a Named Adventurer to come this way, but he turned up fast given the emergency. But who wants to fight [Bandits]? Gah. If it goes on, we’ll have to have a whip round and see if we can muster the gold to hire a Silver-rank team to take the [Bandits] on. But I’d settle for that [Emperor].”

He shook his head. Ryoka stared at Melon. So Laken was wanted. At least by one man. The [Farmer] trooped back to the house, waving at the frightened faces peeking out at him and Ryoka.

“Now, let me write a reply. Can I offer you a melon? Helm can have one. I owe him for this pitchfork anyways. Uh…just say I forgot to give him his money when you were here. Slipped my mind.”

The man’s words stayed with Ryoka throughout the day. And his words were only reinforced by the other places she visited. There were four more wrecks. One fresh. Ryoka saw a body only once. When she did, she ran; the ash looked fresh. She marked each spot and all the people she’d met. Two hadn’t let her get close, and five more had asked for help if it could be spared. She went back, collecting letters and messages. And all the while, she thought.

“This isn’t good.”

Riverfarm was rural, one of those unsettled places on the continent. If they were further north, there might be more bigger towns or cities nearby, more populated land. But Humans had spread more slowly to the south; wars with the Drakes had erased some cities and towns over time, and frankly, there was just more space here still.

“Sort of like the wild west of the United States, I suppose. Too much land for anyone to settle. Not like home right now. But they have to worry about more than wild animals, starvation, and criminals in this world.”

And they did. Oh, they did. The spirit of the [Fisher] living alone by himself with his spear told Ryoka what those early settlers must have been like. Some people took to isolation. You could live happily here. But sometimes calamity happened. And the Goblins had been just that.

An [Emperor] was needed. Or maybe an [Emperor] was just…helpful. Like it would be if someone killed the [Bandits]. The people could live here even if no one helped. Or rather—some would live. Maybe the area would be vacated by all but the most hardy and slowly repopulate, but people would return, barring some kind of major disaster. But that said nothing of the lives Ryoka had met. She thought of Melon’s farm and the [Archer] and his family and realized they were faces she wouldn’t easily forget.

“This is really depressing. And we’re not getting paid.”

Charlay summed up the experience at the end of the day as she and Ryoka ran back. The City Runner glared at her.

“I wouldn’t put it exactly like that, Charlay.”

“Well, I would. All these people were whining to me about how dangerous it is or asking me to carry back supplies. I’m not a pack horse!”

Charlay was indignant. Ryoka sighed and nodded. It was true. There was no profit for them as City Runners to use their talents here. That was why Riverfarm needed a Runner’s Guild so badly, with local Runners who would run for cheap. Hell, it needed patrols. And a damn army, or at least, ten times as many Darksky Riders to keep the place safe. Or a Laken. She ran with Charlay, and after a few minutes, the Centauress looked over.

“Don’t get me wrong. It’s okay to help now and then. I’m fine with not earning money for now. I’ve got lots. Well, compared to these people. But we can’t do anything. We just deliver stuff.”

“Right.”



—–



The two City Runners returned to Riverfarm. Durene and Wiskeria joined them for a dinner in the cottage. Wiskeria informed them that the [Witches] hadn’t caused any trouble. Today, at least.

“It’s not really in their nature to make trouble, besides. They mainly just practiced their craft again today. Eloise, Hedag, Mavika, and my mother, that is. Califor’s teaching Nanette, Alevica’s bored. I guess that’s all we can ask for.”

“Think they’ll hold until Laken gets here?”

Ryoka looked up hopefully. Riverfarm seemed to be decent. Then again, Durene reported that Councilwoman Beatica was trying to get people upset about the [Witches]. But it felt stable. Ryoka wondered if she could just…leave. Laken was still practically two weeks away. Did she have to stay here the entire time? She didn’t want to.

What could she do? Durene kept staring at her. Ryoka thought the answer was nothing. She changed the subject to Hedag, the only [Witch] she hadn’t really met. Ryoka had heard about the infamous head-chopping, of course, but the woman herself was a mystery. Durene frowned.

“I saw Hedag performing tricks for the children. She sold a few trinkets to the women, but is that enough?”

Wiskeria shrugged.

“It’s her craft. She’s not in it to make money. All the [Witches] have other things to sell, though. They’ll do it if they feel like it.”

Ryoka looked up as she sipped from a very filling stew. Charlay was trying to keep hers away from Bismarck.

“I understand Eloise gathered goodwill, and Mavika fed her flock. Belavierr, Califor, and Nanette aren’t gathering today, right? But Hedag. What did she gather from the children?”

It seemed like a pertinent question. Wiskeria paused.

“Nothing. Not yet. But believe me, you’ll know when she does.”

That was appropriately ominous. Ryoka was about to press Wiskeria when Durene interrupted.

“So Ryoka—”

“No, I do not have a magical idea to fix Riverfarm!”

Ryoka shouted at the half-Troll girl. Bismarck, Frostwing, Wiskeria, Charlay, and Durene all stared at her. Durene looked hurt. Ryoka groaned internally.

“I’m sorry, Durene. But I don’t. I shouldn’t have shouted. It’s just that I’m having a bad day. I get them now and then. Actually, that’s an excuse. I just don’t know what to do.”

She stood up. The small cottage watched her as Ryoka turned around, frustrated.

“I don’t even think I’m needed. Okay, there’s a lot that could go wrong here, but you have Lady Rie and Prost. Hell, Miss Califor will probably kick any problems into next Sunday. And you have Beniar and his [Riders]. Even if Councilwoman Beatica riots, so what? You’ve got warriors on your side. What can I do?”

She looked around, shrugging. Durene frowned.

“But Laken sent you when I asked for help.”

Ryoka groaned. She sat back down heavily.

“I don’t think he knows what to do either.”

“Don’t be stupid. Of course he does.”

Durene looked shaken at the thought. That was the problem, wasn’t it? Ryoka didn’t, couldn’t, reply. The dinner ended like that, and they went to sleep silently. Ryoka alternated between kicking herself at lashing out at Durene—even if she felt like the half-Troll girl sort of deserved it—and thinking over her day’s run.

“The people.”

They remained in her memory long after that. Frightened faces. The desperate set of [Farmer] Melon’s jaw. [Bandits] on the road.

This was not her village. Not her place. But she was here, wasn’t she? Ryoka tossed and turned until Charlay threatened to kick her. Her conscience was pricking her. But she had established one fact long ago. She was no fighter. She was no killer. Erin was more likely to wipe out the [Bandits] than Ryoka was. And she was no Erin, no leader.

She had given Laken trebuchets. What would happen if she tried that again? Ballistae? Ryoka would rather eat more rat meat. What was the point of a water wheel? She couldn’t kill [Bandits]. What would Laken do? What was best for Riverfarm? What could she do?

She was spiraling. She wanted to help. But what Ryoka really wanted was to not be here. She was no leader. She knew she was no hero.

But she still cared for everyone she’d met. When had that happened?





Day 59 – Ryoka



The next day, Ryoka went for a longer walk with Nanette and Wiskeria before she embarked on more deliveries with Charlay. It was a spontaneous thing; she encountered the two younger [Witches] picking herbs outside Durene’s hut on her way to Riverfarm. Apparently, Nanette had been assigned to gather a certain amount of herbs by Miss Califor as homework, and Wiskeria was helping her out.

“Hello, Nanette. Wiskeria.”

Ryoka was still down in the dumps. Part of her just wanted to pull the plug and run off into the sunset and forget Riverfarm existed. But she knew she’d regret that too. So instead she walked with the two younger [Witches]. At least the [Witches] were fascinating.

“Um, hello, Miss Ryoka.”

Nanette greeted Ryoka quietly at first, and Ryoka bent to shake the girl’s hand. Nanette was twelve or so and clearly used to life on the road. But her hat and robes fit perfectly, and her hair was combed. Come to that, she was fresher than both Ryoka or Wiskeria, who hadn’t bathed in a day or two.

“I hope I’m not bothering you. I can take off if you want to—I’m just trying to clear my head.”

“Oh, no! I wouldn’t want to be rude. And, uhm—Miss Wiskeria was just saying how three eyes were better than one! Three pairs, I mean.”

The young girl shot a glance at Wiskeria, and the older [Witch] confirmed the lie without blinking. Both looked sideways at Ryoka, and she realized they could probably sense her funk. That only made her feel more depressed. Especially when Nanette solemnly tried to cheer her up by talking to her about all the herbs Miss Califor had ordered her to fetch.

She had the youth of a girl her age, which translated, in her case, into shyness and then a forthright earnestness that both Wiskeria and Ryoka envied. But the [Witch] aspect also showed itself to Ryoka; the girl occasionally had flashes of maturity far beyond her age. Young and old at the same time. But mostly young.

“She seems sort of imposing.”

Ryoka watched as Nanette expertly harvested with a razor-sharp sickle. Not exactly the tool Ryoka would be comfortable handing a girl her age, but Nanette looked quite competent with it. The girl looked up, smiling.

“She wants me to be a good [Witch]. And she’s very kind! I just don’t want to mess up. Because I’m her first apprentice. Her only one.”

Her cheeks turned red with pride, but also, Ryoka thought, nervousness. Ryoka shot Wiskeria a glance, and the [Witch] silently raised her brows, then nodded.

That big, huh? Ryoka turned to Wiskeria.

“What’s it like, being a [Witch]? Do you travel a lot? Or is it all variable?”

Ryoka was curious. Wiskeria shrugged.

“It depends on the [Witch]. Some of us have permanent homes like Eloise. But a lot travel. I think only Eloise has a village. Well, Mavika has her usual haunts. But I hear Miss Califor goes where she’s needed. Isn’t that right, Nanette?”

“That’s right! She used to stay in one place when I was small. But ever since I was…eight? She took me with her. All over the place! One time, she helped kill a nest of Shield Spiders. Hundreds of ‘em! And another time there was a dam that broke, and she helped the local [Witch] relocate the villagers. Miss Califor goes where she’s needed, or so she says.”

“Is that part of her craft?”

Nanette paused as she hunted around a tree and discovered a white toadstool.

“No…she says she takes whatever she wants. Goodwill, anger, all kinds. She’s so good she doesn’t need one emotion or other!”

“Really? And you like being with her?”

Ryoka’s brows shot up. Wiskeria made a face and mouthed the word ‘legend’ at her. She pointed at the white mushroom.

“Deathcap. Remember to wash your hands later. And check for spores and mold before you pick it up.”

“I know!”

Diligently, Nanette did just that and came up with the mushroom twenty seconds later. She put it into the sack and then looked at Ryoka.

“I do like it. Being a [Witch] is fun! Hard work sometimes, but it’s all I’ve ever wanted. Miss Califor raised me since I was a baby, you see—”

She broke off, looking awkward. Ryoka glanced at Nanette. Ah, so she wasn’t a student who’d come to Califor to learn. Wiskeria had said that Miss Califor had never had a student who followed her about. She looked at Wiskeria. The [Witch] tugged at her hat and cleared her throat.

“Well, you met my mother. It’s not common, but it happens. There are cases of [Witches] either adopting a child who was lost or even buying them from [Slavers]. Striking deals for a child—that’s old stuff. Sometimes a [Witch] even has a baby, but most of those cases are young. Old [Witches] rarely take in kids either way.”

Wiskeria adjusted her hat, uncomfortable, and Nanette looked down. Ryoka sensed it was a touchy subject and immediately steered to port.

“Miss Califor once took on a nest of Shield Spiders? That’s impressive. Was it by herself?”

“Almost. She had some [Hunters] and a few villagers with pitchforks, but they said she did all the work. I was too small, but they said it was all her!”

Nanette’s chest puffed out hugely in pride. It was like a girl bragging about her parents. Endearing, but it could get old. Ryoka played along as best she could.

“Then she’s got to be pretty impressive. Heck, this entire coven is. They all feel like they could take on half a dozen Gargoyles and walk out fine.”

“Maybe! Although…Miss Califor says that a good [Witch] never tries to solve things with force the first time around. We’re not as strong as regular classes, at least, not directly. But Miss Califor can do anything!”

Nanette dutifully recited the lesson she’d clearly been taught, but tacked on her own opinion at the end. Ryoka stifled a smirk. She really did like her mentor, huh? Wiskeria rolled her eyes, but gently. She pulled out a wand and tapped it.

“We rely on tools a lot. Like [Wizards]. They’re our counterparts in a sense. Take Alevica for instance. She’s good at magic, and she can summon undead, throw spells, but I think [Lightning Bolt] is her best offensive spell. In exchange for that, she can use poisons, her crossbow, a shortsword, not to mention fly—”

“She’s amazing. Isn’t she? I heard she was the kind of [Witch] you get once in a hundred years—”

The young girl breathed, then realized Wiskeria was making a face. She went on, blushing.

“Not that you’re not amazing too, Wiskeria! I didn’t mean that! And Miss Califor’s the best, obviously.”

At this, Ryoka decided she had to tease the little girl if only to stop more Miss Califor stories. As far as she’d seen, the older witch was polite, a good leader, but like Eloise, just not nearly as…imposing as Hedag, Mavika, or Belavierr.

“I’m sure Witch Califor is an amazing witch, Nanette. Buuuut…if we were comparing the best [Witches], aren’t they all impressive? It’d go…Belavierr, then Mavika, then maybe Califor or Hedag or Alevica, then Eloise, right, Wiskeria?”

Ryoka turned to Wiskeria for confirmation, and Nanette looked outraged. Her cute cheeks puffed out.

“Miss Califor is better than all of them!”

“Including Belavierr?”

Nanette hesitated. She didn’t know Belavierr like the others, so she only stuttered a bit in the face of everything she’d seen.

“Y-yes!”

“I dunno. She’s done like zero magic, hasn’t she?”

“She fought off the bandits!”

“I didn’t see it.”

Child bullying was one of Ryoka’s few talents. The Wind Runner put her hands behind her head, looking innocently helpless.

“Sorry, Nanette. Isn’t it fine if she’s like third? Fourth?”

“Fourth? She’s Witch Calfior! You’ve just never seen other [Witches] talking to her! They take off their hats to her! Don’t say bad things of Miss Califor!”

For such a sweet girl, amazingly, Nanette got incredibly mad. She balled up her fists, stamping her feet, and looked like she might try to fight Ryoka there and then. Wiskeria looked largely amused, but she was eying Ryoka, and the Wind Runner couldn’t help it.

“I just haven’t seen anything, Nanette…”

“A great witch doesn’t need to show anything!”

Here, a note of alarm entered Nanette’s tone, and Ryoka wondered how much fantastic magic Nanette had actually witnessed with her own two eyes. She hesitated.

“She’s—she’s got tons of tales! Like talking down a rampaging Cyclops! Or out-staring a Gazer! She’s made peace between Drakes and Gnolls, and—and she even has magical relics!”

Wait, what? Ryoka blinked, and Wiskeria herself looked interested.

“Really? Which ones?”

Nanette plucked at her own travelling cloak self-importantly.

“Did you see her cloak? It’s a Cloak of Balshadow, a magical artifact that can turn you as invisible as the night! And her staff comes from one of the Great Forests! The same trees that once made Dryads and Treants!”

“Really…?”

Ryoka was skeptical. She didn’t remember anything that impressive from seeing Califor. Even Wiskeria rested her chin in a hand.

“If she was wearing that, she’s either got it well hidden or I’m not good at picking that kind of thing out. Of all the things my mother taught me, I would have noticed that…”

“Still not great magic.”

“She’s amazing! You don’t even know! She’s the best [Witch] ever! None of the others are even close!”

Nanette went storming ahead, and Ryoka decided she’d pushed the girl too far. She hurried over to cajole and apologize to Nanette, and Wiskeria strode alongside the Wind Runner.

“You know, they do tell those kinds of stories about her. My mother might not have known her, but she doesn’t remember anything.”

Ryoka hesitated. Wait, really?



——



A few minutes later, Nanette had cooled down enough to apologize to Wiskeria. She looked very embarrassed, which made Ryoka look like a bully. Nanette’s apology included belittling Wiskeria’s own magic in comparison to Alevica, but Wiskeria waved this off.

“You don’t need to make me feel better, Nanette. I’m sure Miss Califor has a lesson about being realistic. I know I’m average. My mother tells me I need to improve all the time.”

So why don’t you? The question hung in the air unasked. Wiskeria tugged on her hat and answered slowly.

“It’s hard to use my craft. You see, a [Witch] does what she is compelled to do. Her craft is her purpose, in a sense. She draws strength from it. That’s also how a [Witch] is made.”

“How you’re made? And how’s that? You don’t just get the class?”

“Oh no. You have to have a moment that defines you as a [Witch]. A moment of…passion. It’s a calling. You also need a talent for magic or to want to be a [Witch], but some of us are called to it. Others just become [Mages]. But we’ve all had one. I was surprised Nanette was a [Witch] so young.”

“I got my class when I was six.”

“Six?”

Wiskeria was astonished. Nanette nodded cheerfully. Wiskeria tugged on her hat.

“I was fourteen. Of course, I wanted to be a [Witch]. But I never got the class. And when I did—well—”

She trailed off. Nanette pretended to be busy peeling bark off a tree. Ryoka hesitated. Now this was the heart of what was Wiskeria’s problem with Belavierr. She waited a beat, then asked.

“What made you become a [Witch], Wiskeria? If that’s not too personal?”

“It always is. But it’s fine. It’s no secret among [Witches]. Nanette could tell you.”

The girl squeaked and began to deny it shiftily. Wiskeria shook her head. She turned to face Ryoka.

“You know my mother’s Belavierr. And you know she’s…extraordinary. Even among other [Witches]. I always thought it was, well, not normal, but she was my mother growing up. But she’s old. The oldest, perhaps the strongest. I’m not joking, Ryoka.”

Nanette opened her mouth, perhaps to once again claim Califor-based dominion, but one look at Wiskeria’s grave expression and she fell silent.

“I know. Even I can tell that.”

“Well then. I always thought I’d be like her. I learned—you can learn magic, you know, even if you don’t have a class. Not many people know that. I was a [Mage] and a [Sewer], but I wasn’t a [Witch]. Mother always told me it would come. And I wanted it. And when it happened—well, that’s when I left. My mother taught me many secrets, but I haven’t been a [Witch] and used much of my craft yet. You could say I’m incomplete as a [Witch]. Certainly for the daughter of Belavierr, the Stitch Witch.”

The words were spilling out of her. Wiskeria took a shuddering breath, her normally calm façade gone. Ryoka waited as Nanette stared wide-eyed at the older [Witch] in the forest.

“What made you into a [Witch]?”

Wiskeria looked around. She closed her eyes.

“Seeing my mother for who she truly was.”

No one spoke after that. Wiskeria looked at them, and Ryoka silently helped her and Nanette peel more bark. Ryoka felt guilty for asking. What did she expect? After another long moment, another confession burst from Wiskeria’s mouth.

“She’s not my mother either. She found me and took me in. No one could believe it, apparently. She doesn’t…show kindness to children. But she took me in, and she says I’m her true daughter. I wish I could believe that with all my heart. But I’ve known my mother, and I’ve never met anything in this world she loves.”

Except for you? Ryoka thought of Belavierr focusing on Wiskeria. But she bit her tongue. Because part of her didn’t know if she believed it either. Nanette looked between Wiskeria and Ryoka. She was so nervous she cut her arm as she harvested a bit of Sage’s Grass.

“Nanette!”

Ryoka fumbled for a healing potion at the same time as Wiskeria. Nanette looked at the deep, deep slash on her arm and fainted. When she came around, she sat up, protesting weakly.

“I’m fine! I’m fine! I just—don’t tell Miss Califor, please? A [Witch] should never faint. Other people do the fainting, but we have to be awake or who else will?”

Wiskeria and Ryoka shared a shaky laugh. Ryoka pointed down at the girl’s healed arm. Not a scar was left, but Nanette’s eyes widened as she saw the dried blood.

“I think we should tell her. You’re healed, but that was dangerous.”

“No! She won’t trust me with herb gathering again!”

Nanette looked horrified. Wiskeria hesitated.

“Nanette—”

“I don’t want to disappoint her. She let me use a sickle just last year.”

The girl was close to tears. Ryoka scrubbed a hand through her hair. Wiskeria hesitated.

“That’s unusual. Califor believes in learning by experience. I sliced my hand to the bone, and she just told me to practice a mending brew on it. I guess she’s careful because you’re young, Nanette. But really—”

“No!”

“Come on, we’ll tell her it was our fault. But she should know. She’s your teacher. What’s the worst that’ll happen? She’ll turn us into frogs while cackling? It’s fine, Nanette. But you should tell her.”

Ryoka gently teased the girl. Wiskeria caught on.

“Exactly. She’s not going to punish you, Nanette. Maybe scold a bit. But she’ll hardly get on a broom and race about with a black cat casting hexes.”

“Oh? You’re familiar with the [Witches] I know? Don’t forget enchanted scarecrows and dancing around naked by moonlight. Hey, Wiskeria, give me an evil cackle.”

The City Runner grinned at Wiskeria. The [Witch] laughed, and Nanette calmed down a bit. Chuckling, Wiskeria helped her clean off her arm.

“I don’t know any [Witch] that cackles, Ryoka. I’m sure my mother could do a splendid one, but I’ve heard her laugh exactly twice in my entire life. Hedag’s got a great laugh.”

“And a booming voice. That’s a great laugh; you’re right. But I can’t imagine her cackling. I could imagine Mavika cackling, though.”

“You think so? I haven’t heard her do it. Mind you, when she gets angry, she will screech and scream. You don’t want to see her cast a hex. And believe me, she can do a nasty one.”

“I heard Miss Califor cackle once.”

“Really?”

The two young women looked at Nanette. She nodded.

“She only did it once. She was embarrassed afterwards. She says it plays into, uh—uh—stereotypes about [Witches].”

“That it does. But I think she’ll be fine when you explain about the cut.”

Ryoka smiled, and Nanette reluctantly nodded. Ryoka straightened up. It was fun being together with Nanette and Wiskeria. Fun! They resumed gathering, and Nanette announced that she was nearly done with her collecting! As soon as she did, Ryoka realized she’d have to face Durene and her questions. And Riverfarm. Her good mood sank through her bare feet and into the ground.

“Gah.”

Wiskeria snapped her fingers.

“And you were cheering up. What’s wrong, Ryoka? Was it yesterday, meeting all those people? Or is it Durene? I know she’s insistent, but she trusts you. She thinks since Laken sent you, you can make things right. She really misses him. I’m sorry she’s so…”

She waved one hand. Ryoka nodded. Durene was persistent, stubborn, and clingy. Which made sense if you remembered that she was a half-Troll girl who’d lived her entire life as a social outcast. Laken had clearly been the first person to see her as a person, and Ryoka remembered the way he’d been protective of her as much as she was of him in Invrisil. But even so. She shook her head as she walked back with Nanette and Wiskeria through the forest.

“I just don’t know how to help her, Wiskeria. Or Riverfarm. I’d like to do something. But I don’t know what. I’m no [Emperor]. And I can’t give Riverfarm a grand idea. I just…”

She thought of the people. Damn it. Why did she have to care? Charlay cared, but in a sympathetic way. But Ryoka?

Ryoka was a girl from Earth. A girl who read stories about dying people, crises of humanity in Darfur, or monsters pretending to be men. Dying people. People in need. And greed and indifference in her home. She was angry. Had been angry. An angry girl. At herself, her father, at injustice. Part of her still was. But what could you do?

Nothing. Everything. But she was no [Emperor]. Ryoka stopped, closing her eyes. Into that silence, Nanette hesitantly spoke. The young [Witch] adjusted her hat and spoke up in a clear, carrying voice.

“It’s fine just to do what you want. So long as it’s something you won’t regret. You only live once. And I won’t die with any more regrets on my hat. Uh—that’s what Miss Califor says. Not me.”

The bright voice went right through Ryoka, like an arrow. She felt the words sink into her, but without barbs. I won’t die with any more regrets.

Mrsha and Ivolethe. The Horns and the Pithfire Hounds. You couldn’t go back. But you could go forwards. Without regrets? Ryoka had many. But she didn’t want to leave Riverfarm with another. She bent, and a smile crossed her face. It was rueful, because Ryoka knew it was a stupid idea she’d had. But it was hers. And this was something of her world. Why not? She straightened and looked at Nanette. The girl was watching her cautiously.

“Miss Califor says that? She’s a great [Witch], isn’t she?”

“The best in the world.”

Nanette shot Wiskeria a daring glance. The older [Witch] only smiled and tugged on her hat. Ryoka stared down at Nanette. She wondered if she’d ever been like this. And Wiskeria—Ryoka could have been looking into a mirror. But for the paler skin, yellow-green eyes, shorter height, and glasses. A mirror.

Ryoka shook her head. When did she start seeing so much of herself in the women and girls she met? No—in so many people? She straightened, took a breath, and smiled.

“I’ve got to go. Thanks, Nanette. Wiskeria. This really helped me.”

“Anytime. But where are you going, Ryoka?”

“Back to Durene’s cottage. And then into Riverfarm. I have to find Lady Rie and Prost. Catch up soon—you might want to be part of this! Got to run! Thank you! Again!”

The two [Witches] watched as Ryoka took off, running at full-speed through the forest. And they felt it, radiating off her. Where Ryoka had been dark, depressed, the clouds had lifted. Much like the blue skies overhead. But now something else poured from her. It was—

Wiskeria nudged Nanette, and the girl started. She looked up hesitantly.

“Can I—?”

“Go for it. She won’t feel it, and she won’t mind, I’m sure. You can tell her later.”

The young [Witch] nodded, then she turned and stared at Ryoka’s rapidly disappearing back. She hesitated, then she cupped her hands, pulled, and Wiskeria felt her tug a bit of the emotion from Ryoka.

It wasn’t something you could see. One second, Nanette pulled, and then she had it. It rested in her hands in a metaphorical sense. Wiskeria could sense it. A bit of…happiness.

Pure happiness. Wiskeria almost couldn’t look directly at it. And it was no emotion she’d ever use. What [Witch] would try to base her craft around something like that? Happiness? As fleeting and hard to grasp as a butterfly in a tornado. And surely useless! Who could make something out of that? How would it last?

Nanette held it and smiled, with ease. With grace. And in her hands, it pulsed, a burning, bright feeling from Ryoka. It didn’t flicker out. Because happiness lasted longer in her hands. Because it was her.

In that moment, Wiskeria envied Nanette more than she could say. She carefully cleared her throat.

“What will you make of it?”

“I don’t know. I have a few charms, but I think I’ll ask Miss Califor. I’ll put it here.”

So saying, Nanette reached up and lifted her hat. She tipped the little bit of happiness under her hat and smiled. Wiskeria sighed. But then she gestured, and they walked on through the forest. Two [Witches]. But of the two, one was growing, leveling. The other had stopped leveling years ago.





Day 59 – Durene



“You want to send food and supplies to the people in the outlying farms and villages you met. Food. Supplies. Wood.”

“That’s right. As much as Riverfarm can spare. And not just that. I want to take as many people back to Riverfarm as I can. Anyone who wants to come. Beniar and his [Riders] will need to provide us with an escort in case the [Bandits] are about.”

Lady Rie and Prost stared at Ryoka as she outlined her plan, pointing to a map of the area. So did Durene. Ryoka had raced into her cottage all excited. Durene had thought she’d come up with a good idea after yesterday. But no—Ryoka had told her to come to the village, gotten the two leaders, and now she wanted…

“And what exactly does Riverfarm get out of this? Out of giving…how much food and other materials away? I could see us taking in more people, but are we asking for coin for all this or what? Because I know these folks, and they won’t have much.”

Mister Prost was frowning at the map. Ryoka spread her hands on the table.

“No. We don’t ask for anything. This isn’t a give or take. It’s all give. If they need food, they get food. If they want to come back—and we should try persuading them—they can. But anyone who asks for help gets it.”

“Charity. You’re telling us to give away Riverfarm’s resources.”

Rie massaged her eyes with two painted fingernails. Ryoka nodded.

“Yes.”

The four listeners in the room paused. Durene looked incredulously at Ryoka. This was the big idea that she’d come up with? It was terrible! Alright, it would help people out. Durene understood they were in trouble. But…she clenched one fist and looked to one side.

Rie and Prost traded looks. Rie shook her head, and Prost sighed. Even Charlay was looking uncertainly at Ryoka. But she was standing by her friend. The [Steward] addressed Ryoka curtly.

“Miss Griffin, I feel for the folks who’re caught outside Riverfarm. I do. But it’s their choice to stay where they are. Some, now, some might want to come to Riverfarm, and I could say yes to seeing whoever wants to join the village. We could use more hands, although we’ll have to build a home for them. But see here, giving food away—it’s a noble thought—”

He looked at Lady Rie. She nodded and took over.

“Exactly. It is a noble’s thought. Something one of my peers might come up with. And few enough of them. It’s giving away gold or the equivalent needlessly. The point of charity, Miss Griffin, is laudable. But it’s a well-known fact that people level in times of adversity. And harsh as it may be, one cannot hold the hands of others. They must survive on their own. Generosity is acceptable, but this? This is madness.”

Ryoka listened to Rie calmly. But all she did after the [Lady] was done was shake her head.

“I get that. And I understand the reasoning that goes into that. Especially with levels. But Lady Rie. Do you know who you remind me of when you say that? Magnolia Reinhart.”

Lady Rie gasped. Her eyes flashed. Durene looked nervously at Ryoka. The young woman didn’t blink as she met Rie’s furious gaze.

“I know it’s not practical. I know people level under stress. And I know many would. But guess what? For every person that manages to level up, to survive this, people will die. That’s reality.”

“Yes. But we can’t save everyone, Miss Griffin. I understand your point. But I’ve been a [Farmer] for decades. And I know about lending a hand to a neighbor in need. But sometimes, in a cold winter, there’s not enough to give. Not if you want you and your own to live. Those are the hard choices we make sometimes.”

[Steward] Prost looked at Ryoka. She nodded heavily.

“That’s true too. But is this winter, Mister Prost? I’ve seen your fields. You could pay Mavika’s fee. You have [Farmers] with plenty of Skills. Is wood an issue? Will Riverfarm starve if it emptied its storehouses tomorrow?”

“Maybe not today. But what of this winter? What of the future, the guilds you suggested building? Would you destroy all of Riverfarm’s potential by giving it away?”

Rie snapped, her eyes flashing. Ryoka met Rie’s eyes and shook her head.

“No. But if you can give. Give. If you could save a life by reaching out, wouldn’t you? Prost, Rie. Durene. I know this doesn’t make sense to you. And it won’t help Riverfarm. But it’s something I have to do.”

She looked around. Ryoka’s eyes were bright. She looked more animated than Durene could remember seeing her. Not just that. She was smiling slightly. She spread her hands.

“It’s what’s right. And it’s what I know. If you have a problem with it, talk to Laken. I hope he’d agree with me. But I’ll do it myself if I must. I’ll buy your produce. But some of those people won’t survive if they don’t come here. I’m not saying to empty all the storehouses. Yet if you can do something, do it.”

“What if they come back next month, begging for more? If they rely on us? If we give and that makes them targets. Or we give and it’s not enough? If we give a third of our field’s harvests to them?”

“Mister Prost. You’re speaking in hypotheticals. I’m not telling you to do this forever. If they become leeches, that’s a problem you deal with. If Riverfarm is in trouble, you should absolutely make sure the people here are safe. But this is a crisis. And you’re in a position to help. Aren’t you doing it already with Beniar and his patrols? If the Goblins were back, ravaging the landscape, wouldn’t you try to get those people to safety?”

Ryoka looked around. Charlay smiled and gave her two thumbs-up. Rie was shaking her head. Prost was troubled, silent. Durene felt she had to speak. Part of her wanted to believe in Ryoka. But it wasn’t practical.

“Ryoka. I think it makes sense to bring people back here if they want to come. But giving food away? That’s asking for trouble. What’ll happen if the [Bandits] hear we can just give out stuff? Or—if we have a disaster—”

She fumbled. Her tongue felt heavy. It was hard to argue against. And Ryoka met her eyes. Two calm, brown eyes in Durene’s face. The Runner girl shook her head.

“Durene. I know. It doesn’t make sense. And it is hard. But where I come from. In my home and Laken’s, people say the same things. Some days it feels like there’s an emergency every other moment. And how do you deal with that? Crime. People in far off-countries. People you’ll never see. But we could help.”

She gazed far away, past Durene.

“We could. And it could be glorious. It’s never easy. Sometimes, it costs you. Sometimes, you fail.”

She raised her right hand and stared at it. Durene glanced at the place where two fingers should have been. Ryoka closed her eyes and her hand.

“But. I’d rather try than regret it. It’s called giving aid. Because people need it. Because you can. I don’t have any argument stronger than that. And it reminds me of a village I heard about, once. A place that was in the middle of nowhere. It didn’t have much. And—hell—it got buried by an avalanche.”

Durene and Prost froze. Ryoka looked up.

“Then it lost all of its winter stores. There was no reason for anyone to help that village. None at all. But someone did. He found people in the snow. And he asked me to deliver them food in a blizzard. Because he cared for people when no one else would. If he were here, what do you think he’d do?”

She smiled slightly. Lady Rie bit her lip as she glanced at Prost’s face.

“I’ll—I can have Nesor send a [Message].”

“No, Rie. I think I know what His Majesty will say.”

Prost sighed. He studied the map filled with tiny dots. Durene looked down. They were so small. But they were people’s homes. People like her. She scrubbed at her eyes. Why did Ryoka have to make so much sense?

“We can spare some wagons. And Beniar. It’ll be just food and wood, mainly. But—arrows? We can send a few bows as well. I’ll see what we can spare.”

Prost strode out of the room before Rie could object. Ryoka smiled, relieved, and Charlay patted her on the shoulder. Rie sighed loudly, but she followed him without a word. Ryoka turned.

“Durene.”

“It makes sense. But it’s going to be costly. I know it’s what Laken would do. I guess—is this something a [Paladin] would do?”

Durene looked at Ryoka, hoping the answer was yes. But Ryoka just shook her head.

“I can’t answer that. And I have to tell you something, Durene.”

She took a deep breath.

“I don’t have a brilliant idea for you. I gave up on trying those after Laken used his trebuchets to attack a Drake city. But I do know what’s right and what’s wrong. And I want to do what’s right. But I have to tell you—I can’t help you, Durene.”

The words stung. But Durene had expected as much after Ryoka had shouted at her yesterday. The half-Troll girl looked down.

“That’s fine. So long as you stick around for Riverfarm…”

“No, I mean, I can’t help you, Durene. You need to do that to yourself. That’s what I’ve been meaning to tell you. I didn’t get it at first. But that’s your problem.”

Ryoka walked around the desk to look up at Durene. Her face was concerned. Durene blinked at her.

“What do you mean? Help myself? I do plenty for myself. It’s just that I don’t know what to do for everyone else.”

The shorter Human girl shook her head slowly.

“I don’t think that’s the problem. Listen to how you speak, Durene. I have. ‘Laken says this. Prost and Rie say that. Wiskeria won’t make an army, so that’s that.’ You don’t make decisions for yourself.”

“I do! All the time! It’s just that I trust Laken. And he has better ideas than I do!”

Durene recoiled, stung. Ryoka sighed.

“But he doesn’t. That’s the problem. You think he does, but Durene—he’s just a guy.”

The half-Troll girl felt a spark of fury in her breast. How dare Ryoka? She didn’t understand Laken at all.

“He’s an [Emperor].”

“And what was he when he arrived in Riverfarm?”

Durene hesitated.

“But—he just didn’t have the class. He was always—”

Ryoka put a hand on Durene’s shoulder. Or rather, tried to. She settled for Durene’s arm and squeezed gently. Durene started at the contact. People didn’t really touch her on purpose. Laken did, but—Ryoka looked up at her.

“Durene. I’m not saying Laken’s all wrong. But—the person who’ll tell you what to do? The person you’re waiting for. It’s not me. And it’s not Laken! Neither of us are perfect role models. Or even good ones!”

She spread her arms helplessly.

“You can’t rely on him to tell you what to do. I know. He helped you when no one else would, right? He gave you a class. Gave you…a purpose. Worth. But he can’t give you everything. And if he comes back, you’re the one leaning on him. If you can’t make your own decisions, your own choices, if you’re not you without Laken, you can’t give him anything.”

Durene rocked back. This hurt. More than any insult could. She clenched a hand, realized what she was doing, and unclenched it.

“But—I’m his protector. I can do that for him! What am I supposed to be if not that? I’m not good with words, Ryoka. I can’t do what you do. See? And I can’t be smart like you or Lady Rie.”

“I’m not asking you to, Durene. I’m just asking you to decide what you want by yourself. You can ask for help. Everyone needs help. But I can’t carry you. Like Prost said. What I can do is reach out if you’re drowning. But you have to learn to swim.”

The half-Troll girl bent down. She felt crushed by Ryoka’s words in a way nothing had hit her before. Not even that Hob. She had to sit on the ground. Hug her knees. Ryoka’s words made sense. But—it was so hard. She didn’t know what to say. Ryoka wasn’t leaving; Durene could still feel her arm on her shoulder, patting awkwardly.

“Durene. I know it’s hard—but you’re the toughest girl I’ve met. Literally. You can wrestle Bismarck. Not just that. You’re kind. You helped Wiskeria where no one else would. You took Laken in. You’re not a brute. And you’re not a monster. You can be a [Paladin]. You can be a [Farmer]. But you do have to choose.”

The half-Troll girl didn’t respond. Ryoka paused, then went on.

“Durene—”

“I can swim.”

“Huh?”

Durene didn’t look up. She muttered.

“I can swim. I taught myself. Riverfarm has a river. I can swim.”

Unseen by her, Ryoka smiled.

“There you go. And look—I don’t mean I’m going to just shut you out. I’ve been rude to you. But I can help. Not tell you what to do.”

“But who am I supposed to be?”

Durene didn’t like the petulant note in her voice. She looked up, ashamed by the stinging in her eyes.

“I wasn’t anyone before I met Laken, Ryoka. Just some girl no one liked. And I’m strong, but is that it?”

“No—no. You could be—”

Ryoka hesitated. Durene shouted.

“Aha! See? What am I besides the half-Troll girl?”

“I—”

“Well, you are one. Half-Troll, that is.”

The voice came from behind Ryoka. The City Runner looked around. Charlay waved a hand.

“Hi. I’m still here. You forgot about me, didn’t you?”

The two girls paused. They had. Charlay trotted forwards a few steps. She pointed at Durene.

“You’re half-Troll.”

“Charlay, this isn’t helping—”

“Shush, Ryoka. Let me finish. Durene. Listen. I know what your problem is.”

“You do?”

The Centauress nodded with complete certainty.

“Absolutely. You’re thinking like a Human. They do this all the time. Ryoka doesn’t, but no one told you because you live among Humans. Typical.”

“Charlay.”

“Shush. Durene. You’re half-Troll. I’m a Centaur! Look at me!”

Charlay spread her arms, gesturing towards her horse-half. Durene looked at her. Charlay was as unique as she was. No—more so. The Centauress was different in one respect, though: she was proud. She poked a finger into her chest and then jabbed Ryoka in the side. The Human girl yelped.

“You know what Humans do? They always say ‘you have to be like me’. All the time. And anyone who’s better than them is weird. I hear it in the Runner’s Guilds. ‘Ooh, look at Charlay! She’s a horse! That’s why she runs so fast! Well, that’s all she can do. Because she’s a stupid horse.’ Yeah! And so what?”

She stamped one hoof angrily.

“I’m a Centaur! What, do you think I’m good at scratching my butt with my hands? That’s disgusting! And that’s why I have a tail! I’m good at running, and I’m half-horse. That’s what I am. What’s the problem? Yes, I’m better at running fast! Horse! Humans have different talents. They can’t run fast as I can. I can’t do stairs well. What’s the problem?”

She pointed at Durene. The half-Troll girl gulped.

“But I’m part Troll. Isn’t that—”

“What? What? Bad because you have skin like a rock and you can punch a hole through Ryoka’s head without trying? Because you’re one in, like, a million? I’ve seen Trolls in Baleros. They don’t get sad when people insult them. They mush their brains, then go off and do Troll things, and they’re fine with that! I’m fine with being me, too, even though all these Humans keep pointing at me as if I’m the weird one. You know who’s weird in Baleros? Humans.”

Charlay tossed her head. She pointed down at Durene.

“Ryoka’s right. You need to do your own thing. And if that involves hitting things because you’re good at it, hit things! I’m good at running, so I came to Izril to be the best Runner on the continent. And that’s fine. I’ve never been sad about being me. You have problems. You should fix that.”

She jabbed a finger at Durene. Then she turned.

“Come on, Ryoka. Let’s go deliver food to some Humans. Nice speech, by the way. That was really cool. I knew I hung out with you for a reason.”

She trotted out the door. Ryoka and Durene stared after her, and then Ryoka got up. She looked at Durene and smiled ruefully.

“And just when I thought I knew her. I knew I hung out with that Centauress for a reason. Durene—I’ve got to run. But I could use some help. If you want to give it. And if not—you know who you could watch for inspiration?”

“Who?”

“The coven. They’re [Witches], yeah. And their class is different than yours or mine. But look—they know themselves. They’re women. And they’re not ashamed to be themselves. Neither am I. You shouldn’t be either.”

Ryoka patted Durene on the shoulder. Then she was gone. The half-Troll girl sat on the floor of Rie’s home for a while. She looked down at the floorboards. At the open door. She thought about what Ryoka had said. Charlay. Then, slowly, she got up.

It seemed like the thing to do.



—–



Durene was slightly late to Riverfarm. By the time she arrived, a crowd had gathered to watch a bunch of wagons being loaded. Or rather, argue about the loading.

The wagons were supposed to be filled with goods. Food, wood, nails—anything that might be urgently needed. Even seeds for planting. It was Riverfarm’s hard work being prepared to be sent away, and many people weren’t happy about it.

“Why should our hard work go to feed people who will give Riverfarm nothing?”

Councilwoman Beatica was on the attack. But Ryoka faced her down. She was trying to come up with a list for the villages.

“Councilwoman, why should Riverfarm have taken you in when it was their people who died at Lancrel and their village, homes, and food you needed? Why was it an [Emperor] who came to Riverfarm’s aid? Perhaps because it was the right thing to do.”

The [Councilwoman] bit her tongue. Some of Lancrel’s people voiced their dissent as well. But for every person scowling at the waste, more people were listening sympathetically. Especially Riverfarm’s own—but most were just standing by, watching. [Mayor] Rodivek shouted after a second.

“You don’t have the authority to do this. We should wait for Emperor Laken. If we’re short of supplies or food because of you, that’s on your head!”

“If!”

Ryoka was arguing fiercely with the two and trying to chivvy along the people loading the wagons, but she was working from both ends.

Durene stared at Ryoka as the Wind Runner strode back and forth. She was animated, moving from place to place in front of the wagons, talking with Prost, addressing the crowd, planning the route with Beniar. She was…shining. In a different way than Laken. But Durene felt like shading her eyes, as if Ryoka were giving off a light.

She wasn’t the only person to see it. The coven had gathered. Not Belavierr, but the rest. They saw the same thing more concretely than Durene. Eloise was smiling. Alevica shook her head as she eyed Ryoka.

“You know, she’s like this, apparently.”

“Who? Miss Griffin?”

Nanette was smiling as she held onto her hat. She cupped more of Ryoka’s emotions, and Califor nodded approvingly. Alevica shrugged.

“Yup. She saved a Gnoll kid from the Goblin Lord’s army, apparently. Does emergency runs for adventuring teams; that’s a suicidal decision if ever I saw one. And this? She’s an odd one.”

Hedag laughed. The huge [Witch] tipped her hat up, regarding Ryoka with a big smile.

“You’d do that if you cared about whether people live or die. There goes a girl who’d put her life on the line for copper pennies because she weighs lives like gold, Alevica.”

The Witch Runner scowled. She jerked her head at Ryoka.

“She has her up days and down days, clearly.”

Eloise nodded thoughtfully.

“Yes. I’ll sell her some teas later. But it’s a wonderful up, isn’t it?”

Durene heard no more, because she was pushing through the crowd. Ryoka spotted her; of course she did. She swung herself down from a wagon and looked expectantly at Durene. The half-Troll girl took a breath.

“I’m coming. If that’s alright. I mean, I’m going whether you like it or not.”

She had a walking staff, and she’d brought a lunch. Ryoka’s smile made Durene smile in turn. Ryoka nodded.

When Durene took Ryoka’s side, the [Mayor] and [Councilwoman] and the crowd stepped back. Not just for Durene’s height, or so she hoped, but because it meant Laken was on Ryoka’s side. Laken would have believed in Ryoka’s plan.

And as it so happened—someone else did too. A pointed hat came marching through the crowd as Mayor Rodivek drew breath for a second shouting match.

“If you think we’ll risk our lives for no gain—”

“Ah, so you’re riding with Miss Griffin? Well done, man. Onto the wagons you go. We could use another hauler or driver.”

A voice spoke loudly in Rodivek’s ear, and he jumped—saw Witch Califor standing behind him, and nearly leapt into Beatica.

Witch Califor and Nanette, shyly waving at Ryoka, had appeared like a storm. And like a storm—she’d brought more than just herself with her.

Ryoka had barely a dozen helpers besieged by angry Lancrel people not quite actually blocking them. Now, she saw Califor and dozens of Riverfarm people, arms loaded with goods and boxes, heading towards the wagon.

“Witch Califor?”

“Well done.”

That was all the woman said. She strode forwards and deposited something onto the wagons. When she turned, she offered Ryoka a slight smile of approval.

“A wagon does more than a single Runner with a bag of holding. When Nanette came to tell me what you were doing, I decided I should merge my craft with yours.”

Her…craft? Wait, that was right! Califor hadn’t done any great magics. And yet…she was here right now, and Ryoka heard Rodivek shouting.

“Now you’re letting a [Witch] give away our goods? Miss Yesel! Is this cleared with His Majesty? What about—”

He kept shouting, but somehow, though his voice didn’t dim in volume, it suddenly became less important. Califor finished wiggling a finger around in one ear, then gave Durene a faint wink.

More magic? It was always subtle—but from the way Ryoka jumped and felt at her ears, she’d felt it too! Durene’s eyes were wide.

“You, uh—you had the same thought?”

Ryoka spoke somewhat oddly to Califor, as if not sure what her angle was. But the Witch was all business.

“This is my craft, Miss Griffin.”

“Aid work?”

“No. Being a busybody. A lesson for you: men and women like that are best ignored. Often, if you pay them no mind, you sway more heads by silence alone.”

It was true. Completely ignored, even the Lancrel people were staring at the wagons and the two representatives and hesitating. Were they really blocking people from getting food to starving villages?

Califor was inspecting the contents of one wagon. She nodded as she saw the nails and wood.

“I think I have most of what is needed here, too.”

What had she brought? Well—spare clothing. Blankets, all courtesy of Miss Yesel. Not just that! Soap! Califor was rattling off a list as if she’d memorized it.

“Nanette? Take note. We’re missing…lantern oil. Toilet paper. Hm. Does Riverfarm have any toys?”

“Toys?”

Califor glanced at Ryoka.

“For children. Nothing cheers one up like a single toy. Now, I see three wagons. Is that for your group?”

Ryoka hesitated. She looked around, and a man hurried over, looking gratified as he saw a lot of the work had already been done.

“Mister Prost? I think the wagons are almost set. We’re just getting lantern oil and a few things. Are we allowed to go?”

He nodded.

“We have the wagons loaded, and Beniar says we can make the trip in a day and have you all back tonight so long as you keep moving. The problem is animals. We’re two short, and I don’t know if we can spare more. Can you manage with three wagons?”

Ryoka grimaced. Prost looked apologetic.

“We have few enough draft animals as it is. The Darksky Riders have our best horses, and the rest are needed for plough work and the like. I can give you exactly four wagons, but the last one can’t be pulled. You’ll have to fit the rest into what you can carry.”

“I’ll load my [Riders] up with a bit in the saddlebags. If we had an animal or two, we could get more on the wagons…”

Beniar offered that while glancing sideways at Califor, who did have a horse along with Nanette. The Witch gave Beniar a polite smile and tipped her hat.

“Well thought out, Captain Beniar. But I fear my horses will have to carry Nanette and I.”

“Oh, will you be riding with us?”

“No. We shall ride towards another village. With that cart.”

So saying, Califor pointed, and Ryoka saw a ridiculously small cart attached to a harness and Nanette’s pony. It was about big enough to fit a single Nanette, who was striding back importantly with Miss Yesel and the lantern oil.

Everyone stared at the cart, and Beniar turned a laugh into a cough.

“Uh—are you going to a few houses, Miss Califor? That’s not a bad idea…”

“I think I shall visit as many villages as I can. Don’t fear about the cart. But do watch out for bandits on the road, Miss Griffin.”

Califor adjusted her hat, and this time, Ryoka stared at her, but didn’t instantly snigger. She peered at the cart. It was really too small to hold more than two sacks of grain. Califor looked serious. If anything, she seemed focused. Approving of Ryoka.

“These are the things [Witches] do that matter. Nanette! Don’t hurt yourself putting the oil in the wagon. Prepare for a long ride.”

“Yes, Miss Califor!”

Nanette hollered, and Ryoka saw she had a crate of cheap oil. Canola or something; it left a residue, but it burned well, and it was perfect if someone didn’t have [Light] spells. It was a fairly heavy crate, and her face turned red until Durene walked over and put it in the cart.

The wagons already had a box each, and the oil filled up a good part of the cart. Ryoka began to ask Califor how much she planned on delivering when she frowned.

No, wait. There was enough barley for a good few meals. Califor had piled up six bags until the cart was almost overflowing. Of course, that was only enough for a few households to live on. Which was why she’d put two more bags of Yellats and even dried meat next to the bags. Oh, and firewood!

Firewood mattered, so there were eighteen bundles, so high they formed a tower in the cart. Ryoka frowned, and Durene rubbed her eyes. But all the firewood wasn’t falling over because it was sandwiched by entire sacks of…flour…

At this point, even Alevica noticed the oddity and began counting how many sacks of Yellats there were.

“One, two, three, four…that cart can’t fit more than four sacks. There are twenty—”

Her head rose, and she gave Califor a narrow-eyed stare. Then, and only then, did Ryoka and Durene step back and realize…the cart was holding way too much.

Yet if they didn’t pay attention to it…it just looked like a tiny cart! Certainly, the pony seemed to think it was light as could be and was actually pulling it forwards a bit as it waited to go. Nanette herself goggled at the cart as she noticed the improbable dimensions.

A cart that acted like a bag of holding? No, it wasn’t quite the same—Califor cleared her throat meaningfully, and everyone stopped staring to look at her.

“I would appreciate it if you didn’t stare. The cart doesn’t know how much it’s carrying. I should like to keep it that way.”

Keep it that…Ryoka’s mouth fell open, and Witch Califor…winked. Alevica gasped.

“You fit all of that in there? But—you’re not—Oliyaya never talked about that! You didn’t do a ritual or—or—can you do that with sympathy magic?”

“Witch Alevica. We all have our strengths. I prefer not to show off. Nanette, stop staring!”

So saying, Califor mounted up with as many supplies as the ones Durene and Ryoka had just packed. Then, and only then, Ryoka Griffin stared at the grey-haired woman and saw Alevica gasping for words. Nanette’s smug smile—and Mister Prost took off his hat.

“Witch Califor…did you happen to be the woman who ran Yellats the length and breadth of the north after the 2nd Antinium War? She’d have had brown hair, though, like little Nanette, and they never said ‘Witch’.”

Califor paused a moment, looking amused.

“And if I was, Mister Prost? Would it change a single thing?”

She tipped her cap at him, and he bowed slightly. Califor mounted up and nodded to Ryoka, then to Durene. The half-Troll girl hesitated, but Califor met her eyes.

“Capable women must do what we can. That isn’t just the job of [Witches]. I see Riverfarm had an abundance.”

Her eyes took in Durene, Charlay, Ryoka, Wiskeria—and Durene flushed with embarrassment. And a longing for that kind of praise.

Nanette scrambled into her saddle, and Califor was about to ride forwards, and the wind itself blew behind her a second, but Ryoka—had to know. So she called out as Wiskeria’s head turned from their own wagons.

“Miss Califor. Is your cloak magical? Or your—staff?”

Witch Califor turned, almost theatrically, as Nanette’s head swivelled. Every eye fixed on the worn cloak and the riding staff Califor had stowed. It looked like plain, old wood, and the cloak was dusty and worn.

“Oh, this? I bought this cloak at a flea market. A quite good bargain. And the staff was a gift from a [Shaman] I helped once. Think nothing of them. If Nanette has been telling tales—remember, they are just stories.”

Califor lifted one fold of her cloak and touched the walking staff. Ryoka hesitated, clearly disappointed, and Califor began to ride away.

Wiskeria muttered something under her breath. It sounded like an incantation. Durene, about to walk over to the wagons, looked back.

For just one second—she thought she saw the staff grow vibrant and the plain, polished wood change to something leafy and growing, as if it refused to die even when cut from the tree. For a second, the cloak swirled like a moving shadow as Witch Califor turned her head and sighed.

Then she was gone. And Ryoka turned back to her mission of mercy and had to stop and think for a second.

“I—we—well, that’s one area taken care of, it seems. Since we can’t do a cart, I have a bag of holding, and Charlay does too. We’ll run ahead, coordinate who’s coming back if any, and the wood and food can keep going. We’ll run back to resupply.”

She was trying to fix their transportation issue. Durene objected as she considered the final wagon. Califor’s words had motivated her as well.

“Are you sure we can’t get anyone to pull the last wagon, Mister Prost? It’s not that heavily loaded.”

Prost shook his head.

“It’s too heavy, and Beniar needs all his [Riders] mounted. What with the [Bandits].”

“Yeah, but just one donkey? We could even help push it. It’s heavy, but—see?”

The half-Troll girl set herself and pushed. Ryoka, Beniar, and Prost stared as the wagon rolled a bit. They gaped at Durene. Charlay raised two thumbs. Durene smiled at her, and then her eyes widened as she had a thought.

“I have an idea for a horse!”

Ryoka blinked. Then her eyes widened too. She looked over her shoulder. Charlay’s eyes narrowed.

“Who—wait a second. It better not be me. No way. No way—”



—–



Charlay stared as the wagons rolled down the road. She looked at the giant, green, miffed bear and blinked.

“Oh. That’s much better than what I thought you were going to say.”

Ryoka stared at Bismarck. The Mossbear gaoed as it tried to reach the potato on a string in front of him. He padded forwards, growling slightly, and the wagon obligingly rolled after him. Charlay frowned at the harness.

“Can a bear pull a wagon? By himself? Really?”

Ryoka tried to calculate it. It certainly looked like it.

“Well, Bismarck weighs more than one. And he’s like a grizzly and…no, twice…? Three times the size of a black bear? He’s massive. So long as the straps don’t bother him and you can get him to move, I think it’ll work.”

“Leave it to me. If he looks tired, I’ll let you know.”

A voice called from the front of the wagon. Wiskeria tipped her pointed hat and grinned. Ryoka smiled, and Durene nodded. The [Witch] had decided to come with them on their relief-giving mission. And her presence was welcome. Beniar laughed as he rode towards them. He saluted Wiskeria on her wagon.

“General Wiskeria! Your orders, ma’am?”

“Shut up, Beniar. Just ride ahead and make sure there’s no [Bandits]. Move in groups; you don’t want to get picked off. You’ll stay around the wagons with a few [Scouts] going ahead. Ryoka and Charlay will alert the settlements and figure out if we’re delivering aid or getting them to come back with us.”

“Yes, ma’am! You heard her! Darksky Riders, move out!”

Beniar rode forwards with a whoop of excitement, and the [Riders] followed him. Durene couldn’t remember him looking this excited in a while. But maybe it was because Wiskeria was giving the orders. The [Witch] nodded at her and Ryoka. The City Runner peered up at Wiskeria.

“I thought you weren’t being a [General] for a while. What changed your mind?”

“Miss Califor’s always right.”

Ryoka laughed. The wagons set off, and Durene strode with them. On a mission of mercy.



—–



This was how it went. A young woman ran across the grass, waving her arms. In his tower, an [Archer] drew an arrow reflexively, but he untensed when he heard her voice.

“Excuse me! Hey! It’s me! Don’t shoot!”

Ryoka Griffin ran into the settlement as the people came out of their houses. The [Archer] blinked at her.

“You’re back? What is it? Another delivery?”

“No. It’s aid. From Riverfarm. And if you need it—we have an escort waiting to take you back to the village!”

“What? Aid?”

The people were confused. The [Archer] was even outraged.

“Do you think we’re in need of handouts? We can manage ourselves.”

Ryoka faced him seriously.

“It’s not just for you. I toured everywhere from Riverfarm almost up to Filk yesterday. There are burned out houses and people in trouble all the way there. If you don’t need help, we’ll move on. But if you need food, wood, nails—we can deliver it.”

“In exchange for what?”

The suspicious question came from a woman armed with another bow. Ryoka shook her head.

“Nothing. This is a crisis. Look, I’d prefer if you didn’t need anything. That way we can get it to whoever’s in trouble most. But if you need something that you’ll be in trouble without—ask. Otherwise, consider moving to Riverfarm. I came to you all first because I know you’re some of the best-off. We’ll be transporting families and as much as we can back to Riverfarm soon. They’ll be safe there.”

The people exchanged a glance. The [Archer] leaned on his bow thoughtfully.

“And the village will take them in?”

“It took in a lot of people from Lancrel. It can take more. It’s your choice. But we’re doing this because Riverfarm’s in a position to help. And the [Emperor]—no, the people of Riverfarm believe in helping people in need. With a bit of encouragement.”

Ryoka looked around. The [Archer] hesitated. And they conferred. At last, he shook his head.

“We don’t need anything. And we’re safe enough here. Thanks for the offer, Miss Griffin. But we’re fine. With that said—we might come to Riverfarm to trade. And we appreciate the offer. Do you have room on those wagons you mentioned for some bows? We can spare a few, and arrows; we have a stock. If Riverfarm’s in need or if we have a scrape—maybe we can help out.”

He reached out, and Ryoka clasped his hand, smiling. She ran on after taking five bows and arrows.



——



“Riverfarm?”

Farmer Melon’s eyes widened. The wagon rolling towards him halted, and the people poured out to stare at the contents. Wiskeria nodded as she halted. Bismarck chewed on the potato, oblivious to the stares.

“That’s right, sir. Anyone who needs to can come back with us. You’ll be able to work in Riverfarm, and I guarantee you’ll be fed and have a good place to sleep. His Majesty Emperor Godart guarantees it. Otherwise, we’ll spare what we can. To get you as far as you need and get these families sorted. I can’t promise we’ll come by twice.”

“Move to Riverfarm? But what about the others? They’re in Filk!”

Wiskeria raised her voice.

“We’ll get them too. And we can send word. But if anyone’s worried about [Bandits]—anyone in the area—we can accommodate you at Riverfarm!”

Farmer Melon chewed on his beard as he stared at the wagon. It was loaded with enough supplies to keep his and the three other families supplied, even build more rooms. Plant a field. He looked at the others and the uncertainty on their faces. Then at the [Witch]. She was a [Witch]; you could tell by the hat. And at the Mossbear, the half-Troll girl.

“It’s a lot to consider.”

“I know, sir. And I don’t want to rush you. We can stop for half an hour or come back on a return trip. But you must decide quickly. Either way—we do want to help.”

So said the [Witch]. In the end, the families at Melon’s farm had to discuss it. The wives, one husband, two of the oldest children, and Melon and his wife talked it over in conference, arguing, debating options.

But Melon kept remembering the wagon. If Riverfarm could spare that—he looked at his farm, which he’d built himself. But you could rebuild a farm. Grow more melons. He looked towards the burned cottage and grave he’d dug and swore.

“Damn. I’m going to have to pay Helm for that pitchfork after all. Hey! Grab what you can and pack up! We’re moving!”



—–



Ryoka saw the first wagon riding back from Melon’s farm as she jogged down the road. Beniar and a group of eight [Riders] were accompanying them to the delight of the children, who stared at the [Cataphract]. Melon waved at Ryoka as she passed. And he wasn’t the only one.

More and more wagons were coming down the road. Not all the ones Riverfarm had sent either. Over half of the settlements that the relief teams visited decided to pack up and move rather than stay. There was something more to it than just a desire for safety with [Bandits] and in light of the Goblin raids.

It was Laken. His reputation. His name. People had heard there was an [Emperor]. They’d seen the totem poles, seen Beniar and the patrols and heard who’d been fighting the Goblins. And had failed. But Laken had been there when before the Goblins would have rampaged until a local city or noble or adventurers drove them off. So they came.

Ryoka ran. From house to house. Her legs tired. She drank potions. And the wagons rumbled after her. First it was three hours. Then six. Ryoka stopped for a break at the [Fisher]’s hut and found he was packed.

“What’re you doing? I thought you said you were fine here!”

She exclaimed. The old man grinned at her as he hefted his spear.

“Right. But Riverfarm has fish, don’t it? And truth be told, everyone’s leaving, and I think I’ll miss the company. You have room on those wagons for me?”

They did, but Ryoka had to flag one as it came this way. It was the one being led by Wiskeria. Bismarck growled unhappily as the [Witch] halted him. Durene jogged to keep up; she was still going. She’d helped load the wagons, reassure people—Ryoka remembered her bellowing at a frightened group that had shot arrows at Ryoka without letting her come near.

“I know it’s your farm. But it’s not safe out here! Come to Riverfarm and we can come back and gather whatever you need. Bring your valuables, but don’t stay! We can take you in! I swear we’re not [Bandits]! She’s a Runner, and I’m a [Paladin]! Honest!”

Surprisingly, that had worked. Now, Durene smiled as Wiskeria pointed.

“That way?”

“That’s right. Just down the marsh. I’ve got half the guy’s stuff in his bag of holding. We’ll meet you there.”

“Alright. Come on Bismarck. Let’s—aw, no!”

Ryoka heard a thump and a shout from the passengers. Wiskeria looked down, askance. She’d driven right into a pothole. Bismarck growled and strained, but the wagon was heavier, and he gave up, panting. Ryoka swore.

“Damn it. Okay, let’s get everyone off. Beniar’s nearby, maybe he can help—”

“Don’t worry! I’ve got it!”

Durene cheerfully waved a hand. She stepped around to the back and bent down. Ryoka saw the wagon lift, people and cargo and all. Durene growled as she heaved it out of the pothole.

“Bismarck, pull!”

The surprised Mossbear did. Ryoka saw the wagon move down the road out of the pothole. Durene, panting, massaged her back.

“Wow! That was really heavy!”

“You moved—”

“Yup.”

The half-Troll girl grinned at Ryoka. The City Runner closed her mouth. After a moment, she nodded.

“Well then! Onwards!”

That was the third trip back to Riverfarm. The sun was setting fast, and Ryoka found that even the two stamina potions she’d used weren’t helping. She had to heal her bruised feet, but even then, she was yawning as she and Wiskeria escorted the last group of people back towards Riverfarm.

Charlay was dozing as she trotted forwards, and even Bismarck looked worn down as he pulled the wagon. But still, Durene was right behind him. She was pushing the wagon, helping the weary Mossbear. Without complaint. And she’d kept up with the wagons all day. On foot. Now she was doing most of Bismarck’s work.

Just silently pushing it forwards into the night.

Ryoka turned back and smiled. Durene gave her a silent thumbs-up. She looked more relaxed than Ryoka had seen her as well. Perhaps—well, Ryoka wondered if she’d been wrong. Durene had been indecisive. But perhaps Durene really did just need to put her talents to use. To find a challenge worthy of her. Either way, Ryoka smiled as Durene yawned.

The half-Troll girl was tired, despite what Ryoka thought. She was sleepy as she leaned against the wagon, pushing it. So tired in fact that she kept drifting off, accounting for their slow progress back to Riverfarm. They were the last wagon. But they weren’t more than—

Durene yawned. She leaned against the wagon. Just for a second.



[Paladin Level 17!]

[Skill – Iron Skin obtained!]



“Huh?”

She opened her eyes. Ahead of her, Wiskeria, yawning, stood up and peered under her hat’s brim. She had a ball of [Light], and she raised it with one hand.

“Durene? You okay? We’ve stopped moving.”

The half-Troll girl yawned and stood up straighter. She smiled up at Wiskeria and saw the [Witch] smile too.

“I’m awake! Sorry, Wiskeria. I just drifted off. But guess what? I just leveled!”

“You did? That’s gr—”

“[Fast Fireball!]”

Durene heard the voice, but she didn’t understand it at first. Then there was a bright light. Wiskeria spun. She held up a hand—

And the fireball ­exploded, blowing her off the wagon. Durene threw up her hands, and her ears rang. She stumbled backwards as a blast of heat washed over her.

“Wiskeria!”



Night 59 – Ryoka



Ryoka heard the voice. She saw the [Fireball] hit the wagon and explode. The passengers in front disappeared. So did Wiskeria. Bismarck roared as his fur caught fire. He rolled, and pieces of wood rained down from the sky. The City Runner just stared.

“Wiskeria?”

“Ryoka!”

Someone grabbed her. Charlay. The Centauress was pointing. Ryoka turned. She saw another fiery ball of light. Her body moved faster than her mind. She and Charlay ran before the [Fireball] exploded five paces from where they’d been. Ryoka felt the heat.

And out of the night, they came. [Bandits]. They rode down on the City Runners and the destroyed wagons, loosing arrows, and the [Pyromancer] holding the staff shot a stream of flames that nearly cooked Ryoka. The wind saved her; it blew the flames up as Ryoka and Charlay split.

Over the ringing in her ears, Ryoka could hear the [Mage] shouting.

“Get the [Witch]! Get her hat! The hat’s worth gold! Kill the others!”

“Ryoka, run!”

Charlay shouted. There were [Riders] bearing down on her. She turned, wide-eyed, as one lifted a sword. The Centauress bolted left. The [Pyromancer] saw and raised his staff.

“Charlay! Behind you!”

“Gyaaaah! [Spray Hoof]!”

A spray of dirt hit the [Pyromancer]. He swore, and his spell missed. Fire flashed over Charlay’s head as half the [Bandits] went after her. There were—twelve? Not many. But the [Pyromancer]—

Ryoka saw Charlay racing away. She heard the Centauress’ voice.

“[Lightning Gallop]! [Duststorm Kick]!”

She took off. The [Bandits] following her ran into a dust storm. They halted, coughing. And the [Pyromancer] shook his staff.

“Ignore the horse! Get the wagon—”

Something flew at his head. He ducked, and the Tripvine Bag exploded. The vines nearly knocked him from the saddle. He turned, snarling. The caltrop hit him in one eye.

“Durene!”

Ryoka screamed the words over the [Pyromancer]’s howl. She spun. The wind was shrieking. Dust and flying caltrops blew through the air. The [Bandits] riding down on her cursed as their horses reared and screamed.

The Runner screamed back. This could not be happening. Wiskeria! The passengers! Smoke was everywhere, but the front of the wagon was gone. Someone was screaming, caught in the flames. Ryoka couldn’t save them. The [Bandits] were on her.

“Kill the Runner!”

One swung at her. Wind blew him from the saddle. Charlay and Ryoka’s dust clouds were whipping the air, throwing the [Bandits] off. But Ryoka was alone, and there were twelve, the [Pyromancer] and men and women with weapons, riding at her, fighting their horses. Twelve. And Durene was—no, wait. Eleven?

Something moved in the cloud. Ryoka saw a man jerk and fly off his horse. He hit the ground, and Ryoka saw what had knocked him from the saddle.

A quarterstaff. As the man lay winded, the hands holding the quarterstaff withdrew. He sat up, and Durene’s foot came down. The man screamed before Durene stomped. The other [Bandits] looked up.

“Dead gods, what is that?”

They hadn’t seen Durene behind the wagon. The [Pyromancer] turned in alarm and pointed his staff.

“[Fast Fireball]—”

“Durene!”

The half-Troll girl raised her arms. The second explosion engulfed her. Ryoka screamed. No! She ran forwards, saw a woman swinging on her from the right. Ryoka tried to dodge. A blade clipped her back, laying it open. The pain made Ryoka scream, but she ran. The [Bandit] followed her. She raised her sword for another strike—

And someone roared. Ryoka jerked, dodged left. A huge shape crashed into the horse. The animal and rider went down. The [Bandit] turned and saw a huge mouth snapping at her. It was her turn to scream.

It was the last sound she made. Bismarck bit, worried the corpse, tossed it, and turned. The other [Bandits] descending on Ryoka noticed the Mossbear through the dust too late. The Mossbear tore a man from his saddle and dropped on him. The paw hit the man’s chest with a dull crunch.

“It’s a damned bear! I told you!”

“Kill it! Kill it! Mafial!”

“Move clear, you idiots!”

The [Pyromancer] bellowed. He shot a thin stream, and Bismarck roared, flinching away from the fire. The [Pyromancer] lifted his burning staff as the other [Bandits] rode clear.

“[Fireb—]”

A huge hand grabbed his horse. The [Mage] jerked and looked down. Durene howled as she tossed the man from the saddle. The man flew, and Durene swung her staff. A man riding towards her caught the blow. He was wearing chainmail, but the metal did nothing as his ribs snapped. He fell screaming, choking.

Ryoka stared. Durene lifted the staff and swung it, still screaming in pain. She was half-blinded by the [Fireball], but it hadn’t brought her down. In fact—her staff caught another [Rider], and he tumbled.

“Shoot her—”

A bolt hit Durene in the chest. She staggered, and the [Bandit] holding the crossbow lowered it, dumbfounded. The bolt had stuck in Durene’s skin, barely two inches deep. She howled, and the man on the ground raised his shield. He had a shield. Armor. And all she had was a staff.

But it was thick. A walking staff. A quarterstaff. It came down with all of Durene’s strength. The thud as it struck the man’s helmet stayed with Ryoka as she stumbled forwards. She flung a caltrop, called the wind.

The [Pyromancer] was alive. He was winded, but he got up as Ryoka tried to bombard him with grit and caltrops. He snarled, pointing his staff at her as his bloody eye and good one focused on her. Ryoka leapt sideways.

The two faced each other as the [Bandits] circled, fighting Bismarck and Durene. Ryoka grabbed for another Tripvine bag, her caltrops—the [Pyromancer] raised his staff, and she knew she was too close. She tensed—and her eyes widened.

“Wiskeria?”

The [Pyromancer]’s head turned. Someone was walking out of the destroyed wagon’s front. It was…a [Witch].

Ryoka could tell by the hat. But nothing else. Oh, and the wand. Wiskeria stomped and raised it. She was completely naked except for her hat. But she was also unharmed. There wasn’t even soot on her. Ryoka stopped. The [Pyromancer] turned and stared. His eyes bulged.

“What the f—”

“[Fox Fire]. [Icy Shard].”

The first spell tossed blue fire into the [Pyromancer]’s face. He clawed at it, screaming. The shard of ice hit him in the cheek, and he screamed louder. Ryoka leapt forwards and kicked him in the back. Wiskeria drew a knife and jumped on the man as he raised his staff.

The Runner ducked as fire blasted past her. Then she looked up. Wiskeria stabbed the man twice more in the chest. But he was already dead. She stared at Wiskeria. The [Witch] slashed across his throat, stepped back, and exhaled. She was sooty, but she was alive.

“How—”

A shout made Ryoka look up. The [Bandits] were fleeing. Durene was swinging her staff, and there were six bodies around her. Bismarck had killed another. Then Ryoka heard the furious voice.

“Riverfarm! Riverfarm and Laken!”

Beniar and four of his [Riders] thundered forwards. Just in time to catch the last of the fleeing [Bandits]. The [Cataphract] got one himself. He whirled, and Ryoka saw Charlay racing after the last with three [Riders]. Beniar looked around, blinded by the dust, if not the darkness.

“Dead gods! No, no—Wiskeria! Durene! Is anyone—”

He caught sight of Durene, panting and leaning on her staff. Beniar leapt to the ground. And then he saw Ryoka and Wiskeria.

“Wiskeria?”

“I’m fine. Damn it, I knew I shouldn’t have worn the spare clothing Durene gave me. Have we lost anyone?”

Wiskeria sounded exasperated, not shocked. She stood there, as if forgetting she was completely naked, head swivelling to survey the wagons. Ryoka had to give Beniar this: he only stared for a second, and then he turned his head.

“What happened? We were just a minute ahead! We thought they’d never dare attack—”

Ryoka panted.

“They were after Wiskeria. After a [Witch]. Here—anyone got a blanket?”

“The passengers—”

“I pulled one out. The rest didn’t make it.”

Wiskeria shook her head. Ryoka opened her mouth and heard a wail.

“Ryoka! Where are you? Tell me you ran away! You slowpoke! Where are you?”

“Charlay! Over here!”

The Centauress galloped towards Ryoka.

“Ryoka! Thank goodness you’re—Wiskeria? You’re alive? And naked?”

The rest of the Darksky Riders converged. There was a minute—then six—of panic, which resolved itself. The [Trapper] who’d been riding on the wagon was badly burnt, as were Durene and Bismarck.

Wiskeria took care of that. She had potions distributed, made sure the dead [Bandits] were actually dead, and did it all while naked. Only when Beniar offered her a blanket did she cut a hole for her head and wear it like a poncho. Tough as nails. She didn’t even seem to care about the blood of the dead man on her arms and cheeks.

By contrast, Charlay was babbling.

“I’ve never seen anything like it. She was dead. I saw the [Fireball] heading at her, and she couldn’t dodge. Then she takes her hat off and blocks it with her hat! With her hat—! I couldn’t pay for a charm that does that. That’s like a Gold-rank charm right there—”

“How’d you do it, Wis? A spell?”

Beniar stared at Wiskeria. She shook her head, waving said hat as everyone turned to stare at it.

“Nope. It’s my mother’s work. She made this hat; I’ve never tried to block a [Fireball] with it. It might have still cooked me, but I diverted the rest of the blast. I’m only sorry I couldn’t protect anyone else. Or my clothing.”

“Wait, wait, wait. Your mother’s hat tanked a point-blank [Fireball]?”

That wasn’t just insane; Ryoka literally didn’t believe it. However, Wiskeria just shrugged.

“If you don’t believe it, try to cut it up. Beniar, you’ve got a magic sword, right?”

Gingerly, not wanting to hurt her hat, Beniar produced his sword and sawed at the hat. But even when he began using a lot of force…the fabric would deform, then spring back into shape. Ryoka stared as Beniar, to prove his sword was sharp, lopped off a piece of burnt wagon in a single cut. The [Cataphract] handed Wiskeria’s hat back to her and she put it back on, then he burst out.

“Your mother made this? Dead gods, Wis, that’s a Gold-rank artifact, disappearing clothes or not! Do you think she’d sell it to us?”

Beniar’s eyes went round. Wiskeria shrugged, looking uncomfortable.

“I…again, I have robes. Durene got me some new ones because she thought I needed them. Clothes for you? Yes. Maybe. If I asked her to. It never crossed my mind. She doesn’t usually sell stuff like this. But yes—yes, I’ll definitely ask her to.”

“I guess that’s a caring mother to make clothing like that.”

Ryoka spoke slowly. The adrenaline rushing through her body had faded. Now she felt sick at the death. Tired. But amazed. Wiskeria paused and nodded again.

“I suppose that is a sign of caring. I just thought she made it so she didn’t have to worry about patching me up. But…yes. It is extraordinary, isn’t it?”

She seemed almost mystified as she took off her hat and stared at it.

Invincible clothing, or at least, powerful clothing. A mother’s love?Wiskeria looked at her, as if not sure that was what it was. Ryoka stared at her and nodded. She wanted to smile, but the power of that hat…and Wiskeria’s troubled expression that couldn’t even smile in gratitude? It was something. It was familiar to Ryoka.

It reminded her of her mother. Oh, not that her mother could even sew a hole in a shirt; she’d just buy Ryoka a new one. New clothes, new car…was that love? Surely not. But Wiskeria’s expression was the same for a handmade artifact as Ryoka’s for her mother’s absent, lavish affections.

The two girls broke off from their look of connection as Ryoka thought of someone who needed actual concern. The Wind Runner turned.

“Durene?”

The [Paladin] looked up. She’d survived her own [Fireball], albeit at a far greater cost than Wiskeria. If it hadn’t been for her new Skill, she probably would have died. As it was—the healing potion had only healed some of the burns. Durene’s voice was raspy.

“I’m okay, Ryoka.”

“Sure you are. We’re going to get you back to Riverfarm. You got the [Bandits], Durene.”

“Yeah. I wish I could’ve saved the others.”

Ryoka shook her head. She stared at the six [Bandits] Durene had killed. Her hands shook a bit. She’d been trying to kill the [Pyromancer]. But Durene had squashed the others like flies with her quarterstaff. It was still bloody.

“Does it—does it bother you?”

Durene looked confused. She glanced at the bodies and blinked before shaking her head.

“They’re [Bandits]. I don’t feel bad about killing them.”

That was all. Ryoka nodded. Slowly, painfully, she walked back towards Beniar. He was seeing to the wounded [Trapper].

“We’re close to Riverfarm. Damn—this guy needs a [Healer]. I don’t think the burns all healed, and I don’t want to try another. There could be an infection. I’ll ride him back, and you all wait here.”

“We can walk.”

Durene got up. Beniar opened his mouth to protest and saw Bismarck lumber forwards. The bear’s fur along his back was burnt away. And while he was healed, he was growling. His teeth were still bloody. The [Cataphract] nodded.

“I’ll ride back and send everyone in case there are more [Bandits]!”

He took off into the night. The last three [Riders] joined Ryoka and the others. The City Runner walked forwards, then turned to stare at the wagon. It was gone. Some of the goods could be salvaged, but not right now. Charlay looked at Ryoka, then Wiskeria. She sighed.

“Climb on, Wiskeria. I’ll carry you back. Come on, Ryoka. Let’s go.”

Wiskeria blinked, but didn’t object. Charlay trotted past Ryoka. Durene and Bismarck followed, and Ryoka brought up the rear. She kept looking at the place where the first [Fireball] had gone off.

That was true magic. True magic. A hat had done what magic shields might struggle to do! Ryoka began to understand what Belavierr could do. She wanted to talk to the [Witch] again. Thank her. And perhaps her daughter did too. Wiskeria kept pinching herself as Charlay bore her back.

The weary procession returned to Riverfarm quietly. Wondering, but mourning the death and low after the heady adrenaline of battle. Ryoka headed straight into Riverfarm, seeing the lights in a few windows. But the village was mostly dark without magic or electricity.

Ryoka expected a huge crowd that had heard about the battle. And there was one. But it was not for her or Durene or the riders. She stopped as she saw the turned backs. The silent, staring faces.

They were not looking at her. Nor were they making any sound. The people of Riverfarm were quiet. Deathly so. They stood together, so close as to touch. As if to remind themselves they weren’t alone.

They filled the street as the procession halted. Ryoka stepped forwards uncertainly. Wiskeria rode forwards, craning her neck. The street was motionless. The people voiceless.

But it was not quiet. There was a rhythmic sound in the air. Quiet. Then louder. Insistent.

It was a faint, plaintive cry. A wailing sound every person knew. A baby’s cry. Ryoka heard it, but it didn’t connect with the faces around her. The haunted looks.

“What’s…what’s going on?”

No one responded to Charlay’s uneasy question. Wiskeria looked up. Silently, slowly, she slipped off Charlay’s back. The villagers looked back. Saw her. They parted. Ryoka saw Wiskeria move forwards. And the young woman felt a sense of trepidation.

They stood in the center of the gathering. Four [Witches]. Hedag. Eloise. Alevica. Mavika. No Califor or Nanette. Watching silently.

Hedag’s expression was a mirthless smile, harsh and pained. Eloise had closed her eyes. Alevica was pale-faced with fear. As close to fear as Ryoka had ever seen. And Mavika? The [Witch] looked at Wiskeria and Ryoka. And she nodded.

Closer still. Ryoka pushed forwards with Wiskeria. Prost and Rie stood in the inner circle. Their faces were white. They had lost their voices too. They turned as Wiskeria moved forwards towards the center. The crying was louder, insistent. There was a voice now. Someone whispering. Cooing sweetly. Trying to soothe the baby she held—

Ryoka saw Rehanna in the center of the silent crowd, and for a moment, she felt relieved. Because there was nothing wrong. The woman was sitting on the ground, rocking an infant in her arms. It was a normal scene. Ordinary.

For a moment, Ryoka could believe it. Then she looked up at the tall figure standing like a shadow behind Rehanna. As tall as a nightmare, her hat wide, pointed. And her eyes, the rings of orange glowing in the twilight. The illusion broke as Ryoka saw what Belavierr had done.

“Hush, my child, don’t make a sound. Your mother’s here, and treats abound…”

Rehanna sang as she held the child to her breast. The infant wailed, and Ryoka saw it at last. It was right in all the right ways. It was the same size. It had the same color. And it made sound. It moved. It looked like an infant.

But it was not. It was not alive. It was no baby. The thing wriggled, writhed, opened its mouth and exposed black insides.

It opened its eyes and raised a hand. Ryoka saw stitched cloth waving. Or was it flesh? Moving fingers, wriggling.

A mockery of life. A thing. It was not alive. But Rehanna bent her head, and a tiny cloth hand clasped her finger.

“Yes, little one, go to sleep. Don’t wake or cry or you’ll make your mother weep…”

She sang to it. Ryoka couldn’t take her eyes off the thing Rehanna held. It was all wrong. It was too close to reality. The cloth had been sewn, given magic. But it was no baby. But its eyes. Ryoka saw no life there, but it was realer than any mannequin. She tasted bile. Ahead of her, Wiskeria was frozen. She stared at the woman, her face drained of color.

“Rehanna?”

“Wiskeria?”

The woman looked up. She spotted Wiskeria and stood. Her face beamed with happiness. She stumbled towards Wiskeria, holding the thing proudly. But carefully as any mother.

“Wiskeria! She did it! I didn’t believe her, but she did it! Your mother, Lady Belavierr! Look. Look! She brought him back. See?”

She held out the not-child, and Wiskeria recoiled. Rehanna stopped, hurt.

“What’s wrong? He’s as healthy as can be. Look—touch him. Don’t cry, little one—”

Another wail. Ryoka stared at Rehanna. She had seen the woman once, lying on the ground, clutching at her ruined hand. Rehanna was not the same woman as then.

Her hair was faded. Her hands pale. But she was smiling. Laughing with tears in her eyes as she turned to Wiskeria. The young [Witch] was shaking.

“She brought my baby back. He won’t ever leave. He won’t die. She brought him back.”

Wiskeria looked up slowly. Rehanna laughed and turned, gesturing to the tall figure. And the orange eyes found Wiskeria.

Belavierr walked forwards, and the world drew back. Rehanna returned to rocking her child, soothing it. And the thing’s voice faded as Belavierr stepped towards her daughter. She stopped there and stooped. Wiskeria looked up at her mother. Ryoka saw her eyes.

They were the eyes of a daughter who had seen who her mother truly was. Belavierr looked into Wiskeria’s eyes. After a moment, the Stitch Witch smiled. Awkwardly. Perhaps even tenderly. She looked Wiskeria up and down and then glanced at Ryoka. She paused, seemed to think, and then spoke.

“Daughter. Did you have a good journey? You appear to be naked.”

Wiskeria did not reply. In the silence of that dark night, as Ryoka looked upon another piece of true magic, the only sound came from a woman. A broken woman. Bereaved. Torn by grief and loss. Perhaps a cruel woman. Spiteful. But broken. And now—mended. With thread. Holding something that sounded and looked like a child.

Rehanna rocked it, standing in the street. She was overjoyed. She smiled and laughed. Oblivious to the world. Holding her baby.

Lost.



—–



A dark dream walked Riverfarm. But elsewhere, the world turned on, unaware of the ways where nightmares and waking merged. Other concerns kept people’s hearts. Even if the hearts were cold.

Fierre, the Vampire who acted as a broker to Runners in Reizmelt, was standing in a place few people knew of. It was a spot where people whose faces were wanted—or anyone who needed to send a [Message] in private—could hire a [Mage]. She spoke curtly, her sharp nails digging into her palms.

“Tell him that if he so much as breathes word she’s there, I will come down to Filk myself and rip out his throat. You hear me?”

The [Mage] shuddered. He thought he knew Fierre. But he had never seen the look in her eyes. He nodded, relaying the [Message]. Fierre stared down at the parchment she held. It held a [Message], or rather, a report she’d obtained for Ryoka. The [Broker] in Filk had one too. And he knew where the [Witches] were. But that wasn’t the problem.

“Leave a [Message] for Ryoka at Filk’s Runner’s Guild. Mark it as priority. I’ll pay you. Got it?”

She was too panicked to care. The rattled [Mage] sent the [Message], and Fierre stormed out of the room. She hesitated after she slammed the door, but there was nothing more she could do. Short of trying to run to Filk herself. And it was too late for that. All she could do was lean on the man in Filk. And pray Ryoka ran for it as soon as she got the [Message].

Fierre hurried back to The Huntress’ Haven, her home away from home. Madain looked up from his usually empty inn and grinned.

“You sort out that thing with Ryoka yet? Where is that idiot Runner?”

“In Riverfarm.”

“Where the hell’s that?”

Fierre was too rattled to respond. She only pulled out the report.

“I got this—”

Madain’s eyebrows rose. He knew of her profession, of course. Anyone who wanted to could find out. He sauntered over carelessly.

“Got herself into some trouble, has she? What’s that, then? Hey! [Fist Fighter], look at this.”

Alber looked up from his cold meal. He thought about it, then got up. Fierre held out the parchment shakily.

“It’s someone in Riverfarm. A [Witch]. Ryoka wanted to find her record. This is it.”

“Ooh. A criminal? Scary. You know, I have a bounty.”

“Not like this one.”

Fierre promised Madain. The former adventurer laughed contemptuously.

“Hah! How bad could it be? What’s Ryoka gotten herself tangled up—oh.”

His laughter cut off abruptly. Alber frowned as he came over to see. He looked at Fierre and then peered over Madain’s shoulder. His eyes widened. Fierre slowly took the parchment back from Madain. He stared at her along with Alber.

“Is that real?”

“Oh yes.”

It hadn’t even been hard to get. It was, after all, a public record. If she knew—Fierre didn’t know how Ryoka had met the [Witch], and she didn’t care. She just wanted Ryoka to run. Before it was too late.

“The Stitch Witch, Belavierr. Wanted in Terandria. Currently being pursued by the Guild of Hunters and the Order of Seasons. Believed to be in Izril. Current bounty…eighteen thousand total gold pieces. In Terandria. Twenty thousand pieces. From the Slavers of Roshal. Three thousand gold by Wistram…”

Murder. Kidnapping. Torture. Injury of a royal. Unlawful use of dark magic. Theft. Murder of a child. Extortion. Murder of a [Knight]. Murder of a [Guardsman]. Destruction of a city. Mass murder. Mutilation. Murder of a [Prince]. Freeing imprisoned slaves. Murder of a [Slaver]. Murder of a [Mage]. Seduction of a [Prince] (unconfirmed). Destruction of a village (unconfirmed) and mass murder via hanging. Summoning of an Old One; mass deaths by Old One. Creation of monsters. Bribery—

The list of crimes ran on and on.





Interlude – Two Rats


(The Wandering Inn’s audiobook is available for preorder here! It comes out September 10th!)



Tell of it to those who would marvel at tragedy, their fates. Those who would understand mercy and rage and the redemption of sin. Of honor, of family, and all things which are worthy—tell their story.

Not of the [Innkeeper], who had by now created an inn whose fame spread for hundreds of miles, who had come from another world and endured death and seized triumph by kindness and friendship. And yes, whose inn yet endured despite destruction and the threat of war.

For to understand her, to understand the [Princess] far from home or the last child of the Stone Spears tribe, the fate of the Minotaur who had betrayed both his team and honor in madness and the darkness of below, think only of their story:

That of two rats who crawl across the ground. The two rats as fair as snow and as grey as slate, the pair alone. Let dead gods and fallen nations lie. For on a day when the wind blew cool and the smell of spring lay fragrant upon the earth, in an inn, known to some as The Wandering Inn, the two rats began their story.

They had been born and lived in the darkness. And it was the darkness they called home. Dark, but not absolute. By the sounds above them and the cracks of light in the ceiling of their world they lived, in fear, in debauchery, in plenty—for there was always food—and sometimes, yes, in competition with other rats. But the pair were brother and sister, and perhaps it was that which kept them from gnawing on each other as prey.

So sing of the rats. And do not weep for tales untold, of the Necromancer who plotted and made monsters out of flesh and bone and the ichor of legends. Nor weep for the fate of a [King] or a land imperiled by darkness, Rhir, the cursed, blighted lands. Such tales would be told, and yet, it was two rats who deserved the songs of muses this day.

For they were rats! The passing of [Kings] meant nothing to them. Yet, would they call their fates any less than a Human [Emperor], a sovereign Selphid ruler of old? No! They were rats, and their quest to find something to nibble on matched that of a Dragon’s fate.

They scurried across the floor, sniffing. They searched for food, although food was to be had in plenty. But a rat, in the way [Philosophers] and [Sages] were never content with the limits of their knowledge, continually searched for more food.

Perhaps it was a longer plan, an understanding of the tenuous game of life and death that was the fate of all animals and people that drove them to this; a planning against the future that was the basis of conscious thought. Maybe they were just tired of eating grains. Either way, they searched.

One was white. The other grey. They bumped into each other and squeaked quietly. One, the white, twitched his whiskers at his sister, the grey. She vaguely moved to one side. They sniffed at each other. Then they went back to the bag.

The fount of life sprang forth there. Accordingly, the numbers of the rats had multiplied once, then again and again! With each generation swelling, and so they endured. The chosen rats of the dark place, who were surely blessed above all other rodents. They swarmed the bag, nibbling at the coarse exterior, fighting for the fat grains that spilled forth. The two rats joined the conflagration and ate. And then they were full and so wandered off to rest.

This was the tale of two rats. They dozed, full to bursting with food. In time, perhaps they would seek a mate; they were young, even for rats. Perhaps they might consummate their lineage with incest in full tradition of Grecian tragedy. Or maybe they would seek mates further flung; the People of the Grain Sack were descended of only a few rats, so it was all frankly somewhat incestuous.

But such was fate. Either way, the two rats slept, growing fatter. When they woke, they might excrete or eat again. Or—search once more for another tantalizing morsel in the darkness. That was their existence.

…And that was about it.



—–



Enough of rats! In her inn, a young Gnoll with white fur awoke. She yawned, stretched, and smiled. Her name was Mrsha, and she was very happy with herself. She woke from her nap and rolled over. On her back, she stared up at her paws.

She’d done it. She’d leveled up again. She was the best, most clever Gnoll child in the world. For who could match her? The Gnoll sat up and remembered.

Level 4 [Druid]. That was right. She was level four. And she was only…Mrsha had to count. Six. Or was it seven? Plains Gnolls didn’t generally count birthdays by exact dates, only the passing of years by the winter. By that standard, Mrsha had already become seven, but she decided she was still six. Because Erin had promised she’d have a party on her birthday. With cake.

The thought of cake made Mrsha’s tail wag. But since it was already wagging, that only amplified the motion. Because she’d done more than just level! Or rather, there had been a reason for her to reach Level 4.

She’d learned a spell. A whole new spell. It had been very hard work, and Mrsha had learned it just this morning. It hadn’t been from the special spellbook Krshia let her read when she visited the [Shopkeeper]’s house. Oh no. It had been from her special teacher.

Mrsha looked around for him. Normally, he was easy to spot, but Moore must have moved while she took a little nap in the sun of one window. Mrsha got up and sniffed. Where was he?

In the outhouse. Of course. Mrsha’s nose was as sensitive as they came. Her ears too. She was a Plains Gnoll after all, and she could track a rabbit through the grass with her eyes closed. Moore, by contrast, was easy. She raced over to the door, hearing heavy footsteps outside. When the door opened, there he was.

“Oh, hello, Mrsha. Did you have a good nap?”

The half-Giant blinked down at Mrsha as he came in from outside. His hands were still wet from washing in the trough Erin had installed with complimentary (mandatory) soap outside. Mrsha waved excitedly up at him and then did something new. She put her paws over her mouth and then spread them wide with a huge smile.

It was a special word. A sign, a language Mrsha was developing on her own that her special people knew. Erin, Lyonette, Numbtongue, and Moore as well as a handful of others. The gesture Mrsha had used was a special hello for when she was happy. It meant ‘I love you, hello!’

And Moore knew it. The half-Giant’s face lit up. He bent, his huge expression beaming with the pleasure of Mrsha’s compliment. She smiled too, because Moore was one of her special people. He was big, strong, nice—he always gave her bits of his food—and he had saved her from the Raskghar. He could be scary. But never to her.

“Thank you for the lovely greeting, Mrsha. But what’s made you so happy? Your nap? If only everyone could do that. Seborn, for instance.”

The half-Giant chuckled. He blinked as someone coughed behind him.

“Excuse me.”

“Oh, pardon me.”

Moore and Mrsha realized he was still standing in the door to the inn. Embarrassed, Moore shuffled to one side, and a Drake walked past him, sighing. Moore flushed and carefully motioned Mrsha to walk back inside. She stared with narrowed eyes at the Drake and then sighed. Silently.

She followed Moore back towards his table, which she’d been napping on. And as she did, she navigated around a pair of Dullahans standing and discussing politics, a Garuda (not Bevussa) heading for the outhouses, tables full of guests, Ishkr making the rounds with a platter full of drinks, and a spilled puddle of ale.

The inn was still full. Since it was her inn—or rather, she thought of it as her inn, her place—Mrsha was a bit aggrieved by it all. It had been fun the last few days, but now it was almost claustrophobic.

Guests from Liscor and Pallass circulated the tables, talking, chatting, watching a play in the background—all while the staff tended to them, exchanging alcohol and food for money. Which was all very well and good, but it got in Mrsha’s way. And the noise had been really hard to get to sleep in. Mrsha had had to come up with her own solution to that. Which was…

“Now what’s this?”

Moore exclaimed on reaching the table. He stared at a patch of magical grass blooming from the wood. Mrsha leapt up, put her head back in the soft grass, and felt some of the ambient noise die out. She’d conjured it herself. With her magic. Because yes, Mrsha was a [Mage]. Or [Druid], rather. She was magical.

“Well, that’s something. But Mrsha, you shouldn’t do that to Erin’s tables.”

The half-Giant gently scolded Mrsha. She exhaled through her nose dismissively. It was just magical grass! It would disappear soon. And it was soft and made a nice pillow. She looked up at Moore, and the half-Giant couldn’t find it in his heart to lecture her. He sat down in one of the extra-large chairs Erin had bought just for people like him (and Maughin) and sighed.

“Ah. I’m getting a bit spoiled staying here. Not that I mind, you understand? I think we deserve it after the dungeon, and it’s hardly expensive staying here! But Seborn wants to get on the road, and Jelaqua’s, um, involved with Maughin. But it will be hard going back to the road or sleeping in a barn after this.”

He sighed, and Mrsha sniffed sadly. She didn’t want him to go. He’d left once, and that had been dreadfully sad. The half-Giant avoided her gaze.

“I have to, Mrsha. In time. Not today, of course. And I promise I’ll be back. Now, er, what had you so excited?”

He looked at her. Mrsha looked up, excited again. That was right! Her new spell and her level! She had to tell Moore. Only—she paused. This would be tricky.

This was what Mrsha did. She waved for Moore’s attention, then solemnly put her paw on her chest. Then she raised one paw while the other pointed a furry finger at her head. And she pointed with two paws to the side—one flat, the other sideways as if gesturing to something—and ended it with one finger moving in a circle from the bottom to top and ending with a flick. Moore stared at her blankly.

The entire message was: I-level-because-spell. Each series of gestures had their meaning, and Mrsha had worked very hard to make her own words! Unfortunately…Moore hadn’t been around when she’d labored over them with Erin and Lyonette gently helping and encouraging. His forehead wrinkled.

“I…something…something…something? I’m sorry, Mrsha. Can you explain to me?”

Mrsha sighed again. But she patiently reenacted each part. The worst was ‘because’, the two paws pointing like an explanation. Moore couldn’t get that. Or the first part.

“You’re pointing at your head. You think? You…raising something. You want to raise something? You want me to lift something up. No?”

He looked apologetic as Mrsha lost patience and switched to the last bit. The finger swishing was shorthand for ‘spell’. But Moore eventually got it when Mrsha pulled out her wand and performed the same motion.

“Oh! You learnt the spell! Yes, you did. You’re very smart, Mrsha. A genius!”

He beamed and patted Mrsha gently on the head, his hand very, very light. Mrsha sighed a last time. Close enough. She nodded, and Moore beamed.

“Can you show me again? Just like I taught you. Focus…”

Mrsha ignored the rest because she’d already learned the spell. It was so much easier than trying to learn from Krshia’s spellbook. Maybe it was because Moore was a [Green Mage] himself, but she’d copied his spell after only two days of teaching! And without getting nosebleeds or headaches that made Krshia ban Mrsha from reading from the book. Now Mrsha concentrated, remembering what Moore had shown her. She raised her paw—

And a huge thorn sprouted from the pad on her paw. Moore applauded, and Mrsha beamed, sweating with success.

“Well done, Mrsha! [Thorn Hand]! Or rather, [Thorn Paw] for you! That’s exactly right. Can you grow another?”

Mrsha did after a moment of concentration. Now two pointy thorns protruded from her paw, one from her palm, the other from the back of her paw. It was ungainly and a bit heavy; she poked a thorn into the table experimentally. The wood of the table gave as the thorn gouged a bit into it. Moore nodded as Mrsha touched the thorn and found it wasn’t sharp—to her.

“That’s right. You made the thorns like I showed you, so they won’t cut you. That’s an important lesson for [Green Mages]. And [Druids]. That’s why I taught you it first.”

He winked conspiratorially as he whispered Mrsha’s class. She beamed up at him. It was important! The thorn was just dull and hard, but when she waved her paw—Moore leaned back hurriedly.

“Careful, Mrsha! I told you, you must be very careful with that. You can cut someone badly with those thorns. Remember your promise?”

He looked as stern as he ever did with her. Mrsha nodded solemnly. The half-Giant nodded slowly. Then his face turned a bit despondent. He reached for his mug of fresh cow’s milk and drank what would be the equivalent of an entire cup for Mrsha in a single gulp.

“I don’t know if it’s wise to teach you a combat spell. But this is the kind of reality we face. And you’ve seen worse. But promise me you’ll be careful.”

Mrsha nodded again. Moore exhaled and smiled. He wiped at his mouth.

“I know you will be. And remember, that spell is a gateway to grander spells. It’s technically Tier 0, but much harder than [Grow Grass]. In time, you can cast [Thorny Fist] or even [Armor of Thorns]. [Barrier of Thorns]. [Thorn Spray]…you’ve seen me use those spells, right?”

The little Gnoll nodded eagerly, her eyes shining. She’d seen the Halfseekers covered by the [Armor of Thorns] spell. Moore saw her signal for a story: opening her paws like a book, and he smiled.

“A story? Oh, about the spells? You want to know how they’re used? Well, you saw my [Mass Armor of Thorns] spell, didn’t you? Jelaqua and Seborn and I get covered by them. They don’t restrict movement much if I use them, and they cut anything we run into. It’s good extra armor; we used it one time fighting Ogres and—”

“Moore! Hey, Moore! Get over here!”

The half-Giant cut off as a voice interrupted him. He looked up, and Mrsha saw a pale hand waving. There sat Jelaqua, who changed bodies like other people changed clothes. A Human woman today, waving from her seat next to a Dullahan as large as Moore. A Drowned Man sat at the table, his arms folded, looking characteristically grumpy.

Moore hesitated and broke off from his tale. He glanced at Mrsha and sighed.

“Coming, Jelaqua! Sorry, Mrsha. She wants me to talk with Maughin. I’ll tell you the story later, alright? Why don’t you come with me?”

He beckoned, smiling. Mrsha hesitated and peered at Jelaqua and Maughin. Her eyes narrowed. They were sitting next to each other, and Jelaqua was leaning down to smile at the Dullahan’s head resting on the table. They smelled of sex and looked like any young Gnoll couple back in the Stone Spears tribe.

Mrsha was, after all, a Gnoll, and not many things were secret when you lived in a small tribe with ears better than most dogs. She got the same vibe from Jelaqua and Maughin. They were going to be like young Gnoll couples. The kind that no one liked in a tribe, who had to use the furthest-away tents because they were so noisy at night. And who constantly looked at each other and never played with Mrsha. She turned up her nose, and Moore sighed.

“No? I’d like it.”

Even then. Mrsha turned her head and waved her paws, shooing Moore away. He got up with a groan.

“I don’t blame you. Coming, Jelaqua! Don’t throw things! Stupid lovesick couples…”

He took on a bit of Seborn’s grumpiness as he left Mrsha by herself. A bit put out, despite having made what she considered the wise decision, Mrsha grumpily yanked up her magical grass and watched it begin to dissipate. She looked around the crowded inn.

Normally, she’d enjoy such a sight. But sometimes, yes, sometimes, Mrsha liked the quiet of the inn. Because that meant Drassi had time to play with her, or Ishkr would let her help in the kitchen. She could roam from table to table in the huge [Grand Theatre], play tag with Apista. It also meant Erin and Lyonette had time for her.

Numbtongue too. He was nice. Even if the other Goblin, the one named Pyrite, was in him too. But Numbtongue, like Mrsha, didn’t like the crowded inn, so he was in Celum with Octavia. Mrsha would have gone with them, but she was banned from the [Alchemist]’s shop. As if she’d knock over potions by accident! Mrsha just wanted to learn alchemy. But no…

Grumpily, Mrsha crawled off the table and slunk to the floor. It was immediately occupied by a pair of Dullahans. They stared at her as they removed their heads. She stared up at them and walked on all fours.

This was no good. No, not at all. Too crowded! As she thought that, Mrsha glanced up and saw the sun shining through some of the windows. Look at that. It was a lovely spring day, and Mrsha could smell the outdoors each time someone went outside. She glanced at the bright skies and came to an immediate decision.

It was time to go outside. Yes! Of course! Why hadn’t she thought of that? It was far too nice to stay indoors any longer. And Mrsha, no, Mrsha the Adventurer knew exactly what she could do outside.

Memory stirred. And Mrsha, Mrsha the Brave, recalled another time when she’d gone outdoors. There had been trials then. Trials and tribulations when she got back and was punished. But it had been an adventure. The best kind. She had been a hero. She had gone out with her trusty companion, Apista, and defeated Crelers. With her allies.

The wind blew. Inside, Mrsha jumped up onto another empty table and stared out the window. Her blood began to boil—metaphorically—as she recalled those glory days.

Once, Crelers had threatened the land guarded by Mrsha the Wise and Magnificent. They had made an incursion into a cave. Laid waste to the lands. Killed the inhabitants and thrown the realm into peril while evil Poo Slimes had terrorized innocent Healing Slimes. Against those odds, who could triumph?

Mrsha. But it had not been just Mrsha. A brave alliance, a desperate fellowship had been formed. Mrsha, Apista, the Healing Slime, and the doughty Fortress Beavers of the cave had teamed up with the ambivalently evil Shield Spiders of the pits to drive the Crelers back. What had become of them? Mrsha stared out a window, ignoring a Garuda asking if she could move.

How had the truce between Fortress Beavers and Shield Spiders fared? Had the brave and glorious defenders kept their ancient, desperate alliance or fallen into treachery and decay over the past…months of peace? Yes, perhaps they had. For the memories of spiders and beavers were short. The Guardians of the Cave, as they were surely known, may have forsaken their charge, passed into complacency and forgotten the lessons of old.

But Mrsha the Great and Terrible had been there. Mrsha the White with her wand of magic. And if evil threatened, surely it was up to her to rally the species. Slime, beaver, and spider. So Mrsha turned. Excited, filled with the call to adventure, she leapt off the table where the Garuda was sitting, staring at her.

The Gnoll cub padded towards the door. As she did, she waved to Apista. Her sworn companion and defender! The Ashfire Bee flapped one wing.

She didn’t move, hopped up on Faerie Flowers. Mrsha glared. Reluctantly, Apista abandoned the flower boxes and flew over and landed on Mrsha’s head.

That was better. Mrsha the Tamer of Bees reached for her wand and proudly removed it from the secret holster on her side. She waved it over her head and thought about her new spell. Yes, it was time for an adventure! She was not the [Mage] she used to be, but a powerful [Druid]. One ready to face an even greater threat! Like Rock Crabs?

…Okay, not Rock Crabs. Mrsha the Prudent walked unsteadily towards the door on two feet as a Drake opened it, adjusting his trousers. Then she gave up and put the wand in her mouth and bounded forwards. The sun-filled Floodplains called to her. It was time for the second adventure of Mrsha the Brave and Glorio—

“Oh no you don’t, young Miss!”

A pair of clawed hands snatched Mrsha. Alarmed, she twisted and saw a foe! Drassi! Drassi the Talkative! The [Barmaid] and [Gossip] frowned at Mrsha, looking uncharacteristically strict.

“Where do you think you’re going?”

Mrsha squirmed, trying to wriggle free. She couldn’t be held here! Adventures called! She went limp, but Drassi, growling, managed to secure Mrsha. She swatted at Apista as the bee lazily flew around her head.

“Mrsha! Don’t be uncooperative! You know you’re not allowed outside without a minder. Remember the Raskghar? The Creler eggs? No way.”

Flee! Mrsha pushed at the hands. Drassi nearly lost Mrsha, but she was too strong! And then she turned, and Mrsha heard her call out.

“Excuse me, Lyonette!”

Uh oh. Mrsha went still. She looked up innocently as a fair, red-headed girl turned. Lyonette spotted Drassi holding Mrsha back from the open doorway and made a beeline towards them. Mrsha gave the [Princess] her most loving smile. Lyonette frowned and looked at Drassi.

“What’s Mrsha done this time?”

“She tried to leave the inn. Unsupervised. I don’t want to put her down or she’ll bolt for it.”

Both Drake and Human turned a severe eye towards Mrsha. The Gnoll cub immediately changed plans. She looked up as Drassi let her down and sat. She turned her back towards the invitingly open door and looked up innocently. Lyonette folded her arms.

“I see. Well, it seems like someone’s in need of some lessons. I had them planned for this evening, but I can take a break. Drassi, let Erin know I’m taking over.”

“I can’t. She’s in Liscor with Krshia! The debates are still happening, remember?”

“Of course. Well—Drassi, take over and give me a short break. I’m going to have a word with Mrsha here.”

So saying, Lyonette carried Mrsha upstairs. The Gnoll child wriggled until she was in Lyonette’s room. Then the [Princess] put her down and placed her hands on her hips. Mrsha sighed as she looked up.

“I know you want to go out, Mrsha. But you promised to stay here. Don’t you recall?”

Mrsha avoided Lyonette’s gaze. Well, yes, she did recall that promise in a vague sense. But she’d made that ages ago! And today was so nice…she would’ve just gone a little bit away. A mile at most. Maybe two.

The [Princess] sighed, seeing Mrsha turn her head somewhat sulkily.

“Mrsha, the inn’s been busy. I’m sorry about that, but we’ve been making lots of money. And we’ll put it to good use! You’ve seen my designs for the new inn, right? And the Antinium at work?”

The Gnoll nodded reluctantly. Lyonette nodded.

“Well then, it won’t be forever. I’m sure it’ll die down soon; we’re already getting fewer crowds over on Pallass’ side. Can you be a good girl and wait? Inside? Without causing as much trouble as Erin?”

Mrsha considered it. She could. But…she was bored! She signaled that to Lyonette. The [Princess] frowned.

“I…am…oh, Mrsha, I know you’re bored. And I promise, we’ll have some fun tonight! We can even skip the lessons today. Alright? Why don’t you sit with…Moore? Or watch a play?”

But she’d seen all of them. Mrsha grumpily folded her arms and looked at her paws. She felt like she was back with the Stone Spears tribe. Only, there’d been other Gnolls there. And Urksh always had something useful for her to do. Here, Mrsha wasn’t allowed to roam. Or even go to the city! She pointed that out—by pointing out Lyonette’s window. The [Princess] nodded.

“I know, you can’t go to the city either. Because of the crowds and Krshia being busy. But in a few days, this election nonsense will be over! And then—”

She frowned as Mrsha swiveled the entire way around to stare at the wall. A few days? That was forever. Lyonette sighed, raked at her sweaty hair with her hands, and groaned as she heard something crash downstairs.

“Mrsha, I’m so sorry. But you can sit with anyone inside—or if you promise, you can go outside and only watch Ceria being boiled.”

Mrsha sniffed disparagingly. Listening to Ceria scream insults as her team boiled her in her tub was only interesting for the first twenty minutes. Lyonette didn’t understand. Mrsha had to run about! She didn’t get it because she was old. Because she had red hair. Because she was a [Princess]. Because she was Human?

But of course, Mrsha couldn’t convey any of that yet. All she could do was look fed up and fold her arms. Which she did. Lyonette sighed.

“Okay, okay. How about this? You stay inside, and if you don’t cause any trouble, we’ll go into Liscor tomorrow and buy you a new toy. How about it? I’ll ask Erin to manage the inn, and we can go for a walk in Celum. Or even outside the city!”

Mrsha perked up. That did sound nice! She nodded, and Lyonette stuck out her hand and extended a pinkie.

“Promise?”

Mrsha lacked the length of her fingers and a Human’s dexterity, but she managed to do the pinkie promise that Erin had taught the two in the end. She looked up at Lyonette, still a bit woebegone, and the [Princess] had to hug her.

“I know, sweetie. But I’ll hire more staff. And—and like I said, this inn’s going to change! I’ll make sure of that. And I promise you, you’ll get to go outside! I just need to get some things from Zevara. If I had my family’s cloak, I’d be happier with letting you roam close to the inn. Just be good today, alright? Someday soon…”

She paused, her voice trailing off. Lyonette stared at Mrsha, then turned to look out the window.

“Someday. Someday…”

She didn’t complete the sentence. Lyonette only blinked when Mrsha jumped into her lap. She yelped and scolded Mrsha, but gently. And Mrsha occupied her so Lyonette wouldn’t be lost in thought again. Or say that word.

Someday. The word scared Mrsha more than any dreams of Raskghar or monsters or even Goblin Lords. Because it lay ahead. Because one of the great secrets Mrsha had been told was that Lyonette was a [Princess]. A true [Princess] of a kingdom far, far away. And she did not belong in this inn.

Someday, she would leave. Just like Ryoka. Even though Lyonette was better than a real mother. But she was a [Princess]. Mrsha didn’t want to think of that. So she let Lyonette scoop her up and hug her tight.

“You are my sweetest little Mrsha. Yes, you are. And I’ll never let you go. Now, be good and find something to do, okay? If you want, I’ll get you something nice to eat. Like a little salad?”

Those were just leaves. Mrsha wrinkled her nose. Lyonette let her down, chuckling, and Mrsha reluctantly went downstairs. She had promised, so she kept her word, even though she cast three longing glances at the door. Lyonette was keeping an eye on her, though, even as she supervised an accident involving a bunch of broken tankards at the bar.

Eventually, she stopped watching, and Mrsha wandered around the room. Moore was there. And Jelaqua and Seborn and the big Dullahan named Maughin. So were some Gnolls that Mrsha knew. Among them was Raekea the [Armorer], taking a break from arguing in Liscor.

Mrsha wished Xif were here; maybe she could sell him more fur! Or—or he could show her how to make a potion. She was just debating going over to Seborn and seeing if she could steal a dagger from the sheath at his side when she heard it.

A tiny squeak amid all the noise. Mrsha’s eyes went round. Then she smiled in delight.



—–



The light shone down, breaking up the world of the People of the Grain Sack. It was a harsh light, unfamiliar in the darkness. And the people fled, fearing the noise and light from above. But the two rats, white and grey, were yet new to the world. In their incaution, they wandered closer to that bright place and the tantalizing smells from above.

It sealed their doom. For no sooner did they scurry forwards, brother and sister, then a harbinger of the end fell from above. Down she came, leaping down the cliffs of wood. And the two froze and then fled.

Alas. They had paused too long. Moved too slowly. In a single bound, she was on them, and they turned, squeaking in alarm. For pity. For salvation. But the People of the Grain Sack, the rats, were cowardly and hid. And the two were lifted up, up, and caught in a paw almost as large as they were. They wriggled, trying to break free, but a vise stronger than steel surrounded them, carried them away through the air.

Oh, what cruel fate! What tyranny! The rats wriggled and squeaked, expecting their demise at the paws of the white-furred titan, the giant monster. They bared their teeth in defiance before their descent into hell—



—–



Mrsha plonked the rats on the ground and happily pinned one with a foot as she inspected the other, holding it up by the tail. They squeaked and wriggled, and she grinned. Look what she’d found! She glanced about and saw more scurrying. But since she only had two paws, Mrsha decided these two were enough.

They were lovely rats. Young, but fat and very active! Her eyes lit up as she shook them and saw them try to scamper away despite being pressed down. Now this was entertainment! She loosened her grip, and one of the rats, the grey, shot away. Mrsha leapt after her and nearly dropped the other.

Whoops! They were quick! And Mrsha was well aware that, if they ran, they’d probably disappear. She considered the problem, and then her eyes lit up as she remembered something from her old tribe. It didn’t hurt to remember them as much. And this was something she’d used to…Mrsha bent over her captured prizes, and they writhed and protested as she grabbed their tails.



—–



It was a small knot. But it was all that was needed. As soon as the titan let go, the two rats felt and saw what had happened. Where one’s tail ended, the other began. A knot captured the two. Yet, in that same instant, the constraining paws let go! They could flee!

But hubris and the mortal tale of self-interest was the truer captor. The two rats fled—in opposite directions. And they both felt the sting, the pulling pain, and stopped. They were trapped by their own tails. Trapped by each other! They turned, snarling. How quickly did the bonds of siblings fall away? And the giant scooped them up.

What savage playacting at godhood. What contempt for mortal foibles! The two rats looked up and realized they were bound. Captive. They raced about, intertwined, two separate things made into one dysfunctional whole. The giant smiled.



—–



This was really fun. Mrsha watched as the two rats tried to escape and kept pulling at each other. She prodded one, and it recoiled, bumping into the grey rat. They tried to scurry off in tandem; Mrsha snagged the linked tails. They weren’t nearly as fast, tied together! She put them down on the steps and watched one trying to pull the other down.

Fun, fun, fun! She had new pets! Mrsha wanted to show everyone. Moore and Lyonette and Drassi and—she looked up and scampered with the two rats in her paws. She looked around the crowded inn when she returned to the light and kicked the trapdoor shut. The rats were still in her paws; they were quivering. Mrsha gazed down at one and realized it had pooed in her paws! Annoyed, she wiped her paw on the rat and looked about.

Now, Lyonette wasn’t here…probably in the kitchens, and Drassi was busy. Moore was over there, but there was where Jelaqua was. And Maughin. Mrsha frowned impatiently. She wanted to show someone else! Who—

Then Mrsha saw her. Sitting at a table with a Drake. She hurried over and tugged at a furry leg. Raekea, the best [Armorer] in Liscor, looked down and blinked at Mrsha. The little Gnoll hesitated, but Raekea’s smile lit up her face.

“Little Mrsha, yes? Hello! And what’s that you have?”

Mrsha brightened. Some Gnolls were still scared of her. In both Liscor and Pallass; you could smell it. Even the nice Rufelt had been a bit uneasy. Xif hadn’t been, and Krshia and Elirr and a lot of the others weren’t, but some still looked at her white fur and whispered the word. Doombringer. Mrsha didn’t like that. She hated it, and it made her feel awful.

But Raekea just smiled, and she smelled only of coal and smoke and iron. She and the Drake sitting next to her looked down as Mrsha jumped onto a chair and placed her prize on the table. The Drake paused, stared at the two rats tied together scampering about on the table, and dropped his fork with an exclamation. Raekea just chuckled.

“Hah! Two rats! Now where did you find those? Wait—you’ve tied them together by the tails?”

“Eurgh! Are there rats in this inn?”

The Drake looked horrified. He was eating a steak and hurriedly pulled his plate back as the grey rat dragged her brother towards it. He was trying to make a flying leap off the table. Raekea wasn’t bothered at all. She looked at Mrsha’s hesitant face and slapped the Drake on the shoulder casually.

“Jekss, hush! They’re just rats. Tiny ones! They couldn’t hurt you even if they bit through your scales.”

“Why are they tied together?”

“Hmm. Because it’s funny to watch them try to run about? I used to do the same thing when I was a cub, Mrsha. Did you only find two? When I came to Liscor, when I was young, I would get as many as I could and tie them all together! They call them rat kings. Did you ever do that?”

She looked at Mrsha as the Gnoll shook her head, delighted. She hadn’t! But then, she’d only found a few rats in the wilderness, and they were a lot faster and harder to catch. Raekea laughed.

“Ah, well, it is easy in cities, yes?”

“Rats. Can they not be on the table?”

The Drake groaned. He was fairly slim, although his arms had lots of muscle. Raekea gave him a reproving look.

“Don’t be rude. Little Mrsha is showing us her prize! It’s what Gnoll children do. You should say how good it was of her to catch them! I was a Plains Gnoll, you know. Don’t be stifling.”

The Drake opened his mouth, saw the glint in Raekea’s eye, and heaved a big sigh. He eyed the rats and Mrsha, who was looking at him expectantly.

“Er, good job, Miss Mrsha. Nice rats. Now…Raeky, treasure of my hoard, I’m eating. I don’t want to have to look at those rats, fond recollections or not.”

He looked at Raekea, and she rolled her eyes, but affectionately. He was Raekea’s husband, and so she winked at Mrsha, and the Gnoll took them off the table. The rats quivered in her lap as she grinned up at the big Gnoll.

“There. Nasty rats are gone.”

“They’re still there. I know they are. I’m almost off my lunch. Almost, I said. Don’t touch my steak.”

Jekss grumbled. He speared a bit of cut steak, and Raekea plucked a morsel off his plate. He sighed as she took another and offered it to Mrsha, who joyfully accepted it. He balked when the third piece went to the two rats.

“Oh come on, Raekea! That’s my lunch! I came here to support you, not feed rats!”

The [Armorer] snorted and flicked her husband’s neck spines with one paw affectionately.

“You came here because I told you they sold steaks at any hour, made well, yes? Don’t lie. And if it bothers you so, I can take little Mrsha into the city. Honored Krshia wanted me to anyways. This inn’s too crowded for a Gnoll child. She should run free for a bit, right?”

She winked at Mrsha. The Gnoll nodded rapidly. Someone understood! She wagged her tail as the two rats squeaked. Raekea smiled at Mrsha again.

“I’ve been meaning to talk to Krshia about this. I know she lets little Mrsha come to her apartment, but we should let her visit more of us. Would you like that, Mrsha? You are a Gnoll after all. And it is not good to be apart from your true people. Ishkr and the others are fine, but you are also a Plains Gnoll, born and true. Some of us in Liscor are such, and you should be with us more often.”

She held out a paw, and Mrsha, beaming, took it. Both [Armorer]’s and [Druid]’s tails wagged, because it was true. They were both Plains Gnolls. Raekea saw Mrsha nod excitedly, and she stood up.

“Well then, why not now? I’ll head to Liscor with Mrsha, husband dearest, to spare you from fear of rats. Better hide them too, Mrsha. Or else Miss Lyonette might kick up a fuss! Humans and Drakes are weird about rodents. But they don’t mind rabbits.”

She laughed, and Mrsha laughed silently too. She ran to get her belt pouch, overjoyed. She’d get to go to Liscor! Raekea bent down and kissed her husband on the cheek. He smiled at her, but then called out as they left his table.

“It’s not just me being picky about rats, Raeky! It’s you Gnolls being weird! It’s not—”

He looked around for confirmation. Unfortunately, he met the eyes of the red Garuda who was enjoying a hamburger at the next table. She shrugged.

“Hey, I like rats, Mister. Don’t know what your problem is.”

The Drake [Blacksmith] sighed. And Mrsha, after some debate, held Raekea’s hand as she hid the two squirming rats in her special belt pouch. Lyonette sighed, but nodded.

“You can go, Mrsha. But don’t make trouble for Miss Raekea!”

She turned to the female Gnoll.

“I do appreciate it. I’d take Mrsha myself, but…”

Lyonette indicated the busy inn. Raekea bared her teeth in the big Gnoll grin. Drakes did it too; only Humans got nervous when they saw all those teeth. She nodded as Mrsha held her paw.

“Of course. Mrsha will be fine, I promise. And we will be among our own kind. I will let her play in the park.”

Our own kind. How long had it been since she’d been accepted by other Gnolls? Not since her fur turned white. Mrsha’s heart leapt, and she smiled proudly at Raekea. The [Armorer] winked as Lyonette nodded distractedly.

“Sounds great! I’ve got to run. Tell Erin I need her help, if she’s not busy! If she’s causing a scene, don’t tell her I said that!”



—–



In the city, Mrsha walked with Raekea, carefully holding her squirming belt pouch with one paw, Raekea’s paw with the other. She walked on two legs as the older Gnoll gently led her through crowded streets. Raekea chatted to her as only a Gnoll could.

“It will be a grand thing for you, Mrsha child. This Meeting of the Tribes. Not only will you come, you will be the honored guest of the Silverfang Tribe. Ours. I think I will go, if I can. Krshia will, of course, and some others from the city. But you will be with us. You must!”

Mrsha looked up anxiously. Among so many other Gnolls? Raekea just smiled and squeezed gently. Her paws were rougher from swinging a hammer, but her smile was very kind.

“Of course. You know magic.”

She whispered the word so quietly not even other Gnolls walking down the street could have heard. And the [Armorer]’s eyes shone.

“It is a thing we thought Gnolls were cursed by. But not only you; I hear this Ferkr of Pallass has gained it. Two [Mages]! Perhaps—perhaps it may take away from the worth of our gift. But the spellbook speaks for itself. And we have more to offer. Things we learned from your Miss Erin and, hopefully, the worth of Krshia Silverfang being part of Liscor’s Council! That would be hugely valuable in itself.”

Mrsha nodded seriously. But her heart still fluttered at the idea. In Liscor, people had feared her as one with white fur, the sole survivor of a tribe, marked as a Doombringer, a cursed one. And those were City Gnolls. Those who lived in tribes, the Plains Gnolls, would be even…but Raekea was holding Mrsha’s hand tightly and reassuring her.

“It will be fine. Perhaps Krshia might even ask our Chieftain, her sister, to name you as one of our tribe. Not to forget the Stone Spears, of course. But what she plans is to show the others that white fur is not cursed! The Raskghar prove that. You saved our people. Come to that, we will bring some of the dead bodies. Proof of our hated foes. That too is great worth. Although it is not something to be proud of.”

She shuddered, and Mrsha did too. She had been there. Raekea paused and bent to nuzzle Mrsha with her furry cheeks. It was such a Gnollish thing to do—Mrsha couldn’t remember when that had happened last. With Urksh? She clung to Raekea, and the [Armorer] whispered.

“I’m sorry. I should not have brought that up, no. You still have nightmares? Elirr tells me he does. But they are defeated. And if they should return—no—we will erase them from this dungeon and wherever they hide. The Pride of Kelia, they have sworn to Krshia to hunt down the Raskghar, yes? The adventurers will find the last of them in the dungeon and destroy them.”

That made Mrsha feel better. But she did still dream of the Raskghar. Of Nokha and the ritual. And yes, sometimes she woke up in fear, thrashing, until Lyonette held her. It was almost as comforting to see Raekea’s face. Because they spoke as Gnoll to Gnoll. Raekea paused, then pointed at Mrsha’s belt pouch.

“Your little rats might be suffocating. Take them out, yes? No one will mind.”

Mrsha did just that. The two rats came out, blinking in the daylight. She poked one, and it squeaked. The look on its face and the timing made both Gnolls giggle, Mrsha silently.



—–



Air! The sweet rush of it filled the rats’ lungs. And daylight! A foreign land lay before them, one made of light and giants! Had they reached some land of titans? The two tried to flee, but their captor held them tight.

What irony! That they should find a land beyond which they had ever dreamt of, with sights and places unimaginable to go! Yet they were captive. Prisoner. Above them, the largest titan chuckled as the small one tossed the rats up and down.

“Now, let us find the one we seek. For we may be Plains Gnolls, but we do battle as City Gnolls here, Mrsha. And with words, we must take a place on the Council. It is power and respect and, yes, benefit to the city that drives us. Not vanity alone.”

The white Gnoll nodded, and the two walked until the drifting people of the city of Liscor became thick as flies, then a living, breathing mass. A crowd, listening in a place where four streets met. And in that place, two sides argued, one Gnoll and one Drake.

So spoke the Drake, with fury and ire.

“The Antinium cannot be trusted! Don’t you see the lies in the web they weave? The insects would take your city and drown you in with gold and pretty gestures. Let us build a city alone!”

More than one person in the crowd listened and was troubled by his words because they made sense. Not long past were the Antinium Wars. But standing opposite him, a Gnoll replied in words no less eloquent.

“So you say alone, Lism. But who can be alone? We are Gnolls and Drakes. And here has come Pallass, flooding into our city to acknowledge it! Not because of any one Drake or Gnoll. But because of a Human! The very ones you rail against. Antinium held our walls. Antinium died for us. But it is all species I say Liscor should accept! And I say you would drive all but Drakes out!”

Those words stuck in the Drake’s throat, and he choked, and the crowd murmured. But thus went the debates. As Raekea paused with Mrsha on the edge of the crowd, she whispered to Mrsha.

“It seems to be deadlocked. No, in our favor. It is your [Innkeeper] who tilts the scales. And a truer friend to Gnolls we have yet to find.”

So she pointed, and Mrsha saw Erin Solstice standing in the front. Lism ignored her, and as his nephew, Olesm, for whom Mrsha saw as both good and evil, whispered to him, he replied. Or at least, tried.

“You are deflecting from the point with each statement, Krshia Silverfang. It’s not about other cities or even Humans—”

“That’s me! Hi, Lism! Remember me?”

“—Humans, as I was saying—it’s about one thing alone. Antinium. And I say again: have Klbkch, Klbkch the Slayer, swear that the Antinium offer Liscor no threat. I’m all for other species—”

“Except me! Do you remember how we met? You ripped me off! I paid a gold coin for a cloth bag!”

At that point, Lism closed his eyes and gnashed his teeth, and Mrsha and Raekea both laughed in delight, for Erin was being Erin and had a [Loud Voice]. The Drake went on, huffily, but losing momentum with each word.

“And if you think the Antinium won’t turn on the city when it suits them—”

“Do you remember trying to rip me off after that? By making Olesm play chess with me? Hi, Olesm!”

“Shut up! This is not about you, Human! So be quiet while we debate the real threat!”

Perhaps the spittle that flew struck even eight rows of the people standing closest; it sprayed those in front. But it did not stop the [Innkeeper], who replied to the outraged Drake without missing a beat.

“You say it’s all about Antinium. But all you’re doing is painting them in a bad light. There are bad ones and good ones. So maybe Klbkch won’t swear he never thought of doing Liscor wrong. But can you tell me Liscor has no plans to destroy the Antinium Hive? Seems to me you’re a hypocrite, Lism. And a really bad guy.”

On his stage, the Drake spluttered, and some of the crowd laughed. The white Gnoll laughed in silence, the [Armorer] with her voice. But the [Strategist] who stood at his uncle’s side only sighed. Olesm Swifttail stepped up and, in a quiet voice, delivered his counterstroke. Whispered words that made Lism’s eyes light up and announce as loud as could be.

“Miss Erin, it seems to me you have affection for the Antinium you call friends. But they are a handful, a few, a fraction of a larger whole. And the Grand Queen is no Human’s ally, nor Drake nor Gnoll’s. Can you call Antinium anything but slaves who will obey when she points them to war? Can you claim they will not obey her when she speaks?”

The crowd swung back and forth. But Erin spoke again, and Krshia next, and they swung closer towards her than the Drake’s side. Because the crazed Human [Innkeeper] stood there with Pallass’ [Senators] and Gnolls, and that was plain to see. So the Drake, in desperation, promised more and more. And offered less and less.

“I’ll build the walls twice as high!”

The Gnoll laughed and shook her head.

“With what budget? Don’t make promises that you can’t keep.”

“In that case, I’ll call for even more companies from Liscor! Bring our army back!”

“To do what? Guard our sheep? Where were they months gone past? They sent a hundred when we needed all and more!”

The Drake ground his teeth. Mrsha, restless in the crowd, looked up at Raekea and tugged on her hand because she was sure Erin would win and wanted to run and play. And turning, with the two rats in hand, she heard the Drake’s last, desperate pitch.

“In that case, I’ll execute the damned Minotaur as soon as I’m elected! No—I’ll have him drawn and quartered! Vote Lism for justice and a horrible death! Vote Lism and I’ll see justice to every Gnoll who was wronged by him!”

The rats gasped with the Gnoll as she squeezed them tight. And turning back, Mrsha looked up. And her eyes were round with memory and fright.



—–



“Execution.”

The word came from Krshia. Quietly. Mrsha looked up at her and remembered.

A bloodstained altar. Gnolls being dragged by Raskghar. A bloody rock. A Minotaur, eyes red with madness. A half-Elf pleading.

Calruz.

And the thought of him filled her with true fear. Because his was another face of her nightmares. Raekea turned too, and Lism, sensing the break in the deadlock, leapt onto it.

“Of course! He’s been sitting in our prisons for months! Too long! What’s the hold up? What’s the delay? Let’s execute him already! I think I speak for all of us that it’s overdue; vote for me and I’ll execute him by drawing and quartering! No, by fire!”

He looked around, raising his claws, and there were shouts of agreement from the crowd. Just shouts. But no one looked ready to object. Krshia just sneered.

“Paltry promises, Lism. That…Minotaur will face justice for his crimes. It’s not a matter of how, but when.”

“You think so, Silverfang? Then why isn’t he already dead? He should have been strung up the moment we got him! Along with any Raskghar—if we’d taken those beasts alive! I’ve heard he’s being kept because our Watch Captain needs proof he wasn’t enchanted or some nonsense. Phsaw!”

Lism spat. Someone in the crowd shouted in disgust. He paused.

“Sorry about that. Anyways, I say let there be justice—now! No waiting! Only a monster could do what that Minotaur did. Not only was his team one of the ones that released the undead from the crypts, he sent the Raskghar to attack our citizens. So I say—let’s kill him and make it something that would give even those beasts nightmares! Kill that Minotaur! Kill that Minotaur!”

His supporters took up the chant. On stage, Krshia folded her arms, looking annoyed. And in the crowd, Mrsha saw Raekea bare her teeth.

“There’s something I could agree with. What’s taking Watch Captain Zevara so long? Shut up that Drake, Krshia.”

The [Shopkeeper] clearly intended to. Mrsha saw Krshia waving for silence. She also saw Erin waving her arms in the crowd and making her way to the platform. Krshia didn’t see as she snapped at Lism.

“You’re quick to change your tune, Lism! I thought this was ‘about the Antinium’. You’re just throwing anything you can out in hopes you can distract from the real argument! But if you like, I’ll personally guarantee that if I take office, I’ll have that Minotaur executed as he should be. Are you satisfied with—”

She broke off, frowning. Mrsha heard the voice, quieter, but distinct. Erin. She was shouting up at Krshia on her platform. And Mrsha saw Erin’s wide eyes and the look on her face. Krshia bent. Her expression told Mrsha many things.

“What’s that, Silverfang? Lost your tongue?”

Krshia didn’t reply. She’d turned off the magical enhancement to her voice. But Mrsha and Raekea—all of the Gnolls in the crowd could hear what Erin and Krshia were saying. Mrsha paused. Raekea stared.

“Let him live? What on earth is your Human saying? Mrsha—”

She looked down. The white Gnoll was trembling, holding onto her rats. And Krshia was snapping at Erin. But the [Innkeeper] was raising her arms, making an ‘x’. The look on her face was set. Krshia straightened and stared blankly for a second.

“Well?”

Lism was crowing. Because Olesm had seen the back-and-forth. And he’d stepped forwards to whisper in his uncle’s ear. Because he could see it. No—Mrsha could see it. The rats could see it.

A flaw. There stood Erin. On her face was written one thing. And all of the things she’d brought—the Pallassian [Senators], the door to the Walled City itself, her support of Krshia—it all teetered. The Gnoll stared down at Erin.

“I must discuss this. Excuse me, everyone. I will not be long.”

She muttered with her enchanted voice and then turned it off and leapt from the stage. Lism and his four cohorts crowed in exultation, and the crowd murmured. The Gnolls especially. Mrsha just stared as Krshia grabbed Erin, and the two began to argue fiercely as Selys hurried over.

It couldn’t be. But Mrsha knew Erin. She knew Ceria. Sometimes, the half-Elf came back, smelling of Calruz. But it could not be.

“Let him live? Was that what she said?”

Raekea’s growl of fury made even some other Gnolls shrink back. The [Armorer]’s arms tensed, and Mrsha saw heads turning to Lism. He certainly wasn’t about to give Krshia a break. On stage, he began shouting, free from interruption.

“You heard it, folks! Honorable Krshia would let that Minotaur remain in jail, free as a damned bird, for killing our citizens! No—worse! Have you heard what he did? Would any of you let that monster walk free another second? I say let’s kill him, but make the execution fit the crime! Get some oil, boil it, and boil him, one inch at a time for a day!”

“That’s right! Justice for Liscor’s Gnolls!”

One of the Drakes standing besides Lism howled, and it was Gnolls and Drakes who shouted with him. Not one Gnoll in the crowd would argue against that. Mrsha was trembling. She stared at Erin.

No. But yes. Erin was shaking her head. Krshia was tearing at her fur. Selys looked conflicted. And Watch Captain Zevara—every head turned towards her as she climbed onto Krshia’s vacated stage.

“Shopkeeper Lism! What did you just say you’d do to my prisoner?”

She bellowed straight into a speaking gem she’d snatched from Elirr. The crowd winced because Zevara barely needed the gem to begin with. Lism hesitated, but, like him or hate him, he didn’t back down even with the Watch Captain shouting at him.

“Watch Captain Zevara, I admire your restraint! But this is a matter of public decency! Of justice! That Minotaur—”

“Shopkeeper Lism! I don’t recall seeing your face in my damn mirror this morning!”

Zevara’s bellow cut Lism off. She was actually better than Krshia at rendering the Drake speechless. Zevara went on; her scales flushed darker as she shouted.

“For your information, the Silver-rank Adventurer known as Calruz has not been held to justice for one simple reason: we are not certain he was in control of himself when he committed the crimes he was imprisoned for!”

A murmur ran through the crowd, but a discontented one. Lism frowned and shouted back.

“Even so, Watch Captain. That doesn’t excuse any of what he did. That Minotaur is a criminal!”

Again, Mrsha felt a leap in her chest. She agreed with the nasty Drake! But Watch Captain Zevara just glared at Lism.

“This is not a matter for the election. Nor is it a matter for the Council to decide. I am Watch Captain, and unless you’d like to relieve me of my post, the fate of Calruz the Minotaur is my jurisdiction!”

She threw the speaking stone at Elirr and stormed off the stage. But she’d gotten no further than ten steps when Lism spoke.

“Well then, people of Liscor. That was our Watch Captain, and a finer arm of the law we couldn’t ask for. But there’s law and there’s justice, and I think her tail is tied by the former. Therefore, if I’m elected, my first action as a member of Liscor’s Council would be to order the Minotaur’s execution. What say you, Krshia Silverfang?”

Zevara whirled, her eyes flashing with fury. But Lism, on stage, gave her a look as solid as stone. And she hesitated. So did Krshia. The Gnoll looked up, glared at Erin with fury and—Mrsha saw with disbelief—disgust, and turned away. Lism nodded slowly, and victory lit up his gaze.

“There you have it. It’s not just about Antinium. It’s not just about other races. It’s about justice. Vote for Team Lism, and we’ll make sure that Minotaur dies screaming!”

The roar that followed his words was the loudest yet. The crowd had heard every facet of the debates. The back and forth. But that was argument over minutiae. The rights of Goblins. The presence of Antinium. This was a calling for blood. And the Gnolls who shouted had forgotten who they were cheering for.

The Minotaur. Mrsha felt her insides trembling with fear. But hate was breaking the frozen flow. Hatred, beating with fear in her veins. She looked up as the rats froze, trembling. And Raekea’s teeth were bared. Then the [Armorer] caught herself.

“This isn’t good. What is Krshia thinking? Say she’ll kill the Minotaur too! Unless—is it really Erin Solstice? She’d protect him?”

She looked disbelieving, shaking her head. But Mrsha remembered. Ceria, the Horns of Hammerad, were a guest of Erin’s inn. Calruz had been one too. If Erin had a flaw, it was that she loved people. She was too nice.

But not him. Never him. Mrsha let go of Raekea as dark thoughts overwhelmed her. She was in the cage! The Raskghar were there, snarling, in the darkness. Facestealer was there. Calruz reached for her as Nokha laughed. Mrsha trembled, holding the rats as they squirmed. And Lism was shouting words. Words she wanted to hear.

“Can I have any suggestions? We don’t have a [Headsman], but we can always find a dull axe! Boiling in oil! Burning at a stake? Drawing and quartering, a classic! What about death by exposure? Long, but I hear it’s agonizing towards the end!”

“Toss him to the Shield Spiders!”

One of the Drake candidates was shouting encouragement. He turned, caught up in the moment as he raised his arms. Lism glared, taken out of the spotlight as the Drake went on.

“No—let’s do more than that! I say, let’s chop him up piece by piece and make sure he remembers it! Or find a few zombies and let them gnaw on him! Or—I’ve got it! Let’s eat him!”

The crowd, which had been roaring their approval, fell silent. Lism stared at the Drake standing next to him. The Drake lowered his arms.

“Uh—okay, maybe that was going a bit too far.”

“What kind of lame-brained—get off the stage, you idiot! Sorry about that, folks. Ahem. But spread the word! This is about justice! And I, Lism, guarantee—”

Mrsha could hear no more. She backed away from the crowd, shaking. She didn’t know which was worse: Erin clearly pleading with Krshia or the fact that Lism was saying what she wanted to hear. She wanted Calruz, the Minotaur, dead. Him and all the Raskghar. He’d killed Gnolls. He’d sacrificed them, and the Raskghar had laughed and laughed and—

“Out of the way! Guards! Keep this crowd under control! If Shopkeeper Lism tries to incite a riot, arrest him! I want a doubled guard on the prison! I’m going to yank that idiot’s tail off—”

A voice snapped, and Mrsha saw the crowd parting. Watch Captain Zevara strode past her, her scales pale with fury. A few [Guards] trailed after her, Drakes and Gnolls both. The rest stayed in the crowd. Even they looked like they’d taken Lism’s side. Mrsha heard one of them, a Gnoll, growling at her companion, a Drake.

“The Captain’s out of her mind.”

“Shut up. Don’t let her hear that.”

“But why are we keeping that thing alive in the cells? We have to empty his cage, feed him—I agree with Lism! And I never thought I’d say that.”

The Drake sighed. She looked no happier, although her Gnoll companion looked far more furious. Of course she did. It had been Gnolls the Raskghar attacked. The Drake answered after a pause.

“You heard her. It’s about figuring out whether he was enchanted.”

“And if he was? You think he was ‘magically’ mind controlled and did all that? I wouldn’t believe that if you got an [Archmage] here to say it! No matter what, he deserves to—”

“You’re not arguing with me! Stop snapping! Just don’t let Watch Captain Zevara hear you say that! You know what she’s like about rules. She’s principled.”

“I heard she goes and talks with him. She thinks he’s innocent! Her and that half-Elf.”

“Stop. Snapping. At. Me!”

The Drake and Gnoll glared at each other. At last, the Gnoll [Guardswoman] subsided. The Drake nodded.

“I know it’s personal, Merka. But—hells, at least this way if Shopkeeper Lism wins, you get your justice. The Council could probably force Captain Z to execute the Minotaur.”

“Don’t call her ‘Captain Z’. What are you, Relc?”

The Gnoll growled, but she was mollified a bit. She cast around and nodded.

“And if he doesn’t win? If Krshia wins and that Human makes her keep the Minotaur alive?”

The Drake sighed.

“Well, I guess he stays alive. Does it look fun being cooped up in that cell? Come on, let’s patrol a few streets over so we don’t have to listen to this. I’ll buy you a snack, so calm down, okay?”

The two [Guardswomen] walked out of the crowd. Mrsha, listening, saw the other [Guards] on the street talking as well. One of them she recognized. It was Tkrn. He was standing with a group of three Gnolls and a Drake. And all of them looked even angrier.

With Lism shouting in the background and the angry discussions in the crowd—all of which had the same content as the one between the two [Guardswomen]—it was hard for even Mrsha’s ears to pick out any one phrase. But the Gnolls and Drake were talking. She heard…

“…exactly. If Honored Krshia wins…”

“…matter…we’ll make sure that Minotaur suffers…”

“…that Minotaur what he deserves…”

“Come on. Let’s go.”

The last came from the tallest Gnoll, who had a pale stripe across one ear and down to his chin across his tan fur. He gestured, and the [Guardsmen] and two [Guardswomen] followed him in the same direction as Zevara. Mrsha stared. Then she saw Tkrn’s face, the bared teeth. And she, curious, trembling with pain and fear and smelling their intentions, followed.

Raekea didn’t notice. The [Armorer] was pushing her way towards Krshia, trying to weigh in on the debate between Erin and Krshia. The [Innkeeper] was shouting in Krshia’s face.

“No! No, no, no! Ceria says—”

“This is justice!”

Krshia shouted back. The [Shopkeeper]’s eyes were wide with fury, her paws clenched. Erin glared back.

“And if you’re wrong? What if you’re wrong? Ceria says it wasn’t the same Calruz she knew, and I believe her! If there’s a chance, it’s murder!”

“He’s been tested for magic!”

“What if it’s not magic?”

“You mean, what if it’s him? Erin! Lism could win on this issue alone! Would you really destroy all we’ve worked for? For this?”

Raekea pushed her way forwards, past Elirr. Erin took a deep breath. She looked at the Pallassian [Senators], at Krshia, at Selys and around. And she slowly nodded.

“You want my help, Krshia? Let Zevara decide if Calruz dies. Let there be law. Not him being tortured to death! Let’s talk to her. Otherwise, you can go try and beat Lism by saying you’ll do the most horrible things to Calruz. And when you do, I’ll walk back to my inn and slam the door to Pallass. And if you think—”

She cut off as Raekea thrust an arm out and grabbed her. Selys’ eyes went round in alarm, and Krshia turned.

“Raekea—”

“How dare you! That Minotaur killed my people! He sacrificed them and worked with the Raskghar!”

The [Armorer] howled. Erin glared.

“I know. I haven’t forgiven him—”

“Forgiven? He can’t be forgiven! He can only be killed! How dare you argue otherwise? In front of the Mrsha child no less—”

Raekea’s furious paw pointed down at her side. Erin blinked and stared. So did the other Gnolls. Elirr, Krshia, Selys—they all stared at the blank bit of street. Raekea paused. She looked down. Then behind her. Then amid the milling crowd.

“Mrsha? Mrsha? Where did you—”

She stared at Erin. Let go of her. Then Raekea panicked.



—–



There he sat. There he stood. As time passed, he knew the cell of his world. And a small world it was. The magical field that held him pulsed. The cell was small. Large enough for him to pace in, even exercise.

Small for a world. Smaller still with months spent here. So small it wore him into pieces. Until death was welcome. And if death could erase dishonor, he would have taken it.

So he waited. When the Drake stormed into the prison, he looked up. And she told him of his doom.

“They will kill you. Slowly, by the masses. And they will do it if Lism wins.”

And the Minotaur smiled without rancor. Without fear. He spoke with thought, forethought, afterthought, with the measure of a prisoner for whom time had different meaning.

“Well and so. It would be fair.”

The Watch Captain paced in front of the cell. Smoke hung in the air, her fiery passion.

“The City Watch and the law aren’t tools for politicians to use. Nor are lives of prisoners. And if Erin has her way and I mine, this will never be so.”

“And if I am guilty? If the [Mages] find nothing wrong with me?”

“Then I will consider your crime. But I am the law. And I judge. And I do not see the monster you would die as.”

The words were fire. They warmed even the Minotaur’s heart. But he put one palm on the magical wall of his cell. His one arm, straining against ensorcelled air. And he longed to see the sky.

“I would rather die. Let them have their vengeance.”

“Never. Not so long as I remain.”

The Drake bared her teeth. And the Minotaur bowed his head.

“But a prisoner I stay. And I would rather die than sit here another day.”

To that, there was nothing she could say.



—–



At last, Zevara stopped pacing. She leaned against the wall of the cell. Calruz waited. His eyes were fixed on her. He stood as still as a statue. And when she looked at him, Zevara saw a Minotaur.

Just a Minotaur. Haunted by what he had done. But she did not see the monster who had led the Raskghar. She had seen him when Erin had brought the battle to the Raskghar far below. And she remembered a monster.

That was not the person who pleaded for death. Though Calruz’s words chilled Zevara, she could not answer his request.

“This goes beyond what you want, Calruz. This is a matter of a threat to Liscor. If something in that dungeon got you, I want to know what it was. If it wasn’t your fault—you deserve to clear your name.”

Was it a lie at this point, or the truth? Zevara was afraid, very afraid, that she was letting her feelings cloud her judgment. Because she liked the Minotaur in the cell, damn it! He understood what it was like to be her. When he spoke of honor, she understood. What honor was to him was law to her.

But Calruz just shook his head.

“No one has suffered my fate. No one. No magic was found on me.”

“But you didn’t see some of the monsters in the dungeon. There was something in the water.”

“A spell. It doesn’t matter. The adventurers are still clearing the dungeon. Have any of them gone mad?”

Zevara didn’t answer. She turned away.

“I’m not debating this with you, Calruz. I just wanted you to know what was happening.”

She turned to go rather than face arguing with the Minotaur. Calruz spoke as Zevara was leaving.

“Why do you fight so hard for me? I don’t deserve it, either way.”

Zevara hesitated. She walked back to the cell, the magical barrier. She had no fear of it breaking despite Calruz leaning on it. It had been made to hold Gold-rank prisoners. He could strike it even with a magical weapon as hard as he liked, and she doubted it would break. Although she wouldn’t risk that. She hesitated—and then reached through the barrier and touched his arm.

The cell could be configured, so Calruz could pass through the waste bucket or receive food. If he tried to grab her, on the other hand, she wouldn’t budge. He started at her touch.

“Maybe you are guilty. Maybe you’re innocent. I cannot tell. But I know this: letting Lism lead a mob to rip you apart is not how the law works, Calruz. And I will be certain before you die.”

He breathed in and out.

“Then I will abide. My confinement is no more than I deserve. Rather, I suppose it’s a fitting punishment until my fate. But, Watch Captain Zevara. Remember what I have done. No excuse will change that. Even if I was truly ensorcelled.”

That was true too. Zevara nodded and stepped back.

“I know. But I just can’t put an honorable person to death. If I did, I think I’d lose my class.”

That made Calruz smile bitterly.

“I see. So we’re both bound by our honor. I cannot be sure it was me that was the monster, entirely sure, so I am not allowed to seek my death. And you cannot give it for the same reason. It’s harder than I thought when I was younger.”

“What is?”

“Honor.”

And there was nothing Zevara could say to that. She moved back. She knew she had to return. To tell Krshia—something.

“I’ll check back on you. And I’m doubling the guard on the prison in case Lism stirs up trouble. No—when he does.”

“Very well.”

The Minotaur watched as Zevara strode away. Then hurry back. He looked expectantly at her. Zevara snapped.

“What kind of Skills does a [Prisoner] get? It had better not be lock picking Skills or…”

“Nothing like that. The first Skill I gained was called [Peaceful Rest]. It helps with the stone floor. And then [Efficient Metabolism].”

“What in the name of the Ancestors is a metabolism?”

“I don’t know. But I get hungry less.”

“Huh.”

Zevara considered it. Then she stalked off. Calruz watched her go. He whispered.

“And then I gained [Recall Guilt]. And I remembered half. But the rest was a dream. So maybe you are right. But half of it is enough. Too heavy by far.”

He leaned on the cell’s wall, and Watch Captain Zevara did not hear the last. She strode out of the prison, snapping at the [Guards] on duty.

“Keep an eye on the cells.”

“Yes, Watch Captain.”

They watched her go. If their eyes lingered on her back and tail, she didn’t notice. The Drake left the prison, hurrying back down the streets. She didn’t notice the other Gnolls and two Drakes filing into the prison after she’d left. And they were so busy keeping an eye on her, they never noticed the little Gnoll creeping after them.



—–



“Hey. What was she doing in there?”

“Same as always. Talking with him.”

“About what?”

“I didn’t listen. Look, you want to do this, I’m staying out.”

It was seven. Five Gnolls, two Drakes. Tkrn among them. Mrsha watched Tkrn shift as the Gnoll with the stripe conferred with the [Guards].

One of them folded his arms. He was a Drake and looked…uncomfortable. Mrsha didn’t know what they were discussing, but of the three [Guards] on duty, one was ‘in’, one wasn’t, and the last, another Gnoll, was undecided. She looked from the Gnolls to the two Drakes, and her expression firmed.

“I’m in too. Tkrn?”

“I don’t know. If Watch Captain Zevara finds out, it’ll be our tails—”

Tkrn fidgeted nervously. Mrsha could smell his anxiety. Her paws held her rats as they squirmed in her belt pouch. She could smell the prison. It stank. But she could also smell him in there. And she hated and feared that smell.

Hate was all she smelled from the Gnoll with the stripe. Hate and fury. It reeked from all of them. Mrsha wanted to scrub her nose. But she held still, listening. The Gnoll with the stripe was glaring at Tkrn and the Drake who wasn’t ‘in’.

“If she finds out, it’s because one of us let on. You don’t like it? You keep watch. Or leave. Take a walk; we can cover for you. Lassil. Are you going to turn on us?”

He stared at the Drake. Lassil glared back.

“No. But I’m not sticking around for this either. Nothing’s coming from me. But I don’t want to hear anything.”

He stalked out of the prison. The others watched him go silently. The Gnoll with the stripe nodded. He pointed at Tkrn.

“You staying or leaving?”

“I—”

“Then keep watch. You smell Zevara coming or anyone else, signal us! Now move; we don’t have all day before the Watch Captain checks on us. Or one of the Senior Guardsmen. Especially Klbkch.”

The others nodded. Tkrn took up his post outside the prison, and the rest went in. Mrsha couldn’t hear or see what they were doing. But she had to know. So she crept forwards. Tkrn was muttering to himself under his breath. He seemed conflicted. He barely smelled Mrsha until she was right up on him. Then he jumped.

“Who—Mrsha?”

He stared down at her. The little Gnoll looked wide-eyed up at him. Tkrn stared. Then he looked at the prison.

“How did you get—did you hear—go away. Go back to Krshia. Or the inn! Shoo!”

He motioned her back with the butt of his spear. But Mrsha was close now. The door to the prison was iron, but she could hear sounds coming from within; it wasn’t fully closed. The sounds of voices. Something hitting something else. She narrowed her eyes. Tkrn hesitated.

“I’m warning—”

Too late. Mrsha jumped forwards on all fours. She raced through the door, pushing it open. Tkrn cursed and grabbed, but he was cumbersome in his armor. Mrsha ran into the prison. Rows of silent cells, mostly empty, greeted her. Two prisoners stared out. A Gnoll and a Drake. The Gnoll was baring his teeth. The Drake was listening in silence.

At the far end was his cell. And him. Mrsha stopped as the Drake and Gnolls turned. She saw one of them lower the butt of their spear, whirl.

“Tkrn! I told you—”

The Gnoll snarled. Then he saw Mrsha and stopped. He took a step back with two of the Gnolls.

“Doombringer?”

“It’s just Mrsha! She slipped by me—”

Tkrn raced after Mrsha, panting. He caught her, but the Drake made an agonized sound.

“You idiot, Tkrn! Just a kid? She’s seen us!”

Mrsha did see. She saw a Minotaur pulling himself upright. His broad nose was bloody. His fur dislodged. And he was being struck.

By the spears. A pair of [Guards] held them. They were jabbing them into the cell, using the blunt ends. There wasn’t much Calruz could have done to stop them if he’d tried. But he hadn’t. He’d been standing still. Now they lowered the spears. Tkrn turned pale.

“I’ll take her out. Mrsha, you can’t tell anyone. You didn’t see this. Understand?”

He tried to pull Mrsha back. But one of the Gnolls, the one with the stripe holding the spear, stopped her. He looked down.

“Wait. She was there.”

The others looked at Mrsha. She stared at the Gnoll [Guardsman]. Then at the Minotaur. She shrank back. But the Gnoll just raised his spear and jabbed it into the cell. Reflexively, Calruz twisted, but the spear struck him in the chest. He barely moved. Just grunted. But Mrsha knew it had to hurt.

“See?”

The Gnoll turned to her, his teeth bared. He gestured. Mrsha saw the Drake turn. She was panting. Her eyes were locked on Calruz’s. And she smelled of hate. The Gnoll looked down at Mrsha.

“We’re punishing him. We should have done it long ago. Only, the Watch Captain keeps visiting. But we’ve had enough. Lism is right. Election or not, we’ll make sure this thing doesn’t sit happily in here, eating and shitting while we clean up after him. He’ll pay. My brother was one of the ones the Raskghar sacrificed. Everyone here knows someone who was taken. And you were there.”

Tkrn was frozen. And the worried Drake looked at him.

“Ulkel! Don’t tell her—”

“Shut up, Paiss. She gets it. She was there. You think I’m right, don’t you?”

The Gnoll squatted down. Mrsha backed up. But then she turned her head. Calruz stood in his cell. He stared at her, his blue eyes calm. Unwavering. She recognized him at the same time he recognized her.

His eyes widened. She shook. The memories hit Mrsha. The smell. The fear. She bared her teeth, and little thorns grew from her paws. The Gnoll nodded. He held the spear out.

“Here. You want to try?”

It was too large, too heavy for her. Mrsha hesitated and grabbed at it. She tried to lift it. The prison was silent. Her arms shook; she stumbled. She was too weak to lift it and stand on two feet. Tkrn muttered.

“Ulkel. She’s a kid.”

“So? If she can’t do it, she knows what we’re doing. And she won’t tell. Right?”

The Gnoll looked at Mrsha. She met his eyes, and then she looked at Calruz. Hate. Hate, hate, hate—she bared her teeth and shook her head. The Gnoll nodded.

“Anyone got a dagger?”

At that, Calruz stirred. He broke off from staring at Mrsha. He looked up. And his voice was low. It was familiar.

“Keep the child out of this. She does not need to see my face ag—”

He grunted, and his head snapped back as the butt of the spear struck him. The Drake lowered it and spat.

“Shut up. Tkrn, take the kid out of here. And shut the damned door, you idiot!”

“Come on, Mrsha.”

Tkrn muttered as he bent down and grabbed Mrsha. She didn’t protest as he pulled her out. But neither did she take her eyes off the far end of the prison. The Drake and Gnolls were taking turns striking with the spears. And Mrsha wanted to see it. She trembled. She hated the Minotaur in the cell.

The last thing she heard was the Gnoll pulling a potion from his belt. He was talking to the Drake.

“Make sure to splash the healing potion on him afterwards. And mark me, Minotaur, you’re going to earn every drop.”

Then the door closed. Mrsha felt two paws put her on the ground. Tkrn waved a paw in her face. She looked up at last. And he stared down at her. His eyes were bigger. Worried.

“Mrsha. About that. It was—we’re just—it’s Captain Zevara.”

She didn’t respond. Tkrn went on, clearing his throat.

“She’s a good Watch Captain. One of the best. But she doesn’t understand. She’s not one of us. Don’t tell her. Don’t tell Krshia. Or anyone else. This is—justice.”

He hunched over his spear. And she smelled his fury too. Tkrn held her gaze. Mrsha nodded slowly. He relaxed.

“We’ll make him pay. For you and Honored Elirr and everyone else. Don’t tell. Now go before someone comes looking.”

Mrsha went. Slowly. Gazing back at the prison. She kept remembering the sight. Part of her was afraid. Still afraid, even with the Minotaur in the cell. The rest of her wished she’d been strong enough to lift the spear, that Ulkel had given her a dagger. She shivered with hate.

That was how Raekea found her with Erin. They scolded her, worried, and Mrsha was whisked back to the inn in disgrace. She didn’t care. She had seen a monster. And she had seen him being punished.

It still wasn’t enough. But it was a start.



—–



This was still the tale of two rats tied up in Erin’s inn. They found themselves there, freed from the captivity of a place darker and smaller than any they had known. A place where they couldn’t breathe, where they were trapped.

And even in the light, in the air, a captive they remained. Tethered by their tails. By hope, perhaps. For one might have gnawed off their tail and saved the other. But neither brother nor sister had the will. The daring. They hoped, and so they remained wandering around on the floor, pulling one, then the other.

Captives of the child. And she stared at them. All the fun was gone.

She had been scolded and reprimanded. Brought back in disgrace. But that was not what consumed her heart. It was memory and agony. It was vengeance.

Vengeance. The paw came down, and the grey rat skittered away, fearful of the wrath that would have laid low mountains. She tugged, and her brother squeaked and scrabbled over to bite her. Oh, how they turned. While, above them, the child pondered.



—–



In her head, Mrsha saw the Minotaur in his cell. Alive. Whole. While the dead Gnolls, her kin, lay in the darkness. On the altar. The [Guards] did what was right. What Mrsha would have done.

They jabbed him, struck him again and again.

Part of her wished she’d held the spear. Part of her wished they’d used the other end. Mrsha’s paw landed with fury and grief, and a rat squeaked. The sound was funny, and it almost made Mrsha smile. She paused and did it again.



—–



A hammer fell. The blow crushed the grey rat to the floor. She wailed, but such agony she felt only came out in air, in a sound. And above her, the child laughed. Her brother scurried away, faithless, afraid. And the sister felt her breath explode as the paw shook her.

Oh, tragedy. Oh, wrath. What had they done to deserve this? The two longed for the darkness. For their kin, the People of the Grain Sack. The paw, the dreaded thing, lifted them up, and they beheld two brown eyes.

Tyrant! Fiend! At last, they realized this was not some impartial architect, but a thing! No rat. The not-Rat was giant, but mortal still! It could be felled! So they set to with tooth and fang, striking a blow against their captor. Though they might fall, it was worth it to fight back against the instrument of their fate—



—–



Mrsha stared at the wriggling, squeaking rats as she held them up by their connected tails. They rotated, lashing out with their tiny claws. She giggled, forgetting about the Minotaur for a moment. Then she heard an exclamation.

“Mrsha! What is that?”

It was a horrified female voice. Guiltily, Mrsha tried to hide the rats behind her back. But too late. Lyonette stared at the wriggling rats in horror.

“Rats?”

Her exclamation made a number of the inn’s patrons look around. Lyonette hesitated, then bent over.

“Throw them out at once! Wait—what have you done to—Mrsha!”

She looked horrified, mainly by the knot in the tails. Mrsha looked up, suddenly afraid. She didn’t want to be scolded! She looked around and then raced over to a group of Gnolls. Raekea looked up from her furious discussion with a group of Gnolls who were all set on arguing with Erin. The [Innkeeper] herself was talking with Rufelt and Lasica at the bar.

“Mrsha, come back here right now, young Miss!”

Lyonette stormed after her as Mrsha hid behind Raekea. The [Armorer] looked up.

“What’s going on?”

“She has two—”

Lyonette hesitated and lowered her voice.

“Two rats in her paws! It’s filthy! I don’t know where she got them—Mrsha, give me—no, put them outside! And why are their tails in a knot?”

Raekea looked down at Mrsha, who was peering around her legs, wide-eyed. She laughed and patted Mrsha reassuringly on the head. Emboldened, Mrsha crept out and held the rats up. Lyonette recoiled. But Raekea just snorted, and some of the Gnolls did too.

“Miss Lyonette, they’re just rats. And the tails are a common thing. Have you not heard of rat kings?”

“I’ve heard of rats. And I know [Kings]. What’s this about a rat king?”

“Ah, it’s a childhood thing! Do Drakes and Humans not…? Well, when I was a child…”

Lyonette listened to Raekea fondly reminisce about doing what Mrsha had done in disbelief. One of the other Gnolls smiled fondly as well.

“Ah, that brings me back! I used to do the exact same.”

“I kept them and fed them to my dog.”

“Bah! The trick was to find as many as you could. What was your record? I got sixteen, but then—”

The Gnolls happily broke out into a debate. They laughed and patted Mrsha’s head, flicking their paws and sending the two rats scurrying across the table, bumping into each other. Lyonette shook her head at last.

“That may be so, but in this inn, those rats don’t belong. They’re filthy, and they could bite. Mrsha, remember Erin’s lesson about hygiene? Throw them out at once!”

She pointed. Mrsha looked up, her mouth and eyes widened in silent protest. But she wanted to keep them! They were funny, and they didn’t fly off like Apista. She patted a rat to demonstrate, and it went squeak!

The Gnolls laughed heartily, enjoying the distraction. Raekea turned to Lyonette, smiling.

“Miss Lyonette, rats aren’t nearly as filthy as you might think. If these haven’t been living in a sewer, why not let little Mrsha keep them? She’s a Plains Gnoll, and I’m sure she did this in her tribe. Come to that, she deserves to run about! That’s probably why she got them to begin with.”

Mrsha nodded rapidly up at Lyonette. The [Princess] frowned. She opened her mouth, hesitated, and put her foot down in both senses of the word.

“Not in my inn. And Mrsha’s my responsibility, thank you, Miss Raekea. I’ll decide what she can and can’t do.”

The Gnoll [Armorer] frowned. She glanced at Mrsha. The Gnoll sulkily held the rats to her chest. They were trying to bite and scratch her fur. The older Gnoll turned back to the young Human woman.

“Miss Lyonette. I understand you take care of Mrsha. But she is a Gnoll. There are some things she should do differently. We are her people; we understand. Let her keep the rats. She’ll tire of them, but she should be free to do things as we did. She is a Gnoll.”

She emphasized the word again, and the Gnolls around her nodded. Lyonette hesitated. She glanced at Mrsha and bit her lip.

“I—”

And that was it. Into that gap, all the Gnolls spoke at once, stories about when they were young, things Mrsha should be allowed to do. Raekea winked at Mrsha, and the little Gnoll beamed at her. She clutched the rats and hurried off. Lyonette nearly followed her, but the Gnolls held her back, arguing, cajoling.

In another corner of the inn, Mrsha lowered the rats when she felt a tug at her fur. The grey rat was biting a tuft of her fur. Mrsha, amused, pulled at it, but the rat refused to let go. She frowned as the other rat dangled and pulled.

Ow! The rat had her hair and was chewing at it. Mrsha fumbled with her paws, trying to remove the tiny mouth. As she pulled, the grey rat suddenly let go. She twisted and, before Mrsha could catch hold of her, bit Mrsha on the paw.

It hurt! Mrsha dropped the pair of rats with a silent cry. It drew the attention of few people, but one [Innkeeper] broke off from her conversation with Rufelt and Lasica and looked up blankly for a second. In her corner, Mrsha felt at the small bite and saw it had drawn blood!

Just a little. But it hurt. And Mrsha was suddenly furious. Bad rats! She raised a paw and smacked the grey rat. It tried to pull its brother away. She smacked it again. Bad things deserved punishment! Like the Minotaur. She smacked the rat and then the other one as he tried to bite her paw.

This was discipline! She swatted at them, hearing them squeak. Again and again—

Until the [Innkeeper] called her name.



—–



So fell the blows. From above. Light taps from a child. The rats squeaked with each impact. And it was a cute sound, the noise to amuse. To make Gnolls laugh. And in the Gnolls’ story, it was just a cute sound, a little rat’s bite.

But in their story, the rats screamed. Far from home, desperate, they writhed. Their tails were agony. And they screamed as the blows crushed them to the ground, pounding their organs, grinding their bones. They cried out, but they had no language. No words for mercy. There was only now. And now was pain.

No one cared. The Gnolls saw only toys. Lyonette saw only pests. And the rats were rats, tied, screaming. Until the girl known as Erin Solstice came. She looked down and saw what Mrsha held. So paused Erin, and her expression was caught betwixt horror and confusion.

“Mrsha! What are you doing? What have you done?”

Of course, the Gnoll had no words to explain. But she had signs and a voice without. But neither she used. For she was wroth. And her fury came out in a look. The reproach in the child’s eyes that said more than any words. And Erin bent.

“Oh, you heard. I have my reasons, Mrsha. And they are good and right. Even if I am conflicted. Can you understand?”

The child did not want to understand. She swatted a rat, and it screamed in a voice that was comical. But Erin looked down and heard it. She caught the paw before it fell again.

“What are you doing? Why are you doing this? Can’t you see they suffer? They hurt?”

Mrsha looked up blankly. For rats were rats. Why did they have feelings? Erin squatted down, staring at the rats. At the tails. And she shook her head, greatly disturbed.

“But this is wrong, Mrsha, don’t you see? These rats don’t deserve such a fate. Set them free! And untie them first! Animals deserve kindness, the same as people. You should know this.”

Her words stung and bit. The Gnoll child hated to hear them. She would speak for rats, but not Gnollkind. She would save even a Minotaur. For she was too kind. So Mrsha defiantly put a paw on a rat.

“Stop that.”

The young woman’s voice was as sharp as her knife. Mrsha paused, for she had not heard a tone like that. But she looked up and down, and the rats squirmed. They were hers, Raekea had said. So that was that. She lifted the rats up by the tails. It was a simple thing. But she had not considered what it would feel like if someone were to do that to her or a Drake.

The two squirmed. All they knew was pain. The Gnoll who held them yanked defiantly again, and the [Innkeeper] heard the rats scream. Erin’s eyes widened, and she reached. But back Mrsha scampered.

“Mrsha!”

Mrsha lifted the rats triumphantly, in hubris, in vengeance misplaced. And they screamed, a pitiful sound. Mrsha dared Erin. She hated her. She hated the Minotaur. She raised the rats high, squeezing hard because she wanted to hurt him. She wanted to hurt them.

And stopped. Because Erin was staring right at her. And the inn shook.



—–



The [Actors] on stage paused. On the bar, Rufelt’s drinks shook in their tumblers. The guests of the inn looked up. And the weight that pressed down was smothering. The air was hot.

“Put. Them. Down.”

Erin’s voice ran through the inn. It was thunder. It was a shout. Mrsha froze. And her arms lowered. She put the rats down, and they clung to each other, shaking. But no more than Mrsha. Erin stared at the little Gnoll. And her face—Mrsha shook.

One second the pressure was crushing, the next, gone. Erin blinked. She reached out.

“Mrsha—”

The Gnoll fled. She raced upstairs and slammed the door to her room, then pushed a chair in front of the door under the knob. Then she fled under the bed, crying. Afraid. Because she knew Erin was coming. She heard nothing as she hid in a corner, quivering. Nothing from outside. Mrsha heard someone rattle the knob.

“Mrsha? Mrsha, open the door.”

It was Lyonette’s voice. Mrsha didn’t move. She knew she was in trouble. Big trouble. But she was too afraid to open the door. She hid, curling up and trembling. The door knob turned and rattled, and someone pushed. But the door remained closed.

A minute passed. Then two. Mrsha hid. She’d stay here forever. Even if she got hungry. She’d stay and stay, and maybe if she stayed here long enough, Erin wouldn’t be so mad. She stared at the door, trembling.

And then—Erin climbed through the window. She looked around and spotted Mrsha. The Gnoll went still with fear. Then she tried to run for it.

“Stop right there.”

The voice was quiet. Mrsha halted. She couldn’t help it. She turned, shaking, as Erin walked over towards her. She could read nothing on the young woman’s face. Erin paused, standing in front of Mrsha. Her eyes were very terrible. Disappointed. And sad.

Mrsha trembled, expecting a blow. Krshia would spank her. Lyonette had once, too. Erin reached down, and Mrsha flinched. The young woman paused.

“I would never spank you, Mrsha. I could never.”

Then what? Mrsha looked up. She was already crying. And she saw that Erin was angry. As angry as she ever saw. Angry and disappointed and sad. The [Innkeeper] spoke softly as she sat down cross legged.

“That was a bad thing you did, Mrsha. You hurt the rats. Why’d you do it?”

She waited. But Mrsha just looked away. She was crying. And it was frustrating because she didn’t feel bad! They were just rats! But there was Calruz and—and Erin wasn’t going to kill him. Somehow, the [Innkeeper] sensed it all. She moved to look at Mrsha, and the Gnoll turned around again, shaking and sniffing and crying.

“Mrsha. Rats feel pain. They hurt. When you smack them, they hurt. I know they’re pests. And I know what Gnolls do. Raekea told me. And I understand that you didn’t mean any harm. But if I’d seen it earlier, I’d have told you to stop. I’m not angry about that. I’m sad that you started hitting them.”

Mrsha defiantly looked at Erin. So what? They were rats. She was still crying. She wished she wasn’t. But she was sad. Sad and mad. She pointed furiously at Erin, signaling. Erin didn’t understand until Mrsha made a pair of cow horns.

“Oh. Calruz. Mrsha—”

The Gnoll spat. She bared her teeth. Erin waited as Mrsha’s mouth opened and closed. She waited. Then she spoke as Mrsha was panting, shouting without a voice.

“I know. I haven’t forgiven him either.”

Mrsha paused. Erin stood up. She sat on the bed. She looked at Mrsha, and her eyes were sad. And bleak. She smelled of anger.

“I haven’t forgiven him. I know he took you. I know he took Elirr and he killed the others. I know. I remember. I haven’t visited. I haven’t forgiven him. But he might be innocent. It might not be his fault. That’s what Ceria says. But she could be wrong.”

She paused.

“And if she is, he’ll die. But it will be quick. That’s how the law works here. Back home, we’d keep him in prison until he died. Multiple life sentences perhaps. But that’s home. I don’t know which is meaner. But that’s Calruz. Those rats are different. And the same.”

They were not. Mrsha rubbed at her wet eyes. She shook her head. Erin looked down at her.

“Mrsha—Mrsha—listen to me—”

Mrsha just shook her head. She didn’t want to hear. She went to a corner and sat in it, still crying. Erin sighed. She looked at the little Gnoll curled up. And she stood up and approached Mrsha. She paused there. Then she bent.

And she hugged Mrsha. She grasped the Gnoll child softly and lifted her up. Mrsha tensed. But all Erin did was hug her softly.

“I’m sorry.”

She hugged Mrsha. That hurt more than any spanking Krshia had ever given her. When Mrsha looked up and saw the tears in Erin’s eyes, it was all the worse.

“I know you’re sad. And mad. Listen to me. I’m sad too. The rats are one thing. Calruz the other. But listen, Mrsha. One is like the other. Because both are weak. I know Calruz did horrible things. But he’s in a cage. And the rats are small. They can’t do anything. If you hurt them, if you tie their tails together, that’s bad. I know you didn’t know. But I’m telling you. It’s not okay.”

Mrsha pushed at Erin’s chest weakly. She didn’t want to hear it. Erin went on, holding her.

“You’re a good girl. I know that. And I know it’s different for Gnolls. I know that in this world, you don’t see animals like that. But listen. What would you say if you heard a dog make that sound? Can a dog feel? Can a dog cry?”

Mrsha buried her head in Erin’s shirt. She knew a dog could yelp and cry. But rats were different. Erin held her.

“What’s the difference between a dog and a rat? Between you and me? They hurt, Mrsha. They hurt. A Goblin hurts. I hurt. It wasn’t good to do that. Okay?”

But they were rats. And he was a Minotaur. Mrsha couldn’t say either. She clung to Erin’s shirt, wiping her eyes and nose on it. And Erin hugged Mrsha. She looked so sad. She was crying too, and it hurt Mrsha like a knife. Sometimes she shone too brightly and with such goodness that it hurt.



—–



When she came below, a dozen Gnolls were ready to argue Mrsha’s case. They were mad at Erin for shouting, and Lyonette was angry too. But Erin met them all with Mrsha in her arms. And she said the same thing.

“A rat feels pain. And to hurt it is a shame.”

The Gnolls scoffed and laughed or disputed the case. But they fell silent when Elirr the [Beast Trainer] showed his face. The Gnoll listened and looked at the little rats lying on the ground. They squeaked in terror and fled when he reached down.

The others laughed. But the Gnoll lifted the two, and they looked up in fear and pain. When he opened his eyes and stared about, there was anger plain. He spoke like this to the others as he gently held the rats. And they looked up and felt his connection with them as he gently untied them and fed them a snack.

“Who says rats have no feelings? Who laughs? I have seen children throw a rat. And they laugh when it goes splat. But I’ll tell you this for a fact. Rats are animals, and they’re all the same. They have wills and feelings, if not thought like us. Yet the largest dog is still a pet. And be it dog or cat or rat, they deserve respect and dignity. Until you learn that, you and all the others are banned from my shop, Mrsha who is dear to me.”

He looked sternly at the child who clung to the [Innkeeper] and cried. But it was the [Princess] who took her and glared into the [Beast Trainer]’s eyes.

“She had no idea. Don’t you dare lecture her! She did not know. And they’re just rats. I’d kill them and go.”

She pointed at the rats, and Erin argued and Elirr snapped and the Gnolls snapped back. Below, on the table, the two looked up, grey rat and white. They waggled their tails and then took flight. Erin shouted.

“After them! Don’t let them get away! They’re going to the—basement?”

And just like that, a rat dove through a crack. And when the trapdoor opened and they descended below, the Humans and Gnolls recoiled. For the People of the Grain Sack were caught in the light. The [Innkeeper] and guests saw nearly a hundred rats having a snack. From a bunch of stored foodstuffs, perfectly preserved.

So Erin stood in the basement with a hammer, and Lyonette with a bag. They looked at each other, one queasy, one pale. But both could agree: the rats had to die.

“Er. Okay, they’re rats. And they’re a pest. So…let’s smack them with a hammer?”

“By ourselves? Didn’t you say rats deserved our respect?”

The [Princess] was horrified and amused by turns. The Gnoll cub stared around and folded her arms. And Erin threw up her hands.

“I said that! But a pest’s a pest! Now help me kill this stupid nest! They’re eating my stuff! What I said applies. They’re alive. So…kill them quickly so it doesn’t hurt?”

So saying, she tried to raise the hammer and chase a rat. But when it came to splatting one, she couldn’t. So the hammer went to Lyonette, who looked queasy and upset. And Erin turned and looked snide.

“I thought you were on the ‘squish the rats’ side?”

“Well, yes, but it’s one thing to hammer them flat! Why do I have to do it myself?”

“Because they’re just pests. And if they didn’t feel a thing, why do you feel bad? Because it’s gross? Or because you think that when they scream, they scream?”

The two began to quarrel as Mrsha sat on the ground and sobbed. Lyonette glared and pointed at the rats.

“And if rats could speak, would you save them from the world? If rats could weep, would you say they were like Goblins?”

Erin had no answer to that. And so the [Princess] threw down her hammer, and a rat went splat. The two stared at it, and they heard a rat scream. It wailed and shrieked, and they both turned green. And there was a great wailing and gnashing of teeth, none of which Mrsha took part in. Until a Hobgoblin came down the basement steps. He stared at the two young women crying over the dead corpse of a rat and the bloody hammer. Numbtongue paused. Then he pointed and asked.

“Are you making rat soup?”

The Hobgoblin listened as Erin told him rats could feel pain. And Lyonette and the Gnolls disputed that they should feel shame. In the end, Numbtongue pointed at the rat. It was screaming, and the Goblin snapped its neck with one foot. He looked up and at Elirr.

“It feels pain, just like you or me. But it is not like you or me.”

He looked at Erin and Lyonette and Mrsha too. And she asked him if a Goblin was like a rat. The Hobgoblin paused and stared down at the ground. He shrugged.

“Rats are not Human or Goblin or anything but rats. When one talks, I’ll think about it. But I know this: when you kill something, you kill it fast. And here’s a plague.”

He pointed. All said that was true. The People of the Grain Sack poked their heads out of every space, and Erin shuddered. She looked at the hammer and then at Lyonette. Then she poked her head out of the basement and shouted.

“Ishkr! My favorite employee!”

The Gnoll with prescience instantly looked up and shook his head. Drassi hid, but Ishkr just spoke with a common-Gnoll’s wisdom.

“No. Miss Erin, you have money. Use that and not us. For if we scramble and swear and run about, the rats will escape, and we will all be upset. But now, in Liscor, the city, there are plenty of ways. [Exterminators] and [Hunters], and do you know what else? Honored Elirr trains the best ratters, both dogs and cats.”

And all eyes turned to Elirr, and the old [Beast Trainer] sighed. But they were pests. So he went and called for his dogs as Erin picked up the white rat and grey rat that Mrsha held in her paws. She stared at them, and Numbtongue lifted the hammer. But Erin protested, and so the two were saved.

From tragedy to grief. The two shuddered at the blood. And the People of the Grain Sack saw their kindred being taken upstairs, into the light, by the titans. They did not protest and instead hid, thinking themselves safe. Until they heard the barking, meows, and the click of ivory on wood.

Then the People of the Grain Sack knew the last age had come, and they took to flight. But down poured a multitude of beasts, led by a Gnoll who spoke of peace. And he meant every word. To kill a rat was one thing. To torture it, sheer cruelty. The People of the Grain Sack screamed and fled either way.

And lo, there was great lamentation and terror. Beasts of fang and tooth, made larger or smarter by a [Beast Trainer]’s craft, fell upon the basement, pouncing, biting, and tearing. The People of the Grain Sack fled into every cranny and hole. To no avail.

Not one of four generations survived. They died in the basement, and Erin poked her head in and decided it needed a wash. Poor Ishkr got that job. For overtime pay and triple the hour. He sighed and got to work as the ratters washed their whiskers and gleefully filled their bellies.

The Goblin watched it all. Did he think of his kindred in that moment? Or of the death of Goblins played out a hundred ways in a hundred times? Did he see kinship between the rats and he as they fled from the predators that toyed and killed indiscriminately?

No. They were rats. But privately, the Hobgoblin thought it would have been kinder to use a hammer and make them go splat rather than use a bunch of dogs and cats.



—–



So ended a people. In terror and fear. And the last of the rats quivered in Mrsha’s paws. The Gnoll stared down and felt them shake. And they were an echo of her. It made her fear Erin was right.

It couldn’t be. But it was. The [Druid] saw Elirr’s face. The Gnoll wasn't bothered by the death of all the rats in the basement. He’d been angrier when he saw the two rats tied together. Now he just seemed miffed as a cat tried to crawl up one leg. He shooed it off.

“You stupid cats! That hurts! Climb somewhere else!”

Half the cats licking their bloody paws looked up. And all of them decided to flip their tails up and show their butts to the [Beast Trainer]. He glared.

“I hate training cats.”

But that was a lie, wasn’t it? One of the ones adults told. Mrsha turned to Elirr. And he gazed down at her. She sniveled. Her nose was still running. He bent down. Lyonette was giving him a death’s glare. The Gnoll ignored it as he bent down to the Gnoll cub.

“Oh, little Mrsha. I know I was harsh. But I mean it. You can feel them, can’t you? You know they hurt. It’s unkind. But Plains Gnolls are often unkind. That’s how we have to be. We kill Corusdeer or cows or even, yes, cats! You hear that, you fleabags?”

He shouted at the cats, and they scattered, yowling, as Ishkr glumly mopped up the bloody basement and rat corpses. Elirr spoke to Mrsha.

“The difference is that, if we have any decency, we do it quick. Have you ever seen a [Hunter] letting an animal bleed out? Or stabbing an animal and letting it die slow? Those are monsters.”

Mrsha shivered. She could picture that. She tearfully stared down at the rats. Did that make her one? Elirr shook his head.

“No. No. You didn’t know. But remember it, child. I do. And perhaps other Gnolls should too.”

He glanced around sternly, and Erin nodded. Raekea and some of the Gnolls from Liscor glared back. One threw up his paws.

“They’re rats, Elirr. Dead gods! Rats! All of you are making a big fuss over rats when it was the Minotaur who—”

He paused. Elirr’s eyes glinted.

“Yes. Tell me all about what the Minotaur did. I haven’t heard that one. And surely I do not know good from evil, yes? Tell me, Kelc. Tell me all about the Minotaur.”

The Gnoll fell silent. Elirr straightened, rubbing his back. One of his huge war dogs trotted over and dropped a rat at his feet. The Gnoll blinked down at it and bent to rub the dog’s ears. In her paws, Mrsha saw the rats wriggling in agitation, squeaking, no, screaming in their language.

And Mrsha, the [Druid], wondered what it was like for them. To see their entire family, their tribe, slaughtered in front of them. If they were Gnolls…

The world swam. The little Gnoll listened to the rats as they shrieked. If they were Gnolls—the white one was biting at her. And she saw a little Gnoll biting at a Runner. On a field of falling snow.

Mrsha dropped the rats. Elirr snatched the dog’s collar before it could grab them. Numbtongue bent and snatched the rats up casually before they could escape.

“Mrsha!”

Erin was scolding. But she stopped when she saw Mrsha’s face. The little Gnoll put her hands on her stomach and threw up. Then she began crying again.



—–



That night, the Minotaur looked up. He saw the [Guards]. More than just them. Gnolls and Drakes. More Gnolls than Drakes, but both of each species.

They did not hold the blunt end of spears this time. This time, they carried pokers. The kind you’d use to tend to a fireplace. Long blades. And coals.

“Are you afraid, monster?”

The Gnoll with the pale stripe across his face held up a glowing poker. One of the Drakes was a [Mage]. Calruz looked at it. Then he closed his eyes. When he opened them, he addressed the crowd.

“Remember your honor. Do what you will with me. But remember your honor.”

They hissed and growled at that. They would have roared, but they were not supposed to be here. So instead their hatred made them quiet. When the first burning poker came through the cell’s walls, Calruz stared at it. He did not move.

And he tried. He tried, with a [Warrior]’s discipline, with all his strength, to make no sound. His flesh burnt. But when it began to turn black, he groaned. That only encouraged them. They crowded around his cell, faces twisted, egging each other on. Shouting. Forgetting to be quiet.

The Minotaur held still. Until he couldn’t help himself and retreated. But they hounded him, attaching the pokers to long poles, hurling spells.

He began to bellow in agony. Then scream. And the little Gnoll covered her ears as she listened outside the dungeon. She looked up at Tkrn, and the Gnoll’s face was pale. She waited for him to call it ‘justice’, but he couldn’t.

So Mrsha fled, for there was no justice there. Only bad deeds and hate.



—–



Mrsha did not sleep that night. Even after she snuck back into Lyonette’s room where the exhausted [Princess] was passed out. She could not shake the memory of the Minotaur’s screams out of her head. And when she looked at the little cage and the two rats, she began shaking.

It was not right. Perhaps some part of her had known that. Or maybe it was Erin telling her. But it was not right. If she could go back, Mrsha would have used her [Thorn Paw] spell and cut Calruz apart. If she were in the dungeon. If the Raskghar were there.

But now? She looked into the cage, and the two rats fled from her, squeaking. Crying. And Mrsha felt like they were Calruz. What had Erin said? It wasn’t right. Because they could cry. Because they could scream.

But who could she tell? Krshia? Elirr? Lyonette? Erin? Mrsha thought about each one as she sat in front of the cage. Which ones would get the Gnolls and Drakes in trouble most? Least? Because there was something else at stake.

They were her people. Raekea had said it. Mrsha was a Gnoll. She had called Mrsha one of her own. The Silverfang Tribe might take her in. But would she if Mrsha told? If she—Mrsha stared down at the two rats. Their tails were still bent, even though Erin had given them a drop of healing potion each.

Somewhere out there, a Minotaur was screaming. And it had been bad when they started. It would be worse before the night ended. Mrsha shook in place. She looked at Lyonette sleeping in her bed. Some part of her was still in the prison. And it knew the Gnolls and Drakes hadn’t come there to stop. They were going to do a bad thing. Trembling, Mrsha bent over the cage.



—–



Watch Captain Zevara sat in her office, too furious to work but too annoyed to stop. She was trying to go over the inventory for the City Watch, calculating her budget. But she was still furious over the day’s deliberations. She’d argued with Krshia until she was coughing smoke. And the Gnoll had barely, barely agreed not to call for Calruz’s death.

It made sense. But Zevara was still furious. Lism had whipped up a mob. Zevara had half a mind to check on the Minotaur, but she’d already done that and doubled the guard. The prison had been silent when she’d walked past it this evening. No people loitering about outside.

So the Drake sat. She stared at her quill until the ink was dried. Then she dipped it again. And stared. She was staring at the place to initial the document, knowing she hadn’t actually read it, when she heard the scuffling and the shout from downstairs.

“Hey! What’re you—”

Zevara looked up. She heard light padding and reached for her sword reflexively. Then something rattled the doorknob, pulled rather than pushed; Zevara heard pounding boots coming up the stairs. She inhaled as whoever was behind the door pushed at last—

And a little Gnoll tumbled into the room. Zevara paused as the fire in her lungs built. She stared at Mrsha as the white Gnoll got up. Zevara’s head swiveled—she turned, grabbed the window, and exhaled. A plume of fire lit up the sky as she spat it out of the window. Then she whirled as the [Guardswoman] on desk duty burst into the office.

“I’m sorry, Watch Captain. I couldn’t stop—”

“It’s fine. But what the hell—”

Zevara began to snap and caught herself. She stared down at the white Gnoll and began to grow alarmed. The little Gnoll was panting, and her eyes were wide. She’d run here. Zevara’s mind instantly ran to her worst fears.

“Something’s happened at the inn. Sound the alarm! Get Relc, Klbkch, put every [Guardsman] on the walls and get me a squad—”

She paused. The Gnoll cub was shaking her head rapidly. Part of the alarm faded. Zevara stared, and the [Guardswoman] hesitated.

“Should I—?”

“Is there a problem at the inn? Err—Mrsha, isn’t it?”

Zevara looked down, trying to remember the little Gnoll’s name. Her fur was beautifully white. She shook her head rapidly. But her wide eyes told Zevara something was wrong. But she didn’t say what it was. Instead, she began making a bunch of strange signs with her paws.

“What? What? What’s the problem? Come out with it already!”

The Watch Captain snapped as she tried to make sense of the signs. The [Guardswoman] stared too, but she knew a bit more than her Captain.

“It’s, uh, I think she’s mute, Watch Captain.”

“She is? Damn. I forgot—okay. What’s the problem. Is it the inn?”

Zevara stared at Mrsha. The Gnoll shook her head. She pointed; Zevara saw her bridge her arms like a wall. Then two arms up? Poking? A contorted face? Two paws over her head? The Gnoll kept doing that symbol.

“I have no idea what you mean. Someone’s hurt? Where? Who? Damn it—can you write? Here—”

“She’s only a child, Watch Captain.”

“I know that! Go stand watch and tell someone to check the inn for fire or monsters or something!”

Zevara snapped at the [Guardswoman]. She stared. Mrsha was running about, frantic. She kept making the same symbol. Two paws, curved over her ears. Zevara frowned. There was something familiar about—

Horns. The Drake’s eyes widened. She looked at Mrsha’s desperate expression. And her mind leapt to the worst conclusion, the right one, at once.

“Calruz? What’s happening?”

She watched the pantomime. Then she charged past Mrsha, leapt down the stairs, and shouted the alarm.



—–



At some point, he’d stopped feeling pain. He could still see it. Still feel the prodding. And then the retort, the snap of an arrow. They’d progressed from burning. He was only glad the child hadn’t been here to see it.

He laughed as they killed him. Bit by bit. Slowly. It only made them angrier. More vicious. He would have stopped it if he could. Ended it himself. But he wasn’t sure. What was worse, far worse, was seeing the look in their eyes.

It reminded him of the Raskghar. A vicious glee. No—on some it was just pure hatred. He deserved that. But some hadn’t come for vengeance. Or if they had, it had turned too vicarious. Too…he saw them aiming, arguing.

“Too far! Enough!”

A Gnoll [Guardsman] and some of them were arguing with the Gnoll with the stripe. They were split as they pointed to Calruz. He was lying down by now. They’d healed him four times, but—he could have told them that a healing potion couldn’t heal forever. Eventually, the body broke first.

“Enough? Enough?”

The Gnoll was shouting. He had a spear, and Calruz knew it was meant for him. The Gnoll had never intended to leave him alive. The instant he’d walked into the prison, Calruz had been sure today would be his last. He was only glad the child wasn’t there.

This was how he died. Without honor. Not in battle or surrounded by friends or family. In a dark cell. It was fitting. But bitter. The Minotaur waited as the Gnolls fought. Then the spear was raised. He sat up; a Minotaur should die on his feet, but they’d stopped working. He saw the [Guardsman] raise the spear—and then turn.

Sound was gone. But Calruz saw him react. Turn, snarling. Then—a flash of white. A little Gnoll cub tackled him, and a thorn protruding from her paw stabbed into his leg. He howled—then flames ripped down the prison. The white Gnoll child fled, and the Drakes and Gnolls fled, some rolling to extinguish the flames.

Calruz sighed as he saw the Drake stalk forwards, full of honor, as the Gnoll whirled to face her, snarling. Because he knew he wouldn’t die yet.



—–



She saluted them as she walked. Flames coated her every word. Fire of justice. Fire of rage. The other criminals drew back, but the Gnoll stayed. Blood ran from the wound and coated his fur. But he spat fury back.

“Leave us be, Watch Captain! Leave us to justice! Leave me to vengeance! Turn away!”

The little Gnoll saw the Drake pause. And her sword extended, glowing with heat as she shook her head.

“Drop your spear, Guardsman Ulkel. For assaulting a prisoner, I am placing you and everyone present under arrest. Come quietly or I will use force. You have one warning.”

“You love that monster more than your people.”

The Drake shook her head.

“I love the law most of all. So drop your weapon.”

He never would. And the Drakes and Gnolls in the prison were split. Mrsha quivered as Zevara turned to guard her. A Gnoll moved, and Zevara turned. But it was Tkrn. He saluted her with his spear as he moved to guard Mrsha. And they held a moment.

Traitor. [Guardsman]. Regret and shame and honor grasped at the last moment. So stood child and Gnoll and Watch Captain. She nodded and spun as Ulkel lunged.

No poet would sing of that battle. Brief and short and filled with dishonor. Nor would anyone call it bravery as Mrsha hid behind Tkrn. But perhaps they might spare a word for the Watch Captain.

In the moments before the rest of the Watch arrived, before Lyonette found Mrsha with Erin and the city descended to witness, the Watch Captain fought. She parried a spear thrust, put herself between the Minotaur’s cell and a score. And she slashed and dodged and wove. Faster, more agile than any.

A dozen blades came at her, half-hearted, aimed past her. Each one was knocked down. She even cut an arrow, breathing flame to set the [Archer] alight. She whirled and kicked Ulkel’s legs out from under him. And her sword aimed at his throat.

“[Lawbreaker’s Enemy]. You aren’t [Guards] any longer. Throw down your weapons before I cut you down.”

A dozen blades fell. Gnolls and Drakes wept. And as he lay on the ground, Ulkel’s voice rasped fury. He stared at Zevara. At Calruz. And at the Gnoll cub hiding behind Tkrn. He said only one word.

“Doombringer.”

A curse. A condemnation. Her nature. And the child wept. As the prison filled, as they were led away, the Gnolls looked at her. Traitor to their own. Doombringer. Only the Watch Captain paused. She walked through the Minotaur’s cell as he gasped, the potion healing what could be healed. And she looked at Mrsha.

“Don’t listen to them…kid. They brought this on themselves. No justice was done here. But the law is merciful. But there will be law. So long as I remain.”

The irony was she’d forgotten Mrsha’s name. But it didn’t matter for soon it was shouted and whispered and said in reproach and regret. Gnolls ran into the prison. Krshia and Elirr and Raekea and more. Lyonette and Erin followed, breathless. And the Horns and all but a Hob who stared at a ring of [Guards] who’d arrested him five steps into the city and glared.

“Watch Captain! This is not fair! These Gnolls and Drakes acted out of passion’s sake! For justice, out of respect for their grief, I ask you give them a light sentence! Relief!”

The Gnolls cried for justice and stared at the Minotaur in hate. They argued with voices like thunder and snarls like lightning, coming, going. Mrsha crouched, and her eyes filled with tears. Betrayal.

“Mrsha should have come to us. We could have handled it. This was a tragedy that could have been avoided.”

So said Raekea. Until Lyonette snapped. Lyonette shouted louder than the quarreling voices.

“She did what was right! What was just! What I taught her to do!”

“She is a Gnoll! She is one of us!”

The Gnoll and Human glared at each other. [Armorer] and [Princess]. Lyonette swept up Mrsha in her arms. And it was a hug like no other, warm and fierce.

“She is not yours! How dare you claim her? Where were you when she first came here, when she was lost and afraid? When you judged her by her fur?”

And the Gnolls had no answer. But they looked at Zevara and the Gnolls and Drakes who would fill the very same cells. The [Princess] did not care. She held Mrsha to her and turned.

“Don’t you dare call her yours. Or Plains Gnoll. Or think you can tell me what she is. Because she is mine! My child, and I am her mother! Mine! My daughter!”

She held Mrsha, and the child held her. The prison was silent. But the [Princess] didn’t care. And the little Gnoll looked up. Of course, she knew it was true. Silently, in her heart, it had always been so. But sometimes it needed to be said now and then. That night, the [Princess] said it again and again.

“My daughter, no matter what comes to pass. My daughter, no Gnoll’s child but mine. Mine, no matter your past.”

And that was enough. Enough to make a bittersweet end of it all. In triumph, in tragedy, the Gnoll held her mother.



—–



This was the end of it. As Lyonette carried away Mrsha, who clung to her as if she’d never let go, she glared daggers at Raekea and the other Gnolls. They watched her. Until she’d left, bearing away the Gnoll who was brave. Who was brave enough to do what was right.

Erin stood and looked down at the Minotaur. He was healing. But the marks of—torture—remained. You couldn’t paint over that with fancy words. Burnt skin. Holes in him, poked by spears and blade. She felt sick.

The young woman gazed at the Gnolls. And they were full of hate. At Watch Captain Zevara, her face grim, speaking smoke. At Tkrn, who’d surrendered his spear to Relc.

“Disaster. Disastrous. This could all have been avoided. Look at it! Honest Drakes and Gnolls. And imprisonment? Stripped of their duties for doing what they saw as right? How can we call this justice?”

That came from a Drake sighing and clucking over the entire mess. As if it weren’t his fault. Erin whirled, and Lism glanced away. And it was Olesm’s face she met. Disappointed. Haunted. But not ashamed, per se. Erin ground her teeth together. Yet it was Watch Captain Zevara who paused and looked Lism’s way.

“Shopkeeper Lism. One more word and I will arrest you for this entire ordeal. This was caused by your provocation. Your words.”

Lism opened his mouth to protest. Zevara spat smoke.

“One word.”

He eyed her and closed his mouth. Raekea spat. She still hadn’t had enough. From fury at Mrsha not telling Krshia first to hatred over Calruz, she smoldered with it.

“That doesn’t change what he’s done. Krshia! Are you really going to support keeping him alive?”

“I think I must. Although I see no goodness and rather much foolishness in it.”

The [Shopkeeper] glared at Erin. And Erin glared back. She glared at her friend, who was right and also wrong. If. If there was a chance—

But it was the same argument. The same old dance. Into that conversation, into the silence, stepped a Minotaur. He stood up in his cell. And his fur was burnt away. His blood still fresh.

“I won’t deny my guilt. Kill me and be done with it all. It seems I bring dishonor to everyone I meet.”

The Gnolls jerked, and Lism turned a disbelieving head. Calruz looked around. And his gaze passed from Gnoll to Drake. From hatred to disgust. Then to Erin. And she shuddered. Because she had not visited him either. She could not. Calruz only nodded at her.

He stood then, proudly, the Minotaur in a cage facing Gnolls, Drakes, a half-Elf, and a few Humans.

“I will not run from my crimes. I say execute me and don’t look back. I understand this election is about my guilt. So. Let me say that I will embrace that fate. Do as you will.”

He spread his arm. And all of them, Gnolls, Drakes, Erin, and Zevara, all looked at him. Because they had not expected this. Calruz went on, his eyes burning

“But let me die as a Minotaur dies. Give me a weapon. Any weapon! And give me an honorable death. I will cut my way through the heart of the city in the dungeon or die fighting one of those Rock Crabs. Or—”

He paused. Ceria was there, of course, standing near the back. As soon as she’d heard Calruz’s name, in fact. He looked at her and bowed.

“It would be an honor to die fighting a friend willing to look me in the eye.”

She couldn’t. Not then and there. Yvlon could, and her gaze was stony. Pisces’ was almost sympathetic. Ksmvr was scratching his antennae. The Gnolls growled. Elirr, who had been on Mrsha’s side, had no love for Calruz. He nearly howled as he turned on Calruz, snarling.

“You speak of honor? You? The thing I met leading the Raskghar had none. How dare you demand the way you die now?”

Calruz faced him. And Elirr’s fury washed over the Minotaur’s calm face. His voice. And that quieted Elirr. No—it quieted everyone who was present, Erin included. Because she had been there the day they’d fought the Raskghar. The Minotaur of now was not the savage, wild war chief of the Raskghar of then. Calruz dipped his head.

“I do not demand it, sir. I only ask for it. I am aware it is not my right. But I will say this: the Gnolls and Drakes that sought to kill me this night abandoned their honor. For vengeance, they did it. But if there is one thing I have learned, it is that there is no excuse for anything less than honor. I ask for it now. Not for my sake, but yours.”

His gaze swept the crowd. Lism spat on the ground.

“Then tell me, Minotaur. Do you claim that you didn’t commit those crimes? Lead the Raskghar? Slaughter innocent Gnolls and attack your own team? Because if you’re innocent, why not plead for your life? If you’re guilty, you could do us all a favor and bash your head in against a wall.”

Calruz paused. He replied slowly.

“I remember. And I do not. But I know enough. Sir Drake, I only know how I wish to die. If the city wills it, bring the [Executioner]. Bring a noose. Or simply fill a pit with me inside. Feed me to Shield Spiders. If that would give you peace, do it. Otherwise, let us both remember honor. I forgot mine down there. I will never forget it again.”

He paused. And Lism opened his mouth, closed it, glared. Because Calruz’s words were an echo of his own. Only, the Minotaur said them with an unwavering gaze.

“It doesn’t matter. If magic doesn’t find him guilty, how long do we keep him here? A month? A year? Ten years? How long is enough?”

Raekea snapped at Zevara, and the Watch Captain glared. Erin stepped into that. She turned on the [Armorer].

“Until we’re certain, Raekea. Or is it okay to kill someone if there’s even a sliver of doubt they might be innocent?”

“Even if we know he’s committed the crimes?”

“If someone cast a spell on you, or used a Skill, would it be your fault?”

Ceria snapped back. Raekea inhaled, and Zevara bellowed.

“Enough!”

She looked around the prison. The Watch Captain shook her head.

“It’s late. I’ve heard this debate a thousand times. And I am not certain Calruz is guilty. Until that moment comes, magic or not, public opinion or not, Council or not, I will decide what to do with him. And in this cell he stays. Is that clear?”

She pointed at Lism and Krshia. Both glared in unison. Calruz only sighed.

“I meant what I said. It would be easier for all if I died, Watch Captain.”

He put one hand on the cell. And Erin looked at him. He stared back and shook his head.

“You’d like me to live? After all I’ve done?”

“That’s right. I guess. Hi, Calruz. Long time no see.”

She shoved her hands into her pockets. The Minotaur blinked at her. Then he shook his head again.

“How can I make amends, Erin Solstice? For that depravity? For that horror? If I were to hunt down every Raskghar in existence, single-handedly open the dungeon, donate a fortune and a half to those who I murdered—it would not be enough.”

Somewhere behind them, Relc sniggered as he pushed Tkrn into a cell.

“Single-handedly. Good one.”

Klbkch elbowed him hard. No one else laughed. Erin gazed at Calruz. What a mess. What a day. Mrsha, the rats, people torturing Calruz—she turned to Krshia and Lism and shook her head.

“You’re right, Calruz. It isn’t enough. And it won’t be enough, no matter what you do. You—you nearly killed Mrsha. And you killed good people. I haven’t forgiven you.”

He nodded.

“In that case—”

“Shush.”

Erin closed her eyes. She waited, listening to the beating of her own heart. Then she opened her eyes and looked around. At the Gnolls. At her friends. At Lism and Olesm and the others.

“Do you know what I’m going to tell Mrsha when I get back? I’m going to tell her she did a really good job. Really. I don’t care what you say. Any of you. She saw bad things happening to Calruz. And she stopped it. Because a Minotaur is like…a bunch of rats with their tails tied together.”

Calruz stared. His lips moved silently. Zevara, Lism, Olesm—all looked at Erin strangely. The Gnolls growled. They got it. Erin went on.

“He might be evil. He might be innocent. But hurting him because he can’t fight back in a cell is wrong. Sometimes you kill Raskghar. But you don’t torture them or you are the Raskghar. And you know what? Yeah, maybe Mrsha could have gone to Krshia sooner. But guess who didn’t? Tkrn! Ulkel! All the others! And it was the hardest for Mrsha to do. But she did it.”

She glared at Raekea. The Gnoll glared back.

“Do you know what being good is? It’s not doing something you’re supposed to do because it’s easy. It’s doing something you have to do because it’s right. So you know what, Calruz?”

She turned on the Minotaur. He waited. Erin pointed at him, breathing hard.

“There’s no way you’d ever repay your debts, Calruz. Not in life. Or in death. But I think that if you ran away, if you let yourself be killed without trying your whole life to repay people for what you’ve done, that would be the most cowardly thing you ever did. And I think that if people line up to watch you die horribly—that makes them no better than the Raskghar and their sacrifice.”

And that was Erin Solstice. Love her, hate her, as the Minotaur’s eyes widened and he straightened with anger and shame, as the Gnolls turned to stare at her wide-eyed with fury, you had to admit it. Erin knew people.



—–



This was how the tale ended. The important tale, that was. It was with a half-Elf. A day later. The Minotaur still felt his healed wounds. He still bore the marks. Yet neither one talked about it.

“Well, the election’s today.”

“Really?”

Calruz looked up. He had been staring at a basket, a book, and a strange, symmetrical bar and round thing lying on the ground. It was made of metal and heavy when he picked it up. Ceria had pushed them through. The half-Elf shrugged self-consciously.

“Yup.”

“I thought it was later. Or rather, I had the impression it was an ongoing issue.”

“Nope. It was only a week, remember? I guess this was the last big day.”

“And so my fate is part of the election.”

The Minotaur carefully inspected the basket. It was…moving. Ceria smiled, her face pale.

“Maybe. You know, Lism dropped the line about executing you horribly. But he’s shouting about all the rest. So’s Krshia. She told Erin in private that she’d let you live if she was elected.”

“Hm. What’s this object for, Ceria? And the book?”

“Oh. I bought it in the market. It wasn’t much. I think it’s battle tactics or something.”

“The Conquests of Tulm the Mithril, a History. Hrm. It must be new. I haven’t read about him. I know the name, of course. You got it from Pallass.”

The Minotaur picked up the book and opened it awkwardly with his one arm. Ceria smiled faintly.

“I did. I can’t believe I didn’t think to bring them before. Uh—Krshia said—”

“I heard you. What made her change her mind? I cannot imagine the Gnolls would want me to live. Isn’t she taking a risk?”

“Well, yes. She’s betting on Erin’s support. Wild, isn’t it? But I think something else convinced the Gnolls to pass on demanding your execution as part of her winning.”

Calruz looked up from the book and put it down next to his cot. He eyed the basket again.

“Really? Which is?”

“You saying how much you’d rather die than stay in the cell. Uh—the Gnolls thought it would be better to let you live in that case. Some of them, anyways. Fancy that?”

The half-Elf smiled. Calruz stared at her. Then he guffawed.

“That’s what they said?”

He laughed until his still-healing lungs wheezed, and he sat down. He shook his head as Ceria stared at him.

“Alright. What’s this heavy thing?”

“A dumbell.”

“A what?”

“It’s a weight. Something you lift to build muscle. There’s also a bar with weights—Erin said you need two hands for that, though. She asked me to bring it here.”

“Why? I’m…grateful. It’s an interesting idea. But why?”

Ceria shrugged.

“I don’t know. She didn’t want to come, but she said it was cruel to leave you without anything to do. And apparently, uh, the weights fit a prison? That’s Erin’s logic. Don’t ask me to explain it.”

“Very well. And what’s this?”

At last, the Minotaur shifted his attention to the basket. He opened the lid and recoiled. Ceria grinned at his expression.

“That’s a…problem from the inn. Lyonette decided they weren’t allowed there, and we had no idea what to do. If we threw them out, they’d probably come back to the inn. So it was Mrsha—”

“The Gnoll child?”

Calruz glanced up, and an expression of pain crossed his face. Ceria nodded, losing her smile.

“Yeah. Her. She wanted to give them to you.”

“Me?”

The Minotaur stared down at the two little rats moving around the padded basket. One nibbled at a bit of cheese. The other looked up and inspected him warily. What new fate was this? What hell of tortures, what odyssey of strange lands?

Nothing, for once. The Minotaur spoke a bit more with the half-Elf casually. Awaiting his fate if it came to pass. Then he looked down. And the rats stared up at him, and he stared back. They flinched as he moved. But the hand that had caused so much grief, the hand which had lost and then grabbed for honor, the hand scarred and worn and gentle, reached down.

And the rats nibbled at it, then climbed up it as it didn’t move. Calruz lifted them up. One white, one grey. The lonely Minotaur breathed out. He stared at his companions and nodded. With a slow, careful touch, he stroked each’s head with a finger and pointed at the white one first.

“You shall be Haldagaz, Vanquisher of Foes. And you will be Rhata, Trident-Guardian of the Harbor of Hammerad.”

That was all. The Minotaur lay back. And he smiled.



—–



Erin Solstice lay back too. As she waited for the results of her election, she lay on the floor of Bird’s tower. It was empty. In the distance, Liscor voted. Below, a little Gnoll followed her mother around. And that was a good thing.

But the rest wasn’t. Erin thought of rats.

“That was Mrsha growing up.”

She thought of Calruz.

“If Lism wins, what do I do?”

And then she thought of Mrsha running to Zevara. Instead of running to her. And risking her neck. No—learning a spell from Moore. Erin frowned up at the sky.

“How many times is it so far? She just…gets into trouble. What can we do? Get Numbtongue to guard her every hour of the day? Lock her in the inn?”

The sky didn’t answer. A Razorbeak flew overhead, cementing Erin’s point. She stared at the giant bird. And she thought of Goblins.

“Someday, it’ll happen again. There’ll be Rags. Or another Headscratcher. Or…they’ll die. The Raskghar might return.”

The sky made no response. Erin rolled over. She poked her inn.

“You know, I’m close. I can feel it. I’ve had a full inn every day. And this is my inn. So…this is my problem. I want a better door, alright? So it can teleport whenever! But Mrsha—keeping her safe’s more important. Her and everyone else.”

There was no response. Erin frowned. She tried again, speaking, really speaking. To the inn? Herself?

“Hey. Inn. On my next level up, I want you to do something to protect them, alright? Mrsha. Goblins. Me too, I guess. Give me the power to save them from anything bad. Can you do that?”

No response. Erin drowsily stared up at the sky.

“Yeah. Next time…”

She yawned. Closed her eyes as Liscor decided its fate. And Erin’s head lolled back. And she slept—



[Magical Innkeeper Level 39!]



She waited.

“…And? And? And?”

Erin sat up. She yawned, glared around blearily, and then smacked the floorboards.

“Level 40, then. But it had better be good. Time to grind some exp!”

She made to get up and lay back on the floor. Erin stared up at the blue sky. And in a place with no sky and little light, a pair of rats crawled around their new home. They were as happy as could be.





Interlude – Rufelt


Embarrassingly, after two shots, Rufelt lost his balance and nearly toppled over behind the bar. He couldn’t remember the last time that had happened, but the black, faintly savory alcohol was so potent that even his intense tolerance to alcohol couldn’t keep up. And while he could have turned his [Immunity: Alcohol] Skill on, what self-respecting [Bartender] would do that for a drink?

It still knocked him completely off-balance. Rufelt stumbled, and she caught him. He looked at the Drake, Lasica. His wife. She laughed.

“Rufelt! You’re falling over after two shots? And you call yourself a high-level [Bartender]?”

“I—hey. It’s strong.”

He weakly mumbled. But that wasn’t really an excuse. Lasica rested her head against his shoulder. He leaned against her while the world spun.

“Mm. Thank you.”

She only smiled.

“I haven’t seen you do that in years. Not since we went to your father’s funeral.”

He smiled bitterly, remembering that day. The Gnoll rubbed at his dark fur, mussing up the neatly-combed appearance he normally kept while tending to his bar. Then he looked at Lasica and smiled.

“And you caught me then as well. You have a knack for that.”

“Well, that’s why I married you. Steady. Do you have your feet?”

He nodded. But the two leaned on each other for a moment longer. There was nothing more comfortable in this world, after all. They only separated after hearing the quiet, precise cough at the bar. Then Rufelt looked up, grinning. He nodded at the Antinium, and his hair only rose a bit as Klbkch the Slayer glanced at him.

But a [Bartender] didn’t show their emotions. And his Skills gave Rufelt an amiable façade he could hide behind. No—more than that, the Antinium were fascinating. Even if this one was a legend, a nightmare for anyone who’d lived in a Walled City and remembered the Antinium Wars.

But see—he spoke. He acted so normal. So polite and reserved, in fact. Klbkch the Slayer nodded and opened his mandibles as Rufelt eyed the dark, foamy liquid in the shot glass.

“What is your verdict, [Bartender] Rufelt? I take it the potency of the brew is to your satisfaction?”

“I don’t know if I’d say that. Rather, it’s alarmingly strong. Too strong, perhaps.”

Rufelt cautiously felt at the top of his mouth with his tongue. It had gone slightly numb. Klbkch tilted his head.

“I see. I adjusted the formula based on the last feedback I received. It is still too strong?”

“Still…? You mean, it was stronger than that?”

Lasica’s brows shot up as she leaned against the bar. Rufelt wondered who’d died in the first trial run. He sighed as he tapped the liquid in the glass.

“What did you call this? Rxlvn? Frankly, it’s too strong for me to use in many drinks. The purpose of alcohol is to be enjoyed; rarely do I mix something to completely knock someone out. And this is closer to poison than actual alcohol. Uh—is there actual poison in here?”

“Hm. I was under the impression most alcohols were an impairment of some kind. The Workers did add some paralytic elements.”

Rufelt paused as he reached for some water to steady himself.

“…What kind of elements?”

“Mushrooms. Serpent venom. A small dose of Shield Spider venom.”

Lasica looked worried. Rufelt just considered this.

“Maybe ease off the serpent venom. That’s probably why I feel like passing out under the bar. But I could see selling the actual drink. It’s quite savory, actually.”

“That was the intent. Along with the addition of other unique elements in order to create a drink unlike any other. I will see to removing the venom and reducing the strength again. Now, how would you price such a drink?”

“Well…given that the Antinium made it, I somehow doubt it’ll sell well. But if I were putting it out as a curio, I could see…”

Rufelt leaned on his bar as the world slowly stopped trying to turn upside down and carry him with it. Klbkch sat across from him, nodding, taking notes. The Wandering Inn bustled around the two as Lasica took two sips from the Rxlvn and promptly decided that was enough.

“I’ll keep it with my other alcohols today. But I can’t promise I’ll sell much of it. Or any. I will let you know how I do, Guardsman Klbkch.”

The Antinium nodded as Rufelt carefully placed the…container of Rxlvn on the shelf behind him. Rufelt had set up this morning, and the bright and colorful jars and containers were attracting a lot of attention from the inn’s guests. Klbkch stepped back.

“I appreciate your feedback, [Bartender] Rufelt. I must return to my duties, but I will attempt to return by sundown for your opinions. Farewell.”

He walked out of the inn, and Lasica let out the small breath she’d been holding.

“Ancestors, he makes my tail twitch. Klbkch the Slayer. Can you imagine it?”

“I don’t need to.”

Rufelt busied himself behind the bar. It was early for drinks, but he had a feeling he’d be in business soon. Lasica blinked at the door, then shifted her attention to him. She frowned as he put his specialized mugs and cups and various glasses—from shot glasses to specialized drinking vessels designed for smoky drinks, or ones on fire—in a row behind him. She sighed.

“Did you bring half the bar with you? You know we’re giving Erin too much help. Especially you, Rufelt.”

The Gnoll grinned apologetically as he ran his paw across the counter.

“I can’t help it. I see a bar counter, and I have to do something. Especially with a crowd like this! Humor me? Besides, Erin’s given us all the profits I make.”

Lasica rolled her eyes, but she gave in without much fuss. She knew her husband, after all.

“Oh, very well. Just remember you’re putting more people in her seats. Don’t work too hard! We have to open tomorrow.”

“I know. Don’t worry, love. Have fun with Erin in the kitchens! Please don’t tease her too much. Or tire yourself.”

She snorted gently and patted Rufelt’s arm before walking across the bar. Like that, Rufelt got to work. He was, after all, a [Bartender]. And in his bar, or The Wandering Inn, he could ply his trade.

It was simple. Simple and complex. Because a [Bartender] served drinks, and that was one thing. People could ask for something simple, like a mug of ale, and he could fill and pass out a tankard almost before the thirsty Drake had finished talking.

But sometimes a [Bartender] was there to listen or deal with a tricky customer. Of course, sometimes they were just drink-machines, and Rufelt certainly did pour thirty-eight drinks, mostly ales, to the inn’s patrons. A few wines, one stronger spirit too. And then his first notable customer sniffed and leaned on the bar counter.

“Excuse me, [Bartender]. But am I to understand you are a high-level member of your class? The co-owner of the famous Pallassian bar, Tails and Scales, if I am not misinformed.”

Rufelt blinked at the young man in a white robe with an arch expression. He felt like he’d seen him around.

“That would be me. Rufelt, [Bartender]. Reasonably high-level, I suppose. Can I help you, sir?”

“Perhaps. I would like to inquire—among your beverages, do you have anything truly exemplary? I ask only as a connoisseur of good taste.”

The Gnoll took a moment to process this.

“I have any number of drinks. I can find something for you, but do you have a preference? I warn you, some of the drinks can get expensive. Although I’m sure you’re good for it.”

In fact, Rufelt knew that the young man was. That was another [Bartender] trick. The young man sniffed again, and Rufelt remembered. Erin had warned him about a sniffing [Necromancer]. He’d been picturing a Gnoll. Warily, Rufelt eyed Pisces, but again, the mask of friendliness was in place.

“Money is, of course, no object. I’m merely inquiring as to your purview of drinks. I have had a number of supposedly excellent beverages that amounted to no more than a cheap trick. Whilst I wouldn’t object to considered and tasteful entertainment, I’m sure you’d agree that the substance of a libation is more important than presentation, would you not?”

Sometimes you got customers like this. Rufelt took his time in replying as he polished a glass, which was mainly a tic he liked to do for fun because it made him look busy.

“I happen to agree. And as I said, I have a number of drinks available. Would you like a list or for me to select one?”

Pisces paused, frowning. Before he could reply, a Drake with light green scales took a seat next to him. She rolled her eyes.

“Pisces, stop bothering the [Bartender] and just ask for a drink. Dead gods, but you can’t go anywhere without bothering someone, can you? Just admit you don’t know what drink you want. I’m sure the [Bartender] can figure out what you want.”

The [Necromancer] colored and turned. Rufelt was amused to see the young Drake get under the Human’s skin so fast. He remembered her too; she’d been with Krshia. Her name was…

“Selys, I’m quite aware of any number of drinks. I am simply trying to make conversation with, ah, Master Rufelt about the best sort of drink he has to offer. Is it not lazy to ask the [Bartender]’s choice? Educating oneself about the selection of liquor is a mark of culture.”

“Or being pretentious. [Bartender] Rufelt, is it? What’ve you got? And do you do tricks? Hi, I’m Selys. I think we met. I’m a [Receptionist]—er, I mean [Heiress].”

The Drake waved at Rufelt. He smiled and nodded to the selection behind him.

“It’s quite simple, Miss Selys, Mister Pisces. If you want a good drink, I can make you a good drink. If you want tricks—I can give you a flaming drink, make one that floats—but I’m not pouring ten drinks at once while hopping on one foot and playing a trumpet. Aside from that, fancy presentation, substance over style—it depends on what you order, but I can guess for you. I’m fairly good at that.”

The Drake and Human exchanged a glance. Pisces shrugged.

“Well then, by all means, what would you recommend for me? I am in the mood for some considered drinking, but of course, the hour is early—”

He paused as Rufelt immediately turned around and got to work. The other trick with people like the self-styled connoisseur of a [Necromancer] was to give them what they wanted, not what they asked for. Which was why the deep amber drink was at first plain—until Rufelt added in a swirling, palely fluorescent green drink and mixed the rest with a large, fresh leaf of mint.

The drink swirled as both Drake and Human blinked at it. Rufelt smiled as he slid it across the counter with a flourish.

“Here. Try this.”

Pisces did. At first, the strong drink had him frowning, ready to critique, but as the swirling motes of green liquid mixed into his sip, his expression became approving. He lowered the glass.

“A magical draught?”

Rufelt nodded.

“It’s meant to give you energy. I worked with Xif to use the basis of a stamina potion and added some pick-me-up elements. This is a variant of that recipe for [Mages].”

“So I note. Hm.”

Pisces flicked his fingers, and a shower of multicolored sparks landed and bounced off the bar counter. Rufelt sighed. [Mages]. They loved to damage the woodwork. But Pisces was nodding, and Selys, clearly impressed, leaned forwards.

“Let me have a sip, Pisces. I’ll have what you recommend too, Mister Rufelt!”

She took the glass and sipped, ignoring Pisces’ objections. She didn’t like Pisces’ drink as much as Pisces, but he could have told her that. Her drink was more sweet, and the pale pink color was mostly clear, but he’d mixed in a few colorless drops that Pisces noted.

Selys didn’t, and when she took her drink and sipped it, she was at first pleased, then very pleased. She sat back, laughing in delight, beaming.

“Whoo! That feels nice! As good as—but what did you put in this?”

She caught herself, sipping greedily. Pisces reached for the drink, and Selys slapped his hand away. She only gave him a sip after two more gulps. Rufelt waited until she’d put down the cup before replying.

“Hanging flesh-eater caterpillar venom.”

Selys choked. Pisces paused, mid-sip. He looked at Rufelt.

“Are they unnamed, or is that the actual name of the creature in question?”

The Gnoll shrugged.

“I don’t know the exact name, but that’s what they are. Apparently, the venom makes their prey so relaxed they don’t notice the caterpillars dropping on them and eating them. Don’t worry; there’s only a mild dose in that drink.”

Selys looked uneasy, but after Pisces handed the drink back, she took a small sip and smiled.

“Hey! It’s good! I wish you hadn’t told me what was in it, but I asked. Thanks for the drink. How much do I owe you? And, uh—do you have any suggestions for what to eat with it?”

“I like a few slices of cheese myself. I don’t know why, but most people do. It might be the venom.”

“Huh. You know, I want cheese too. Hey! Ishkr!”

Selys turned as she fumbled with her belt pouch. She lingered at the bar as she was served some local cheese on a plate. Pisces levitated a piece over to him, and Selys jabbed him with a claw as Rufelt went to pass some less expensive drinks out to a crowd of Garuda who’d come from Pallass.

Now, Garuda were lightweights. They liked fruit drinks mostly—birds—but some, like Bevussa, loved the more potent Drake favorites, having been raised in Pallass by Drakes herself. You had to know your guests. When Rufelt came back, he found Pisces and Selys were chatting. It was an unusual pairing, but the [Bartender] had seen far stranger. Pisces sniffed as he chewed on a piece of cheese.

“I have noticed your enduring campaign. I simply haven’t taken an active role. I am, after all, an outsider to Liscor’s politics.”

“Yes, but you could have helped. In fact, you did help Olesm! I heard you went into Pallass to help him write that stupid chess letter! Do you know how much that affected Lism’s campaign?”

The [Necromancer] looked apologetic.

“In my defense, I was unaware of Olesm’s intent to involve himself in the election. That was a wholly unrelated issue.”

“Yeah, well, I didn’t see you helping Krshia. Or me. Where was the handy, know-it-all [Necromancer] when I could have used someone arguing against Olesm and Lism?”

Selys glowered. Pisces pretended to be fascinated with the play going on stage. At last, he coughed and turned back to Selys.

“I apologize, Selys. I didn’t think my involvement would be that—welcome, given the Gnoll campaign. If it matters, I would imagine Miss Silverfang has a good chance of seizing victory. And I do believe at least two of your candidates will win in other districts. Based on pure observation, it seems incredibly doubtful that Elirr or [Armorer] Raekea would lose.”

“You think so?”

Selys looked up eagerly. So did Rufelt—he had a paw in this election after all. Pisces nodded, sipping from his drink and straightening in his chair.

“I did survey the streets discreetly—”

“You mean invisibly.”

“—discreetly the last few days. Given the general distributions of the districts in the election, both Elirr and Miss Raekea occupy Gnoll-heavy districts. And they are substantially popular among Drakes as well; it leads me to be quite certain of their victory. Of course, ironically, Miss Krshia herself has a lower chance in her district. I cannot think what she was intending when she drew up the divisions for each area.”

“She wanted it to be fair. She could have let herself win, but this way each member of the Council will represent a part of the city.”

“Hm. Fair, I suppose. But she could have, ah, excluded the Servail Street and removed, oh, about four hundred Drake voters for instance…”

“But that’s cheating, Pisces.”

“Call it being strategic. For instance, if Miss Krshia had done that, she could have foisted the Drake voters on a district she would have lost—”

“Cheating.”

“But if she had—it’s just a matter of adjusting limits. Surely you’d agree that your presence and funding affected the campaign.”

“Well, the Walled Cities and every Drake with half a gold coin were giving Lism help—”

“My point stands. If you wanted a fair election, the presence of money in any form wouldn’t be germane to conducting a fair election. As it stands, I’m just offering a suggestion that if taken…”

“[Barkeep]! Can I get some wine?”

Rufelt looked up, passed some high-quality wine from his stocks to the Gnoll waving at him, and then had to do a bunch of refills as the first drinkers came back for something stronger. When he returned, he found the two sitting and discussing something else.

“I haven’t had any reports. And your little Bone Horror rats have killed a number of nests. Not that the current Council asked. But I imagine Olesm would pay you to keep it up another month.”

“Ah yes, they have killed quite a few nests. I understand they ran into difficulties at two points; I recalled them and noticed some battle damage. I believe they ran into Acid Fly nests, but the current iteration of Bone Horrors you suggested are quite nimble.”

Rufelt stared. Bone Horrors? Selys was nodding as if it weren’t even an issue, though. She paused as she sipped at her half-finished drink.

“So they’re doing well. And I hear you sit in your room all day. While this morning I heard Ceria was being boiled in a bathtub to train. So. Out with it. I know you’re dying to tell someone.”

“Ah. Well, if you insist, I could talk about some of my experimentation. It hasn’t all been on Bone Horrors, you know. I’ve more or less solidified their designs. The, ah, Warbear form is most effective. At the moment, I’m experimenting with a hypothetical skeleton soldier build.”

Pisces looked pleased as he attempted to gesture and began to draw in the air. Rufelt stared at the illustrations. Selys just raised a brow.

“Right. You remember what my grandmother told you about using bones of people, right? She’ll stab you.”

The [Necromancer] paused defensively.

“Hypothetical. Although Ksmvr did acquire quite a number of, ah, bodies. They were [Bandits]—I have no intention of summoning them anywhere around Liscor. But given the material, it would be a shame to…”

He broke off as Selys rolled her eyes.

“You know, you could just get to the point without trying to make excuses. You’ve got bodies. Fine. I get it. I’m not going to tell my grandmother unless you bring them into the city. But these ‘hypothetical skeleton soldiers’. What makes them special? Any decent Bronze-rank adventurer can knock down a skeleton in a one-on-one fight.”

“Ah, but not mine. You see, I’m attempting to create a formation of bone—rearrange the ribcage for instance—such that the skeletons would have an inner mechanism they could deploy. Their ribs could shoot outwards for instance, catching an unwary foe unawares.”

“So you get close and they explode at you like some kind of spike trap?”

Selys didn’t look impressed. Rufelt, on the other hand, nearly poured ale all over his paw as he listened with one ear. That sounded horrific. Pisces sounded smug.

“Well, yes. The trick is to inflict the most damage. And I have created quite the efficient design if I say so myself—”

“Hah!”

“I beg your pardon?”

Rufelt eyed Pisces and Selys as he poured a drink for Maughin and Jelaqua each. He handed them to the Dullahan’s body, and it turned around and brought the drinks to the table where Maughin’s head and Jelaqua were sitting. Pisces frowned. Selys just laughed. She waved one claw.

“Oh, Pisces. Really? That’s your best? You did this last time. You have a good idea, but—are all [Necromancers] so lazy?”

“Lazy? I will have you know that this design is inspired. Classic [Necromancers] don’t even think to innovate in this way!”

The Drake rolled her eyes gently and snorted as she took another sip.

“That’s them. I know you. And you can do better. I’m just a humble [Receptionist], but even I know that having trapped skeletons is lazy. It’s just a gimmick.”

“Explain.”

Pisces folded his arms, looking peeved. Selys frowned and began doodling on the bar counter since she couldn’t do what Pisces had done with magic.

“Okay. You surprise a Silver-rank adventurer, and they’re dead. Good for you! The rest of her team will just back up and throw a [Fireball] or use shields. I thought you were trying to get an edge. At Gold-rank, anything you fight will probably just walk away even if your skeletons landed a clean shot. And then they know all the rest are trapped.”

“But I would injure one adventurer—even kill them—”

“One. And if she uses a healing potion, then what? If all your skeletons are the same, Pisces, a surprise attack works once and then never again. Why can’t you make all the skeletons different?”

Pisces sighed.

“The problem is standardizing a design that can be quickly animated in battle. Of course, if I kept a standing army—which I remind you I do not—I could freely innovate at will.”

“I hear you complaining, but all I hear are excuses.”

“Then what would you do? Enlighten me, oh fount of necromantic knowledge.”

The two began bickering as they waved at Rufelt. Selys glared as he slid a drink towards Pisces. She grabbed it, took a swallow, and handed it to him. He looked askance as she stopped her drink with a claw.

“I don’t know. Give them crossbows! Stop being so cheap.”

“Cheap?”

“That’s right! Bone traps in the skeletons? Just buy them armor! That’s what scares even Gold-rank adventurers. Not Draug, but Draug with plate mail. I realize that’s not a [Necromancer]’s solution because it means spending money, but it’d work. Crossbows—do you know how much more dangerous Skeleton Archers are compared to Skeleton Warriors?”

Pisces frowned.

“I take your point. But what if I built a crossbow into the skeletons—”

“You’re so cheap! Is that a requirement for the [Necromancer] class?”

The young man shook his head indignantly, but his eyes had lit up with interest.

“It’s just innovating with material instead of having to spend money on a finite resource—see here, Selys. I do believe you are onto something. If I sacrificed an arm, for instance, or modified my ribcage design to create a propulsion system and used a bone arrow…”

“How? They don’t have sinews. Crossbows need bowstrings and, uh, bending parts. Right?”

“Well, yes. But I could create a projectile weapon—”

“Amazing. Five minutes of talking with me and you have a better idea than you came up with in, what, four weeks of work?”

“One week, and I will have you know that I have been diligently experimenting in other areas. The spike trap was simply one hypothetical—”

“Like what? Don’t be vague or I won’t believe a thing you say. Do you know how many adventurers I have to deal with who talk just like that?”

Pisces turned beet red. Selys stared at him. He took a huge gulp of his drink and snapped.

“Regenerating bone warriors with the ability to jump and run—”

“So, essentially faster skeleton warriors? Fancy.”

Rufelt had to turn his head and stifle a laugh. Selys laughed out loud. She patted Pisces on the shoulder.

“Hey, I’m kidding. Stop pouting! See, that’s practical. Do you know how scary running zombies are to Bronze-rank adventurers? How does that happen, by the way? I thought a [Necromancer] had to be present for that to happen, but you hear stories…”

The [Necromancer] sighed as he adjusted his robes. He looked up and nodded. For all his posturing, he was clearly interested in his subject. Even if it was undead.

“Running zombies? Ah, yes. That would occur in a charged zone. High levels of ambient mana tend to augment the undead and create more dangerous varieties. However, a zombie is still fundamentally weak compared to, say, a Ghoul. If Bronze-rank adventurers are so afraid, they could simply set up a rope at ankle-height and stymie most zombies that way, running or not.”

Selys blinked, impressed. She snapped her claws and looked around for some parchment to scribble on.

“Hey, that’s a good idea. Do you have any tips for fighting Ghouls? Because there are some in the dungeon, and they’re nightmares for lower-level Silver-rank teams to deal with…”

The two stood up and wandered over to a table with the other Horns of Hammerad, still talking. Rufelt watched them go. Undead? That was definitely Erin’s inn. He got back to serving drinks. The inn was gaining in customers now, and he reckoned he’d been at his job for an hour and a half.

The sun was reversing its climb in the sky when a small, white shape wound her way through the crowd. She peered up at Rufelt’s bar as he paused. Of course, he’d heard about yesterday. He blinked down at Mrsha as she stared up at the drinks on display. She climbed onto the stool and looked expectantly up at Rufelt.

Now this was a challenge. But Rufelt had had children in the bar from time to time, and after a moment’s thought, he pulled out a rarely used bottle of liquid and uncorked it. Mrsha sniffed and recoiled a bit as he poured the orange juice—that was not orange juice—into a clear cup.

“Hm. How about a little carrot juice? With a bit of sugar for taste.”

It had absolutely no alcohol. But Mrsha didn’t know that. She sniffed the drink as Rufelt sprinkled some grains of coarse sugar in, and he offered her a small bit of sugar she licked up excitedly. He offered her a stirring rod, and she stirred the drink herself, sniffed again, and took a cautious sip.

Mrsha made a disgusted face. Rufelt grinned. The carrot juice tasted like…carrots. And he could count on one paw the number of people who’d enjoy drinking carrots. But the little Gnoll’s disgusted look was followed by her taking another determined sip. She looked at him, and he nodded.

“Rather tough, isn’t it? I could add more sugar—”

The little Gnoll shook her head. She raised an authoritative paw, and he left her there. She kept sipping determinedly. And she had a satisfied look on her face. This was properly adult, wasn’t it?

She was so concerned with the drink, she didn’t notice Rufelt watching her. Because the [Bartender] was conflicted. Neither said anything about yesterday. Not that Mrsha could. But two Gnolls occupied the bar together. And Rufelt wanted to say something. But…

He knew how to cheer up someone who was worn out by a hard day. He’d helped up ten thousand drunks, salved a hundred thousand broken hearts, soothed a bitter soul, a violent rage—countless ailments and more. But bars had few children in them. He didn’t know what to say, and Mrsha could tell him nothing. He could only guess as the Gnoll girl quietly sipped from her cup.

Mrsha had left Lyonette because the young woman was busy, but Rufelt could see her glancing at Mrsha. If she’d looked up, Lyonette would have been there, or Drassi, Ishkr, Erin, or…but she didn’t. After a while, two more customers came up at the same time.

“Do you have anything that smells good?”

“A carrot juice. Thanks.”

Elirr and Hawk paused they looked at each other, then down at Mrsha. Rufelt raised his brows.

“Hawk. A pleasure. I forgot you lived here.”

“I didn’t expect to see you.”

The Courier leaned one muscled arm over the counter as Rufelt passed him the Rabbit Beastkin’s favorite drink. Carrot juice, seasoned with a shot of rum. For Elirr, Rufelt worked on a very herbal cream liqueur that tempered the rather strong base taste with the cream and added complexity with a bit of nutmeg, some mint…Elirr took the glass and sniffed, sighing.

“Ah, thank you. What do I owe you?”

“My pleasure, sir. It’s on the house.”

The [Beast Trainer] didn’t object. Rufelt had a soft spot for old Gnolls, especially ones like Elirr. And ones that had survived damn Raskghar. Hawk looked up hopefully at Rufelt.

“Not a chance. Pay up.”

The Courier sighed. Then he looked sideways and saw what Mrsha was drinking. The Gnoll cub was sniffing at him; he smelled of a dozen places. The Courier nodded down to her with a friendly smile, oblivious to the white fur that gave pause to every Gnoll who saw her.

“Good taste, kid.”

He saluted her with his drink. Mrsha stared as he downed half and sighed contentedly. Elirr sniffed his bouquet and smiled. Rufelt smiled to himself as Mrsha watched Hawk go. He might have given Hawk the drink free just for that unintentional kindness. Then again—the Courier was loaded.

But it was Elirr who lingered. Like Rufelt, he said not a word. But in his case—Mrsha glanced up at him, anxious at first. Rufelt had heard little of how Elirr figured into yesterday, but he had some connection with the little Gnoll. He just sat, drinking slowly. Sitting next to Mrsha.

After a while, he patted her head gently. And she leaned against him, and he wiped her eyes with a gentle paw. Rufelt polished the mugs gently and refilled Mrsha’s cup with milk and Elirr’s after ten minutes. He envied the older Gnoll and wished he could have done that.

You were always evolving. Always. It reminded Rufelt of how far he had to go as a [Bartender]. He busied himself at the other end of the counter, giving the two space and drawing traffic down to that end. Another interesting guest stopped by then, and Rufelt couldn’t help but begin a conversation on his own terms. Sometimes you had to. Especially when a Drowned Man, half-man, half-crab, stopped by and spoke.

“Narwhal’s Knife. Make it a double.”

It was a brisk order, and Rufelt automatically behaved as if he were in a room where the order fit. The drink plonked down on the table in seconds. First a clear cup. Then—a thick, dark liquor, blue and gray. To that, Rufelt added a shot—and it was a shot from the metal straw in the small container—of an alcohol so potent that it made the eyes sting.

The blue-gray alcohol was thick enough that the clear liquid was caught in the drink. It was like a clear spear of liquid shooting down towards the bottom of the glass. Exactly like a spear, in fact, or a horn. The thick outer liquid didn’t let the clear spear dissipate and didn’t change markedly, even when Seborn picked it up. The Drowned Man took a drink of the potent stuff and nodded.

“Thanks.”

“I hope it lives up to the reputation. It’s been a while since I made a Narwhal’s Knife.”

Rufelt glanced at the Drowned Man, casually leading into the conversation. He caught a half-smile from the [Rogue]. Seborn nodded.

“Tastes just like something I’d get in a port-city bar. Better, actually. The glass is clean.”

“True enough.”

That made Rufelt smile. He and Seborn glanced at each other, appraising.

“You’ve worked in port cities, then.”

“And you’re familiar with them.”

Seborn shrugged.

“Not a hard guess.”

“I don’t mean to assume. If you’re a sea dweller, were you an independent sort? Or…?”

Now here was a question with only three answers. One was ‘yes’. The other was [Sailor]. And the third…Seborn shook his head.

“[Pirate]. Retired. I’m surprised anyone would ask that question in Pallass. Have you served many sea folk before?”

“I did a few years in Zeres, but that’s about it.”

“Huh. Not many [Pirates] there, I bet.”

“Some, but not as many, it’s true. Still, those who pay off their bounty are allowed in. Drake laws.”

“Sure. I remember. Zeres, City of Waves. Not the kind of place most [Pirates] prefer to venture near. One of the places to avoid, in fact. Top…five worst.”

“There are worse places to be? Forgive me, but I’ve always been curious.”

Rufelt polished the bar, watching Elirr leave with Mrsha to join a table where Erin Solstice herself sat staring at a chess board with glowing pieces. She looked up, smiling, and Mrsha happily slapped a bunch of pieces off the other side of the board and watched them fly back into position. Rufelt had offered Erin a drink, but she’d declined, wanting to be at her ‘best’ for…chess?

Seborn nodded. The Drowned Man looked pleased. But of course, he was far from home, and no one looked like him. Mrsha, for all her white fur, was more at home here. The [Rogue] took another sip and looked appreciative as Rufelt poured him a huge tankard of water. Drowned People needed to hydrate, doubly so when they drank.

“Thanks. Yes. There are worse places. The Iron Vanguard’s port cities. No one wants to fight their navies. Wistram, although they can be neutral. If you’re at odds with them, Roshal or the Siren’s territories, perhaps. Although Zeres is probably worse. The Isles of Minos. Drathian waters. And of course, the Lord of the Dance’s waters if he thinks you’re a threat. Those are all nations, though. If you want to talk about just dangerous spots, Zeres isn’t even in the top fifty.”

“Really?”

Seborn’s smile was crooked, at least, the half of his face that would move.

“I left the sea because I was sick of it. Land monsters aren’t bad by comparison to whales that can eat ships whole. Except for Crelers. They’re as bad on land as in the water.”

“Crelers in water? Dead gods, that’s a nightmare.”

“Tell me about it. Oh. One extra-large ale if you have a tankard big enough. Or three for my friend.”

“The half-Giant? Coming right up.”

Rufelt wished he could have chatted longer with the [Rogue], but that was how it went. He was working while socializing, not the other way around. And Rufelt liked his job. Person after person came over. Old or young, friendly or unpleasant.

It didn’t matter. The [Bartender] fulfilled every wish, unless the wish would hurt the customer. If he was a bad [Bartender], Rufelt wouldn’t have cared. But he wasn’t, so he did. He watched. And he came to a realization in the back of his mind. It was Lasica who articulated it. As early evening began, she stopped at his bar.

She’d been working in the kitchen to help Erin, and she paused as he served her a cool fruit drink. No alcohol. She sipped from it gratefully. Then she looked at her husband.

“Rufelt. Have you noticed? They’re so young.”

The Gnoll looked up and peered around the inn. He didn’t see what Lasica meant for a second and glanced back at his wife, his eyebrows raised.

“What, are you saying we’re old? Or are you talking about little Mrsha?”

She shook her head, sighing.

“No. Look at Lyonette, Erin’s head [Barmaid] or whatever she is. She’s a mother. If we had a Drake daughter her age, I’d be trying to keep her from flirting with every boy her age.”

Rufelt glanced around again. Now he got what Lasica meant. He looked—not at the guests of the inn—but at the people who lived there. The adventurers. Staff. Erin’s friends. Erin herself.

Erin, Ceria, Pisces, Lyonette, Selys, Yvlon, and Ksmvr. No—even Krshia, Jelaqua, Moore, and Seborn. Some were older, but if you looked at them, you noticed something. Friends. Teams. But no loved ones.

No couples. Jelaqua and Maughin. But Erin? Lyonette? No one. Not even a Gnoll or Drake or Human they were making eyes at. Rufelt nodded slowly. He looked at Lasica. If they had a Drake girl their age…it wasn’t exactly foreign. But what an odd thought to compare it to the children here. But that was Lasica’s point. He paused.

“And if we had a proud Gnoll son?”

She snorted.

“You’d get to talk with him about hanging out with so many Gnolls and subscribing to that tribal nonsense and pack mentality while I worried about how many little Gnoll pups I’d be grandmother to.”

“Hey! Why are our children both sex-starved maniacs in these scenarios?”

Rufelt mock-glared at Lasica. She smiled a bit wistfully.

“Because that’s young. And stupid. It’s what I’d expect of someone that age in Pallass. But Liscor’s out in the High Passes. Dead gods, little Mrsha just confronted a gang of Gnolls and Drakes torturing a prisoner. They could have killed her, and look at her now.”

She pointed. Mrsha was happily waving a wand, growing flowers at the table where Moore sat. As if she were a child. But she had white fur. And Rufelt remembered her sitting at his bar, sipping the bitter carrot juice. Pretending to be…

Lasica went on.

“They survived undead attacks, a Goblin Lord, the Face-Eater Moths—can you imagine anyone their age in Pallass doing that?”

“[Soldiers], perhaps. If they enlisted at fourteen, they’d have seen that.”

“Hah! Maybe, but Pallass is safe. We’ve got crime, but we don’t have monsters a mile from the city. We’re not Liscor. And Erin? Lyonette? They’re not [Soldiers], Rufelt. Not Erin, nor anyone else in her inn. They’re adventurers. Antinium. Little Gnolls.”

“Children. You’re right.”

Rufelt looked around. And he felt old. Suddenly, though the grey had just started to appear in his black fur. But this wasn’t something a dye from Xif could hide. He turned back to Lasica. And she looked older. More beautiful, somehow. Both at the same time. She nodded at another table where a familiar, huge Dullahan sat.

“Even Miss Ivirith. Her team fits in this inn. I’m almost jealous; maybe it’s an [Innkeeper] thing, but Erin’s found her people. Her team feels like the rest of the guests she has. They don’t fit.”

“The Halfseekers. No, I agree. Look at her with Maughin. Come to that, our resident [Blacksmith] probably doesn’t have much more experience in love.”

Lasica chuckled. Then she sobered.

“But more than her. It’s striking. It’s so young here. But I guess that’s the point. People who’re old wouldn’t make an inn out here. If they were old, they’d stay in the city. They wouldn’t be…”

She looked at Erin. Rufelt nodded. If Erin was married, even to someone like her, would she run her inn like this? That was the feeling in the air. Youth. A bright, spontaneous energy. The kind of unpredictability that had captured Pallass for a moment. He looked at Lasica, and he didn’t have anything to say. So he just leaned on the counter. She sat there. And they watched.

After a moment, the introspection was broken as a Drake with light blue scales walked up to the bar. He spoke quietly.

“Something strong, please. Not so strong I’ll fall over, but something fortifying.”

Rufelt looked up. The request was familiar. So was the unhappy look in the Drake’s eye. Rufelt thought he recognized him too. But he silently mixed a drink that did exactly what the Drake wanted. The [Strategist] nodded, paid, and drained the mug in two gulps. He exhaled, shook his head, and paused there.

He didn’t want to turn. The [Bartender] wondered if he should step in. But—no. The Drake was working up his courage. He muttered to himself.

“I’ve done what I thought was right. But what’s right isn’t—sometimes you pay for what’s right. Because what’s right isn’t fair to your friends. You know?”

He looked up helplessly at Rufelt. The Gnoll nodded. Lasica smiled, but she let Rufelt reply.

“If it’s about right and fairness, it feels like a good way to live would to try to be both.”

“If only I could.”

The Drake muttered. He shook his head.

“I’m trying to protect them. But I’ve earned—thanks.”

He reached into his belt pouch, put a silver coin as a tip, and turned. Rufelt watched him go. He watched the Drake, but he didn’t watch what came next. Because he didn’t need to know. It was at his wife he looked. She nodded.

“Young. Remember that?”

Rufelt did. Not in the same way, but in a similar, parallel one. A hundred times. He winced as the slap echoed and looked back. Which one had done that? Again, it didn’t matter.

“Well, what should we do about it, Lasica? Or is it fine as it is?”

“I don’t know. But I feel sorry for them. A bit lonely.”

“Lonely?”

Rufelt walked out behind the bar. He looked at the Drake, and she glanced at him.

“Well, for them. Rufelt, I do think Erin’s inn is amazing. For her age—for what she’s made. But it’s missing something. I like to think our place is better.”

“Me too. But I don’t feel like rubbing it in her face.”

“Well, I’m not going to either. But sometimes we can show her what she’s missing. Can’t we?”

The inn was unaccountably quieting as the two talked at their position behind the bar.

“Of course. Are you thinking…?”

Erin Solstice glanced up from her game of chess, frowning. Rufelt nodded and then peeked at the door to Pallass.

“Yes. But where would we find our lovely Dullahan [Cellist]?”

Lasica smiled. The note that rose above the quiet conversations was played by a cello. But there was no player. Lasica raised her brows.

“We don’t need her.”

“No.”

The conversations stopped as the Drake took the Gnoll’s extended paw. Heads turned, back, looking for something that the people knew was there.

Forwards they came. A Gnoll and a Drake. A [Bartender] and a [Chef]. Lasica and Rufelt. Before them, people looked around and realized what was going on. The cello began to play, and the tables moved back. Chairs scooted, moving, The Drake and Gnoll saw a space clearing in the inn. They walked out onto it. And then they began to dance. It was as simple and as quick, as magical as that.



—–



Erin Solstice looked up. She felt the shift in the inn before the music began to play. But it was the music that made her realize what they’d done. It wasn’t melancholy, but nor was it jolly. It was simply…passionate. The kind of passion that invited the slow, intimate dance between the two. The kind of music that demanded nothing as complex as a waltz.

It was free-form, inviting, intoxicating in a way alcohol could never be. And it suited the two who danced with all to see.

She had seen it with Jelaqua and Maughin, holding hands, talking together, forgetting everyone else even when they were at the same table. It was the self-absorbed selfishness that young couples had. But what was so despised among youth hadn’t disappeared with age. It had only changed form. Now it was on display.

It invited. It was not a wall, but a path. Illumination, and it drew more and more people, like moths into the light. Couples first, and then people. Individuals becoming duos. Erin looked around as the people in her inn looked at each other.

See. A nervous invitation or a confident one. A surprise or something long coming. A Drake bowing to a young Dullahan woman. A Gnoll turning down her suitors and plucking a Garuda from where he sat. Because he had been watching her out of the corner of his eye. Old and young.

Lasica and Rufelt danced among it all. It wasn’t slow, the way they had danced in their bar. In fact, as the invisible cellist picked up, they moved faster, and the inn came alive. Erin heard laughter, but there was a silence between the two.

Two, dancing like one person. Erin looked at them, smiling. Longing. But content to watch. So did Lyonette until Pawn nervously approached. Then Lyonette looked at Mrsha, and the little Gnoll waved her on. Mrsha sat on Moore’s lap as he watched, truly, gently, envious.

“I would like to understand that before I die.”

Ksmvr spoke softly from where he sat with his team. It startled the others. But the Antinium was just watching the dancing. Yvlon looked up. She paused and nodded quietly.

“Me too. But someday. Perhaps. It’s hard with how we live.”

She felt at her arms, still encased in steel, though she’d taken off the rest of her armor. Neither one looked at Ceria, but the half-Elf still felt their attention. She cleared her throat.

“I—well, I’ve got time. Half-Elves don’t worry about that until we’re in our eighties. At least, if we’re born in a traditional village. Falene’s more likely to be looking about. And I’m aiming to succeed as an adventurer. Right?”

Ceria’s ears twitched a bit as she avoided the question. She self-consciously looked to her right. Pisces was sitting there, his drink mostly empty. The [Necromancer] watched Rufelt and Lasica. Selys had grabbed a Drake she knew; Drassi was dancing with Ishkr. And he shrugged, his face outwardly impassive.

“I am content with being alone. I, like many, have made my choice. If I truly thought love were essential to my happiness, I would be miserable.”

His team looked at him. Yvlon shook her head.

“You could have decided not to be a [Necromancer].”

Pisces smirked, but quietly. There was no bite to his reply, but there was certainty.

“But would I have been true to myself or living a lie? I would rather seek truer love.”

Yvlon paused, frowning.

“How? You’re not exactly throwing yourself out there. Or making a good impression.”

“If I were to find someone, it would be someone who accepts what I am. But again, I am not seeking it.”

Sometimes, Ceria wanted to punch Pisces for always having a response. But right now, she just envied the certainty he could project, real or fake. If it was a lie…she looked sideways at him, and she realized he was tracking Rufelt and Lasica now. As attentively as Ksmvr. Pisces spoke slowly.

“It is a glorious spectacle for those who find it. Rare as it may be.”

The Horns of Hammerad could only nod at that. Ceria looked at the dancing pairs. She muttered into her drink.

“…Show-offs.”

“True.”

Yvlon laughed. Then she got up and held out a hand. Ksmvr stared blankly at Yvlon until Pisces kicked him.

“Me?”

“You wanted to learn it before you die, Ksmvr. Come on. I’ll teach you to dance.”

“But I am not married. I would not like to be perceived as immodest.”

“Ksmvr—”

Yvlon laughed. She pulled the Antinium up. Ceria blinked. She looked at Pisces. And realized he was gone. He was getting up, walking towards the stairs. He never made it. Ceria stared and then realized she was alone. She glanced around. At a blue Drake sitting by himself. But she ended up sitting, even when Moore and Mrsha joined the floor. And sometimes that happened too.



—–



They stopped dancing when they were done. Not because the bar demanded it. Rufelt would happily burn the bar if it was that or Lasica. Especially because it wasn’t his bar in this inn. But he went back because they were done. And he served drinks with a [Bartender]’s smile while his own hid inside his head.

He was busy, of course. It was evening and passing later with each minute. The elections were coming to a close. In the streets of Liscor, the City Watch guarded boxes where the votes were stored. Voters answered under truth spell before voting, and their votes went to each district and the candidates running in each area. Of course, each area had at least two candidates running—sometimes three or four. But the hottest debate was over a simple split.

Lism and Krshia. Accordingly, almost all Drake and almost all Gnoll candidates on each side. Who would win? Who would lose? Surely there would be riots in either case. Or perhaps not.

The mood of the guests flooding into The Wandering Inn was actually fairly calm. No—not calm, but not shouting or rowdy in most cases. It surprised Erin, but not Rufelt. He just watched. And listened.

The guests came in from the city. They had participated; it seemed everyone in the city had voted. Krshia, Lism, whether they’d voted for them or another candidate in another district, it didn’t matter. They were all coming here.

Hot rivalry, fierce debate—it was giving rise to another emotion. Uncertainty. It was done. They’d voted, and tomorrow, Liscor would be a different place. So it was no wonder the inn—every inn and bar and tavern in the city—was filling. It was important that Rufelt was there. Because such people needed drinks. They needed to be able to talk.

And more than that, there needed to be someone who could wield alcohol with authority. In Erin’s case, she was the [Innkeeper], but Rufelt’s touch was more experienced. Subtler.

A crimson Drake was already drinking with her father when a squad of Drakes and Gnolls entered the inn. The Drake [Captain] marched right up to her and saluted, ignoring Relc.

“Wing Commander! Reporting!”

“Captain Vell. You’re not on duty.”

Wing Commander Embria’s voice was lost as Rufelt passed out drinks. But he was keeping an eye on the squad. They were making no attempt to be quiet—not that the inn was soundless. But they had an edge that he could feel on his fur. They were staring at all the Antinium in the inn. And then the female [Captain] marched up to the bar. She slapped silver onto it and loudly announced to the room.

“A round for the 4th Company of Liscor! And the right candidate winning this election!”

There could be no doubt who that was. The cautious talk instantly grew polarized, as if the [Captain] were a magnet. And she was, in a way. Rufelt could feel it, and the [Bartender] growled internally. But all he did was smile.

“And what will it be, [Captain]?”

“A proper Drake’s drink, of course! Firebreath Whiskey!”

Rufelt rolled his eyes mentally. He looked at Captain Vell and made a quick calculation. The way you handled this—well, you could do multiple things depending on how bad the fire was. Sometimes you let it rage or you snuffed it or fought it yourself—or let someone else do it. If the fire was bad enough, you didn’t even bother with that, but grabbed the money, the most expensive bottles, and plotted your exit, preferably through the back door. Or you could drown it.

The [Captain] and her squad blinked as Rufelt casually plonked the bottle of black liquid on the table and poured a foaming shot. He smiled at her.

“Of course, Captain. But could I tempt you with a new drink? On the house. I wanted to get the opinion of some strong drinkers.”

“What the hell’s that?”

Vell reached for the shot glass without hesitation. But Rufelt’s next words stopped her claw midway towards her mouth.

“Rxlvn. Antinium-made, actually. It’s rather strong, but it’s new. Actually, I’m considering taking it off the bar, but I imagine [Soldiers] have had stronger.”

One of the Gnoll [Soldiers] spat. The rest looked disgusted. Vell wavered.

“Antinium-made? Like hell I’ll drink…”

She eyed the black liquid. Rufelt shrugged innocently.

“I have to warn you, it’s got more of a kick than Firebreath Whiskey. But just as you like…”

Vell snatched her claw back as he reached for it. Her eyes narrowed, and she stared at Pawn as he sat with Lyonette.

“I can take anything the Antinium can handle. Let’s see what they think is strong. Give us all a shot!”

Rufelt did just that. He watched the table of [Soldiers] throw down a shot each, sneering at the Antinium.

Ten seconds later, Rufelt watched them trying not to pass out at the table. He regarded the black alcohol thoughtfully. Now here was a [Bartender]’s aid. As good as the trusty friend you kept in the form of a club or wand or pair of knuckles under the bar. And you could serve this in shot glasses.

So it went. A good [Bartender]’s job was never done until the last customer left, but this wasn’t Rufelt’s place, so he stopped as the sun entered its final descent. Lasica was beckoning to him, and he sensed she was tired. He was too after a day of work. So he abandoned the bar to Drassi, who was all too eager to fill his position with less variety of alcohol, but more talking and quantity.

Rufelt walked to Lasica. And they shared the far end of the bar for a moment. But for a hooded Drake, they were alone. Rufelt leaned on the counter, and Lasica sighed.

“Done, love? We can head back now; I’m sure Erin won’t mind.”

“In a moment. Rufelt. I…”

The female Drake looked around the room. She paused, then looked at him.

“Rufelt? Let’s visit the bazaar tomorrow.”

“Okay. For what?”

“Fertility spells.”

Rufelt paused mid-scratch on his back. He stared at Lasica.

“What brought this on?”

“I don’t know. Seeing this. Isn’t it time? You’re not getting any younger.”

“Hey.”

But that was an automatic response. The Gnoll’s mind was racing, but it wasn’t blown away. Part of him wanted to ask if ‘fertility spells’ couldn’t have been repackaged in more traditional terms, but Lasica was pragmatic. He nodded.

“We can look at them. And discuss this. When you haven’t had four drinks.”

He always counted. Lasica smiled.

“Of course. Lots of talking.”

The two stared at each other, thinking and knowing each other were thinking and imagining—until they were interrupted. The Drake on their right leaned over.

“You two should consider adopting a child instead.”

Surprised, then almost affronted, Rufelt looked up. He frowned.

“Excuse me?”

The Drake peered at the two and shrugged slightly, dislodging the hood a bit.

“There are children living in Liscor who need homes. Some go to relatives. Others…others disappear. Or they go from home to home. Strangers. I have to imagine a Walled City has that problem a hundred times worse. Those children deserve homes. Gnoll, Drake, Garuda, Dullahan.”

Rufelt blinked at the Drake. So did Lasica, but she had a reply.

“I wasn’t aware it was an issue, sir. We have [Alchemists] in Pallass, and there are magical items too.”

“Not everyone buys a potion to deal with that. Or they give children away after they’re born. It’s just a thought for you two to consider. Don’t mind me. I apologize for interrupting. But you should consider it, at least.”

The Drake shrugged and went back to his drink. Rufelt remembered serving it. A mulled wine. He studied the Drake. Then his eyes narrowed.

“You’re Lism, aren’t you? The Drake I’ve heard so much about.”

Lasica blinked, but Rufelt’s nose remembered more than his eyes. The [Shopkeeper] turned his head warily. But no one else had heard. He shrugged.

“I thought I’d see what this place my nephew talks about so much is like.”

“Really.”

Rufelt wondered what would happen if the crowd found out he was here. Or—just Erin. Lism seemed not to want to find out either. He tugged the hood further over his head, which did make him rather suspicious—then again, it was crowded.

“Tomorrow, I’ll be running Liscor or sitting in my shop. Either way, I’d better know the people I want to lead. And I wanted to see her.”

He stared past Rufelt and Lasica at the young woman offering cake around, smiling. Rufelt watched the Drake’s eyes. He saw Lism narrow his gaze. But there wasn’t malice. Just…Lism sighed.

“If I become a Councilmember tomorrow, I’ll do what’s right for Liscor. I always have. I just disagree with Silverfang about what that is. And part of that is letting this place be…this place.”

Neither wife nor husband replied. Lism finished his cup and pushed it back. He stood up and looked around.

“If I do become Councilmember, I’m going to tax this inn, though. Ancestors know it’s deserved. Thank you for the drink.”

He nodded to Rufelt and Lasica and walked towards the door. Lasica frowned at his back. She looked quickly at Rufelt. He was studying Lism’s back as the Drake disappeared out the front door.

“What do you think?”

The Gnoll didn’t reply for a moment. He was thinking over what the Drake had said. Adoption? Then he remembered Lasica’s question and turned to her. Rufelt glanced around for the blue Drake, but he was gone too.

“I think he has a child. So perhaps he’s older than Miss Krshia in a sense. She has a tribe. But he sounded like a father for a moment.”

Lasica paused, then nodded. Without another word, the two went to find Erin. Then they headed for the door. Rufelt had his equipment and alcohols stored in his bag of holding. And as they joined a queue to Pallass, they heard a weary [Mage]’s voice from the other side.

“Anyone to return to Pallass? Last call! We are not recharging the door again! Tomorrow, access is cut off to two visitors per day! There will be no [Mages] available unless they are paid for by the [Innkeeper] or guests!”

Rufelt grunted.

“Looks like Erin will have to solve that herself.”

“Well, I’m sure we’ll see her soon, love. I’d bet on it.”

“Good luck finding someone willing to take that bet.”

Rufelt laughed, and Lasica joined in. They stepped out of the inn and back into their city. And then they were back. Gnolls, Drakes, Garuda, Dullahans, all walked back through the inn and down the street. They mingled, walked past each other, a hundred thousand, millions of souls in the Walled City.

And amid them stood a Drake and Gnoll. They didn’t look particularly special among them all, certainly not with the giant Dullahan who bent towards a tearful Selphid on the other side of the door, or a Garuda who flew back towards her house dead drunk and hit a roof. But the world stopped, and time itself paused as they looked at each other. At least, that was how it felt.

They kissed in a street full of people as the setting sun painted the street in shadows and orange and fading gold. The cool wind blew past them, through the City of Invention, blown from far away. New and fresh and familiar and perfect.

Rufelt inhaled as he stepped back from Lasica. He looked at her, and he nodded down the street as he reached out. She smiled as she took his hand. Rufelt smiled.

“Lasica, let’s go home.”

And so they did.





6.42 E


(Volume 1 on Audible is out! Please consider using an Audible credit to buy it and leave a review! That would really help!)



It was a nightmare that woke him. An urgent dream. But it wasn’t one with pictures. He didn’t ever dream of something he had never had.

And yet, the dream had sound. The laughter of [Witches], high and cackling, borne out of imagination, movies. A skittering of a large spider. A baby’s wail.

Sensation. Cobwebs giving way to burning heat. Fire racing around him, crackling. Frightening, elusive. Smell—smoke. But where was it coming from? In his dream, the young man was reaching for it. But the fire was racing, growing, eluding him.

In the background, he could hear more laughter. Was it a woman’s voice? A man’s? He couldn’t tell anymore. And then the heat was everywhere. Consuming. Burning. Fire.

Then Laken Godart woke up. He sat up with a start and gasped and heard someone jerk. There was a pause as the world became real and solid, and Laken heard a voice.

“Your Majesty?”

“Gamel. I’m fine. I was just dozing.”

With an effort, Laken focused. He felt the rumble of movement in the carriage. Heard Gamel shifting. Laken shook his head. It was the same dream. But compounded with the news of yesterday. He turned his head restlessly, searching with his hearing rather than his eyes.

“Stop the carriage, Gamel. I’m going to ride in the supply wagon.”

Gamel paused. He knew what that meant. But he didn’t object.

“Yes, Your Majesty.”

Laken heard Gamel rap on the window leading to the driver’s seat. He murmured to the driver, and the carriage obligingly stopped. After a moment, Gamel opened the door.

“Sire…?”

Laken reached out, and Gamel helped him descend without tumbling from the seat of the carriage. Fresher air hit Laken. And wet. He grimaced as he realized he’d tuned out the sound of rainfall.

“Still raining? What is this, the eighth day in a row?”

“Yes, Your Majesty. I’ll bring the umbrella—”

“No need. The supply wagon has a covering. Let’s get there.”

Gamel hesitated. But it wasn’t pouring yet, and both knew the skies could open up any moment. Carefully, Laken walked across the soggy dirt ground. Hard-packed, but very muddy. He could smell the waterlogged soil in the air. It felt like it was still day. But he could only take Gamel’s word for it. Laken could feel no sunlight on his skin.

“Halt the caravan! Make way!”

Someone was shouting. Laken listened. The entire caravan was halting, wagons behind his carriage stopping so he could move from the carriage to the supply wagon—which had been suspiciously vacant of actual supplies the last three times he’d used it. Part of him could only grimace, but internally. This was what an [Emperor] was. A heavy weight. Ponderous. But capable of change.

Like hand-held umbrellas. It was amazing that aside from a few parasols, no one had really invented a basic umbrella. Then again, magic worked as well as an oiled rain cloak. People didn’t really need an umbrella; it was a pedestrian’s tool. But it had been a nice curio to develop, especially in light of all this rain.

Still, an umbrella didn’t really matter compared to covered wagons, did it? And the awning of what might be oiled cloth or some animal hide protected the next wagon. It was curved, but had an open back.

Laken let Gamel clamber up and then offer him a hand and pull him into the wagon and find a seat for two reasons. Firstly, because he wouldn’t doze off in the wagon as opposed to the carriage. And secondly, because the open back faced the back end of the caravan.

“Your Majesty? Shall I fetch you a blanket? Something to drink?”

“No, Gamel. I’ll just sit here. Take your ease, by all means. I will call if I need you.”

Laken was aware there was a blanket waiting for him in the corner of the wagon. And Gamel hesitated only for a moment before hopping out of the wagon. Probably to snack or talk with his fiancée, Tessia. Or just walk near the wagon.

It was fine. Laken sat, hearing the call go forwards.

“Move the wagons! Watch the road! Potholes ahead!”

Potholes and mud. But Laken said not a word. He shifted on the hard wood, feeling the back of the wagon, slightly damp from where water had inevitably leaked in. And he held still. They wouldn’t notice him at first.

He sat there a while. Listening. And from behind the wagon, at the end of the caravan, he heard a foreign language, the sound of movement. Murmurs, laughter. Conversation. Arguments. Crying.

None of it sounded like monsters. As the wagon rolled on, bumping, uncomfortably navigating the muddy roads west and north back to Riverfarm, Laken knew the other wagons were being pulled. Here at least was a convention of this world, although the wagons had had to be built. But the iron bars, the cage-like wagons—those were a [Slaver]’s legacy. It was darkly appropriate to the people they held.

How else would you keep them from escaping or trying to attack the guards that rode in number with them? And just as crucially, protect them? It was still an injustice, but a necessary one. Something Laken couldn’t apologize for.

There weren’t enough words in any language to apologize. And Laken had tried. Until he’d realized how worthless words were. So he listened. Soon, they knew he was there. Then…the noise stopped.





Day 60 – Laken



I know they’re there. But they’re so silent I could be alone but for the sound of the wagons, the horses. Because they know I can’t see. So they make no sound. Not a clue to give me a sign they’re alive.

They can probably see me. I’ve had Gamel describe what it’s like in this strange caravan more than once. The wagons don’t ride in a single line; that’s stupid, and the road’s large enough to carry them three or even four abreast. At least, if there’s no traffic flowing the other way.

We’re travelling down a regular highway. Made of dirt, true, but it beats trying to travel cross-country. Roads are very necessary for wheels not to break on rocks, or struggle going down sharp inclines or getting trapped in divots in the ground, etcetera. You learn something new every day.

So the prisoners’ carts, the wagons filled with Goblins, are rolling just behind my wagon. No—to the left and right occasionally. Following the riders in front and my carriage. The Goblins are at the back of the caravan, which is obviously not where you want to put anything valuable.

It’s the first spot to be abandoned or attacked. Which is why the Goblins are there. I didn’t choose it; the [Caravan Master] refused to have the Goblins’ carts in the lead. Which is also a dangerous spot, but there’s the symbology of having Goblins in the back. They can’t ‘lead’ or be seen to be ahead of good Humans. Plus, they throw their poop and stones at the riders.

And that’s fine. If there’s anything I’ve learned after, god, what is it, two months now? It’s that I can’t win every battle. I shouldn’t even try. What’s valuable is winning the battles that need to be won. And getting around three hundred Goblins back to Riverfarm alive is a trial in itself.

Having Riverfarm standing would be good too. But I have a choice, and I’m making it. We’re close to home. If it weren’t for these rains, we’d be closer. As it stands, I could lose the Goblins if I rode ahead. So here I sit.

Silence. They definitely know I’m here. It’s actually quite surreal. Because if I asked Gamel, he could tell me. Hundreds of Goblins. Crimson eyes, staring at me. I don’t understand what ‘crimson’ is, or really get the fact that their eyes glow in the dark. But it makes Gamel wary.

As for me—I listen. I can hear the animals pulling the wagons making sounds. Hear conversation from the drivers, but not much. They don’t like having to drive the wagons with the Goblins. There’s a rotation system so they can drive the other wagons or the carriage, and apparently they’ve even taken to gambling for who has to drive the Goblin wagons every day.

Good, I guess. It means they’re resigned to it. If the drivers do spit at the Goblins or hurl insults, they’re not doing it now. Because I’m there. And I’m…listening.

“Gamel.”

He jumps; he thinks I didn’t notice that he’d pretended to leave. I sigh. I’m blind. Not deaf. If he’d left, I wouldn’t still hear him splashing alongside. He wavers.

“Your Majesty?”

“Take my phone.”

So saying, I reach into my pocket and pull it out. I hear a breath, almost awed. Gamel accepts it. I nod to the wagon.

“There’s a bunch of Goblins riding in that wagon right behind us, isn’t there?”

“Yes, Your Majesty.”

“Toss the phone. Try not to hit the driver.”

I hear a pause and an unvoiced objection. But again, we’ve done this dance before. How many days is it? I count.

Around fifty-four days since we really began moving. Forty since the Goblins were treated like animals and not like prisoners. Thirty-seven since I could sit anywhere near them without being in danger of being hit by something. Twenty-one since the wagon drivers learned the lesson about tormenting them. Eight since the rains began, slowing our progress to a halt. It’s so bad it reminds me of Liscor. I thought spring was ending.

Oh, and eighteen days since I gave Gamel the order the first time to throw the phone. After eighteen days, he doesn’t even try arguing. He just sighs.

“Yes, Your Majesty.”

“Thank you. Hey.”

I turn. I can hear silence, but I know they’re there. I nod towards where I think Gamel is and speak to the Goblins.

“Catch.”

Gamel throws the phone. I don’t know what he aims at. But I never hear it hit the ground. It doesn’t bounce off a wagon driver’s head—I’d hear the swearing. And it doesn’t hit the bars. I hear Gamel settle back, watching.

Well? But I don’t ask. If they think Gamel’s telling me what they’re doing, the Goblins will just stop doing it. In their way, they’re tenacious; they can sit in silence, motionless, for hours until I give up. Even the children. So I don’t ask. I wait. And I hear them shuffling around. Then I can’t help it. I turn my head.

“Gamel, a blanket. And tell me what they’re doing.”

“A Hob has it, Your Majesty. One of the…Redfangs.”

“Ah.”

I can picture him in my head. There’s only two Hobs in the caravan from the Redfang tribe, who are apparently famed for their skill in battle. It was a Redfang Goblin that killed the Goblin Lord. Garen Redfang, their Chieftain. And another slew a high-ranking [Knight], Sir Vumat. And of those Hobs, only one is male.

I’ve asked Gamel to describe him. So I imagine the Hob, young—they all look rather young. But older than the rest, in his late twenties perhaps appearance-wise. Squatting or sitting, his loincloth and belt worn. Bare-chested, covered in the faded war paint they wear.

The remaining Redfangs apparently have more stripes than exposed skin. I don’t know how they make anything like a dye, even with blood, but apparently that [Shaman] has something to do with it.

Gamel fusses over the blanket with me as he continues describing the Hobgoblin’s actions. And I listen. When we return to my lands, I want to see how close my image of these Goblins is to reality. I’ve learned about them. But only as an outsider. I know things, but I don’t know what they mean. And they refuse to talk to me. That’s fine.

“He’s using your phone, sire.”

“Of course he is.”

Here’s where my imagination really has to strain since I turned my screen reader app off. But there’s this…Goblin. Sitting, while the other Goblins cluster around him, peering at the glowing screen. And I’m told they can use it as adeptly as I can. Scrolling from screen to screen with a delicate flick, handling the iPhone with the utmost care, despite the fact that you can just [Repair] it and charge the battery and fix the screen in one go.

For a few minutes, the Hob does just that. Then he makes a decision, and it takes the Hobgoblin only a second to open the app he wants. Hah—it took the Goblin children less than ten minutes to start taking movies of each other, apparently.

It shouldn’t surprise me, honestly. I’m told there’s a video of a monkey of some kind figuring out how to use an app on a smartphone. And if a primate could do it, Goblins should understand it—better than Humans, actually. Gralton and Yitton both freaked out when I took a picture of them (off center), and they both treat it as if it’s made of diamonds.

Which it is, I suppose. But it’s worth something here. No—more than anywhere else. In that sense, my iPhone holds a treasure from another world. Which is what the Hob listens to now. He doesn’t use headphones; that would mean he’s the only one listening to it. There’s a start—a strain of music. Then even the wagon drivers stop grumbling. Because they know what’s coming.

A song.

I can hear it. It begins with a violin and an accordion, both instruments that few in this world could play. And a man’s voice begins to sing. By my side, Gamel sighs. Because he recognizes it too.

The music’s distant, but familiar; the Goblins make no sounds as the wagons carry them. They listen to a German singer. Irony of ironies, it’s a song I’ve played in this world.

Viertel vor Sieben.

There’s no way they can know what the song means. Yet, I think they do. It’s the Hob’s favorite song. He’s played it fifty-three times. And yes, I count. There’s little to do on this caravan besides talk and listen. Less for a blind man; I can’t ride or practice swordplay or hunt like Gralton or Yitton. So I think. Appropriate, for an [Emperor].

The German music plays, a gentle, sad song. Nostalgic. And I can’t even fathom what the Goblins must look like. But they all listen. The Humans riding, the Goblins in the wagon. Listening to a song from another world.

At least in this, I can say Earth is unmatched. The songs and music and stories written as our society progressed and technology allowed more people to become songwriters or experiment is something this world lacks. We may not be better people. I’m proof of that. But we have this.

Music. The song lasts for just over five minutes, and it makes the time go faster, it really does. The rain begins to pour again, and the people grumble. The wagons roll on, and the animals are unhappy. But the Goblins listen. The next song is quite unlike the first. The Hobgoblin starts six different songs before a short argument in Goblin occurs. I hear a smack, a whining sound. And then a second song.

“Oh. I know this one.”

The beat to this song makes Gamel stir. I can just imagine other riders ahead pulling back. Because you couldn’t copy this kind of music. At least, I haven’t heard anyone playing the guitar. And the song’s in English. It makes me smile a bit.

Seven Nation Army by White Stripes. It’s not my music. But when my parents helped me set up the iPhone, my father got a hold of it. He inflicted his music on me by putting his favorite songs on the iPhone. Make no mistake, I’m grateful for the variety now. But—I pause.

“Odd. I haven’t thought of my father in…”

A wailing guitar solo interrupts me. I hear an animal protest, then the Goblins. They’re stomping or striking the bars or floor of the wagon to the beat. I smile, turning my head so they don’t see.

That’s when I hear footsteps. I hear him jump into the wagon a second before he lands; he surprises the hell out of me. Gamel sees him and announces his name, as if I couldn’t tell from his scent.

“Lord Gralton.”

“Laken.”

The [Dog Lord] throws himself into a seat opposite me. He smells like his wet hounds and a lot of rain and mud. Gamel politely moves back to give us room. I nod at Gralton.

“Did you get anything on your hunt?”

He laughs. He sounds as rough as he apparently looks. But I’m not fooled; he’s intelligent. He just likes dogs.

“We got a doe. Regular, not Corus. I saved you a cut. We’ll eat it tonight.”

I incline my head.

“Well done.”

He grunts dismissively.

“Not much challenge in a dozen warhounds bringing down a deer. A herd now—or a bear, that’s different. I’ll treat you to bear once we get to this Riverfarm of yours.”

“Not my bear.”

“Hah! You have to show me that one. A Mossbear for a pet? And they call me a savage. You gave the Goblins your phone-thing again, didn’t you?”

He sounds…not disapproving. That would be Yitton. But there’s an edge, and I sense him shifting. To look at the Goblins? I pause. Interesting.

“Something bothering you? You don’t like the song?”

That would be odd. Gralton’s into music like this, or even more intense stuff. Gralton growls softly, like a dog.

“I like the music. Not as much as the other ones you’ve shown me. But this one makes me uneasy because those Goblins like it. What’s it called?”

“Seven Nation Army. Why?”

I hear Gralton pause. The wood creaks as he leans on it, perhaps grasping it with his huge hands.

“They seem to have adopted it as one of their favorite songs. Probably because of the words.”

“The lyrics? What about them?”

“I don’t know if they count. But in the last battle, Velan the Kind was brought down by about seven separate armies.”

“Oh.”

The song’s on replay. The Goblins echo the beat. And it gives the music a new meaning.

The Goblin King. Velan the Kind. This Goblin Lord. Thousands of years—tens of thousands even—of Goblins being monsters. Goblin Lords and Kings causing destruction while Goblin Chieftains lead tribes, surviving despite being labeled a threat by practically every nation in the world. Gralton’s words only remind me how much of an outsider I am.

“Well, it wasn’t written about Velan.”

Gralton snorts.

“Someone else beat a seven-nation army?”

“Oh, something like that.”

The [Lord] waits. But I don’t give him anything more. He has to have his suspicions. I don’t know if he or anyone would make the logical leap. But he has to suspect. If I wasn’t sure of him, I’d be worried. Yet sixty days is a lot of time. It’s enough time for Goblins to master an iPhone enough to make a playlist full of their favorite songs. And shuffle the location of all my damn apps. And it’s enough time for me to get to know two men.

The second approaches after Gralton. And he requests entry to the wagon before climbing up. He smells like rain and metal. Not much else; Yitton Byres keeps himself clean. And he’s far different from Gralton’s relaxed nature.

“You shouldn’t give it to them, Your Majesty.”

“It’s Laken, Yitton. We’ve been in each other’s company for a month.”

I can picture the man sitting with his back straight against the wagon. Gamel’s described him for me; unlike Gralton’s usual stubble, Yitton has a maintained beard. His dark brown hair is turning to grey, and he moves with the weight and gravitas of his class in his mind. As if being a [Lord] is something to be equal to, rather than Gralton, who wears it as he pleases.

“I—apologize, Laken. It’s a first for me to be on close terms with royalty of any kind.”

“Well, among friends, I’d insist on it. Otherwise, an [Emperor] is quite lonely. And unapproachable. That makes a tyrant, I imagine.”

Gralton grunts.

“Is this another lecture about dictators, Emperor Godart? Because if it is, I’d rather listen to the Goblins.”

He makes another sound then, and I’m pretty sure Yitton just elbowed him hard in the side. The two are surprisingly chummy for such different men. Enough so that Yitton will actually do that, or so I’m guessing. I’ll have to ask Gamel later. I just smile.

“No lectures, Gralton. I’m just listening. And if you two are so inclined…unless you have anything to talk about?”

“Not I.”

“Nope.”

Well then. I sit back, and all three of us—and Gamel—just listen as the Goblins play more songs. It’s funny, but the music from the iPhone probably attracted the two [Lords]. Because as entertainment goes, it’s still the most novel thing in the world for them. And really, there’s nothing else to do. We’ve talked, argued, debated, and taught each other. We’ve been on this road a long time.

It’s been a month and a half. Of delays, escape attempts. Death and guilt and grief. And somehow, still too little being done. I’ve left my empire. And I could have ridden ahead, using Skills and switching horses or hiring a carriage.

The consequence would have been the deaths of the Goblins here. Because from the moment I demanded their capture as prisoners instead of execution on that battlefield, they’ve been under threat of death. If I left them with the guards—even under Gralton’s command or Yitton’s—I have no doubt there would be an ‘escape attempt’ where all the Goblins died. The same as if I let them go.

They would be hunted, tracked down. So I stay. And I don’t try to force people to be nice to the Goblins. Not anymore. That’s a mistake. I just let them keep their distance. Slowly, time does what even an [Emperor] cannot.

A month and a half means the people, Lord Gralton and Yitton, Gamel—everyone—is used to the Goblins by now. It means that even if they hate the Goblins, I’ve argued them into acceptance. Unlike the very vocal groups who wanted to execute the Goblins, children and all, on the spot. That’s…progress. That’s the benefit of time.

I only have to accept that it’s an investment of time that I have to give. A gamble. If Riverfarm falls to dissent or the [Witches] or…anything while I’m gone, it’s not worth the cost. And if I get back with a bunch of Goblins? I’ll have more problems.

I’ve thought about what to do. I have just one plan. It might work. Or it might fail. But it’s surely better than doing what the logic of this world says is the only course.

An hour passes. Just like that. I know because I can count it in the songs that are played. And reluctant as I am, I know the battery’s getting low. And I need that phone; it’s useful. Not least because I can store notes on it or use it to record sounds. Because it’s mine. And the Goblins are surprisingly respectful of that fact.

They could have snapped it in two, and I’m pretty sure the [Mage] riding with us couldn’t repair that. They could have deleted my music or apps, and I wouldn’t get them back. But aside from recording some very unpleasant noises and messing with my configurations—like turning off the voice help so I can’t navigate with it—they haven’t done anything else. That is something. So I turn and raise my voice.

“Excuse me.”

The iPhone goes quiet instantly. The Goblins, who’d make some sounds while listening, go silent. I nod, smiling.

“May I have my phone back?”

A pause. I can hear some distant shuffling. And then—Gralton catches the iPhone in front of my face; I can feel the wind and hear the impact in his palm. I try not to jerk back in alarm, but it’s instinctual. I hear tittering Goblin laughter. But I like to think they wouldn’t throw it like that if they knew Gralton wouldn’t catch it. I don’t test that theory. I just nod.

“Thank you.”

I don’t hear a response. But I have my iPhone back. They had their music, for a moment. They still won’t talk to me.

We have an understanding. And they will never forget what role I played. But I want to believe I’ve shown them I’m trying. To… to do something.

“Lord Gralton, Yitton, will you join me for a walk?”

Yitton murmurs.

“Gladly.”

Gralton.

“Yes.”

We leave the covered wagon. The rain’s slowed again. But Gamel hops off and shields me with an umbrella as I walk with the two [Lords]. Gralton swears as he splashes in some mud.

“Rain. This is uncanny. Has someone been fucking with the weather? Because if this is Magnolia pulling rain towards her fields or some idiot—”

I interject.

“You think it’s unseasonable?”

“I don’t know. And I don’t care. I just want to be out of it.”

“I have to echo Gralton’s sentiments, Your M—Laken. So much rain is unusual, although not unheard of. Byres lands don’t get as much, but we’re based in the foothills. What about Radivaek lands, Gralton?”

“I have no idea, Byres. I don’t count how much rain I get. Is it this bad in Riverfarm, Laken? Because if it is, I’ll ride ahead to my lands until the summer.”

I frown, thoughtful.

“I don’t know. I haven’t asked. There was good rainfall, but Prost hasn’t mentioned that.”

“Ah. Because of the news about the…[Witches].”

“Yes.”

The two go silent. Gralton spits after a second. Which sounds disgusting.

“Witches. I ran one off my lands once.”

Intriguing. I keep my voice light.

“Really? You never said.”

“I didn’t remember.”

Yitton sighs loudly. Gralton scratches, grunting.

“I forgot, alright? It’s nothing like what’s happening in Riverfarm, anyways.”

Time to press him.

“For my sake, Gralton, what did happen?”

“Nothing. Some villagers started complaining to me and they wouldn’t shut up. Said a [Witch] was cursing their farms. Doing black magic. I sent some people over, and they said she probably hexed a farm. There was some business about debts the village owed her. I didn’t care. I told my people to make the villagers and [Witch] swear under truth spell what had happened was what happened. Turns out it was all true. They paid her to take care of some nasty illness, and they didn’t want to pay the entire thing. So she hexed their fields, and half their crop died, and they had an infestation of bugs.”

“And what did you do to restore order?”

The [Dog Lord]’s pause was telling.

“We ran off the [Witch].”

“You didn’t force the village to pay her what they owed?”

I imagine Gralton shrugged during the next pause.

“She hexed them. So I decided she could get lost.”

“And?”

“She cursed the village. Either that or they lost too much from the fields. Place was deserted in two years.”

Silence. Lord Yitton makes a sound, and I just think. Curses. Broken promises. And [Messages] from Riverfarm. Increasingly worrying messages. I was so relieved to hear Durene woke up. But after that?

The rain pours down, unceasing. I have to wonder if these [Witches] are like the ones in the stories from my home. Again, I don’t know, but I have to trust that Ryoka won’t make any deals with them. With that said, I won’t treat them like monsters. Like Goblins.

“Emperor Laken. You had a [Message] from Riverfarm last night. An urgent one. May I ask what it was about?”

Yitton breaks in quietly. Very politely too, because it’s his and Gralton’s—okay, mostly Gralton’s—money that’s paying for these [Messages], the escort, food, and so much else. I nod.

“I did. And I’ve been pondering my response. It’s still…early morning?”

“That’s right. As far as I can tell. What happened?”

I tell them.

A simple story. Rehanna, a woman twice bereaved. A changeling made of cloth. A bargain struck. Of course, they know about the coven. But this? Gralton makes a noise. Yitton’s just deathly silent.

“Your thoughts, gentlemen?”

I ask.

“Get rid of the [Witch].”

“You tried that, Gralton. And look what it brought you. Your Majesty, I have to counsel intervention, but of another kind. That…[Witch] is clearly a powerful one. At least Level 40 if she can create something like that. I have to imagine even higher. Belavierr. Why do I know that name? My household has lists of dangerous enemies we’ve fought against. Though I feel like my wife mentioned…no.”

Yitton’s voice is greatly troubled. I wish I had access to those records. Lady Rie, Gralton, Yitton…I need more information sources. Yitton goes on.

“I would request aid. We have been cut off from news and socialization too long, Emperor Godart. If she is a threat, prevail upon the Five Families for aid.”

“From Magnolia Reinhart or Tyrion Veltras.”

I frown. It’s the same advice both gave me when the coven appeared. But both ideas sound like bad ones, especially from what I know. Then again, accepting any deal…the [Witches] are waiting for me. And they’ve claimed one victim. But she made the choice.

Rehanna. Yitton is silent, waiting. Gralton’s clearly nervous. I shake my head.

“I’ve thought about both suggestions. But I’d rather be there and appraise these [Witches] myself, Gralton, Yitton. If you’ll stick with me, we could at least counter a coven.”

Or so I hope. Both men agree. We’re allies. Of convenience, yes; our lands are close enough that it’s practical. But fate’s made us friends. I only hope I’m not leading them into trouble. But I am grateful for their company. I pause as I stare north and west. I know that’s where Riverfarm is. I can sense it. And something else.

“I won’t deny, it bothers me. I wish I was there. I don’t feel like Riverfarm is safe. It feels…hot. Like something hot is coming. On the wind.”

“I could do with some sun. But you’re talking about your lands, aren’t you?”

Gralton’s voice is measured. When I nod, he speaks. For all he’s impetuous, thoughtless at times, he’s higher-level than Yitton or I. And he doesn’t scoff at my dreams or feelings.

“Premonition. I’ve had that too, vaguely. When a bunch of damn Crelers set up a huge nest in my lands. A feeling like something was creeping up on me from behind. I was walking around my estates, looking for rats or insects, for three weeks until it was nearly too late. I had to hire three Gold-rank teams and Baudin the Brass.”

I nod. Two stories from Gralton in a day. That’s how he tends to give advice, through the lens of his failures. Yitton is more contemplative.

“In the past, the Byres house has clashed with [Witches] as well as other monsters. We were vampire slayers in another age, the first [Knights] who rode with the Five Families before that. They believed any threat could be defeated with silver and steel. But they armed themselves for each threat in turn. And many of the Byres line have perished in battle.”

So would silver be enough to defeat a [Witch]? That’s Yitton for you. Cautious advice rooted in history. I consider both points. In truth, my answer is simple. It’s…all I can give. We’re moving as fast as we can in the rain. And I am blind outside of my lands. Far still from home.

“Thank you for your advice, you two. I don’t know if we’ll make it. But in light of this—I’d like to adjust our course. Towards Radivaek lands. If we take a northern route, we’ll stick to the main roads.”

The two men confer, and Gralton pulls out a small map.

“It’s still two days’ fast ride to my lands from where we’d split to Riverfarm. And that’s if I left the caravan and rode as fast as I could. Call it seven to eight if I set out now. And I’d have to leave my dogs behind.”

There’s a note of expectancy in his voice. I nod.

“I’d prefer your company, Gralton. But if things get worse, I’d ask that you ride ahead towards your lands.”

In case he needs to bring back his army. Gralton agrees quietly. Yitton moves; I can hear the chainmail as he adjusts it and his belt.

“In that case, I will accompany you, Laken. Byres lands lie past Riverfarm.”

That’s him too. As if he’s not accompanying me and slowing his return for my sake. I smile.

“I’m lucky to have such companions. That’s the plan, then. Gamel?”

“Sire?”

I take a breath. [Witches]. Ryoka. I turn to Gamel. I can’t leave the Goblins. Yitton and Gralton couldn’t stop the guards from attacking the Goblins, or the other villages, cities, and towns we’ve passed. I can. We’re too far. But I can only hope. So I give my order.

“Send a [Message] back as follows: ‘Let no one strike a deal with Witch Belavierr. But do not try her yet. Collect evidence for a trial, which I will preside over. If this coven is to be trusted, see what they do when no bargains are struck. And give Rehanna every kindness. Do not take the…baby away. Leave her be.’ Tell them to wait. Wait for me.”

“Yes, Your Majesty.”

Gamel hesitates, and then Yitton takes the umbrella. He hurries away, splashing, as the rain falls. And I listen. And I wait. And I curse the rain. We’re not moving fast enough.

Something is coming. Something is already there. [Witches]. And I smell smoke before I feel the fire.





Day 61 – Fierre



It was days like today that made Fierre the Vampire hate being…well, her. Just a bit. Hate the fact that she was Fierre the Vampire, not Fierre the [Broker] or Fierre the [Opener]. Sometimes, often, she was proud and knew she was one of the few of her kind. Other times, she wondered if she could have been something else.

Because a Vampire gained no levels. A Vampire was like an animal or one of the sub-races, like Ogres or the true Giants of old. But even Goblins leveled.

You could argue it was there to give balance. If a Vampire could level, surely they would be [Warriors] without peer or [Mages] with access to magics beyond normal spellcasters. Vampires had many powers, and old Bamer had told her stories of the Vampires of old and how they’d tapped into blood magic, shape shifting—even though her father forbade those stories most of the time.

Well, her mother liked to tell those stories as well. Grand castles and balls, elegant and deadly rulers of the night. Whereas in reality, Fierre’s father, Himilt, told her that it was better to be what they were. People in hiding. Because Vampires had once ruled part of Izril. And they had fallen. Died to [Knights] and silver and magic and fire.

So why couldn’t they give it up? Fierre’s family lived in a crumbling castle, herding sheep. Caught between the present and the past. If they could leave, perhaps they’d be happier. Ordinary people who just had to stay away from the sun.

And who were sick. Fierre coughed into one sleeve as she paced the small room she operated as one of Reizmelt’s few Openers. One of three, in fact. The class [Opener] was a specific, stylistic one; it was more common to have an [Informant], [Fence], [Broker], or some other class fulfill the same role. Fierre would have liked any class, though. Because she knew what Skills such people got.

“If I was an [Informant], I could use [Source Information] and find someone. Or even [Thousand Mile Conversation] if I was really high level.”

She bit her lip hard, feeling her pointed canines sinking into her flesh. It didn’t really hurt; Fierre was hard to hurt, and she healed fast. Another benefit of being a Vampire. But she’d been on the other end of [Thousand Mile Conversation] just once. Someone could talk to you a thousand miles away as if they were standing right next to you.

Fierre vividly recalled that, fumbling for information for the broker about a deal gone south, hearing them harangue her as she dashed out to verify what they wanted in person.

That was the power of a Skill. True, a Level 30 Skill or maybe even Level 40, but a Skill nonetheless. Fierre was willing to lay down twenty gold pieces that the [Informant] who had that Skill could probably use it once per day. Imagine that! How could a Vampire compete?

Well, with the ability to regenerate from being stabbed in the stomach, the ability to rip the iron door in Fierre’s room off its hinges, and so on. But still, Vampires had lost a great deal of their powers. If Fierre had been like Himilt’s great grandfather, she could have flown to Riverfarm like a bat. But she couldn’t shape shift. Or turn into mist.

So she paced. After three more laps of the tiny room, Fierre heard a knock at the door. She froze, listening. There was a certain pattern to the knock she was listening for. If the person on the other side got it wrong, she was gone.

She waited. The rapping was three raps, pause, a rap, and then someone kicked the door. Good enough. Fierre still checked through the metal slot. She recognized the person on the other end and opened the door immediately.

Which meant three locks. It made it all the harder for a [Thief] to get in. Ironically, Fierre was most concerned about [Thieves]. She had to be; an Opener’s office contained as many valuables as a Merchant’s Guild. Information, secrets, items of certain value. Her stock and trade.

“Took you long enough.”

It didn’t earn respect, though. The raggedy [Mage] who stumped into Fierre’s office looked sour. Fierre bit back a response or the urge to slap his perpetually flushed, drunk face off his head. He was a poor [Mage], not brave enough to be an adventurer, a drunk, in fact. But he made his living by casting and receiving the [Message] spell for the criminal underworld in Reizmelt. And unfortunately, Reizmelt didn’t have much of a shady underworld. It was more like a ten-foot-deep pit.

This [Mage], Gailt, was Fierre’s regular contact. She knew of two other [Mages] who might cast [Message], but there was such a thing as loyalty among associates. And Gailt was cheap and somewhat reliable. He knew the cost of betrayal, at least.

“What’ve you got, Gailt?”

Fierre yanked the one chair in the room out for him. The [Mage] stumbled into it, unsteady. Fierre’s sensitive nose told her he was already two drinks into his day. And it was basically dawn. But that was the beauty of Gailt’s job. He could be drunk all day, and so long as he received [Message] spells and passed them on quickly, he could earn a living. Again—Gailt was professional in his own way. So he didn’t waste time.

“Got a message back from Filk at last. That [Broker] you lit up two days ago with all those threats?”

“[Fence]. His primary class is [Fence]. What’d he say? Did you get the [Message] to Ryoka? Did she respond?”

“One thing at a time! Yeah! I got it to her. I confirmed it with that stuttering bastard in Riverfarm. Idiot can’t even receive well.”

Gailt grimaced as he rubbed one ear. He unsteadily sat upright, closing his eyes for a moment. Fierre waited, trying not to break the edge of the desk she was holding in frustration. The man opened his eyes at last.

“First things. Your Runner got the message. That’s what the [Mage] in Riverfarm says. ‘pparently, she didn’t know she could get ahold of you through me. So her [Message] is straight to you. It’s—‘Fierre, thanks about Belavierr. She’s as dangerous as you said. Please let me know if someone’s asking. She made a cloth baby. Not alive?’ There’s a question mark there, by the way. Uh—‘I have to stay. Not in danger. I think.’”

“She thinks? Did she not get my [Message]? Did she not hear that bounty? Or the rumors from Noelictus I copied to her?”

Fierre stared at Gailt in disbelief. It was rhetorical, but the [Mage], in the way of his kind, seemed to take it as a personal question only he could answer.

“Well, she’s not saying why she’s there. My guess is that it’s got something to do with that coven. Or that delivery for that [Emperor] bloke. Either way, your friend’s in it deep. Too bad she didn’t give you more details.”

“Yes.”

The Vampire girl closed her eyes, annoyed. She was trying to think. If—

“Aha! I bet she thinks you’re getting charged by the word, like what the [Mage]’s Guild does. She doesn’t know I’m being paid different. Not that I’d mind being paid by the word.”

“Gailt. I’m trying to think.”

Fierre growled at him. The [Mage] didn’t look impressed.

“I’m just trying to help. At least this Runner girl knows you’re on her side. She said ‘please’ and everything. Why’re you starting a fight with the [Fence] in Filk for, anyways?”

“That’s right! The [Fence]! What did he say?”

The girl turned to Gailt. He grinned lopsidedly at her.

“You want it word for word or the summary?”

Fierre frowned.

“You mean…?”

“I think he told you to go stuff your, uh—unmentionables into some other stuff. And do all kinds of things that I don’t think you’d like! Short of it is that he says piss off. He’ll sell information on that Stitch Witch and coven to anyone he likes.”

The Vampire girl stared at Gailt. Then she began cursing. He grinned, lolling back in his chair, as she tried not to overturn the desk and smash it in half. She eventually sat and yanked out a drawer. It was neatly filed with pieces of information on…well, everything.

Fierre was an Opener. Even if she didn’t have the class, she opened letters, paid Runners for their secrets, and negotiated the sale of information. That meant she’d dipped her toes into the part of the world that the official law of the cities wouldn’t tangle in. It also meant that Fierre’s worth was contained in what she knew.

And as stated, a [Thief] would love to get their hands on that information to sell to a Watch Captain, [Lord] or [Lady], another [Broker], or any number of organizations. Yet, it was a dangerous game to play. Information was money and power. But it could also be danger. Which was why Fierre trusted Gailt, for all he was a drunkard. If he sold the [Messages] that he handled, or if people thought he was filing away what he relayed, he’d be dead very, very quickly. It was Fierre who had the power in the relationship. In connections, coin, and, yes, information.

“That bastard wants to ignore me? Does he think because he’s the top [Fence] in Filk he’s anything like an [Opener] in a city like Reizmelt? Filk doesn’t even have a damn Thieves’ Guild! Fine! Gailt! Send a [Message] to—”

She consulted her parchment, breathing angrily. Gailt sighed as he put a finger to his head.

“—Daufica Longshel. Wait, is that right?”

“Nope! I know her. Beautiful lady, or so I want to believe. Beautiful mental voice.”

Fierre glanced up.

“She’s sixty years old.”

She was rewarded by Gailt’s look of distress and a single digit. He closed his eyes.

“Go to Rhir and die, Fierre. What do I say?”

“Tell her I want a message sent to Ratwhisperer. Make it painful and thorough. I’m also paying her eight big ones—light up his office.”

Gailt blinked.

“Send a message—oh. Eight gold for—are you sure?”

He looked a bit rattled and more sober than a moment ago. Just like two nights ago. Fierre’s eyes flashed dangerously, but she kept them from turning red.

“Do I look like I’m joking, Gailt?”

She saw his mouth pop open and then decide to close. The man closed his eyes, and Fierre sat back. She clenched her fists. This was unlike her. If you decoded what she’d just said, she’d just paid Daufica, a [Mage] who also doubled as a [Fixer]. Unlike Fierre, she dealt in very real things. And Fierre had hired her to send a few people to the [Fence]’s office and beat him. Perhaps with broken bones. And then burn it down.

Some might call that an extreme reaction. It was certainly nothing light. Fierre was pretty certain she could get away with it. The ‘Ratwhisperer’ as he called himself (his real name was Jenkil Thert), didn’t have the clout to fight back. If he tried, Fierre had a secure iron door, Reizmelt’s top gang thought she was useful, and she was a Vampire. Hiring a group of people to beat her up was a fatal mistake.

Even so, it was dangerous. Fierre didn’t know why she was doing it. Maybe because Ryoka was her friend. She was one of the few people who knew who Fierre was who wasn’t a Vampire. And she was…different.

Fierre’s mother, Colfa, hadn’t been able to control her. Himilt, Fierre’s father, had told Fierre to her face that Ryoka was someone to watch. Although, he’d meant that as a warning.

All of this was simply background, though. Fierre just wanted Ryoka to live. And unfortunately, Ryoka didn’t know enough about the way people like the Ratwhisperer worked. Or she’d have never sent—Fierre squinted at her notes.

“Charlay the Dustrider. Nicknamed Dusty Charlay, one of two Centaur City Runners in this region. As good as Ryoka—better for short trips. Why’s she following Ryoka about?”

“That a question I’m asking?”

“No. Shut up and send the [Message].”

Fierre sighed. She massaged her temples, trying to figure it out. What was Belavierr the Stitch Witch doing in the middle of nowhere? It had to be connected to the [Emperor]. Although that was something even the biggest names in the criminal underworld were marking as an unsubstantiated fact.

Part of that might be genuine embarrassment, though. An [Emperor] appearing out of nowhere that not even the best [Informants] and [Brokers] had heard of? It made them all look like fools. It couldn’t be true. And yet, Tyrion Veltras had summoned this [Emperor] himself. And he had trebuchets.

“Either way, that’s why the coven’s there. So how does Ryoka—right. She delivered a package for this [Emperor] in Invrisil last winter. The pieces are there. But—she delivered a bunch of healing potions and stamina potions, all low-grade, to Lady Rie Valerund. With Charlay the Dustrider. At the same time the coven shows up.”

The Vampire girl was used to conspiracies and plots. But this was enough to make her head genuinely explode. It couldn’t be coincidence! Could it? But she couldn’t see through the pattern. All she knew, again, was that Ryoka had erred.

The Ratwhisperer had probably known the coven was in Riverfarm’s area, but Ryoka had inadvertently confirmed them being there. When he’d heard about Belavierr’s presence, he’d immediately seen the same thing Fierre had: an opportunity to earn a lot of gold.

“Where’s my bounty list?”

Fierre hunted around her desk. Gailt didn’t look up or open his eyes.

“Third drawer.”

Fierre checked it. It was the wrong drawer. She looked up, scowling. The [Mage] shrugged.

“Whoops.”

The right drawer held a list of bounties. Some alive, some dead. But also rewards for information. Fierre paged through it. Yup. There wasn’t a reward; there seldom was, but the Ratwhisperer could earn a tidy sum by telling any of the groups out for Belavierr that she was present in Riverfarm.

That was probably what he was doing right now. Reaching out and nudging, say, Wistram. He’d inquire if they were interested in Belavierr’s location, and if they said ‘yes’, they’d begin negotiations for coin. If the Ratwhisperer got what he wanted, he’d tell them. Or go to another name on the list.

Like Roshal. Roshal had a huge information network and gold to burn. If they didn’t pay, there was the Order of Seasons. Or he could just sell the information to other [Brokers] for cheap, waste the monetary value of the information that way.

“Either way, Ryoka gets hurt.”

Fierre stared down at Belavierr’s sheet with her lips compressed tightly. If word went out that someone with that kind of bounty was there, every [Bandit] and desperate [Mercenary] or adventurer in the region would go after Belavierr. Never mind that it was probably suicide to go up against someone with that kind of bounty. They’d try it.

Or if someone like Wistram or Roshal got ahold of the information and had anyone in the area—they practically defined the idea of collateral damage. And who knew what Belavierr would do if angered.

“She hung an entire village.”

“Who?”

Fierre stared at her report.

“The Stitch Witch. She hung them all. Men. Women. Children. In Terandria. Not recently. Not what went down in…but that’s one of her crimes. One.”

The [Mage] looked up. Even he and Fierre, jaded though they were from stories, had to pause.

“Why? Do you know?”

“No. No one does. But she’s a [Witch]. It was probably a deal someone made.”

Gailt shuddered and sat up.

“I don’t get paid to hear that kind of shit. I just send [Messages]. And I sent yours. That old hag in Filk says she’ll get it done. Tonight. You, uh, want confirmation?”

“Yes. Tell me the instant it happens.”

The [Mage] sighed, but he didn’t protest much. He made his way out of the room, and Fierre locked the door after him. Then she sat and put her head in her hands.

“Ryoka…”

If it was anyone but her, Fierre would be selling the information and trying to do it before the Ratwhisperer sold his. It was worth gold, and a lot of it. Fierre had money, but she wasn’t exactly the top player in the region. Thirty gold pieces, or even fifty, would be huge. Instead, she’d spent eight gold to earn her an enemy.

And Fierre couldn’t even feel that bad about it. Gloomily, she began to secure her desk, locking each drawer with a magical key that would keep the files safe. She left the small room, locking up.

She couldn’t work right now. She was too bothered. Frankly, not in the right headspace to be cautious in opening a letter or dealing in some underhanded information trade. She decided she needed to drink some blood and maybe consult with someone. But she really couldn’t do more for Ryoka. Even if she wanted to.

The Vampire girl pulled her hood up as soon as she stepped out of the alleyway. The sun was a painful brightness on her skin. If she stayed out in it exposed, her skin would quickly grow sunburnt or begin peeling. And even with layers on, Fierre hurried through the street and the morning light to get back to the Huntress’ Haven before she began suffering.

At least that was one thing. As Fierre slipped in through the doors—Madain hadn’t left on his daily hunting trip yet—she flitted up to her room and unlocked another chest with a second magical key. She pulled out a glass bottle and saw some of the blood had dried. Annoyed, Fierre uncorked it and drank. She had to scrape the bottle to get it all out, and the blood wasn’t the best.

“Sheep.”

Fierre glowered as she drank. It made her feel better, but she hated sheep. Pig tasted better, but she’d have to go back home to refill her stash. That, or eat a lot of bloody meat, and the [Butchers] got suspicious if you asked for that too often.

“In the old times, we drank the blood of Humans and Gnolls and Drakes. We ruled Izril in the shadows, just as our kin ruled Terandria and even parts of Baleros. Few of us ever went to Chandrar, but we walked in twilight and darkness, even in Wistram’s halls. We were aristocrats and mages, kings and queens. Heroes and legend.”

Bitterly, the Vampire girl quoted old Bamer’s stories. She made a face as she uncorked a water bottle and got the rest of the blood out by adding some water. That tasted horribly, well, watery, but every drop counted. It wasn’t as if Fierre could prey on a stray dog or harass some poor [Farmer] around Reizmelt. If one person saw her, she’d be dead.

She tossed the empty glass jar back into the chest and locked it. Then Fierre lay on her rough bed and stared up at the ceiling. She could hear Madain moving about below, smell him too. Unwashed, hung over—but the smell of his blood ran in Fierre’s nose as well. It smelled sweet.

“Ignore it. You’re full. You’re full.”

Fierre chanted to herself. She wasn’t a baby any longer. She had self-control. That was why her parents had let her move to Reizmelt. But all Vampires longed for that sweet flavor. Real people’s blood. It wouldn’t be hard, would it? If Fierre went downstairs when Madain was blackout drunk. He wouldn’t feel a thing.

“And if he did wake up, he’d squash your skull, Fierre, Vampire or not. He’s Gold-rank. And he could throw a javelin through the entire inn. You’d be dead.”

The girl scolded herself. It didn’t stop the longing. The worst part was that Fierre knew what real blood tasted like.

That was the dirty secret all Vampires probably shared. From Fierre to her older brother—she knew Rivel had done it—to Bamer. And Fierre knew her father had drank blood; it was how her mother had become a Vampire. Fierre shifted uncomfortably at that thought. Ew.

But also—yes. Blood! It was true Vampires of this modern day lived on animal blood. It was safe that way. But they’d all tried real blood. Oh yes, they’d tried it.

Sometimes, it was just a nip if they had a Human friend, like the few trusted communities that lived among Vampires. Or else it was blood obtained covertly, at night, or some other way. Fierre had bribed a girl to give her and Rivel blood; the girl had thought it was for an illicit alchemy potion. And Fierre and Rivel had drank it down, awash with guilty pleasure.

Fierre could still taste it and the two other times she’d had blood until her parents had found out. It was so much better. Not sweet, savory, or any one flavor. Blood differed after all. But it was so much more satisfying than animal blood. It was what Fierre wanted. What she craved.

And yet, it hadn’t changed things. It hadn’t given Fierre the powers of old Vampires or cured her cough. She coughed now, wetly, hearing it rattle in her lungs. She was sick. She was always sick. Her father was sick. Colfa had a rash that hadn’t gone away for two months. Bamer…Bamer was dying. Vampires were all sick. And the Human blood hadn’t helped.

“It never does, Ryoka.”

Fierre imagined Ryoka was sitting across from her, listening in one of their late-night chats. She hadn’t told Ryoka this. She’d seen Ryoka pausing, listening to her talking about being sick. And yes—Fierre had come to the same conclusion Ryoka hadn’t voiced. All Vampires did.

What if them being sick was because they drank animal blood? It was logical! Surely, it was just them having bad food that was weakening them, making them so ill. So over the centuries since they had begun succumbing to illness, there had been experiments. Vampires had tried living only on Human blood, or Drake, or a mix of Drake, Gnoll, Human—all kinds of blood.

They’d tried the purest blood, virginal, attempted to fix their diets. It didn’t stop the sickness. So they had concluded that it wasn’t just the quality of blood. They were just…sick. It wasn’t the type of blood that was throwing Vampires into decline. They were simply losing their powers, weakening for another reason.

“But I thought it would be me. So did Rivel. You should have seen us, Ryoka. The day after we drank blood, we were trying to fly and shape change. Just like Vampires. But the blood only tasted good. Maybe we had a bit more energy, but it doesn’t help. We’re just losing our powers. We have some. Mother can use her eyes. And Bamer can shape change, although he’s old. But no one knows why we’re like this. It’s not the blood.”

She closed her eyes. In her head, Ryoka said something indistinct. Fierre missed her. And she knew that she wanted her friend to live. Because she was Fierre’s friend. Her first, real Human friend.



—–



After a while, Fierre rolled over and got up. She had a few cards left to play. She hadn’t worked this job for nearly four years in Reizmelt and other cities before this for nothing. And now she had something to spend all those little favors and reputation on. She left the inn, hopping out the window into the alleyway since Madain had locked the front door and left.

This was how the underworld worked. At least, in Human cities. Fierre had no idea how Drake cities functioned; apparently, the law was a lot more dangerous. But in the north, the local Watch usually understood there was some space for a criminal element. Organized crime was better than no crime, and so if someone crossed a line, they were nabbed, but the Watch didn’t try to exterminate most gangs.

But it did depend on the gang. And it was gangs and the Rogue’s Law that dominated how the underworld worked from city to city. There was a jargon to it. Fierre knew it by heart. She headed into a pub despite the early morning, keeping to the shadows, in order to make contact with Reizmelt’s top gang.

Call them organizations, associations, loose alliances. But in the end, they were a gang. A group like the Sisters of Chell, who had control over a street, a city, or spanned multiple cities like the Sisters. Some were infamous, others dangerous to cross. Reizmelt’s was local. But dangerous. Still, Fierre regarded this gang as somewhat civilized and intellectual for a gang; they were mostly [Rogues] and [Thieves] as opposed to [Thugs] who’d run protection rackets. This gang just used thievery, eschewing regular conflicts with the law. And they had an actual system in place.

Fierre tapped into it as she went to the [Bartender] in charge of the day-and-night bar, The Blasted Pyromancer. It was a nice bar, and she’d been here often. The [Bartender] saw her coming, and Fierre sat down on the fourth-furthest seat and ordered an ale.

That was it. She’d requested a meeting. How had she done it? Was it the fourth seat? Ordering a light ale? No. It was her giving the [Barman] a look as she sat down. You didn’t need to be stupidly complex. He could read facial expressions. So he smiled and filled a mug from his keg.

“Rough day, Miss Fierre? You’re normally not one for day drinking.”

“Everyone has a bad day, William. And I’m not working as a [Laborer] today. Or helping Miss Kelysta with her alchemy stuff.”

William the [Bartender] raised his brows. Fierre had seen him signaling to the man in the back as he’d filled the keg; they had a false wall. This was the hideout of Reizmelt’s gang. They didn’t really have a name. They were just ‘Reizmelt’s Gang’.

If they started giving themselves names, Fierre would bet they were hoping to expand their territory. And that might mean some serious fighting in back alleys; there were smaller gangs in the city and neighboring cities who might object to a bigger power.

“Well, we’re all entitled to our days off, Miss Fierre. Enjoy the drink. Can I get you something to eat? We’ve got some nice snacking foods. Walnuts, harvested fresh.”

“No thanks.”

Fierre sipped her ale, ignoring it, really. It was hard for her to get drunk. She waited until she saw the man step out of the back and signal her. She followed him into the back as William calmly attended to his bar. Simple, effective.

“What do you want?”

The [Rogue] sitting in the back of the bar might have been the contact on duty, who was something like Fierre for his gang. Or he might have been the leader himself; Fierre hadn’t inquired into the gang’s inner workings. Knowing too much about them might make them paranoid of her if they found out. She sat down with her drink at the table in the back. She eyed the man’s closed book and bowl of cracked walnuts. Then she looked at him.

“I just called for a group to deal with a [Broker] in Filk. They’re going to get him and burn his office down. If he escalates, I’d like my place to be safe. Because I’ll escalate right back.”

The [Rogue] blinked. He looked at Fierre and then sat back. His fingers absently began to twiddle, and he stopped himself. Fierre could even sense his heartbeat this close; it was elevated, but only a bit. He was more curious than anything, but his face didn’t show it.

“Fierre, right? We know your reputation. What’s the big quarrel between you and someone in Filk?”

“He has a secret. And I have a secret. He’s not cooperating. That’s all you need to know.”

He let that go.

“So he gets a lesson. Say it doesn’t work—he has protection.”

Fierre snorted. The Ratwhisperer couldn’t afford that. She doubted he even had an iron door. The [Rogue] nodded.

“Say he does, though, or gets lucky. The Watch shows up, and he doesn’t get the hint. What’s your aim?”

“I’ll settle it. First time’s a warning. Second time he’s gone.”

This time, the man blinked. He looked Fierre up and down.

“How much trouble are we expecting?”

“He’d make an offer. I doubt he can afford more than ten gold either way. Twenty if he’s desperate?”

The [Rogue] thought about this.

“We can handle that. No one’ll come knocking. But you owe us a tenth of what the bounty was.”

“Good. Thank you.”

Negotiations were done. Fierre stood up. If anyone accepted the bounty, the gold would be poorly spent. Reizmelt’s gang would make it clear those hired had to forfeit the gold—or they could settle things. Either way, Fierre was protected.

There were harsh, binding oaths that might obligate someone to fulfill their promise at the cost of their lives—blood promises or vows made by the Rogue’s Law. But the Ratwhisperer wouldn’t be able to get anyone to make that kind of agreement. Fierre would lean on him until he gave in. Or she’d stop him cold.

It was what she could do for Ryoka. As for Belavierr—Fierre hesitated. She looked at the [Rogue] sitting there. He glanced up at her.

“Anything else?”

What would the price be to take out Belavierr, the Stitch Witch? Fierre didn’t ask because the price would be more than she could afford if she sold every bit of information she owned. Yes, the criminals of the north had specialized groups. From the Assassin’s Guild to gangs or individuals who could take out people for a price.

But if Fierre had to come up with a list of gangs who’d take that kind of request, it was a short, short list. And none of them, from the Gentlemen Callers, who were part of the Brotherhood of Serendipitous Meetings, to the might of the Blackrock Collective in First Landing, or the Vanishers, were based around Filk. She couldn’t help Ryoka that way.

Unless someone who was hunting her went after the [Witch]. But if it was Roshal or Wistram—no. And who else could do that? Fierre shook her head, realizing the [Rogue] was waiting.

“Nothing. Thanks.”

She left the room, the bar, and then had to go back and return the mug to William. He gave her a concerned look, but Fierre was too preoccupied to notice. She spent the rest of the day in her office, listlessly opening two letters and exchanging a secret about a [Clerk] in Reizmelt planning on leaving the city with her employer’s gold to have a romantic getaway with her significant other.

She really shouldn’t have put that in writing—or at least, paid a City Runner for an urgent delivery. They tended to want to know why most of the time. Fierre sold that tidbit to the employer in question via the Merchant’s Guild, who was only too happy to protect their people and offer Fierre a nice little bounty.

But she was really waiting. Waiting for a response from Daufica. Impatiently—but Fierre knew better than to prod the woman. Still, Fierre was counting the hours. How long until the Ratwhisperer would conclude negotiations with Wistram or whoever he was trying to sell the information to? She could just imagine him trying to get the best deal; even if he was rushing, it would take him a while. It would for her.

But maybe he would leap at the first offer? She should have asked Daufica to check if he’d sold anything or contacted the Ratwhisperer’s [Mage]. But that would tip them off that there was something valuable he possessed—

It was night, and Fierre stomped back to the Huntress’ Haven without hearing from Gailt. Mad Madain and Alber took one look at Fierre’s face and didn’t say anything as she ate a bloody steak. She didn’t linger on it and went up to her bed. And lay there, restlessly, for two hours until she heard someone throw a rock at her shutters.

“Fierre. Psst. Fierre.”

Gailt took a step back as Fierre threw open the windows and then jumped down onto the street. He stared wide-eyed at her, but Fierre was too caught up to come up with an excuse. Ryoka could do it, why not her?

“What? Did Daufica do it? What took her so long?”

The [Mage] scrubbed at his hair unsteadily. He was still drunk. But his voice was uncharacteristically serious.

“She didn’t do it, Fierre. I mean…the Ratwhisperer’s, uh, dead.”

“What? How? Did they go too far?”

Fierre’s stomach lurched. Had Daufica’s people killed the [Fence]? She hadn’t wanted to do that. She’d been prepared to, but—no, maybe this was a good thing. The cold part of her, the part she thought of as really Vampire, told her that it was for the best. Yes, if he was dead, he couldn’t tell. But she stopped as she saw Gailt shake his head.

“It wasn’t her people. They never got a chance. The Watch was already there, and two of Daufica’s [Thugs] were caught. She’s not charging you. But you’re not getting your gold back—”

“I don’t care about that!”

Fierre did, but it was a lesser concern. She hissed at Gailt, looking down the alleyway.

“Who killed him, then?”

The [Mage] gulped.

“They think it was magic. A curse.”

The Vampire girl paused. Only now did she see Gailt fully in the moonlight. He was pale. Sweating. He smelled afraid, even through the alcohol. He went on, stumbling over the words.

“His tongue was sewn to the roof of his mouth. Blocked his throat. His nose was also sewn shut. He choked to death.”

Fierre felt a cold chill run through her body. And Vampires were already cold. She hesitated, her tongue touching her canines uneasily.

“Did they—did the Watch—maybe it was someone else?”

Gailt shook his head.

“He was in a locked room. And the [Mage] they brought in said there was serious magic. Serious. Fierre, that’s a curse. I’d know it anywhere. The kind the big gangs use. If it was Bela—”

He choked on the words. Changed them.

“The Stitch Witch, maybe she put a curse on…?”

On anyone trying to rat her out? Oh yes. Fierre felt another chill. She’d heard of curses like that. But that was serious magic. But this was a serious [Witch]. Gailt was licking his teeth.

“I’m—this is deep, Fierre. Daufica was telling me about it. You could see the Ratwhisperer’s face. Everyone in Filk is talking about it. Look, I’m not being paid to—”

“I want you to send a [Message].”

“To Daufica? I don’t know if she’ll pick up. She’s really upset—”

“To Ryoka. Tell her what happened. Send a spell to the [Mage] in Riverfarm and ask her for a reply.”

Fierre saw Gailt gulp.

“But that’s where she is. I—I don’t think—”

“Gailt. There’s no curse that would work on you telling her how the [Fence] died. Don’t even mention B—her name. There’s no way you’ll be affected. Magic isn’t that broad.”

Fierre said that, but she watched Gailt send the spell nervously. And he was so uneasy that she eventually had to offer to buy him a drink. They made their way to The Blasted Pyromancer, and he proceeded to drink himself nearly into oblivion. But he managed to receive the [Message] that came back.

He wrote it down; ironically, he could write it even when he slurred his words beyond comprehension. Fierre stared at the [Message] as Gailt passed out on the table. She stood up, reading it.



Everything’s fine. She’s dangerous, but I think it’s safe for us. I’ll be here a bit longer. Don’t cross her, Fierre. And don’t worry about me. I have to do this. Thanks for the help.



–Ryoka



Fierre pondered over the message several times in her room. Us. Ryoka thought it was safe after hearing that? Why did she have to do it? What did this [Emperor] want from her? It was maddening, and Fierre was close to biting a hole in her pillow over it. But she eventually passed off into an uneasy sleep because she’d done what she could. Ratwhisperer was dead. And the Stitch Witch’s spell had killed him.

Only one thought woke Fierre, as thoughts did, slamming into her with the weight of sudden realization. She sat up in the middle of the night.

“So who was Ratwhisperer talking to when he died?”

She stared into other darkness, as bright as day for her. And she wondered. But the Vampire girl could only lay back in bed, eyes wide open. She was too far away. She didn’t know what was happening in Riverfarm. And there were things that made even Vampires uneasy. If that was so, there was another truism.

Everyone had their enemies. And everything could die.





Day 62 – Talia



Her full name and title was Lady-Dame Talia Kallinad, Knight of the Summer. But in practice, she was Dame Talia or just Talia among friends. Before she’d left Baleros, she’d been pleasantly surprised to hear her younger brother, the [Strategist] and current pride of the Kallinad house, Wil, call her ‘Tal’, as if they were children.

But that was nearly a week and a half ago, and Talia had been stuck with ‘Dame Talia’ or ‘your Knightship’ by the mocking [Sailors]/[Pirates] on the long trip back to Terandria. She missed her brother already, but she was still aglow with pride. All of her family was; the household was still buzzing with talk of the Titan’s game at Daquin and the events therein.

No one was talking about Liscor’s election, or even Pallass’ upcoming election. Izril was totally off the map in terms of popular discourse among the social circles of Terandria. The talk of the day was still on Chandrar and the war between Tiqr and the alliance of nations that had declared war on the Empress of Beasts.

Day by day, more provinces were being seized, and the question was if the Empress would fight to the death or surrender, or if Flos, the King of Destruction, would make his move. Twice now, his forces had clashed on the border of Nerrhavia’s Fall in ‘accidental skirmishes’, but the gigantic kingdom had repulsed Flos both times, even if they’d gotten the worst of the skirmishes.

Some had argued that invalidated his claim to peace, but no one could say who’d started each skirmish. And the fact that he hadn’t declared war as Tiqr was slowly consumed was an argument that he was keeping his vow.

But that was global politics. You could also point to a very nasty incident between House Kallinad and another rival house, a minor war between two kingdoms in Terandria, or news of a Gold-rank team slaying a Manticore—the kind of thing Terandrians talked about. But the biggest event everyone was firm on was Daquin’s game. Talia smiled every time they talked about it because she had been there. And it had been a member of House Kallinad that had won!

Okay, not ‘won’. It was that scrawny Lizardgirl covered in sewer waste who’d technically won. But anyone with an eye had seen that it was Wil’s daring strategy, bringing four warships from another continent to challenge the Iron Vanguard, that had provided her with an opportunity to win!

Talia couldn’t help but brag about it to everyone she met. He had challenged Tulm the Mithril, legend of the Iron Vanguard, and held his own! For his deeds, the Titan of Baleros had acknowledged the feat and granted Wil the victor’s prize along with the Lizardgirl: the right to ask any one question he wanted.

That was worth the cost of sending so many [Soldiers] abroad. It was even worth the cost of prevailing on so many [Knights] to take part in the war game as well. House Kallinad stood to gain far more than they had spent, in fame and prestige alone, but also by a good question if Wil asked it.

Talia knew her father had high hopes for Wil. She did too. But as she strode through the bright courtyard that was her true home, not the ancestral Kallinad residence, Talia wondered if her Order saw things the same way.

The bright, vivid courtyard gave Talia the impression she was walking through fire, though she’d walked this spot hundreds of times. The courtyard of the Season of Summer was scrupulously maintained, and the color scheme designed to reflect yellows and reds and oranges, the color of fire, of summer.

It was beautiful walking on the colorful flagstones or stopping between the huge, everburning braziers that meant this part of the Order’s fortress-grounds would never be dark. Talia walked on into the center of the vast keep. She passed by frescos decorated with heroes of old, ceremonial armor, some pierced where their wearers had died or decorated in outdated fashions, passed a garden in full bloom, property of the Season of Spring, and then one of the general courtyards.

Talia stopped to watch the dozens of [Knights] and [Squires] training there, dueling with sword and shield or mace or two-handed weapons under the wary eye of instructors. She smiled.

“Home.”

Some of the [Knights] walking with Talia chuckled. They walked on, their armor glinting with various shades. Many wore identical colors, the bright green and yellow and blue of the [Spring Knights], or the reds and purples and silver of the Season of Autumn.

A few had Talia’s colors, although she had personalized her armor. Still, she wore the gold and orange and hints of white proudly. She was a [Summer Knight], twenty-eight, and a full member of her Order. She looked around as her fellow [Knights] walked on. It had been a long journey, and they had just arrived in their order’s stronghold after disembarking in Kallinad harbors.

They were no doubt eager to rest and return, but Talia lingered a while, taking it all in. The sprawling fortress-keep was made of four quarters, each to one season, and the center was neutral ground. And it was as iconic in its way as any of Terandria’s venerated treasures for its legacy and the history of the warriors who called it home.

This was the Order of Seasons. Of the many [Knight] orders of Terandria, famed for their ancient traditions and lineages, the Order of Seasons was still one of the most iconic. They were a [Knighthood] of four distinct factions, one to each season, and their ranks were vast and their deeds famous in history. They were long allies with a number of nations and noble houses. Enough so that over a hundred had answered House Kallinad’s call for aid. Well, there were practical reasons too.

“Admiring your return, Dame Talia? Just remember that our Knight-Commander will want to see you.”

An older man spoke behind Talia. She turned and saw Sir Kelm, helmetless but wearing his armor, nodding towards her. She smiled.

“Of course, Sir Kelm. I only hope he’ll judge our expedition worthy. We brought back no trophies, but I like to think we won acclaim for our Order!”

The older [Knight] smiled, but a touch ruefully.

“For House Kallinad, certainly. I only wish there weren’t so many of these…magical reproductions of our [Knights] toppling from their horses. The Iron Vanguard can certainly boast that its ranks can stand up against our Order.”

That stung Talia’s pride. She swept at her brown hair, vexed, before touching the sword at her side.

“Only because we weren’t using lances and we couldn’t charge as hard as if we were on the battlefield, Sir Kelm!”

Patiently, the older [Knight] shook his head.

“And if we had? The Iron Vanguard didn’t employ its weapons either. I’m afraid we underestimated the games at Daquin. Certainly, we can claim a victory, but I imagine our Commander might object to the perceived failings of our order.”

Talia bit her lip. It was a fair point and calmly made. She looked at Sir Kelm and flushed, knowing he’d bear the brunt of that objection if it came. He’d backed her request when she made it, and he was the highest-level and most senior [Knight] who’d led the Order of Seasons in Daquin.

Sir Kelm was a Knight of the Autumn, or a Fall Knight. Or an [Autumn Knight] if you wanted to be precise, but ‘Fall Knight’ was a joke the younger members of the Order sometimes used to refer to the lower level of skill in combat the Knights of the Autumn possessed. They were scholars or [Knights] who pursued projects or simply took to magic more than most [Knights].

But there was nothing scholarly about Sir Kelm’s build. He was a fine member of his Season; it was only some of the junior members who tended to lose every competition based on physical strength. Still, more than half of the [Knights] in Daquin had been from his order, and he nodded, a chagrined smile on his face.

“I will make my report to Knight-Commander Calirn, of course, but he requested you first.”

Talia cleared her throat, embarrassed.

“Sir Kelm, had it not been for you volunteering your Season’s [Knights], we surely wouldn’t have been able to push the Iron Vanguard and allow Wil to claim his victory. If there was any fault, it was only that we underestimated Tulm the Mithril himself.”

She was relieved when the [Autumn Knight] laughed and shook his head. He was graying, but his class and levels made him spry as he walked with her further into the keep.

“It’s kindly said, Talia. But I won’t make excuses. I thought the daring of our arrival would be enough, but I should have asked for more of your Season rather than trusted to the Autumn Knights. It is a lesson we will take to heart. And hopefully watching our Season being unhorsed again and again by Dullahans will convince my Season to spend as much time in the practice courts or on the grounds as in the libraries.”

Talia nodded, smiling slightly. There was no real enmity between the four Seasons, but each one had their strengths and weaknesses. They were strongest united, but it was true that a force of [Autumn Knights] had been a mistake. Knights of the Summer or Spring would have been ideal, with a few Knights of the Winter mixed in, even.

“Once again, though, Sir Kelm, House Kallinad owes the Order and your Season a debt. We’ll surely repay it.”

Sir Kelm waved that away as he stopped at an intersection. The Season of Autumn’s grounds lay beyond, and Talia saw tinted glass, costly but beautiful, creating shadows and a quieter, fall ambiance in the corridor beyond. Sir Kelm smiled as he turned to her.

“Our alliance is an old one. Just ask a proper question of the Titan. And tell us what the answer was!”

“If possible, Sir Kelm.”

Talia bowed, wondering if she could. Wil had been told to ask something for House Kallinad. Talia had argued that the Order deserved part of the question’s benefit, but she’d been overruled by her father. Sir Kelm smiled and departed. That left Talia to find the Knight-Commander of the Order of Seasons.

You could write a book about the Order of Seasons. In fact, there were several in the libraries that the [Autumn Knights] liked to frequent. But in general, the Order of Seasons was comprised thusly: four Seasons operated from their headquarters in Terandria, east and south on the continent, near Kallinad lands, who occupied a small southeastern coastal area famed for its wealth in shipping.

Between the vast forests that were owned by the order, which stretched to the untamed cavernous hills that sometimes produced Goblins or other monsters, and the rockier terrain that led to the coastal cliffs, which provided parts of Terandria with natural defenses, the Order of Seasons had built its home in the heart of the forest where once a half-Elven empire had risen, countless ages ago. Noble houses and even sometimes royalty sent aspiring [Knights] or children to become members of the Order of Seasons, along with the gifted applicants from across the continent.

There were at least two thousand Seasonal [Knights] in the headquarters at any given time, and far more were abroad, fighting in armies, crusading, or fulfilling functions across Terandria and the world. It was a famous order, and each Season wielded considerable power. And each had their own Grandmaster. Talia answered to hers, the Summer’s Champion, but she could also be commanded by senior members of other Seasons at need. In the stronghold of the Order, another figure could command even the Grandmasters, as a first among equals.

He was Knight-Commander Calirn. Talia normally expected him to be fulfilling some duty of command, which was often pressing, such as speaking with a monarch or seeing to an argument between the Seasons. But as she strode into the center of the keep, she heard a clamor.

Talia saw an [Autumn Knight], dressed in robes rather than armor, sprinting past her. And Talia, born to action, took off, following. Because the other woman was running straight into the heart of the cathedral that was the domain of the Knight-Commander.

“Where is the Knight-Commander? I have a [Message] for him!”

“In the War Room!”

A [Servant] answered, wide-eyed as the [Autumn Knight] shouted at her. The young woman ran left, and Talia overtook her. She knew the location by heart and burst into one of the central war rooms at the same time as the [Autumn Knight]. She blinked as she threw open the grand double doors and felt the freezing around her. She exhaled and saw a cloud of vapor—and a man, standing in cold, grey and pale blue clothing next to a pair of shivering [Servants]. He turned and looked up.

“Dame Talia?”

The [Autumn Knight] instantly bowed.

“Knight-Commander Calirn!”

The [Autumn Knight] stopped and shivered. Calirn blinked and seemed to notice the cold in the room. He did nothing, but Talia felt the air warming. She was unaffected; her armor was still warm despite the cold, but the two [Servants] and [Autumn Knight] relaxed at once. Calirn nodded to Talia and then promptly ignored her.

“You have another report, Dame Wera?”

The Fall Knight nodded, breathless.

“I have, Knight-Commander. The [Message] came to our Order through our general receiver, not—”

She gestured to one of the [Servants], who was holding a magical scroll that could be used to facilitate communications more smoothly. Calirn frowned.

“Why? We were in communication with the [Broker] directly. What has changed?”

“[Broker]?”

Talia blinked. The Order of Season was speaking with a [Broker]? But she listened as the [Autumn Knight] shook her head and searched for words.

“Dead, Knight-Commander Calirn. He’s dead.”

The Knight-Commander’s pale grey eyes focused on the [Autumn Knight]. And the chill that emanated from him was biting. Intense. Talia had known Knight-Commander Calirn for years, if not personally. She had seldom seen him like this. He was a Knight of the Winter, of course. He spoke one word.

“How?”

“A curse, Knight-Commander. Apparently, the man was found with his tongue stitched—to the roof of his mouth. His nose was sewn shut, and he died—”

One of the [Servants] made a faint sound. Talia put her hand on her sword uneasily. What was this? Calirn’s expression darkened.

“Then it may well be her. Or one of her ruses to distract the hunters on her trail. Was there anything else?”

The [Autumn Knight] shook her head.

“No, Knight-Commander. Just a request for gold. It was one of his associates that sent the message—”

“Did they say where the Stitch Witch was? Did they confirm the rumor?”

“No. They didn’t.”

The woman shook her head again. Calirn said nothing, but his expression was thunderous. And Talia started.

The Stitch Witch? The name was familiar. Then Calirn spoke.

“Belavierr. This has her magic about it. But if no one can confirm it was actually her, then it could be another one of her thousand misdirections. We are chasing shadows, and I refuse to contact Ser Raim with so little evidence.”

Then it hit Talia. She looked at Calirn as wide-eyed as the [Autumn Knight]. The female [Knight] reached up for her spectacles that had fallen off her nose in her run here.

“The Stitch Witch herself. Belavierr. The witch of legends—the one they said was in Noelictus, Knight-Commander? Her?”

“Perhaps.”

That was all Calirn said. Talia couldn’t hold it in anymore. She burst out, looking from Calirn to the [Autumn Knight].

“Knight-Commander! Is it really Belavierr? The Spider? The enemy of our Order?”

If there were a list of infamous names of enemies of the Order of Seasons, only a few were names and not entire organizations. Of them—Belavierr. People didn’t even tell children’s stories about her in Terandria. They were too terrifying. The [Autumn Knight] nodded, excited rather than scared.

“The one who cursed the Griffin Prince, Ostevien? The murderess who destroyed the city of Halen overnight? The—”

“I see you recall her infamy, Dame Talia, Dame Wera. Yes. That is Belavierr.”

The censure in Calirn’s voice made Talia blush. She realized she was passing into rudeness and bowed.

“I apologize, Knight-Commander! I didn’t mean to intrude, but I saw Dame Wera running, and you had summoned me upon our return. I come from Daquin, where we struck a victory for our Order!”

She looked up hopefully. Calirn stared at her.

“Daquin?”

She paused. [Knight] Wera and the two [Servants] were giving her wide-eyed looks. They’d probably seen the broadcast, but Calirn just looked blank. Talia coughed lightly.

“The…game at Daquin, Knight-Commander? The one organized by the Titan?”

He paused and nodded.

“Of course. The game. Congratulations, Dame Talia. I understand the Summer’s Champion is quite pleased. The Fall’s Sentinel has reservations as to the outcome. As do I. I would speak with you about the expedition, but later. I must attend to this.”

He abruptly turned to one of the [Servants].

“If the [Broker] in Filk is dead, the information must be confirmed. Find me a list of [Informants] across Izril. Prepare a [Message] requesting confirmation of the Stitch Witch. One that can be verified by truth spell.”

The [Servant] nodded and rushed out of the room. Talia was taken aback, but not by much. The brusqueness and attitude were emblematic of Calirn’s order. He was a [Winter Knight], one of the few who stayed for any length in the Order’s headquarters.

Knights of the Winter were solitary, independent. Even if their talents led them to take command of armies, they were by nature alone. For in the cruelest colds, in the desolation of the deepest winters, these few moved alone. Accordingly, they were often the most senior, [Knights] who had passed through all four seasons or abandoned their old season as they aged.

True, some [Knights] were freshly inducted into that branch of the order due to personality or becoming squires or aides to senior members, but it was still the smallest of the four seasons. Some said they were the most powerful, and perhaps they were, individually. But no [Knight] was beyond any other full member, even the Knight-Commander, so Talia spoke up.

“By your leave, Knight-Commander, if it is Belavierr the Stitch Witch, give me leave to assemble a lance immediately! We can prepare a vessel and ride for Kallinad’s harbors at once! The [Captain] that brought us from Baleros is likely still in port. If we [Messaged] them, we could be landing on any part of Izril in—”

“Dame Talia. This is not a matter for junior members of the Order of Seasons. The Witch of Webs has already been pursued and put to flight. This is not your battle.”

Calirn’s voice was cold and flat. Talia paused. Calirn turned to Dame Wera.

“Summon the Grandmasters.”

The [Autumn Knight] had been dancing with the same eagerness as Talia, about to ask her own questions. At Calirn’s words, she went pale. She looked at the Knight-Commander, then turned and ran. Talia stared. It was one person! The four Grandmasters weren’t summoned like this except for emergencies! But the Stitch Witch had killed more [Knights] of the Order of Seasons than…Calirn was looking at her.

“Knight-Commander? Surely we should put a lance on alert if there is even a chance of this rumor being true? Or any active-duty members near this city of Filk?”

It occurred to Talia she didn’t know where that was. She tried to study the maps on the war room out of the corner of her eye. Where was it on Izril? Calirn’s voice was brisk.

“A ship would not catch the Stitch Witch, Dame Talia. No matter how fast the [Captain]. Reaching Izril, thousands of miles away, is simply untenable given the time frame. More importantly, I will not send an entire lance to their deaths, Summer Knight Talia. Or you.”

Crimson flared in her cheeks at the implication.

“Ser Calirn! You believe a lance of Spring and Summer Knights would fail to dispatch a single [Witch]?”

Knights of the Spring and Summer were rightly regarded as the true might of the Order of Seasons. The Knights of the Spring were most plentiful, being comprised of new [Knights]; those who fought en masse in wars or were simply green as their season.

Some were veterans, of course, but theirs was a youthful Season full of energy and drive. And it was a logical step for experienced Knights of the Spring who had gone through a few years of actual combat to become Knights of the Summer. They were the pinnacle of martial might. They brought battle to evil where it was found. The Summer Knights crusaded to other continents or slew terrible monsters in their lairs.

Knight-Commander Calirn surely knew all this. But was he calling for a small team of [Winter Knights]? He shook his head.

“I would not pit a full lance of my brethren of the winter against her. The Stitch Witch is no foe that can be defeated by sheer numbers. She would consume any number of Knights of the Spring. And the Autumnal Season has pitted their magic against her and lost in times past. Only one member of our order has ever wounded her in any way.”

That drew Talia up. And made her uneasy for the first time so far. The way Calirn talked about Belavierr was too familiar. She was just one of those legends for Talia. But—she suddenly realized there was frost on the walls. It was so cold that even she shivered.

Then the door blew open. The frost melted as a man dressed in gold blasted into the room. The Summer’s Champion, the Grandmaster of Talia’s Season, strode over to Calirn. His hair was as fiery as his temperament. He was the youngest of all four Grandmasters, ironically, and that meant he was in his late forties. He spoke curtly, ignoring Talia, his eyes locked on Calirn.

“Is it true? The Stitch Witch has been sighted?”

“Yes.”

That was all. The Summer’s Champion spoke an oath, and the temperature in the room shot up. Calirn stared at him, and the Summer’s Champion recalled himself. Both controlled their auras, and Talia stepped back.

“Grandmaster—”

“Dame Talia? You’ve returned?”

The Grandmaster of Summer turned to her, surprised. Then he glanced at Calirn.

“Congratulations will have to wait, Dame Talia. We must attend to this. The Stitch Witch—”

“Are you sure it’s her? I thought once she was driven from that village we wouldn’t see her for another thousand years. Should we contact Ailendamus? Noelictus?”

A woman walked into the room. She was the Spring’s Warden, and somehow she seemed younger than her fifty years of age. She still looked vibrant, a flower blooming. Calirn looked up as the Spring’s Warden responded.

“The other two are hurrying here, but they will be at least ten minutes each. The Winter’s Watcher is three miles distant.”

The Knight-Commander nodded.

“I see. Then we begin. Dame Talia—remain if you wish. But remain silent. No, I don’t believe it is time to alarm either nation yet…”

He didn’t send her away, which surprised only Talia. The two Grandmasters stepped forwards. They embodied their titles as some of the highest-level [Knights] of their classes. They listened as Calirn spoke.

“…This is what we know. A [Broker] contacted the Order of Seasons claiming to have credible knowledge of where the Stitch Witch was present. He swore under truth spell he could identify her location beyond reasonable doubt; he had sent someone to verify her description.”

The Summer’s Champion crossed his arms skeptically.

“And he was sure?”

“Beyond reasonable doubt. He could still try to cheat the truth spell.”

The Spring’s Warden frowned. Calirn waved their objections aside.

“The agent the [Broker] sent was sure. And if it was her—it would not be hard to tell.”

The two Grandmasters paused, then nodded. Talia looked from face to face. The Spring’s Warden was distant, troubled, but the Summer’s Champion burned. And Knight-Commander Calirn’s face—they had met her, it seemed. Talia remembered another tale of Belavierr. But they were tales. This was a frightening reality.

The Summer’s Champion turned, restlessly regarding the maps on the walls.

“Where is Ser Raim? He and the Hunter’s Guild have been searching. This is his battle, though we should have armies at his back again. He almost had her, and we thought her fled, in hiding. How is she in Izril so fast? What ship did she take?”

The Knight-Commander’s voice was soft.

“She wouldn’t need a ship.”

The Spring’s Warden nodded.

“An entire continent away. And yet, if it is true… damnation. Who could we call upon? House Veltras? All the Five Families? Would they even understand the urgency of the task?”

The [Servant] that Calirn had sent to send the [Messages] returned, breathless. He stopped still when he saw two of the Grandmasters in the room. Calirn looked at him.

“Send word to the Fall’s Sentinel to prepare his Season for a grand ritual spell. I do not know when or if it must be cast. Inform the Academy of Wistram that we may need their assistance. And tell Ser Raim to return to the Order in all haste. Request the Hunter’s Guild to send their highest-level experts with Ser Raim. We cannot muster an army if she is moving quickly. We must trust Raim to finish this with a small group. But I will give him that chance.”

“You’re serious about this?”

Calirn ignored the Summer’s Champion’s incredulous look. He kept giving orders as the [Servant]’s eyes flickered, memorizing each word.

“Have the [Informants] information on the Stitch Witch?”

“All the replies we have collected claim ignorance, Knight-Commander.”

Calirn nodded.

“In that case, get in contact with this [Fence]’s acquaintances. Anyone who might be able to verify the Stitch Witch’s whereabouts. Offer a bounty. A substantial one.”

The [Servant] nodded, waited, and then raced off. Talia looked around. And the two Grandmasters exchanged a glance. A grand ritual spell? Recalling the active hunters for Belavierr? It could only mean one thing.

He thought it was her. Greysten mused out loud, trying to second-guess a trick.

“It could be a ruse. She’s done the same before to throw us off.”

“Yes. But her curses kill those who attempt to betray her whereabouts. And Izril—it fits one other piece of information I was given by the [Broker]. There is a coven there. Seeking to bargain with an [Emperor].”

Greysten laughed incredulously.

“An [Emperor]? Why would one be in Izril—”

The Spring’s Warden impatiently spoke over him.

“If it is her, how can we confirm it? Using a grand ritual would be a waste of resources if we err—”

Calirn interrupted the two.

“We must hope that one of the [Informants] has the means to communicate her whereabouts or confirm her presence despite the curse. But every effort must be taken or else she will slip through the Order’s fingers again. We prepare but do not act unless we are certain.”

He looked pointedly at the Spring’s Warden. She nodded after a moment. Talia was almost spellbound. But she couldn’t help it. She burst out, and all three [Knights] turned to her.

“Ser Calirn, do you believe Ser Raim is up to the task if it is the Stitch Witch herself? Alone?”

She knew he was of her Season, but like many [Knights], she had never met him personally. And Calirn had refused to send a lance! The Summer’s Champion made an incredulous sound.

“Dame Talia, you’ve not met Ser Raim, have you?”

“I have not, Grandmaster.”

Talia bit her tongue. The Summer’s Champion looked at Calirn, and the Knight-Commander answered for him.

“Ser Raim has exceeded Level 50 and is thus one of the finest members of the order. You, Lady Talia, are over twenty levels below him. There is no comparison. Moreover, he has the Skill to put an end to the Stitch Witch himself. And the will. He injured her once this winter. She fled his flame.”

Level 50? Talia was awestruck. But she didn’t even know if the heads of each season had reached that level! Ser Greysten had been over Level 40 and therefore one of the best [Knights] in the Order of Seasons. This should have made Ser Raim a legend to all, a candidate for honorary positions like the Thousand Lances. Was this recent?

She wanted to ask, but Talia had embarrassed herself enough. The Spring’s Warden was nodding. There was no malice as she explained to Talia, as if the [Knight] were still in the Season of Spring.

“Dame Talia, the Stitch Witch is a foe our Order has faced before. Sporadically, yes, over the decades.”

“Centuries.”

She nodded.

“Even so. We have experience in dealing with her, and we know a few of her weaknesses and how she preys on others. One aspect we are certain of is that her command of fabric and thread is unmatched. If we sent a full lance against her, even were they all veterans over Level 30, she could choke many to death purely with the threads in their garb. She is unassailable by low-level [Knights]. The team hunting her, which includes Ser Raim as our representative, have all taken precautions against her.”

“The Hunter’s Guild seeks her as well. Their classes are specialized. In truth, our Order keeps only one member on her trail; she is elusive to the point that it bleeds resources attempting to find her.”

The Summer’s Champion explained. Talia nodded.

“Then what drives Ser Raim to follow the Stitch Witch?”

Both Grandmasters quieted. The Summer’s Champion folded his arms. And the Spring’s Warden replied.

“She slew his fiancée, Knight of the Autumn Dame Fale. Years ago. Almost a decade, in fact.”

It was all that needed to be said. Calirn turned. He had been plotting the distance from the Order’s headquarters to Filk on a map.

“So. She is no foe to be underestimated. And the distance is vast. The information uncertain. Perhaps this is one of her many games or illusions. But if it is not—the Stitch Witch has blighted Terandria. Aside from the Necromancer, she is one of the few ancient foes of our era. It is a debt older than you or I that our Order owes her. I would see it settled.”

All the [Knights] nodded at that. It was Talia who felt a stirring of apprehension. To say it like that put Belavierr on the same level as Az’kerash, the monster who had died during the Second Antinium War. And he had killed just as many of the Order’s [Knights]. The Season of Summer had lost nearly two hundred [Knights] to him. And they would send one if Belavierr was really there? She looked at Knight-Commander Calirn.

“Can it be done, then? If it’s her—”

His face was grave. Bitter. Focused. Then Calirn looked up. He saw Talia’s face. Suddenly—he smiled. Talia stopped, and Calirn straightened. The Knight-Commander nodded once.

“Yes, Dame Talia Kallinad. It can be done. Our Order has slain Dragons and brought low beasts of every ilk. We have ended worse monsters than Belavierr the Stitch Witch. But we are not all-powerful, or even foremost. We are one of many, which is why we temper our strength of arms with humility. Forge alliances with other Knight-Orders and noble houses and kingdoms. It is why we would dedicate multiple lances of [Knights] to a competition in Baleros.”

Talia saw the Spring’s Warden smile and heard the Summer’s Champion laugh. Calirn was calmer. Cooler, like frost. But not without passion. The [Servant] came rushing into the room, followed hot on his heels by two more, all calling out [Messages] from Ser Raim, the Hunter’s Guild, queries, replies—Ser Calirn ignored them as the other two Grandmasters snapped replies. He looked at Talia, speaking as one [Knight] to another.

“We are not all-powerful. So you rightly ask if one [Knight] can defeat her alone when many would fail. I say yes. Because it is this [Knight]. And his will would burn even a monster of aeons. He has the strength. He was a burnt coal of a man a year ago. I spoke to him after his victory this winter, and his fury was a tempest no winter could stand against.”

Talia could only bow her head in reply. Her earlier excitement was gone, put out by the [Winter Knight]. But she felt a colder resolve, the kind that came from his Season. For once, she thought it might be right to become a [Winter Knight] in time. She had thought she would burn forever, but there was an ageless certainty to Calirn’s face. A cold eternity of resolve.

Talia retreated as the Grandmasters and Knight-Commander turned to preparing for a battle that might not come. An if. A chance to slay a nightmare, a dark legend.

“Dame Talia.”

She turned at the doors. Knight-Commander Calirn regarded her gravely. He raised a finger and pointed to a map of the Order’s stronghold and the nearby area, tracing a long journey to the north and east.

“If you wish it, ride out to meet Ser Raim. Otherwise, you will wait in reserve. For make no mistake: if she is there, we will strike.

Calirn paused, and his face was heavy.

“The Witch of Webs, the Spider—our foe of many names seldom gives a chance to give her battle, let alone on equal grounds. If I could, I would prevail on the other foes who have a right to her. Noelictus’ armies, Ailendamus’ forces, the entire Hunter’s Guild, and [Knights] far and wide. But if we can only send one, it will be Ser Raim. If you doubt my judgment, look him in the eyes, then face me, and I will grant your request in fullness.”

The words chilled Talia and sent her running for the stables. She took the first horse she could find and headed for the roads.

The headquarters of all four seasons were coming to life with the news. But Talia rode past [Knights] coming back and asking what was going on.

Filled with Knight-Commander Calirn’s words, Talia urged her horse onwards, covering distance as fast as she could. Hours of riding to meet this man who could do what a company of [Knights] could not.

And still, she made little distance compared to the party that raced towards the Order of Seasons. They covered ground like lightning. No…

Talia paused as she neared the pass that led out of the Order of Seasons’ territory and down into the Kingdom of Pheislant. She had thought, impulsively, to ride out for days to meet this party, spend time in the company of Ser Raim and whatever Hunters of Noelictus he’d brought.

Then she realized Calirn had been warning her to take this chance for any time at all. For she saw the hunters of the Witch of Webs. From above, they looked like a shiver running through the forests, which produced another down her spine.

Below, she could see something moving, leaving tree branches swaying, so fast that birds were flying into the distance, miles upon miles away. Something raced through the very forests at a speed beyond comprehension.

“Summer fades.”

A group burst from the edges of the forest nearest the Order of Season’s keep. From above, Talia couldn’t count their number; they were tiny. She would have missed them but for that lightning-quick passage. And…even from above, her eyes strayed to a single mote of orange and yellow. Colors of the summer.

That man, the single bright figure among black-clad [Hunters], burned. His aura looked to set the forests aflame. Like a burning torch. Like wrath and the setting sun; Talia shaded her eyes and had to look away. Even when she turned back, wiping at streaming eyes, the brightness was only growing.

Heading her way. Slower now, Talia rode down the pass towards those swift-moving pursuers of a dark legend. She focused on the others; the strange Hunters of Noelictus with crossbows, leather armor, even one who carried swords like scissors, grim-faced and intent, riding hard.

It was easier to look at than the man who rode in their center, so bright that she was dumbstruck regular people couldn’t see his aura. He recognized her, of course, but did not slow as she called out to him and begged to ride in their company back to the keep until they were certain where their quarry was.

That was how she met Ser Raim. And she understood why he had been chosen. Because he alone could burn like the sun.





Day 63 – Fierre



She didn’t hear from Ryoka. But something was happening. Of that, Fierre was certain. She’d reached out to an [Informant] in Filk, then one in the smaller town of Mafalt that had one [Mage] capable of slinging a [Message] spell. Both reported the same thing.

[Bandits]. Wagons going out, giving away free food? Flocks of crows. Not enough rainfall. Rumors of [Witches]. No—a confirmed coven. A missing [Emperor].

Rumors and gossip. Which was what Fierre was used to. But no one would confirm Belavierr’s presence. Word had spread. And yet—Fierre had that. From Ryoka of all people. It bothered the Vampire girl. She was sitting in her office, trying to figure out why Ryoka was spared.

“She didn’t really confirm it. She sent Charlay to ask for information. But in terms of intent, a curse might not hit her because she wasn’t trying to tell me or the Ratwhisperer. Does that make sense?”

She looked up at Gailt. The [Mage] was sitting in her office, hung over and annoyed. They were conducting the day’s business—that of selling the information Fierre received. He paused in sending his latest [Message] and shrugged.

“Sure. I don’t know curses well, but magic’s got limits. It’s about intent and wording—gah! Why’re you so hung up on it? Oh, right—”

He completed the sentence at the same time as Fierre.

“Because Ryoka’s there. Dead gods, it’s not like she’s the only City Runner. She must be some friend. You don’t hang out with your other clients. Or anyone else.”

“Well, Ryoka’s different.”

“Huh. I’ll say. She looks Drathian. But she said she’s fine. So?”

“So, she has a habit of putting herself into danger. Do you know she did a delivery to the High Passes?”

“What, the High Passes? She is crazy. But what can you do, Miss Fierre? Bribe the [Witches] to not turn her into stew?”

Fierre didn’t answer that. She was afraid that a Vampire wouldn’t be much use against a seriously high-level [Witch]. But she could do something, even if it was only dragging Ryoka back with her. Gailt shrugged as he scratched at his side.

“Shame you don’t have that magic door in Liscor, right? The one that got everyone all stirred up? I heard the Brotherhood and the Sisters both wanted to know how the heist failed. I pity the idiots who got on both their bad sides.”

Fierre rolled her eyes impatiently.

“There are ways of travelling a long distance besides that door, Gailt. Fissival can teleport. They do it all the time. So can Wistram. There are dozens of cities capable of it! And other ways besides.”

“So why’s the door so good?”

“It’s because the door’s cheap. And it doesn’t require a spell circle or [Mages] to operate. Any gang would love to get their hands on it because it’s cheaper than what exists. Not because it’s unique. Now, shut up. I want you to send the contents of this message to Yale in Invrisil.”

She slid a bit of parchment she’d been writing on over the desk. Gailt read the message.

“There’s going to be a raid on the [Merchant] caravan taking a bunch of clothes south past Invrisil? Ooh, I’d better go buy all the fancy silk up before the price skyrockets.”

“Gailt. I’m not in the mood.”

Fierre crossed her arms. The [Mage] sighed, but sent the [Message]. He was yawning as Fierre scribbled another [Message], and she could see him about to ask for a drinks break he wouldn’t get. Then he sat bolt upright.

“Message from Filk! It’s loud and confidential! Mage’s Guild!”

Fierre looked up in alarm. Someone was going through official channels? And paying a lot? She waited. Gailt looked around, opened his mouth, and then his lips compressed. He reached out and grabbed her quill and a bit of parchment and began to write. Fierre could see his eyes staring blankly ahead as his quill danced; even he wasn’t actively reading the message, just relaying it. He mechanically folded the parchment, then handed it to her. Only then did his eyes clear.

“Dead gods damnit, I hate doing that! That’s why I quit working at the Mage’s Guild! What does it say?”

Fierre ignored him. She was staring down at the message on the parchment. And her heart, which beat slower in her cold body, nevertheless skipped a beat.



The Stitch Witch has a daughter. Thirty gold to alert the Order of Seasons immediately.



“Another [Message].”

Fierre’s head snapped up. This time, Gailt’s eyes didn’t unfocus. He grimaced and rubbed at his head.

“It’s from Daufica. Someone just paid her to send a [Message] to you. They want to say that the [Message] you just got is verified by truth spell—Daufica’s saying she can see the confirmation. Stamped and signed and all. And he’s telling you that the Order of Seasons—”

“—is paying money to confirm the Stitch Witch is near Filk. They want her exact location. They’re offering gold too.”

Fierre completed the sentence. She’d heard the exact same thing. But like the other [Informants], she’d decided staying alive was more important than any number of gold coins. But who was sending the [Messages]?

“Gailt, who was—”

“That’s it. Sorry, fellow’s gone.”

What? Fierre snapped at Gailt as he lowered his hand.

“Who were they? Who sent that [Message]? Ask Daufica, now!”

“Fierre! I can’t do that. She’s a [Fixer]. That’s confidentiality—”

Fierre slammed one hand on the table. Gailt jumped.

“What did he look like? Tell Daufica this isn’t negotiable! Whoever it is wants me to take on the same curse that killed the Ratwhisperer! Who was it?”

The [Mage] hesitated, then put a hand to his brow. Fierre couldn’t hear the invisible argument that lasted for eight minutes, but eventually he lowered his hand, sweating. He looked up at her. Shrugged.

“Hat. Dark clothes. Big smile. That’s it. Human. Pale skin. He was also armed. But he was talking about [Witches].”

“That’s it? She didn’t get anything else?”

Fierre sagged in her chair. The Vampire girl stared at the ceiling, frustrated. Then Gailt spoke slowly.

“She thinks he was a [Witch Hunter].”

Fierre blinked. She sat up. And she looked at Gailt. He stared back at her. That changed a lot. She stared at the [Message] from the Order of Seasons asking for information. At the message from Filk.

How did you keep Ryoka safe? Make sure the [Witch] was dead. Especially one like this. Ryoka said she was fine. Was she? Fierre wanted to ask. But either way…

The Order of Seasons was a [Knight] Order. Terandria. Fierre consulted her notes on them. She had a dossier about most major organizations. They didn’t kill innocent people. And they had a reason to hate Belavierr. She could tell them and earn a very sizeable salary.

But there was a curse. Fierre didn’t want to cross that. If she asked Ryoka—or would Belavierr know? Would that trigger the curse? Because now Fierre was tempted. Gailt was watching her very nervously. The Vampire girl stared at the blank parchment she used.

Her fingers drummed restlessly on the table next to the quill and ink. Gailt nervously edged towards the door.





Day 65 – Fierre



She didn’t write a message to the Order of Seasons. Not when she was asked, and not for two days after. Fierre had a few good reasons why she should: they could chase off or defeat Belavierr; they were a decent Order who didn’t cast mass-destruction spells and they paid well. But she had a few other good reasons not to take the offer.

She didn’t trust the [Witch Hunter]. He could be aware of the curse and hoping she’d die trying or that she had the ability to survive it. Fierre could see buying some powerful magical protections—but she still didn’t trust the motive. Also, Ryoka had said Belavierr was fine. Maybe the Stitch Witch was helping Ryoka? Her daughter was in Riverfarm. She had a daughter?

But the main reason, the crucial one, was that Fierre really didn’t want to die. And she knew there was a curse. The lowliest [Informants] knew there was a curse. Twice now, the Order of Seasons had upped its bounty. They were offering four hundred gold coins for someone to verify Belavierr was there beyond reasonable doubt.

Fierre had that. Oh, yes she did. But she also knew three people had died trying to inform the Order of Seasons. One had been strangled by her collar. Another had been pulled in front of a wagon and run over despite having ample time to roll away. Their clothes had stitched themselves into the ground. The last—Fierre hadn’t even been able to get a good description.

The curse was alive and well. So Fierre refused to try even though her fingers itched to write the message. Part of her was simply vexed the Order of Seasons was hesitating. Four dead [Informants] didn’t paint you a picture? But then again—Belavierr had a reputation for doing stuff like this. Fierre had asked for more information on her, and it had been—cautiously—relayed.

Stuffed dolls that looked like her and turned violent. People with faces she’d stitched to look like hers. Blood debts and pacts signed, which made people turn on each other to protect her or let her get away. People swearing they saw her, only for it to be revealed that it was a mass-illusion. A delusion. Magic cast on a tapestry. Rumors.

That was the ability of a high-level [Witch]. Part of Fierre wanted to doubt Belavierr was even in Riverfarm. But Ryoka had asked by name and provided a brief description. Fierre shuddered. Orange ringed eyes. That was some kind of magical effect if you ever heard of one.

And she had a daughter. How much was that information worth? Fierre sat in her office near midmorning, absently playing with a quill. After a moment, she shook her head. She’d been doing this for nearly two days straight. Always coming to the same conclusion.

“No. Nope. It’s too risky. Ryoka says it’s fine. It’s too risky.”

She put down the quill. Stared at it. Pushed it to the edge of her desk. Then she flicked it off. With a sigh of relief, Fierre sat back. She put her feet up on the desk. Stared at them, sat back up and brushed the bits of dirt off. She sighed.

“I have to get back to work. Be safe, not greedy. Greedy gets you killed.”

She shook her head, sighing deeper. Fierre put her head down on her desk, then decided to do some paperwork. Absently, she began sorting her notes, adjusting them. She was creating a portfolio of the world, storing old details, information. Anything could be useful. She decided to add a note about Riverfarm to her files. She already had a substantial one on Ryoka. She also had a great filing system she’d come up with herself. It even made it easy to append notes. Absently, Fierre mumbled as she wrote.

“Riverfarm possess a force of [Riders]. Known as Darksky Riders. Cross-check with [Emperor] Skills? Current population est. 2,000+. Notable inhabitants: Lady Rie Valerund. [Steward] Prost. Former Farmer? Uh…”

She bit her lip.

“Visited—visiting Coven. Mavika, alias Mavika the Raven. Outstanding bounty. Eloise. Former [Lady] of Terandria. Wiskeria, Silver-rank Adventurer, the Celestial Trackers. Hedag the [Executioner] (also [Witch]), outstanding bounty. Alevica the Witch Runner. Outstanding bounty. Nanette, apprentice of Califor. Califor…no known alias or bounty. Uh—one, two, three…”

She paused. Yawned. Too many sleepless nights over the stupid Belavierr thing. Even a Vampire needed rest, and she was a night person. She counted. Seven? That wasn’t right. She frowned. Then slapped her forehead and rolled her eyes.

“Oh, right. Belavierr. The Stitch Witch. Mother of Wiskeria. Outstanding boun—”

The quill froze as Fierre reached for the inkpot. She stared down at the parchment where Riverfarm was listed. Her eyes fixed on Belavierr’s name.

“Oh no. No, no, nononono—that doesn’t count!”

She sat up. Looked around wildly. Every muscle in Fierre’s body tensed as her stomach lurched. Nothing in the small office moved. Fierre held still, then relaxed. She laughed shakily.

And then she heard the scream.



—–



This is the tale of a [Tailor]. He was sewing with a steel needle, carefully stitching a line in a dress he was adjusting. He lifted the needle, and it tore through his finger. The [Tailor] stared at the hole in his flesh. Blood began welling in the ragged wound.

Then he began to scream. His apprentices looked up and saw the needle flash past them. Then more needles tearing loose of the needle books and cases. They flashed out of the shop. One apprentice was too slow to jump out of the way. The needles went straight through her.



—–



Another shop was a [Shopkeeper]’s store. The needles on display shot out of the glass, flying in a swarm, tiny flashing shapes that shot down the street, curving, joining more that flew from a [Blacksmith]’s forge off the anvil, out of a home. Through a [Guardsman] and his armor. They flew towards a small back alley. An iron door.

Fierre heard the screams. She looked up and edged to the back of the room, staring at both doors leading into the small chamber.

The doors to her room were solid iron. Not enchanted, but a sturdy barrier against any usual threat or [Guardsman] if there were a raid. Fierre had a trap door that led to the basement where she could flee, or she could go through the shop entrance. She looked at the trap door, then the locked doors. She hesitated a moment too long.

The needles hit the door like sharp rain. Fierre jerked back in horror as a dozen glittering tips appeared in the door. They’d gone through the solid iron! But there they lodged. Outside, people were screaming, calling the alarm in the streets of Reizmelt. But the deadly rain had stopped.

Fierre stared at the glittering needles lodged halfway through the door vibrating. She laughed hysterically, seeing them straining. But the metal held them. Fierre edged towards the second iron door, fumbling for her key. The needles twisted to follow her. She froze. Then she heard a scream of tortured metal. The door began to bend. The needles began sliding towards her.

The Vampire girl’s breath caught. She stared at the needles. Then she screamed as the first one tore its way loose. She flung up her arms.

“No—”



—–



It took five minutes for the Watch to find the two dead bodies. [Guards] raced towards the scene, weapons raised, following the trail the needles had taken. They’d gone through everything. People followed against common instinct. They came to a spot familiar to a few in the crowd, [Guards] included. An Opener’s workspace.

The door was torn open. Everything was silent inside. The crowd halted, afraid to look closer. The [Guards] hesitated, then shouted for people to keep back. Inside, the room was silent.

Shredded. The parchment on the desk, the desk—even the magically protected drawers were destroyed. The needles had ripped everything to incomprehensible shreds. The room was still. A body was lying on the floor, the needles still.

And then the body sat up. What looked like a very young woman moved. Her clothes were tattered. Needles covered her. But the holes were already closing.

Her pupils were red, her eyes bloodshot. Her fingers clawed, teeth biting. Fierre spat a needle and yanked three out of her throat. She stared at them, then began pulling out more sewing needles. They fell to the ground.

Some were wood. Others iron. Or steel. But there was no silver. There was a very angry Fierre. She stomped out of her ruined office, through the back door, ignoring the gathering crowd, pulling her hood to cover her features. She found Gailt in his usual watering hole. He took one look at the blood and her shredded clothes and dropped his drink.

“Fierre! What—”

She thrust a bit of parchment into his face.

“Send this to the Order of Seasons. And collect the bounty.”

Fierre’s voice rasped. Gailt read the [Message] and went pale. He began shaking his head, and Fierre grabbed him.

“Send. It.”

“No! Not on your life! I’ll die!”

“I just tripped the curse. Send it now or I’ll take this needle and show you what happened to me.”

The grip that held the [Mage] was terrifyingly strong. And there was a resonance to Fierre’s voice that terrified the man. He thought of the curse. Then he realized he couldn’t breathe. He choked. Fierre held him and stared at his face. The [Mage] looked at the parchment, at her face. He tried to breathe. And then slowly jerked. Nodded.

She let go of him. Gailt collapsed onto the table. Shakily, he put his finger towards his temple, cringing, eyes darting. Fierre stood over him, swaying. Both looked around. Waiting.

Nothing happened. No needles flew. The curse was burnt. Gailt collapsed on the table, trembling, as the force of the reply from Terandria rocked him back in his seat. He began muttering.

“Yes! Confirm! Yes! We’ll do a truth—yes!”

He shuddered, and his eyes crossed. Then he blinked. He looked up and nodded.

“It’s done.”

“It is?”

The girl stared at him. Gailt nodded, trembling. Fierre blinked. Then she sighed and let go of Gailt. He stared at her. He opened his mouth to scream at her. Then he saw Fierre reach up. She pulled at a needle in the side of her head, where it had been buried up to the point. She drew it out as he turned white and passed out. Then her eyes rolled up, and she collapsed on the ground.

Across the world, Knight-Commander Calirn shouted a word like an avalanche. And a [Knight] and a group of [Hunters] looked up.





Day 65 – Laken



We’re riding together, talking. The horse is moving under me, and I’m resting my hands on the saddle horn. Trying not to look like I’m clinging to the saddle.

I hate riding. I can’t control a horse, and I’m fairly certain they know I’m blind. To be frank, a blind man leading a horse is enshrined in the hall of bad ideas. But I put up with it because the horse I’m riding is content to follow Gralton and Yitton. And they’re good riders. And because we’re chatting.

About Riverfarm, of course. But their lands as well. Since Belavierr’s incident with Rehanna, I’ve gotten daily updates and nevermind the cost.

It’s not been that…bad. Troubling, yes. But nothing worse has happened with Belavierr, so I consider that a boon. There have been more incidents, of course. But Mavika was predictable and minor given what could have happened. And Hedag?

“No. It’s not an issue, Yitton.”

I patiently turn my head. The [Lord]’s been objecting to what went down for the last thirty minutes. I shake my head as Yitton replies in a strained voice.

“I don’t deny that the outcome was beneficial, Emperor Laken. But the question is one of law.”

“I’d do the same thing in her place. In fact, I will do it. There is nothing wrong with what this [Witch] Hedag did, Yitton. Unless you disagree, Gralton?”

Yitton bites his tongue and makes a sound. No one would disagree. And Gralton’s uncharacteristically silent. Sarcastically, fed up with the debate, I go on.

“What she did was undeniably good.”

“She violated the law.”

“I would never fault her for it.”

“Yes, Your Majesty. But it is the principle of the thing. The law must apply to all, or it is not law.”

“Well then, I’ll change the law to allow it.”

“Your Majesty! The people of your empire have rights!”

“Not to that, Yitton!”

I take a deep breath. I calm down a bit, hearing silence.

“I’m sorry. I know you’re making a reasoned point. But I don’t think it’s wrong. And if Lancrel’s people object or this Councilwoman Beatica or that [Mayor] I’ve heard so much about complain, I will deal with it. But I’m not ordering her punished. When I get back, I’ll sort it out. As far as I’m concerned, that’s proof of [Witches] being a good thing.”

“I’m afraid I must disagree, Your Majesty.”

There’s a tone in Yitton’s voice that makes me grind my teeth. He can be more stubborn than Gralton and I put together! Sixty…five days is more than enough time to find out what you don’t like in someone. But he has a point. I sigh.

“I’m sure there’s time for reasoned debate. In fact, I’d love to introduce you to Ryoka. She seems to have hit the issue on the same points as you. We’ll address it when we get there. Let’s change the subject. Gralton? What news of your lands? Is it raining there? I hope Riverfarm likes all this rain we’re bringing them.”

Sourly, I glance up. It’s raining on my oiled cloak. No umbrellas while riding, thanks. Gralton pauses.

“I do have news. My people are telling me there’s a bunch of sick bastards on my land. So I told ‘em to quarantine them like you said, Laken. That will help?”

I blink.

“You actually remembered our discussion about the Black Death? Wait—sickness?”

The man grunts.

“Shouldn’t I? You don’t forget something like that. And I have lots of dogs. And people. There’s always something. Doesn’t sound too bad. I’ll hire some [Healers]. Always helps. Not as bad as [Witches]. Byres?”

“Nothing from my lands, or so my wife claims.”

The [Lord]’s voice is a bit short. I haven’t heard the last from him. I sigh and rub my head. I’m out of sorts. I haven’t been sleeping well. And the rain’s falling on my head. Despite it, my cloak feels hot. I shrug at it irritably.

Then I hear pounding hoofbeats in the mud. I turn my head and hear a voice.

“Your Majesty! A [Message]! Urgent!”

“Gamel? What is it? Riverfarm?”

I twist, suddenly worried, and Gralton halts my horse. Gamel pulls up, panting. I hear a horse, his urgent tone, something rustling.

“No, sire! It’s from Terandria! The Order of Seasons is sending you a [Message]—”

“The Order of Seasons? What does it say?”

Gralton leans over. I hear Gamel exclaim. The [Dog Lord] frowns. The rain’s falling, but I’m shrugging off my cloak. It’s hot. I hear him muttering, reading out loud.

“They’re coming—no, they’re notifying you they’re sending—what in the name of—”

Impatiently, I turn my head.

“Yitton, can you read it out loud? Gralton, hand it to—”

And then I feel it. One second it’s gone, and then it’s blazing in my head. I shout, and the horse rears. I can’t grab at the reins. I can feel myself falling, hear a bellow from Gralton. And Yitton catches me halfway down. But that’s not what makes me shout. I can’t hear Gamel shouting at me, Yitton’s voice.

It’s in my head! No! My eyes! It’s so—I push at my eyes.

“What’s—god! What’s happening—”

“Laken! What is it?”

I flail wildly. It’s right there! What is—I’ve never—

And then I realize. It’s light.

Light. In my head. A beacon. Blazing. I can feel it. Coming north. And west. From Riverfarm. I sit up, shaking. It’s burning. I twist as the others swing from the saddles.

Yitton calls out.

“Your Majesty, what’s happening?”

“Are we under attack? Is it Riverfarm?”

Gralton draws a sword. Yitton’s supporting me. I shake my head. Croak.

“Gralton, ride.”

He pauses. Then gets what I mean. I hear an intake of breath. All I can do is feel the beacon in my head. They’re there. Intruders! A fiery blaze. And she’s there too. I can feel them. Gralton whistles. I hear a horse trotting.

“It’ll take me three days to get to my estates! I can bring an army to Riverfarm in two days!”

“Do it.”

He doesn’t wait for a reply, but takes off, roaring for the caravan and his guards. I stand up, shaking. Gamel’s chasing a horse. Yitton supports me.

“What is it?”

“The Order of Seasons sent someone. Belavierr’s there too. They’re—trouble, Yitton. Something is happening in Riverfarm. And I’m not there.”

Five days. I try to shut my eyes, but the light’s still there. I should have sent Gralton the instant the coven arrived.

“I can’t leave the Goblins. If I do—”

Can I? I leave, and what does Yitton do? The [Guards]—I hesitate. Yitton makes the decision for me. He snaps as people gallop towards us, shouting urgent questions.

“We push on. Fastest speed. Tell the [Mages] to prepare [Light] spells for night riding. We’re pushing on through the night! We will be at Riverfarm in exactly five days!”

He overrides the objections, snapping orders with uncharacteristic force. The people withdraw. I’m still standing. Yitton speaks urgently to me.

“Laken. If you ride now, there is no guarantee you’ll be able to stop whatever’s there. Wait for Gralton to bring an army to bear. He can muster thousands. More if need be. This could be targeted at you. A magic-user can easily attack you with a small escort. You cannot risk your life.”

I know. I know that. But I stand there. Listening to Yitton talk about five days. Riverfarm holding out. And I think of a [Witch] that could hang a village in a night, according to Ryoka. A blazing [Knight]. Fire and conspiracy and death.

Durene’s there. Prost, Rie. Ryoka, Frostwing, Bismarck. I turn my head north and west. And I climb in the carriage as it rolls forwards as the caravan doubles its pace and Gralton and his escort race ahead.

I know in my marrow, in the burning in my eyes, that we will be too late.





6.43 E


(Volume 2 of The Wandering Inn is available on Amazon! If you can, please leave a review or tell people it’s out! Buying is not necessarily necessary. Thanks so much for the support!)



Day 60 – Ryoka



“She knows it’s not alive.”

Wiskeria spoke softly. Her eyes were shadowed by her pointed hat. Her face was pale. She stood in the light, a flickering candle’s illumination in a lantern aided by the embers in a fireplace. They cast long, dancing shadows. But no one was suggesting using the [Light] spell. The silent gathering did not want to see magic.

“She knows it’s fake? You’re sure?”

Prost leaned over the table. The former [Farmer]’s face was pale. He had fought Goblins, lived for decades in Riverfarm. But this had shaken him. Wiskeria looked up. Her yellow-green eyes reflected the lantern’s light. She nodded once.

“She has to. I know the deal she took. At least, in part. It would be hard, very hard, to make something that fooled her against her will. Too much work. Moreover, what would be the point?”

“To trick her?”

Lady Rie sat at the table, flanked by her bodyguard, Geram, and Nesor. She looked up at Nesor, but the young [Mage] was silent. This magic was beyond him. Wiskeria, the sole [Witch] in the room, shook her head.

“It didn’t feel like that. I can see her magic. My…mother’s. I can’t see all of it. But it looks fair.”

“Fair?”

The word was incredulity. It came from more than one person. Charlay. Durene. Not Ryoka. But from others. Wiskeria tugged her hat lower, hiding her eyes.

“Yes. In a sense. It was fair in that Rehanna gave something and she got something. That…doll is casting a spell on her. It looks like a baby. If you let it, it would probably seem like a baby to you.”

“Why don’t we see it that way, then?”

Wiskeria shook her head.

“Because you don’t want to, Lady Rie. You don’t want to. The magic works on you if you’re willing. Like I said, it’s an easier illusion. But Rehanna wants the doll to be her son. So it is. That’s the nature of the deal. The baby—the doll is hers. And my mother has what she wants.”

And what was that? The listeners exchanged silent looks. In truth, they didn’t need Wiskeria to say. They had seen Rehanna. The woman was aged. In a single day, she had developed grey in her hair. Her body was older. And all of the vitriol, the anger, and the hatred she had had towards Wiskeria, towards Riverfarm and Laken and the world, all of it was gone. Rie murmured.

“So. Is it a threat?”

“No. It’s just a baby. It can’t do anything other than cry.”

“Can it eat? Will it grow?”

The words made Prost’s heart jump. They came from Ryoka. And they were the first she’d uttered since the emergency meeting had been convened. Wiskeria glanced at the City Runner.

“No. It’s not alive. Not like a String-person. It’s just well-sewn.”

That statement made no one relax. The air felt unsettled. Clammy with nerves. Durene shook her head and then coughed. She was weak. Woozy, in fact. The healing burns were still fresh; her body still smelled of smoke. Come to that, Wiskeria was wearing a borrowed tunic and leggings. She’d been literally naked but for a blanket less than ten minutes ago. Ryoka shook her head wearily, feeling her sore feet and tired body from a day of exercise. She hadn’t slept since yesterday morning.

It was late. So late the sun was rising into the next day, casting long shadows out of the night. But no one was abed or even thought of it. Tired as she was, Ryoka feared sleep. She feared the sight of that infant, the piercing, familiar wail. But it was not alive. She shivered with fear. But at least she had seen things more terrible.

Most of those standing around the table had not. Ryoka looked at them and saw the horror. For Wiskeria? Disgust. Regret. Anger?

She had none of it. She had looked at that crying infant made of cloth, Rehanna’s aged features, her mother’s craft—and it moved her not at all.

She too had seen worse, and Wiskeria gave Ryoka a little nod. There was only one emotion that Ryoka could read there. Just disappointment. As if she had hoped for something else. But her mother would never change.

Mothers, in Ryoka’s experience, were like that. Now, Wiskeria was left to explain, so she did, like a girl having to tell people why her mother had stumbled downstairs, unable to even stand for the drink. It was a tired, practiced explanation of half-truths, and there was a girl there, trying to defend something she knew was wrong.

Ryoka found herself trembling as Wiskeria’s tone became more matter-of-fact, soothing. She wasn’t shaking for the reason the others were.

“It was a bargain. There was no malice in it. Not from my mother at any rate. Sometimes, she makes deals you could call unfair. She’s on her best behavior right now.”

Prost fixed Wiskeria with a searching eye, but his voice cracked.

“This is her best behavior? She didn’t seek Rehanna out because the woman destroyed your brew, Wiskeria? You’re sure?”

The [Witch] barely hesitated.

“No. My mother doesn’t mix business with vengeance. Believe me, when she goes for vengeance, it’s very clear. If she was angry at Rehanna, she would have killed her or done something far worse. I know what we saw. But it only concerns Rehanna. If…”

She hesitated.

“If there were anything to worry about, it would be if she makes a second deal. Someone should watch Rehanna. And anyone else with something to lose.”

Then the silence deepened, and a shiver ran through Riverfarm, as if the winter had never left and this summer were an illusion. Ryoka stared at Rehanna, and Rie’s voice rose shrilly.

“Someone else? Who would look at that and think they wanted—”

“Lady Rie.”

Wiskeria cut in, voice polite.

“I am not giving you the reasons. I am telling you what I know from experience. The best thing to do would be to watch Rehanna. Not to take the child from her, and to tell everyone to stay away from Belavierr. The contract cannot be undone.”

Lady Rie looked at Wiskeria, both with a strangled fury and now…her eyes darted to Ryoka and then a scroll of parchment Ryoka had received via [Message]. Nesor had just finished copying it, and Fierre had signed it herself.

“Is this what the woman did on Terandria? Belavierr. I know that name, now. Not her name, but—the Temptress of Izril. What did she do in Noelictus?”

Wiskeria’s shoulders hunched further.

“I don’t know. Ryoka?”

Bad news often came too late. Ryoka stared down at the…list of Belavierr’s crimes. Her stomach lurched. It was long. Long, disturbing, even hilarious in parts. Then just horrifying because it was probably true.

“It doesn’t even say. The bounty’s too long to—mass-murder of a city. Is that even possible? Seduction of a [Prince]?”

“Allegedly.”

Charlay unhelpfully pointed that out. The entire room glared at her, and she quailed.

“What? It says that there.”

“That’s probably a lie.”

Wiskeria looked uncomfortable. But she hadn’t been surprised by the list of crimes either. On the other side of the table, Rie and Prost were greatly disturbed. Prost muttered to himself.

“This goes beyond regular crime. If even a tenth of what’s written here is true, let alone the bounty, Belavierr is a monster on the same level as…why was she allowed in here? Wiskeria, you didn’t tell us to—”

Wiskeria’s voice rose.

“I tried to banish her. No one can just get rid of her. It would take three [Kings] to even remove her without a good cause—and she took a position in the coven. She’s here for me. This is, again, her best behavior. You don’t want to make her mad. Believe me. Please.”

That drew the man up short. Prost looked at Rie. She paused, her face pale, and nodded.

“Another question then: why is her name not known the world over?”

Wiskeria gave Rie a sardonic look.

“Isn’t it? You know her. The [Ladies] and [Lords] of Izril do. She’s not as well-known as Az’kerash. Perhaps because she doesn’t kill armies…often. She comes and goes. She’s most dangerous when people try to attack her or stop her. I know what my mother is capable of. But believe me, she didn’t come to harm Riverfarm. I know how she thinks. For her, this is business. And her coming with the coven is because they need to deal with Laken. Because of me.”

Wiskeria looked around the table. No one could immediately respond. They had known she was unsettling from the start, but not what they had welcomed into their village, however reluctantly. Now? Ryoka did understand. If a tornado touched down in Riverfarm, she would be astonished if it left no casualties. Belavierr was that, unto [Witches]. This? This was the first sign of who Belavierr was.

Ryoka recalled the thing in Rehanna’s arms. It had been skillfully done. Everything was right. In fact, it was far, far more realistic than any mannequin baby from her world. Plastic could not take the shape cloth had.

It was not alive. But it moved and cried. Ryoka’s skin crawled, and she felt her stomach heave, trying to eject reality.

However, she had seen worse. Worse, and better. More glorious magic, more tragedy. She had seen a Dragon. Things sitting around a fire, reaching for the light. So it was Ryoka who stirred as the first rays of dawn crept into Rie’s home. She raised her hand as the light struck her face. Her two missing fingers made the beams blind Ryoka anyways. The young Asian woman sighed, then stood.

“Well, we’ve sent a message to Laken. And everyone’s inside, if not asleep. Rehanna’s being watched. So I think I’ll talk with the coven tomorrow. I mean, later today. Maybe I’ll take a nap before that. Unless anyone has anything else to say?”

She squinted at the brightening window. Ryoka stared at the rising sun and wondered if four hours would allow her to function. Maybe with a stamina potion. She’d trade someone else’s left leg for coffee. Then she realized everyone was looking at her.

“What?”

“We can’t just go back to work. We haven’t resolved this issue, Miss Griffin!”

Lady Rie was quietly horrified. She rose, smoothing her dress.

“Emperor Laken is sure to respond, but we must make some announcement or preparations—”

“About what? Belavierr? Wiskeria said she made an honest deal. We can watch Rehanna, and I’ll ask the [Witches] like I said, but what else can we do? Make plans against Belavierr? I tell you what, you can muster an army of a thousand. Ten thousand and ambush her as she sleeps. I’ll watch. Would that even work, Wiskeria?”

The Wind Runner turned to Wiskeria, and the [Witch] bit her lip to stop from laughing. Ryoka raised her hands, looking around.

“If you want to do that, feel free, Lady Rie. But I’m not going to. Belavierr’s not a threat right now. And I’d like to keep her that way.”

Lady Rie pursed her lips, gazing out the window.

“But if she were to endanger us—”

“We’ll do what? What plans could we make? If she attacks us, how many of us even get away? Will Riverfarm still stand?”

The City Runner stared around the room. Lady Rie went pale, and Geram, the [Fistfighter], shifted. He looked uneasily at one arm, as if trying to imagine stopping Belavierr with that.

There it was. A terror of the unknown. Fear of dangerous women. Or just women. From these things, Ryoka knew how witch hunts arose. It might have spread like a contagion out of this room, but Ryoka clung to something else.

“There’s one thing we can count on, though. And I think Prost will back me on this.”

The [Steward] had been grasping the edges of the table so hard his knuckles were white. He stared up at her, and Ryoka thought of the other [Witch].

“Califor. The rest of the coven. If we’ve got one…bad witch. Don’t you think we should rely on the others to reign her in? Or is Califor not someone famous, Prost? Trust in her.”

Califor had not yet returned from her own mission, but her name broke the tension in the air. Not completely, but Prost inhaled as if he’d forgotten she existed and turned to Wiskeria.

“That’s right. I knew I’d heard of her. There’s a—a good witch to balance an ill.”

“I don’t see much balancing going on.”

Geram muttered, but the tension eased. Rie looked exasperated.

“Witch Califor I don’t know, Mister Prost.”

“I heard of her, but never by name. Maybe you don’t know her by Witch Califor, Lady Rie. Would the woman who broke the Wellfar’s dam at Lake Roisemead ring a bell? The one that was set to flood out a dozen villages and dry out dozens more so they’d have an inland port?”

Ryoka’s ears perked up, and she made a note to ask Fierre about Califor. Rie’s eyes flickered.

“—That’s an older story. I, of course, remember the incident. It almost looked like it would be a battle. That was…eighteen years ago when my family—”

She broke off. Swallowed hard as Geram looked at her.

“Of course I know…Califor was the woman who did that? Wellfar is still hunting for the perpetrator!”

“Which is why she travels. She’s been to Baleros, Chandrar, Terandria—maybe even further. I know of her. I thought she’d hunt me down after I ran away from my mother. In the end, Mavika just found me. I thought, at the time, it was the better of the two.”

Wiskeria muttered. Califor sounded like some kind of wandering detective or problem-solver to Ryoka. Whatever the case was, her name was like a balm against Belavierr’s ominous presence. Ryoka nodded.

“Don’t forget Eloise, or even Hedag or Mavika. They might be dangerous in their own ways, those two, but Hedag would protect a child to the death, I’ll bet.”

She glanced at Wiskeria for another nod, then pushed herself away from the table.

“I don’t feel like making useless plans. Especially when we’re all tired. We have a lot of new arrivals in Riverfarm thanks to the aid mission. Mister Prost, they all have homes, but I’ll bet they’re reconsidering their choices. We should put them to work, even if everyone’s tired.”

The [Steward] started. He looked up and nodded.

“I can do that. We’ll all be sleeping in late, but—yes. We should get some sleep. All of us.”

He stood up. Lady Rie looked at him.

“Prost—!”

“Miss Griffin’s right, Lady Rie. There’s no sense in letting the fields go to waste or standing about. Work will keep folk’s mind off it. But I will tell Beniar to keep his [Riders] close to the village. The [Bandits] aside—”

He glanced at Wiskeria. Her walking out of a [Fireball] unscathed was small potatoes compared to the rest of tonight’s events, but it did merit some attention.

“—we’ll get back to work. Miss Griffin, talk to the [Witches] by all means. I’ll deal with what I can and wait for His Majesty’s orders.”

He nodded to the others. Lady Rie protested, but that was that. In truth, everyone was too tired to think. They just left the house. But sleep was hard to find, even exhausted. No one could forget the baby.



—–



The baby. Ryoka woke up in Durene’s cottage seven hours later. It was already late morning, so she got up cautiously, only to find Charlay staring right at her. The Centauress’ eyes were sunken.

“I dreamt about screaming babies.”

“You did?”

“Mhm.”

Charlay knelt on her horse legs as Ryoka got up. The City Runner stared at Durene’s kitchen and decided she didn’t have the strength to make a hot meal. It wasn’t that kind of day. Some days you didn’t want food to make you feel good because it couldn’t. She dug in her pack and pulled out some nuts and a couple dried fruits. Charlay copied her and came up with some dried oats and nuts.

They ate quietly. It felt like a wake to Ryoka. It was almost a relief when Frostwing dove from her perch and tried to steal all of Ryoka’s nuts. That woke Durene up. She joined them, and after tossing potatoes out at the Mossbear lying in the remains of Durene’s garden, they found Wiskeria.

She was lying in her tent. Awake. She crawled out and stared at them. Like Charlay, her eyes were worn by exhaustion. Perhaps not from nightmares; she looked worn by memory. Another familiar thing. Ryoka offered her a hand, and Wiskeria stared at her. At Durene. Charlay.

Ryoka could see the looks on her companions’ faces. They were remembering the baby. But that wasn’t Wiskeria’s fault. In no way had she condoned or helped that occur. It was only that Belavierr was her mother. And that she was a [Witch]. Ryoka looked down at Wiskeria’s face. To Wiskeria, it seemed, both meant she was partly guilty.

“Uh. Morning. Want some nuts? Charlay’s got oats if you’re interested.”

Wiskeria blinked as Ryoka offered her the travel rations. The comment Ryoka made was incredibly stupid, but it helped break the gravitas of the day. Durene snorted a bit, and Charlay eyed Ryoka.

“I thought you hated my oats.”

“I do. Maybe Wiskeria’s allergic to nuts, though.”

“Um. Thanks.”

The [Witch] slowly got up. She faced Ryoka. The City Runner gave her a half-smile.

“Shall we?”



—–



The strange mood filled the village. Not exactly horror, not in the light of the day. And not grieving; no one had died. But a strange, quiet mood. Like that after some huge tragedy too large to encompass. Unease, that was it. Ryoka looked at the quiet faces, the way no one, not even children, made loud sounds.

As if it were against the rules. As if they were all dreaming. But in time, people began waking up. Someone made a loud sound as she slapped two pots together, and everyone jumped. Someone else made an inane joke about oats and Humans, and no one laughed, but the world became normal. Ryoka and Charlay gave each other high-fives, and Chimmy was able to run up. Like that, Riverfarm became normal.

Ryoka realized she was actually hungry for food instead of a handful of nuts and fruit. She joined the queue in front of one of the cooking halls where food was being passed out. Today’s was, almost predictably, a stew. They were easy to make, but someone—Prost—had decided to let the [Cooks] add a generous helping of lard and some of the meat, and there was some really nice bread.

It wasn’t quite as well-risen as something from Ryoka’s world—she blamed a lack of baking powder—but it was just as tasty. And hot! She ate greedily and found Charlay stuffing her face as well.

“Charlay, can you eat all kinds of meat?”

“Don’t be racist, Ryoka. Of course I can. But I don’t eat too much; it goes straight to my lower belly.”

Ryoka eyed the Centauress’ lower half. She couldn’t argue with that. She saw people standing around, talking, until men and women began walking through the crowd with authority, shouting.

“Alright! Enough time stuffing faces! We need to get those fields tilled, or do you think our seeds will sprout in fresh air? [Farmers], with me! You new folk, anyone who’s got a farming class, come with me until Prost sorts you out!”

“Building team! Muster up!”

“Ladies and children, we’ll be setting up those drying racks. And washing clothes and seeing to the rest of our tasks! It’s a fine day to dry what needs drying, so we will be cleaning and letting the air do our work—”

Ryoka had another reason to admire Prost, then. The unsure crowd began to move with a purpose. From her seat, she watched a group of [Farmers] get up. Her hermit-friend, the spear fisher, was good-naturedly hefting his spear and arguing with Beycalt, who was clearly not about to let him wander off and pursue his passion and calling. A group of farmers, including Mister Ram, trooped past Ryoka, groaning.

“We’re going to have to water the fields, aren’t we? It’s too damn bright, and we need rain! At least the river’s nearby.”

“Stop complaining. We’ve any number of hands. And some of us have [Water-Retaining Soil]. But would you rather wait for rain with nary a cloud in sight?”

“It’ll be half a day of watering! We’ll have to do it all by hand!”

One of the female [Farmers] slapped a man on the back.

“Well, you were complaining about the rain right before this. Make up your mind, man!”

He groaned.

“Can’t [Witches] conjure rain?”

Everyone in earshot paused at that. The other [Farmers] scowled at the loudmouth, and half of them smacked or elbowed him. The woman [Farmer] glowered.

“Yeah. How much of your soul do you think they want for a shower? Forget it. Let’s get some buckets. We do need a canal or two, though…”

They moved out of the mess hall. Ryoka sighed. The village was still mostly in shock. She was certain that would change. She got up and bussed her and Charlay’s dishes.

Yes, shock. You could see that on most faces. With the daylight hitting them and the dark night behind, it was easy for people to laugh off what they’d seen. Or pretend it wasn’t as real. Just a doll, perhaps. Some trickery of magic. Not…

It was a bad memory. Until you heard a baby’s wail and looked about wildly for it. Twice, it happened, and both times everyone in earshot froze, then laughed. But no one laughed when they went past the house where Rehanna lived.

Rehanna had her own home. Of course she did; she had once had a family.

A family.

You would think, on this day, she would be cloistered away in her home with no one to see. Like, Ryoka had imagined, someone in a care facility in a padded room to protect herself. But when Ryoka saw the woman—she understood why the village was so unsettled.

“Time to work. Someone give me a hand with these linens? They need darning, all of them.”

A woman was trying to lift a basket of damaged clothing up onto a table as she sat outside her home. There was a crowd of people watching that Prost was trying to chivvy to work. But they could not help it. People passing in the streets slowed.

They stared at a woman, hair white, hands covered with liver spots and older—far older than she had been a day ago—trying to lift a basket. After a second, another woman hurried over and helped Rehanna put it on the table.

“Take care of your strength, Rehanna.”

“I…I used to be able to do that. My. How will I pull my weight? Thank you…Miss Eloise? Witch Eloise?”

Rehanna turned, and she seemed older, now, than the [Witch] with the flowery hat. Rehanna was still taller, but Eloise was the more—lively of the two. The woman rested on the table, clearly fatigued from that one exertion, then felt around for a needle. Thread.

A wail rose, then, and Ryoka felt her blood chill, and the crowd shivered. It was a baby’s wail. Nothing more. Nothing less.

“Oh, there he goes again. One moment. Mihka. Mihka, hush—”

And Rehanna hurried over to a basket and hamper. She bent over, looking, of all things, slightly harried, annoyed, like a mother at work would be to have to constantly attend to—

She lifted something up, and tiny fingers grasped for her as she adjusted her blouse, offering the wailing infant made of cloth a breast. Then the crying stopped, and someone retched quietly. But Rehanna just hummed and stood there until she placed the—her child down.

“I hope I’ll survive teething. I…I never thought I’d be so happy. Now, where’s the linens? Miss Yesel said I needn’t worry, but someone has to darn them. And I am a [Mother]. I levelled up last night, you know, Miss Eloise.”

Eloise. The Tea Witch slowly sat there as Rehanna sat back in a rocking chair and pulled the first piece of cloth over to her. She began to sew in a practiced manner, and Eloise watched.

The [Witch]’s face was very…very kind. And very old, Ryoka saw. Eloise patted Rehanna on the knee.

“That’s quite wonderful, Rehanna. I hope you don’t mind the staring. I will have something to restore your strength. You must take care of your body now, you understand?”

Rehanna’s head lifted, and her aged features swept the crowd. It was not, Ryoka realized, as if she hadn’t seen them. She gave her audience a tremulous smile and lifted a hand. When they flinched—she lowered it.

“I quite understand, Witch Eloise. I should just like everyone to know that I’m happy. I apologize for all the trouble I’ve been. I’m happy. So—”

Her eyes flickered.

“So please. Let me be happy?”

Her eyes stole to the basket, and Ryoka heard a slight gurgle from it in the silence. When Rehanna looked up, no one could meet her eyes. But it seemed as if Eloise, for all her own quiet grief, sat like a sentinel.

Only then did Prost raise his voice and order everyone to work. He shouted everyone along, then stood there in the street. Ryoka saw him take several huge breaths, square his shoulders—then march over to smile and take Rehanna’s hand and ask her how she was this morning.

That took a bravery Ryoka didn’t have this morning. She herself hurried away. Away from the smiling woman. Away from the infant made of cloth.

The mood was quiet in Riverfarm due to that, for all Rehanna tried to call greetings. But Ryoka was certain it wouldn’t last.

Shock would be replaced by other emotions, soon. People might avoid Rehanna’s house and the woman, but for how long? They could try to ignore her or pretend this was all a trick, but the thing about magic, real magic, was that it didn’t tarnish in daylight.

They would see and have to deal with it again, and then all the chickens would come home to roost.

Or crows. The streets were absolutely deserted around the houses as Ryoka and Wiskeria approached. And even the [Witches] looked—

Hesitant. Mavika, Hedag, and Alevica sat together, speaking quietly. They too looked uneasy. This magic was clearly not something they were used to, either.

The most…normal was Mavika. She was snapping at Alevica. She just looked unhappy, and when Ryoka trotted over, Mavika’s expression only grew more annoyed. Ryoka lifted a hand.

“Uh…”

“Go away, wind’s child. We aren’t in the mood to speak of what your eyes and ears can see. No more are we here to comfort thee.”

Mavika was feeding half her breakfast to the raven perched on her shoulder. She cast Ryoka a black-eyed glance, and Ryoka hesitated. But then she sat down at the table. Affronted, Mavika’s eyes narrowed, and Wiskeria hastily came up behind Ryoka.

“Ryoka has a few questions, Witch Mavika. On behalf of Riverfarm. They need some assurance.”

“Of what? The doll? It was—”

“—a deal fairly struck. So Wiskeria’s said, Witch Mavika. A good morning to you, by the way.”

Ryoka spoke tactfully. Mavika eyed her and clicked her tongue.

“Then why do you ask?”

Alevica grinned, or tried to, as Hedag grabbed the last heel of bread. They listened as Ryoka responded.

“To be sure it was fair. No offense to Witch Wiskeria, but Belavierr is a powerful magic-user. And I know some stories about [Witches]. Very few of them have fair endings.”

The trio of [Witches] fell silent. Mavika broke off some bread and ate it. She replied, chewing, as her raven snatched the last of the bread.

“And do you hold these tales to be true of all [Witches], wind’s child?”

“No. But I haven’t met any [Witches] before all of you. And Belavierr is unique.”

Not even Mavika could contest that. She sat back, annoyed, and Ryoka took that as acceptance. She looked around.

“The baby. I get that Belavierr traded it to Rehanna. Can you all tell me why? And how she struck the deal?”

The [Witches] looked at Ryoka. Then Alevica leaned over to Hedag.

“And here I thought she was halfway smart.”

Hedag boomed with laughter. She slapped the table, making all the cups jump, and leaned forwards.

“Don’t insult the girl, Alevica! Miss Runner! You want to know what bargain was struck? Can’t you see what it was? Or do you ask if there’s some other trick to it? If so, I’ll tell you what any [Witch] would: there’s not, and it was honestly done!”

She eyed Ryoka, her huge face smiling beneath her brown hat. Of all the [Witches], Ryoka had spoken to Hedag the least. Not at all, in fact; she’d been playing with the children all of yesterday. She looked at Ryoka, eyes bright beneath the huge grin.

“Califor said you understood our craft. So you tell me, Miss Runner Ryoka, what was the nature of the bargain? It should be plain to see.”

Ryoka thought for a moment.

“It looks like Belavierr made the doll for Rehanna because the woman missed her child. In exchange for part of Rehanna’s life. Or her lifespan. But—it’s not that simple, is it?”

“Why not?”

Hedag’s smile was challenging. Ryoka turned to look at Wiskeria and got a nod. That was what Wiskeria had said, but…Ryoka frowned.

“But it’s just a doll. What makes it worth…forty years of her life?”

“It looks like her child. Sounds like it too.”

The Wind Runner blinked. That made sense. But…it did feel too simple. She raised her eyebrows, meeting Hedag’s gaze.

“So it’s not going to disappear or fall apart or…suck the life out of her?”

“Do you believe the Stitch Witch is of so little skill? Did you not see her daughter’s clothing? Nothing Belavierr makes will come undone with age, for better or ill.”

That retort came from Mavika. The [Witch] looked peeved at Ryoka’s questions. The City Runner shook her head.

“But it’s just a doll. It’s not worth…does it eat? Will it grow up?”

The [Witches] shrugged, but they turned as a fourth figure joined their number. Eloise had returned from Rehanna’s side. She looked tired, and she did not greet Ryoka as she spoke.

“It will be a baby forever. It may even eat. I don’t care to know. I have studied the doll as much as I could. Rehanna did let me touch it. I had Prost set two of her friends to watch her.”

“Sensible. A fool might take that doll from her. What did you see, Eloise?”

Hedag leaned over. Eloise cast a glance at Ryoka, but was too distraught to obfuscate.

“I’m not a tenth of Belavierr’s skill, and needlework is not my exact specialty—but it is simple. Simple and damned elegant! It is a pure vessel, and it will take Rehanna’s grief. For her, it is her baby, and perhaps she might even dream her husband is just around the corner, laughing, as she holds it. It is…just that. Just that, but too much nevertheless. Just a spell. A Cloth Golem that eats grief. And provides a dream of happiness.”

She breathed, in and out, and it was Mavika who glanced around.

“Perhaps we should have…tea? I offer you my hospitality, Witch Eloise.”

Awkwardly, she produced a handful of what turned out to be broken acorns and what might have passed for the world’s first tea bag ever made. Eloise looked at Mavika, and Ryoka realized the Crow Witch was trying to be…nice?

Mavika’s glare said Ryoka wasn’t invited, but Eloise made a pot with Mavika’s dubious tea bag. It seemed to calm Eloise, or the ritual did. But her words were blunt.

“Sisters. I have failed. Let it be a lesson to you as well, Miss Ryoka. I strove against Belavierr, set myself against her, and I don’t believe I even had a chance.”

Set herself against…Ryoka remembered Eloise trying to talk to Rehanna, offering her tea and sympathy. Oh.

“You were trying to stop her from taking Belavierr’s offer.”

“Yes. Subtly. With small things to let her process her grief. A kind ear, a warm cup of tea, a snack—it feels like tossing crumbs into a storm. I have failed. Now, a woman has lost twenty—no, forty years of her life.”

Eloise’s lips were pressed tightly. Hedag slurped noisily and grunted.

“You hadn’t a chance, Eloise. That’s the honest truth. Perhaps if Califor hadn’t gone off to that village—”

“It is my domain, Hedag. My responsibility. Belavierr is practicing her craft; she is clearly wounded and has lost her magic, but she’s taken some of it back. How much forty years is, to her, is anyone’s guess.”

Forty years. Rehanna had obviously aged overnight, and Ryoka made an educated guess.

“So she’s using Rehanna’s age to fuel her…craft? I have that right? That’s what Belavierr gets out of this?”

The [Witches] nodded as one. Alevica joked, grinning, or trying to.

“Forty years sounds like a hell of a thing to me. I’d take it and be young for that long.”

Mavika stared at Alevica, and the Witch Runner glared at her.

“You could not use forty years if you had it, Witch Alevica. It is not something you can merely take and eat or wear like a pretty thing. Only the Witch of Webs can use what she harvests. Nor will she stop at one.”

That was…not good. Ryoka licked her lips as Alevica opened her mouth to argue—then sat back. For all her bravado, Alevica was clearly shaken. She muttered, directing her words at Ryoka.

“—Just so you know, the doll isn’t that amazing. I could probably do it in a few months. My master could probably make one that good. It’s just—doing it that fast. And taking age. I’ve never seen anyone take time like that. And it’s generating happiness, Eloise?”

The older [Witch] nodded grudgingly.

“Rehanna is happy. And, I hope, she will continue to be. The doll will help with that, I think. It will make tragic days hurt less. It is not all-powerful. But she will give it strength. Until she decides she has no need of it.”

“What if she doesn’t?”

“Then it will be her child, sweet and there for her to love, until the day she dies. Or it is taken from her.”

Eloise sat her cup down. She looked at Ryoka, her face tired. Her eyes direct.

“There is no trickery in the doll. No function in it to steal Rehanna’s life or emotions. She already gave Belavierr her price. Belavierr has no need to siphon her life away. Again—it was a bargain struck between the two. And things given willingly are worth far more than what can be stolen.”

“But—”

Ryoka struggled for words. She had seen worse, but this bothered her. Because this was no majestic Dragon and his hoard that could be bargained for, where even his smallest trinkets were things of incredible worth. And it was no Necromancer, who committed terrible evils because he could.

It was so…small. A petty magic in one sense. The doll wasn’t real. But it would make Rehanna happy forever. In that sense, it was grand. Petty and grand and—a [Witch]’s magic. Ryoka sat back, conflicted. She sipped the tea automatically, then looked up.

“Okay. Thank you for explaining it to me. I have only one last question. Was it a good deal for Rehanna? It seemed like Belavierr made the doll quickly. So did she pay too much? Was it fair? Was there a better deal she could have struck?”

The coven looked at her. Old and young. Even Wiskeria. For one moment, they were united. All seven smiled or laughed or shrugged. And they replied in different words, but with the same message.

“It depends on her.”



—–



[Witches]. They were about bargains and emotion. No—give and take. As Ryoka went for a run on the dry, warm day, she thought about Rehanna. It was too bright outside. The skies were too blue. It felt like summer had come, even though according to Prost’s internal calendar they still had time yet.

Either way, it was all too easy to run and forget about yesterday. At least for a moment. But the baby—Ryoka didn’t want to avoid it. After her meeting with Eloise, she had decided there was only one logical step. To psyche herself up for it, Ryoka went on a brisk run.

There was nothing eventful about the run itself. Just a big lap around Riverfarm, avoiding rocks or patches of nettle-like plants. What was interesting was the man she met who stepped out from behind a tree about two miles south of Riverfarm. Ryoka saw him, jerked in surprise, and doubled left as she reached for a potion at her belt.

The wind blew fiercely and then died. It was acting up here. At the worst moment. Ryoka was tensed—but the man held up two hands.

“Peace, Miss Runner! I come in peace, on my honor! Might I have a word?”

He smiled with all his teeth, and Ryoka instantly recognized him. The strange man that Charlay had met three days ago. The same one Rie had said was lurking around Riverfarm. She grabbed a Tripvine bag and held it, but didn’t yank it loose and throw it. She halted, panting.

“Can I help you, sir? I’m a City Runner, but I’m not looking for any deliveries—”

“Nothing of the sort, Miss! I’m just a wanderer, looking to speak to someone. Might I have a word?”

He stepped forwards, and Ryoka took his full measure now. Including his clothes. Instantly, Ryoka’s eyes widened. Because she recognized the style of the garb he wore. It was so easy for Charlay or anyone else to mistake. And their descriptions were all generic because describing clothing was hard unless you had the background and terminology.

The man had a hat, yes. Dark clothes. But the style was…Ryoka fixed on the long-sleeved, trench coat-like design. The gloved hands and what might have been armor concealed underneath the cloth. But light armor, nothing heavy. And the hat! That gave him away too.

It was a capotain, cylindrical and tall, complete with a buckle. It didn’t need to be a buckle. It could have been an insignia. Or left blank. But the hat, the style of it, was as iconic as if the man had owned two swords and possessed cat-eyes.

The dress was a costume. A symbol. The hat alone—it probably wasn’t totally real to what pilgrims might have looked like in the 1600s. And it wasn’t a style that existed in Ryoka’s world except as an icon, a particular style as old as…[Witches]. But it told her something in silent words.

To her it said [Witch Hunter]. The man stepped forwards, smiling that strange smile. And Ryoka hesitated. Because his presence put pieces together in her head.

Bounty on Belavierr. The [Bandits] targeting Wiskeria, a [Witch]. The stranger asking questions about Riverfarm. The Circle of Thorns?

Pieces. But she wasn’t sure. So Ryoka warily rested on the balls of her feet, ready to move. She couldn’t see if the man was armed. His hands were spread away from his body. He was trying to be…friendly. He nodded to her, his eyes flicking to her belt.

“Good day to you, Miss Runner. I hear you’re having a bit of trouble with [Witches]. May I ask what they’re up to in Riverfarm? I’ve got my head against the ground so to speak, but rumor is hard to sort from fact sometimes.”

“Who are you?”

“Just a traveller—”

“Really? Because you look like a [Witch Hunter].”

Ryoka circled the man. He turned with her, raising his brows. And she detected a hint of wariness. The wind blew cautiously around Ryoka’s shoulders.

“That’s a bold assumption and claim to make upon seeing someone, Miss City Runner.”

“What about a man who’s been spotted around Riverfarm asking questions about [Witches]? Agitating people? And who dresses like half the [Witch Hunters] I’ve ever seen?”

Only if you counted movies and other media from her world. But it was a gamble Ryoka was willing to take. The way the man’s eyes flickered was a dead giveaway. He lowered his hands, sighing.

“Ah. You’ve caught me out, Miss. Are you from the north? Terandria, perhaps? Izril has few of my kind, I’m sorry to say, although we’ve been present in greater numbers in times past.”

Ryoka refused to nod or shake her head.

“Let’s just say I’m familiar with your look. Mind walking back with me to Riverfarm? The [Lady] in charge of this region would like to meet you. And have a chat with a real [Witch Hunter].”

The man glanced over Ryoka’s shoulder back towards Riverfarm. He shook his head, still slightly smiling.

“I’d prefer not to get closer. [Witches] tend to see right through me, and I think I’d be at odds with them. Which I’d rather not be, given which ones are about. I’m just concerned for the wellbeing of folks here.”

“So you’re after them? On the hunt?”

A slight pause, then that smile again.

“I prefer not to say, Miss. I’m just a traveller asking questions. If you take umbrage with me, I’ll gladly depart. But for your safety, it might be better to avoid that lot. I can’t say what I’m about yet, but I swear by my own hat.”

He tapped it, and Ryoka realized the buckle she’d seen on the hat was actually a badge. It looked like…three arrows? That was the symbol of some kind of guild. She just bet it was the Hunter’s Guild. For a [Witch Hunter].

Ryoka folded her arms, suspicious.

“So you’re a [Hunter]?”

“Again, Miss—”

“Is Noelictus or whatever kingdom hired you doing this? This isn’t their land!”

There was only one Hunter’s Guild in the world—at least, these days—and Ryoka didn’t know if they actually had the same system as an Adventurer’s Guild. But she bet they did!

The man paused a second.

“I cannot confirm who I am or my purpose, Miss Runner.”

“Oh? Then you’re unlawfully hanging about asking questions and stirring up trouble with the [Witches]. Would you start telling me what Belavierr’s done or the crimes of the other [Witches]?”

“Do you know what they are? It’s ghastly stuff, Miss Griffin. Heard of…Helpful Servants? Another thing Belavierr has done. Far less pleasant than even the baby.”

The way he said it made Ryoka pause a second—but she shook off her shiver.

“Well, you know about the baby. Sounds like you’ve been talking to a lot of people. Who are you? Also, you just said my name.”

The smiling man had been gesturing expressively, speaking quickly and fluently. But he had the slightest pause—and at this, his eyes flickered, and Ryoka saw him grimace.

“Ah. Well, everyone knows the Wind Runner of Reizmelt. I’ve done my research.”

“Bullshit. You’ve got two seconds to tell me what you’re actually doing, or I’m calling Laken to—”

The man sighed as Ryoka raised her voice. Ryoka was ready to dash back to Riverfarm; it wasn’t far at all. What she wasn’t expecting was to see a flicker from the tree—and for a woman wearing [Hunter]’s clothing to step out from behind a tree and shoot Ryoka through the chest.

The second [Hunter] lowered a wand as the first lowered his hands, cursed, and sighed. Ryoka landed on her back, a scream caught in her mouth—

Not bleeding. Not dead. A wand had struck her. Hit her and…paralyzed her?

Not killed her? The first was speaking to the second.

“That’s torn it. She’s an associate of the local [Emperor].”

“Yes, well, we couldn’t have her warn the [Witches], could we? What’s the call? Interrogation or disposal?”

Help! Help! Ryoka was trying to move, but her entire body was locked up; she could only breathe and roll her eyes around. Then she saw a third figure riding their way with two more horses.

“Orders, sir?”

There were more of them! The first [Hunter] looked annoyed. He glanced at Ryoka.

“[Witches] have tracking Skills, and I don’t like the rumors about the [Emperor]. Disposal. Make it look like birds pecked her to death. No, wait. Hang her by string as well.”

They were going to frame the [Witches]? Wind began to blow around Ryoka, but she couldn’t see the [Hunters] fully, and one of them sounded amused.

“I think she’s using her wind powers on us.”

“Be more professional. Get it done.”

“Sorry, sir.”

The third one aimed a crossbow at her without a word and fired.

Thunk.

The pull of the crossbow was loud. The [Hunter] with the strange smile glanced over and frowned. The crossbow bolt had landed wide of Ryoka’s head by an inch. He addressed the third member of his group.

“Skill?”

“No. The wind yanked my crossbow left.”

“Interesting.”

The second [Hunter] casually lifted her crossbow. The wind yanked her hand as her finger tightened on the trigger, and she steadied it. Ryoka stared at the woman. Something was off with all three of them. Her smile? Why her sm—

The woman pulled the trigger, and her crossbow exploded. The string holding the bolt snapped across her arm, so hard it tore at the leather, and she recoiled with an oath. There was a loud pinging sound, and the woman cursed.

“Another Skill? Her dossier says she doesn’t have any—”

“No. That was a curse. Finish the Runner and take evasive action! Regroup at rally point!”

Their leader shouted. He was staring at something hanging from his wrist; a glowing oval of stone. He whirled, lifting a crossbow.

This one exploded as well. And with it, something wet splashed over Ryoka.

Suddenly, Ryoka realized she could move. She tried to get up and saw one of the fake [Hunters] charging at her with a sword.

“Ryoka!”

A high-pitched, young voice screamed. Ryoka recognized it. Was that—Nanette? She saw the [Hunter] open his mouth, glance sideways—and a quarterstaff clipped him so hard he went sprawling.

Witch Califor rode past the man, staff in one hand, and a handful of leaves of all things in the other. She tossed the leaves into the air as she snapped at Ryoka.

“Run to Nanette!”

Ryoka scrambled to her feet as the trio of fake [Hunters] dove out of the way of Califor. She rode in a tight circle, striking left and right with the staff.

“Witch! Kill the Runner and—”

Their crossbows had all snapped to pieces, but the three were armed with swords, and they had another trick up their sleeves. One charged at Ryoka, slashing, as Ryoka saw Nanette waving her arms frantically. Ryoka ran backwards, and the cursing [Hunter] was slower than her. But the woman raised her wand instead of the crossbow and—

Shot fire?

A scorching jet of flames escaped the wand and nearly cooked Ryoka. The Wind Runner threw herself sideways, screaming as flames burnt her back, grabbing for a healing potion. Another [Hunter] shot fumes of green-black gas at Califor, who rode away from it instantly.

Poison? What the hell! They were using wands! Was that standard equipment? The female [Hunter] went to track Ryoka—then she coughed and gagged. The flames went out.

As she the [Hunter] had gone to inhale…a leaf had flown into her mouth and gone straight down her windpipe.

That wasn’t an accident. The air was suddenly full of leaves. They were blowing from the dry trees, a storm of thousands, obscuring vision and giving Ryoka a chance to run for it.

“Miss Ryoka! Miss Ryoka! Are you alright?”

Nanette rode towards her as Ryoka got out of the leaf-storm Califor had conjured. Ryoka turned back. Nanette had returned! She was on her pony, travel-worn and terrified. Ryoka spun.

“Califor! Get out of there! Nanette! We have to get Beniar!”

It was three against one, and they were three dangerous fake [Hunters] too. Califor’s leafstorm and charge had startled them, but they had too many strange abilities.

The flailing figures avoiding the [Witch] jumped onto horseback and scattered.

Two shot flames from their wands at Califor riding at them, and the last shot another cloud of gas—then pulled out an object and chucked it down.

Ryoka had seen flasks made by [Alchemists] that exploded—but the detonation of whatever this fake [Hunter] had thrown created a fiery orb of destruction fifteen feet wide.

“Califor!”

Ryoka shouted in horror. Nanette screamed—and the [Witch] emerged from the explosion mid-detonation. Her horse was screaming and trailing smoke, but Califor was just grim-faced. She had a knife in her hand, and as Ryoka watched, she cut the flames in half.

“Holy fuck!”

Ryoka scrambled for a weapon as the three [Hunters] recoiled. They were clearly wavering between retreat or attack; it was Ryoka they wanted. One tossed something at Ryoka, and a glint became a glass orb filled with a very bright, yellow liquid—

Ryoka grabbed Nanette and tried to drag her behind the girl’s pony. Califor shouted.

“Nanette, Ryoka—stay there!”

The [Witch] came to a halt as Ryoka slammed into the ground and covered Nanette’s head. The girl was shielding her own face, but the explosion or whatever that orb did never came. When they peeked up—Califor was holding the glass orb, inspecting the contents. At this, the fake [Hunters] clearly decided they were outmatched. They broke, each riding in a separate direction. Ryoka saw Califor glance at Nanette. Then, when she turned, Ryoka covered Nanette’s eyes.

She hadn’t seen Witch Califor angry before. The [Witch] leapt from her saddle, landed on the ground, planted the staff in the earth and let go of it. The staff remained fully upright, and Califor spoke to it.

“Grow a second.”

She plucked something from the ground as she stooped. Califor produced a piece of string, wound it to the glass orb, and flicked it.

“Return.”

Finally, she clapped her hands. Three quick gestures—Ryoka stared at Califor as the [Witch]’s head rose to regard the three fleeing figures.

Each one was heading in a different direction. One was riding into the forest bordering Riverfarm, already vanishing from sight, another shooting north, and the last heading south along Riverfarm proper.

The one going through the forest juked left as something shot out of the foliage and tried to hit them. They twisted right—and a tree, an actual tree, exploded around the rider and horse.

The growth of the tree was so fast and violent Ryoka could only imagine it was like being punched by a hundred branches at once. The figure went down; the second, speeding north, was also juking wildly. But the glass orb—Ryoka saw a flash, then an explosion that blinded her for a second.

As for the last? The figure riding southwards suffered neither the returning orb nor the wrath of trees. They just kept going until something hit them.

The wind. Ryoka felt the thunderclap of air blast the final figure, and they dropped like a stone off their horse, who ran for it. The Wind Runner stared at Califor as the [Witch] lifted her staff, ripping it out of the ground, and saw it had begun growing roots!

“Nanette. Are you alright?”

“I’m fine, Witch Califor! What happened?”

Nanette fought Ryoka’s hands off, and the Wind Runner stood. Califor was in the center of a sea of fallen leaves, leaning on her staff, grimacing. As if nothing had happened. Nanette stared about.

“Where did the [Hunters] go? Miss Griffin! Are you alright?”

She turned to Ryoka, and the Wind Runner caught Califor’s warning gaze. The [Witch] glanced towards Riverfarm.

“First, we reach the village. Then we investigate. To the horses, now.”



——



They lost about six minutes riding to Riverfarm, where Ryoka’s shouting had Beniar and his [Riders] in their saddles and chasing after them. Califor deposited Nanette almost on top of Eloise and Hedag.

“Keep her safe. Mavika, there are three of them. [Hunters], it seemed, but ones ready to kill rather than talk. There’s one in the forest that way. Beniar, take your riders north; I am after the one that might still be alive.”

The one she’d windclapped. Ryoka actually raced after Califor, but when they reached the spot where the third [Hunter] had been, all they found was…



——



“Hmm. Ash. We took too long.”

Not just the one Califor had incinerated with the orb; the second [Hunter] was nothing but ash when Califor found the body. Or rather, the remains.

“What? But you just hit him off his horse.”

Ryoka wiped at her brow, feeling at her knee and praying the potion had reversed the damage. Califor bent over a scattering of black soot; all the evidence of the [Hunter].

“Yes. I meant to take this one alive. He fell—here. Then he must have realized I would catch him. My guess is that he killed himself to avoid being taken prisoner. Odd, for a Hunter of Noelictus to do, but if he didn’t wish to be traced back to Noelictus…”

She trailed off, tapping her foot and frowning. Ryoka was still in shock.

“You saved my life. You came back just in time!”

“Or too late. I heard from one of Mavika’s crows about Rehanna and cut short my trip with Nanette. Too late for Rehanna. Too late to take one of these strangers alive. And the last is…fled.”

One of Mavika’s crows was circling the air, and Ryoka heard the screaming.

“Got away! Got away! No body! Hunting!”

Califor sighed.

“That must have been their leader. Higher-level. I thought I’d broken every bone in his body. I only wonder…”

“Wonder what?”

Ryoka was shaken from the experience, but Califor looked troubled almost as much. The [Witch] responded absently.

“[Witch Hunters], [Undead Hunters], and [Demon Hunters] make up three of the kinds of Hunter that Noelictus produces. But they hunt more regular monsters than my kind. It’s rare they’d be so aggressive or attack bystanders like you. These ones carried a lot of magic. Perhaps too much, but then again, if they were sent to deal with us or her…I can only wonder what Belavierr did to Noelictus. Many [Hunters] I have met were downright reasonable.”

“These weren’t. They were going to kill me!”

Califor nodded, checking Ryoka over. The Wind Runner was profusely thanking her when Ryoka saw a dust cloud as Beniar’s [Riders] headed their way. Explanations would be needed, and Califor was glancing at Ryoka and the village. But for this one moment…Ryoka felt like she’d found another piece of a puzzle.

A [Witch Hunter]. Trying to rabble-rouse or tell people about Belavierr. Also gathering information. Why? To stir up trouble?

Or because he was waiting for something? That certainty bothered Ryoka. What was he waiting for? She had almost died, but she was grateful for Witch Califor’s return. Ryoka only hoped that it spelled better news for the village. Rehanna, the fake [Hunters]—

It felt like a kind of chaos even Ryoka didn’t always bring. Swirling around the actions of one person who’d drawn all this trouble here.

Belavierr.





Day 60 – Durene



Telling Laken about all the trouble in Riverfarm, from Rehanna to the strangers Ryoka had met, made Durene feel better. But he didn’t have a magical solution to everything. The reply from Laken was simple. Durene squinted at it over Prost’s shoulder, trying to put the words he was reading to the page.



…Regarding Ryoka’s attackers, I could not find these ‘[Witch Hunters]’ anywhere. Continue patrols, but they may have evaded my sight. Keep vigilant.

Let no one strike a deal with Witch Belavierr. But do not try her yet. Collect evidence for a trial, which I will preside over. If this coven is to be trusted, see what they do when no bargains are struck. And give Rehanna every kindness. Do not take the baby away. Leave her be.

–[Emperor] Laken Godart



Just that. And it didn’t exactly fill Durene with confidence. But it was something. And Prost set out to fulfill Laken’s orders the instant he received them.

“Witch Belavierr!”

A group of men and women, Beycalt, Ram, and Beniar and his [Riders] among them, followed Prost as he confronted the [Witch] in the street. Belavierr was walking. Slowly walking down the street.

It was an ordinary thing, and obviously everyone did it. But Durene shuddered to see Belavierr even do that as she stood behind Prost. After last night, she couldn’t help but suspect even that innocuous action of some dark meaning. Belavierr didn’t turn as Prost strode towards her. The [Steward] called out again.

“Witch Belavierr! By order of His Majesty, Laken Godart, no one in Riverfarm is to strike a deal with you! Until His Majesty arrives, you are to refrain from attempting to bargain with anyone in the Unseen Empire! Is that clear?”

He hurled the last words at full-volume at Belavierr, barely ten feet from her. Not once did the [Witch] turn her head.

“Witch Belavierr! Do you hear me?”

She walked right past him. Prost’s voice gave out for a second. He faltered, staring as she continued down the street. Then he whirled.

Two of the [Witches] were gathered, inspecting a chess board. Eloise and Alevica. The older [Witch] and the Witch Runner were playing, much to [Carpenter] Jelov’s displeasure. But he’d retreated into his open-air studio rather than confront the two. Prost strode over, and Eloise looked up. She regarded him and the small crowd of Riverfarm’s authority behind him.

“Witch Eloise. I have a message from Emperor Godart—”

“I heard, Steward Prost.”

“Witch Belavierr does not appear to have heard me. Will she heed Emperor Laken’s request? If she refuses, we shall have to…”

Prost’s voice trailed off. And Durene wasn’t certain herself of what Prost would do. She’d been eying Belavierr. The woman was tall, but Durene was still taller and a lot bigger. She could surely grab Belavierr and restrain her. But somehow, Durene’s image of that scene never quite seemed to work in her head. Eloise shook her head in reply to Prost’s question.

“She may not have heard you, Steward Prost. But we shall attempt to remind her if she attempts to practice her craft again. That I may promise you.”

“Didn’t hear—”

Ram made a strangled noise. Eloise looked at him and adjusted her hat.

“That is who she is, I’m afraid. And I thank your [Emperor] for his considered response. We will attempt to honor his request.”

Attempt to honor. Even Durene knew that wasn’t a promise. But what could be done?

It was beyond clear that there hadn’t been a real hope of controlling Belavierr via this coven. She had arrived. The fact that she had arrived was an unexpected development for the coven’s plans, for Riverfarm…the other [Witches] were like leaves trying to stop a storm.

Yet for points Belavierr lost, and it was an avalanche of them, the other [Witches] did make up some with their actions. Califor had won praise for apparently reaching three other settlements in her ride before coming back here.

Her defense of Ryoka? Less praise. Few people would admit to having met the ‘[Witch Hunters]’, or that they’d believed what they said about [Witches] in general and Belavierr specifically. There was the faintest suspicion, even after Ryoka’s account, that Califor had attacked innocent people. Or, since there were no bodies, she’d made the entire thing up.

What was clear was that the coven was no closer to their goal of winning Riverfarm over than they had been. Laken? Well, only he could say how he felt.

Annoyed, Prost dismissed the crowd. Which left Durene to look for her house-guests as the sun set.

She’d been watering the fields all day. Some of the [Farmers] had been used to irrigation, but the newly-planted fields didn’t have that yet. It wasn’t too hard to draw water from the river, and in truth, the crops would have survived longer without rain—it was just that to grow them quickly, you wanted a lot of water. Which meant even Durene’s arms hurt from hauling wheelbarrows of water from the river.

That was what she had occupied herself with, and Charlay had actually pitched in! The Centauress had dragged water over to the [Farmers] and only stolen a few handfuls of wheat to snack on. On the other hand, Wiskeria and Ryoka had refrained from helping and instead gone off on their own ways. Durene had no idea what they’d done all day. But she found both at her cottage when she returned with food for a meal.

Ryoka was sitting in Durene’s cottage, staring at a wall. Frostwing was pecking at a handful of nuts. Wiskeria was in her tent. Durene hesitated, but decided to see Ryoka first.

“Ahem. Hi. I brought dinner.”

Durene hefted the basket as she came in. Ryoka turned. Durene was alone; Charlay had stayed in Riverfarm to eat food before coming back to the cottage for a second dinner. Ryoka blinked at the half-Troll girl.

“Durene.”

“Ryoka.”

The two regarded each other. After their last conversation where Ryoka had told Durene she couldn’t help Durene, the two hadn’t really spoken. But, strangely, after the [Bandits] and the not-baby, all their earlier tension had vanished. A large crisis was a wonderful unifier. Durene began unpacking her bag, and after a second, Ryoka got up and tried to help.

Tried, because Durene really knew her kitchen better than Ryoka. But the other young woman was determined, and she could peel potatoes—even if her first reaction was to throw away the skins.

“You can eat those, you know.”

“Oh. Right. Sorry.”

The two worked in silence for a moment. Durene was making a cheesy scallop dish, which was really exorbitant, but the first cheeses had been finished, and Prost had given Durene some to take back with some milk. It was going to be a lovely feast, and one Durene felt was needed. She was concentrating on that, but she knew Ryoka was deep in thought. The City Runner was absently working, her brows drawn. After a while, she spoke.

“Laken told you about my world, didn’t he?”

Durene jumped and sliced her hand with her kitchen knife. Ryoka hissed, but Durene waved her hand.

“It’s alright! Didn’t even get through the first layer of skin!”

“Oh. Right. [Iron Skin], huh? That’s a great Skill.”

“Um. No. Even before I had the Skill, I never cut myself.”

“Really?”

Ryoka looked impressed. Durene smiled. She clenched her hand absently as she got back to work. She could still remember the thump as she hit the [Bandits]. Strange, to be making food now. After a moment, she recalled what Ryoka had said.

“Your world?”

“That’s right. You know about it, right? Laken told you everything?”

Ryoka glanced up. Her brown eyes were searching. Durene paused. Ryoka had hated talking about anything from her world, especially possible inventions. The half-Troll girl nodded at last.

“A bit. Well, he told me lots of stories. I can’t believe most of it, but I know…about airplanes? Cars? Um…electricity and the internet? Guns?”

“Huh. Those are the basics, I guess.”

“Well, he talked about more, but yeah. Why?”

The City Runner was silent as she chopped a potato.

“I went to see Rehanna.”

Durene looked up, missed her potato, and brought the blade down on her fingers. Ryoka stared again. Abashed, Durene cleared her throat.

“Oh. Is she—”

“She’s okay. Actually, she’s pretty good. She was asking for work to do, so I…helped her find more things to do. She’s a [Seamstress]. Did you know that?”

“I didn’t.”

“Well, she’s making clothes. For the…baby.”

“The doll?”

“Her baby. And she’s going to make more for infants and newborns. Which is a good idea, to be honest. They need special clothing. So I got her what she needed.”

“Huh. That’s sort of ironic, her being a [Seamstress] and Belavierr—”

“Yes.”

Silence. Durene kept cutting, although it seemed like Ryoka was edging her hands away from Durene’s knife. After a bit, Ryoka continued.

“So. My world. Has Laken told you about modern medicine?”

“A bit. Just like…you can reattach hands. Or make these medicines—drugs—which aren’t potions, but can cure all kinds of things. But you don’t have potions, so you’re behind in a lot of ways.”

The comment made Ryoka smile, just like it had Laken. She put a few potato slices in the pan as Durene got some firewood out for her stone stove.

“Hm. Yeah, I suppose you could say that. But has he talked about how we deal with sickness other than, uh, physical?”

“No…”

Ryoka nodded. She watched as Durene began to strike her flint and tinder on the kindling. She crouched absently.

“I was thinking about the deal Rehanna made. And the effects.”

“She looks older. Is she going to die soon?”

“What? No. I think she’s about…fifty. And she was in her thirties, maybe. Maybe she’s lost more time, but she should have anywhere from a decade or more. But she will die earlier.”

“Yeah.”

“Even so. Was it a good deal?”

Durene paused as she put her milk and cheese-covered scalloped potatoes over the growing fire.

“What? That doll’s awful! Did you see it?”

Ryoka met her eyes and nodded.

“Yes. I did. And that’s why I’m thinking. Uh, your hand’s in the fire, by the way.”

“Oops.”

Durene put the pan over the hot fire. She’d have to watch the potatoes to make sure the part over the fire didn’t get too hot and burn. She tended to her dish as Ryoka went on.

“We don’t make things like that…doll. But we do prescribe medication for ill people. There are a lot of parallels between what we do in my world and what the [Witches] do. I think that’s what Eloise does, in a way. She’s a therapist. And a pharmacist, if her teas are magical.”

“I have no idea what those are. Are they like [Doctors]? Laken says your world has [Doctors] instead of [Healers].”

“Specialized [Doctors], yeah. But that’s my point. Belavierr—she’s a different sort. She took Rehanna’s life, yes. And her hate. But she gave her…in my world, we have medicines that really change you. Even our painkillers just…take away pain. Morphine. And we prescribe medicine for depression. Not for loss—unless we diagnose it as needing treatment. But medicine, therapy—magic’s different, yet similar, right?”

Durene didn’t know where Ryoka was going with this. But she nodded as she watched the fire and Ryoka out of the corner of her eye. The young woman was pacing.

“You could argue that Belavierr’s just a—a—she’s giving Rehanna a vision of her baby. Is there anything wrong with that?”

“Yep. It’s not real.”

“No—that’s not the problem, Durene. It’s what Rehanna paid. She gave up part of her life. That’s the real problem. Otherwise, what’s the problem with the baby if it had been given freely?”

Durene opened her mouth to protest that the baby was creepy, had given her nightmares—but Ryoka was right. It hadn’t done anything to anyone. Except Rehanna.

“Isn’t what it’s doing to Rehanna bad?”

“What? Making her happy? I was thinking about that. It’s a mental crutch. She’s dependent on that, and anyone could tell you that’s unhealthy. But—”

She shook her head.

“The main problem is what Belavierr took from Rehanna. She thought it was fair. But she wasn’t in her right mind when she made that deal. Again, not everyone is. If we fault Rehanna for making a deal while she’s grieving, what about someone who…drinks when they’re depressed, or if they’ve just lost a friend? A wife? They have a right to do what they want to themselves. If they endanger themselves, that’s another thing, but is this wrong? Rehanna’s harmed herself. But then again—”

Ryoka had never talked this much in Durene’s presence. Ever. The half-Troll girl said as much as she carefully checked her baking scallops, all without gloves. Ryoka smiled bitterly.

“I’m a regular chatterbox when it comes to debates or issues like this. Moral ones, I mean. I’m just trying to work out whether it’s right or not. Objectively. Is the baby good for Rehanna if you take out the cost of the deal?”

“It looks wrong, Ryoka. How can you look at that and be okay?”

Durene objected as she found a spoon. She directed Ryoka to a cupboard with plates. Ryoka sighed as she set four. She looked back.

“Have you looked at Rehanna’s face, Durene? Today, I mean.”

“No. I didn’t even see her once.”

“Not everyone did. But they’re not locking her up in her house. I visited her, Durene. She’s smiling. She’s happy. Genuinely. This isn’t her being high on a drug or delusional. She got mad when I annoyed her, and she’s not delirious. But she is happy. How is that wrong?”

Durene had no answer. Silently, she put the scallops on a table. Charlay was trotting towards the cottage, but she’d stopped to get Wiskeria out of her tent. Bismarck was staring through the kitchen window as Frostwing choked on a nut and then spat it out. Ryoka sighed.

“I don’t think it was a good decision, what Rehanna did. If I were in her place, I would never do it. But I’m not a mother. I haven’t lost a husband. Part of me—most of me—says that regardless of what she thinks, that there’s a cost beyond Rehanna cutting her life by twenty years or in half or whatever she did. But what if there’s not? What if it really is fair? In that case, why not take it?”

She leaned on the table, staring at the scallops as if they were a gateway to the soul. Durene silently checked to see if she had any alcohol. She did not. Ryoka sighed.

“I want to believe we can’t run away from our problems, can’t rely on things or use magic to…escape. Back home, I relied on coffee to get up. I needed my medication, or I had a bad day. I…relied on my parents’ money. On the government and laws that surrounded me. I leaned on all these things. If I could have something that made me happy—would I pay ten years of my life? Twenty? What about just one?”

“Hey, Ryoka! Hey, Durene! Ooh! Are those cheesy potatoes! I’m not a fan of cheese.”

Charlay trotted into the cottage, practically dragging in Wiskeria behind her. Ryoka didn’t look up from the table.

“If you could be happy whenever you wanted, Durene, would you give up ten minutes of your lifespan? If the answer’s yes, isn’t giving up more for less or anything else just…haggling? Do we have a right to condemn Rehanna for her decision to choose happiness? If she were permanently sick and decided to trade half her lifespan for being well for the rest of her shorter life, would we fault her? Can we blame her for wanting to see her child again? What right do we have to choose for her? Or judge her?”

They stared at her, Centaur, half-Troll, [Witch], Mossbear, and blue bird. Charlay silently opened the door and trotted out.

“Bathroom! Tell me when she’s normal.”

“I don’t think there are good answers, Ryoka. Nice potatoes, Durene. But I know that I can’t forgive my mother for what she does. Maybe Rehanna’s happy. But my mother still stole her life. She does that.”

Wiskeria answered as she sat down quietly. Ryoka glanced at her. And then she sat down across from Wiskeria. She shook her head, and Durene closed the door in Bismarck’s face.

“Your mother preyed on Rehanna in a moment of weakness, Wiskeria. That’s true. But she also gave Rehanna something. If she asked for one year, could you live with that?”

Wiskeria had been relaxing; now, she clenched a fork in one hand and spoke slowly. A note of real vexation entered her tone as she met Ryoka’s gaze.

“You don’t know what she does. This is the least of what she’s capable of. I appreciate your philosophy, Ryoka. I don’t think it’s needed right now.”

She stared at Ryoka, her eyes flashing. The City Runner did not look away.

“I’m just asking if, in this case, it was at all reasonable from her perspective—”

“Reasonable?”

Wiskeria slammed one hand on the table. Durene nervously tried to put a plate down.

“Um—let’s have some potatoes, everyone. Ryoka, we can talk about this later—”

Too late. The [Witch] was on her feet in a rare show of anger, and Ryoka was raising her hands.

“I’m not saying it’s good—”

“You think you can moralize with my mother? With the Witch of Webs? ‘Reasonable, says the louse to the spider!’ You’ve seen one of her smallest works, that took her five seconds to make, and you just found some grand, philosophical argument to resolve? She gave Rehanna’s deal less attention than you would to scratch an itch! Enough.”

Ryoka colored as Wiskeria sneered at her.

“But she did help Rehanna. Wiskeria, I’m just trying to figure her out.”

“She made a deal. No more, no less. I know you like to think you know all, Ryoka—don’t try to figure my mother out. You don’t know her. You don’t know her stories.”

Wiskeria whirled away to help Durene with the cooking, and Ryoka snapped back. She’d recently been nearly killed by those [Witch Hunters], and she had a temper, Durene knew.

“Oh, and you’re so sure she’s completely crazy and unchangeable? Have you actually, seriously talked to her? Because I haven’t seen you talk to your mother!”

“We have nothing to talk about.”

“What about Rehanna?”

The blue-haired [Witch] closed her eyes.

“Why would I talk to the end product of something I have seen too many times? Talk to my mother. Hello, table. How are you doing?”

Wiskeria stared sarcastically down at the table. She stood there as Durene nervously put the potatoes on a plate. The steaming scalloped potatoes grew colder. Wiskeria’s glare could have burnt them to a crisp. Ryoka cleared her throat after a few seconds.

“Listen, I know it’s pers—”

“Shut up! If I speak to this table long enough, it will probably answer, even if it takes an age for it to regrow into a tree, then a Dryad. I will enjoy that. More than my mother.”

“I’m trying to help, Wiskeria. I just think you’re being unreasonable. And I can tell; I’m often unreasonable too.”

“Yes. You are.”

Wiskeria met Ryoka’s eyes, and the Wind Runner exhaled, then glowered over the table at her.

The door cracked open, and Charlay peeked in.

“Um. Everything okay?”

“Yes.”

Ryoka and Wiskeria glared at the Centauress. Durene decided to start ladling food out before someone threw a dish.

The dinner was silent. Wiskeria, not exactly happy beforehand, looked angry and distraught. Ryoka was still thinking. Twice, she tried to keep talking, and Durene interjected with a loud joke, or Charlay decided to regale everyone with one of her famous runs. Wiskeria and Ryoka just stared at each other.

It wasn’t even as if Ryoka had been angry at Wiskeria. But—who was right and who was wrong? As Durene let Frostwing and Bismarck finish off the scraps of scallops, the half-Troll girl had to think that was Ryoka summed up. Someone had to be right and wrong. And Ryoka was thinking about Rehanna. She had visited her. Where the others shuddered and drew away, Ryoka looked at the crying child made of cloth. And at Belavierr. She did not draw away.

That night, Durene was exhausted. She still hadn’t caught up on sleep since the…baby. So she retired early, and everyone was tired enough to join her. Wiskeria left the cottage, and Ryoka and Charlay bedded down with Durene.

The three bodies made the cottage smaller and warm. But it was still comfortable. Durene lay in her kitchen, staring at the ceiling. She was ready to drop off and get some good sleep. Tomorrow would…well, tomorrow would be different. Hopefully. But as she was closing her eyes, wondering if she’d level as a [Farmer], Durene heard Ryoka’s voice.

“If you could give up a toe, an arm, fingers, or years of your life, gold—anything, Durene. If you could give it up and be Human or change how you looked. Who you were. Would you do it? Is that worse than Rehanna?”

Durene’s eyes shot open. She stared at the ceiling. Then she sat up. Ryoka was sitting up in bed, head in her hands. The half-Troll stared at her. Then she reached behind her. She threw her pillow at Ryoka as hard as she could and lay back down.

Ryoka did too after a moment. She had never known that feathers could hurt that much.





Night 60 – Wiskeria



The [Witch] did not go back to her tent immediately. She stared at the cottage for a long time. And her stomach churned despite Durene’s cooking actually being good. But Wiskeria hadn’t tasted much of it. Ryoka’s words had bothered her too much.

The pretentiousness of someone to lecture Wiskeria on talking to her mother! The worst part was that it stuck a bit because there was truth in the statement. Even if it was an idiot’s point…it was a point.

It felt, to Wiskeria, like when she had observed someone locked out of their home in a city, trying the doorknob as they felt for their pockets, looking for a key, figuring out what to do. They kept rattling the doorknob as if expecting it to unlock. Hoping it might.

Now…she understood how they felt.

So Wiskeria walked into Riverfarm. The journey from Durene’s cottage was silent. Few people were about on the streets. Two of the Darksky Riders passed her, doing sweeps, but they saw her clearly in the darkness and only greeted her quietly.

Wiskeria knew where Rehanna’s house was. A light still burned in the window. And another Darksky Rider had been posted outside the door. The man let Wiskeria in after a moment’s conversation. She had been a [General].

But it was a [Witch] and a daughter who went to see Rehanna. Wiskeria paused when she came in through the doorway.

The woman was…working. Quietly, humming to herself. She had some cloth spread out on the table, and she was neatly pinning sections together, ready for sewing. She was making something small. Very carefully creating…Wiskeria’s heart twisted.

“Baby clothes?”

Rehanna looked up. Wiskeria braced, but the woman’s face lit up. She stood.

“Miss Wiskeria! What brings you here?”

She curtseyed. That was the worst part. Part of Wiskeria wanted to run. Just seeing Rehanna’s graying hair, the way she was slightly stiff as she tried to offer Wiskeria a chair—all of it hurt. She shouldn’t have come here, no matter what Ryoka had said.

Then Rehanna surprised her. The woman smiled as she pointed back towards her room.

“I would offer you tea, but he’s sleeping. How can I help you? Or are you checking up on me like the rest?”

She smiled as she went back to pinning the clothes together. Wiskeria stared at them, at the needles and thread. Then she looked at the woman.

“The—your baby’s sleeping?”

She’d meant to say the doll, because that was what it was. But she couldn’t. Not in front of Rehanna. The woman nodded.

“Mihka. That’s a name my husband and I came up with together. He’s Mihka. The very same. I don’t know how Lady Belavierr did it.”

She used your memories. Wove them like a thread into the baby. You’re making him as much as her magic. Wiskeria bit her lip. She paused.

“I—I just came to see you, Rehanna.”

“I’m glad you did. I wanted to apologize for how I have behaved.”

“No—you have every reason.”

The woman paused.

“I might. I was angry at you for being a [General]. For not being punished. But I still attacked you for doing what you did. I regret it now, because it was senseless. I ruined friendships. I hope I can mend them. And I am so grateful to your mother.”

“Don’t say that. Please.”

The [Witch]’s head sank. She tugged her hat lower, as if it could hide reality. Rehanna looked surprised.

“But she’s done me such a favor. I only wish you could see it. You, Mister Prost, and the others. I understand you fear Mihka, but he’s no threat to anyone. You mustn’t take him. I couldn’t bear it again, Miss Wiskeria. Tell the others. Please.”

She looked at Wiskeria, and there was a bright sincerity, a pleading in her eyes. The [Witch] hesitated. She looked at the table, at the cloth, the baby’s clothes.

“Are you happy, Rehanna? After making the deal?”

“Can’t you tell? I actually want to work. And I’m happy. Actually happy. I didn’t think I’d ever be happy again. Not after Mihka—and then the news from Lancrel.”

The woman smiled. She was teary-eyed. Wiskeria clenched her hands.

“But Rehanna. I—no, I have to say this. The baby. Your Mihka. He won’t ever grow up. You understand that, right? He’ll always be a baby. And your life—”

Rehanna took Wiskeria’s clenched fist and put her own hands on it. She was frail, now. The vigor of a younger woman—and she had been younger, still with decades to go before this point—

It was gone. Wiskeria saw time pressing down on Rehanna, so hard that the woman had to feel it and suffer. But even now? Her smile was so bright it was painful. Happiness…Wiskeria saw it in Rehanna, painful, paid for at a great price, but there. To Rehanna, purely genuine.

“My life’s shorter now. I know that. I know that too. She told me all of it. Mihka won’t grow, and I’m close to my grave, if sickness or accidents or monsters don’t take me first. And that’s fine. I’m still eternally grateful for what she did.”

Rehanna looked at Wiskeria. The [Witch] paused.

“Then—why the clothing? He’ll never wear it!”

The clothing Rehanna was making was too large. It was for an older child, one that needed more than swaddling. Rehanna shook her head, smiling.

“It’s not for Mihka. It’s for another child. I don’t know who. But more than a few women are pregnant, and children will need clothing. I can make that for them. That’s what I can do. I think I’ll be happy. No—I am happy already.”

“But it’s an illusion. A spell. It’s not real, Rehanna. That baby isn’t—”

Rehanna stopped her. The woman shook her head. Now, her bright eyes started to overflow.

“I know that. Do you think I don’t? Lady Belavierr showed me what she would make. But I said yes. Because when I held him, he turned into Mihka. The same baby from my dreams. The exact same. And I think my man—I couldn’t pay the second price. I wouldn’t. But sometimes I can hear him, or I feel him. Lady Belavierr did that for me. And more. The baby’s more than just a…fake thing, Wiskeria.”

Tears ran down her cheeks. Rehanna placed a hand on her chest.

“Wiskeria. It doesn’t hurt anymore. Don’t you understand? Do you know how angry I was? How sad and angry and—have you ever felt that way? So much so that you could die?”

Of course. Wiskeria nodded.

“Your mother took that pain away. It won’t come back. For that, I’d have paid almost anything. And I did. She told me she wanted a fair deal. And it was fair. For me, more than fair. I know you might think of me as a fool. But I am happy. Please. Let me be happy.”

“And you will be?”

The woman gave her a tearful smile as she dabbed at her eyes.

“I think I will be. I made a choice, and Mihka will help me no matter what comes. It’s better this way, Wiskeria. It truly is. Thank you for coming, but I must be abed if I want to work tomorrow.”

She politely but firmly showed Wiskeria to the door. It was only after she’d closed and bolted it that Wiskeria realized Rehanna had kicked her out. The [Witch] stared at the closed door.

There was some of Rehanna there. Even happy as she was. But how much? How much was there, and how much had Belavierr torn away? There was no answer. But the second question Ryoka had asked Wiskeria burned in her mind. So she turned as the light in Rehanna’s house winked out.

Wiskeria stomped into the street, foul of mood. She began to curse as she walked ahead. Few people were even awake this late at night, but one group, having been drinking late after working ‘hard’ all day, saw Wiskeria as she stalked away from Rehanna’s house.

“Damn you, Ryoka Griffin. Damn your fickle words and philosophy half-baked for a scene you saw play out, as if it were the truth to every piece of her and me.”

Councilwoman Beatica was never one to run from a fight, you had to give it to her. She and a gaggle of her Lancrel cronies spotted Wiskeria and were about to accost her…until they heard Wiskeria’s ranting. Well, almost a chant now.

“A curse on you, Griffin, who sees a pebble and says she knows the mountain whole. I curse you by moon-filled nights, twice over by each moon, thrice by fake [Hunters] and ill-deeds and iller-conceived plans. I curse your false pretenses, as Lesegoth before the fall. I curse your haughty attitude and arrogance.”

Wiskeria hadn’t cursed like this since she was small, before she knew what it meant to curse someone. She hadn’t done a blood sacrifice or invoked a name of power; she wasn’t even in a ritual place. Councilwoman Beatica opened her mouth—then saw shadows twisting around Wiskeria’s boots.

Bile dripping from Wiskeria’s mouth. Beatica pressed herself against a house, eyes wide, as Wiskeria continued.

“—curse you from the Kingdom of Shades and grave soil and each and every grief my mother’s caused. I curse you by her victims, you feckless, windblown shit. I curse you to rue the day you take your knowledge as gospel and curse you to regret your arrogance in preaching your pathetic truth. One day, you shall defend monsters like and kin to my mother, if any could ever be worse than she. Let there be no peace between you and others till you humble yourself off your highest horse or it kicks you into the dirt.”

She savagely kicked a piece of dirt to end her cursing. It was, perhaps, the least-effective curse the world had ever seen, but it made Wiskeria feel better. Ryoka Griffin had no idea, none, why Wiskeria had cut ties with her mother. She thought Rehanna was debatable? Maybe it was.

Maybe it was. If all Belavierr did was steal age for pained happiness, she would be a fine mother. The best. Wiskeria closed her eyes.

At least Rehanna was happy. How many others could say that after they got what Belavierr offered? Ryoka had no idea, which was only partially her fault.

Wiskeria could have told her the entire story, but why should she? The [Witch] stood there, thinking back to the girl who had once thought much like Ryoka. Then she wearily decided to try the doorknob one more time.

Partly so she could just rub it in Ryoka’s face.



—–



Wiskeria didn’t know where her mother was. Or if she even had a house to sleep in. Wiskeria doubted it, but she didn’t need to ask. All she had to do was lift her hat off her head and toss it.

It was a dark blue hat. Not as dark as Belavierr’s own clothing, which could be black if you had no eye for the color. But dark blue. A simple hat, meant for a [Witch], with minimal flair. And that was what Wiskeria had wanted. But the hands that had sewn it had not been simple. They had mimicked unoriginality so well that sometimes Wiskeria forgot.

But the [Fireball] that had nearly killed her had reminded her. Where her clothes had burnt away to protect her as part of Belavierr’s charm, the hat had remained.

And it had one other trick. One other element, besides the fact that it had grown with Wiskeria since she was six to always fit her head. A long time ago, a humble [Stitch Witch] who worked across no-name villages in Terandria had sewn something for her daughter. For the tearful child who was afraid of being lost and not finding her mother, who could be forgetful. Ever since that day, Wiskeria had never been lost again.

So for the first time in eight years, Wiskeria lifted her hat and tossed it up. And the hat flew. It caught a breeze, and Wiskeria cursed and chased after it as it was blown across the street. She ran after it, her replacement robe catching the same dry wind.

The hat tumbled down onto the street and around a corner. Wiskeria ran after it, her legs burning, cursing as the hat eluded her time and time again, blown by the infuriating breeze. At last it stopped, and the [Witch] snatched at it, picked it up, and glared at it. Then she put it on her head and looked around.

The street was gone. So was Riverfarm. Wiskeria’s legs hurt, and she was breathless. She realized—in that way memory has of catching up—that she’d been running for seventeen minutes, almost. Quite some distance. But she was where she needed to be, because here was a slight hill. Beyond it, the two moons rose, one waxing, the other waning. Sitting under a tree, her wide hat lowered, her knees partially stretched out, was Belavierr.

Wiskeria caught her breath as she saw her mother. Belavierr’s clothing was as dark as the night. Her head bowed. Her huge hat covered all but the bottom of her face. But one hand was extended. It held something. And the midnight stallion, a giant of his kind, bent and ate from the palm.

Even this was uncanny. Because the stallion made no sound. Nor was what he ate food. Wiskeria was almost certain he was the same horse that had used to carry her about. The same one that had never been bothered when she’d pulled at his ears and had carried her and her mother about the village. And hadn’t it been a surprise when Wiskeria had ridden her first horse who objected to ear-pulling instead of taking it as a sign of affection?

This one was dark. Larger than the horse in her memory as a child, but her mother could have altered him. Wiskeria was almost positive the horse was a thing of cloth. Or if it had been alive, she had stitched him together. He didn’t look up as Wiskeria walked forwards. Nor did Belavierr. Few things could attract Belavierr’s attention.

Even at the end, when the mob had chased them away, Wiskeria remembered it. Screaming for her mother to run, reaching back from the horse’s back, looking behind at the villagers burning their cottage, the child Belavierr had made as the father shouted and strained in the arms of the people who held them—even then, Belavierr’s gaze had been distant, absent as she walked away. She had only looked up when she heard Wiskeria cry and seen the tears. And then—

“Belavierr. Witch Belavierr.”

The hat didn’t rise. The hand didn’t move. Belavierr was still, like a statue—no, a tapestry. Because the wind still moved her dress. The horse still pretended to breathe. It was a scene. And as Wiskeria drew closer, she saw what Belavierr was doing.

As she gave her horse the loose thread it was eating like a snack, her other hand was held out, dangling something in front of Belavierr’s bowed head. She was inspecting something. A bit of thread, tied up in a complex fashion, but still just a single unbroken thread.

Wiskeria recognized it. One of her mother’s ward-spells. She had no idea how powerful it could be. Normally, she’d want to make a spell or ward out of strong emotion and magic. Conventional artifacts of great power, for instance, were never made of pot metal or clay because those were weak materials. Of course, you could make a very specifically powerful wooden enchanted sword, but material mattered.

Unfortunately, Belavierr’s craft was such that logic stopped applying to her abilities. Grand magic could turn even weak thread into powerful tools. It was probably a thread made from a Griffin’s mane or something, anyways.

It was also trembling. Wiskeria paused. That usually meant the magic was being used. She didn’t know what this ward spell did. Perhaps it had stopped some bird droppings from landing on her mother’s hat? Or…it had done something else.

It was just more of the same. Wiskeria squared her shoulders. She had come here for a reason. And she should have done this long ago. Ryoka was infuriating, but she was also right.

“Mother.”

The head rose, and Wiskeria felt a bitter pleasure. She had loved, in that long ago, that only one word and one voice could ever make Belavierr react consistently. But now she looked down and saw that ringed gaze, the orange, luminescent eyes, and she saw…

“Daughter. Do you need something of me?”

Belavierr stood in one motion. She looked down at her daughter, and Wiskeria stared up at her. And just like that…it was like she was a child again.

Without hesitation, despite her task or work—Belavierr stopped and put aside her craft for only one being ever. Her daughter.

It used to make Wiskeria feel so special. Even now, she understood what it meant.

Do you need something of me? Ask and you shall receive. Wiskeria was tempted to ask for a fish or to see the moon and show Ryoka what such requests meant.

But she didn’t.

She sat, regarding the charm, and Belavierr sat too.

“You’re making a ward.”

“Yes. Many of my magics were shattered. Lost. Burnt away or ripped to shreds. You see?”

Belavierr lifted an arm, and Wiskeria saw it. The same strands of broken fiber, like a spiderweb but infinitely more thin and vast, trailed behind her. Wiskeria’s breath caught.

“So it’s true. How many is…? What did that? An Elder Creler?”

“No. That would not be enough. See, Daughter? I have not been so weak in mortal ages. It will take aeons to rebuild. But I begin with thread by thread. As we must.”

Belavierr went back to working, and Wiskeria could admire that. Kick over a sandcastle and Belavierr would rebuild it grain by grain. If it mattered.

“Who did this? What did? What happened in Noelictus, Mother?”

The Stitch Witch’s lips pursed.

“It is a long story. I do not wish to tell my part of it completely. I shall, if you ask.”

“Is…someone going to tell a famous tale about it? A [Bard]?”

Wiskeria would actually prefer to hear it like that than from her mother, who told complex stories, much like the thread she wove. Belavierr stared at her thread, and Wiskeria saw an actual glower.

“Perhaps. But not in song. I would be displeased by a song.”

Now that…that was interesting. Wiskeria raised her brows.

“Someone bested you with a song?”

Dead silence. Wiskeria crossed her legs. She refused to give Ryoka any credit, but seeing her mother so upset gave her a kind of schadenfreude.

“Mother, I ask you tell me the story in its entirety.”

And because she asked—Belavierr did. The Stitch Witch looked up, sighed as she wove her anger and annoyance into the charm, and began to speak.

“It began when I sensed ghosts.”

“In Noelictus?”

“Yes.”

“What…actual ghosts? You couldn’t ever summon them for me; you said they were hiding from you and something else. You found actual—”

“Daughter. I am trying to explain. It began with ghosts.”

“When was this? Give me a date.”

“After you left.”

“Everything is after I left, Mother. Years? Months? A decade?”

“…After you left, I noticed ghosts.”

“How many?”



——



It was hard to say who grew more exhausted from listening to a story from Belavierr. Wiskeria interrupted constantly, but she had to.

Belavierr had no sense of time, distance, or even…people. When she said ‘I went there’, did she mean she walked a thousand miles, projected herself, or something else? When she said ‘there’, she might mean palaces or forsaken bogs.

Plus, she didn’t know the minutiae, the drama of the Kingdom of Shades, and had mentioned an entire war…and had no details on what had actually happened. Wiskeria was sure there was a better version of the story out there, but she got pieces.

“Alright, so there were ghosts, a [Singer], a lot of angry [Knights] and [Hunters], a war…and they ruined your big plan. The one you were working on when I was a kid. Those stupid Helpful Servants.”

Belavierr paused as Wiskeria summed up what had taken hours in this place away from places to retell.

“My great work.”

“Your stupid Helpful Servants. I never liked them. Even less when I learned who they were. There was a reason you never showed them to me until I was older, Mother.”

Belavierr didn’t dignify this with an answer. She sat, the loop of thread she’d begun now so complex it resembled a creature of its own, which flexed and moved with each new loop. Perhaps it would be alive; Wiskeria could imagine this ward protecting Belavierr from…well, anything.

“And they beat you. I can’t understand how.”

“It was not they who did it. A few were dangerous. But when I strove against them, my magic was shambles, Daughter. I told you: the tale of the others matters little. It was what ate my magic as I worked.”

“As you were distracted. Mice, you called them?”

“Yes.”

Belavierr’s eyes were wrathful. Mice. Something had stolen away with her mother’s power. Whoever they were—Wiskeria didn’t envy them. She got up and paced around.

“So something took a lot of your power, and it allowed your plans to fall to dust. Now, you’re on the run from them, and you chose to come here and bring all this trouble down on the Witches of Izril. And me! And Riverfarm!”

“I wished to see you, Daughter. I have grown more…awake with my protections ruined. I lost much, and I wished to see you.”

Wiskeria turned away. Belavierr might mean it. Or might think she meant it. It didn’t matter. Wiskeria took a huge breath. This was—hard. Hard, but it had been her idea, and so she turned back. There was no point beating around the bush; her mother didn’t care.

“Mother. I need a favor of you. A big one.”

“Of course. Name it, and I will do it if it is within my power.”

Wiskeria nodded. She looked into Belavierr’s eyes, and they were familiar. She didn’t know why people shuddered. If you stared long enough, you could see what was in the ever-smaller rings. Deeper and deeper. Wiskeria hesitated. And then she spoke.

“Mother. Please stop using your stitch-magic. Please throw away your creations of thread. I—I beg you, as your daughter. Stop using your charms and curses of needles and cloth. Don’t use any of it.”

It was hard to say. Harder than Wiskeria had thought. But it was a relief to come out with it, even if Wiskeria knew the answer. She lowered her head. Belavierr paused. But then she nodded.

“Very well, Daughter. For how long?”

Wiskeria’s head snapped up. She gaped at Belavierr.

“What? You’ll do it?”

She hadn’t expected that! But if Belavierr said it, it was true. That—that would change everything! Laken, Riverfarm, the hostility against [Witches]—for a second, she grew excited, and she searched her mother’s eyes for a hint of a lie.

The bright gaze never wavered. Belavierr inclined her head slightly.

“Of course. For you, Daughter. How long do you ask this of me?”

Oh. Of course. Wiskeria closed her eyes. But—could she live with that? She looked up, biting her lip.

“Two hundred years. Can you do that, Mother?”

“Of course. If you wish it, for two hundred years I will use no spell of stitching, no cloth artifacts or magic of thread and needle. Does this satisfy you?”

Belavierr said it as if it were the lightest thing in the world. Even her daughter had to stare. But then Wiskeria nodded. She even smiled.

“Yes! Yes! Of course! Thank you, Mother.”

For a moment, she envisioned throwing her arms around her mother, like she’d seen other children do. But Belavierr’s face didn’t change one whit. Wiskeria hesitated, and the moment was gone.

Belavierr bent forwards and regarded her daughter. She paused again.

“It is what you wish, Daughter. But why do you ask it of me?”

“Because I don’t want you to take lives, like you did to Rehanna, Mother. So—you will do it? For two hundred years, you won’t steal life or trade curses? You’ll be better. Maybe I could learn from you or help you. Without all that, I could be proud of…”

“Ah.”

That one sound pierced Wiskeria’s heart. Belavierr straightened. And then slowly, she shook her head.

“No. I’m afraid you misunderstand me, Daughter. I will not do that. I will give up my stitch-spells and pacts of thread. But the deal I made with the woman Rehanna I will continue to make. Else I would die.”

“But—you promised!”

Wiskeria stared up at her mother, shocked. Belavierr never lied. Yet the Stitch Witch didn’t appear guilty.

“I promised to give up my magic. My spells and lore. For you, Daughter, I would give it away and seal my knowledge for two hundred years. But what you ask is different. You ask that I would change my craft. The very essence of what I am.”

“Yes! Will you do it? I will never ask you for anything again, Mother! Please?”

“No.”

The word echoed. And the face that delivered it never changed.

Then Wiskeria felt something hurting in her chest and cursed Ryoka. If she hadn’t tried…Belavierr gently drew out Wiskeria’s pain and regret and, yes, damned love and wove it into her charm.

“I do not understand why you are sad, Daughter. Is this not what you wish? I could capture another fish for you. Would you like another dress? These are easier things to do, instead. I cannot change my nature.”

That was what was the worst of Belavierr. Not her magic or her deeds. It was the way she moved through life, uncaring. Uninterested. It hurt to argue with her. Wiskeria clenched her hands, her nails digging into her flesh.

“But that is all I want. All I want from you, Mother. I would be happy if you did this.”

“It is my craft.”

“It hurts people. You take their lives, Mother. You take their emotions. You take. And you hurt people. Sometimes, you kill—because someone asks it of you.”

“Yes. Because we make a fair deal.”

Fair. Wiskeria’s head snapped up, and then she raged at her mother. She stood, shaking.

“Don’t talk to me of fairness! Don’t talk like Ryoka, who’s grown half a brain and thinks she can talk about good and evil! Fair? What about Ostevien? You don’t even remember him, but do you think that was fair?”

Belavierr paused in her sewing and seemed to check something in the air. A thread only she could see.

“Ah. Now we come to the heart of it, Daughter. Though which heart and why, I know not. You are angry. I do not know why. You speak a name, and I…remember it?”

She raised a hand to her head, concentrating.

“There was a boy.”

“He and I grew up together. He was my only friend!”

“Ah. Yes.”

She didn’t care. Or maybe she did care, but only for Wiskeria. Belavierr shrugged.

“He pleased you.”

“He was brave, honest, and the only person who was willing to trust you—and me! His mother, his entire damn kingdom offered you—me—the chance of a lifetime.”

“Of their lifetimes, yes. It was a bargain for them. Did I not save his life when we first met?”

Wiskeria was fuming, but she knew she had to explain—again—the past so her mother would even understand why she was upset. She stabbed a finger into her palm.

“Let’s get one thing straight, Mother. Yes. You saved his life when you met him because he fell off a Griffin. And the entire Kingdom of Kaliv was in your debt! But Oste trusted you. He liked me. When he offered me friendship, not just a bargain, it was the happiest time of my life.”

“I recall taking a bargain to protect Kaliv. For you, Daughter. That was my love. It was unprofitable, save where you were happy. Thus, I balanced the scales.”

That was her love. Wiskeria closed her eyes.

“Yes, and I still thank you for it, Mother. Because that, of all things, made me a person. Oste and I had so much fun.”

“I see. This is good. Why do you hold it against me?”

“Because of how it ended.”

The Stitch Witch stopped sewing and looked up. She held a needle in her hand that looked like it had been cut from the moon itself, a sliver of reality. If she willed it, she could have pulled down the moon like a balloon and attached it to a string.

Or so Wiskeria believed. So a child had believed, and who knew? It might have been true. But the one thing Belavierr could not do was understand her daughter.

This troubled her so much that, again, the Stitch Witch put aside her work and rested her chin upon her hand.

“I shall think on the matter.”

Wiskeria waited, pacing back and forth, as Belavierr mused out loud.

“It ended in flight. Hunted as a thousand Griffins bearing riders took to the skies. To fly against me in violation of their treaty and die. But I killed them not, for my daughter begged—”

“No. Before that.”

Belavierr sat there, puzzled. Then her eyes whirled, and she stared back through time as though it were a looking glass.

“Upon her throne, the Griffin Queen, Novakya, wept. She exiled her only son.”

“Why, Mother? What did you do?”

The Stitch Witch sat there, and at last, her eyes brightened. She looked up and, with a smile, answered Wiskeria’s crime.

“My beloved Daughter came to me with a request. So I fulfilled it. As I have always done. Ostevien was the boy’s name. I offered him a pact of old, a great pact, at no cost, which endures to this day. Only for you.”

She looked at Wiskeria, and the younger [Witch] wept. Tears fell from her eyes; the tears she had only learned to cry on that day. First in her life, a young woman of sixteen. The day she became a [Witch].

“Daughter. Why do you cry? I still do not understand.”

Belavierr lifted a finger as if to stem the flow of tears. Wiskeria answered in a choked voice.

“Because I ruined his life. Because you did, Mother.”

“The opposite is true.”

“No. No. He did not know what he asked for. I didn’t either. That day, I beheld your cruelty. Ryoka can talk all she wants about the good and ill you do—the Helpful Servants? Is that fairness?”

“It is a pact they agreed to, Daughter. If you are sad, I would undo my promise with the boy. However. It was sealed in the old ways. For you? I could try?”

“Would it destroy him?”

“Perhaps.”

Wiskeria turned away. She couldn’t do this. Once, she had thought she understood her mother, and it had been perfect and fine what Belavierr did. Trades that you could not regret for they were fair.

Now? She knew she was still Belavierr’s daughter, but she could not forgive. Either herself or her mother.

“There is no kindness, mercy, nor equality in what you do, Mother.”

“Of course not. It is an exchange. When one wishes, another’s wishes are destroyed. That is how all things are done, Daughter.”

She paused. Belavierr glanced up, and a slight frown crossed her features.

“We have had this conversation before.”

“Yes. We have. And I still can’t accept it, Mother.”

Wiskeria was crying. But she refused to sob or scream. Belavierr would not understand. She tried one last time.

“Mother. I want you to change. I want you to stop killing because you’re asked. Stop stealing life and—and offering these deals. Stop your craft. Practice other magic. No—keep using your stitch-magic. But don’t—take like you do. Can you do that? For me?”

Belavierr paused. For a moment, for one wonderful, frightening moment, Wiskeria thought she might agree. But at last, she shook her head.

“No, Daughter. You ask for more than I can give.”

“But why—”

“Because I would fight for you, Daughter. I would take lives for you. I would use my magic. Defend. Protect. Seek what you desire. But you ask me to change my craft. To change who I am. If I did so, I would not be Belavierr. I would not be your mother.”

She gazed down. Wiskeria saw Belavierr’s lips move. She saw, but it took her minutes to understand. When she did, her eyes did fill with more tears.

“Oh.”

Belavierr was trying to smile. But she had forgotten how. Wiskeria’s eyes ran, and wetness trickled down her cheeks. Belavierr’s smile vanished. She reached down.

“Daughter. You are crying again.”

“I know, Mother.”

“Why are you crying? Are you hurt? Do you need something?”

“No. No, I—”

Wiskeria brushed away the hand. She gulped, then looked up. It had been like this once. And then, Wiskeria had left, gone so far she’d hoped she’d never see Belavierr again. But that had been running away. This—she wished she’d done this.

“Mother. Let me say this so you understand it. I…”

She searched for words. Belavierr waited, patiently, standing impassively as her horse stood by the tree. And the night shone down on the two. Wiskeria sighed. She took her hat off and was a girl again, standing before her mother.

“It was good to be your daughter growing up. When we lived in the village, before Kaliv, I thought you were the most wonderful mother ever. I wanted to be like you. I thought the other [Witches] who told me how grand and terrible you could be all admired you, even if you could be scary. I saw the darkness in your craft, but also the good. You helped people. And yes, you were…distant. You could be thoughtless or unkind. But I was happy to be your daughter.”

Belavierr tilted her head sideways. Her hat moved with her, and Wiskeria couldn’t help but smile at the uncomprehending look on her face. She went on.

“But, Mother. One day, I saw you for what you were. When you made a daughter for a father out of thread. Something—horrible. Something with no life that looked like what he wanted. And I realized. I asked, and I found out what made you—you. The dead you took life from over the years. The deals you made for your power. The dead, Mother. The dead you left hanging because they opposed you! The threats you made! The people you killed! How old are you?”

“I do not recall, Daughter.”

“That’s not the point!”

Wiskeria stamped her foot and screamed. The night took the scream. Belavierr looked down at her, and the horse shook its head.

“Then what is the point, Daughter? You know what I am. Sometimes, I believe I do not know what you are. But you are my daughter and I, your mother. Is that not enough?”

Wiskeria put her hand over her heart. She closed her eyes. When she looked up, her eyes were clear. It still hurt to say. More than any words. But she said them.

“No, Mother. I wish it could be. But it’s not. Because what I never told you when I saw what you are is this: I hate it. And Mother, I hate you.”

The glowing gaze widened. The wind died. All things paused. There was only Wiskeria and Belavierr. And the [Witch] looked up at the [Witch]. Her words continued.

“I hate you, Mother. I hate what you do. And because you will not change, because what you do sickens me to my core, because I cannot ignore what you do and what you have done, I hate you.”

Belavierr stood stock-still. She didn’t move. But her eyes were wide, wider than Wiskeria could ever remember. And she looked—Wiskeria would have rejoiced if it didn’t hurt. She turned away.

“I’m sorry. But I hate that I’m your daughter. And if I could stop you, I would. If I can, I will.”

She reached for her side as she stumbled away back towards the quiet village far from the hill. And she turned back with wand in hand. Wiskeria’s hand shook as she pointed it at Belavierr. But that was all. She couldn’t, so she lowered it and turned away. She walked, then ran away. Leaving her mother standing on the hill.

If Wiskeria had looked back, she would have seen no horse. Nothing save for her mother standing stock-still. Staring at her back. As still as a statue. But there was nothing blank, nothing timeless about Belavierr’s stare. She watched her daughter disappear. Then Belavierr blinked.

“What?”

After a moment, she touched herself, two fingers on one hand resting on her cheek. Belavierr’s voice was…hesitant.

“Me?”





Day 61 – Ryoka



Ryoka had no idea how everyone else had fared last night. She herself had been up far, far later than she would have liked trying to figure out whether what had happened to Rehanna was…but when she woke up, she felt a certain schadenfreude in seeing that Wiskeria looked as tired as she did.

Everyone else was more rested, purely by virtue of being so tired that they’d slept like rocks. And that had the secondary effect of giving them the time and energy to process Rehanna’s deal with Belavierr. The result? When Ryoka, Charlay, Durene, and Wiskeria went into Riverfarm, they found the mood in the town was distinctly changed.

Towards the [Witches]. No one had forgotten two days ago, of course. But now—people were visiting Rehanna. They were talking, not just numbly shocked. And they had heard Laken’s pronouncement, seen Belavierr’s uncaring face. You could find that unsettling—or you could hate the impassiveness.

That is who she is. Eloise’s words were another double-edged sword. Belavierr’s actions reflected on the others as well. If that was whom she was, what were the other [Witches]? They all occupied their own bubbles of space that day. Even Eloise; few people stopped to have tea with her, and then only quickly, furtively.

You could feel it in the air. A word unspoken. It wasn’t about classes, but a superstition across worlds. A word. Condemnation. Fear and loathing.

Witch.

However, what it changed was actually very little. The eight [Witches], even Wiskeria, went about their business as usual. Despite the lack of visitors, Eloise brewed her tea and chatted with anyone who wanted to talk. Hedag spoke to children and occasionally some parents, laughing when no one was about. Alevica went flying, ignoring the muttering. Mavika sat on a rooftop for an hour while her flock patrolled the fields, then she vanished. Califor and Nanette took their lessons—none of the [Witches] reacted to the hostile looks.

It was something Ryoka didn’t know about [Witches], but which she should have understood. A fundamental quality of their natures and class. When they were pushed, [Witches] did not give in or change. They doubled down.

And that went for more than just outside hostility. Because the most notable thing Ryoka saw that day was at midmorning. She saw Wiskeria striding down the street, peeved. But that was one thing. Seeing Belavierr following her daughter, matching Wiskeria’s two strides for every one of hers, made Ryoka choke on her lunch. Wiskeria glared up at her mother.

“I told you, Mother. I hate you. Stop bothering me!”

“Why?”

Belavierr followed Wiskeria, tall, silent but for that one word. Wiskeria rounded on her.

“I told you.”

“But my nature is who I am, Daughter.”

“Well then, maybe I hate your nature, Mother!”

Belavierr blinked. She was more immediate, more in this world than Ryoka had ever seen her. She seemed genuinely confused as she regarded her daughter. Ryoka was edging closer. Her and a number of people, including a crowd of Lancrel’s folk that Ryoka was vaguely uneasy about. But Belavierr only had eyes for Wiskeria.

“But—why? You did not hate it growing up.”

“Because I did not know who you were, Mother. As I said. Now leave me alone. I don’t want to talk with you!”

Wiskeria stormed off. Belavierr made to follow, but perhaps even she sensed how futile that would be because she stopped. Ryoka stared at her back. Belavierr seemed bothered. No—Ryoka turned to Wiskeria as the younger [Witch] hurried off. She would have given gold to know what Wiskeria had said to Belavierr!

Then Ryoka heard a voice.

“Excuse me! Miss [Witch]! We must have words!”

“Uh oh.”

Ryoka turned around. A familiar woman was striding forwards followed by at least two hundred of Lancrel’s people. It was a sizeable crowd, but how Councilwoman Beatica had thought it was a good idea to lead them against Belavierr was beyond Ryoka. Maybe she was just deliberately suppressing her sensible instincts. Either way, the woman came striding up just as Belavierr was watching Wiskeria’s back.

Normally, Ryoka expected Belavierr to walk off without another word. But as Ryoka had noticed, Belavierr was in the world of reality. Her head turned as Councilwoman Beatica snapped at her.

“Your behavior has been unacceptable! You have assaulted one of Riverfarm’s citizens! For this, you must issue an apology and forthwith cancel the mag—”

Beatica got that far when her tongue gave up in her head. Ryoka, who’d been looking around to find Beniar, Prost, Rie, or Durene, froze. Her head turned back to Belavierr. Because something was different about the [Witch].

An intensity. A shift in her posture. Her gaze swept across the crowd, and the angry people from Lancrel froze. Ryoka felt her stomach drop. Because there was no blank stare. The glowing eyes had force behind them. It was simple but terrifying when Ryoka realized the reason behind it.

Belavierr was angry.

No. Vexed. It wasn’t true anger. Ryoka couldn’t even imagine what that would be. But vexation—annoyance? Yes. Belavierr’s eyes, immortal, magical, and ageless, still held that familiar emotion. And Ryoka, the mob, and Charlay, who’d trotted over to see what was happening, all paused.

Unfortunately, Beatica wasn’t able to back out and save face so easily. Her mouth dried up, and she backed up. But her plan—which might have been hurling insults at Belavierr while being safely ignored—was suddenly derailed. All she could do was plough ahead.

“Miss Belavierr. I said that your—your behavior has been unacceptable. We, the citizens of Lancrel, are censuring you. You—you must issue a formal apology. Or else we will find you…”

She trailed off. Belavierr was staring at Beatica. And she was seeming more annoyed with each word. She peered at the crowd behind Beatica. Their anger turned quickly into a terror that made them still, rather than flee in fear.

“No.”

“I warn you—”

Beatica’s high-pitched voice broke off in a small scream as Belavierr lifted a hand. The [Witch] crooked a finger. Then she turned and strode off. Ryoka, who’d ducked along with Charlay at the gesture, breathed a sigh of relief. She straightened, and Beatica, looking pale and relieved, stood taller. She glanced around, then turned to give a speech as Ryoka prepared to run after Belavierr.

At that moment, every stitch in a three hundred foot radius suddenly unraveled. It was abrupt, and so fast that all the clothes just dropped off the crowd, Ryoka, and Charlay. Bits of fabric fell to the ground in its component parts as the stitching neatly fell into spools of thread as well. Ryoka blinked as her clothes fell off her body. It was actually sort of nice for a moment; the day was sunny, and the skin could breathe in the mild wind that followed her about. Then her eyes went wide, and everyone processed what had happened.

“Dead gods!”

“What the f—”

“My clothes!”

It was probably telling what the first action of each person was. Whether they covered themselves, gawked—and who they gawked at and where—or immediately tried to show off, like one muscular [Blacksmith]—it was all pandemonium.

Ryoka, for her part, glanced around just to make sure everyone was similarly undressed as she grabbed at her clothes and tried to cover the essentials. Charlay wailed as she grabbed at her shirt. Then her belt! Even it had fallen to pieces!

“Don’t look at me! I’m naked!”

The Centauress wailed as she raced off, clutching what remained of her shirt to her chest. Ryoka stared after her.

“You’re naked? What about me?”

She screamed, but Charlay was already running. The crowd was in chaos. People were bending over to pick up clothes on the street, then realizing that was a very exposed situation. There were red faces, tears—Ryoka saw Councilwoman Beatica running into the nearest house. Ryoka looked around, then realized something.

“Oh. Bag of holding.”

She pulled out a change of clothes and breathed a sigh of relief. Whatever Belavierr had done, it hadn’t hit the bag of holding or the stitches in the magical bag itself. That was a relief. Ryoka hopped into some pants, forgoing underwear, tossed on a shirt, and then ran like hell as more people came to see what was happening and stare. She was laughing. Right up until she made her mistake.



—–



Belavierr was standing in the same spot where Ryoka had visited the picnicking [Witches] a few days ago. Right in front of the tree where she’d been resting, close to the river. Only, she was standing. And she seemed annoyed. Her back was also turned, so Ryoka was too hesitant to walk up and tap Belavierr on the shoulder. She elected to call out instead.

“Um—excuse me!”

The figure was silent. Tall. Her shadows seemed too long. When she turned her head, the orange eyes glowed beneath the brim of her hat. Belavierr’s voice was cold.

“I do not wish to speak to you.”

Ryoka halted, her bare feet in the grass. She felt a leap of apprehension, but Belavierr was gazing at her. Talking to her. So she smiled. She had met immortals after all, befriended a Vampire. She had to try.

“I understand that. And I beg your pardon, Witch Belavierr. But I’d like to speak to you. You might remember—”

“Leave me.”

The words made Ryoka stumble over hers. She tried again, more desperate.

“I know Wiskeria. And I can talk to her. I know you two had an argument. I asked Wiskeria about it. She’s angry at you. And I think I can—”

“Now.”

Belavierr’s eyes were very bright. Ryoka took a step back. But then she gritted her teeth. She had bargained with a Dragon. She studied Belavierr. Try. If she didn’t respect Ryoka, acknowledge her, there was nothing Ryoka could do.

“Witch Belavierr, I can help. Listen, about Wiskeria not liking you—”

Belavierr moved. Ryoka blinked. She tried to continue, say something. But her lips were glued together. She looked down, but she couldn’t feel anything. Then she felt pain. And she raised her fingers to her mouth and felt something thin and hard.

Stitches.

“—!”

The scream was muffled. Ryoka’s lips were sewn so tightly together that she couldn’t even move them. And the pain—it had been so fast—but Belavierr was standing in front of Ryoka. In one hand, she held a bloody needle.

She’d sewn Ryoka’s lips shut.

Ryoka tried to scream again. The needle had gone through her lips! It had been so fast—but now she felt the pain and gathering blood from the places where the needle had pierced her skin. She stumbled back, clawing frantically at her mouth, then her belt.

Blood was dripping into her mouth from the perforations. And the thread—Ryoka desperately sawed at it with a knife. It didn’t break. Not even when she cut hard.

Belavierr watched it all impassively. Ryoka was breathing desperately through her nose. Her eyes were wide, her mouth filling with blood. She tried to open her mouth a crack, and the thread pulled at the holes in her lips. She screamed again, muffled.

The [Witch] bent. She met Ryoka’s eyes. The City Runner stared up at her. Belavierr’s whisper echoed.

“Leave me.”

Ryoka ran.



—–



The coven of three [Witches] was Alevica, Mavika, and Wiskeria. They were cheering up Wiskeria. Or just entertaining her presence. Either way, they were first to see Ryoka running towards them. Blood was trickling from Ryoka’s mouth. The red thread—even Mavika paused.

“Dead gods! What happened, Ryoka—”

Wiskeria caught herself as she shot up. She stared at Ryoka, then cursed.

“Belavierr.”

“Wow.”

Alevica blinked. Mavika stared at Ryoka as the Runner frantically gestured at her face. The [Witch] peered at the red stitches. The bloody holes. She nodded to herself.

“You must have truly angered her. She’s put a small working on the thread. You won’t be able to cut it without a magical blade. A decent one. It is not my craft. A pity; you should not have scorned Belavierr’s wrath.”

“Mavika!”

Wiskeria snapped at the other [Witch].

“I’ll find my mother and have her undo it. Just wait—”

“What? Now? She’s peeved at you already, Wis. And Ryoka must have annoyed her. She might sew Griffin’s eyes shut if you word it wrong. Here. Don’t bother. I’ll do it.”

Alevica stood up, yawning and stretching. She walked over to Ryoka. The City Runner was waving her hands and making small sounds. Alevica saw why and winced.

“Ouch. Those are pulling your flesh. That has to hurt. Well, I can cut it. I think. Give me a second.”

She pulled a knife from her belt. Then she clenched her shortsword.

“Hm. Better steel in the knife. Alright. Here goes. Ryoka, don’t move or squirm. I might slice a lip off.”

So saying, she laid the knife on her arm. Ryoka watched, trying not to choke on the blood running from her wounds. She was half-mad with needing to open her mouth, the shock—but she still stiffened as Alevica chanted, her voice harsh but triumphant.

“Grudge, fester. Knife, cut. Anger, grow. Envy, grate. Slice sharper. Prick harder. Hate. And the honed edge—make.”

The knife didn’t move or flash or do anything else on her arm. But with each sentence, the edge seemed harder to find, thinner.

Sharper. But the chant was quick. Alevica plucked the knife from her arm and grinned at Wiskeria and Mavika. Wiskeria looked somewhat impressed. Mavika did not.

“A simple chant for a simple working.”

“And a simple task, Mavika. We don’t all need to write poetry in verse. Now, hold still, Ryoka.”

Alevica turned back to Ryoka. She raised the knife, and Ryoka froze. She felt the blade working at the tight thread, and Alevica cursed.

“This is enchanted! But that’s some thread—I have no leverage. Hold on—I think it’s giving—”

Alevica kept sawing away. Then she stared at her knife.

“Uh…hold on.”

She adjusted her angle, and Ryoka, who had tears in her eyes, made an articulate sound of pain. Alevica was pushing at the threads. It hurt! The Witch Runner cursed.

“It’s not—what’s going on? This could cut Mithril.”

“It isn’t, Alevica. I warned you, Ryoka.”

Wiskeria’s voice was too satisfied for Ryoka’s liking. Alevica swore.

“There’s no way she can make a thread I can’t cut! Even Oliyaya’s best charms I could—hold on. Little knife, little—”

She bent over the knife, then produced a flame and whetstone. Twice more, she tried to re-charm her knife to cut, and each time, it failed. In the end, Alevica hurled the knife down with an oath, and it went straight into the floor and vanished from sight.

“You have angered the Witch of Webs. But she seldom has such spite.”

Mavika observed, looking between Wiskeria and Ryoka. Wiskeria just sighed.

“She’s angry because of me. I can make her undo it.”

“That is not needed; this magic I shall undo. A favor from me, and a punishment to you. And you.”

Mavika replied. Alevica broke off from trying to fish her knife out from the hole in the floor.

“What? Think you can make a better knife than I?”

“I do not contest, Witch Alevica. Now watch. Griffin? Will you take my cure?”

Mavika hopped closer to Ryoka, and the desperate Wind Runner nodded. So, Mavika tapped her on the brow and produced something. A feather…and a piece of what looked like chewed up cardboard.

A huge feather, brown and dandruffy. Mavika stuck it onto Ryoka’s head and whispered.

“Griffin in name, Griffin thou art! Fierce of body, and fierce of heart! Fight pain with all your might!”

Another rhyming-charm. This one did something weird to Ryoka. She didn’t turn into a literal Griffin; she just felt—

Fiercer. Just like Mavika had said; suddenly, the pain was vexing, but not all-consuming. Ryoka sagged in relief. Mavika nodded in satisfaction as Ryoka gave her a thumbs up.

“Now, we come to it. Alevica, your knife.”

Alevica handed over the sharp knife, and Mavika held Ryoka’s mouth carefully. Ryoka waited for another sp—

Mavika sliced Ryoka’s mouth vertically, then made two more cuts, and one of the strings snapped out of the holes in Ryoka’s flesh, and the Crow Witch pulled the rest of the strings out.

It hurt. Not as bad as it could have, thanks to Mavika’s charm and Alevica’s sharp blade, but only Mavika’s hand like steel kept Ryoka’s face from jerking.

“Oooh! Dead gods!”

Even Alevica covered her face. Wiskeria just nodded.

“Yep, that’s what I would have done.”

My mouth! My mouth—Mavika pocketed the bloody string and then offered something. It turned out to be Ryoka’s own healing potion.

“Drink. The string I take as payment for my services. You did not even need a sharp knife, Witch Alevica.”

Healing potion spilled from Ryoka’s cut lips before they began to heal. Alevica was spluttering as Mavika strode away. Ryoka tried to focus.

I’ve had worse. I’ve had…

The Frost Faeries tormenting her? Things around a fire?

My lips just got sewn together then cut apart! This might have been one of the worst things in her entire life! And that included the leg smashing! Ryoka stood there, shaking, until Wiskeria spoke.

“So would you say, despite my mother’s magic, on the whole, it was a good thing for you, Ryoka?”

Her sardonic look would have gotten her punched if Ryoka could make a fist. Alevica strode back into the house, swearing.

“That damn Mavika. She’s—she’s—she’s almost as good as my mentor. Oliyaya will love that tale. Hey, Windy Girl. Oh, your lips aren’t messed up. Cool.”

She was twirling the knife she’d gotten back from Mavika. The Witch Runner clapped Ryoka on the shoulders.

“Don’t thank me. I’m only too happy to help a fellow Runner. And now you owe me a favor. Remember it, Ryoka. Because I’ll call it in.”

“What favor? You didn’t do anything.”

Alevica shrugged.

“But I tried. My magic doesn’t come free. Favor from me—you’re lucky Mavika didn’t ask for something. She just wanted to one-up me. Remind me not to cross her. Or Belavierr.”

With that, she left. Ryoka was speechless. In outrage, shock—when she turned to the last person left, Wiskeria, the [Witch] managed a bit of sympathy.

“Listen, I did warn you. I guess my mother is upset. She never does that normally; it’s a waste of good thread. What did you need to speak to my mother for? Why did you try without me?”

“I—thought I could get her to listen to me. I wanted to talk to her about you. Try to patch things up between you. Or convince her to help…I thought I could reason with her. I’ve done it before.”

Ryoka muttered, tasting more blood. She got a water flask and spat out bloody water. Wiskeria paused. She closed her eyes, then looked around. She began to pick up one of the regular kitchen knives in Alevica’s shared house, then sighed and tossed it down.

“What’s that for? I don’t have more thread in my face, do I?”

Ryoka needed a mirror. She saw her features were all correct—or so she thought—when Wiskeria flopped down in a chair across from her.

“No, I was going to stab you. But I suppose that would just add to the trouble Riverfarm’s facing. Say that again? And if I don’t like what I hear, I will break a knee.”

“What? What did I do?”

Wiskeria stared at Ryoka, expression hardening.

“Why are you so determined to force me and my mother to talk? What gives you the right to interfere in our lives? Say she’s an ambivalent person who makes fair deals again. Say it.”

Her hand was twitching for the knife. Part of Ryoka, the part that challenged Minotaurs to fistfights, wanted to say it. The rest of her dragged that part back, locked it in solitary confinement, and tried to answer Wiskeria honestly.

“I—look, I was wrong.”

“Thank you for saying that. Go on?”

Ryoka edged back an inch in her chair. Wiskeria inched forwards and put her hand around the knife.

She’s not really going to stab me or break a knee if she doesn’t like what she hears, right?

She’s a [General] and Belavierr’s daughter. And a [Witch].

Nothing would save Ryoka but honesty, so she blurted it out, turning red-faced with embarrassment.

“I—look. It’s not just me wanting to know right from wrong, okay? I just see you and Belavierr—and believe me, Belavierr is not the same—but it reminds me of my mother.”

Wiskeria’s arm relaxed. She stopped leaning forwards, unhooked one foot she’d snaked around Ryoka’s chair leg, and stared at Ryoka.

“…What?”

Ryoka turned red. This was almost a hundredth as bad as having your lips sewn together. But since she’d just had that happen—this was almost easy. Almost. She spoke, trying to say what she’d been trying not to say.

“Look…I don’t like my mom. You’ve never met her. Heck, no one—I mean, no one I know around here has ever met her.”

Because she’s in another world. Ryoka never talked about her family. It didn’t mean she didn’t think of them, and she did, especially now. She looked at Wiskeria.

“My mom—well, my parents are both wealthy. My dad’s a business tycoon—”

“What’s that?”

“Uh…a super [Merchant]. He’s into politics, too. Likes to put his thumb or a damn weight on the scales. He talks to slimeballs like Mayor Whatshisface and that Councilwoman Beatica. My parents are wealthy. My mom? He married her when he was abroad. She’s kind of a trophy wife, but she’s also rich in her own right.”

“Thank you for explaining. What does this have to do with me?”

Wiskeria seemed genuinely interested as she watched Ryoka’s face. She had her mother’s blankness, Ryoka realized. Ryoka had…well, she had a lot of things from her parents. Hair color, eyes.

Alcoholism she wasn’t sure about, but there was always time. Certainly other things. She lowered her head.

“Listen, my life story’s probably boring compared to yours. But the long and short of it is that my mother…sucks. It’s not all her fault. I realized that later. Part of it is just—well, if we talk about my dad, we’ll be here till fall. But the point is that she’s like Belavierr.”

Wiskeria raised her brows, and Ryoka clarified.

“She doesn’t get it. She doesn’t understand me. I hated her guts, of course, most of my life, but I’d try and help. Sometimes, I’d get in trouble for covering for her mistakes, and I just wished, sometimes, she could be—better. You know?”

Ryoka’s eyes stung unaccountably, and Wiskeria’s semi-hostile look softened. Ryoka shook her head.

“It’s stupid. But when I saw you and your mother—I sort of felt like there was the same thing. If I could meet my mother and make peace, even if we didn’t like each other—or better yet, change her? I guess I projected too much. I’m sorry.”

She hung her head. Belavierr was definitely not Ryoka’s mother. But now she said it out loud, she realized how much she’d projected onto Wiskeria. Her own hopes and regrets—and denial, probably. Certainly, Wiskeria adjusted her hat and sighed.

“You’re right. You’re completely wrong about my mother, and you stuck your nose into our business, and you had no right.”

Ryoka hunched her shoulders, and Wiskeria paused.

“…But you are right that we’re a bit alike in how we wish things were different. I just wish you’d led with that.”

The Wind Runner glanced up, and Wiskeria offered her a handkerchief.

“For your face. It’s covered with blood. Listen, Ryoka. My mother is purely dangerous. Don’t bother her. But—thank you. I guess I can respect that kind of attitude.”

“Thanks.”

Ryoka took the handkerchief, and after a second, Wiskeria sat back and smiled as if she’d thought of something funny. When Ryoka glanced at her quizzically, she spoke.

“Oh, nothing. I just thought you were only the second person who ever bothered my mother that much for my sake.”

Ryoka grinned, hiding her embarrassment. Then she saw Wiskeria’s eyes grow serious.

“Just be sure you don’t end up like Ostevien.”

“W-what happened to him?”

Wiskeria leaned forwards.

“That’s a long story. The end of it is ongoing. They call him the Griffin Prince of Kaliv. The Cursed Prince. The exile.”

Ryoka’s heart leapt. An actual—she leaned forwards.

“What’s the curse? Belavierr did it?”

This explained everything. Wiskeria exhaled and, with infinite regret, whispered in Ryoka’s ear.

“Simple. He will never die.”

She stared at Ryoka until the Wind Runner’s smile vanished. Then Ryoka got up in the dead silence, walked to the door—stared at Wiskeria—and left.



——



Ryoka was wandering around Riverfarm, trying to think, when she saw Nesor hurrying towards her, waving a bit of parchment.

“Miss Griffin! Miss Griffin! There’s a message for you! A [Fence]! He’s dead! It—”

“The [Fence]? In Filk?”

And Ryoka heard of the dead Ratwhisperer, his mouth and nose sewn shut. Her own mouth throbbed and burned. To her credit, even Alevica looked uneasy.

“Don’t let your [Opener] friend talk about Belavierr, Griffin. That’s a curse Belavierr’s used. And I don’t think many people could dodge that. Even if they’re [Mages].”

Ryoka agreed. She looked at Nesor and sent a swift reply.



Everything’s fine. She’s dangerous, but I think it’s safe for us. I’ll be here a bit longer. Don’t cross her, Fierre. And don’t worry about me. I have to do this. Thanks for the help.



A lie. Because Ryoka wasn’t fine. That night, she kept opening her mouth, running her teeth along her healed lips. Shuddering. And she stayed away from Riverfarm, using Durene’s cottage to sleep. Refused to go near the village. Or the [Witch] with the glowing eyes and wide-brimmed hat. If she hadn’t run—Ryoka’s dreams were filled with a man she’d never met, mouth and nose sewn shut. Staring into oblivion as blood ran down his throat. And Belavierr’s blank, impatient stare watching as he died.





Day 63 – Ryoka



For two days, Ryoka ducked at every passing person wearing clothes that were even remotely black. A pointed hat and she fled the other way. The worst part was that no one, not even Charlay, called her silly for doing that. In fact, everyone took the time to tell Ryoka how stupid she had been for crossing Belavierr.

They were right. Right and wrong. Because Belavierr might be—probably was—a monster. But one who obeyed her own laws. She was like the fae. Or Teriarch. A mix between him and Az’kerash, perhaps. So what anyone with sense would do was avoid her until Laken returned. Let him handle her and not provoke her wrath.

Yet Ryoka had never been accused of having sense. And the issue of the [Witches] was greater than just Belavierr. That was what Prost didn’t understand, or Rie, or anyone else. They had come to Riverfarm, this coven, to ask Laken to grant [Witches] sanctuary. And if Emperor Godart was anything like the Laken she remembered, Ryoka expected him to honor that vow.

The problem was whether it would be safe. Half of the [Witches] seemed fine. Califor, Eloise, Nanette, even Alevica could behave. But Mavika? Hedag? Belavierr? It was a quandary. And the only person who could solve it wasn’t Ryoka.

It was Wiskeria, Belavierr’s daughter. But the irony was that the daughter wanted nothing to do with her mother. She hated her mother. And—thanks to Ryoka—she had said it at last. That bothered Belavierr.

She followed Wiskeria until her daughter told her to leave her alone. Asked questions as Wiskeria shouted at her. Listened. Until that glacial face hardened and became angry. Frustrated. Uncomprehending.

“She hates Belavierr for who she is. But Belavierr won’t change her craft. It’s like watching two trees hit each other.”

Charlay summed up the conflict as Ryoka hid behind her on the third day after a one-sided shouting match. Wiskeria stormed off, and Charlay, Ryoka, and everyone who’d stopped to watch fled as well. Because Belavierr was angry. She stood in the street, her head bowed, gazing at Wiskeria’s back. And undone clothes were the least of what Ryoka feared from her now.

There was something else that was brewing in Riverfarm as a consequence of these fights. No—of Rehanna. The woman sometimes went outside, holding her baby. And that was a terrible sight, in daylight or at night. Belavierr’s encounter with Councilwoman Beatica had also caused trouble. The woman had shown more sense than Ryoka and refused to engage with Belavierr directly, but bad will towards Belavierr and [Witches] in general had spread across the village.

Into that confused tangle of events, a mother and a daughter’s war, and the hot days without a hint of rain that continued to roll on, the dark looks and trouble brewing, there was Hedag. Ryoka had paused from a day of trying to talk with Wiskeria and hiding from Belavierr as people trudged back from the fields.

No one was happy. It was hot, and the river that fed the village was now being used to partially irrigate the fields. But hand-watering still had to be done, and it was hot. The [Witches] had kept to themselves today, mercifully, and Eloise had even relegated her tea service in lieu of helping Califor teach Nanette how to make some bread that may or may not have been magical.

Mavika and Alevica were nowhere to be found as dusk settled, then night. Ryoka ate a meal with Durene and Charlay, on the lookout for Wiskeria and Belavierr. That’s when she saw her.

Hedag. The woman was sitting at a table, laughing, drinking, and eating with [Forewoman] Beycalt and a few other laborers. Completely at ease. She ignored the looks she was getting as she poured a generous drink from her flask into each cup. Despite the volume of the flask, she filled each polished wooden cup to the brim. Ryoka didn’t have to see the way Beycalt brightened or how the others lifted the cups to know it was alcohol.

“To your [Emperor], then! And a hard day’s work!”

Hedag laughed, and her voice boomed through the mess hall. She lifted the flask and drank with the others. Ryoka blinked. She glanced around.

“What’s Hedag been up to all day, Durene? Charlay?”

The Centauress shrugged. But Durene leaned over.

“Haven’t you seen her? She’s been helping build houses.”

“What, with magic?”

Ryoka turned back to Hedag. The woman’s plain brown hat and travel-worn clothing made her seem the most normal of all the [Witches]. She was a big woman, bigger than Beycalt, and she looked strong. And she had chopped off a man’s head with her axe. Yet here she was jovial, smiling. Durene shook her head.

“Nope. No magic at all. She just helped. She’s good with a hammer, and she knows how to put up a house.”

“Huh. Interesting.”

Ryoka watched Hedag drinking with the other villagers. She had an infectious laugh and an openness about her that was the exact opposite of what Ryoka was used to. She reminded the City Runner of Erin, actually. Only, an Erin of a different sort.

And yet, she was a [Witch]. No one had forgotten how she’d walked into Riverfarm and pronounced judgment. Many of the people stared and murmured, and few would drink with Hedag, despite the free liquor. If the [Witch] noticed—and she surely did—she paid no mind. In fact, she noticed more than Ryoka thought, because though she never turned her head, after the second round, she raised her voice.

“Share a drink with me, Runner-Girl?”

Ryoka jumped. Hedag turned and waved a hand. Ryoka felt a stab of embarrassment as everyone glanced over at her. But there was nothing for it. She stood up and walked over.

“I didn’t mean to stare.”

“Ah, what a kind lie. But you don’t fool me! Come, sit. And perhaps you won’t be as wary of Hedag as you are of my coven!”

Hedag’s slap nearly catapulted Ryoka into her seat. Ryoka blinked as the woman grabbed a cup from the table behind her. Someone had used the cup, but Hedag sloshed in a bunch of pungent…rum? Ryoka inhaled it. Certainly not just an ale or mead.

“That’s a hard worker’s drink there. Hard to get and expensive! For us at least. But a reward best used, not hoarded. Stand a round?”

Hedag grinned. Ryoka was surprised, but she wasn’t about to refuse. She raised the cup and downed half with the other drinkers. After some of the coughing and laughter, Ryoka lowered her cup.

“That burns! What is that, a magical flask?”

“This? Naught but a little trick. It’s wider than it seems. I don’t do grand magics, if that’s what you’re asking, Miss Ryoka. And if you’ve been wondering whether I’m a threat to your village, have no fear. A Hedag is justice, not aught else. I don’t use my craft for myself like young Alevica, or in spite as Mavika does. Nor am I Belavierr. But I am a [Witch].”

Hedag casually drank from her flask again, her eyes twinkling beneath her hat. Ryoka studied her, embarrassed.

“I’m sure you’re not. I’ve only—”

“Been asking? And talking with your [Emperor], haven’t you? What a slow lad! I thought he’d be here days ago! Tell him to hurry up!”

Hedag laughed, ignoring the askance looks some of the other villagers were giving her. She spread her arms, sloshing some of her drink. She was actually drunk, Ryoka was sure of it! But the [Witch] wasn’t ashamed.

“What’s the point of holding a drink if there’s no fun in it, Runner-Girl? I work hard, I sweat, and then I drink and sleep! Occasionally, I eat, and I’ll own to a few other things. But I don’t want for anything else. I am a [Witch], but I’ll work for coin when my craft doesn’t call.”

“But what is your craft? Justice?”

Ryoka tried to press Hedag. But the [Witch] only smiled and filled Ryoka’s cup.

“It calls me sometimes often. Sometimes once a month or even a year. And what it is is justice.”

Beyond that, she wouldn’t say. And Ryoka realized after the third cup that Hedag was just as crafty as Eloise in her way. She’d bought goodwill with her strong drink. And she was content to just let people drink and insult each other and…be people, unlike Eloise. She was amid them, challenging Beycalt to an arm-wrestling competition or laughing uproariously at a bawdy joke. But what did she do?

Ryoka had to excuse herself from the table to sit back and think. She was sure she was holding her liquor well—until Charlay pointed out Ryoka was about to fall out of her chair. The young woman sat up and tried to think.

She had seen Mavika selling crow’s feather charms to a few brave people. Eloise sold her tea. Alevica was a Runner, and Califor seemed content to teach Nanette. Belavierr and Wiskeria were their own thing.

But Hedag had been the real mystery. Day after day, she’d been talking with children. Letting them show her a ball or a doll, playing with them by pulling up a stone so they could scream at the bugs, or giving one a ride on her shoulders. The parents had been uneasy, but Hedag had just been kind. Then she’d stopped and begun helping out in the village.

“Why? Is she collecting fun? Goodwill, like Eloise?”

Ryoka muttered as she inspected Hedag with one bleary eye. Charlay shrugged.

“I have no idea. But she’s fun to be around.”

That was true. Hedag’s laugh filled the hall into the night. And she drank like an alcoholic and laughed without guile. Not once did Ryoka see anything ‘witchy’ about her.

Because there wasn’t. She was looking in the wrong place, at the wrong person. It wasn’t Hedag Ryoka should have been watching. So she only saw the end of it when the fire in the mess hall was low and most had taken to their beds. Hedag sat, smiling, pleasantly drunk, at her table, occasionally belching.

She was waiting. That night, her craft did call. It was no large thing. Rather, it was a young boy Ryoka had never met. She had never seen him. To her, he was a face, one of Riverfarm’s many families displaced. She couldn’t have seen anything unique about him. Her eyes were on the [Witches]. She did not know the young boy, who had shown a leather ball to Hedag and heard her promise. Ryoka did not even know his name. His story.

But here it was. The young boy had had a fulfilling day. He’d been corralled into a work force of boys all bursting with energy around his age, too young to take up a task that involved anything bladed, but too old to stay with the young children. He’d been sent, under the eye of a pair of [Hunters], to the forest near Riverfarm to gather some edibles.

Of course, the boy had played with his friends, but they’d all come back with some edibles or bits of bark and kindling to appease Prost and the supervisor in charge of them. But responsibility wasn’t something the boy had a grasp of yet. He was a city’s child, and he’d laughed at the diligent villager-children who refused to so much as try and catch a rabbit barehanded and gathered most of the day.

And then he’d come back and eaten a hot meal, which he liked. He missed his home in Lancrel. Terribly. The fascination of a new village, the relief of fleeing the Goblins was worn off. Riverfarm was boring where Lancrel had been huge and exciting, a proper city. In his way, the young boy had been contemptuous of Riverfarm’s villagers.

The only exciting thing was the visitors. The Centauress, the strange-looking City Runner. And the [Witches]. They were terrifying and exciting to someone his age, and he’d tried following around the young [Witch] until the old one snapped at him. Or the Witch Runner until she’d conjured a swarm of stinging bugs and scared him and his friends off. The young boy had gotten into a fight twice with the villager boys and a girl named Chimmy. And he’d been told off and slapped hard for each.

Misery. Fun. Boredom and joy. That was his life in the day. But at night—on this night in particular, the young boy sat in his newly-made bed and listened. He shook, because he heard a man’s voice. Familiar, rough. And yes, drunk.

It was a story Ryoka didn’t know, but that she knew.

The young boy listened. He had a mother and father. She was often impatient with his father. The boy’s father had expectations and didn’t like being here in Riverfarm. The father was a [Jeweler] by class, and he didn’t take well to the work he had to do since he couldn’t pursue his class.

So he was impatient. Annoyed. And that night, drink provided by Councilwoman Beatica at the Lancrel gatherings, fueled a long-burning fire. An old problem. The boy listened as the voices murmured, then grew loud. And he was afraid.

Dark thoughts. A temper. Bitter words, perhaps over losing his home, his family moving here. Grievances at work. Councilwoman Beatica’s words. The lack of rain. [Witches].

The first shout made the young boy’s heart jump. He prayed he wouldn’t hear another. But he had no one to pray to, and he didn’t even know how to pray. It mattered not either way. He heard a quarrel. Another raised voice. And then a slap. A cry.

Heart racing. Hands clenching the sweaty sheets. The boy got up and searched his bed desperately. He found what few things he owned. A leather ball he’d won from a friend. A bit of quartz he’d tried to polish. Three copper coins. He grabbed the ball and squeezed it. But then he heard more fighting. And another cry.

Now he was standing. Shaking. But he knew what was going to happen. It was a pattern. Not the first time, either. The young boy stared at the light through the door. And he was afraid. He’d been out there before. Tried to block the man, his father. Fight back. Last time, he’d lost a tooth. He was afraid.

Because the wrath would turn towards him soon. Already, his mother was sobbing. The boy, desperate, wanted to hide under the bed. Or go out the window. But to where? This was home. So he shuddered.

And he remembered something. A smile. A huge face. A booming voice and a promise. A [Witch]’s promise. She’d sworn on her hat. And she had told him if, if he needed her, to call her name. And she would come. She’d touched the ball, and he’d seen no magic. But she had promised.

In that dark night, the boy had no one to turn to. His father was passing from drunk into a dark temper. Beyond just fury, in fact. The brooding, bitter rage that wouldn’t end in slaps or tears or even blood. So the boy hesitated. He grabbed the ball and clenched his fists. He had to be a man. A man wouldn’t let his mother cry out like that.

But he was small. Afraid. So the boy grabbed the ball. He hesitated and then raised his prized possession and cried out. His father heard and tore towards him. The boy heard the furious pounding on the door and hid under the bed. Praying without words. But there was no one in his house besides him, his father, and his mother. His neighbors were quiet, asleep or silent. There was no one to hear him.

Except the [Witch]. In the mess hall, nodding off, Ryoka saw Hedag’s silent form move. The hat, which had partially slipped off Hedag’s head, rose. And the [Witch], who had fallen asleep, looked up. There was no laughter. No smile.

Hedag was on her feet in a second. She ran. Ryoka jerked upright. She was quick, but Hedag was out of the doors, tables and chairs still tumbling aside as she charged outside. Ryoka stumbled after her, the alcohol in her veins disappearing. What? She hadn’t heard a thing!

The [Witch] was outside, head turning. She looked left down a street of houses with few lights flickering behind the shutters. Then she ran. Ryoka shouted.

“Hedag! What is it?”

The woman didn’t respond. She kept running, and Ryoka chased her. But Hedag was fast. She ran without form, holding her hat on her head, pounding down the dirt street. But she was still faster than Ryoka. She ran until she stopped. Ryoka nearly missed her. Hedag stormed up to a house with a faint light flickering behind the door. Ryoka heard a few sounds from inside, a raised voice, a pounding sound.

“What—”

Hedag’s fist struck the door. The [Witch] bellowed into the night. And her voice was like thunder.

“You inside! Touch not that child! Step away from that door!”

Ryoka heard an oath from inside, and then a muffled voice. Hedag’s fist slammed into the door.

“Step away, man. And leave him be. Open this door or I will open it myself!”

She roared the words, heedless of the doors opening, the people stirring. Ryoka stared. She did not know what was happening. But then she saw Hedag lower her shoulder and slam into the door.

The wood was solid. The frame was sturdy. It had been made by good [Builders] out of strong wood, and it was fresh. It held, but Ryoka heard the creak. Hedag didn’t stop. She backed up and struck the door again, hurling her entire weight against it. The door cracked.

“—off! This is my house!”

A man’s voice was audible now. He was shouting in a fury. And Ryoka heard a woman’s voice. She understood. But Hedag didn’t stop. She rammed the door a third time. Then she raised her foot, kicked, and the door broke. Ryoka heard an oath and exclamation. Hedag strode into the house, knocking the broken parts of the door aside.

“Step away from the child and woman.”

There was a shout. Ryoka saw a flicker of movement as she ran for the doorframe. She watched Hedag step back, move—the man was swinging at her. The [Witch] blocked the blow and struck back. Ryoka heard a cry—and then a thump. And then another one.

“Listen to me, you poor excuse for a man. You’ll never touch her or him again. Do you hear me?”

“Let go of me! I’m—”

Ryoka heard a slurred voice and then another blow, so loud her own teeth clenched at it. A cry of pain. Hedag sounded like thunder still, rolling and distant.

“Never again. This is a lesson. So pay heed: never again.”

A giant wearing a hat stood in the kitchen. Tall, taller than the mortal man she held. She raised her hand, and the man screamed. Ryoka saw a woman grabbing Hedag, pleading. A boy—perhaps eleven—standing and watching, wide-eyed. Watching his father’s pain. Ryoka grabbed at Hedag’s arm as the woman raised it. And the backhand that struck Ryoka sent her stumbling into a wall.

“Don’t interfere, Runner-Girl. Nor you, wife. This is my craft. My business. And this man will not touch you or his son so again. Or the next time I return, I will break his bones. And he will remember it. A Hedag’s promise is never broken. So remember this. What you were going to do to a boy less than half your size. Remember this.”

Ryoka stumbled upright. She saw Hedag standing over the man. There was a terrible light in her eyes that scared Ryoka. Hedag moved, grabbing the father as he tried to run. And the next blow doubled him over.

“Hedag! That’s enough!”

Ryoka called out. But the [Witch] did not stop. The father tore away from her with animal strength and ran out the door. Hedag caught him in the street.

A crowd had gathered. Most in their night clothes. They stared at Hedag as she caught him and delivered another blow. The father gasped.

“Help—”

And he was struck again. He made a wild sound, and that moved the crowd. Some of them stepped forwards, but stopped when Hedag looked at them.

“Here now! What’s he done? You have no right to attack a man in his house—”

“Silence.”

Hedag barked the word. It stopped Ryoka behind her. The crowd. Prost, approaching with Beniar. Hedag glanced around, and the [Witch]’s eyes were wide under her hat. She spoke, her words tearing the illusion of the peaceful night apart.

“I am Hedag! And I am teaching a man who would beat his wife and child a lesson. He will suffer for it. He will not die of it. But he will suffer. And no one will stop me. I am Hedag, and this is my right. This is justice. Will any woman or man gainsay it?”

She stood, holding the whimpering man in a grip of steel. The crowd protested. But it was at Prost the Hedag was looking. The [Witch]’s eyes met his. And the [Steward] stopped. He gazed at Hedag.

“Hedag the [Executioner]. Do you say this is just?”

“Just?”

The exclamation came from a dozen voices, outraged. But Hedag just nodded. She glanced around. The outraged people hesitated.

“Should I show you the wife’s bruises? The cuts? Or should I show you the way he beat her? Should I reveal his sins? I will, if you wish it, and you will see what sort of man you call neighbor and friend.”

No one spoke at that. Hedag’s eyes blazed as she lifted the man. He made a sound between terror and pain.

“I don’t need to. And better left, those sins are. Each one has their own. But this one I do not stand. Come, you gathered folk. If you didn’t know what a Hedag’s justice was, you know now. It is this. No man or woman will beat a child. No crime will be done that is not punished. And the punishment is this.”

She raised a hand and struck the man across the face. Ryoka saw a spray of blood and heard a mortal groan. It might have come from Ryoka. Hedag dropped the man. He was alive. But the suffering—she stood over him, and the crowd flinched from her gaze. Hedag continued calmly, her voice ringing in the night.

“Time was, a village wouldn’t sit by to see such things done. When worst came to worst, they’d gather. Go in and see justice done themselves. But they say civilization and progress put an end to those times. Now people wait and pretend not to see bruises or a blackened eye. Tears or torment. But Hedag sees. And wheresoever Hedag walks, she carries the old ways right here.”

She touched her chest and hat. The [Witch] looked around. And Ryoka understood. It wasn’t a story she knew. But it was a universal story. Hedag had seen it a thousand, ten thousand, a hundred thousand times.

She ignored the protests. She left the man where he lay. Her lesson was done. And it wasn’t him she’d ever cared about. It was the young boy in tears Hedag walked to. The [Witch] was not guilty or remorseful, and she grabbed him where he might have struck at her and talked.

“It was a harsh thing, young lad. But better your father learned it. And it was bravery to call me. If you ever need help, call my name. And listen, because I tell you this plain: your father was wrong. The poorest of people beat their kin, let alone a child. And also know this. You will be safe. I swear by my hat on it.”

That was all. Prost stood over the man, and the city folk saw what the oldest justice was. What a Hedag was. [Executioner], yes. But also judge. Protector. Some shouted it was not right. Or just. But Ryoka looked at the wife, who was bleeding and bruised. And then at the man Hedag had left on the ground.

This was Hedag’s craft. She talked to the boy. And he hit her, then cried, and he listened as she held him and told him it was going to be alright. No one was asking him to grow up yet. But he’d been a man tonight. And—Ryoka saw—he was years and centuries older than the boy he’d been yesterday. Then Hedag talked to the wife, and the woman was just as conflicted.

That was what Hedag took. That was what she offered. As she left the house, Ryoka saw hundreds of years on her. Men. Women. Children. All of whom saw and heard her promise.

“Call my name. And I will be there.”

That was this [Witch]’s craft. She took gratitude, pure and simple. Simple gratitude. Innocence lost. Pain and fear and regret too, though. But part of it was gratitude. For being there.

And yet, what a cruel justice. Ryoka stared at the man. He wasn’t broken. But he was bloody. No one had healed him with a potion. Even if they did, he would feel the blows she’d dealt him. He would remember. Ryoka stared at the man as he made faint sounds. And then she went after Hedag.

The [Witch] sat alone, calmly drinking in the mess hall. She glanced up as Ryoka hesitated behind her.

“A Hedag has eyes in the back of her head, Ryoka-Girl. Literally. It’s a Skill, not magic. Useful, too. Sit.”

Slowly, Ryoka did. Hedag gazed at her. Ryoka hesitated. Then she pointed towards the door, the commotion growing. Another night of peace turned to unrest. But this one of a different kind.

Justice? The City Runner spoke, meeting Hedag’s gaze.

“You know they’ll turn on you. That husband you beat down. He’ll do it again as soon as you’re gone, if his wife doesn’t divorce him. Even if she does. And he has friends. They could come after you.”

The [Witch] laughed. It was coarse, almost mocking. But then gentle. She tipped the flask up, and it was empty. She sighed and tossed it on the table.

“Of course I know. I’ve been doing this for decades, Runner-Girl. But what’s the better way? To stand here and listen to a big, strong fellow beat his wife bloody? Is that just? While I’m here, folks will think twice about doing what he just did. And by the time I leave, he will know better than to touch a child. Because I will only leave when I am certain he will not. Elsewise, I will come back again and again. And every village hereabouts will know the same. That’s my craft. What do you think of it?”

Ryoka paused.

“I—I think it’s—you didn’t have to beat that man so badly.”

The [Witch]’s eyes glinted.

“Wrong. I did.”

“You could have stopped him.”

“And what would that do, Miss City Runner? Would that have stopped him from trying again? Would he think twice if I’d have paddled his rear and given him naught but a warning? No. Now, he will think many times.”

The young woman saw the logic. But she shook her head.

“You just made him angrier. Violence begets violence. He’ll take it out on the kid if he can.”

“And if he does, I will break his arm.”

“But that won’t change—”

Hedag’s fist slammed on the table.

“Change? It won’t change him. But who said I must be the one to change him? I will stop him, and stop him cold! My craft is not to coddle, Ryoka Griffin. It is not to show mercy to those who do wrong. If that man strikes a child, I strike him. If he kills a neighbor, I will judge him. And if a man or woman commits a crime as warrants it, I fetch my axe. That is justice. It is my craft. Not change.”

Ryoka paused. She studied Hedag. The woman had abandoned her first flask. She was rummaging around. And she pulled out a second flask and began drinking from it.

“So that’s a Hedag.”

“That is my name. My purpose. There have been Hedags before me. And perhaps there will be some after. But perhaps I am the last. I think every Hedag has always said that, though.”

The [Witch] drank. Ryoka hesitated.

“I understand. You’re the law in far-off villages. That’s what Prost said. A Hedag. A wandering [Executioner] and…but what gives you the right? If you weren’t as principled as you were—”

“What? You mean, if I wasn’t as ‘principled’ I’d do what? Ignore a child’s cry? Punish a man harder than I ought to? Say, ask for those who might pay me and protect only them?”

Hedag’s eyes flashed. Ryoka nodded.

“Yes.”

She waited. Hedag gulped down her mouthful, then lowered the flask. She reached out and grabbed Ryoka’s shoulder before the young woman could dodge. Hedag’s grip was steel. Her voice a rumble.

“In that case, I would be a monster. Some call me that anyways. But I carry my justice here. And here. And in my axe.”

She tapped her hat and heart and then let go of Ryoka. The young woman felt at her shoulder.

“I understand that, Hedag. But you still went into that man’s house and beat him. If—Riverfarm has laws. The boy could have called for help. The man could have been locked up. We have laws for a reason. They prohibit abuse. Prost would, if he’d been there. Why not trust him?”

She didn’t know why she was arguing. But she had to, to understand. Hedag snorted. She poured herself a third drink from a third flask. It was water. She gulped it down, looking at Ryoka. Shaking her head.

“You speak of the law as if it were some grand thing, Runner-Girl. But to me, the law is a man or woman with a stick or sword. They wield it, and if you cross them wrong, they beat you. In cities, it’s a pack of folk. Humans, Drakes, never mind if an [Emperor] lays down the law or a [Mayor]. It’s all the same. What’s so different with what I do? In your cities, the law is a uniform and a book. Out here, it is one woman. And she calls herself Hedag.”

“But we have law in Riverfarm. That man—”

“Would be punished after. If his neighbors had the heart to stop him or call out. Or if your [Steward] saw the woman’s bruises. Or heard of the boy’s broken arm. But that would be after, Miss Griffin. You say the law protects. But that is not what I hear of your cities.”

Hedag tossed down the water.

“Your [Guards] patrol the streets. [Watchmen] man your walls. And you say if there is crime, there will be punishment. But where is the law on a dark night when a man has been drinking? Where is the law when the girl hides under the bed and the father stumbles in, full of wrath? The law waits. But if that girl calls my name, I am there.”

She stared at Ryoka with such a piercing look that Ryoka had trouble meeting it. But then Ryoka looked up.

“In my…home, we have a system. If a child is in trouble, she can call. And our law will save her.”

“And if she is too bruised to speak? Too terrified to call? Or perhaps she just loves the father when he doesn’t hit her. What then?”

“We…have people who investigate. Or a neighbor can call. Anyone who sees it.”

“And if they do not see? Or they do not look?”

Ryoka didn’t reply. No system was perfect. Hedag nodded.

“That is better. Better than most villages and cities have. But, Ryoka-Girl, it is not enough. Because your system waits. I do not wait. I am Hedag, and I have been that girl. My craft made me a [Witch]. So where I go, I do not just wait. I go to villages, large and small. Far and wide. And I look at every child, every wife and husband. I stare into their faces. And I bring my justice. That is my purpose. That is what I can offer your [Emperor]. That is what he must accept. What say you?”

She watched the City Runner, and Hedag smelled of alcohol and sweat. Blood and dirt. And she was just a woman with a pointed hat. A drunk. A laugh louder than reality. And sometimes, a giant in the night. Someone who could hear the voices no one else could. Ryoka gazed back at her.

“I won’t try to stop you again. I just wish you didn’t have to exist.”

The [Witch] stared at Ryoka, and then she laughed. She slapped the table and howled with laughter. Ryoka listened, waiting, for minutes until Hedag had stopped. Then the woman pulled herself up, adjusted her hat, and grinned.

“I cannot argue with that. Nor can I say I’m perfect, Miss Griffin-Girl. After all, there have been poor Hedags. And I will not be here forever. I am no Belavierr. Someday, I will batter down a door and find a knife in my gut. Or a few folk will gather around to end me. I know that. But this is my craft. And Riverfarm has need of me. It is the biggest place I’ve had to ply my craft yet. I only hope I’ve the strength to do it.”

She poured herself another drink and raised it. Ryoka watched Hedag drink. Content. Tired. So this was what she was. And she thought of all the other [Witches]. Ryoka realized she understood Hedag the most, because she was simplest.

So Ryoka got up. Hedag watched her calmly. Ryoka hesitated. And then she bowed to the [Witch] and heard her laugh. She bowed and wished there were a thousand Hedags. A million, the world over, dispensing their flawed justice. Or none at all.

The old ways.





Day 64 – Wiskeria



“Call it what you will. But it is the old justice. And I have granted Hedag her right. It is old. Older than cities. Until His Majesty returns, she is free to enact her justice. No man died today. And no child was beaten. His Majesty has been told of it, and he will rule on it as well as Belavierr when he returns. But I say it is justice.”

That was all Prost said to Beatica. For once, the Councilwoman’s indignation and protests fell on deaf ears. Because it was a balance. If Belavierr was one thing, Hedag was another. You could protest she was a law unto herself. Because she was. You could worry about corruption or bias, but the [Witch] had the support from every side. From children and adults who had grown up wishing for a Hedag. For those who cried out.

The coven could be proud of her. They might be different in nature, but Ryoka spotted Eloise helping patch a hole in Hedag’s clothing the next day, and Califor herself nodded to Hedag, who smiled at her as they sat together. Nanette was in shy awe.

Mavika wasn’t as impressed. She gave Hedag the same look, as if Hedag had brewed a cup of tea. It was part and parcel to her. And Alevica wasn’t as moved either as she explained to Ryoka.

“Hedag’s a legend, yes, yes. She goes around beating evil parents and killing murderers. She’s not my kind of [Witch]. I get along with her because she’s free with alcohol. I don’t kiss her shoes like you do, Ryoka.”

The City Runner glared at Alevica. It was custom, now, for Ryoka to try to have a lunch with any [Witches] willing to suffer her. Today, Wiskeria had cooled down enough to have a civil conversation with Ryoka. But they were still at odds. Ryoka regretted how she’d brought up Belavierr to Wiskeria, but she had hope that Hedag’s moment had given them an opportunity to mend the gap. But Wiskeria didn’t seem as impressed as Ryoka either.

“I have to agree with Alevica, Ryoka. Hedag’s practicing her craft. It’s not as noble as you think. She does it because she needs the power she derives from it.”

“But she uses that to help people. Children!”

Wiskeria shrugged.

“And helping children is her selfish choice. Don’t let’s talk about morality or I’ll stab you. I told you, [Witches] are inherently selfish. Good [Witches] obey the law, or they make them, like Hedag. But she could just as easily be called a bad [Witch] because she imposes her craft on people.”

“Like me. We’re not so different, Hedag and I. The only difference is that I only bother [Bandits] with my evil craft, and people who annoy me. Hedag’s a tyrant in a hat.”

Alevica winked at Ryoka. The young Asian woman didn’t wink back.

“I disagree. I understand she’s flawed, but what she does is…”

Ryoka grasped for words. It spoke to her. It wasn’t acceptable, not in the society where she’d grown up. Hedag would be jailed in a moment on Earth. But it was what should be right.

That was how Ryoka felt, even if she couldn’t articulate it. Wiskeria and Alevica exchanged a glance. The Witch Runner rolled her eyes.

“Well, looks like Hedag’s got another follower. I can’t fault her for being popular. Although, you know she has a bigger bounty than mine.”

“Really?”

Ryoka looked up. Alevica grinned as she summoned her broomstick.

“Of course. Do you think villages are happy to see her? She’s not just some amazing crusader who stops wife-beaters, Ryoka. She’s left dead in the villages she passes. People who won’t change. Or who committed old crimes. She’s an [Executioner]. She’s got a bounty. Only about three hundred gold pieces. Poor folk can’t afford more. But think about that. Wipe the awe out of your eyes, Ryoka. If Hedag judges someone, she’ll kill them. Her law doesn’t bend. Belavierr’s not the only person who needs an [Emperor] to protect them. ‘Specially because Hedag’s slow. Me? I just fly off when I’m in trouble. Like so.”

Before Ryoka could reply, the [Witch] flew off, laughing merrily. Ryoka clenched her fists and turned to Wiskeria. The other [Witch] shrugged, a bit embarrassed.

“She’s right, you know, Ryoka. Hedag’s just a good [Witch] with good principles. But it’s—”

“Selfish. I get it.”

She was biased, Ryoka realized. But she couldn’t help it. Wiskeria eyed Ryoka’s expression, but she didn’t say anything. The two watched each other in silence. The Wind Runner cleared her throat.

“If you were willing to talk with Belavierr about—”

“Talk to her about what? Noelictus? She told me the entire story. She messed up, now she’s here.”

“You don’t want to ask her to make amends? Or—or—try to show more willingness to help Riverfarm?”

Wiskeria laughed shortly.

“Ryoka, from what I understand, the only ‘amends’ would be a crossbow bolt through her head. As for willingness—you saw Rehanna. She’s making deals to regain what she’s lost. I tried to forbid her from doing any more. That failed.”

“So you’re giving up on her?”

Wiskeria glanced under the table as if to see where to kick Ryoka.

“You’re implying I haven’t done this a hundred thousand times before. Don’t be dense. You said it was like your mother. How are you doing with her?”

“I—I just think maybe—”

“You think you can fix the problem in one go?”

Ryoka was saved from a kneecapping when a quavering, timid voice interrupted the staring contest.

“Please don’t fight. You two are friends, aren’t you?”

Both Ryoka and Wiskeria paused. They turned and saw a young [Witch]. They’d completely forgotten about Nanette. The youngest [Witch] looked wide-eyed at the young women. Abashed, both sat back. Miss Califor, who had been silently eating at the table, cleared her throat.

“Nanette.”

“Yes, Miss Califor?”

The [Witch] broke off eating a jam-covered biscuit that Eloise had made. Ryoka waited for a grain of wisdom from Miss Califor. The [Witch] paused, eying her and Wiskeria.

“You have jam on your face. Eat more carefully.”

Ryoka blinked. Nanette felt at her face and squeaked. Miss Califor produced a handkerchief and cleaned the jam off Nanette’s cheek.

Abashed, embarrassed—they’d forgotten Califor was there too—Ryoka and Wiskeria settled back. Ryoka thought Califor was another mystery. She’d saved Ryoka’s life and shown off some amazing magic, but she did everything sort of…low-key.

As if she were trying not to be impressive. Plus, she had no side work in Riverfarm, unlike even Belavierr. Califor was focused on Nanette almost to the point of exclusion. Teaching the girl everything from how to bake to casting spells was Califor’s obsession and craft, it seemed. And cleaning jam off Nanette’s face.

Even so, it wasn’t a completely harmonious relationship. Nanette was a growing girl, and sometimes it seemed like Califor’s mentorship chafed at her. On the other hand…Ryoka also saw that she respected Miss Califor and hung on the woman’s words. Nanette always had a truism of Califor’s to repeat. And she valued the older [Witch]’s approval more than anything else.

Sometimes, that could result in tears, especially today. It was an inadvertent slip up as Ryoka and Wiskeria tried to be civil.

“I guess I have been a bit annoying about Belavierr. I just don’t want to make a mistake. I feel like I have to address her. Or what’s the point of me being here?”

The City Runner muttered into her tea cup. Wiskeria hesitated and tugged her hat down.

“And—I could talk about my mother without threatening to injure you. It’s just that it’s hard, you understand? I’m sorry for snapping, Nanette.”

Miss Califor nodded approvingly. Nanette seemed happy to see the two making an effort. She smiled as she reached for another biscuit.

“I’m so glad. You two were ever so nice when we were on our walk. Miss Califor, Ryoka even healed my hand when I—”

Nanette’s face went pale. Miss Califor’s brows snapped together.

“When you what, Nanette? Did you injure yourself so badly you needed a healing potion? And you did not inform me?”

Ryoka felt like every teacher in the world was giving her the death glare. And that was nothing to the way Nanette stammered and tried to lie. Ineffectually, of course. Nanette was hiding under her hat as Califor prised the truth out, and Ryoka took a quick bathroom break, following Charlay’s example.

When Califor finally found out about Nanette slicing her palm open with the sickle by accident, she did just what Nanette feared. She took the sickle away. Ryoka returned to the table a few minutes later to find Nanette sobbing at the scolding she’d received. She wasn’t being punished beyond having the sickle confiscated, but Miss Califor’s disappointment was enough.

Wiskeria gave Ryoka a look that said she’d hex Ryoka into oblivion if the City Runner left her alone. So Ryoka sat back down as Miss Califor left to put the sickle in a safe place until Nanette was older and ‘knew how to respect it’.

They had to comfort Nanette, of course. Although, Ryoka had to point out that neither of them had actually told Califor (mainly because they’d forgotten to), and Nanette had let it slip. Wiskeria glared and kicked Ryoka under the table. Ryoka considered that she’d deserved that.

“Look, I know Califor can be harsh, Nanette, but she’s just looking out for you. It’s actually touching, really. Parents are strict because they love you. Generally. I mean, I know Califor’s just your teacher, but—”

Ryoka lamely attempted to comfort Nanette. The young [Witch] gulped as Wiskeria kicked Ryoka under the table again. Wiskeria nodded.

“Califor’s like every [Witch]’s mother. I know I wanted to make her proud of me. She taught me, Nanette. She’s not mad. In fact, she’s pretty caring of you, like I said.”

“I just don’t want to disappoint her.”

Nanette gulped, her eyes watery. Ryoka patted her on the back.

“You didn’t do that. Sickles are dangerous. One time, I nearly cut my hand to the bone when I was trying to cook by myself. And Durene—you should see her handle a knife!”

Nanette smiled, but she shook her head again as Wiskeria poured more of Eloise’s fine tea.

“I know. I know, but…I think I’m Miss Califor’s worst apprentice. I’m always causing her trouble, and she’s always having to help me or fix my mistakes. And she always does! I’m afraid she won’t keep me around.”

The two young women blinked and looked at each other. Ryoka hesitated.

“Nanette. Aren’t you her only apprentice?”

“Yes! And I’m the worst one! All the other [Witches] say I ought to be talented, but Califor says to ignore them. But wh-what if she decides someone else had better teach me? Like Witch Agratha? I like Witch Agratha, but Califor’s my teacher!”

“She’s not going to get rid of you for the sickle, Nanette.”

Wiskeria encouraged the girl, but Nanette was sobbing again.

“But she might! Everyone says Witch Califor doesn’t do grand things because she has to mind me! Some of them call her a coward!”

“Coward? She rode down three killers for me—”

“But she used to be so much more amazing, Miss Griffin! You know her stories, right, Witch Wiskeria?”

Nanette turned, and Ryoka gazed at Wiskeria. The [Witch] coughed, but to cheer Nanette up, she dutifully reported some of the tales.

“Oh, you know. That she’s tougher than nails. She could eat nails and teach an Ogre manners. Cross her and you’d better put the noose around your neck and jump. Once Califor decides to deal with you, you should deal with yourself just to save yourself the misery. She’s the most powerful [Witch] in generations…”

“Does that count Mavika or Belavierr?”

“Generations, I said.”

“Oh.”

“But she’s nice! She’s as good—better than any mother! I can prove it!”

Nanette banged her hands on the table. Ryoka and Wiskeria turned back to her, embarrassed again. Red-faced, the [Witch] girl took a deep breath. Then she looked abashed.

“This is a private story, alright? You mustn’t tell. But it’s about Miss Califor. She raised me since I was very small. In a cottage, in fact! I learned from her, and she was strict—but also kind. Back then, before she travelled and took me as her apprentice, she had a cottage by the High Passes. She did some work from there, and she had goats. I had a special one named Belfaus who watched over me.”

Wiskeria blinked as she mouthed at Ryoka over Nanette’s head as the girl went on. Califor owned goats? Ryoka was busy listening to Nanette. The girl closed her eyes solemnly.

“When I was small, I made a bad mistake. The worst I ever made. I don’t know how old I was. But one day, I was very bored, and Miss Califor had to see to someone who’d broken both legs in a fall. So…I left the cottage with Belfaus. I thought it would be fun to go exploring, but I forgot to tell Miss Califor. And I went far. So far I couldn’t find my way back.”

She looked up, and Nanette’s face was very pale. Wiskeria and Ryoka stopped and started paying more attention at the look on Nanette’s face.

“Miss Califor always said the land around the cottage was warded, so I shouldn’t wander too far without her. But that day I did. And Belfaus didn’t know better. I kept looking for the way back, but I’d forgotten it. And I went further and further—and I went into the High Passes. Because we lived right near the mountains, you see.”

Ryoka inhaled sharply. Wiskeria glanced at her. Nanette’s voice was lost.

“They said it was a pack of Gargoyles. One of them snatched Belfaus. And the other grabbed me. They—they must have been hungry, because one of them ate—ate Belfaus—but they took me to a cave. And—and I was in the cave for ever so long—and there were so many Gargoyles.”

“How many?”

“Many. Dozens.”

Nanette’s voice sank to a whisper. And her eyes were wide, her hands clasped together. Ryoka remembered the giant stone creatures, the monsters of the High Passes. The girl’s voice went on, conjuring a story until Ryoka could see the huge shapes, snapping, devouring Eater Goats and Belfaus, saving her for later.

“I thought I was going to die. Because even Gold-rank teams won’t enter the High Passes. And there were so many Gargoyles. But I called out. I begged Miss Califor to find me. Save me. And she did.”

Children were poor storytellers. Ryoka and Wiskeria stared at Nanette. Ryoka blinked.

“Just like that? She did? How?”

Nanette looked up and shook her head.

“I don’t know. I was in the dark cave and was trying to hide beneath a rock. And then I saw the light. And I heard terrible fighting. And then Miss Califor was there. She picked me up and scolded me. Then she brought me back, and we buried Belfaus. And that’s when she taught me to use magic to defend myself. But I never knew how she did it. I asked everyone, but no one said they knew. Only that Miss Califor tore up half the mountainside looking for me. And she found me.”

“How? How’d she beat that many Gargoyles? A decent Gold-rank team could only get—three. How’d she do it? Scare them off? Is that—could Mavika do that?”

Ryoka demanded incredulously. She looked to Wiskeria for confirmation, but Wiskeria seemed surprised herself.

“That’s powerful magic if she literally just beat them in a fight. Any [Witch] can trick monsters, but if that story’s true, she’s definitely one of the best. Any clues, Nanette?”

Nanette shook her head, eyes wide and earnest.

“She never told me how she got rid of them all. But everyone says that it was a grand feat, even for Miss Califor. And it wasn’t easy. She still has a scar from that day. Right here.”

She pointed at a spot just above her hip. Ryoka gazed at Nanette. The little [Witch] concluded, folding her hands on the table and looking at them earnestly.

“I never forgot. And Miss Califor’s always been there. She’s the best. I want to be like her when I grow up. I don’t want to disappoint her. I’m sure Witch Belavierr cares about you just as much—almost as much—as Miss Califor cares about me, Wiskeria. And your mother too, Ryoka.”

She couldn’t have known how those words went through Wiskeria and Ryoka. Or why they looked at each other, and for a moment, each wished they had a story they could tell like that. Something so pure, so simple. And why it hurt that Nanette could tell that tale of Califor with such sincerity.

Ryoka thought of her own mother. She tried to imagine her mother—she had disappointed her parents greatly. But they had also disappointed her. Even Ryoka the adult wished they had been more, even if they’d been people, not perfect paragons. And she saw something similar in Wiskeria’s gaze. Similar, but different. But there they were. They got along and annoyed each other because there was something similar.

Of course, Nanette had no idea why Wiskeria and Ryoka started crying. Neither Ryoka or Wiskeria could explain the pure, contemptible jealousy in their hearts. And Nanette eventually began sobbing in sympathy.

That was how Miss Califor found them. The old [Witch] stared down at the three crying girls at the tea table. And she sighed.

“Up, the three of you. We have business.”

Nanette scrambled up, remembering her fear. But all Califor did was take Nanette to Eloise’s house, and to her delight, the [Tea Witch] had something freshly-baked.

“Shortbread slices with a dash of forgiveness for girls like you.”

It was a treat! Nanette took a piece and looked up at Califor, and the [Witch] patted Nanette on the head.

“You’ll get your sickle back in time, Nanette.”

All was forgiven, and the little girl hugged Califor and promised to be more careful. Ryoka and Wiskeria snuck pieces of the bread, and it was delicious.



——



“You know, Witch Califor, I thought you’d hunt me down.”

“Truly? Why?”

Witch Califor was walking down the streets of Riverfarm with Nanette tipping her hat and waving to the villagers of Riverfarm with Ryoka and Wiskeria. The little witch would greet people by name, and they would wave back, wary.

It was hard to be on-guard around Nanette. Every other [Witch]? Yes. But the little twelve-year-old girl had happiness under her hat. She was innocent, and Califor herself?

Some people eyed Califor, but she just walked sedately along, and Wiskeria seemed to be reconciling her reputation to the woman herself.

“I…well, when I first came here, I was worried people would take offense. Because I am my mother’s daughter. I thought you might come to deal with me. When Mavika found me, I thought it was all agreed upon.”

Califor shook her head, looking faintly amused.

“You think too much of our schemes. We [Witches] squabble. If I recall right, Mavika expressed to me that she would seek out Belavierr’s daughter and see who she was.”

“So you did talk about me!”

“When we knew you existed. But not to control. In my experience, for what little it’s worth, guidance matters more than control. We are [Witches]; we try not to meddle in each other’s business. We thought you needed help. Mavika has offered to teach you, hasn’t she?”

Wiskeria made a face as Ryoka listened.

“And put me in her coven. She’s pushy.”

“But she does not force you?”

“No…”

“Then your decision stood. I imagined that if you had the need, you would seek me out. But I would have been a poor teacher even if circumstances threw us together. As you can see, Nanette fills my attention.”

Califor gestured, and Nanette was following a cat around, grinning in delight as it noticed her. Wiskeria shook her head.

“The great Witch Califor raising a single apprentice.”

“A great witch should be able to do that, if anyone can. We shall see if I have the right to that title.”

Califor’s neutral response made Wiskeria flush. Ryoka eyed Califor, wavering between saying anything, but Califor just glanced at Ryoka.

“Miss Griffin, I would caution you to stay clear of Belavierr. But since that would be wasting my breath, I will just ask where you hail from?”

“Me? Oh, Reizmelt.”

“And before that?”

Ryoka grew a bit tongue-tied as Califor began to press her about her origins. As it turned out, Califor was mostly interested in how Ryoka had met Laken, but the [Witch] seemed altogether too knowing.

“Liscor? I have heard Liscor has some oddities of note. I might go there after Riverfarm—if I could find a place and community fit for Nanette. She doesn’t wish to part from me.”

Wiskeria and Ryoka, mindful of their conversation with Nanette, exchanged glances, and Califor noticed.

“I simply cannot take her into danger. If I had known this was the situation at Riverfarm, I would never have brought her. My own peril is one thing. My apprentice’s—unacceptable.”

That was so responsible a position Ryoka was surprised it came from a [Witch]. But then again—she glanced at Califor.

“Do you think you can convince Riverfarm to let you stay, Witch Califor?”

“That depends on who Emperor Godart is. I am taking a measure of him as well as Riverfarm. We shall see.”

Califor’s tone was neutral. Wiskeria looked around at the people staring at them.

“I think my mother’s jeopardizing those chances, for all she swore to be part of the coven, Witch Califor.”

Here, Califor did pause.

“Yes…she’s every bit the Belavierr of legends. I thought she might be different, but her very presence meant it would never be anything normal. However, we do what we can. It is good that the people and the [Emperor] see who [Witches] are. An honest pact will rest on nothing less.”

That was one way of looking at it. Ryoka hesitated.

“So are you doing anything to win over Riverfarm or show who you are, Witch Califor? Besides delivering aid and saving me. Thank you for that, by the way.”

Califor raised her brows, amused once more.

“Of course. We’re doing it right now.”

The two women looked around, and Wiskeria actually peered at Califor’s hat before Califor nodded to Nanette.

“Taking the air. Walking through Riverfarm. Helping if we see someone who needs a pair of hands. That is witchcraft, and for that, I am glad Nanette is here. We have too many great [Witches] and not a single one who is like most [Witches]. Agratha would have been perfect here.”

Wait, was that what she was doing? Ryoka glanced at Nanette and realized—it might be working. There was nothing to make you think a [Witch] could be innocent like cute, little Nanette. And Califor wasn’t beating someone down with her bare fists or summoning flocks of crows.

“[Witches] are sometimes normal as well, Miss Griffin. Belavierr is still a mother. And she can still be petty. Extraordinarily so, according to story.”

Califor’s voice made Ryoka jump and blush. Wiskeria glanced at Califor, tugging at her hat, as if about to ask something.

“Witch Califor…about my craft. I don’t have one, but you’re said to not have one either. Do you think we could be alike?”

She looked wistfully at Califor, and the older [Witch] raised her brows.

“I do have one, Wiskeria. Or rather, I’ve had several. I used to wear happiness, like Nanette. Then I went to passion, great deeds; it’s more that I’ve shifted focuses over the years. These days, you could say much of my craft is Nanette and teaching. I think your issue would be finding one to begin with. You are allowed to change. But it must be earnest.”

Oh. Was that why she didn’t do great magic anymore? It wasn’t what Wiskeria wanted to hear, clearly. Witch Califor looked at the two, as if thinking. Whatever she might have said as advice never came out, though.

Califor slowed as she saw Nanette standing in place on the road. The girl had the cat she’d been following in her arms, which was surprising. But maybe cats liked Nanette just like people?

…Or maybe the cat had climbed into Nanette’s arms to escape the [Witch] standing like an obelisk of cloth, hand outstretched to a man on his hands and knees in the center of the street.

Belavierr.

“Oh no. Mother!”

Ryoka’s good mood vanished instantly. Belavierr was there. And she was standing in front of a man who had collapsed in front of her. Almost in a sick pantomime of a kindly woman helping someone who had fallen up.

But there was nothing kind nor natural about Belavierr’s half-smile, all fakeness, nor her swirling robes. And the man? The man looked up, shaking, unable to stand. With a terror in him that was all the worse for how strong Ryoka knew he could be.

Mister Prost. His eyes were wide with terror and—desperation as he stared up at Belavierr. Oh no.

No, no, no. Ryoka saw another woman covering her face as she stared, flinching away. Miss Yesel. They were in the street, cowering away from Belavierr. Why?

Mister Prost lost children in the avalanche in Riverfarm. Ryoka felt the pieces of a puzzle fall into place like thunder as she started forwards. Someone grabbed her arm. Califor.

Wiskeria had no such arm to block her path. Califor moved Ryoka back, bending down to shield Nanette, as Belavierr spoke.

“Let me show you more, Prost Surehand.”

“Leave. Leave—don’t show me that. Stop.”

Prost couldn’t stand. The same man who’d shouted at Belavierr to her face couldn’t push himself up. All his anger and authority—

Replaced by a terror of something Belavierr was holding. Ryoka couldn’t see it. Was it a baby? A…?

“Mother!”

A picture frame. Belavierr turned, and Ryoka caught sight of a simple, framed picture in glass as Belavierr looked at Wiskeria. Just a picture.

Of a boy. Hands pressed to the glass of the picture. Waving at Mister…Prost…

The picture was moving. And Ryoka would just bet it had a face she had never seen before. Belavierr lifted her hand, and the picture vanished.

“Anything can be done at any price. Mister Pr—”

“Mother, stop! You swore! Laken has ordered you to make no more bargains!”

Wiskeria ran forward, interposing herself between Belavierr and Prost, and tried to get the man on his feet. But he couldn’t move, and Yesel was sinking downwards.

“I must continue to rebuild what I have lost, Daughter.”

“No! I forbid it! Mother, don’t do this!”

Belavierr hesitated. But when she shook her head—she moved Wiskeria aside gently.

“Even for you, Daughter, I must be who I must be. As I said. Take my hand, Prost. There is no cost to seeing what I offer.”

No cost—but the man’s haunted eyes that were both filled with horror and longing. Ryoka was paralyzed. The memory of having her lips sewn shut wasn’t the only thing rooting her in place.

She’d wondered what a deal with the devil looked like. Prost was staring at his wife. He couldn’t want to take a deal. Not for something like Rehanna’s baby. But Belavierr crooked a finger.

“A picture is so very, very inexpensive. A speaking stone? For you, servant of an [Emperor], I will offer something better.”

“No. No…”

Prost groaned, and Wiskeria seized her mother’s arm, but Belavierr just kept moving, slowly reaching into her robes, as if Wiskeria were lighter than a feather. That was when Ryoka felt anger.

Poor Mister Prost, who had worked for Riverfarm. Kneeling there with grief, an old wound—surely not healed, but at least older—reopened. Tormented by what might be.

That was Belavierr. That, Ryoka realized, was the Witch of Webs. That contempt, not even conscious, for someone else? Ryoka balled up her hands. She wasn’t sure what the consequences would be for leaping in—

Ryoka took a step and nearly tripped as someone grabbed both legs. She flailed, and Nanette hauled her back.

“You can’t, Miss Ryoka!”

“Nanette! Let go!”

The girl had grabbed Ryoka’s legs! She’d lost her hat, and her pigtails shook with her head.

“You can’t! Miss Califor told me to hold you!”

“Let go! Let—”

Ryoka took a step as a red-faced Nanette tried to hold the much bigger young woman back. Ryoka stopped—and realized Califor was gone.

And so was Nanette’s hat. Ryoka’s head swiveled around, and there she was. Striding down the street, her apprentice’s hat in her hand. Califor reached into the hat, then flung it back towards Nanette.

The girl jumped up, caught the hat, and she and Ryoka saw Califor gesturing. Wiskeria let go of Belavierr, backing up to Ryoka and Nanette, and the Stitch Witch paid no attention to Prost. She was bending down, smiling, paying the rest of the world no heed.

—Until she heard a voice.

“Father!”

A girl’s voice. No, two girls and a boy raced forwards. The girls were both over ten, the eldest fifteen, and the boy was younger than Nanette. He might have been only six.

They ran down the street, and Prost looked up. His sightless gaze of horror fixed on his children, the three of them, and Califor came to a halt, her black hat blowing in the wind.

“Finnon. Margery—”

Prost’s voice broke. He stood unsteadily, and they grabbed him—then flinched back from Belavierr. The Stitch Witch was no longer smiling. She glanced at the children—then at Califor.

“What are you doing, Witch?”

“Preventing you from striking a pact. As the [Emperor] of this land has requested, Witch Belavierr.”

Califor tipped her hat gently to the woman. One of her hands was clenched, and Ryoka saw Nanette holding up her hat and inspecting it. Belavierr’s voice was cold, impartial.

“I was negotiating with the [Steward] on that very subject.”

“You were. As head of the coven you joined, I say it is against the spirit of the request. Nor does it serve our cause in Riverfarm. A cause you swore to uphold, Witch Belavierr.”

Califor’s voice was polite and crisp, but Belavierr’s orange eyes seemed to glow under her shadowy hat. A shadow…that Ryoka saw was deepening, concealing her features, spreading down the street. People backed away, and Ryoka realized as Wiskeria retreated, eyes wide—

Belavierr was not happy about having someone interrupt her deal. Ryoka almost went to support Califor with the power of her bare feet—but they wouldn’t move.

Even from afar, her legs were shaking. Belavierr’s eyes seemed larger now, beyond vexed, hidden under the brim of her hat.

“Out of my way, Witch. My magic has been lost. Replacing it serves myself, and thus the coven.”

“I find that argument pedantic, Witch Belavierr. Will you not heed me? I say again: I lead this coven. I did not interfere with your business with Rehanna, for a witch is a witch, and we should not meddle in each other’s business. Now, I have cause. Perhaps [Witches] should have done so before, for I have heard grave things of Noelictus. I would speak to you of both this and your actions in Terandria.”

Califor’s voice was polite, clipped, and Ryoka saw the rest of the [Witches] walking in a line down the street. They halted where Nanette and Wiskeria stood, facing Belavierr; Alevica was licking dry lips. Mavika was just eying Belavierr as Hedag rolled one shoulder. Eloise’s eyes were flicking from Belavierr to Wiskeria—but Belavierr ignored them all.

“My affairs on Terandria are my own. Witches do not meddle in each other’s affairs, woman.”

“Largely. Unless we find what other witches do to be distasteful. Or beyond condoning. I confess—we did not know where you were or if you even existed until recently.”

Califor cast a glance to Wiskeria. It seemed to be an admission of fault, and Belavierr laughed. An unpleasant laugh that dug beneath the skin and squirmed there.

“My affairs. If you could not even tell if I was alive, you had no right to interfere with my affairs.”

She sneered at Califor, and the other [Witch] nodded.

“True. I now know, or suspect, you are alive. Your business is now that of the Witches of Izril. Desist, Witch Belavierr. You are not a [Witch] alone.”

Her voice rose, and despite herself, Ryoka wanted to whistle. Belavierr just turned away from Califor and addressed the people in the street.

“I am Belavierr. I offer you who gather here a boon like no other. I am the Witch of Webs, the Spider of Terandria. You may know my name. My tales. They are true.”

The people stared at her as she swung her cloak, and a shadow lengthened across the street. Belavierr, already towering, seemed to grow even taller as she turned.

“I offer you a boon. For a price. Have you ever known loss? Have you lost love, friendship, a child? I can restore all things. Do you wish for a potion to besot the heart? Mine shall never run dry. Do you wish a cure for your eyes? I can mend bone, make beauty out of stone. Simply speak my name, whisper it in vanity or shame. And I shall offer you what Djinnis cannot. At a price. Speak your wishes to me. This is the one chance you will have in a lifetime.”

Her eyes were hypnotic, and when they passed over Ryoka, even she felt a whisper in the back of her mind.

…could fix those fingers. New ones, ones that no one can ever bite off or hand back to you again. Love? You could walk into any room and have anyone, man or woman, with the right trinket. You could run faster than anyone in the world.

For a price. For a terrible price. Ryoka tried to put her hands over her ears. But the entire village was surely hearing Belavierr; she was growing taller, taller than houses, and her voice was in every ear.

How many people might take her offer? Who wanted new looks or a reminder of a friend? A piece of magic? If you could buy it for one year of your life, what would you trade?

Ryoka was cowering, and she heard a moan from Prost again. Belavierr’s voice rang in her ears like chanting—and a single [Witch] stood in the shadow of the Witch of Webs and looked up.

Witch Califor stared up past Belavierr at the sky. It was dark; a shadow had fallen across the very summer sky, but Califor took her hat off her head and fanned her face.

“It’s a hot day. Blazing, until now. It should have been drizzling, I think. Someone’s dried the air out.”

The Stitch Witch, Belavierr, heard the comment and paused as she turned. Her eyes met Califor’s.

“Yes. And?”

It was the one and only unguarded statement Ryoka had ever heard Belavierr make. A note of surprise in immortal tones, as if Belavierr was shocked Califor had noticed.

For answer, Califor gently opened her closed hand. She tossed something straight up.

“Let it be.”

Something glowing flew upwards past Belavierr’s face, slowly at first, weaving past the [Stitch Witch] as she snatched for it. A glowing, shimmering bit of…

It flashed up, and the black sky cracked. Pieces of shadow fell, and one part hit Ryoka in the face. She recoiled with a cry, flailing. Then she realized it wasn’t shadows but…

Rain?

A drop of rain hit Ryoka in the face. A little speck of water. Ryoka blinked as it ran onto one palm.

“Orange?”

An orange drop of rain in her hand. Then another bounced off of Nanette’s hat, and a blue teardrop landed in her hands. A green patter of raindrops rained off one of the houses’ roofs—and Belavierr stared as multi-colored drops of rain began to fall.

They landed in the pooling shadows, interrupted the whispers in Ryoka’s ears. Rain…just a drizzle. But on this hot day, the people of Riverfarm looked up and felt a refreshing downpour on their skin.

Just for a moment. But that was all it took. Belavierr swished her cloak and began to raise her voice. Then she whirled, and Califor was standing there. A satisfied half-smile on her face.

“She just—called a rainstorm? Wait, is this her big craft? Really?”

Alevica looked up, shielding her face from the colorful raindrops. However—Hedag just nudged her.

“It’s working. Look.”

Like people waking from a nightmare, Riverfarm’s folk stopped cowering from Belavierr and blinked. Prost, holding his children for dear life, was hit by a shower of red droplets and spluttered.

“My clothes! Your clothes, Prost! They’ll all stain!”

Yesel shouted reflexively—then looked at the man. Of all the things to care about with Witch Belavierr looming over them—Prost turned to Belavierr. Then looked at Yesel. The tears in his eyes were invisible with the falling rain.

“Look! Look! Rain! Hey! It tastes like colors too!”

His son ran around gleefully. Prost blinked at him—then a bewildered laugh escaped Prost’s lips. Rain.

It washed away more than just Belavierr’s voice and the shadows. It felt like…Ryoka closed her eyes a second, wondering why it was so familiar. Then she turned to Nanette, and Wiskeria mumbled.

“She did all that with just Ryoka’s happiness?”

My—Ryoka blinked. She stared down the street, and Witch Califor lifted her hat and nodded to Nanette. Nanette, from whom she’d borrowed some of her craft.

Then Califor whirled a hand, and the drizzle spiraled down in a gust of wind, and the skies cleared. The people gasped and shouted—and the sky was bright and clear.

“Well, that was shorter than I’d like. It seems it really is unnaturally dry. A refreshing shower, though.”

Califor stood there, and Belavierr glanced left and right—and people stared at her and backed away. But her voice, her offer? It was like a memory from last night, and she turned, frustrated.

Then glanced down at Califor’s hand. The other [Witch] had hold of Belavierr’s arm.

“I would stop there if I were you, Witch Belavierr. It would not do for you to be thought of as a woman who breaks her word.”

The rest of the coven approached, and Belavierr stared from face to face. Alevica tried to hide behind Eloise, but Belavierr only exhaled.

“Who are you, Witch?”

“I’m sure it doesn’t matter.”

Witch Califor smiled. Wiskeria shot her a wide-eyed look of delight and hid a smile. Belavierr glanced back at her daughter’s face—then whirled away. Without a word, she stalked out of Riverfarm. The people waited until Belavierr was gone before they began cheering.

“They cheer as if this weren’t our mess to clean up. Nanette. Why are you applauding?”

Califor shook her head, and Wiskeria stood there, demanding to know how she’d done that with Alevica. And Ryoka?



——



Califor came over to apologize to Mister Prost, who thanked her. The brief shower of colored rain wasn’t staining clothing; it was just water, but it had refreshed the village and cleared troubled faces.

“That Belavierr—”

“I believe she will stop. If not, I will oppose her with the coven. My word on it, Mister Prost. I can only apologize for what she put you through.”

“I’ll trust that, Witch Califor. No harm done from you. Thank you.”

Prost shook her hand a few times, and Wiskeria whispered to Ryoka.

“I’ve never seen anyone best Mother! Mavika apparently knew her, but she’s old. She never—did you see Califor do that? No wonder they tell stories about her!”

“I just hope Laken can deal with Belavierr.”

Ryoka was relieved, but worried now about how Laken would do. Wiskeria waved this off, which Ryoka found odd.

“He’s an [Emperor].”

“He’s from my w—he’s just like you and me, Wiskeria.”

The [Witch] gave Ryoka such an arch look that Ryoka got annoyed.

“He’s an expert, Ryoka. At least, in dealing with unnatural things.”

“Wh—Laken is the expert?”

That stung so much Ryoka instantly called bullshit. But Wiskeria gave Ryoka a deadpan nod as the Wind Runner stared at her.

“I actually think he might be able to persuade Mother when he gets here. You see, he’s done this before. I heard tales about it, but once, just once, I saw him greet these…people. His [Lords] and [Ladies]. Visitors. But they were like us, but not.”

Wiskeria leaned forwards. And Ryoka felt a jolt of adrenaline run through her. Laken had offered Ivolethe—

“Wait. What visitors? You mean, they came here? In the winter?”

“No, the spring. They were these strange, dangerous folk—”

“The fair folk? Wait? Are they here? What did they do? They came here in the spring?”

Her hands were suddenly gripping Wiskeria hard enough to bruise. The [Witch], alarmed, tried to pull away. But Ryoka was staring at her. The [Witch] felt it from her. The strongest emotion she’d ever sensed from Ryoka.

The desperate longing. Hope. She stammered as Ryoka asked—practically shouted questions. Ryoka let go and stood up.

“They’re here. Laken can summon them? Or—they have ties to this place?”

Her eyes flickered. She reached into a belt pouch and grasped something. Wiskeria, coughing, saw Ryoka murmuring to herself.

“Maybe a ritual? A faerie mound? No. The Summer Solstice. If it’s here—”

She turned. And Wiskeria felt a surge of hope and desperation bordering on madness. She coughed.

“Ryoka.”

“I’m going.”

Absently, Ryoka walked off. Wiskeria tried to go after her, but Ryoka broke into a run. The City Runner was filled with maddening thoughts. Hopes. A single one. And suddenly, she had every reason to talk to Laken.

But before that came her. Belavierr stood alone far outside the village. She looked annoyed. Angry. She turned, and her eyes fixed on Ryoka. The City Runner slowed.

“Begone.”

Ryoka hesitated. She was afraid. But she clutched the bit of frozen water, and it gave her strength. A hot wind blew around her. She had to try. And she raised her voice.

“Hi. I’m Ryoka Griffin. A friend of Wiskeria’s, or at least, I hope.”

Belavierr paused. She stared at Ryoka, fingers twisted as if to do something. Ryoka went on, speaking clearly, meeting the [Witch]’s eyes.

“She isn’t certain you love her, you know. And you drive her away every time you seal yourself.”

The [Witch] said nothing. Ryoka went on, trying to speak from the heart.

“You have to change. So does she. But neither of you can do it alone. And the other can’t do it without you trying. That’s all I have to say. And if I can help you two, I will. Please don’t kill me.”

Belavierr peered at Ryoka. The City Runner braced. After a second, Belavierr lifted a finger. She pointed up. Ryoka felt her clothes move.

“Wait—wait! I only—”

Belavierr ignored her. She stared at Ryoka. She flicked her fingers, and the clothes hurled Ryoka through the air.

About four hundred feet away, Mister Ram and some [Farmers] were working the fields, grumbling about dry soil. They looked up as they saw a big shape flying towards them. Ram stared up and swore as he heard a screaming voice.

“Ohgodohgodohgod—”

Ryoka didn’t die when she hit the river. Her fall wasn’t at terminal velocity. But she still sank to the bottom and swam out, gasping at the cold shock. She looked around wildly as Ram and everyone who’d seen her flying rushed over. Ryoka clambered out as Ram reached for her.

“Dead gods! Miss Griffin! What happened?”

“Belavierr.”

Someone uttered it like a curse. But Ryoka just nodded. She gazed at a distant figure. Belavierr was still standing there. Ryoka felt at her wet body. Then she crawled onto the bank and lay on the grass. She looked up at Ram, wide-eyed.

“I’m not dead. That probably means progress.”

He gaped at her, and she smiled. Then put her head down on the grass and passed out.





Day 65 – Ryoka



Waking. Explaining what had happened to Prost. Talking with Wiskeria, who marched off to shout at her mother. Sleeping and waking in a cold sweat. The next day, Ryoka still shuddered. But she thought she’d made progress. She still wasn’t sure if the wind had saved her, blowing her into the river, or if Belavierr had aimed for that.

But it was something. Ryoka had hope. Because the day was clear, if too hot. And she could try again, this time with Wiskeria. A mother-daughter talk with her acting as intermediary, for what it was worth.

And she had no idea what was happening. Because in Reizmelt, a Vampire girl wrote down Belavierr’s name and was attacked by sewing needles. Across the ocean, the Order of Seasons waited, and a group of [Hunters] and a [Knight] stood, hoping for confirmation. A single name.

On that day stood a [Witch]. Belavierr. She might have slept. She might have woken. But how she lived was a mystery to most. It made sense to her, though. Her actions had purpose. Her magic was connected, a product of thread and skill and power.

This is what she saw. The [Witch] held up a ward. A needle tied with a thread. The needle tied with thread vibrated and twisted and turned as she held it. Moving despite the absence of wind. Belavierr watched as it stabbed. And Fierre screamed. The Stitch Witch waited. But the stabbing needle kept moving. Desperately.

Then it stopped. The magic was gone. And Belavierr saw the needle snap. She stared at it.

“Hm. Four. The last is failed.”

Her head turned. The wide brim moved towards the sun. Belavierr, staring straight into it.

“Death is hunting me. Flame, this time.”

That was intuition. But the Stitch Witch had certainty as well. She abandoned the failed ward and reached into her sleeves. From somewhere, she brought out something.

It was a tapestry. A small woven scene on a fabric. Silk, or something just as fine. Belavierr looked at it.

She had not woven it. It had woven itself. What it showed her was a burning figure. And fire. Fire, a burning figure. She touched it, and the very fabric was hot.

“So. Two deaths.”

To Belavierr, it was clear as could be. And the Stitch Witch did not question. She knew, and so she acted. She walked, and a thread in her mind, in reality, a bit of magic, led her straight to a [Witch] taking breakfast with Ryoka. Belavierr’s attention was on her daughter. She only vaguely recognized Ryoka; she had forgotten all but the other [Witches]. And she spoke.

“Daughter. I am leaving. There is danger following me.”

That was all. And it was a clear message. But her daughter, the one thing in the world Belavierr couldn’t understand—tried to understand but was incomprehensible—spluttered and asked questions. Belavierr only said what she knew.

“It is too dangerous for me. I will return for you. And the pact with this [Emperor] if there is time.”

“Mother! You can’t just run off! Hold on! Wait! I want to speak with you!”

Belavierr was already leaving. But she paused. Because of Wiskeria. Only for her, despite the danger. The tapestry was smoking. Burning. In Reizmelt, Fierre stomped into the tavern and grabbed the [Mage].

“Daughter. I must go.”

“Mother—what have you done?”

“Nothing?”

Belavierr had no idea. She did not ask the origin, only sought the nature of the threat. She showed Wiskeria the tapestry. Her daughter was uncomprehending.

“I don’t understand.”

“It is a warning. Like other wards, but prophecy. You would know this if you had continued studying your craft, Daughter.”

Belavierr frowned. And she was distracted. Wiskeria glared up at her mother. Someone else spoke urgently by her shoulder.

“Witch Belavierr? What kind of threat is it? Can you tell us if it’s aimed at us? Or just you?”

Belavierr’s eyes swung to Ryoka. In annoyance. The City Runner froze, but Wiskeria blocked Belavierr.

“Don’t glare, Mother! This is Ryoka. My friend. I want you to listen to her, understand?”

“I understand. But, Daughter. I must leave. The death follows me. It may affect you—”

Across the world, the Knight-Commander spoke an order. The [Autumn Knights] called on their grand ritual.

Belavierr’s head snapped up. Across Riverfarm, seven [Witches] looked up. Wiskeria. Nanette. Califor. Hedag. Eloise. Alevica. Mavika. Even Nesor felt it.

So did Ryoka. She gazed up. The wind had changed. It blew, suddenly a gale. Belavierr sighed and turned.

“Daughter. I must go.”

“What is that?”

Wiskeria was gaping. The air was shaking. Ryoka heard a voice. A thunder, like the cracking of the sky. Her hair was standing on end. Prost and Rie gazed up and called the alarm.

They all felt it. And then they saw it. The sky and ground were merging. Outside of Riverfarm, the air warped. Ryoka, turning, saw them.

Ranks of armored Humans. [Knights], hundreds of them, standing in line. Some were dressed like the spring, in green. Others blazed. Still more were dressed in robes or wearing the russet colors of fall. And few stood like ice. One of them was closest, standing on a dais. He pointed, his sword aimed straight through the disturbance in the air. His eyes found Ryoka and moved past her. They widened with hatred. And Belavierr blinked.

Ryoka saw a band of seven in the center of the disturbance. Seven figures, all on foot. Six wore dark clothing, the same capotain style hats on two. Set faces. Each carried weapons. A pair of crossbows. A golden axe. A wand and rapier. A longbow, already nocked with a shimmering arrow. A hammer and shield.

The last was a [Knight]. He walked forwards. He was at the very edge of his forties or the end of his thirties. And his armor was yellow and orange and gold. It shone. But brighter still, the burning in his gaze, as if fire itself flickered in his pupils. He walked first, and the six [Hunters] were behind him.

Through that disturbance in the air where magic itself was affecting reality. Behind him, the Order of Seasons roared. Ryoka froze.

“What’s happening? Dead gods, what’s happening?”

Someone was shouting that. Riverfarm’s people couldn’t have ignored the magical disturbance. They flooded towards the rift, staring. Mister Prost, Beniar and his [Riders]. Lady Rie.

And the coven. The [Witches] came forwards. Even Mavika and Califor stared. Alevica’s jaw dropped. Ryoka’s head spun. She gaped at Wiskeria. The [Witch]’s face was white.

“What kind of magic is this? A Tier 7 spell? Tier 8?”

Ryoka turned back to the rift. Then she glanced around. Her eyes found Belavierr. The Stitch Witch was staring into the rift, at the band slowly walking towards her. The [Summer Knight]’s gaze was blazing, the [Hunters]’ intent. They never looked away from her as they crossed that divide. Nor did Knight-Commander Calirn. He stood with three of the four Grandmasters of the Order of Seasons. And the ranks of the [Knights] beheld her. Belavierr.

“Why is this happening?”

There were many answers. Ryoka thought of a [Witch Hunter]. If she had known more, she might have thought of Fierre. Or Belavierr’s ward spells. And perhaps she might have seen the larger picture if it was explained.

But she didn’t. Because Mavika’s words came back, echoing.

This is not your story.

“Belavierr. This day has been ages coming. Stand and face your fate!”

Knight-Commander Calirn bellowed across the rift. The [Hunters] and [Knight] were closing on her, stepping into Riverfarm. One held a scrying orb. And even as the grand ritual’s magic began to fail, the rift began to close, the [Hunter] lifted the orb. She tossed it, and it paused in the air. The Order of Seasons was reflected there.

The [Hunters] and [Knight] stopped on the grass. The magic vanished from the air. Ryoka staggered back. They had crossed from that other place over to here in less than a minute! She could still feel the shuddering in the air. And now—they were here.

Silence. Nobody could speak. Ryoka’s eyes were wide. How could this be happening? But she was a bystander. And this was not her final act. The [Knight] had no eyes for her. He drew his sword. A greatsword, two-handed. And he spoke.

“Belavierr the Stitch Witch.”

There she stood. Tall as midnight. Dark as shadows. Her glowing eyes fixed on the man as the [Hunters] spread out. And there was a flicker of recognition.

“Do I…know you?”

The [Summer Knight] didn’t blink. He only smiled. And his eyes blazed.

“Belavierr, the Witch of Webs. The Hunter’s Guild of Noelictus and the Order of Seasons ordain your death. Come to execute this duty are six [Witch Hunters] from Terandria. And myself. I am Ser Raim, [Summer Knight] of the Order of Seasons. Today, for the dead, for those who still suffer from your deception and malice, I will bring you to justice.”

He lifted his sword and saluted her. Ryoka was frozen along with the coven. Wiskeria looked at her mother, but she too was transfixed. It was all happening too fast. And it was not her tale.

Belavierr paused for a moment after Sir Raim delivered his vow. She stared at him. And then the six [Witch Hunters]. They were spread out in a semi-circle, flanking her. Four women, two men. One of them looked up. The sun was at her back. And she lifted her weapons in both hands.

A pair of crossbows, bolts tipped with silver. The string was metal, the weapons shining with magic. She aimed at Belavierr as the [Witch] considered.

“I have no quarrel with the Order of Seasons.”

That was what she said. The [Witch Hunter] called out.

“[Magicslayer’s Shot]. [Seven-League Bolts].”

Ryoka saw her pull the triggers at a distance. She never saw the bolts fly. But she saw Belavierr stagger. Wiskeria cried out as Belavierr stumbled back. Two bolts were lodged in her chest. She stared down as the [Witch Hunter] flicked her crossbows.

“[Automatic Reload].”

The crossbows drew back, cocking themselves. Two new bolts appeared in the grooves. The [Witch Hunter] raised the crossbows again. Belavierr stared at the bolts in her chest. Slowly, she touched the liquid running down one bolt.

Red blood. The Stitch Witch looked up and spoke normally. As if the crossbow bolts weren’t there.

“I possess the life of the [Prince] of Kaliv—”

The second pair of bolts struck her right arm. Belavierr stumbled back. She stared at her arm. Tried again.

“His fate is—”

Her hand rose. Two more bolts appeared halfway through her hand. They would have struck her face. Belavierr gazed at them. At blood, which spattered as her arm jerked with the impact. Wiskeria made a sound. Belavierr frowned as the [Witch Hunter] with the crossbows paused.

And then the [Witch] twisted her fingers and flicked a needle.

Where had she pulled it from? Ryoka had no idea. But one needle suddenly shot across the ground at the [Witch Hunter]. Then it multiplied. A hundred. A thousand shot across the ground at the woman, like hail. She cursed.

“[Perfect D—]”

“[Shield of Valor]!”

The [Hunter] with the hammer and shield slammed his shield down in front of her. Ryoka saw a barrier of light. Heard and saw the needles snap as they struck the shield in the air. Belavierr paused.

“Tagil! Attack in tandem! Watch her threads!”

Another [Hunter], the one with the axe, called out. She advanced as the two other [Hunters] aimed. One with a bow, the other with a wand. The [Summer Knight] was still as Belavierr turned. She pulled a bolt out of her chest easily. And then she flicked her hand.

More needles. This time, ten times as many. They sprayed outwards, striking at all the [Hunters] and Ser Raim. The six [Hunters] shouted, but they were equal to it. They dodged or blocked. One simply took the hits; the needles stood out on her leather armor as she blocked the ones aimed at her face. She ignored the metal lodged deep into her armor.

Advancing. The silvery needles flew, trying to shred the hunters. But there stood Ser Raim. He wore no helmet. As the sewing needles shot at him, he spoke.

“[Aura of Righteous Fire].”

And he burned. The air ignited. The area around Ser Raim turned to flame. The metal needles melted before they touched him. The [Summer Knight] walked forwards. His steps lit a trail of fire. His armor burned with it. For twenty feet, fire burned. And it walked with him as he advanced on Belavierr.

Seven. They came forwards. Belavierr abandoned the needles. Frowned. Then she inspected Ser Raim again. Recognition flickered in her eyes.

“Have we met before? I almost remember…no. Nevermind.”

She shook her head. As Ryoka watched, breathless, waiting to see what she would do, Belavierr turned. And began to walk away.

“Belavierr! Hold!”

The [Hunters] advanced faster. One of them, the one with the longbow, raised it and aimed at her back.

“[Hunter’s Quarry]!”

The arrow sped towards Belavierr from behind. It never struck her. It did hit a face that pulled itself out of the earth. A huge, misshapen face. Staring button eyes. A golem of cloth. The [Hunters] charged, but two more golems rose out of the ground. And more needles flashed through the air. One as thick as Ryoka’s arm, a javelin of a needle—

“Halt! Belavierr!”

The [Summer Knight] was charging. But the Stitch Witch was just walking away. Calmly as you please as her creations screened her. But each step seemed to carry her far farther than they should have. She was walking towards a black horse who galloped to her, a giant of a stallion. Ryoka saw she was going to mount it. And ride away.

“Give me a clear shot! I have to mark her!”

The [Hunter] with the longbow was screaming. The other [Witch Hunters] were carving down the cloth golems. Ser Raim swung his sword; the golem blocking him burned, and his sword cleaved the thing in two. But Belavierr was far away. So far, she was a speck. In moments! He charged after her. But it was too late.

Too late—until a voice rang out. A [Hunter] had fought clear of her golem. She saw Belavierr departing. And she changed targets. Instead of running at Belavierr, she ran straight at Ryoka. Ryoka and Wiskeria. The City Runner jerked back, but it wasn’t her the [Witch Hunter] was aiming at. The woman swung her axe.

“Belavierr! Hold! Hold or your daughter dies!”

And the black speck paused. Wiskeria froze, eyes wide. The [Witch Hunter] panted, a needle buried in her cheek. She spoke, her eyes dispassionate, locked on Belavierr’s distant form.

“We know you have a daughter. So hold, and return to face us. Or she dies.”

“[Hunter] Gaile! Enough!”

Ser Raim whirled. His eyes blazed with fury. He lifted his greatsword, but Gaile pressed her axe into Wiskeria’s neck. The blade dug into Wiskeria’s skin, parting it without effort.

“Don’t move, Ser Raim. You can’t stop my blade. No one here can.”

“Lower your axe, [Hunter]. Should Witch Wiskeria die, you will ere my crows fly.”

Mavika hissed at the [Hunter]. Alevica lifted her wand, and Califor turned, her gaze flashing. The coven of [Witches] faced the hunters and [Knight]. But Gaile didn’t move.

“Our quarry isn’t you, Mavika the Crow.”

“Nor is it the child! Leave her, Gaile!”

A [Huntress] called out, shifting her bow to aim at Gaile. The [Witch Hunter] just shook her head. She spoke. To the crowd. To her comrades. To the coven. And to the distant [Witch].

“This goes against your pride, Ser Raim. Your honor. But I am tired of this chase. If I swing, I die. But I will swing before any of you can stop me, even the Stitch Witch. This is our chance. If she refuses to do battle, she flees again. As she always has. But this time, I will take her daughter from her. That, at least, I can do.”

She looked at the blazing [Summer Knight], unafraid. And then at Wiskeria. The [Witch] was frozen, her eyes wide. Gaile’s gaze was distant. As distant as Belavierr’s.

“I’m sorry, girl. You did not choose your mother. But for her, I would break my honor. Because of her, I buried my own daughter.”

That was all. There she stood. And Ryoka, who had been part of this play, stumbled. She might have gone forwards, but the [Witch Hunter] was looking at her.

“Move closer and I cut. Step back.”

Ryoka hesitated. But Wiskeria was bleeding. Blood ran down her throat, soaking her robes. So Ryoka stumbled back. She glanced around. The [Witch Hunters] were paused. Two were aiming at Gaile. But the rest were staring past Ser Raim, who’d turned back.

Watching the distant speck that was Belavierr.

She had not moved. Nor had she come closer. And Wiskeria’s eyes shifted. Her head moved, cutting into the axe slightly. Looking at her mother.

“Belavierr.”

Ryoka didn’t know when she started running. But she was. She ran after Belavierr. Would Belavierr run? She wouldn’t leave?

But Ryoka felt it. A terrible feeling in the air. Belavierr had fled. She had sensed the danger. The [Hunters] and [Knight] had been sent for her. What was more—

They were all watching. Ryoka had to fight free of the crowd. Run past them for Belavierr. Everyone was there, an audience of thousands. And more. She bumped into a figure, heard a curse.



“Watch it, ye daft cunt. We’re trying to see!”



“Sorry, I—”

Ryoka turned her head. And then there they were. Standing. Sitting on the roofs of houses. A gathering of bright figures. Individuals who had no place in this world. But they had come. The young woman stopped, and her heart paused.

The fae looked down at her. Then up. They watched the [Summer Knight] and the lone figure. Belavierr. And Ryoka understood. They had come to see something even the fae deemed worthy. A story.

Perhaps only Ryoka saw them. Only she could see the watchers gathered invisibly among the others. But then—someone else saw. As Ryoka tore herself away, running, she saw a black figure. And two ringed eyes, glowing orange.

Belavierr looked past Ryoka. At the watching fae. She saw, and she knew. For a moment, she hesitated. The fair folk looked to her, waiting. And Ryoka, panting, saw the Stitch Witch hesitate.

Was that fear in her eyes? She looked back at her daughter, at the [Witch Hunter] holding her hostage. Ser Raim called out.

“Belavierr! If it is in my power, I will not let your daughter come to harm! But I cannot stop my companion. Should she strike, I will cut her down. I cannot save your daughter where I stand.”

He planted his sword in the ground, burning. And the world waited. Ryoka looked up at Belavierr. The Stitch Witch sighed. She gazed back at Ser Raim.

“Your word on it?”

“I swear. Return and she lives.”

Gaile called out. Belavierr peered at her. Then she dismounted from the horse. Ryoka’s breath caught in her chest. The [Witch Hunters] paused, incredulous. But Ser Raim nodded. He looked at Gaile.

“Gaile.”

“No. End it, Raim. While she lives, the axe stays. And if Belavierr flees, her daughter dies. If she lives, I’ll lower my axe and submit myself to justice.”

The [Witch Hunter] gritted her teeth. Ser Raim bowed his head. Then he turned. Belavierr was walking back towards them. Slowly. But she seemed to grow with every step. Her shadow grew longer despite the day.

Four [Hunters] and a [Knight] barred her way, blocking Wiskeria and Gaile. To the side watched Riverfarm’s people, the coven. Ryoka and the fae. Behind the [Hunters], an orb floated in the air, and there watched the Order of Seasons, Wistram. But no others.

Ser Raim stepped forwards. He blazed brightly. But Belavierr’s every step called darkness. The ground shook. And Ryoka saw him smile wistfully.

He was not her match. None of them were. But they didn’t flee. The [Witch Hunters]’ faces were set. And then Ser Raim gazed up. He pulled his greatsword out of the ground. The flames around him, his very aura, were flickering out as the shadows seemed to eat at the fire around him. He called out though, smiling.

“The sun is bright today. Glorious. Look—the sun shines!”

The [Summer Knight] pointed up. He spread his arms, as if embracing the sky. Then he glanced around. At his comrades, half a world away. His audience. And the fae stirred. Ser Raim looked back at Belavierr. His voice rang, building.

“I am a small flame. My worth is but kindling before the darkness I face. But even the smallest fire may blaze bright. So, to face this foe, let me offer a sacrifice worthy of the deed!”

He raised his sword. And the fire around him faded. And then a brilliant flame slowly engulfed his armor. Incomparable to the fire before. It burned brighter than the sun’s light.

“I carry the last torch of Paladin Arteis—hallowed by her name. For this act, I offer time. I offer my life! [Lifeburning Flames]! Come, [Witch]! Watch, fate! Let me burn the Stitch Witch until nothing remains!”

And there was fire. Pure essence of flame. It burned everything by sight alone. Ryoka felt it scorch her. The fae stirred. Hundreds of miles away, a Dragon woke. In Reizmelt, Levil the [Pyromancer] turned and felt the heat.

“Flame.”

It burned the crowd. Mavika shrieked, her crows screaming and fleeing the flames. Alevica stumbled away, her robes and hat smoking, crying out. Some in the crowd fell. Others burned and fled.

And Belavierr? She shaded her eyes. Ser Raim advanced. He looked up at her, she down at him.

“Is that all?”

“No. I offer everything.”

The [Summer Knight] raised his sword.

“[My Life, be Thou My Fire].”

Then the flames were all-consuming. They burned the shadows themselves. Spreading. Ser Raim charged, and Belavierr flung up her arms. He struck at her, struck at her body, the invisible threads running from her through the sky. The flames consumed both.

And she screamed. The thread burnt. The shadows fled. Belavierr screamed, and the shriek was the sound of immortality dying. She struck back at Ser Raim, and he struggled. The air shifted. Threads reached down, claws of fabric.

The [Witch Hunters] attacked and advanced, battling monsters that stepped sideways out of the world. A screaming apparition tore open the sky, and a [Witch Hunter] shot at it. Another battled a giant as tall as a hill made of cloth.

In the center of it stood Ser Raim and Belavierr. They struck each other, one burning, the other aflame. They tore at each other with spell, with Skill and steel and rage. And Belavierr burned.

She could have run. She could have fled. But her daughter stood hostage, so the mother refused to flee. She walked through fire as the [Knight] burned her. And her blood was red. Belavierr fought and burned.

The fire met thread.





6.44 E


(Volume 2 of The Wandering Inn is available on Amazon! If you can, please leave a review or tell people it’s out! Buying is not necessarily necessary. Thanks so much for the support!)



Day 65



A woman sat in a web made by a spider. She was sewing, stitching together a soul out of pieces. The fabric was worn and old, tattered and stained by sins. It was made of flesh and sacrifice. Stolen years and desperate deeds.

Blood? A single skein of thread could contain oceans. The needle that pieced each part of this soul together was black, like the empty eyes of the dead.

The woman had heard the silent scream of a soul leaving the body a million million times. She had stolen the souls and the lives of so many she could no longer remember. Whispering to them for secrets and offering them halflife for prices only she could name. Leaving behind pain and regret and anguish and death upon death upon death.

The spider’s web was vast—or had been. Now, it floated, free-form, strands of identity, memory, and power hanging around her. A tapestry of eons of making to rival Dragons or the greatest [Archmages] and legends—destroyed.

Mice. Naughty, wretched mice had eaten it away. Exposed holes. Weaknesses. For however filthy any part was—a ransomed life, an eye plucked from a socket in trade, a sacrifice in scarlet—what she had made of it had been beautiful.

Her web. The woman could well be called the Spider, then. The Last Weaver. Witch of Webs. Temptress. So many names.

How had it been ruined so? The pieces had been nibbled at without her knowledge, power stolen away until entire fragments of her being were disconnected. Into that gap came weakness.

Even now, the woman looked around and saw the damage to her web. Not just to her village; her eyes roamed and saw shattered threads. Ruined. So much work ruined by song and flame.

Unacceptable. Her lips would have curled if she was capable of that much emotion. Instead, the woman just bent back to work, and her furious work to mend and salvage what could be salvaged consumed her.

The tapestry of her soul was only about her. Her…and a single child holding her hand. Her deaths circled the weaving, unable to pierce the manifold layers to the heart of her. Rings of immortality bargained for, stolen, obtained in profane ways.



Bind your soul by magic against spell and blade and Skill.

Murder the last of the ancient Phoenixes and eat its heart raw.

Strike a deal with a [Necromancer] of old for the secret to his eternal body and life.

Write a pact to send your death to another woman before it came to you. A hundred women. A thousand.



She had not striven for one method, but rather, all. It was her life’s work, and it had all been undone because she had grown careless. She had fallen asleep, lonely from her daughter’s absence, sated on her latest project—and they had wormed their way in.

This new tapestry would be foolproof, even against the dead. Then she would find the mice and hang them from their naughty tails and find out how to exact vengeance for each and every thing they had taken from her with interest.

This was right. This was proper and in the old way of things. The woman sat there, fingers constantly moving.

She was not old. Or rather, not as old as the tapestry around her. She had made the first layer to hide herself from time long, long ago. Then other layers to seal away things like her heart that it might never bleed, hide her soul that no one could judge it.

Too much, perhaps. In time, it had become a cocoon, suffocating her from the outside world. Now that the layers thinned, the woman was more herself.

Belavierr, they called her.

Belavierr.

She had a daughter.

She had a nemesis who sang.

She had a death who blazed. Two deaths, it seemed.

These things were true and mattered; all else would change. The woman kept sewing, watching the world twist around her, a haze through her veil of being. The tapestry of her soul reflected a battle.

Needles made of every material in creation, from wood to silver to bone to stone, lancing through the air. A cartwheeling figure firing two bolts at her chest.

She twisted a finger, and the fletching should have snapped—but it did not. Each fiber was charmed against her, and the figure had found a way to pierce magic.

Bolts struck home; the woman watched, idly, as blood pooled. Not on her chest, but at the very edges of the tapestry. A body woven out of cunning cloth stumbled and bled.

That it even touched the tapestry was annoying. A sign of weakness. The woman corrected the stitching, removing the bolts with a flick of her hand. Sewed the gaps closed; reinforced the weave.

Vengeance, then. Old as she was, she did it well. Spilling blood into one hand, the Witch of Webs flung the droplets wide, and they bloomed like strange flowers she had seen once. Each edge as sharp as could be.

Shadows dodged around her, shouting. But the woman, the [Witch], simply kept sewing. She was being hunted.

Why?

I remember them. She studied the shattered tapestry of her memories. Oh. Yes.

They were there. She barely recalled faces, but she recalled it now. [Hunters] meddling in her task. The Kingdom of Shades. Ghosts…

An axe struck her tapestry hard enough to make the outer edges shake; it could not pierce the outermost layer. Once more, the woman simply removed the axe, dealt the [Hunter] a blow to shake his bones, and went back to sewing.

They were less than mice. Not a single one had reached the first step of power. They had no age; their weapons were well made, though. Yet the woman paid them no heed. She sat, sewed, and knew not how long she worked, for her task was all-consuming.

Then?

Suddenly, there was flame. A burning man approached her, and the woman threw up a hand, and her eyes dilated in the sudden brightness that pierced the layers of her manifold soul.

What was this? Someone else? A [Knight]?

Yes. She knew him. A burning man, eyes open wide, blazing with a fire carried from thousands of years ago. She saw its very source: the wrath of a long-dead [Paladin]. Flames of faith. Flames of hatred.

Flames born of sacrifice. Such a conflagration that it was burning him alive each second he existed. The man was strong. Insignificant compared to those she had clashed against, but he had reached the first step of greatness.

—And he had turned his achievement into a single vow, a single purpose: her death. The burning man walked towards her, and a sword dug into her tapestry and lit it ablaze.

It pierced the first layer and the second, and the woman reached to pluck the sword out—and the flames burnt her. The fires ate away at her work, and alarmed, she tried to quench the fire with threads made of blood. With wards made of ancient Dragonscale for this very purpose.

He was only a flame. Yet—and yet—

Ser Raim burned. His flames should not have reached her, but they did, racing through holes in the safeguards around her being. Like a torch set to worm-riddled wood, he ignited layer after layer of her web.

Then—the woman felt alarm change to fear. For the first time in an age, she gazed at the man and saw her death coming for her. A true death that refused to catch on her nets or turn away.

“Stop. It will be your end. Have I quarreled with you?”

She whispered, and the man’s eyes only raged hotter. She…did not remember him, but he had the look and likeness of so many. An old bargain or deed, perhaps. It mattered not. Thus, he came.

And the woman called Belavierr began to struggle, now, fighting the flames. For the closer he got—

The more she remembered pain. Now, quick, the Spider scurried. To do battle. A little ember was burning her web. It should not have even been able to catch a spark, but she scrabbled for the scraps of her power. Threw them at her foes, for she did know how to escape and live.

But for her daughter and it would have been easy to flee.

‘But fear not’, whispered the Spider, ‘I know well this killing game.’



——



The air was dark and heavy, but the light that raged in the center of it all was all the brighter, like a bonfire in perfect midnight. Tangled voices, shouting, screams, and the snap of strings faded unnaturally fast, as if all were muffled by a sea of cotton. It smelled like a dry summer’s day, hot, and like charcoal and smoke.

The air even tasted wrong. Old and dusty, like a cough never released for a thousand years. Or longer? A shuffling filled the air as the crackling roar intensified.

“—support Raim! My arrows aren’t even hurting—”

“She’s burning! Back, back! ‘Ware the shadows! I see—”

A woman reached out, and figures shambled out of the darkness. Not from real reality, but from somewhere else. The shadows of her cloak? Another dimension? Their aimless walking slowly became purposeful, as if they had been wandering so long and finally—saw light and purpose.

Who were they? Hundreds, now, marching, now running, metal clattering, trailing broken cloth and thread, mouths agape as the [Hunters] whirled, calling out alarms. One fired a silver arrow straight into the head of one of the shadows, but it kept running forwards until all could see who they were:

Puppets.

Thousands of years ago, they had been given form. Their forms cut from silk, carefully stitched into shapes and connected. And something else had been added. Magic. A half-life that could animate their bodies of cloth and give them purpose.

They looked like soldiers, these puppets. Not like people. They were no Stitch-people with proper anatomy and faces—and souls. These puppets had dead eyes, stern, warlike features, or sometimes even blank faces and crude sockets carved out of wood or painted onto canvas.

Huge arms, long legs—and very real weapons. A [Hunter] with a scissor-sword snipped the arm off one running at him with a spear, and the thing only bled stuffing; he whirled his sword, took its head off, and it kept stabbing until the [Witch Hunter] bisected it again at the waist. Then the legs just fell, kicking.

More puppets rushed after the first, attacking wildly, a perfect little army for some war or other purpose. What purpose that had been perhaps even their creator had forgotten. So the puppets eventually lost their purpose, were stored away. But they remained. Because the one who had stitched them together always had need of things.

She stood as the [Hunters] formed a ring around a blazing man trying to drive his sword deeper into her chest.

The witch’s hands were locked around the burning sword, ignoring it charring her flesh, trying to pull it out of her. Now there was a grimace of pain on her face, but only slightly, as if she had felt a pinprick for the first time in eons.

Yet that was enough to make her eyes open wide, wide. If you looked into those eyes through the interconnecting rings bathed in orange, you might fall into that infinite gaze.

Deeper. Deeper. Into the very depths of her soul. There, you would see her.

She had been a mortal woman once. But such was her skill at thread and needle that she had grasped a truth of her art. All things were connected. And the art of sewing life and fate and magic was only a different technique than physical materials.

Over centuries, she had added to those layers, creating something beyond any spider’s ability. Some of those old wards had failed. Many had stood strong in the face of harm. But for all she had touched immortality, Belavierr had always known of her death. For it was the one thread she could never cut. It was woven into her being.

And now she knew one other truth: nothing was permanent. Dragons fell. Gods died. And now her death had come for her.

Belavierr burned. And as she screamed, her creations charged the [Knight]. They tried to stab him, shoot him with arrows—but the [Witch Hunters], six of them, forced a circle of steel and flesh.

“[We Make a Stand: Fight or Fall]! [Blademaster’s Slash]! Sylind—Phoenixfire arrow! Now!”

The leader of the [Witch Hunters] carved down two dozen puppets with a cut that tore through wood and armor alike, and the half-Elf with a bow plucked a burning arrow from her quiver. She loosed it with a shout.

“[Triple Shot]! Take c—”

The detonations of the three copied arrows erased hundreds of the puppets. The explosions sent mounds of earth and stone fountaining up into the air, and the shockwave itself tossed the puppets around like leaves. Only the [Hunters] held their ground.

“[Dwarven Defence: Granite Formation]. They’re coming.”

The largest one gritted out, holding his battleaxe at the ready. The puppets had no brains to concuss or bones to break. Even if their legs were shattered, they dragged themselves forwards onto the [Hunters]’ blades. But they were so many—one slashed at a [Hunter]’s armor, slowly marking the enchanted leather. Another stumbled past the [Hunters] towards the [Knight]. A crude hatchet made of blood-red crystal raised…

Before any [Hunter] could bring it down, the wooden puppet’s body burst into flame. It tried to swing the crystal hatchet, but it stumbled, turning to ash so quickly that the hand holding the axe fell—and then even the crystal was melting around the man’s feet.

Ser Raim never noticed. He had yanked his sword back and cut at Belavierr’s arm as she deflected the sword with a staff of her own. His sword met the dark ash of her staff and ignited it; two more swift blows and he cleaved through an artifact, unleashing a screaming howl of magic—and then stabbed once more into Belavierr’s chest. With a faint grimace, she yanked the greatsword out and tossed him back a step. Her puppets ran at Ser Raim, and he whirled his sword, cleaving through a puppet made of pale, yellow cloth that refused to burn.

“Keep them off him! Target the dangerous ones!”

A [Witch Hunter] tackled the golem as it staggered, barely cut, and began to knife it repeatedly, and Ser Raim checked himself before facing the [Witch] again. The [Hunters] used his aura as a shield; they drew in closer, letting him burn the weaker puppets by his very presence.

His aura. Ser Raim’s fire was like a beacon in the darkness. The flames that consumed the puppets were burning at the shadows themselves. It seemed anything he deemed a foe was caught in an inferno beyond any ordinary temperature. Steel melted. Magic burned. And when he drove his sword a third time into her stomach—

The [Witch] screamed.

There he was. Standing in the web of her soul, cutting at her protections. The thread burned. He was cutting it all away. The [Knight] burned, his very life the fuel of the flames. He could hurt her. She was dying.

But she didn’t flee. Because the [Witch] was looking ahead. At a single [Hunter] who hadn’t joined the fighting.

Her axe cut a red line into Wiskeria’s throat as the [Hunter] stood there, watching her, eyes blazing with hatred and victory. But she did not pay attention to the [Hunter].

Belavierr did not even remember why she hated her.

Wiskeria was all Belavierr cared for. Belavierr took another step, then turned. She raised a hand and produced a needle of her own, long, like a rapier—and swung it fast.

Ser Raim went to block, but the blow caught him off-guard. His feet left the ground, and his armor and flames caught the blow—it nevertheless tossed him like a fly. Fifty feet.

“Raim!”

The [Hunters] shouted as his aura left them beset on all sides. Belavierr aimed the gigantic needle like a lance to throw as the man tumbled, but the half-Elf snapped.

“I’ve got him—[Recalling Shot]!”

She fired an arrow a second before Belavierr threw. Her arrow struck Ser Raim in the breastplate—and she yanked him back towards them. He came to his feet with a shout of gratitude as the needle buried itself in the ground.

At this, Belavierr’s eyes flicked to the half-Elf, but her swipe through the air missed her target as Ser Raim brought his sword down on her arm.

Rather than cutting it off, he merely knocked it down, and Belavierr grimaced—before stepping back out of the way of another slash.

She was faster than she looked, and Ser Raim’s sword, which should have already mortally wounded her half a dozen times over, only seemed to hurt. But by the same token—Belavierr’s dodge merely carried her into the second slash. The [Knight] smoothly pivoted and cut her across one leg, before slashing her arm.

Swordmaster she was not. Belavierr staggered, then tried to step past Raim. Towards her daughter.

“Keep her back.”

Gaile’s voice was steady as she yanked Wiskeria backwards. Now, the [Witch Hunters] redeployed, screening Gaile and Wiskeria. Belavierr’s daughter was stock-still, staring at Gaile.

She wasn’t breathing hard; she certainly felt the blade at her throat, but she was calm. Possessed when it came to her own life. But when Wiskeria looked at her mother, it was with—disbelief.

As if she didn’t believe Ser Raim’s sword was actually hurting her.

One of the [Hunters] with crossbows shot again and again, downing the stitch-creations that came charging out of the shadows. The sky had turned black. Some of his bolts hit Belavierr, but she ignored them. They cut, but not deeply at her thread. The flame was what burned her.

Another had a hammer and shield. He turned as Belavierr pointed, this time at Gaile.

“She’s summoning bigger ones! What’s—”

This time, a giant puppet came hurtling out of nowhere, and the [Hunter] shouted as an eighteen-foot-tall monstrosity of wood, half-grown branches with dead leaves and glowing amber eyes, hurtled at him.

“[Shield of Defiance]! [Sin of Wrath]. Give—me—strength!”

His feet skidded backwards, but he heaved—and the deadwood giant went stumbling back instead.

Another [Hunter] was firing a hand-crossbow at the giant, blowing chunks out of its face with explosive bolts, when she looked up.

“Tombs of Menorome—spirits! Ghosts! She’s got her own ghosts!”

All the [Hunters] looked up. Now, there were spectral figures, screaming faces and disturbed air, reaching hands—and even a skeletal, corporeal figure holding a scythe.

“We can’t hold back this many! The entire damn Guild couldn’t—”

“Shut up. Truegold!”

The [Witch Hunter] with the scissor-blades stowed his sword, and the one who’d spoken drew a rapier made of bright gold—and stabbed through the first spirit. The thing shrieked, and the gold flashed brilliant ocre where it met the spirit’s ‘body’—and the thing vanished.

“A gift from Ailendamus!”

For all their bravado, the six [Hunters] fell back again. They would have been dead in heartbeats if they were the target of this army. Yet like the puppets—

The spirits feared the blazing [Knight]. Each creation that Belavierr summoned burnt or perished, most before even reaching the man.

Belavierr’s face was a grimace now, one masked by her own blood. She threw another storm of needles at Raim; saw them melt. Next came loping beasts made of stuffed hide, mimicking what they had once been.

A Wyvern with red scales bit at Ser Raim, ignoring his flames for a time, but even the Fire Wyvern began to smolder—one of the [Hunters] shot gaps in its hide, and the stuffing within ignited it like a [Fireball].

That sword kept cutting into her. Belavierr staggered—then her eyes locked on Wiskeria’s face. She ceased summoning puppets. And she began to stride.

“Keep her from Gaile! Keep her back!”

Tagil, the leader of the [Witch Hunters], roared. But his sword failed to deflect one of the puppets, and when the [Hunter] with the hammer tackled Belavierr, trying to slow her, she tossed him aside. Raim drove his sword into her back, deep, and Belavierr threw her head back and howled—

And she stared at her daughter. Then at the [Hunter] holding Wiskeria’s life.

Gaile tightened her grip on Wiskeria. She tried to drag Wiskeria back, then cursed and looked down. Black threads had wound themselves around her boots. Gaile stared at Wiskeria, and her grip tightened.

“Hunter Gaile!”

Raim had seen, and Gaile stared him in the eyes, teeth bared, as Belavierr stalked towards her.

“Wound her, Raim!”

He drove his sword deeper, trying to literally saw Belavierr in half, and the [Witch] kept advancing. She reached out—and Gaile glanced at Wiskeria’s face.

Then the [Hunter] shoved Wiskeria aside and raised her axe.

“This is your end, Witch!”

The [Huntress] struck as Belavierr swung an arm down. On Gaile’s lips was a Skill. She drove the axe lightly into Belavierr’s chest, barely parting the cloth of her robes—

Belavierr’s hand crushed through the woman’s neck, her ribs, and drove Gaile’s body down until it was a crumpled thing of blood and flesh. She reached for her daughter—and Ser Raim’s sword carved a second time through her chest.

Then, Belavierr did shriek once more and whirl away from her daughter. She was wounded. With each second—it seemed as if the shadows around her were parting. As if she were more real, and each blow hurt a bit more. She was…dying.

So was Ser Raim. He was dying too as her immortality burnt away with him. For a mortal could best even that which was immortal, if he had the strength, the will, and the chance. He could slay forever.



—–



They watched. The Order of Seasons in distant Terandria, from the Knight-Commander to the Grandmasters to Dame Talia, her fingers white on her sword. In Riverfarm, the people of the Unseen Empire watched, witnessing the battle of giants. From their isle, the [Mages] of Wistram covertly observed.

The coven of [Witches] watched. So did the fae. From their perches, they watched an old story unfold. All eyes were on Belavierr as she tried to flee, and her daughter watched her mother. Smelled smoke and burning. Heard her mother scream.

One person turned away. She ran as the shadows caught fire. Searching the ranks of the otherworldly host. Ryoka shouted, but her voice was lost by the roar of battle. And no matter how far she ran, she couldn’t approach the watchers. They were here, but not here.

And they looked down, eyes staring past her. On Belavierr, alight with flame, Ser Raim, the [Witch Hunters]. The fae watched with curiously grave expressions, without the glee or amusement Ryoka would have expected. They were bearing witness. Their chatter was audible to only one person desperate enough to hear it.



“Twill she die, I wonder? Look, he cuts her protections deeper with every blow.”

“Aye, but she has more lives to burn. He’s but a man.”

“He’ll take her life because he’s but one man.”

“Aye, aye.”



The maddening talk above her was all focused on Ser Raim. But Ryoka had to know—she shouted.

“Ivolethe!”

The young woman cried out, but her voice was too quiet. This was not her moment. And the watching fae paid her no notice. She ran towards one, begging. Pleading.

“Ivolethe! Is she here? Is she alive?”

Ryoka Griffin called out for her friend. At last, one of the fae looked down at her. A strange person with sharp teeth grinned. And her?—his?—eyes were suddenly gleeful.



“You again. You want to know?”



“Yes! Please!”

Every fiber in Ryoka wanted to turn. It was screaming at her that she had to see. For better or worse, see what became of Belavierr. But what kept her begging, searching for a hint of blue and ice, was friendship. Her lost friend. She pleaded with the fae, and it laughed.



“Tell me. Why should I tell you? Now, begone. We are trying to see.”



He flicked a finger. Ryoka could only stumble away. She kept pleading. But they didn’t listen. When Ryoka heard the last shriek, she had to turn.

Gaile was dead. The [Hunter] lay on the ground, crumpled and broken. The other [Hunters] cried out in fury, continuing to fight. But Belavierr’s voice rose above them, a sound no Human could have made.

She was on fire. They all were. The [Hunters] burned from their proximity to Ser Raim. And they screamed with it too. But they fought. Ryoka saw one drinking a potion as he reloaded. He shot both crossbows, and the silver bolts struck a cloth-Wyvern dropping out of the skies. The bolts blew holes in the Wyvern, exploding with fire. He whirled.

“She’s running! Sylind! Mark her!”

The [Hunter] with the bow and arrow turned. She aimed at Belavierr. The [Witch] was fleeing, striding away as Ser Raim pursued her. Again, each of Belavierr’s steps seemed to take her dozens of feet away. But the fire was still burning her. She looked—Ryoka’s breath caught.

Mortal. As if some of the unearthly nature had burnt away. Even her steps were unsteady as she fled. She turned, her hand flickering, and she raised a cloth shield.

“[Chain Lightning].”

The [Witch Hunter] with the wand aimed it. Ryoka saw a flash—the bolt was caught on the cloth shield—Ser Raim’s blade stopped as it struck the shield. Then it began to burn as his blade drew back. Belavierr struggled, stepping backwards. And the [Huntress] spoke.

“[The Eternal Hunt].”

The arrow flew. Belavierr dropped the burning shield, and dozens of threads as thick as cables tried to ensnare Ser Raim and the [Witch Hunter] with the hammer. The man with the hammer cursed as the threads tried to snare him, and he clutched an amulet, and for a second, he was intangible, walking through the thread. Ser Raim swung, cutting through. Belavierr whirled, and the black horse rode towards her, faster than any horse should move.

The arrow struck Belavierr in the shoulder as she pulled herself up onto the bare horse’s back. She turned, staring back at the [Hunter] with the bow. But the one with the crossbows loosed again, and Belavierr’s fingers twisted. The crossbow bolts snapped on her clothes, which were suddenly harder than stone. She rode, outdistancing her pursuers in a moment, with each second passing hundreds of feet. But the [Hunter] kept firing, aiming at her back even when she was a distant speck.

And then? Ryoka, her eyes wide, saw Belavierr’s head turn. Though the [Witch] was a speck, Ryoka felt the single emotion from her. Fear. Pure, mortal, fear.

She fled, and the others abandoned their pursuit. Ser Raim slowed, and the brilliant, white flames around him vanished. The other two [Hunters] slowed as well. The man with the hammer gasped, his face cut, his armor torn twice.

“Did it take? Did it take, Sylind?”

The half-Elf was checking her bow.

“It—did! The Skill worked! Raim must have burnt her bad enough—I know where she is! We have her!”

She whirled, and the others looked astonished—then the [Witch Hunter] with the wand snapped.

“It’s not a trick?”

“I swear it’s not. We can bring her down. Gaile—”

They turned and fell silent a moment. One of them, the one called Tagil, touched the brim of his hat.

“She bought Raim the time to hurt her. Truly hurt her. A Hunter to her last. Do we pursue now?”

The woman with the rapier stared at the place where Belavierr had disappeared in the distance. She cursed.

“We’re wounded, and Gaile’s fallen. If we lose her now—”

Sylind shook her head.

“I will never lose her again. I told you, she’s marked. We could call for reinforcements. Bring an army or continue pursuit—”

The one with the crossbows tapped Sylind in the chest.

“So long as you live. Right, your life is as precious as Raim’s, Sylind. If we need to, we’ll send you to—where can’t she find you? Samal?”

Sylind pushed the hand away.

“Forget about me, Coroise. Raim. How much of his life did he burn away?”

The others turned and saw the [Knight] kneeling now, flames extinguished, smoke rising from his armor, visibly exhausted after the battle.

The [Summer Knight] was bent as Ryoka approached with Prost, Rie, and the others. Prost called out, and the group turned. Ryoka saw the [Knight] turn to face them and froze.

His armor blazed with the colors of his season. Gold and red and orange. His sword still burned. But the man was different. He had been changed.

“Who are you people?”

Prost demanded. The [Witch Hunters] looked at him. The one with the scissor-blades bowed.

“I apologize, sir, for the danger we have placed you in. I am Foreign Hunter Tagil, leading the other Hunters of Noelictus. We are on a mission of utmost importance on the business of the Crown of Noelictus itself.”

Prost stared at the unfamiliar titles and address.

“The what? Noelictus?”

“Terandria. They’re very well respected. This is an international affair, Prost.”

Lady Rie murmured the words. Her eyes were wide. The [Hunters] besides Tagil barely paid attention to the onlookers. One went to Raim’s side. The [Knight] was bent over. Another ran for the orb on the ground. Ran, not walked. The half-Elf with the bow, Sylind, turned, scanning the distance. The one with the crossbows spoke tersely.

“We are hunting the Stitch Witch, Belavierr. A monster among monsters. If I were you, I’d either get to your homes or just run for the hills. We can’t promise you’ll be safe if she returns.”

“We know. That is—her coven—”

At this, the [Hunter] instantly raised her crossbows and stared at the other [Witches].

“Coven? She has a coven now?”

Tagil snapped.

“Bows down, Coroise. They must be new. Peace, [Witches]! We have no quarrel with you!”

Despite that, he put his hand on the scissor-blades at his side. The [Witches] halted; Mavika’s shoulders were tensed, and she looked exceptionally wary. Her face was filled with wrath, but Tagil glanced at Prost.

“Are you the [Headman] here?”

“No. [Steward] to Emperor Godart.”

Hunter Tagil blinked with genuine astonishment.

“Well, I’d ask you and that [Emperor] to clear the area, sir. We mean you no harm, and this woman might well destroy your homes if she’s left to ruin another place.”

Prost crossed his arms, less impressed with Hunter Tagil’s reputation than Rie.

“We may do that, sir, and I see a noble [Knight] with you. But if you go after Miss Ryoka or any folk here, we’ll be forced to fight, and we have an army.”

Hunter Tagil paused as the other Hunters of Noelictus glanced over at the threat.

“Who?”

Ryoka tensed, looking from face to face, but now she whispered.

“Prost, they’re not the same…”

“Miss Ryoka was attacked by a trio of your lot not a few days back. You don't know about that?”

Tagil half-tuned, and one of the [Hunters] with a hammer actually put up his weapon, swearing.

“Amateurs? Do you think one of the guilds outside of Menorome put Dedicated Hunters on the Stitch Witch?”

“If they did, there will be hell from us to pay. They attacked you?”

Their leader looked at Ryoka, and when she confirmed it, he stood there, then shook his head.

“That wasn’t us. It sounds like another group—we will have our guild look into this. Or it could be independent [Witch Hunters]. It’s not like we’re the only ones with the class. Maybe…”

Maybe someone else had hired them? Ryoka saw Tagil’s look of uncertainty, but before they could dive into the subject, Tagil’s head turned; his eyes flicked to the horizon. Ryoka felt it too. Then she saw movement. The half-Elf murmured.

“Tagil—”

“I see it. Whoever you are, all of you, get your people into that village. We’ll cover you. The Stitch Witch is hurt. But she’s desperate. And she knows we can find her.”

“Raim! I see movement! She’s sending more puppet-things! Lots of them.”

Sylind called out nervously. The [Knight] was moving towards them, supported by the man with the hammer. The [Summer Knight]’s voice was beyond weary.

“The Order. We have her. I can finish her. I cut away her immortality. But—”

“We see it.”

The scrying orb was speaking. Ryoka saw a huge conference table, staring faces. [Knights] gathered in the circular reflection. Ser Raim nodded. Then he pointed. Prost, Rie, Ryoka, all looked up.

“She can die. But she has sent her minions against us. We must track her down.”

Coroise called out.

“Protect Sylind. If she dies, Belavierr escapes.”

The half-Elf glanced sideways.

“Forget me. Watch the daughter. Both of us are keeping her here.”

Hunter Coroise glanced at Wiskeria, and Ryoka felt a shiver run down her spine. But the woman just lifted her crossbows and fired straight ahead at the distant forest. At first, Ryoka didn’t see what the woman aimed at. Then, as both crossbows reloaded and Coroise shot again, Ryoka saw them.

A legion of warriors made of cloth. Not one or a thousand, but tens of thousands. Taxidermy monsters, indistinguishable from their real counterparts. A patchwork giant, as misshapen as a Snow Golem, lurching forwards. And then—Ryoka’s heart stopped.

A Dragon, crawling towards them. But the scales were purple cloth. The creature was fake. But the threat was real. In the sky came howling faces. Half-real things that flickered and made Ryoka want to tear at her ears. The others paled, but the [Hunters] set themselves.

“Looks like bound wraiths. An entire army of cloth monsters. Brace.”

The crossbows shot. Ser Raim gasped for air. He turned, and Ryoka saw that he had burnt himself away. But the ember flickered.

Belavierr’s death coughed. Then he straightened.

“Knight-Commander. A word.”



—–



At the same time as Ser Raim spoke, a woman sat on a throne. Hers was made of wood, but hardly as humble as that of the [Emperor] of Riverfarm. Hers was enchanted wood, yet the paint still chipped in places, because centuries meant even magic began to fail, let alone millennia. But that was not the point.

The throne marked her. And she belonged to it. Her people, who stood in the throne room that was open to the elements on one side of the room leading to a huge balcony, respected the symbol of the throne more than the appearance.

They did not dress like courtiers of a typical kingdom, for their garb was thick, appropriate for the winter, even. But fitting because the open-air throne room was chilly, cold, even in the last days of spring. The altitude was freezing, and snow was not unknown even in the hottest days of summer. This was the court of Kaliv’s kingdom, and it was the nation of Kaliv whose people lived among the highest altitudes. And they were Humans, predominantly.

To the south lay the Eternal Land of Calanfer and Gaiil-Drome, one of the forest-kingdoms who lived in uneasy peace with half-Elf populations, and the north was occupied by the powerful nation of Ailendamus, whose breadth and span was thrice that of all three other nations.

But though all three had been tested, the alliance between Calanfer, Gaiil-Drome, and Kaliv had held back even Ailendamus and six other nations in the last war, Petril’s Folly, which had been twenty-eight years hence. Because Kaliv had settled the high plateaus and a mountain itself. Poor in arable land it might be, but like the Dwarves of Terandria, they had endured any foe who might assail them.

Because of the beasts that were Kaliv’s treasure, export, strength, and weakness. That demanded food, yet they made the nation famous. Griffins. And their counterparts on the ground, giant goats that could be ridden to battle, far unlike their insane cousins, the Eater Goats of the High Passes. Such was their history that their ruler was always known as the Griffin King of Kaliv. Or in this case, the Griffin Queen.

It was not to the Griffins she looked today, but to the latest arrival, who had been borne by Griffins, yes, but unusually, had been carried into the throne room. She stood, ignoring the protests, her protectors and her daughter who had barred the sudden arrivals with blades. The Griffin Queen, Novakya, shouted so her voice might be heard in the cavernous room.

“Let him through.”

He did not approach. But the four men and women bearing him did. The Griffin Queen saw with a start that it was him. She looked down upon her son as they bore him across the throne room. The man was young—in his late twenties.

He was, in his way, the most famous of the royal line of Kaliv. Firstborn of her line, yes, but also for another reason. He was Kaliv’s famous disgrace. An exile in all but name.

The Griffin Prince, Ostevien.

He had not returned to this throne room for years. Not since he had been banished. Now, they bore him in on a sheet of cloth, straight from Griffin-back. Novakya recognized it, the crimson cloth akin to the plainer stretchers that the [Griffin Riders] used to transport the wounded or supplies. But why had they used…? Then she realized the cloth was plain, but the blood had dyed it red.

“What has happened?”

She spoke to the man who accompanied the [Prince]. He stuttered, his eyes wide with panic.

“Queen, he collapsed not ten minutes ago. On patrol. He’s bleeding. We can’t stop it, even with potions. The—we’ve seen this once before. It’s—”

“Move aside! Lay him down—gently!”

The words were shouted by the [Royal Healer], who ran across the throne room. The men and women did, and the Griffin Prince was lowered to the floor. The blood began spreading. His mother looked down.

He was supposed to be banished, never to set foot in here again. But no one would challenge the Griffin Queen’s will. Even so, murmurs rose, and people backed away from the sight of the prince. They all knew why he was banished even if the tale was forbidden to be told to anyone, especially outsiders. But the sight of that blood…

What had gone wrong?

Ostevien was choking, bleeding from his clothing and onto the stone floor. The Griffin Prince could barely move, but he still looked up. And his face was deathly pale as he reached up. The Griffin Queen, Novakya, looked down and reached for her boy, a man grown. But the [Healer] stopped her.

“Potions don’t work?”

“They heal him, but the wounds—”

The [Griffin Rider] pointed, his face pale. Then Novakya saw it. All present drew back save her. The Griffin Queen saw her son bleeding from his limbs. From the stitches that held his arms to his shoulders, his torso, even his neck.

Yet he was Human, not Stitch-person. And Novakya knew. She looked up. The [Healer] had frozen. Then she grasped for her potions.

“The same as eight years ago.”

The Griffin Queen nodded silently as the [Healer] knelt. She said nothing. Her daughter spat as the open throne room echoed with the Griffins’ shrieks as they scented the blood.

“The Stitch Witch. She’s finally decided she has no use for him.”

“Why now? She has never broken an oath.”

Novakya’s daughter opened her mouth, and her mother snapped at her.

“Not once! For all the ill she wreaks, she does not forswear herself. She twists and manipulates, but she keeps her word. Why now?”

The Griffin Prince was choking, coughing on his blood. Spitting it up. Novakya could not look away. No one had an answer. But one revealed itself as the [Healer] desperately brought out her own needle and thread, trying to stem the bleeding from the separating limbs.

She cried out as the thread twisted as she tried to thread it through the needle. It fell to the floor, black, curling. The [Royal Guard] tried to stop their [Queen], but she pushed them aside. And she saw the thread writhing in the blood.

The thread moved, forming into a pattern on the floor. A crest of four parts, so distinctive that Novakya recognized them at once.

“The Order of Seasons.”

“They must have her. They’ve cornered the Spider at last, and she’s desperate. Mother—”

The Griffin Princess looked both triumphant and disgusted. She spared no emotion for her brother lying on the ground. But his mother—the Griffin Prince’s eyes opened. And he spoke in a pained voice as the [Healer] shakily tried to sew his limbs back in place.

“My Queen.”

She jerked. The [Prince] tried to raise his head. The [Healer] snapped at him.

“Don’t! Move and you could lose your head.”

He stopped. But his eyes rolled. The Griffin Queen stepped closer. And his eyes focused on her. He spoke hoarsely.

“My—mother. This is my punishment. For ever trusting her. Don’t give in to Belavierr. If she is using my life, she’s truly backed into a corner. She wants you to assail the Order to save me.”

Novakya’s daughter made a disgusted sound. She drew her sword, stepping into the blood.

“Of course she does. Brother. Say the word and I will end it now. Just as I promised you then! Let her not leave her claws in our kingdom.”

And there was silence. The Griffin Prince breathed laboriously. The [Healer] paused, and the court waited. And the Griffin Queen waited. Her hands were clenched as he inhaled and looked up, his grey-blue eyes wild. He closed his eyes after a second.

“I—can’t. I may yet live. And I wish to live. If Belavierr dies, I will be free. But, Mother. Leave me. Tell Wiskeria I am free at—”

His sister made a sound of disgust and turned. She hurled her sword across the throne room as she stalked away. Her mother just stood there. Thinking. But not thinking. Just watching his blood run across the throne room’s floor. And he looked at her pleadingly. They had not spoken in six years. And then, only for a moment. Not like this.

“My Queen. Mother. Let me die, if it is my time. I have brought you only grief. Do not let her ensnare you too.”

Her disgrace. The fool of a [Prince]. Her son. Novakya knew this was Belavierr’s game. She knew. And still, she reached for him, and again, the [Healer] stopped her.

“Your Majesty, he is falling apart. We are holding him together with potion and thread.”

The Griffin Queen stepped back. The [Healer] was calling for more potions, her assistants. And her son lay there, pleading silently. Not a man or woman in this room didn’t know his story. But none dared say a word, not even the Griffin Princess. They all waited. And Novakya closed her eyes.

How long and how wide was her web? The Stitch Witch, Belavierr. The Spider of Lives. Novakya raised her head. And, oh, how bitterly she admired the way the threads had ensnared her. But she would never choose otherwise. That was what Belavierr had known. Damn her.

Then the Griffin Queen turned. Her cloak swirled, and her breath appeared in the cold air. A storm was coming. She snapped at the nearest [Royal Guard].

“Send a [Message] to the Order of Seasons. By order of the Griffin Queen, I demand them cease their quest for Belavierr’s head.”

The man paused only a moment. The Griffin Queen walked past him. She shouted for her [General]. He was already ready, mounted on the Imperial Griffin. She pointed at him.

“Summon eight hundred Griffin Riders. We fly upon the Order of Seasons’ stronghold. Arm them for battle. Now.”

“Mother.”

The Griffin Prince called her back. His voice was desperate. Novakya stopped and peered at him. Her shoes were standing in his blood. She looked down at him, and her face was distant. Harsh.

“You are a disgrace to Kaliv. But you are also the Griffin Prince. You may not die yet.”

That was what she said. But that was not what he heard. The Griffin Prince sighed. His mother turned, and she called as the storm swept down across the mountains. She swung herself up into her personal Griffin’s saddle. She had known this day would come. And she had known the choice she would make. She looked ahead and swore that would not be the last sight she saw of him.

The Griffin Queen pointed.

“Fly.”



—–



He had seen great battles won. Fought against armies; even dueled Knights of the Thousand Lances and won. Yet, Knight-Commander Calirn had never seen a battle rage so hot so fast.

It had been a true ambush, and against this foe, he didn’t care if they’d caught her sleeping. The Stitch Witch had not been ready for Raim or to face foes who had prepared for her.

That was her arrogance; they’d beaten her once, and Calirn had used a grand ritual to give them the edge this time. So many things could have gone wrong, but still—!

“He wounded her. He actually wounded her.”

The Spring’s Warden sounded disbelieving, for all she had been told it had been done once before. Nothing had harmed Belavierr, none of the other [Hunters]’ artifacts or Skills. And each one was over Level 40.

But Raim? Raim had done it. The cost to his own body worried Calirn, though.

Knight-Commander Calirn stared into the orb. Ser Raim stood there. And he had already changed. He had given himself to the flame as the champions of his class had time and time again. Already—Calirn closed his eyes.

He was dying. Closer to death. But Calirn had also seen Belavierr flee. He had heard her scream. And now—

“She can die. Knight-Commander, she has fled. But we have marked her.”

“How certain are you that you can locate her again, Ser Raim?”

The [Summer Knight]’s voice rasped. Behind him, the five remaining [Witch Hunters] were setting up. Two were already loosing arrows and crossbow bolts. Knight-Commander Calirn knew time was of the essence. Ser Raim’s eyes flickered past him, staring at something Calirn couldn’t see.

“Completely. Sylind has [The Eternal Hunt]. She will never lose her quarry once marked. The Skill didn’t touch her last time; the fact that it worked means I have weakened her protections. Greatly! With each blow, I felt her mortality surfacing. I cannot explain how we strove; I saw a woman within a great web of horrors, but I was slowly cutting towards her. Burning her out of her cage.”

He coughed, and Calirn saw Raim’s eyes flicker. He wasn’t hurt badly; Belavierr had only hit him once, truly, but he looked—well, he had aged years. Maybe even decades.

“Knight-Commander, we can hold against the waves Belavierr has summoned. But we must pursue Belavierr. This village will be destroyed if we do not protect it. I request reinforcements to hold the ground while we advance.”

“There is a legion of cloth golems bearing down on them.”

The Spring’s Warden spoke quietly, her eyes staring past Ser Raim’s head. Calirn nodded. He saw one of the [Hunters] turn and snap.

“Raim. More are coming.”

The [Summer Knight] nodded. He looked back at the orb.

“Knight-Commander.”

“I will consider your request, Ser Raim. A moment.”

The Knight-Commander was a [Winter Knight]. He spoke the harsh words impartially. Emotion could not affect his judgment. He could see the Summer’s Champion, the opposite of his Season, look up, eyes flashing. But Ser Raim only nodded. He drew his sword and advanced past the orb, taking up a position with the [Hunters]. Calirn saw a huge shadow and one of the [Hunters], the one with the bow, Sylind, aiming up—

“Fall’s Sentinel. Do you believe that Skill will locate the Stitch Witch, despite her abilities?”

Calirn looked over at the Grandmaster of the Season of Fall. The Fall’s Sentinel glanced up. The war room held three of the Grandmasters and Calirn as well as two servants. By protocol, the Winter’s Watcher was elsewhere, should they all fall. The Fall’s Sentinel paused and nodded.

“[The Eternal Hunt]. With that Skill, [Hunters] of old could track even Dragons. Getting to them was more difficult, but no magic could protect them.”

“And she is wounded.”

The Fall’s Sentinel nodded, but the Summer’s Champion smashed a fist down on the table they were watching from. The image shook.

“Calirn! Would you leave Raim alone? He has the Witch of Webs wounded! Now is the time to call armies! Signal House Veltras! Send us all—”

Calirn stared at the Summer’s Champion until the furious man broke off. He was raging with fire, echoing Ser Raim’s amazing display. Calirn, though, refused to get riled up.

“Calm yourself, Ser Greysten. Until I saw and heard a lesser Skill working on her, it was my belief Ser Raim might well fail to do enough damage to the Witch of Webs. Now I see he has wounded her? Of course we shall send reinforcements.”

Ser Greysten looked relieved. Calirn rubbed at his beard.

“The only issue is who could reinforce them. We sacrificed any aid we might have from Noelictus or Ailendamus, or her many foes. If we had time—”

“Could we prevail on Ailendamus? They are not friendly towards us.”

The Spring’s Warden muttered. The Fall’s Sentinel raised his brows.

“For the Stitch Witch? Call for one of Ailendamus’ Great Generals! And every Veteran Hunter of Menorome!”

“We have no time. If she escapes—perhaps. But we are to work with what we have.”

Calirn regretted not giving Raim more credit. They should have had more than a brief overview of the terrain. The man should have a legion at his back! However…the longer they gave the Stitch Witch, the more the odds turned against them.

The recent [Messages] addressed to him—and Pheislant’s [King] were proof of that!

Calirn turned. The wide-eyed [Servants] were still panting, holding up scrolls blazing with urgency. Knight-Commander Calirn looked at them. Then at the Spring’s Warden. Her gaze met his. Calirn clenched his fist.

“Kaliv. And the shining kingdom of Taimaguros. I knew of the Griffin Prince. But what hold does the Stitch Witch have on Taimaguros’ [King]? Both have ordered us in no uncertain terms to release or halt our pursuit of the Stitch Witch.”

The Fall’s Sentinel shook his head.

“Anything. Perhaps she gave him life. Or maybe some charm? We should be lucky the Blighted King himself isn’t threatening war.”

Calirn nodded. He looked at the [Servants].

“Any updates?”

One had a scroll. She checked it, and the servant shook her head rapidly. She gulped, looking afraid.

“No, Knight-Commander. Both nations continue to demand the Order abandon its pursuit of Belavierr at once, Knight-Commander. And both…both have roused a large force.”

“How many?”

“Eight hundred Griffins from Kaliv, sir. Thirteen thousand by horse from Taimaguros. Both have set out at once. Towards the Order.”

The Summer’s Champion uttered an oath.

“Eight hundred [Griffin Riders]? Does Kaliv mean war?”

Calirn shook his head. He calmly assessed the numbers. But even his heart was beating faster.

“They would have sent three times that number and a ground force if they intended war. Even so, the Griffin Queen means to assail our order directly. If we do battle, it will be war.”

“For her son.”

“Yes.”

The Grandmasters paused. Calirn studied a map.

“Fall’s Sentinel. Your appraisal? How fast will Kaliv reach us?”

“Three day’s flight from Kaliv’s borders. Or—if the Griffin Queen herself leads, a day’s flight. But she will not reach the order until tomorrow at dawn at the earliest, even if she uses speed-boosting Skills and calls wind-magic to her aid. Taimaguros will be six days even with the best Skills.”

Calirn nodded absently.

“Then we have no time to raise an army, even if one could be sent. Not from Terandria, nor Izril. It truly was the best measure to send so few. Yet Raim is in need.”

Then he glanced over. The Summer’s Champion’s aura was driving the temperature of the room up. The man met Calirn’s gaze.

“It just proves Ser Raim is right. She is desperate, Knight-Commander. Belavierr throws everything she can against the hunters. Ser Raim has cut the thread of her immortality. Give me leave to assemble five lances. I will lead them myself. We can end this.”

The Knight-Commander shook his head.

“You are compromised, Summer’s Champion. As am I. She would turn you against your own comrades.”

The Summer’s Champion looked bitter.

“Not I, then. But the Spring’s Warden or the Winter’s Watcher, then. And every [Knight] over Level 30 we can spare—!”

The Spring’s Warden raised her hand.

“Greysten, Calirn. You have met the woman. Speak to me honestly: can Ser Raim and his party even survive her onslaught? Within moments of being attacked, she summoned enough puppets to overwhelm a hundred [Knights]. I know the Stitch Witch’s legends. What might she bear against Raim before he can reach her?”

That was Calirn’s fear as well. Even if she had been bested once and Raim had weakened her…he stared at the orb. The Griffin Queen promised war. As did Taimaguros’ [King]. But Belavierr—he weighed the costs, the odds of her death. Then, Calirn nodded.

“Prepare the grand ritual a second time! Summon the Order of Spring and Order of Summer! Move!”

The Grandmasters raced from the room. The Fall’s Sentinel was protesting, but he sprinted with Calirn to one of the oldest parts of the Order of Seasons’ stronghold. So old, in fact, it predated the Order of Seasons.

It was a relic of the half-Elven empire that had once called this area home. The room was a giant spell circle, designed for several ritual spells that even Wistram would have trouble emulating. And perhaps more that were yet unknown. One—the ability to walk across a world in moments—was one of the Order of Seasons’ trump cards. And yet—

“Knight-Commander! The cost is too high! We have exhausted over half of my Season performing the ritual once! We cannot do it again so easily!”

The Fall’s Sentinel snapped as Calirn burst into the grand ritual chamber. Calirn saw he was right. The last ritual’s components were still assembled on the floor.

Raw magicore, mana potions—even artifacts and enchanted weapons, scrolls, wands—all lay on the design on the floor. And the magicore was already turning to simple stone. The scrolls were just parchment.

All were spent. The [Autumn Knights] who had fueled the magic were drained, unsteady. Many were drinking mana potions, but they rose as Calirn strode into the room. Racing [Knights] poured into the room, but the Fall’s Sentinel’s voice snapped above them all.

“Gather all the magical items below relic status! Prioritize components and replaceable items first! Knight-Commander—”

“I hear you, Fall’s Sentinel. But the cost I am willing to pay. Even if we must sacrifice a lesser relic.”

The Fall’s Sentinel inhaled sharply, but then he shook his head.

“The cost would be too high. Our order is exhausted, and it is from them that much of the mana is produced. Moreover, you know we cannot move an army, Knight-Commander! The [Witch Hunters] and their gear were bad enough, as was Ser Raim!”

He gestured to the spell circle.

“Moving that much magic across the world took every bit of magic the Season of Autumn could muster, Knight-Commander! It is not a matter of weight—in the confines of this ritual, magic is the true weight! If we had another type of spell—no army. No magical armor! And the Stitch Witch will rip apart any [Knight] not bearing enchanted gear!”

Calirn paused.

“How many with simple steel armor and unenchanted weapons?”

“Calirn—”

The Knight-Commander glared at his old comrade.

“How many, Grandmaster?”

The Fall’s Sentinel hesitated.

“…Thirty-two, Knight-Commander. No one with a powerful aura or whose body is affected by their Skills. No Autumn Knights. That is the only margin we can account for. Any more or anyone with more magic and we will run out of mana. They will fall short of Riverfarm.”

“What of a few individuals who…?”

“No. I could calculate it out, but not on the fly.”

The Fall’s Sentinel folded his arms. Calirn looked back. A [Servant] had the scrying orb. Battle was already being joined. He made another decision and turned. The Seasons of Spring and Summer had flooded the room. They stood to attention, young and old, eyes locked on the combat across the world reflected in the scrying orb. Calirn called out.

“Summer’s Champion. Choose sixteen of your best who fit those parameters! Spring’s Warden—I seek sixteen of your most talented. Let only those who are ready for death volunteer.”

He paused and made a further calculation.

“…Half. Half of each, so eight of Summer and eight of Spring. Each one over Level 30. They will reinforce Ser Raim and hold the ground before bringing the fight to Belavierr. They are to take steel and silver only.”

The Fall’s Sentinel closed his eyes. Sixteen veterans and sixteen young? That many [Knights] would be overkill against a nest of Hydras. For the Stitch Witch—armed with steel alone?

Was this glorious or damned? Only the Knight-Commander could decide, and decide he had.

The Summer’s Champion and the Spring’s Warden only hesitated a moment. Then they began calling names. Calirn turned. Cold decisions. He looked at one of his brethren, a [Winter Knight].

“Send word to the Winter’s Watcher. Lock down the Order. Prepare for combat against aerial foes. Make ready to seal all the entrances for a siege.”

“You mean to defy Kaliv, Knight-Commander?”

“Until war is inevitable, yes. The scrying orb.”

Calirn beckoned. The Fall’s Sentinel turned, and artifacts and magical items flooded the room as thirty-two of the Order of Seasons lined up. Dame Talia stood proudly among her sisters and brothers, tossing her magical gear aside and being armed with plain steel and silver.

Calirn paused. But she was a [Summer Knight], noble blood or not. He spoke into the scrying orb. The [Hunters] were already battling. One had deployed an artifact that was throwing up walls of stone; another was throwing chained lightning from her wand.

“Ser Raim!”

The man turned. Calirn shouted towards him.

“Ser Raim. Reinforcements are on the way! You must claim the Stitch Witch’s head as quickly as you can. You have three days! The Order is about to be assailed by Kaliv. The Stitch Witch has forced their hand!”

The [Knight] stumbled towards Calirn. He was burning, but not from his life-consuming Skills. Calirn repeated the order. Ser Raim’s face was pale. He paused, panting.

“Reinforcements? We accept. We will pursue—the Stitch Witch—I am pledged to—”

He wavered. His face was deathly pale. Calirn’s eyes widened as he saw a huge clothed foot smash one of the stone walls.

“Ser Raim! Behind you! Ser Raim!”

The [Summer Knight] whirled. He saw the cloth giant and raised his greatsword. Then—suddenly—he paused. Calirn bellowed his name, but it was no use. Ser Raim fell without a sound, the greatsword slipping from his hands. The cloth giant turned as a thrown hammer struck it, and the impact sent it reeling back. But it advanced. Ser Raim had fallen. Calirn whirled.

“Fall’s Sentinel! Send them now!”

But the ritual needed time. Calirn turned back. Ser Raim was lying on the ground. Spent. He had used his Skill—he needed rest! He had to finish it! But the cloth giant was bending down, ignoring the spells and arrows blasting holes in its face. It bent—as Calirn watched helplessly, freezing the ground around him—

And a grey hand grabbed Ser Raim. At first, Calirn thought it was a monster. But the giant of a girl was holding a shield and crude leather armor. No—her shield was just a converted wooden door. But she pulled the [Knight] back behind her. She grabbed the greatsword in one hand and lifted her shield—a door of wood—in the other. The cloth giant brought its hand down like a hammer.

The half-Troll girl blocked it. The impact drove her down, with a cry, but her knees held. She forced the arm up and swung. The enchanted greatsword cleaved into the cloth golem, set it alight. The [Hunters] finally severed its head at range, and the girl held her ground. She roared and swung her greatsword, catching a bounding Ghoul and bisecting it. Calirn stared.

“Who is that?”



—–



Durene stood over Ser Raim. The line of [Hunters] had broken with the cloth giant. They reformed it, shouting, as she swung the greatsword one-handed. She blocked a pair of cloth-warriors circling her right with her shield. The sword was light. It sheared through everything with a single cut.

She swung. The flaming greatsword burned in her hands, but the fire did not hurt her. Nor had Ser Raim’s flames. And her eyes held a trace of that same fire. The [Paladin] bellowed, holding the line, while the [Hunters] raced past her.

“Guard Raim! Set up a perimeter! [Hail of Bolts]!”

Hunter Coroise yelled at her comrades as she raised her crossbows. The self-loading magical crossbows raised as he aimed at the purple cloth-dragon charging at them.

Thunkthunkthunkthunkthunkthunk—the crossbows reloaded and shot, the mechanism blurring too fast for Durene to see. The bolts streaked across the ground, exploding and blowing parts of the gigantic dragon to bits. It collapsed before it got within range, but more cloth-warriors were advancing.

There were so many! And they were armed—Durene cried out as one slashed across her side. The blade was ancient steel, but it cut through her armor. Her skin was tougher, and the blade only slashed lightly. Durene twisted, and a hammer crushed the cloth head, smashing the entire creation into the ground. The man with the hammer raised it.

“[Circle of Protection]. Fortress wall strength.”

Durene saw a racing line of bright green—and felt a reassuring presence. The first rank of Belavierr’s creations charging at them ran into a wall and began hammering at it. Undeterred, the man with the hammer swung into them, and Durene did the same.

“It won’t last! Stone walls, there and there!”

Another [Hunter] was raising stone walls with a wand, funneling the enemies. The one with the bow was shooting down flying targets. But there were so many!

“[Quake Blow]!”

The man with the hammer swung and knocked a score of enemies flying. Then he looked up and swore.

“Ghosts! Incoming!”

Durene glanced up. She saw a laughing face, twisted with insanity, a flicker in the unnaturally dark sky—and then something went through her. It passed through her shield, her armor—she cried out as her insides froze. Then she heard an explosion.

The [Archer] with the bow had shot at the spirit. Durene heard a scream as it retreated, but more were flying out of the sky.

“What are they?”

“Spirits. Those are spirits. Not even like the ghosts we’ve seen. Mundane weapons won’t even work on them unless they’re made of silver or a purifying substance like Truegold. Back up!”

The [Hunters] retreated. They began aiming up as Durene swung at the airborne apparitions with her greatsword. They avoided that, but they went through her shield. Durene abandoned it to pick up Ser Raim. She ran back towards Riverfarm, the [Witch Hunters] covering her.

“How many creations does she have?”

“Keep fighting!”

The [Hunter] with the crossbows snapped. She drew a potion, threw it. The explosion of light drove half the specters away. But more were coming. And beyond them—

“Another giant. Dead gods.”

Hunter Sylind lowered her bow. The [Witch Hunters] exchanged a glance. The hammer-wielder bared his teeth.

“No retreat. We’re too close. That village is at our backs! Hold! Hold, damn you all!”

“She’ll come after us when we’re exhausted, Faigen! Raim’s out, and Gaile’s dead. We need to pull back! So long as Sylind lives—”

The [Mage Hunter] snapped as she pointed her wand and shot lightning into the sky. Durene, panting, looked up. Riverfarm was filled with screams. Prost had mobilized Beniar and the [Riders] to hold the entrance to the village. But where was that galloping coming from?

She turned. And then the first [Summer Knight] raced past her. Dame Talia lowered her visor and pointed her sword ahead.

“For the Order of Seasons! House Kallinad and the summer! Charge!”

More riders thundered after her. Knights dressed in the bright of spring, the radiance of summer. They filled the gaps, hacking down the cloth golems as four of the [Summer Knights] charged the cloth giant. Durene caught her breath. She gazed at the unconscious [Knight] on her shoulder. The [Hunters] turned to her.

“Miss! Into the village! Do you have anywhere we can use? We can set up a warding spot until Raim wakes up!”

One of the [Hunters] snapped at her. Durene blinked.

“I—yes! This way!”

She led them at a run towards the newest houses. Behind them, the Order of Seasons was holding Belavierr’s army back. The physical ones, at least. Durene glanced up as someone screamed. More spirits were flying lower. And they looked like faces, caught in some madness of grief or rage or insanity—

“Down!”

The [Archer] raised her bow. But the spirits were flying lower, assailing the fleeing Riverfarm people in the street. They dove as the [Hunter] cursed, trying to place her shot. They flew past an old woman with a pointed hat, chasing a child. The [Witch] raised her hand and slapped the spirit.

“[Deft Hand].”

The spirit had no body. But something smacked it into the air. The [Archer] loosed, and the arrow exploded with light. The spirit vanished with a scream. And the [Witch Hunters] looked down.

Eloise straightened her hat as one of the [Summer Knights] thundered back into Riverfarm. Dame Talia’s eyes were blazing. She spotted Eloise, then did a double-take.

“Another [Witch]?”

“She’s not a target! Hold!”

The [Witch Hunter] with the crossbows halted Talia before she could lower her lance. He turned. But warily. The man studied Eloise. The grandmotherly [Witch] wasn’t smiling as she regarded the battle outside Riverfarm. Or Ser Raim.

“Lady Eloise du Havin. Where is the Stitch Witch?”

Tagil addressed the [Witch] politely. Eloise watched him.

“Gone, young man. And I am [Witch] Eloise. I haven’t used that other name in years.”

The [Hunters] tensed. The man with the crossbows paused.

“I see. Does your coven intend to stand with the Stitch Witch, then?”

Eloise paused. She glanced around, meeting Durene’s eyes a moment. Then she shook her head.

“My coven will decide whether they stand with her or not. I have already given my answer, but the others have not. Now, let us protect this village. Put the [Knight] in a safe place. He’ll wake soon. He’s just tired. If he means to end Belavierr, he had better do it soon. She will try to kill the [Hunter] who marked her by any means necessary.”

“And if they choose to fight? This coven of yours? What then?”

Talia snapped, still blazing with battle-fever. Eloise glanced up at her. And then she looked at Ser Raim.

“If they do, you had better bring ten times as many of your sisters, Miss Knight.”

Her eyes glinted under her hat. Dame Talia almost lowered her lance until she realized how small the [Witch] was, and how elderly. Nonetheless—

[Knights]. It was a small force, but sixteen of them were veterans, and it showed; one was pointing a finger.

“[Aura Fireball]. Dame Erreid?”

“Younger [Knights], to me! We will hold them before the village. [The Hurricane Begins].”

Another [Knight] pointed, and Ryoka’s head whipped around as the wind began blowing against the army of puppets coming their way. But most of the [Knights] not setting themselves for battle were just around Raim, guarding him with shields raised.

“There’s a curse coming. I have it. [Shield of Valor]—”

One of the [Knight] pivoted, as if trying to block something headed towards Ser Raim with his shield. He had an amulet around his neck made of gold and jade, like an egg held in delicate chains of Truegold.

Something rippled through the air. The [Summer Knight]’s amulet turned black—melted—and a hole opened in the ground. Faster than anyone could react, a hand, black and clawed, reached up—grabbed the [Knight]—and pulled him down.

He screamed once. The other [Knights] recoiled, and Talia went pale.

“Ser Johnsten? He—he was over Level 35!”

“He’s dead. Those curse spells will chew through any artifact you have. Sylind, we need the Hunter’s Haven up now.”

Tagil snapped, and the [Hunters] abandoned their fighting. Talia was staring.

“Ser Johnsten?”

One of the senior Summer Knights elbowed her aside, eyes intent on Tagil.

“Hunter Tagil, I am Ser Turric, and I place the lives of my company under your command and Ser Raim’s. What are your orders?”

“If another curse comes—block it. We have a safe spot, and it’s likely the Stitch Witch is only coming after Raim and Sylind. Sylind’s your second priority. She can track the Witch of Webs—ensure neither one is harmed.”

Tagil snapped, and Turric nodded. Sylind broke in.

“And the daughter. Where is she?”

At this, the [Hunters] and [Knights] turned, and Coroise, the [Witch Hunter] with the crossbows, looked around and snapped.

“You! Halt!”

Her crossbows rose, and Wiskeria, striding towards the forest, glanced around. Tagil swore, and Coroise fired her crossbow.

A bolt sprouted from the ground in front of Wiskeria. The [Witch] hesitated—took another step—

“Take her legs out.”

Sylind had drawn an arrow. Tagil snapped as he yanked her bow down.

“Are you insane? That’s our one hold over the Witch of Webs—”

“So don’t let her get away. There’s no time to be nice!”

Coroise nodded. The [Knights] hesitated, but when they glanced at where one of their number had been, Ser Turric went thundering at Wiskeria. Coroise aimed her crossbows, and Wiskeria tensed. She dove—

A string snapped on one of Coroise’s crossbows, but the [Hunter] fired the other one instantly. Wiskeria flinched.

Califor caught the bolt bare-handed. She blocked Wiskeria off, saw Turric riding down on her, and whistled.

Instantly, Turric’s warhorse whirled about and galloped the other way. The cursing [Knight] tried to order his steed about—then leapt from the saddle.

“Don’t move!”

Sylind and Coroise both trained their weapons on Califor now, and the other [Witch Hunters] whirled. Tagil drew his scissor-sword.

“Witch. I don’t know what hold Belavierr has on you—”

“None, thank you. But she is part of my coven. And you are threatening one of my fellow witches. Lower your weapons.”

The [Knights] and [Hunters] saw the coven—at least, Hedag, Eloise, and Mavika—behind Wiskeria. Alevica and Nanette were with Riverfarm’s people.

Four [Witches] didn’t intimidate the [Knights]. Nor the [Hunters]. Sylind shouted.

“By the Hunter’s Guild of Noelictus, we are after an enemy of nations! Don’t force us to kill you. This is not a hunt where we’ll take chances.”

Califor’s reply was level, like steel.

“Then I suggest you lower your bow, Miss Hunter. Leave Witch Wiskeria out of this.”

“She’s one of our only ties to Witch Belavierr.”

Tagil muttered. Talia nodded and hand-signaled the [Knights] from her order. Califor exhaled.

“I know exactly who Belavierr is. Her fate is one thing. You are endangering this village, [Knights] of the Order of Seasons, Hunters of Noelictus. If you are true to your class, do not put innocent blood on the line.”

That drew them up short. Ser Turric hesitated, and Tagil swore.

“Who is that [Witch]? Coroise, easy, easy—”

Another [Hunter] muttered.

“One of them is the Witch of Flocks. Mavika. Watch out—if they take her side—”

One of the [Knights] called out towards the coven.

“We won’t harm the daughter. Give her to us, Witch, by order of Pheislant. This matter concerns a true monster.”

Califor’s voice snapped.

“Then leave her daughter out of it. I will not warn you twice.”

The standoff between the [Knights] and [Hunters], with the forest erupting with Belavierr’s minions, was ludicrous. A waste of time. The [Hunters] glanced at each other. They had no time for this.

So Sylind and Coroise fired, and a third [Hunter] waved her wand.

“[Ray of Paralysis]—”

The [Knights] charged on foot since their mounts wouldn’t listen. Califor grabbed Wiskeria, tossed her to Hedag, and the other [Witch] shielded Wiskeria in her arms.

It was fast. A crossbow bolt, an arrow, and a ray of magic went straight for Califor’s chest. All three failed to touch her.

Three crows flew, and three crows fell. Two dead; one paralyzed. Mavika screeched, and Ser Turric, running at Wiskeria, looked up—

A clawed foot smashed into his chest. He drove a sword into the claw but froze as the giant beak of a primordial bird snatched up another [Knight] and held the squirming figure. Mavika, transformed, did not bite—but two red eyes stared at the other [Knights].

One of the [Hunters], the one with the hammer, had run at Wiskeria. Califor had intercepted him mid-stride.

“[Sin of Wrath]. Strength!”

His charge could knock over a giant. Califor grabbed one arm as he went to knock her aside—and tossed him.

It looked as though he were lighter than air as he went over a rooftop. Sylind nocked another arrow, then cursed; her hat was over her face!

Eloise had her own hat over her eyes. A spell glanced off Sylind’s armor; blind, she dodged two of Alevica’s shots as the Witch Runner sprayed magic—the [Knights] blocked it with their shields.

Califor pivoted as a [Spring Knight] charged her. She raised her staff, struck the man’s shield—and all of Riverfarm heard a sound like a gong.

The reverberation was deep and old—and the [Knight] was pressed down by the blow, buried up to his waist in the earth. The trees wavered in the distance, and Tagil stopped as Califor pointed her staff at him.

“Hunters. Knights. We are not your enemies. Do not force this battle. Touch Witch Wiskeria and I swear I will wake the river. You cannot best this coven and the Witch of Webs. We will not get in the way of your vengeance. But I swear this: harm this village or the other [Witches] and I will be your enemy. I am Witch Califor, if that name means anything to you. Do not make a mistake.”

A silence fell as Tagil halted, and the struggling [Knights] or ones eying the massive bird-Mavika halted. They looked around for orders, and Tagil glanced at Wiskeria—then lifted his hands.

“Back up.”

“Ser Tagil—”

Ser Turric protested as if he weren’t currently being crushed by a giant bird. Tagil snapped.

“Sylind’s got the mark. Do you want to fight multiple [Witches] over Level 40? Back up. We don’t have the time for this.”

Slowly, the [Hunters] lowered their weapons, and Mavika spat out the [Knight], who landed with a loud clatter. The huge bird turned and appeared as a limping [Witch], scowling, who had blood on one foot.

Califor nodded to Mavika, breathing hard, but motioning to Wiskeria. She addressed the [Knights].

“I mean what I say. Riverfarm is innocent of this quarrel.”

Dame Talia was furious; her horse had refused to move for her throughout the entire fight, but red-faced, she pointed at Witch Califor.

“If you aid Witch Belavierr, know you will be marked by every kingdom of Terandria, Witch!”

Califor barely glanced at her.

“Save your energy for the Witch of Webs, Dame Knight. She is going to unleash everything upon you. I will give her the same terms as I gave you. Keep Riverfarm out of this.”

She whirled, and the coven backed away as the [Hunters] looked at each other. Tagil strode back to Ser Raim.

“Get the Hunter’s Haven up. We’re lucky she didn’t curse us all to death. What’s—”

He looked up, and Sylind spun and began shooting arrows.

“Belavierr’s shooting comets at us! Black comets!”

The fighting resumed as the [Knights] dragged Ser Raim away. Durene was trying to cover their retreat. And throughout all of this—

Ryoka Griffin ran after the fae.



——



She couldn’t catch them. Not the fae. No matter how hard she ran. They didn’t even seem to move. But they were distant. With each step, she was further from them. The wind wouldn’t carry her. She couldn’t run like the wind. So she called out to them.

“Wait. Please?”

They laughed at her. But their eyes didn’t linger on the mortal girl. They turned. Following another gathering.

The coven, minus Nanette, found Belavierr sitting under a lonely tree. Wiskeria picked up her hat and stared at Ryoka. Somehow, the City Runner was there first. Despite the cloth warriors that marched on Riverfarm, attacking everything they saw. The [Witches] had been forced to fight past them, all but Wiskeria.

When they saw Ryoka, even Califor looked taken aback that the Wind Runner was here. But Wiskeria had only a glance for her. All of her attention was fixed on the huddled shape at the base of the tree.

Belavierr. Smoke still rose from the [Witch]’s clothes. And her dress was still ragged, torn from battle. She was sitting. And she breathed. The air rasped through her lungs. Wiskeria uttered a word.

“Mother—”

Califor stopped her. The senior [Witch] stared at what Belavierr held, and she shook her head.

“No closer. She has a jar of spirits. She’s unleashing them. Witch Belavierr, a word? Now.”

Now, Wiskeria saw the flickering around Belavierr. Faces. Shadows despite the day. She heard faint voices. Some called her name.

“A what? Spirits? That’s old magic. They don’t exist anymore.”

Alevica shivered and tried to grin. But the flickering, half-real shapes flew towards her, and she raised her wand. The things avoided her spell. No—the ray of burning fire passed through them. And they flew at the coven.

Dragging. Calling Wiskeria’s name. They pulled at her, freezing her body, trying to force the dagger out of its sheath. They circled Alevica as she swung at them, taunting, laughing at her magic. Mavika they avoided. Hedag they swarmed around, screaming her sins. Califor raised her wand, and the light blossomed—

Light. It was the first of spells. But the [Witch] shaped it. She conjured a sword out of it and swung. And the ghosts fled, screaming. Califor raised her wand. And the light shone bright.

Belavierr looked up. The ghosts abandoned her, Ryoka, and the coven. The Stitch Witch pointed, and they fled past them. Towards Riverfarm. Gasping, her insides cold, Wiskeria took her hand off her belt. She saw Alevica jerk. The [Witch] had been aiming her shortsword at her own neck. Hedag breathed slowly, loosening her grip on her axe.

Even Mavika seemed disturbed. Califor put one hand out. She spoke as if Nanette were here, but seemed to be confirming something herself. Shaken, but her voice was still steady.

“In ages past, [Witches] consorted with such things. Now, they are far fewer. So few that even bound ghosts are rare. The afterlife is empty. Thus [Witches], [Shamans], [Summoners], and all of our kind suffer for it. I should have known you of all women could summon some, Witch Belavierr.”

For the first time, Belavierr seemed to remember Califor. Her voice was a rasped wheeze.

“They…are old. Not true ghosts. The deadlands empty. You. Have you come to aid me? Fellow [Witch]. Daughter?”

Her eyes lingered on Wiskeria’s throat. The [Witch] still felt the cold axe digging into her flesh. She raised her hand to the healed wound. But it had been magical. So a scar remained. The potion hadn’t healed it.

“Mother. Who are those [Hunters]? Who is that [Knight]? Why are they hunting you?”

She knew. She didn’t know the exact details, but she knew. And she waited for her mother to give her a non-answer. For that vacant expression. That timeless expression that Wiskeria loved and hated. But Belavierr’s eyes were steady. Present.

“Enemies, Daughter. I had many when my plans fell to ash. These are more, seeking to finish their task. You must flee. I do battle here.”

She raised her hand, and Wiskeria felt her calling more magic. It ran through the ground, pulled at the shadows. Magic far beyond her, so much of it that Wiskeria felt sick. She had never seen Belavierr using this many spells.

The ground near Belavierr’s feet began to move. Alevica eyed it and stepped back. Califor did not. She ignored the hand that rose as it unearthed itself, clawing its way out of the soil. She stomped on the rising Draugr’s hand. Her voice was sharp and direct.

“To my knowledge, the [Hunters] and [Knights] pursue you for the crimes you have committed, Witch Belavierr. Do you deny why they seek vengeance?”

“I am hunted. It happens time and again. I do not remember why. The burning man I recognize. He was at…at…the village. Where is the [Singer]? I will kill her and rip her throat out too.”

Belavierr hissed. Califor ground her foot down as the earth tried to rise up.

“Witch Belavierr, you are endangering Riverfarm. Take your battle elsewhere.”

Belavierr ignored her. Wiskeria was just staring at the huddled [Witch]. She reached out, hesitantly, and there was a hiss. Eloise grabbed Wiskeria’s fingers.

“Burnt. Almost down to the bone. She’s still burning like an ember.”

Wiskeria grabbed her hand, face pale, as Alevica fumbled for a potion. Califor kept speaking.

“Witch Belavierr, do you hear me?”

Belavierr had gone back to summoning. More gigantic figures broke the earth. Ryoka stared at vast undead, super-zombies, but Wiskeria had no attention for the undead, spells, or anything else. Just her mother.

“She’s—she’s actually hurt. They can’t kill her, can they? Nothing can kill her.”

It was the most ludicrous thing to say. And yet—Wiskeria didn’t seem to believe Belavierr was hurt. Mavika’s eyes swung to her.

“Any witch can bleed or die.”

“Not her. Not—Mother? It’s just a death, isn’t it?”

The Stitch Witch blinked. More corpses dug themselves out of the earth. Belavierr had a needle in hand, and she was stitching them together. Now she paused and looked back at Wiskeria.

“Daughter. This death burns through my tapestry of self. The mice nibbled too greatly…it will be death or I, as ever. As always. I am not without…means.”

She tried to rise, fell backwards, and then seemed to remember Califor again.

“You, Witch. You are of passing skill. And you…”

She looked at Mavika.

“Aid me and I will grant a great boon. Witch to witch.”

Mavika hesitated, but Califor leaned forwards.

“You did not hear me, Witch Belavierr. I said: this is not our quarrel. I will not judge your deeds in Noelictus since I was not there. Tell me honestly and swear it on your hat: do these men and women have no cause to hunt you?”

“All have a cause that is just to them. Always. Even the lowliest rat.”

Belavierr sneered, sounding annoyed for all her voice rasped in pain. Califor shook her head.

“Then I will not aid you. I warn you a third time: endanger Riverfarm and we will be at odds.”

Belavierr stared blankly at her daughter until the words seemed to permeate through to her. Then she looked up with an expression of actual anger and incredulity on her face.

“You? You are threatening me?”

Hedag leaned on her axe.

“Not just her. Keep your creations away from the villagers, Belavierr. Or I will be forced to fight against you. I am Hedag, and they are under my protection.”

The Witch of Webs didn’t even look at Hedag as she locked eyes with Califor.

“Begone, witch of one name. I have met a thousand Hedags. I have butchered Hedag for getting in my way.”

“Then you know I mean it.”

Hedag’s voice was soft. Califor inclined her head.

“Do not endanger them, Belavierr. I say this for your daughter’s safety as well as your designs.”

The two [Witches] stared at each other. Hedag raised her axe slowly, resting it on her shoulder. In the end, Belavierr’s roaming gaze jerked away from Califor.

“Daughter. Daughter…I remember pain. I am closer now. With each layer unraveled, I miss you more. Strange.”

Belavierr turned back to Wiskeria, and the younger [Witch] looked at her, lost for words. Then stammered.

“You—you came back for me.”

“Yes. Your life was in danger.”

It was a simple equation to her. But it filled Wiskeria’s eyes with tears. And Belavierr saw. She reached out and paused. Staring. Then a finger reached out and did not touch Wiskeria’s cheek for fear of burning it, but captured one of the tears. Belavierr inspected the puff of steam and Wiskeria’s face. And then she glanced around.

Mavika. Ryoka. Wiskeria. The fae and the rising dead. Belavierr lingered on Ryoka for a moment, and then turned back to Wiskeria. She hesitated for a second. And she seemed so tired.

“My daughter. There is little time. I must do battle. I am hunted. But I ask one question of you. Would you see me dead? Do you wish it?”

The question hurt Wiskeria. She clutched her hat, her tears running down her face.

“No, Mother. I don’t. I don’t—!”

Despite it all, not like this. Let it not happen this way. Wiskeria shook. And then she saw Belavierr straighten. She smiled, and the great hat rose. The Stitch Witch looked past her daughter, towards her death. And she relaxed.

“That is well. Then go, my daughter. I will escape this death as I have others. Go.”

“I can’t leave you—”

But the black horse was already riding towards Wiskeria. She felt her clothes tugging her towards it. Belavierr gestured, and Wiskeria flew. As gently as if she were a child, settling onto the horse’s back. She clutched at her hat, shouting.

“Mother! Let me stay!”

Yet she was already being carried away. Wiskeria wept as the tall figure disappeared. And then she rode past giants. Creations of old cloth. And she realized she hadn’t known her mother well. If Wiskeria had her craft—she wept.

And then Belavierr turned. To the young woman who had seen it all.

“Ryoka Griffin. Tell me of my daughter’s heart. Does she…know of my love for her now?”

“I think so.”

Ryoka peered into those ringed eyes. And she saw a mortal woman there. Just a flicker. Belavierr nodded. And Mavika stepped forwards. Her flock of crows and the single raven flew high overhead. The [Witch] regarded Belavierr. And the Stitch Witch looked at Mavika, questioning. The Crow Witch spoke.

“You are being burnt away. That [Knight] has the means to burn your magic itself. All your protections and wards are useless before his fire. He will turn himself and you to ash. And they have marked you.”

“Yes.”

Belavierr sighed. Mavika paused.

“If you ask it, my flock and I will give you half a day to flee.”

All eyes swung towards Mavika, and Califor opened her mouth as if to object, but then closed it. The coven waited as the Stitch Witch wavered. She was tempted. But her eyes swung back to Ryoka. And they flickered.

“ If I do flee, they will come after my daughter. Mavika, is that so?”

The Crow Witch paused.

“She is of our coven. She was of my coven. We would protect her. But she may be a hostage or be forced to flee herself. This [Emperor] is not here, and this order of [Knights] is powerful.”

“I see.”

“Your answer, then?”

Belavierr’s head turned. She stared across the moving land. Past the undead that walked, the spirits screaming through the dark skies. Towards a young woman riding back towards her village. Still gazing back at her. Belavierr sighed.

“For her, I would give it up. My magic. What I possess. Even life. Not my craft, but I would gladly face my death.”

Mavika looked up. And she nodded once.

“I see your true nature, Belavierr the Witch. May you meet fire with craft and stitch.”

She turned and disappeared, flying past the dark shapes. Hedag, Califor, and Alevica retreated as well.

That left only Ryoka. She watched Belavierr. And then fled. The Stitch Witch stood alone. And she kept watching her daughter until Wiskeria was out of sight.

Then Belavierr turned. She felt pain. She knew her death waited. But not yet. She called on her magic, summoning them to her aid. But it would not be enough. So she cast one last spell, whispering into the night.

And that night deepened into a war at Riverfarm’s boundaries.



—–



Ryoka Griffin was the observer. She had a thought, briefly, to help someone. Whom? Belavierr?

She didn’t know the crime for which the Witch of Webs was hunted. Nor did she know whether the [Knights] or [Hunters] were the good guys.

If anyone was. All Ryoka knew was that she wished it were not—this.

Blood and fire. [Knights] riding around a strange, slanted house a thousand paces out from Riverfarm.

“They set it up too close.”

Califor snapped when she returned. Nanette was with Durene, and the half-Troll girl had been fighting. Durene panted.

“They said they couldn’t get too close to the forest. Miss Califor—it’s like the end of the world!”

Her eyes were round, and Califor paused.

“This is what happens when a Great Witch dies. For better or worse, she’s the last one of old. What has she sent?”

Nanette replied as Durene just opened and closed her mouth.

“Curses—until they put up that house. It must be a relic, Miss Califor! And—and undead by the thousands! And puppets! And spells! There were comets raining down, and a giant snake made of magic—”

“There are barely thirty [Knights] out there. Spells picked a few off, and the Hunters. I’ll grant you, the [Hunters] are all strong. Each one might be Named-rank level. But how are they surviving that? Califor, I’ve never seen fighting so fierce, and I’ve seen great [Mages].”

Even Eloise seemed uncertain. Califor just strode to the drapes.

“[Witch Hunters] are specialists. They’re armed with top-grade artifacts, and some of it looked closer to Relic-class. Where did they get Truegold?”

Eloise’s hand moved, as if snatching at the air.

“[Tea Gossip]. They said they worked with Ailendamus. A great spellcaster…”

“Hrm. As for the onslaught, the Order of Seasons is supporting their [Knights]. Belavierr’s magic is a mess; the flames might have destroyed many of her better weapons. Despite that—look.”

Califor pointed, and Ryoka saw an advancing line of puppets approaching ten [Knights]. Even if two were tossing fireballs, they were outnumbered hundreds to one. However—as they watched, red lights flickered over the row of puppets.

“What’s that—”

“[Mark Target]. The Hunter’s Guild of Noelictus. Their Guildmaster must be sending support.”

Crossbow bolts began raining down, many of them exploding and sending the puppets flying. Same for the larger monsters; a cloth-Wyvern went down as more crossbow bolts struck it, launched from distant Noelictus. Alevica whistled.

“They truly want her dead. What did she do?”

Califor had no answer, and Wiskeria just sat there.

“But she’s not going to die.”

The coven looked at her. Wiskeria gazed around and, for the first time, seemed uncertain, lost.

“She truly won’t. She’s my mother. She…I’ve never even seen her hurt. I wanted her to die when she—I’ve thought of it and even dreamed of how to do it. It’s impossible.”

“And now the hour comes, do you wish it?”

Witch Hedag knelt, and Wiskeria’s mouth opened and closed. Nanette hugged her fiercely.

“No one should want their mother to die! Miss Califor, is Witch Belavierr that awful? Can’t we talk to the [Hunters]? Does she really deserve…”

She looked up at her mentor, and Califor’s voice was calm.

“Yes.”

Nanette looked up at her, eyes big and staring. Wiskeria’s head rose, and Ryoka saw Califor wearily adjust her cloak and staff.

“Yes, Nanette, she is. No, I doubt words could work. Each man and woman who came here lost something to her. Does she deserve it? Does anyone deserve anything? I will tell you this, Nanette: if I were not raising you, if I had known she yet lived and if her crimes in Noelictus were as heinous as I suspect, I would have gone there myself to put an end to it. If I even had a chance of besting her.”

Califor looked around the room and at Wiskeria.

“It would be folly for you to interfere, Witch Wiskeria. If you do, I cannot protect you.”

Ryoka waited, but Califor gave no further instructions. If—Wiskeria sat there. Paralyzed, Ryoka thought, with fear. Uncertainty.

And outside—her mother sent worse still.



——



Ser Raim was awake when Ryoka returned. The undead didn’t touch her. Nor did the warriors made out of cloth, armed with ancient weapons. They fought and broke on the [Knights] who held the field outside of Riverfarm.

The Order of Seasons charged and held, some of the unhorsed [Knights] fighting on foot. They wouldn’t have held alone. But the [Hunters] fought too. Ryoka saw magical explosions tearing up ranks of advancing cloth warriors, the [Archer] loosing and bringing down the spirits in the sky.

It felt like a dream. Neither side bothered with Ryoka as she approached the strange house, a slanted, almost deliberately lopsided structure, like a tall hunting lodge, standing in the middle of the grass. Apparently, the Hunters of Noelictus had summoned it.

Slowly, the Order of Seasons drove back the cloth creations. Until their ranks dwindled. Then came zombies. Undead. But fewer. The [Knights] drank potions, and the [Witch Hunters] fortified their position.

With magic and Skill. And the house was the most impervious thing of all; Ryoka saw a bolt of crimson lightning zap down from the heavens, hit the house, and fizzle out of existence.

Riverfarm was a lot less confident about their walls. The entire village was boarded up behind Ryoka. Shutters closed. Riverfarm was silent, afraid. But the house the [Hunters] had created was safe. Needles lay around it, so many that Ryoka had to cover her feet to even approach the door. As she did, more needles, some as large as javelins, flew out of the dark evening. They struck the house, bouncing off the sides. Cloth ropes like snakes twined closer—lost their magic. Failed.

The young woman entered the house through the front door. It was unlocked. She heard a voice, saw a gathering. The [Witch Hunters] were there. They had taken their fallen comrade. Ser Raim was on his feet, and so were Prost and Rie. Ryoka heard a low voice.

“This is a Hunter’s Haven. A portable place to fight from. Warded against any foe. Even Belavierr’s magic would fail here. She is trying, hunting Sylind. Keep all of your people indoors. If you have any needles, any sewing equipment—throw it outside! Those needle storms are aimed at us.”

One of the [Hunters] was addressing Prost and Rie. His crossbows hung at his sides. He looked up as Ryoka entered—the crossbow was in his hands in a flash. He paused as he saw her.

“Who are you?”

“Ryoka!”

Lady Rie exclaimed. The [Hunter] lowered his crossbow a bit. Ryoka glanced around. She tried to answer the [Hunter]’s suspicious questions. Rie and Prost’s urgent queries. But her eyes were on him.

A female [Knight] had joined Ser Raim and the [Hunters]. Her armor was scratched, the colored steel deformed. But she was alight with passion.

Ser Raim was not. He stood over Gaile. The female [Huntress] who had wielded the axe and threatened Wiskeria’s life lay on a long table. Her arms had been folded. Her eyes were closed. Belavierr had crushed her, but her friends had done as much possible to make her presentable.

Ser Raim looked upon her and bowed his head.

“She threw away her honor to strike a blow against Belavierr. And I believe she would have forsworn herself had the Stitch Witch fled. For one of the Foreign Hunters of the Hunter’s Guild of Terandria, she disgraced her status and legacy.”

He stared down at the woman’s face. Gaile’s expression was still set in death. Ser Raim bent, exhausted. Someone offered him a chair, but he stood.

“And yet, I knew Gaile. Gaile the [Beastslayer]. Gaile, who became [Witch Hunter] for vengeance. For six years, we have sought Belavierr. And were it not for her actions, we might have lost her again.”

“Was it justice, then, Ser Raim?”

The female [Knight] was confused. Ser Raim glanced up at her and shook his head.

“Neither, Dame Talia. She did wrong. She threw away her honor, and I would have cut her down if I had to. But. She was my friend. And she had every right to her fury.”

He bowed his head. And he spoke to Gaile.

“Your death will not be in vain, Gaile. I swear, I will bring her down.”

Then he straightened and staggered. Hands reached for him. Durene’s. Talia’s. Raim caught himself and shook his head.

“I’m fine. Just exhausted.”

“You’ve burnt your life away. The backlash will continue. The Summer’s Champion and your Season agrees—you must rest before doing battle again.”

A voice spoke from a glowing orb to the side. Ser Raim turned, and Ryoka saw a man dressed like winter in the glass. Ser Raim nodded once.

“I understand, Knight-Commander. But Belavierr is assailing our position.”

“Let your brethren handle it, Ser Raim. Rest. You must end Belavierr. And soon. If you lack the strength—”

“No. I have at least twenty more years to burn. So long as we can find her, she will not escape the second time.”

Ser Raim sat. And Ryoka, drawing forwards, saw how he had changed. He was aged. He might have been in his thirties before the battle. But now—his hair was grey. His body was still hale, but now it was lined, as was his face. Ryoka saw him sitting up, brushing off one of the other [Knights] trying to treat him.

Thirty years. It seemed like he had burned thirty years away in less than thirty minutes. The man in the orb, the Knight-Commander, spoke directly.

“If you should fall—”

“I will not. I will cut away the last of Belavierr’s protections. I saw them, Knight-Commander. A dark web. I will lead the other [Hunters] against her. They have the means to end her. Together, we can defeat her.”

“Bring the reinforcements we have sent you. They will hold tonight, but at least the [Summer Knights] will be able to give battle on the morrow. They stand ready to aid you, Ser Raim. With their aid, you may still keep a decade or two—”

“No.”

Ser Raim’s voice was flat. He looked up, and his gaze still burned.

“If I sought to live, Knight-Commander, I would not have volunteered to hunt Belavierr. I will end her tomorrow, even if I must burn away. All the [Hunters] and I are resolute. My brethren may battle the Stitch Witch’s minions, but we must end her. They are not specialized for combat against her, and none bear magical weapons.”

“Ser Raim! I am a [Summer Knight] like you. I may not be able to conjure your fire, but I can enchant my weapon to flame, plain steel or not!”

Talia protested. The other [Witch Hunters] snorted as they glanced up from their quiet preparations. Ser Raim shook his head.

“Dame Talia, you misunderstand. It is not about fire. It is about piercing Belavierr’s defenses. I have cut half away. But she is still half-immortal. While she is such, every blow we deal her is useless. The [Witch Hunters] with me can cut her threads, and I will burn the rest. But if you stand against her without the right precautions, she would turn you into a puppet and use you against us.”

“I—”

Calirn spoke coldly.

“Dame Talia, enough.”

Talia bit her lip. Knight-Commander Calirn studied Ser Raim. His eyes flickered past Raim.

“The Stitch Witch continues her attempts to stop us in Terandria. You are certain this…haven will stand?”

“Certain, Knight-Commander. The [Witch Hunters] employ it against enemies capable of magic. So long as the Order continues repelling the undead Belavierr is conjuring, we will be safe from her magic within these walls.”

“Can you bring the battle to her now? After a few hour’s rest?”

Ser Raim hesitated. It was one of the Hunters, the one with the wands, who shook her head. The woman was checking her arsenal of wands and snapped a reply.

“Night is the worst time to hunt a [Witch]. She can use illusions or summon spirits if there are any about. Raim is also exhausted. We wait for dawn. Is that a problem?”

“…No. Act as you deem most fit, Huntress Erashelle. But are you certain you can both locate and trap Belavierr tomorrow?”

The [Witch Hunters] paused. The man with the hammer nodded.

“She’s wounded. She can attempt to flee, but we have her location. While we are on the hunt, even her speed will fail her. She cannot escape Sylind’s Skill.”

Sylind nodded. She was checking her bow.

“I can feel her. Not six miles distant.”

“Six miles? We could ride against her now—!”

Talia shut up as Ser Raim glanced at her.

“Unless a [Hunter] leads, she could outrun you, Dame Talia. Again, it will not be easy. I must gather my strength. So long as I burn, her magic fails around me. Paladin Arteis gave me this chance; I will wound her mortally this time. It was like piercing an armor of sludge. Now that I have removed most of it, I can see her naked heart. The [Hunters] will end it if I cannot and support me. We will work alone. As a team. You must guard our rest.”

“I understand. Forgive me, Ser Raim. Leave the field to us. We are armed, and Riverfarm supports us.”

Dame Talia’s cheeks were red. She looked questioningly at Durene. The half-Troll girl nodded.

“I’ll help. Beniar and his [Riders] are taking out anything that gets past you. Except for those giant things, we can beat all those undead.”

“She’s weakening already. Those first legions were ancient. Now she’s summoning undead. Still, if we hadn’t had Raim burning half of them away, she might have overwhelmed us just with those.”

One of the [Hunters] murmured. The others nodded. Everyone stopped and glanced up. Ryoka felt a thump. Talia strode towards the window. She swore and charged out the door. Ryoka saw a huge shape in the darkness. Then a bloom of fire. Durene barreled out the door as well. Rie paled.

“What is that?”

The [Hunter] with the crossbows glanced up. She took a step towards the door, and Sylind stopped her.

“Coroise. Save your bolts. The Order of Seasons has it.”

Hunter Coroise nodded and sat back down. She began disassembling and cleaning her weapons, placing one crossbow on the table and checking the enchanted parts piece by piece.

“Undead. She’s sewn together Flesh Abominations and raised Ghouls. I saw a Rotfield Giant, but our Guildmaster is raining down bolts from home.”

Sylind grunted.

“The first good use of all that money wasted on indulgences and…”

She broke off, bowed her head.

“This one is for all the [Hunters] who died for her. Each damn one, Tagil. We’re actually here. I only wish the [Singer] was with us.”

Tagil clasped her arm, wordlessly, and bowed his head too. He hesitated as he turned back to the others, and his eyes were remorseful. Ryoka saw him flick back to focus after a second—but she wondered what they had done to get here.

“—Even so, be prepared. Belavierr has more creations still.”

Rie paled. But Prost just nodded. He gazed warily towards the windows.

“The magic she’s throwing against you all. Will it truly not get in?”

Tagil’s smile was bleak, but his tone was reassuring.

“Hostile magic fails in this place. Even Ser Raim’s fire is hard to use here. This is a place for [Hunters]. We know our craft, Steward. Raim, you should get some rest upstairs.”

He gestured, and Raim nodded. However, at this, Sylind, the lone half-Elf [Hunter], protested.

“We’re a doubly large target with me and Raim here, Tagil. Can we move him to a warded room in Riverfarm?”

“What?”

Prost and Rie were horrified, and Tagil hesitated before shaking his head.

“The Hunter’s Haven is the most secure building we have, Sylind. Better to stick together and have Raim under one roof.”

“Or—we can ward a house. Let’s grab Raim’s hair and a bit of blood and fake his presence. The Stitch Witch can attack this place all night. If it falls—Raim will still be able to fight. If he’s here and she takes it—”

Tagil was shaking his head, adamant.

“The moment Raim sets foot outside that door—what if she sets her minions on him and we can’t reach him?”

Sylind snorted.

“If she’s weak enough for my Skills to work on her, I don’t think she’s perfect, Tagil. She didn’t kill Raim; she’s sent a few killer curses, but she can’t pierce the Hunter’s Haven. We can ward him just as well.”

Erashelle sat upright as the other [Witch Hunters] gathered. They knew their trade well.

“She’s right. If we set up all our charms—hey, who’s got one of those artifacts we got from Ailendamus? Let’s arm Raim to the teeth. He might burn up his life tomorrow, but all we need is to get to tomorrow.”

The rest of the [Hunters] thought it was a good idea to split Raim off—if they could find a home.

“I cannot endanger Riverfarm, [Hunters]—”

Prost began to object, but Rie cut in.

“What about Durene’s cottage? She wanted to help, and even if she can’t fight—it’s not the best made.”

Sylind shook her head.

“If it’s got a roof, we’ll turn it into a castle with magic. Tagil, this is perfect.”

“No. Raim, I think it’s best we stick together. I can’t force you, but—”

Tagil addressed Raim. The [Knight] looked up wearily.

“With respect, Tagil, I don’t think I can sleep with all the sounds of fighting here. And even if you all need to distract her, if some [Knights] could act in your stead?”

Calirn spoke quickly from the scrying orb, having listened to the entire argument.

“Indeed. Two [Summer Knights] will guard your rest. Dame Talia—”

“—has gone to join the battle. I will leave her to it.”

Calirn’s voice snapped.

“Absolutely not. Fall’s Sentinel, contact Talia. Have her return at once! She is to stand guard and—”

Ser Raim got up slowly, ignoring the rest of the discussion. Tagil was still trying to talk him out of it urgently, but the [Knight] was grey-faced with exhaustion. He walked towards the door, hesitating, and Ryoka opened it. She held out an arm.

“Here. I’ve got you. I can take you to Durene’s house.”

Raim frowned at Ryoka as Tagil reached out to stop them—then gave up with a huge sigh. The [Knight] murmured.

“I thank you, Miss. Who—who are you?”

Rie murmured Ryoka’s name for Raim’s benefit. Ser Raim paused. He stared at Ryoka. Then he nodded.

“Directions would be welcome, Miss Runner.”

He tried not to lean on her, but Ryoka ended up supporting a lot of his weight until they got to a horse. In the distance, more fire bloomed, and [Knights] rode to battle. But Ser Raim rode away from it, towards Durene’s cottage. Ryoka was braced. She didn’t know if Belavierr would assail them. If she did—Ryoka was ready. But nothing attacked them.

It seemed the [Witch Hunters]’ charms—well, high-grade artifacts, really—did work. Raim smiled weakly at Ryoka.

“You needn’t worry. If I needed to, I could burn away any weak spells. I’m tired. But my aura is strong as ever. And we have the resources and preparations from hunting her in Terandria. Noelictus. Great allies have given much for this day.”

Ser Raim reassured Ryoka as they rode—well, he rode and she jogged—towards the cottage. He frowned vaguely at her.

“Tagil mentioned you’d been attacked.”

“Not by your comrades. Someone else. Maybe the Circle of…they weren’t nearly as dangerous as your friends.”

Ryoka didn’t suspect Raim or the Hunters here were part of the group who’d nearly killed her. Their vibe was entirely different: focused, like an arrow. Raim simply bowed his head.

“I am sorry to hear it, either way. My friends will do whatever it takes to complete the hunt, as you saw…but you are not the Stitch Witch’s daughter. That some would attack you—I can swear by my Order these are unknown [Hunters] to me. The ones with me are the finest Hunters one could find in this entire world. Even among the Veteran Hunters of Menorome, they stand out. If there are…miscreants claiming their authority or misbehaving, they will track them down. After this is done.”

That might be something. Ryoka didn’t envy the kidnapping Hunter running into this group, if he was even alive. She felt like pointing out taking Wiskeria hostage was very close to trying to off her, but she decided against it. The facts seemed to be that there were at least two [Hunter] groups wandering about—and this one was the most dangerous by far.

Conversation lapsed until they got to Durene’s place.

Someone had let Durene know Raim needed to sleep there. The half-Troll girl hurried out with Bismark and Frostwing; Raim barely blinked at the bear and blue bird.

Ryoka couldn’t take her eyes away from his grey hair and lined features. He was so old now. He glanced at her as she led him towards Durene’s house. Entered it as two [Summer Knights] rode towards them. Ser Raim waved them away. He sat down inside.

“I have a few artifacts they told me to set up. My bag of holding. Would you help me with…?”

He handed Ryoka a stack of talismans. Like Japanese ofuda talismans. Then what looked like bright orbs of glass. They hung around the room, swaying. Flickering.

“Bad magic?”

“Her spells. Those charms are Drathian. You don’t need to worry about my safety. A [Witch] like Belavierr is powerful. But she must have my hair or some possession of mine to curse me. And even then, these wards work. Her magic is not all-powerful. It is ancient. But not—”

Ser Raim coughed. Ryoka found herself making tea. He sat, sipping it. He sighed. Then he gazed at her again.

“You know the Stitch Witch. And you’re here to argue for her life.”

Ryoka froze. But the [Summer Knight] didn’t reach for his blade. She hesitated.

“I—want to. I’m not here to attack you. Just—I’ve met Belavierr. Talked to her. She didn’t offer me any deals, but I’ve…seen her.”

“Strange. She rarely talks to anyone that she does not want something from. I’ve searched for her for years, and she rarely talks to anyone. Save for her victims. Then again, she was different when we cornered her last. Weakened before we even attacked. A heartening sign; it means she’s vulnerable.”

Ser Raim coughed. Ryoka nodded once.

“I’m—different. Wiskeria’s also here.”

“Her daughter?”

“Yes. Your friend took her hostage.”

“Gaile. But for that, Belavierr might have fled.”

“Yeah.”

The two sat in silence. Ser Raim waited. Ryoka burst out at last.

“I haven’t seen her commit any terrible crimes while she’s here. I’m sure she has. But Belavierr doesn’t seem evil to me. Just amoral.”

She paused, flushing.

“I’m sorry. I know this is stupid to argue with you—”

What was she doing? But Ser Raim didn’t bristle. He just sat back and sighed. When he spoke, it was quiet.

“Do you know what she did in Noelictus?”

He set the tea cup down quietly on the table and watched Ryoka. The Wind Runner swallowed.

“No. There are rumors flying everywhere in Izril, apparently. Witches have been attacked, but no one knows what happened. Not even her daughter or Califor.”

Raim’s brows rose.

“Really? It should have been covered up. Someone has been talking for news like that to reach…I was there. I did not see all of it, but enough. Do you…this is far from Terandria. Izril. I can scarce believe it. Do you know what ‘Helpful Servants’ are?”

“No.”

“Ah. Then I must explain. In Noelictus…in the nations thereabout, there was a growing trend of these—‘Helpful Servants’. Men, women, who would sign up for this unique class and job. For a day, a week, you could rent one. They would cook, clean—servants for rental, you see? Always pleasant, always hard working. Always. Extraordinarily cheap. Ever smiling.”

Ryoka felt a chill. Wait, that sounded so incredibly suspicious and—and—

“Belavierr did that? Wait, how did no one sense anything was off?”

Ser Raim coughed again and sipped more tea. Color returned to his cheeks, and Ryoka realized Eloise had given her the tea. Was Eloise against Belavierr? Ryoka remembered the conversation about Rehanna and grew more conflicted.

“Oh, some did. But Belavierr had allies and ways to protect herself. Most never noticed the incongruities. Magic of her level does that. I will not sully your ears with the whole tale; I am tired, and it is not mine to tell. There was a [Princess], a very strange [Singer], ghosts…”

His eyes closed wearily, and he almost smiled.

“I was a rather broken man until one gave me a spark. But I did witness what she did. Those Helpful Servants were prisoners in their own minds. Helpless, bound by a contract they signed.”

“But—but they agreed to it willingly. It was a deal.”

Raim’s eyes opened bitterly.

“Oh, they agreed to it. I doubt any knew what they would be subjected to. I have seen the likes of that bad contract by unscrupulous [Merchants] or in black market deals. A contract can be fair under the law and cause maximal suffering, Miss Griffin. Believe me—they suffered. We liberated many, but the harm she caused was the work of centuries. She killed scores, scores before we drove her from there. That is the woman you would like to defend.”

He looked at Ryoka, and she wanted to disbelieve him. Yet Raim’s tone was entirely knowing, and he continued.

“I am sure you have seen some…good she does. Especially if she cares for her daughter. However. She does evil as well. Half of our number have lost someone to her. I lost my heart, my fiancée. Gaile her daughter. Coroise has lost three fellow [Hunters] to Belavierr. The rest bear her no love. Some are in the hunt for the glory of it, like Faigen, who wields the hammer. Or because they see Belavierr’s crimes as unforgivable, like Sylind, the [Archer]. The [Mage Hunter], Erashelle, is of that mind, although she may also desire Belavierr’s artifacts. Tagil does. But he would use them for the good of his family, and in truth, the reason matters not. We have hunted her for decades, and those six were all who remained. Now? I will finish it.”

He paused. And the lights flickered from the ward-spells. Raim looked at Ryoka and shook his head.

“—So please, save your breath. I am committed to her death, and I have paid almost all the price. I hope you will watch her die, and you may think me a fool or a monster of my own for killing her. I shall be entirely grateful if you never have cause to understand why I came here.”

Ryoka had no answer to that. She could only hang her head.

“I’m sorry. I didn’t know she did—all that. I wish I had seen. Not that I want to have been there, but so I could judge. I just feel like she’s something old and ancient and, yes, terrible. But seeing that die…she’s Wiskeria’s mother.”

Ryoka thought of Teriarch, closer to Belavierr in his way than Ryoka was to the Witch of Webs. She tried to get this all to the [Knight] without going into details, and Ser Raim did look at her kindly, but that deep flame in his eyes never wavered. His voice grew stronger as he put down the empty cup, beginning to stretch; it seemed he intended to sleep in his armor.

“I understand your reverence for history, Ryoka Griffin. I mourned the loss of immortals of another kind in Noelictus. I shall also readily admit: in the past, my Order slew Dragons. They followed their natures, like Belavierr. But some burned and killed, and we deemed them a threat. It matters not. Tomorrow, I will burn, Ryoka Griffin. Burn with all the enmity I bear Belavierr. My grief, my love for my lost heart—all of it, I will deliver her. Nothing can stop me.”

And that was true. Ryoka had nothing else to say. Exhausted as he was, tired, she saw Raim’s eyes flash. He burned still. And the last ember was waiting. Waiting to flare and die.

To slay Belavierr. Ryoka could not tell him it was wrong. She could not argue for Belavierr. So she stood. She bowed to Ser Raim.

“I’m sorry. I wish I could wish you luck. I only—”

She couldn’t finish her sentence. Ser Raim smiled.

“Thank you.”

She left the house. Quietly. And Ryoka gazed up as the night grew quieter. Even the undead attacks on Riverfarm were slowing. She searched for the fae. But they had vanished. Powerless, Ryoka left the two [Summer Knights] standing guard. She walked through the streets, lost.

“Ivolethe.”

She looked for them. But the fae did not reply. Nor could Ryoka find them. Because they did not hang about Ser Raim as he wearily rested. They were too busy watching the battle.



—–



The pitch-black night and the war between Spring, Summer, and the Stitch Witch’s minions left sleep for no one but Ser Raim.

The lone Hunter’s Haven was a besieged castle, and the puppets and undead pressed forward in waves, despite the support from the Hunter’s Guild and Order of Seasons.

Step by step, the [Knights] gave ground. Fighting. Dying.

One of the [Spring Knights] fell, fighting a giant made of cloth who crushed their armor. Another created a vast bonfire that only went out when a comet as black as night’s sand struck it.

Was Belavierr winning? The Hunter’s Haven let the [Hunters] fearlessly fight from its sanctuary, but the shrinking circle of [Knights] forced them to dismount, fight amidst the walls of magic.

Did the Witch of Webs deserve this?

Yes. If any story of her was true, she had earned this death. If anything, should the other [Witches] have joined hands to kill her?

Mavika had offered to help Belavierr escape. In the end…

“A [Witch] is selfish. You are the greatest of the living [Witches]. The one who lived where legends fell, Belavierr. Not the most deserving or the best. But the one who would not die.”

Witch Califor wished she could have had a proper conversation with the Witch of Webs. But she supposed all ants looked the same to the woman.

You lost perspective the more powerful you got. Califor knew that. She looked down and saw a cluster of the rookie [Knights], led by Dame Talia, trying to fight a single Draugr on foot. The massive hulking undead was sending them flying, battering forward to slam against the Hunter’s Haven.

And more undead were spilling forwards. Not just the controlled puppets, who fought with asymmetrical grace, but undead. Mindless. Unled. Belavierr was a fine [Necromancer], but the undead were trying to kill everything living.

Talia Kallinad fell on her back as the Draugr stomped on her, trying to cave in her armor. Califor watched.

Young men and women, who fought like they were invincible until the day they learned they were not. Easy foes for one like Belavierr, who had broken youth and will against her true power.

—But Califor liked to think she had never forgotten how much that mattered. She had warned the [Hunters] and [Knights] not to put her against them.

Now, she wished they had asked her to join them. She had her apprentice. But she also had her principles.

The undead. Califor watched from above as the Draugr was knocked back a step from a bolt. The [Knight] scrambled to put her back to the door to the Hunter’s Haven as her comrades fought around her. And the Draugr?

The Draugr stared blankly at the Hunter’s Haven, crossbow bolts sticking out of its face, huge gashes in its side. Then the undead turned and regarded the village behind it.

A village of countless souls. Far more valuable to an undead, which lived only to kill, than a handful of [Hunters].

The undead began to lumber towards Riverfarm proper. Califor, watching from the top of one of the houses, saw an arrow strike it in the head. Then she heard screams of alarm, and Beniar and his [Riders] set themselves behind impromptu barricades in the village.

There was the brave girl, Durene. And Hedag. They saw more undead shifting their way.

Beniar, a brave man, was no [Knight]. He was not near the levels of the Order of Seasons, and the undead were shifting towards the village. Hundreds. Too many for a single Hedag to best. Califor shook her head.

Below her, she knew, Nanette was probably peeking out the windows, terrified—but brave enough to have her wand ready. The Wind Runner, Durene—would Wiskeria fight her mother’s puppets to defend this place?

“I warned you, Belavierr.”

The Stitch Witch didn’t even remember her name. Witch Califor sensed her attention elsewhere, on some other scheme. So Califor straightened her back, rolling her shoulders down, keeping her neck aligned with her spine.

Good posture. Enunciate your words, Nanette. Now—look up.

Califor’s faded cloak swirled around her as she lifted it. The wind was blowing across Riverfarm, and it carried her voice as she raised it.



“I have worn you a thousand days.

Each time you were my relief

From rain, from fog

From prying eyes and wretched blade

Oh, friend. One last favor I crave.

One last time—remind them of your name.”



The battered cloak around her shoulders caught the wind, and Califor caught it and drew it across the air like one would close a curtain.

It was…heavy. The fabric was worn; even magic could wear until the stitches were so faded that they were soft and fragile. The patterns had long since been lost, but sometimes, it still looked like a shadow slithering softly through the world.

Nanette loved to brag about it, but it was a riding cloak, a comfortable one, ninety-nine days out a hundred. And sometimes?

The Cloak of Balshadow strained in the night air. It warped, and Califor whispered to it as a little girl poked her head out of the windows. As the Wind Runner looked up, Hedag lifted her hat, and the villagers cried out in fear.

“I’m sorry. And thank you.”

Then—the force pulling at the cloak was too much. It tore away in the air, leaving Califor with only a fragment. She reeled backwards, caught herself—and looked down.

—The undead streaming towards the village of Riverfarm halted. The onslaught of bolts from above, as the eyes of the Order of Seasons and Hunter’s Guild watched, slowed a second, and alarm shot through those distant watchers.

Even the [Knights] and [Hunters] halted a moment. Their foes, puppets and undead alike, milled around, suddenly aimless, easy prey. The ones headed to Riverfarm stopped, looked around, and saw…

Nothing. To the folk of Riverfarm, gazing around, and even all but the best [Hunters], it was as if a…shadow had fallen across the landscape. A veil that swallowed the houses, people, and held them in a soft cloak of night.

Califor let the last scrap of the cloak fall from her hands and stumbled, weary. She almost fell—but an anxious Nanette tried to climb out to catch her.

Witches Alevica and Mavika had to rescue both, and Califor slid down the roof and climbed back through the window. Outside—the armies of the dead were flailing, trying to get at the Hunter’s Haven, and Belavierr’s gaze swung back towards Riverfarm in sudden wrath.

I warned you. Califor closed her eyes, exhausted.

“Nanette. Stop fussing. It was a beautiful cloak. I told you not to brag about it.”

“But—how did you—the entire village?”

Alevica spluttered. Califor opened one eye, then winked it at Alevica.

“It’s just sympathy. Let it be worth something.”

Perhaps it only meant one or two silly [Knights] would live. Perhaps it had changed everything. Califor closed her eyes. She wondered what outcome Wiskeria was hoping for.

Thus, Ser Raim slept, and though more minions appeared, the [Knights] regained their ground until the [Hunters] themselves elected to rest, guarded by both shadow and their Hunter’s Haven.

Still, the fae watched. They were not watching Ser Raim that night, nor the Order of Seasons who did battle. They waited elsewhere. Watching something else.

One of the oldest stories. And they wept, then.



——



Night had fallen. Ser Raim slept, guarded. Outside, the onslaught against Riverfarm had slowed. But the Order of Seasons remained vigilant, patrolling in every direction, cutting down Belavierr’s minions. And the Hunters rested in their house.

There were five left. Sylind, the [Archer] who had marked Belavierr. Coroise, with her crossbows. Tagil and his scissor-swords. Faigen, with hammer and shield. And Erashelle, their magic user. As night passed deeper and deeper, they grew more watchful.

They might have slept. But they were alert. Each time the ward-charms flickered, they looked up. But they were guarded well. Even so, all knew that if Belavierr struck, it would be now. Now, or the next day, as they drove their quarry into a corner. So they stayed alert. Vigilant as they partly rested. Each had been on longer hunts, so they guarded their strength. Tended to their arms.

They did not speak of Gaile. Or of Ser Raim’s fate. They were resolved. After a while, Sylind went upstairs to the second floor of the slanted house. There were few rooms, but she sat upstairs to meditate and check her arrows. After a while, one of their number, Tagil, joined her.

Sylind glanced up as he stepped into the room and sat across from her. She said nothing for a while. Neither did he. At last, Sylind spoke.

“You don’t have to watch over me. I’ll shout if I see anything. Her magic won’t work here.”

“Perhaps. But I have seen our havens broken. She could penetrate the wards.”

The female [Archer] raised her brows.

“If she does? I have all my gear on. What magic could bypass our wards and have the strength to kill me?”

“A powerful blood spell. I’ve seen it done before.”

Tagil crouched. His gear was simple, but Sylind saw the dozens of concealed, magical pockets in his armor. Her eyes even saw his equipment, a fortune’s worth. It made him one of the best [Hunters] in the Hunter’s Guild. And he was specialized for his task. As was she, but he was her senior. She shifted uncomfortably.

“Don’t get sentimental near the end of the hunt, Tagil. You’re twice the veteran I am. We won the greater battle on Terandria. If we fail now…there’s no excuse.”

It was unlike Tagil. But the [Hunter] had to be feeling the same nerves she did. Belavierr had fled. They had hoped to take her. Sylind felt like the Stitch Witch was watching her. But she would not fall. So long as Ser Raim stood against Belavierr, they could bring her down. Tagil shook his head absently.

“Those [Witches] were monsters. But Belavierr is older than all of them. Age is strength for [Witches]. And her web is widest of all. She puts her hooks into everyone. Everyone from the Griffin Prince of Kaliv to the Knight-Commander of the Order of Seasons.”

“You heard what the Knight-Commander said? Are they really going to assail the Order of Seasons? Can Belavierr really threaten them? The Knight-Commander himself and the Grandmasters? How can she do that?”

Tagil shrugged.

“She has the hair of one of their loved ones, perhaps. If they came against her, she would kill them. Perhaps she is trying, but failing. The Griffin Prince is different. He made a pact with her.”

“Really?”

She had heard the rumors. But Belavierr was made of rumors. Tagil nodded. He was watching as Sylind unstrung her bow. They were different, he and she. She used a longbow, and she had trained for over two decades to obtain her ability and Skills.

Tagil had practiced as well, but most [Hunters] used a crossbow; Veteran Hunters had ones enchanted to reload automatically. Sylind was placing her arrows on the table to organize them for tomorrow’s battle.

Different skill sets, both geared towards the same job. But she was a [Deepforest Huntress], adapted to hunting all kinds. He had one quarry. And his unrest bothered Sylind. What did Tagil sense? The [Hunter] shifted. After another break, he spoke again.

“The share of the bounty. Do you know what I’ll do with it?”

Sylind looked up from inspecting her magical arrows with a frown.

“It goes to your daughter, won’t it? If you’re worried, Tagil, we swore an oath. Gaile’s money will go to her relatives. If she has any. Regardless. Even if we fail—your share goes to your daughter. The Order of Seasons will make sure of that.”

Tagil didn’t say anything. Sylind paused.

“She’s sick, right? Not even the best [Healers] could cure her.”

“Yes. They can delay the sickness. But not cure it. She’s…tomorrow, if we bring Belavierr, that could change things.”

Sylind nodded. She wondered if Tagil had tried the Healer of Tenbault, a local celebrity. Yet if they defeated the Witch of Webs, even more doors might open. Belavierr was worth more than gold. Wistram had promised treasures to the one who slew her. So had Roshal. The Order of Seasons, the Hunter’s Guild…she could respect Tagil’s motivations.

Then Sylind had a thought. She checked a stone set in her bracer and spoke casually.

“I know the Hunter’s Guild investigated this. But…was your daughter’s sickness magical? Did Belavierr curse her somehow? You’d never have been allowed on this team if so, obviously—”

Her hand lingered near her bow. Tagil didn’t seem to notice. But of course, he did. He paused.

“No. Her sickness isn’t magical. Or if it is, Belavierr had no hand in it. That I’m sure of.”

The stone flickered. Sylind sighed and relaxed. Abashed, she attached the bow to her back and spread her collection of magical arrows on the floor, inspecting them.

“Sorry. Just jumpy.”

Tagil’s eyes flickered. He was silent for a long moment, and Sylind thought he had taken offense. But then he sighed. He looked up at her.

“You’re right, Sylind. Belavierr never touched my family. But I met her once during the attack on her village. Remember when I cornered her? I didn’t escape; she captured me. And she made me an offer then.”

Sylind froze. The bow dug against her holster. But now it was behind her. Tagil sat still. And his eyes locked on hers. The [Huntress] hesitated.

“You turned her down, of course.”

Tagil didn’t reply. His sword hung at his side. Sylind’s heartbeat quickened. Her hand slowly crept forwards towards her arrows. Tagil watched her. He spoke. Haltingly.

“I thought she was going to threaten…she saw right through me in a second, Sylind. She could have threatened me. Maybe it would have worked, but she didn’t have to. My daughter is very sick, Sylind. Even if she’s cured, the sickness has worn her away. Even the Healer of Tenbault couldn’t cure that. I actually got her a meeting and—the spell failed. I’d given up hope, and I was ready to die. Then Belavierr looked me in the eyes and made me an offer.”

“Tagil.”

“I wish I could believe she was lying. But she’s the Witch of Webs. She can do almost anything. If the deal is fair. Believe me, I hesitated. Believe me.”

“Tagil. Don’t do this. You turned the offer down, didn’t you?”

Sylind’s hand paused. Tagil watched her. And his eyes were full of grief. He shook his head slightly. Neither Hunter moved. But now her eyes were on Tagil’s side, where his iconic scissor-swords hung. He’d commissioned them to fight Belavierr.

“The offer was never for then, Sylind. It was for now.”

“You don’t have to do this.”

“I know.”

Sylind paused, her body untensed, deliberately relaxed, sitting across from Tagil, but her eyes were on his face. Just searching him. Lost, suddenly.

“Did it even matter? Going home? Searching for years and years? Teaching those rookies like Haeight and the others? Actually—this is the only chance anyone might get in thousands of years. I get it, I do. I’ll help with your daughter. We do this, and [Kings] and [Queens] will be in our debt. Is it worth it? Tagi—”

He moved, and she twisted, reaching for her bow, lashing out with a foot to stop him drawing his sword—

The crossbow bolt struck her in the chest. Her protective charms exploded. Even so, the half-Elf’s arm rose, and she fired a single arrow past him—he fired the crossbow again at her face.

Slowly, her body slumped to the floor. Tagil lowered the crossbow and stared blankly at Sylind. He was a sword-expert; she’d expected the blade. He’d kept this crossbow hidden for this moment.

“I’m sorry.”

Coroise was in another room upstairs, woken from sleep. She’d heard the sound but looked to him for confirmation.

“Tagil. Did something get—”

His sword went through her chest, and she began to move with the strength of the damned—he flicked the blade straight up. Then Tagil headed downstairs. Fast. The last two would be…

Erashelle and Faigen peered up from where they sat. Faigen raised his hammer. He was treating it with a compound of silver dust. He frowned.

“Tagil, what was that s—”

The [Hunter] raised his crossbow and one he’d taken from Coroise’s body. The two [Hunters] dove. Tagil fired twice. Faigen howled as the bolt caught him in the throat. Erashelle screamed. Tagil dodged as she pointed her wand. Faigen was charging, breathless, blood running down his chest.

“[Hail of Bolts].”

The crossbow fired again and again. Faigen jerked as the bolts hit him. Again and again. But he kept coming. Even after they found his heart. Tagil backed up. Faigen collapsed, falling onto him. Tagil stepped to one side. Then rolled. He aimed his crossbows. Fired once. Twice.

Erashelle was still alive. The first bolt had gone through her ribs, but it had missed her heart. Both of her hands were nailed to the wall. She kept trying to cast a spell as Tagil walked towards her. He aimed the crossbows. But she was already dying. She spat blood, the bolts blocking her magic.

“You—traitor. Damn you.”

“I’m sorry.”

Tagil’s eyes burned. He looked at her. She spat. Her lung was filling. She coughed, choking the last words out.

“I hope you suffer forever. If there’s anything—hope you—”

Then she died. Tagil stared at her corpse. Then at Faigen. His hands shook. He dropped the crossbows. The [Hunter] fell to his knees as bile filled his throat. His tears lasted as long as Erashelle’s blood kept dripping to the floor. And he screamed his damnation.

Then the man stood, and his eyes were empty. But one last purpose moved him onwards. He left the house, left his crossbows. Walked through silent Riverfarm. Past the [Knights] whom he placated with lies. He walked onwards. Out of Riverfarm, slowly following a thread that called him.

She was waiting for him there. At a tree far enough from the village it hadn’t been cut, on a small hill.

Belavierr. The man gazed up at her.

“It’s done.”

She nodded. And her eyes shone with orange light. He stared at her with hatred. Regret.

“Raim lives. I’ve done my part. Now. Will she…?”

“Yes. Do you want me to repeat our pact? I have sworn it.”

Belavierr’s voice was cold. Tagil shuddered. He walked up the hill.

“No. Keep your oath, [Witch].”

She had left something for him there. And she helped him stand on the stool. Tagil stared at her. He spat into her face. She never blinked.

“I will keep my promise. It will be fulfilled in the hour after your death. Regardless of my fate.”

“I hope Raim burns you away.”

“He may.”

But that was not his business. Tagil closed his eyes. The hemp rope hung around his neck.

“Will you tell him I’m sorry? Will you tell her what I did?”

“I did not promise that.”

“Then I curse you, Belavierr the Witch. I curse you. But save my daughter. I did it for her.”

Tagil took a deep breath. And he stepped off the stool. The noose tugged. His throat constricted, but his neck would not snap from such a short height. It took a long time to die like this, he knew.



——



At first, it had been a glorious morning. Trumpeting horns from the [Knights], who had fought and fallen to give the [Hunters] and Ser Raim their moment. A weary [Knight] beginning to blaze like a sun.

Then—someone had gone to the Hunter’s Haven, which had been blocked from the inside and never entered, found the door locked, and the [Knights] had knocked again and again, then called out and demanded entry.

Like a bad dream. The [Witches], Ryoka, the people of Riverfarm had seen Ser Raim’s head turn, and the confidence and wrath blazing in him had faltered. Like a shard of ice entering into unshakeable will.

When the door opened—they had found the dead [Hunters]. And the cries of shock and horror and failure—

Even then, the [Knight] had not wavered. Only stood there, his flame of resolve becoming deeper. Death could not break Raim of the Summer.

—But when they had laid the bodies out and they had found one was missing—then Raim knew. And his fire flickered, and he had demanded they find Belavierr.

Her daughter was still here. Surely…

It was easy to follow Tagil’s trail. A single [Spring Knight] with tracking skills led them to that tree. To the long branch where he hung. And to the one thing that could break a burning resolve.

That was how they found him. As dawn broke, as the four bodies were found inside the warded house by Ryoka Griffin, and the [Knights] found they had battled only puppets that collapsed as the sun rose.

He hung there. On the hilltop. From the longest limb of the tree.

Ser Raim’s scream still echoed. His despair. Betrayal. The [Hunter] stared sightlessly at the [Summer Knight].

And there she stood. As tall as the hanging body. Her eyes glowing in the light of the rising sun, and her smile curved to the very edges of her face. Raim stared up at Belavierr.

“What did you offer him? What did you give him? His daughter? Was it you?”

His hands shook. His face was ashen. Belavierr gazed down at him.

“No. But I offered him her life. A charm to protect her. It is already sent.”

“A charm? He betrayed all for a charm?”

Raim choked. Belavierr nodded. Her eyes were distant. She smelled of smoke and fire.

“The charm was woven from heartstring and bowstring and the string of the noose. His daughter will receive it, and it will protect her from sickness and harm. It will be cursed with a traitor’s sins. But blessed by a father’s love. She will live a hundred years longer, and her gifts will overflow until the day of her death.”

She paused.

“And now, my death, you will no longer find me.”

She turned. Raim uttered a wordless cry. Behind him, Talia raised her sword.

“The Order of Seasons will hunt you down! We know your weakness, Belavierr! We know your daughter—”

She wavered as Belavierr turned back. The Stitch Witch stared down at Talia. At the orb from which Knight-Commander Calirn and the Grandmasters of the Order of Seasons watched. And her eyes widened.

“My daughter. You would use her against me? Very well. Try. For if I am chased, I will flee. If my daughter is held, I will find who takes her and kill them. If she is slain, I will find who slew her. And they will never die.”

She pointed down at Talia. At the Order, as the body swung behind her. Belavierr’s words echoed and shook the air.

“If the Order of Seasons kills my daughter, I will break their stronghold and slay their families one by one. I will kill their sons and daughters generation upon generation and bring ruin to their lands. I will disappear and bring ruin to Terandria if it takes me all of eternity. I vow the same to anyone who would harm her.”

No one present could meet her eyes but Ser Raim. Knight-Commander Calirn spoke hoarsely.

“This will not go unpunished, Belavierr.”

“Unpunished. Then tell me, little [Knight].”

Belavierr stepped down the hill. Her eyes fixed on Calirn’s as she bent over the scrying orb. She spread her arms.

“Are we enemies? I have never considered the Order of Seasons my foes. If we are, let there be war and ruin. Until my final hour, I will hound your Order from the shadows and by my craft. Do you wish it, [Knight]? If you wish it, I will show you how I treat my enemies.”

Calirn gazed at her. Ser Raim was gathering himself.

“Ser Raim. Can you end it?”

“I cannot follow her if she flees.”

“Her daughter.”

Belavierr waited. Calirn hesitated. He looked at the young [Witch] and felt his oaths holding his tongue from what he might suggest. And then a piercing shriek sounded, and he turned. On his side of the scrying orb—suddenly, the Order of Seasons was under attack. Raim closed his eyes bitterly.



——



He had been so focused on the Witch of Webs, Calirn had missed the forces of Kaliv arriving—a day early.

From the skies, he heard a ringing voice. And he saw them flying down upon his order. The Griffin Queen screamed.

“Stay your [Knights], Knight-Commander! Or I will bring war to the Order of Seasons!”

They would have landed amidst the startled [Knights], who hesitated, bowstrings nocked, unwilling to shed blood—but for a wave of ice that appeared.

The Winter’s Watcher. The last Grandmaster of the Order of Seasons drew a sword, and the Griffins banked, flying around the figure, who seemed prepared to take them all on alone.

The rest of the order stood within the keep, encased by stone and magic. Novakya landed her Griffin. Her eyes blazed as she lowered the lance.

“If she dies, my son, the Griffin Prince, dies.”

The Spring’s Warden called out from her position.

“Griffin Queen, he is one life. The Spider can be ended once and for all! She can be killed. Your son might survive her death! Is one life not worth risking?”

“He is my son. That is your answer.”

The Spring’s Warden bowed her head.

“So be it.”

The Winter’s Watcher’s sword met the first Griffin’s talons, and the forces of Kaliv dove. Griffins fell, striking at the Order’s stronghold.

Calirn felt cold. It was all coming together. He spoke a hoarse word.

“Ser Raim. The Order does not call Belavierr our enemy this day. We will not risk it. Nor can we hold the Stitch Witch’s daughter responsible for her crimes.”

“Knight-Commander. I understand.”

Calirn saw Ser Raim slowly draw his sword and walk forwards. So, despite the chill in his bones—despite the death of kindred Terandrians in his very keep, despite treachery and the Witch’s smile—

The sun still shone.



——



There was a rhythm to the end. It was in his voice as he looked to Wiskeria, who stared at him as he lifted his blade. At Califor, who raised her staff—but even she hesitated when she saw his burning gaze. Ser Raim turned to Belavierr and forswore his honor.

His friends lay dead. He had reached the end of his time. And her smile—said she knew all that he had lost.

Still, he burned. And Ser Raim’s voice was steady as he spoke.

“Belavierr. I am a [Summer Knight] of my Order no longer. But for what you have wrought. Then and now—! You will not flee. Stand. Or I will slay your daughter.”

Belavierr’s tone was mocking, even gleeful, as she loomed over him.

“You swore an oath. You are [Knight] no longer.”

Raim nodded.

“I did. You have taken everything from me. Even my honor. Stand, Belavierr. And let us end this.”

The Stitch Witch paused. She looked at her daughter. And she nodded, once. She walked past Raim and turned to face him.

“Come, my death.”

The [Summer Knight] followed her. He paused just once. Talia’s eyes burned and ran with tears. He put a hand out, touching her shoulder gently.

“If I should fall, none of you are to pursue her. Return to the Order. That is an order, Dame Talia.”

“Ser Raim—”

He peered into her eyes and walked on. The [Knight] paused and turned his head.

“Knight-Commander. Grandmasters. It has been my honor.”

“Raim! Don’t do this!”

A voice came from the orb. But the [Summer Knight] walked on. He passed by Ryoka, and she studied him. His face was set. And his footsteps became fire. He walked towards Belavierr as those gathered watched him go. They shouted. Called his name.

A monster waited for the knight. He stepped towards her. And behind him, the Order of Seasons stood and unsheathed their blades. They raised their swords and saluted him, shouting, weeping.

In Terandria and Riverfarm, the Order of Seasons watched him pass. They were not the only ones. The people of Riverfarm screamed. All those who claimed mortality cheered on the [Knight] as he moved forwards. They had seen her evil, so they called to him. End her. End the nightmare. A roar that shook the skies, from a thousand throats. The man raised his sword high, his armor shining, his back straight.

Glory.

There the immortal stood, her back to the dawn. She nodded once, and he advanced, lifting his greatsword as it burned. As he burned. And Ryoka thought she saw Raim smile for just a moment. Then the fire was all-consuming.

She was crying as she watched him go. And the fair folk bowed their heads as he charged. The [Knight] met the [Witch].

This time, he screamed first. A wordless cry with all the rage and fire in his soul. And he struck her. Cutting away the threads that bound. Cutting into her very soul. And she screamed and struck him. He was alone. But he burned. Bright. Brighter, with a fire that struck the shadows. That burned the Stitch Witch away.

They fought. One tore at the other. They staggered. She struck Raim, bending his armor with her bare hands, boiling his flesh behind metal.

Yet Raim was flame incarnate. He drove his sword into her, then gave up and simply seized her and began to blaze through Belavierr’s being. Her scream was high and unending, and they could almost see her now.

A woman being revealed from eons of protections. Burning as the flame came for her. Her death.

Yet—

The flame burned with hatred, vengeance, and rage. It burned on a man’s life with the will to kill a monster far greater than he. It was a conflagration that could have killed any mortal man—and even her.

A day ago, it could have. Today? The flame consumed Belavierr. Ate her web. Left her shrieking in agony—and yet it was lacking.

For the [Knight] had lost his honor. He had lost his comrades and seen faith shattered. The kindling of his soul that provided the flame had no more hope.

Perhaps it was the smallest of differences, for he had his will and vengeance. Or perhaps it was all the difference. For the [Witch] began to laugh as the two were linked, a burning man and a dying woman.

She laughed and laughed and laughed and stopped striking him and stood there. Just stood as he drove towards her end and tried to deliver her promised death.

Belavierr fell, a smoking, charred woman without feature—then a [Witch] again—then a cinder of ash—choking. Vulnerable.

He tried to finish it—but there was nothing left.

A [Knight] stopped where he stood. He sank down, trying to stand. But a mortal man had burnt away.

Ser Raim took a step, then another, trying to lift a greatsword that had all but melted. He struggled to fix on her as her blackened teeth gaped up at him. Still laughing.

Raim whispered a name. His love. He tried to lift his sword, tried to conjure a single spark—and the last light left his eyes. He fell, silently, as smoke rose around him.

Gone.

Then there was only the woman, who lay there, flesh re-knitting, in an agony beyond anything she remembered—still laughing. Mocking her death despite all it had cost her.

She was alive. However, her eyes no longer glowed. The shadows had left her. The [Witch] rose, gasping, her lungs burning.

Mortal. But alive. Belavierr stood and turned. The Order of Seasons watched her. And Knight-Commander Calirn lowered his head. He turned away.

Triumphant, Belavierr smiled. She gazed across the faces of Riverfarm’s folk. The [Knights]. She ignored their horror and wrath. She looked past them at her coven.

They regarded her steadily, with awe, envy, terror, abhorrence, and even pity. She scorned their glances. She only cared for one opinion.

Her daughter stood there. Wiskeria?

Relief flickered across the younger [Witch]’s face, and Belavierr drank that in. Relief—but when Belavierr reached for her hand, Wiskeria recoiled. The [Witch]’s fingers stopped, as if feeling the edges of another tapestry, one unknown to her.

Relief—and regret. And sadness. Wiskeria’s eyes lingered on Ser Raim’s corpse as long as her mother’s face. When she looked up, she saw Belavierr truly.

The Spider’s smile vanished. She reached for her daughter again as Wiskeria backed away, and Belavierr’s gaze was confused. Her triumph faded, and she stood there, as if she had suddenly forgotten why it even mattered. When she looked down:

She did not remember her death’s name.

Slowly, the woman began to knit once more. Remake even more of herself, for she had lost almost everything. Everything except her life. Thus, she was triumphant.

Then Belavierr paused. Her death lay before her, spent. Belavierr frowned at him, then turned away. Her head rose upwards. Towards the clear sky. She shaded her eyes.

“It’s bright. My second death awaits.”

Somewhere, somewhere, the man with the wide, uncanny smile was laughing.





6.45 E


Belavierr could sense the threads drawing together.

Could you feel it? She did. She had never met the man with the strange smile who laughed at the death of Ser Raim and the [Hunters]. She did not know him any more than she understood his motives. But she could still feel it.

Reason and purpose, intersecting. Chance and plans. Malice, directed at her. But she was just a piece in someone else’s trap. That knowledge bothered the [Witch]. She looked up, blinking at the bright sky. And she realized she’d been tricked. But she did not know who had done the tricking, or why. She could not see the web that ensnared her. But she felt it.

The [Witch] gazed back down at her daughter. The trap did not matter. Her daughter did. And surely, whoever had laid it had known or guessed. Belavierr looked at her daughter. And she felt the second of the two deaths closing in. But that did not matter.

So the [Witch] waited, her immortality burnt away, her protections gone. Her magic weaker.

A woman sat in a nest made of ash and embers. Death she had cast down, but death remained. Two, she had foretold, and so still, she waited to see how her death came.

For her daughter, she would face it. But her daughter—Belavierr closed her eyes. She heard that distant laughter as the trap closed.





Day 66 – Ullim



Tyrion Veltras’ return to his estates had not been triumphant. It had been quiet. The armies he had gathered for his elaborate, grand scheme had dispersed. And with them goodwill. Say what you would of Magnolia Reinhart, and many would—she had made grave enemies with her actions.

But when you got down to it, Tyrion Veltras’ grand scheme, which had cost many peers of the realm countless thousands of gold pieces in time and energy spent, had fallen apart. He had brought a force capable of taking Liscor, of altering the map and potentially securing a lynchpin of Drake defenses. And he had failed.

That was all there was to it. So Lord Veltras returned in fury and ire, so much so that no one dared mince words with him. Politically, he might have been disgraced or have lost capital in the currency of opinions, but on his lands, the ancestral Veltras estates that Drakes and Gnolls both would point out that they’d owned in ages past, he still reigned supreme. If he wasn’t welcome at certain balls or gatherings—he seldom attended them anyways.

In his keep, he kept to himself, moodily occupied in his rooms, only stalking out to train or ride about. His sons naturally had questions, and he spent time with them, but he was no fit company, so he let Ullim and Jericha mind the boys as they had always done.

Tyrion Veltras was much like a wolf to people who knew nothing of wolves. He was aloof, fierce, a leader when he needed to be, but solitary. His home, which was more of a keep than a mansion, held only a few of his most loyal retainers, servants, and his two sons.

For all that, he was not a poor [Lord], just specialized. He could lead an army and fight with the best of opponents. But he took little to the managerial side of his class, and it showed.

Veltras lands occupied the western flank of Izril, stretching from the huge Vale Forest—a [Hunter]’s dream, abundant with wildlife—all the way up to the famous landmark, the ‘tail’ of Izril’s northern half, a long coastal stretch. It meant Veltras lands were abundant in forests due to the heavy rainfalls that could come off the High Passes to the south, the economy fed by trade with ports and steady business, but in places, still very much unsettled.

Of course, to the north, where the Veltrases had first settled, there were booming cities, but none quite so famous as Invrisil. If anything, Veltras lands were known more for the family that protected them. A reluctant leader he might be, but Tyrion Veltras’ aptitude for war meant that few monsters or raiders troubled his lands overlong.

It was the economic issues that annoyed the [Lord], which meant he left most of the work to his family’s steward, Ullim. Unfortunately, large events still required Tyrion’s attention, which was how the luckless Ullim found himself putting issues before his temperamental master as rain beat at the study windows outside.

“—Reinhart’s [Trade War] continues to affect commerce in a huge radius, Lord Veltras. It isn’t just Invrisil blocking trade, although that certainly has affected the southern half of the continent. But Reinhart holdings spread across Izril, and we have been running into shortages in our own markets. The [Merchants] are unwilling to cross Lady Reinhart, you see. I suspect some of the nobility will take action, or perhaps Lady Reinhart will herself relent; her markets will feel a pinch soon, but until then, we lack for a number of products including rye grains, some of our wheat imports, a number of fruit orchards’ produce—”

The glower cut the [Majordomo] off. Tyrion Veltras sat straight-backed in his chair, and annoyance was written large on his face. He snapped as he stared at the map on his desk.

“We can live without rye, Ullim. I have no interest in dealing with Reinhart’s trade war. If we lack for some goods, the people can adapt.”

Ullim hesitated.

“One wishes that were so, Lord Veltras. But as I was saying, the traditional, ah, trade routes for salt and oil are also blocked, Lord Veltras. Lady Pryde’s industries, of course, include the Chalen salt mines, and importing it from the coast has increased the price significantly. As well, oil and butter products are generally sourced through Invrisil or trade routes, thus—”

He stopped again as Tyrion cursed. You could live without rye, but salt and oil were different. Tyrion drummed his fingers on the table.

“Go to the coastal ports along Izril’s Tail. Send word that I require trade vessels and caravans in number. We can import goods for a while.”

“At a steep price, sir. It would be cheaper to buy from Terandria with Drake tariffs, and that will cost…”

Ullim calculated out the number on an abacus. Tyrion’s teeth audibly ground together. The [Majordomo] winced. Tyrion got up to pace. Of course, the [Trade War] was a direct byproduct of Magnolia interfering with the siege of Liscor and the ensuing insult to her and her allies.

Although…Ullim distinctly recalled the Veltras family not sending a black rose. His master had his sense of honor, prickly though it was. He would damn a Drake city to oblivion, but insult a peer who had fought at the Sacrifice of Roses?

Never. Still, Tyrion’s lands were west of Invrisil, and the trade war was hitting [Merchants] headed their way. The Merchant’s Guild probably also correctly recalled Magnolia and Tyrion’s longstanding feud and wouldn’t risk the journey with a [Trade War] in any case, regardless if Magnolia was specifically targeting Tyrion.

At last, Tyrion’s furious pacing stopped. Like a caged animal, he whirled.

“Ullim. Your opinion?”

“I fear you’re correct, Lord Veltras. We must import, and everyone must tighten their belts in certain regards.”

Tyrion just glared. After a moment, he stalked back to the desk and stared at the map. Ullim could see the [Lord] fighting with the map, but Tyrion hated the dance of economics as much as he loved war. They were not the same.

“Salt comes from the ocean. We can at least source it from the ports, can’t we?”

“Of course, sir. Sea salt will do just as well as Lady Pryde’s exports. I will add it to the list.”

Tyrion nodded. Ullim sighed with relief as he saw the [Lord] relax. Part of Ullim wished Tyrion took more of an interest in the other sides of his class. Ullim was old, and he had known Tyrion growing up. He hoped he had the energy to raise the next generation of the Veltras family’s main line—Hethon and Sammial. They were young, but growing and lacked for a mother. A father too, at times. Tyrion tried, but like managing his lands, he had to know what was right first.

And his other half, who had been so good at explaining it to Tyrion—was dead. But for her, he might have been a better [Lord]. But it had been…dead gods, four years? Ullim felt like it was a lifetime ago, sometimes. Now, Lord Veltras was distant, ever on campaign, and his sons, especially Sammial, grew apart. If Lady Salva had been alive, she could have been Tyrion’s other half.

She had not been perfect, of course, but without her, Tyrion would attack the problem of the trade war relentlessly, trying to outmaneuver an opponent who’d breathed it since she’d been born. Ullim remembered that too. What Tyrion was to military and combat, Magnolia was to infrastructure and diplomacy. They were complete opposites of each other in a way; the only thing they ever agreed on was their disdain for each other.

“It’s still raining.”

Tyrion’s voice drew Ullim out of the past. The elderly man roused himself and looked to where Tyrion’s attention was focused next. Rain pounded on the panes of the window. Ullim sighed again.

Lord Tyrion Veltras did not do well indoors. While he was content to train or move about in the rain, he didn’t suffer the same for his mounts or his soldiers. It was only one more reason for his enduringly bad mood.

“It has been unnaturally wet, Lord Veltras. One expects the end of the rainy season would have come, but there is no predicting the weather with complete certainty. Even the [Weather Mages] make errors.”

Not that House Veltras’ main family employed any. They had dozens of war mages they could call on, but not one could clear a cloud from the sky beyond shooting fireballs at it. Tyrion only made a discontented sound.

“Too long. It’s been eight days. No lightning. Just rain. The clouds should be spitting lightning, and the rain should be passing. This isn’t natural.”

Ullim nodded.

“It may be someone else tampering with the weather, Lord Veltras. You do recall the time we had gale winds blowing for nearly two weeks? Not to mention the hurricane…?”

“I recall that. But why here? What of the lands south of us?”

They were largely unoccupied and certainly unclaimed. Humans had yet to fully colonize the vast expanse of northern Izril, and the lack of nobility caused by the last Antinium War meant there were fewer holdings under the protection of [Lords] or [Ladies]. Ullim had to consult his notes. He frowned.

“Temperate, Lord Veltras. But normal.”

“To our west, then?”

“Izril’s Tail…well, there was a grand storm, but I have no reports of the port-cities experiencing bad weather.”

“Hm.”

Tyrion glared at the rain. Undeterred, the water kept falling. Ullim went on, shuffling his notes.

“Let’s see. Well, other nobles have been raising the weather issue as well. Lady Ieka’s lands are unseasonably dry, for instance. A pity for her harvests…”

“So something’s affecting the weather.”

“At least in part, Lord Veltras.”

The [Lord] made a disgusted sound.

“Find a [Weather Mage], then. Have them stop the rains today.”

Ullim hesitated.

“We would have to send for one, Lord Veltras. I do not know if there are many to be found—the rains may subside in the time it would take—”

“A [Weatherchange] scroll, then! Buy one and use it!”

Tyrion snapped. Again, Ullim hesitated.

“May I quote you a price, Lord Veltras?”

“Do it.”

“Two thousand gold pieces at least for a scroll that could affect the radius of your holdings. If we wanted to change the weather patterns, we might need to spend as much as four thousand, or even six…”

Again, Ullim saw Tyrion grimace. It wasn’t as if he couldn’t pay the sum, but it was a lot of money to deal with rain. Most cities would be able to afford one scroll or [Weather Mage] in times of need; a [Farmer] could always pay for a shower, of course, but a sustained spell capable of changing weather in a huge radius?

Veltras was rich. Rich enough to finance a truly powerful standing army. But though they were one of the Five Families, that didn’t mean they were all-powerful. Just look at some of the other families.

The houses of Veltras, El, Reinhart, Terland, and Wellfar. They were legends that had settled Izril, taking it from the Drakes and Gnolls thousands of years ago. Of course, they hadn’t been the only noble houses to sail from Terandria. The ones that had perished or fallen over the years had been forgotten by all but a few.

Now, the Five Families remained. But some, like the El families, had fallen far from their lofty past heights. Others, like the Wellfar and Terland families, had retained much of their strength, although the Antinium Wars had slain some of the scions of these houses…Veltras was strong, but they didn’t have huge stockpiles of magical goods. Their strength lay in military might, and their coffers could stand to be deeper.

The Reinharts, on the other hand, had at least kept most of their artifacts—no, even expanded their wealth over the generations thanks to Regis Reinhart. And under Magnolia Reinhart, they were richer still. They could hardly call on all their artifacts of old with that old ghost hoarding their treasures, but it was just another disparity. Ullim could see his lord thinking of all of this as he drummed his fingers on the table. At last, Tyrion nodded.

“Buy a scroll. Use it. Hire a Courier if need be. I want the rain gone tonight.”

“At once, sire.”

Ullim breathed out. It was a cost, but one the Veltras family could afford. And he’d be glad to see the end of this rain too. Sammial was practically bouncing off the walls with his desire to be running about. Veltras nodded as Ullim reached for a list of reputable Couriers.

“I’m going to ride south. I’ll return by nightfall.”

“In this rain, Lord Veltras?”

“Rain brings out monsters, Ullim. I will send a [Message] if I’m delayed returning.”

Tyrion nodded and strode for the doors. At least he’d be happy if he slew a monster, Ullim reflected. The [Lord] paused at the door and wrinkled his nose. He looked around and snapped.

“Ullim. Send some servants into the cellars and storerooms. I believe we have rats.”

The [Majordomo] frowned. But—

They had terriers aplenty. House Veltras was connected well with nature. Still—he went to get a lantern to check.





Day 66 – Ryoka



“She cannot stay here. She must leave.”

That was all Lady Rie said as she watched Belavierr. The [Witch] stood alone. Ryoka wondered if even her coven was afraid to speak with her. And Ryoka didn’t argue the point.

She couldn’t. She still felt tears unshed when she thought of Ser Raim. She had not agreed with him. Ryoka had wanted to find some peace, because part of her liked Belavierr. And another had looked at Raim and seen a hero.

Did that make Belavierr a villain? Perhaps. Perhaps. Or perhaps she was just…a [Witch]. But all of Ryoka abhorred the death of the [Witch Hunters].

There was no answer the young woman had. She had tried to use logic, tried to apply a morality to what she saw. All she now knew was that she was a guest in Riverfarm. Trying to steer a rudder away from destruction. And now—had she succeeded?

The Order of Seasons were leaving. Ryoka had not witnessed the battle between Belavierr’s minions and the [Knights]. She had missed the conflict that tore the earth. But today, she saw what remained.

Cloth, really. Torn silk, so precious that some of Riverfarm’s people had picked it up until they remembered who it belonged to. Broken creatures, some so lifelike that Ryoka could only stare at a severed Wyvern’s head until she walked around it and saw it was filled with stuffing. A few rotting corpses, yes, from the undead. But mainly broken cloth.

And weapons. A treasure trove of ancient steel, even what looked to be magical items. No one touched those either. Even the most light-fingered person thought twice about it.

Cloth. Undead corpses. And the bodies of the fallen [Knights]. All wore green or orange, the colors of their…Order? Season.

The living had closed their eyes, folded their arms, and prepared them for burial—delivery to their homelands. Almost all of the dead were older, senior members of the Order.

The survivors were Knights of the Spring and Summer, and Ryoka saw how young they were. More than half were younger than she was.

In fact, their leader was a Dame Talia, who had assumed command after each one of her seniors had fallen or been too badly wounded to even stand. Some had been veterans, but they had died, lacking magical armor, fighting to keep Ser Raim and the [Hunters] safe. The [Hunters] had fallen to treachery, and Raim had burnt away before he could end Belavierr.

“—Unable to ride. I shall take the bodies of our brethren via Pheislant. Escort me to a major city and the care of a [Healer], Dame Talia. I charge you with the return of our younger [Knights].”

One of the older Spring Knights could barely whisper to Talia, a bandage wrapped around a black wound in her stomach that refused to heal, caused by a cursed weapon. The Summer Knight clasped her hand, bowed her head.

“By your leave, Dame Captain. There are still nigh a dozen of us fit to ride and fight—”

Her words made the able-bodied [Knights] hesitate. Several placed hands on their swords and glanced towards the [Witch]. Their trains of thought were obvious.

Perhaps they still could finish her. Ryoka saw that too. Each of the [Knights] looked at the [Witch], measuring her, seeing her hunch and tend to her burns or wince at the bright light. They were such mortal actions that Ryoka herself felt like she could kill Belavierr just by walking up and stabbing her in the back.

But then the [Witch] would turn. And not even the [Summer Knights] could meet her eyes.

“We will not forget this day. Nor will we forget Ser Raim’s sacrifice. Had it not been for the weakness of one man’s heart, he would have triumphed. I will return his possessions to my order. Miss Durene, you have my thanks. And you, Sir Beniar.”

Dame Talia, a woman with auburn hair, turned and walked past Belavierr, and bowed to the folks of Riverfarm. Ryoka saw her glance at Belavierr more than once, but her orders were clear. The Order of Seasons would not make the Stitch Witch their enemy.

Apparently, they were still at an uneasy standoff with some…Griffin Riders? Ryoka wasn’t sure she’d even heard that right.

Regardless, Dame Talia bid farewell to Durene and Beniar, both of whom had fought with them. It was strange to see her clasp hands with Durene, and the half-Troll girl seemed just as surprised. But they had fought while Ryoka had chased the fae. Talia said not a word to Ryoka as she bore the ashes and Ser Raim’s greatsword away. She had no time for a City Runner.

Talia’s hands were clenched so hard as she stared at Belavierr that Ryoka swore she saw blood leaking from the gauntlets. Another [Knight] was being held back by his friends.

“Markus, don’t do it. She’ll kill you—”

“We’re to turn and leave?”

The man’s voice rose, but they dragged him back.

“The Spring’s Warden and Knight-Commander call it folly. Don’t be mad, Markus. There will be another battle. Someday.”

Hollow the words might have rung, but what could they do? The [Knights] retreated, filled with such emotion that even Ryoka could sense them; she saw more than one [Witch] grasping for the [Knights]’ feelings and placing them under their hats.

And then? There was only the village of Riverfarm left. Prost oversaw the burial of the [Witch Hunter], Tagil. The Order was returning their artifacts to the Hunter’s Guild of Terandria. And they carried the ashes of Sylind, Erashelle, Faigen, Coroise, and Gaile with them. No one had asked for Tagil’s remains.

So the villagers dug a hole for him. The sound the shovel made as it broke the earth was soft, despite all the ash. Ryoka thought it should have been louder. But the sound stayed with her for hours. And they buried him where he fell. No one said a word. It was a traitor’s death.

And that left only Belavierr. No one would go near her. But she was there. As Lady Rie said—she couldn’t stay. Whatever pact the coven hoped to achieve with Riverfarm, she could not be part of it. Everyone had seen what she’d done. They’d seen the body.

“Who will persuade her to leave? His Majesty? A knighthood order couldn’t do it. Leave her alone. All of what’s come to pass has been because people went after her. Leave her alone, Lady Rie.”

Ryoka snapped at the [Lady]. Prost was still wiping his hands.

“We will do just that. But there’s the matter of all this…cloth on the ground. Those weapons—”

“You could outfit a company on Baleros with all of them. It’s worth a fortune. The silk’s valuable too, even if it’s old.”

Charlay blinked as Ryoka elbowed her in her horse half, right below her Human belly. She smacked Ryoka back on the shoulder. Prost shook his head.

“No one touches a thing. We’ll leave it be. If anyone thinks to touch it—I’ll make an announcement.”

“Saying what? Anyone who touches it, be it man, woman, or child, is dead? That this [Witch] can do whatever she pleases without consequence?”

Rie’s lips were pale. Ryoka looked around.

“Yeah, that sounds about right. I’ll talk to her.”

“Ryoka! Are you mad?”

Charlay tried to drag Ryoka back. But the City Runner was adamant. The two engaged in a tug of war, which the Centauress fairly easily won at first—until she realized that Belavierr was staring at them. Then she ran away.

Perhaps Ryoka was stupid. She was properly terrified of Belavierr. Terrified and regretting ever speaking against Ser Raim. But the one man who could have killed her was dead. Now—Ryoka’s eyes went to Wiskeria, standing alone.

Now it was about a mother and a daughter. And Ryoka, at least, felt like she understood that.

Ryoka found Belavierr sitting next to the tree where they had found Tagil. The dry grass had caught fire—a huge swath of scorched earth radiated around her. Naught was left of the tree itself, or Hunter Tagil; only an ashy stump of charred wood remained.

Smoke still stung the air, but the flames had been so intense the landscape wasn’t as burnt as Ryoka had expected. The fire had been meant to cleanse.

It had failed—and left a burnt [Witch] in its wake. Yet already Belavierr proved she was that old legend. At first, she had seemed like a burn victim, ruined, charred flesh covering every bit of her body, with third degree burns—Ryoka didn’t know. Did burns go up higher?

Hair burnt away, eye sockets exposed, flesh worn to reveal cauterized internal organs—

By the time the [Knights] had left, Belavierr was just…Belavierr again. Her dress, immaculate and dark, her hair and face restored to their proper shape. However, there were still clues of her weakness.

For one, she smelled of that incendiary conflict, still. And she sat as though it pained her to even raise her head.

“I have survived my death. But I have another.”

She was talking to Mavika. The coven had joined Belavierr at last. All save for Eloise and Wiskeria. The crow [Witch] cocked her head; Ryoka noticed only her pet raven on her shoulders. Even the crows had fled Belavierr’s general vicinity.

“You foresaw two deaths, Witch Belavierr?”

“Yes. Two. The second comes on the heels of the first. I do not know how. Or where. But it will be by fire. I would flee it, but I have lost my protections. And my daughter remains. So I shall stay. Until the deal with this [Emperor] is struck.”

Belavierr’s eyes were still ringed. But the glow had faded from them. She even blinked. Seldom. And she spoke…like a person. She even turned her head as Ryoka approached. That was unnerving. Alevica shifted from foot to foot, eying Belavierr. The Witch Runner jumped when Belavierr turned to look at her.

“Uh—Bela—Witch Belavierr. You’ve lost your protections?”

“Yes. They were burnt away. I can be killed. I may die. With age or blade. The spells of centuries that would have taken a blow are gone. It is strange.”

The [Witch] raised her head. She stared straight up at the sun and blinked.

“Bright. And I feel…”

She gazed back down at Ryoka. The City Runner paused. Belavierr went on.

“…alive. More aware. Before, I was a function of my craft. My nature displaced. Distant. It has been centuries since I last felt this way. Passing strange.”

She glanced around again. Her eyes found Hedag.

“Hedag. I remember your predecessors, now, each one a face more than a name.”

“Ah. And fine Hedags they were. Fine bastards, or so I hear. How many did you kill?”

The [Executioner] grinned. Belavierr paused.

“…There were more of you. Hedag was a name spread across Izril. ‘For any man or woman may take up the axe and dispense justice. They are the Hedags of villages.’ And you are the last.”

Hedag nodded. Her grin flashed wide across her face, as wide as the strange man Ryoka had met outside the village. It was not necessarily friendly, especially on Hedag’s face. And this time, Belavierr noticed. She was aware. She peered at Hedag, then looked around. This time at Mavika.

“We have spoken before, Mavika. Last…when we ordained the Witch of Molten Stone as a [Witch] unquestioned. A small event of discussion to many who were shocked. Not you nor I.”

“Yes.”

Mavika looked shocked Belavierr recalled it, but the Witch of Webs nodded. And then she turned to Alevica. The Witch Runner tried to copy Hedag’s grin. It slipped away.

“Alevica. It has been long since [Witches] flew through the sky. And your magic is weak.”

“I, uh—I’m improving, Witch Belavierr.”

The Witch Runner flushed, gripping the edge of her hat. Belavierr nodded.

“Grudges and envy are too weak to sustain powerful spells. You incur ire, but you are neither feared nor hated enough to call on true magic. You fly by virtue of talent. And you are weak. Someone should have told you.”

“I’m—”

Alevica shut up as Belavierr stared down at her. Then the Stitch Witch whispered.

“If they should fear you, take their eye and let them see you crush theirs between your teeth. Take their lovers. If you would fly like that—make a necklace of fingers.”

“I—I don’t think that’s something I need to do. That’s a bit extreme?”

Alevica’s voice quavered. The Stitch Witch peered at Alevica, and her eyes turned scornful.

“Yes. That is why you are weak.”

So saying, she turned her head.

“Witch Califor, thou art.”

“Witch Belavierr.”

The [Witch] held her ground as Nanette hid behind Califor. Belavierr tilted her head and then stopped, turning sideways. Nanette squeaked, terrified. And Califor turned to shield her. Now, Belavierr met Califor’s gaze. The two [Witches] locked gazes. Belavierr spoke absently.

“You hid the village. Witches of old did that. I do not know your tales. I recognize your craft.”

Califor’s voice was exceedingly polite.

“I warned you. The old ways still linger. Nanette, introduce yourself to Witch Belavierr.”

“I—I raise my hat to you. Witch Belavierr?”

The [Witch] girl stuttered, white with fright. Belavierr tilted her head, eying Nanette. For a second, she stared at Califor, then turned her head away.

“I remember when Wiskeria was as small as you. I would that I had taught her more. You study from a great [Witch] of our era. A lesson, Witch Nanette. Immortality is not as simple as taking life. To endure the passage of time, we who are mortal must give something away. To hide my soul away from harm, I pushed my soul away. But the cost was exactly what I gave. Remember that.”

“Yes, Miss Belavierr.”

Satisfied, the Stitch Witch sat back and sighed, and Ryoka jumped as the eyes latched onto her. Belavierr was changed. Her eyes were focused, not distant as they always had been except when talking to Wiskeria. And she was remembering names. Faces.

She spoke like someone giving her last rites and benedictions. That was what Ryoka realized. The [Witches] gathered around were polite, even the ones who had opposed Belavierr. Eloise refused to go near Belavierr, but the rest? Belavierr’s voice was weak.

“Ryoka Griffin. You saw the guests. The wind knows you. I saw that. But I did not ask. Who are you? Where did you blow from, strange-scented girl?”

Ryoka shuddered. The full attention of Belavierr was like a lighthouse’s beam blasting her. She gritted her teeth.

“I—I, uh—are you going to clean up all those weapons and cloth?”

Belavierr blinked. She paused, stared at Ryoka, and then turned her head. She regarded the cut, burnt, dirty cloth. The weapons lying on the ground. And she sighed.

“Ah.”

“Your possessions are destroyed. What have you left of your craft? What can you remake?”

Mavika watched as her raven darted from her shoulder and swept up a bright piece of red silk. Belavierr eyed the raven, and it took flight. She swept her hand. All the cloth began to move. Ryoka heard exclamations and saw people run towards the village—the cloth was slithering across the ground towards Belavierr.

The Stitch Witch held up one loose arm of her robes. And the cloth somehow slithered up and up into her dress. Only—it was going somewhere else. In moments, it was gone. Leaving only the metal weapons. Belavierr eyed them. Then she walked over and picked one up. She stared at a steel sword and tossed it back on the burnt ground.

“My creations took decades to make. My wards far longer. I can bind time, create lesser magics. But the workings that hid my very heart away—those were made out of power that was burnt away. I must find more. I have lost all but a few years. Rehanna’s among others. I will be weak.”

“The weapons—”

Ryoka choked. The cloth was gone! Belavierr looked blankly at the scattered weapons and armor.

“Metal. I cannot pick it up so easily. I will conjure something to gather it tonight. Now. You did not answer my question. Who are you?”

She gazed back at Ryoka. The young woman hesitated.

“Just…a City Runner.”

Belavierr stared at her.

“Even were I immortal, I would know that as a lie.”

She paused.

“It matters not. What matters is that my second death comes. And my daughter is wroth with me. She was pleased I lived. Yet…hates me equally well.”

The words came slowly. Ryoka nodded.

“I think she does, yeah.”

Belavierr’s lips moved.

“I do not remember my own mother. Why does Wiskeria feel so? Because of who I am? Because of what I do? How strange. When did she think so? I can remember when she grew angry with me. Back then I had no understanding of it. Now—I understand. But she is a [Witch]. And she lacks a true craft. She is a [General] serving an [Emperor]. How has she strayed from her path? And she hates me. Why?”

Belavierr mused to herself. She seemed…confused. The other [Witches] exchanged glances. At last, Belavierr looked up.

“I must find Wiskeria.”

She walked away. At least there, she was the same. Ryoka watched her vanish in moments, striding with unnatural speed across the ground. Ryoka let out her breath and looked around, wide-eyed. She wasn’t the only one. Even Mavika and Califor were blinking more than usual. Alevica was practically tearing her hat in two.

“What the hell was that?”

Mavika’s eyes focused on the distant Belavierr.

“She has come back to herself. That was Belavierr of old. In the times since I have met her, she has grown more distant. Now, her soul hidden behind her web now burned away. Whether that [Knight] did her a gift unknowing, who can say?”

Califor just exhaled hard.

“Watch her, Nanette. She has become ten times more dangerous, for all she is a hundred thousand times weaker. That is the price of immortality that she mentioned. Everything has its cost. Now, she is burnt beyond belief.”

Hedag laughed. She leaned on her axe.

“She hides it well though, eh? But what a change in her! Perhaps we’d best get any answers we want out of her now! But will it help her with Wiskeria? Or our plans with this man-[Emperor]?”

Califor shook her head, pursing her lips.

“I do not imagine so. And Eloise is at odds with Belavierr. Our coven squabbles, and our members have caused the deaths of others on this [Emperor]’s lands. A fine mess this is when we are bargaining on behalf of [Witches] across Izril. And the sky remains clear.”

Her glare took in everyone. Ryoka paused, her head still spinning.

“Wait, what was that about clear skies?”

Alevica rolled her eyes.

“Oh, nothing. Just the fact that it hasn’t rained and I haven’t seen a cloud for over a week now. That strike you as strange, Griffin?”

She pointed up at the clear skies. Ryoka felt sweat beading on her forehead. It was hot. She’d assumed it was just an early summer heat. But…she paused. And she really looked around.

Not at the weapons on the ground. Or the burnt places where Ser Raim’s fire had ignited the earth, or the torn places where the battle’s scars remained. At the village itself. The surrounding forest.

It was all…dry. Alevica and Califor were right. It hadn’t rained in, what, over a week? Even longer? Ryoka couldn’t remember. She recalled hating the rain right up until about when the [Witches] had arrived, but she hadn’t noticed the dryness except to complain about it.

But today, the heat and Alevica pointing it out made Ryoka notice how dry the grass was. It was yellowed, practically dead. The earth was equally parched underfoot. Only the [Farmers]’ fields were at all green, and that was because of Riverfarm’s river and the watering the villagers were doing.

It was dry. Unnaturally dry. Ryoka turned to Miss Califor.

“I thought it was just odd weather. Is there something magical about this, Miss Califor?”

The [Witch] nodded once. Her severe expression was tinged with annoyance.

“Someone has cast a working on the sky. Someone informed the Order of Seasons of Belavierr’s whereabouts. And someone slew Mavika’s coven. These events may be linked, or they may not. I came here to speak to this [Emperor], not to endanger Nanette. I would not have brought her had I known. It seems there is something afoot. And I will find out what it is.”

Her eyes narrowed dangerously. Ryoka hesitated. She felt for whoever got on the receiving end of Califor’s wrath. But she had no idea…

Ryoka paused. She frowned. No, wait. She had a few hints. Clues. She gazed at Miss Califor, then surreptitiously checked the expressions of the rest of the coven present.

Alevica was frowning up at the sky and muttering about Belavierr—but very quietly. Nanette was staring up at Miss Califor, worried. Hedag was picking at her teeth. And Mavika and Califor were looking straight at Ryoka. She hesitated. And then she backed away. As she headed back to Riverfarm at a run, she felt it too.

Suspicion in the air. If all of this were the result of someone’s doing. Then who? And why?

And—what would Wiskeria make of her mother now? Ryoka got five steps into the village when she got the answer to that question, at least. Wiskeria’s scream rang through the air, and then Belavierr came walking past Ryoka. She seemed miffed, a new expression on her face. Purple flames burned on her dark clothing and then extinguished themselves. Ryoka stared at Belavierr. The [Witch] stared back.

“Weak magic. My daughter has yet to find her craft.”

Coming from her, it sounded like the only problem in the world.





Day 67 – Durene



“Is it wrong I wanted her to live? When I realized she might actually die—when I saw that [Knight], I thought—‘oh. He might actually do it.’ And I was terrified, Durene. I didn’t want to lose her. Then—I did. Both. I’m so inconsistent. I always thought people who didn’t know themselves were fools. Now look at me.”

Wiskeria sat in Durene’s cottage. Tears ran from her eyes. Real tears, Durene realized, not ones Wiskeria had produced for the moment.

Durene sat with her. Charlay had run away. And Ryoka was talking with Prost. But really, they had both run away. Wiskeria’s eyes were red. Her nose ran despite Durene’s handkerchief, which had done its best. She seemed nothing like a [Witch]. She looked like, well, a young woman.

For once, the composed Wiskeria wept. Durene was the worst person here and just kept patting her hand. She didn’t know what to say.

Durene had never had a fight with her mother. She’d never had a mother she knew. She envied Wiskeria, in a way. Envied and understood. Because she knew what it was like to have a monster for a parent. But one that was living?

The half-Troll girl had seen what Belavierr had done. She had seen Ser Raim die. And she had seen evil. Evil smiled as a man swayed from a tree branch. Evil threatened to murder families and children. And that was Belavierr. Durene had never feared anything as much as her. Because she had no idea what to do. Belavierr couldn’t be stopped. She couldn’t be reasoned with. She was…

A monster. But one who cared for her daughter. Yet her daughter clearly wished that were the opposite.

“It would be so much easier if she didn’t care for me. But I am the one person she would ever do a favor for without a price. She has stories of bargaining with the Immortal Tyrant, fleecing Dragons, but for me, she stayed when she might die.”

“That’s, um—a good thing, isn’t it?”

“A brave man lies dead for that. Not just him. Dozens of [Knights]—dead. And war between Kaliv and Pheislant’s Order of Seasons? Ostevien! She used him to manipulate the Griffin Queen to war.”

Durene had no idea where all these places were, but to Wiskeria, it was obvious.

“My fault, Durene. Even when she does me a favor, it twists for her. She lays traps and plans for every contingency. That’s why I thought she could never die. And now someone nearly did it? I don’t recognize her. Was that my mother, before? Who is this? What is she? She talks. She’s different!”

“What’re you going to do?”

“I don’t know. I don’t know. But I can’t let her do this anymore. I can’t—I became a [Witch] because of her. But I am not a full [Witch] because I am always in her shadow. I ran away to find who I was without her. And she has found me, and I am her daughter again, bringing grief because of her affection.”

Wiskeria looked at her hands. She was crying. Durene reached out and patted Wiskeria on the shoulder. But the tears, like everything else, had run out. And Wiskeria’s sobs soon turned dry. Then, she just sat and bowed her head. The terrible look in her eyes scared Durene far more than Wiskeria’s wrath or sadness.

“Why don’t we find Eloise? Or—Ryoka? She said we have a problem.”

Durene offered the suggestion as an alternative to sitting in silence. Wiskeria glanced up after a moment and nodded. She got up and stared at the mess of a handkerchief. Durene winced.

“I can wash that—”

“Here.”

Wiskeria shook it and handed it back. Durene gingerly took it—and then realized the handkerchief was dry. Empty, too. Relieved, she smiled.

“Hey! That’s a great trick! You know a lot of tricks for a [Witch]! Even if you don’t, um, do the big things…”

The young woman’s face turned into a bitter smile. She looked up at Durene. And something of the dead [Hunter], Tagil’s, last expression was there.

“Yeah. You know, I think the other [Witches] always expected more of me, Durene. Because of my mother. But a [Witch] is limited by her craft. And I don’t have one. I know my mother’s secrets, some of them. I could have struck a bargain with the moon or committed dark deeds by midnight for power.”

Her eyes were serious, and Durene shivered. Wiskeria shook her head.

“—But I never did. Because that would have made me too much like her. I was always afraid of who I might become, I think. So I tried to be a—a normal [Witch]. A normal person. I became an adventurer. And Odveig, my best friend, turned out to be an imposter. I haven’t been that much happier by running away.”

“I didn’t mean that.”

Durene looked down. Wiskeria smiled.

“I know. Come on.”

They left the cottage. Wiskeria strode down the dry dirt road. Durene followed warily. But Wiskeria wasn’t about to be stopped.

Riverfarm was quiet. People worked, then rested in the shade. The air was hot and dry. But what exhausted the body was the atmosphere. It was tense. Stifling. Fights broke out for no reason. Arguments began and halted as people saw the pointed hat. But the fear—the fear was the root. Durene was no [Witch], but she could feel it.

“You see? Mother’s everything that makes [Witches] hated.”

Wiskeria whispered as she gazed around. Durene walked with her through the village, searching for Ryoka. The [Witch] went on.

“And yet, it doesn’t have to be this way. Eloise. Hedag. Even Mavika, in a way. People don’t hate them. Some of them saw the good. I can feel it. They’re an inch from turning on us. If they weren’t terrified of Mother, they would. But they liked us. It’s still there. Buried.”

“You can show them again. Riverfarm has good people in it. Even the folks from Lancrel can see.”

Durene saw Wiskeria shake her head.

“No. So long as she’s here, she’ll always remind them of what we can be at our worst. She is the most powerful [Witch] I know. And the darkest.”



——



They found Ryoka in Rie’s cottage. The young woman was panting. And Charlay was drinking greedily from a flask of water. Durene glared at both, but the two Runner girls had uncharacteristically grave expressions. Rie was tracing a finger across a map.

“So, that appears to be, what? A fifty mile radius?”

“At least. Charlay made it way farther than I did. We both took about an hour and some to go out there, and we saw dry grass ahead. So yeah, fifty miles at least.”

Charlay pawed the ground as she splashed some water on her face and the floor and Ryoka.

“I thought I spied some green at the end of my run. But Ryoka’s right. It’s dry. All the streams have dried up.”

Prost leaned over the table, his brow knotted with worry as it always seemed to be these days.

“Why didn’t we notice it before?”

“It seemed natural to me after all that rain. This felt like an early summer heat wave. And it’s not like we didn’t have enough to worry about. It’s just these last few days that have been hot—”

Ryoka glanced up as Wiskeria and Durene stopped in the doorway. Her expression was grave. Durene opened her mouth. Wiskeria beat her.

“What has my mother done this time?”

“Nothing. We have a new problem. It’s still not rained.”

Ryoka outlined the issue succinctly. There wasn’t much to say. Durene had noticed the lack of water, of course. She’d been working the farm rotation, helping water the crops. Because Riverfarm was fed by the river, they’d been able to keep growing what they wanted. But outside the village, everything was drying up. According to Ryoka, it wasn’t natural.

“The [Witches] say it might be magic causing the drought. Califor’s certain. Which makes me certain it is something. The question is—is it one of them? The Circle of Thorns? The Order of Seasons? Someone else?”

“What makes you think the Order of Seasons had anything to do with this? They targeted Belavierr. And they are an extremely honorable order.”

Lady Rie seemed insulted. Ryoka raised her eyebrows.

“They’re called the ‘Order of Seasons’. I imagine they could do something like that.”

“Maybe it’s my mother. It sounds like something she’d do.”

Wiskeria’s expression was still bleak. Ryoka paused. Everyone in the room looked at Wiskeria. Their expressions ranged from sympathy to quiet appraisal. Ryoka paused.

“Could she do that?”

“Weather magic. Stitch magic. My mother could probably do it if she wanted to. Maybe someone paid her.”

Ryoka paused for a second and then shook her head.

“She might. I’ll…ask her. And the coven, to see if they know anything. But what could affect the weather for so many days? Anyone? Even the wind feels slack.”

She paused and bit her lip. Wiskeria and Lady Rie both glanced at each other. Wiskeria frowned.

“A few things can change weather. [Witches], for one. We know rituals. Also, [Weather Mages]. Some artifacts, although they’re rare. Magical scrolls, of course, but they’re too expensive for regular people to use. You’d have to use a bunch to keep the weather straight for days on end. And…maybe [Druids]? Those are the ones I can think of. I guess you could be a [Water Mage] and shoot water into the air or something.”

Rie nodded.

“Scrolls are out of the question for most individuals. I myself couldn’t afford to use more than one or two in times of emergency. If I thought this drought was natural, I might still give it four more days before I called for a [Weather Mage] or scroll.”

“Surely it’s not that expensive? I’ve known bad years before, and once Riverfarm pitched in to call on a [Weather Mage]. It did cost the earth, but we could afford it.”

Prost protested gently. Rie shook her head.

“Mister Prost, the difference is forcing a change and temporary relief or encouraging nature to be…nature, as I understand it. Calling for a sudden shower is simple, if taxing. Changing the weather to, say, start the rainy season early is more difficult, but again, possible. But outright halting the fall of rain? Halting this amount of rain over such an area? That would require a great deal of magic from one [Mage]. Or a simply exorbitant number of scrolls.”

Wiskeria rubbed at her chin.

“Or a [Witch] casting the right ritual. Or hex.”

Everyone was silent then. Ryoka looked up. The City Runner paused.

“Well, we don’t know who it is. But I think we should begin making plans and investigating the issue. I’ll ask Fierre—I also want to know how the Order of Seasons knew Belavierr was here.”

“Very well. I will see to collecting some water. We can fashion some barrels, store them…”

Rie and Prost focused on the issue of storing water as if it were some huge problem. But Durene didn’t see it. As the others left, she turned to Ryoka.

“What’s the problem? I understand it’s dry, but it doesn’t affect Riverfarm, right? We have a river, Ryoka.”

The young Asian woman gave Durene a frown.

“Yeah. But it’s not infinite. Riverfarm could run out of a river.”

“What? No, it’s a river…”

Durene chuckled. Then she saw the look on Ryoka’s face.

“What?”

“The river’s not infinite, Durene. It’s being fed by tributaries and groundwater. Haven’t you seen how low it is?”

Durene hadn’t. Nor had anyone ever explained the concept of how rivers came to be to her. Riverfarm’s river had always been there; it never occurred to Durene that the river could disappear if it stopped being fed by rain. They went to the river, and she gasped when she saw how low it was. Ryoka nodded and knelt, peering at the banks.

“Your river’s sunk three feet. What happens when it runs dry? The crops die for one. And for another…we could be in serious trouble.”

“No one can keep the weather dry forever, though. Not even the most powerful spells can hold back the natural weather.”

Wiskeria’s voice was quiet. Ryoka nodded.

“True, but we stand at risk for fires. Well—not with the river, yeah. But we’ll store some river water. Maybe we should keep some at strategic places in case a fire breaks out. I’ll—”

Then she paused. She glanced up at the same time Durene felt the tingle on her neck. Belavierr strode towards them. She didn’t appear. She just walked. And her eyes were fixed on Wiskeria. A change in the air. She still smelled of smoke. And she could die. But she felt like power.

“Daughter.”

“Mother.”

Wiskeria turned. Ryoka, Charlay, and Durene backed up. Belavierr stopped and gazed down at Wiskeria. Yesterday, Wiskeria had shot magic at her mother until she left. Today, Belavierr stood at a slight remove. Her voice was cool.

“Have you calmed, Daughter? I would speak to you of your craft. Your future. I understand you are wroth with me.”

“I’m beyond angry, Mother. Not for killing that [Knight]. For everything.”

Wiskeria shook her head. She looked at her mother. And Durene saw more than a few people from the village had followed. They were staring at Belavierr. At Wiskeria. And their faces—Belavierr paid them no mind. She glanced at Ryoka once. Charlay and Durene she ignored.

“I have lost my protections. Been torn back to mortality. I hunger and thirst and breathe. But I still do not understand your fury, Daughter. You are a [Witch]. You know what it is to be one of us. All that I have done has been to protect myself. I made no unfair deals with Rehanna.”

“But you threatened a [Prince]’s life. My friend, Ostevien. You convinced a man to kill his friends and hang himself.”

Belavierr’s eyes never changed. Nor did her voice.

“Of course. I made such deals to protect myself. The Griffin Prince accepted my bargain, even if he found it not to his liking. If I perished, he would too. I have asked nothing of him for years and asked nothing of the Griffin Queen. Merely told her who hunted me. Tagil the [Witch Hunter] chose his daughter’s life over his own. They were all free to choose.”

“You make it sound so simple.”

Wiskeria’s voice was bitter. She looked at her mother and shook her head. Belavierr sighed.

“Does death bother you? Why? I never raised you to fear it.”

“You didn’t. It took me ages to understand how other people saw such things. How to admire a man like Ser Raim. He had every right to his vengeance. You are a criminal, a murderer, and a lawbreaker, mother.”

Wiskeria shot back. Belavierr gave her daughter a blank frown, then sounded…exasperated.

“Law. That is a concept of cities. I have taught you of law. A great…friend of mine made thousands of laws. Each one more twisted than the last, each one more elegant. A law is a rod that can be walked around, ignored, bent, or broken. We are [Witches]. We act according to our craft. Our desires. You know this.”

Wiskeria exhaled.

“I do. I don’t admire what you are, Mother. I admire that dead man’s resolve. I understand every reason he tried to kill you, and I wish he had—and I am glad he didn’t. The difference is, I feel guilty about my relief. Do you understand?”

It was the same argument Durene had heard before. The one Wiskeria had wept over. She saw Ryoka’s face, sharply listening. Waiting, mouth opening, as if to break in. But she couldn’t. Belavierr sighed.

“So you say. We walk in a circle. Daughter. Nothing I do is your fault. You are not responsible for my actions. And you are my daughter. Can we not be mother and daughter?”

She reached out, and Wiskeria flinched. She held up a hand. And then she cried out to all listening.

“You don’t understand. I can’t forget what you’ve done! I can’t look away and pretend you aren’t wrong! If I could, I would be happy. But I can’t. Because I still love you, Mother! So now I am guilty, because I am two contradictory things. Because I could stop you.”

Tears unshed. And Belavierr sighed. She sighed, and Durene waited for what would come next. They were at odds, the two. Neither one changing. But today, Wiskeria’s face was pale. Her eyes were horrified. Belavierr spread her arms, welcoming, entreating. And her smile was gentle, loving perhaps—

—But also greatly amused.

“My daughter. My beloved daughter. I would do anything in my power for you. But I will not change who I am. And you cannot stop me.”

“I could try.”

Wiskeria aimed her wand at Belavierr’s back. Durene heard Belavierr sigh and turn.

“Daughter.”

“By my blood, I draw this knife. An oath cut to, an oath of strife—”

Wiskeria whispered and drew a dagger from her side. She went to cut her arm, drawing blood, which pooled around the knife’s edge. Belavierr watched, sighing, as Wiskeria flicked the knife up, holding it lightly—

“A simple charm, Daughter. As poor as Witch Alevica against me. A single sonnet against a library of high-chant, even now.”

Wiskeria jabbed—and Belavierr caught the knife-hand, twisted it, and Wiskeria grimaced, tried to draw her wand—Belavierr idly let go, and Wiskeria stumbled back.

“—Daughter. My clothes alone could ward off that blade.”

“I know.”

Wiskeria stabbed for Belavierr’s cheek, and Durene gasped in horror. Belavierr turned her head and closed her jaw as the knife went through one cheek.

No blood pooled from her face as someone shouted in horror. Wiskeria’s arm jarred, and Belavierr removed Wiskeria’s knife, opened her mouth, pulled the blade out—

Her skin stuck to the blade—but left no blood. She handed Wiskeria the knife back.

“I will teach you a better cutting charm, Daughter. Are you done throwing a tantrum? You could not stop me. Even now. My daughter, you could do so much more.”

Wiskeria backed up, eyes flashing.

“I owe my lack of craft to you, Mother. I’ve seen what it turns you into.”

That hurt more than the knife, clearly. Belavierr frowned, and Wiskeria began to chant, waving her wand.

“Cut the air and strike the skies! Enough of my mother’s lies! Strike the murderess between the eyes!”

This time, it was air. Durene saw something shift. She saw an almost invisible blade fly at Belavierr. The Stitch Witch glared.

“Enough.”

She raised a hand and slashed. Durene saw a flash of silver; Wiskeria gasped and stumbled backwards. The blade of air severed, exploded in a burst. And Belavierr lowered the needle. Her voice was coldly disappointed.

“You chant in the old way to make up for your lack of power. Even armed with knowledge of old—the [Witches] of this coven exceed you, each and every one. Including the child, Nanette. Daughter, you could be greater. But you lack a craft. You lack a source of strength!”

“I don’t need one!”

“You are nothing without a power to draw upon. I have failed to teach you. Your coven has failed you. A [Witch] who has no craft is weaker than anything else. A [Hedge Witch] has more strength. Come. You will learn from your coven if not I.”

So saying, Belavierr reached out. Wiskeria raised her wand. The Stitch Witch crooked a finger, and Wiskeria’s robes gripped her. Durene saw the cloth pulling her arm down.

“Stop!”

Wiskeria struggled, but the cloth constrained her movements. Belavierr pointed, and Wiskeria began moving sideways. Her clothes were pulling her.

“Must I treat you like a child, Daughter?”

Belavierr seemed annoyed. But she paused as an arm barred her way. Durene glanced at Ryoka. And then she realized it was her arm. The half-Troll inhaled as Belavierr gazed at her.

“Stop. She doesn’t want to go.”

They were nearly of a height. The Stitch Witch stared at Durene. And the half-Troll girl felt a lump of cold fear in her stomach.

“Move, Troll’s child.”

“No. Wiskeria doesn’t want to go with you. Let her go.”

Belavierr’s eyes flashed. Durene flinched, and Ryoka took a step forward.

“Belavierr—”

“Be silent. I give you one last warning, half-girl. Move.”

This time, the word made Durene’s heart freeze in terror. But she refused. She thought of Ser Raim. And her hands balled into fists.

“No. Make me.”

“Mother, don’t—”

The Stitch Witch ignored her daughter. She reached towards Durene. The half-Troll raised a fist.

Thunk.

An arrow sprouted out of Belavierr’s chest. She staggered. Durene jerked back. Wiskeria stumbled as the clothes let her go. She stood up, turned.

“Mother!”

Belavierr stared down at the arrow in her chest. She reached for it. And then coughed. She stumbled; that saved her from the second arrow. It hit the ground, and Durene looked around wildly. Who was shooting?

“Stop!”

Ryoka shouted, and air blasted around them. The City Runner was glancing around as Charlay dashed to one side. The Centauress had the most wits about her; she kicked the ground, whipping up dust, and screamed as she zig-zagged into it.

“Move, you idiots! Get behind cover!”

“Mother—”

Wiskeria had rushed to Belavierr’s side. She looked around desperately for the archer, but they were nowhere in sight. Belavierr was coughing. Choking. Then her eyes focused. She raised a trembling hand, the same one that held the needle. She flicked it, spitting out a word.

“Seek. Kill.”

She flung the needle. With her other hand, she pulled the arrow out of her chest, grimacing.

Someone screamed, and there was a panic as Belavierr sank to one knee. Yet she was just inspecting the hole in her chest, deep, red, and bloody.

However, she stood back up in a moment and spoke as if she’d just pricked her finger on a pin rather than been shot through the chest. Wiskeria had lunged forwards, but hesitated.

“Mother? Are you alright?”

“I am fine, Daughter. But I must heal. Anti-magic. Evercut Arrow. Whomever shot this meant me to die. Alas…I am still I.”

Her smile was victorious, and Wiskeria’s expression of worry turned to anger. Then disappointment with herself. She turned half away, folding her arms.

“You actually got hurt?”

“The flesh remains cut by magic. But this, still, I defy.”

Wiskeria stared blankly at her mother. Belavierr’s chest was leaking blood, but she seemed to think of it more as an annoyance than anything else. After a second, Wiskeria jerked her head.

“Would a potion help?”

The Stitch Witch shook her head.

“Most of mine are burnt away. A Potion of Regeneration is a waste; this wound shall stay. It will heal in a week or so.”

So saying, she produced a thread and needle, and Durene realized Belavierr intended to stitch the wound closed! However, the [Witch] stopped as Wiskeria grabbed one from her belt. Belavierr frowned.

“Daughter—”

“Drink.”

Belavierr did. She blinked. Durene didn’t see the wound close, but the grimace of pain vanished from Belavierr’s face. She rose, feeling at her chest.

“Strange. Potions were not so powerful the last time I remember using them.”

“And when was that, Mother?”

The Stitch Witch blinked. She looked at her daughter. Then she smiled ruefully.

“Long enough ago that I could remember Sage’s Grass being a thing I hoarded for the power of it. I traded a perfect Cloth-Warrior made of silk and satin to a noble [Sheik] for three seeds.”

“Oh, Mother. You were always bad with money.”

The two stared at each other. Then they laughed. Belavierr quietly, and Wiskeria with a note of relieved hysteria. But they did laugh. For a moment, they seemed like a mother and daughter. Then Durene heard the scream again. And the moment vanished. But as she turned and ran, she saw Ryoka’s face. And the young woman looked as though she wished it had lasted forever.



—–



The [Archer] was dead. He was a former [Soldier], one of Lancrel’s people. And he had been hiding behind one of the roofs in the village. He’d shot well; he was over a hundred and fifty feet distant. And he’d taken cover. But Belavierr’s needle had found him even so.

It had gone through his head. Straight through bone and brain. Belavierr didn’t retrieve the needle. Nor did she glance twice at the man. She only grimaced.

“Cloth fails before Skill. I must recreate my wards. Better that it struck me than you, Daughter. The arrow would have passed straight through your clothes. It was well made. For this era and time.”

She watched her daughter. Wiskeria just stared down at the man. Riverfarm’s folk stood far back, save for Durene, Charlay, and Wiskeria. But their eyes fixed on Belavierr. Durene didn’t doubt that many of them wished the [Archer] had succeeded. But when Belavierr looked up, they ran. Wiskeria knelt, not turning to her mother. Her voice was broken again.

“You killed him.”

“I was defending myself.”

“You didn’t have to kill him, Mother! What about interrogation? This might be a clue to why [Witches] are hunted! At the very least you could ask which group is trying to kill you! Maybe it’s the Circle of Thorns? Did you ever think to be helpful?”

Wiskeria’s eyes flashed. Belavierr’s voice was cool. She turned away from the man.

“Should I have let him live to try again, Daughter? He made his choice and I mine. Now, as I was saying. You must find your craft—”

She paused. Wiskeria was just facing away from her. Belavierr stared at her. She peered at Ryoka, Charlay, and Durene. Awkwardly, she bent over and tried to pull Wiskeria around to face her.

“Daugh—”

“Go away!”

The Stitch Witch hesitated. But Wiskeria’s tears did what magic, an arrow, and Durene hadn’t. After a moment, Belavierr went. Wiskeria wiped her eyes. She knelt by the body as people finally dared to return. Ryoka looked around.

“Who sent this man? Councilwoman Beatica? Or did he do this himself?”

“It doesn’t matter. He’s dead. And my mother won’t die so easily. You saw it. She can stop herself from bleeding.”

“It looked close to me.”

“It was. I think it scared her.”

Ryoka paused. She peered down at Wiskeria.

“You still care for her.”

The [Witch] nodded.

“But I can’t stop her. Look at all the people she’s killed, Ryoka. Another body on her toll of today. Yesterday, a man hung himself for her. What will tomorrow bring?”

The Wind Runner stood there, inhaling and exhaling, and Durene wondered what Ryoka might say. Ryoka said this:

“She did it for you. She loves you. I wish I knew my mother was like that. She faced down her death for you.”

Wiskeria nodded, and she gave Ryoka a smile as if the City Runner understood.

“Yes. Isn’t it terrible?”

“It must make things so much harder.”

Ryoka put her hands in her pockets, awkward. Wiskeria wiped tears from her eyes.

And that was how Durene understood Wiskeria’s relationship with her mother. Anger, quarreling. Unchanging natures. Disappointment on both sides. Grief. And love.

Despite it all, Durene still envied Wiskeria.





Day 68 – Ullim



It was raining again. Ullim saw his [Lord]’s eyes flashing as Tyrion strode across the room.

“Magic.”

“Someone must have reversed the [Weatherchange] scroll, Lord Veltras.”

“Who?”

There was no answer Ullim could give. He could only speculate.

“It may be the work of another spell in another province. Weather magic does have wide-ranging effects. If the rain is being diverted—”

“Ullim. I don’t want speculation. I want answers. Who is causing this? Give me a list of people who could have caused it.”

Tyrion coldly dismissed his [Majordomo]. Which left Ullim scrambling to ask questions where he didn’t know where to start. However, he was able to come back two hours later with a bunch of [Messages].

“Lord Veltras, we may know who caused the rain.”

“Go on.”

The [Lord] frowned as his personal [Mage], Jericha, looked up from her own spellbooks. Ullim cleared his throat.

“A [Witch] passed through your lands some time ago, Lord Veltras. Around the same time the rains began. The villages distinctly recalled her passing—she was known as Eloise, or the, ah, ‘Tea Witch’. She seems to be highly regarded by some. But hers was a notable passing. No one can recall if she was given offense, but many believe she may have cursed the region for some slight.”

“A [Witch]? I asked for answers, Ullim. Not superstition.”

Tyrion frowned darkly. Ullim coughed.

“I understand, Lord Veltras. But there are no other notable events I could find. And [Witches] can change the weather…”

“Not for this long. At least, not without considerable magic. Lord Veltras, I wouldn’t lay too much faith in this being a [Witch]’s doing. There is magic in the weather we’re experiencing. But I can’t lift it, and I doubt a [Witch] would be inclined to use this much magic for a slight.”

Jericha frowned. Ullim raised a finger.

“Ah. However, I discovered one more thing of note. A discreet inquiry revealed that this [Witch] is in fact a former [Lady].”

“What?”

Both Tyrion and Jericha started. Ullim nodded. It had been worth paying for that tidbit.

“Lady Eloise of House Havin. She hails from Terandria. She left her house and was considered dead to her family over three decades ago. But she is apparently the very same [Lady].”

“A [Lady] becoming a [Witch]? And she’s known as the Tea Witch?”

Jericha seemed appalled at the thought. But Lord Tyrion’s brows just snapped together. He came to the same conclusion that had crossed Ullim’s mind in a moment.

“Reinhart.”

Ullim nodded, darkly satisfied. It was just a hypothesis, but one [Lady] was known to have ties to countless nobles. And Magnolia Reinhart loved tea, albeit with enough sugar to classify it as something else entirely. She was also, Ullim knew, greatly fond of using agents to achieve her ends.

“Lord Veltras. After some investigation, I have noted that Lord Erill, Lady Ieka, Lord Pellmia, and a number of other notable peers of the realm are all suffering from some kind of disturbance in their weather. And Invrisil is not. Furthermore—Lord Pellmia’s [Manservant], Kilmet, reported the presence of another [Witch] passing through his lands. A figure of note. A Hedag. Or Hedag the [Executioner]. I’m not clear on whether it is a name or title.”

Ullim was rewarded by his lord’s furious expression. Tyrion Veltras strode over to a map, plotting Lord Pellmia’s lands.

“[Witches]. And Reinhart’s lands are unaffected?”

Jericha fiddled with her glasses.

“She may have hired these [Witches] in conjunction with the trade war, sire. I can investigate. If a [Witch] did perform a ritual, they would have had to anchor the spell. We might discover it.”

“Do it, Jericha. Ullim, send word to Pellmia. Ask him about his [Witch]. Send word to each village that this [Witch] passed through. I will send an escort. I want them here tonight to testify to what occurred. And check whether Bethal, Pryde, Wuvren—any of their lands are affected by this weather.”

“Of course, Lord Veltras. And if they are not?”

Ullim held his breath as Tyrion turned his head. Lord Tyrion Veltras’ voice was quiet.

“If they are not, then I will consider Reinhart’s interference at Liscor and this latest an insult that demands my immediate attention. And I will call on every noble affected to bring that complaint to her.”

Outside, the rain drummed on the windows. But the flash of lightning that would have really made the scene appropriate never came.





Day 68 – Alevica



Two days after Ser Raim had fought and died, Alevica, known as the Witch Runner, was bored. She’d been bored ever since she came to Riverfarm.

Okay, not by Belavierr or the [Witches], but it was more like moments of amazement, terror, and so on between lots of boredom. One might think, after two days, she would still be shaking with what she’d seen Belavierr do.

The Riverfarm people might do that, but two days was a long time, and Alevica had gotten over it, mostly, on day one.

By today, she was restless. Annoyed too; with both the lack of things for herself to do and her own limited magic. Belavierr’s critiques rankled Alevica, and the Witch Runner didn’t know how the older [Witches] just sat around and waited for an [Emperor] to drag his behind here. Obviously, this was the place to be to observe powerful witchcraft…but Alevica would have gladly left to make some actual money if she could. Come back for the highlights then leave.

The problem was that she was a [Witch]. Even the most independent and solitary of [Witches] had to answer to their coven. And hers had sent her here. Along with a bunch of other ‘legends’ who weren’t much in person. Eloise was sweet, but faded. Hedag was fun, but hardly more than a drunk old woman with a strong right arm. Neither was a powerful [Witch] by Alevica’s standards. Wiskeria was weak. Nanette was just a kid.

Of course, then, Alevica had to grudgingly admit that Mavika was truly powerful. As was Califor. In fact, but for those two and Alevica wouldn’t have come. But she didn’t cross either one lightly. Alevica might still have refused or left—but then there was Belavierr.

She scared the Witch Runner. That was something Alevica would never admit out loud. Yet there it was. Belavierr was terrifying. Even after she’d been burnt, set on fire, shot full of arrows, and been cut with a flaming greatsword—all that had done was make her Human again. She was still alive, and she’d just killed a man yesterday with a needle.

“A needle. She killed a man by throwing a needle at him. Who needs arrows when you can throw a few hundred needles? Huh?”

Alevica grinned around the dining room table where she was sitting, her chair rocked back and feet propped up. Half the [Witches] sitting around the table glanced up. No one answered. Califor spared a glare for Alevica’s feet, but said not a word. Discontented, Alevica folded her arms.

Old [Witches] and kids. This was why she hated most covens. Ryoka Griffin seemed fun at least, but she was always hanging about the older [Witches]. Alevica rocked back further in her chair, watching and listening.

Wiskeria was moaning to the coven. They’d all gathered save for Belavierr to comfort her and pat her tears away. Alevica rolled her eyes.

“I don’t understand how you can look the other way. Any of you. Didn’t you see the man she killed yesterday? What about Ser Raim?”

“We see. Some of us do not condone it, Witch Wiskeria. But we see and acknowledge it as Belavierr’s business. You have a right to speak of it by blood. But we are not Belavierr’s masters. She answers not to us. Would you have us rule her? That is not a coven’s function.”

Mavika perched on her chair like the birds she enjoyed hanging out with. Pretentious speech aside, what she meant was the unwritten rule of [Witches]. Don’t interfere with other [Witches]’ business. Alevica sighed. Loudly. No one looked at her.

“But none of you aided the [Knights]! If you had—Witch Califor, she actually called your craft impressive. If you’d been with the [Hunters]—”

Califor replied levelly.

“He might have killed me as well as the others. A warrior like Hunter Tagil is far more dangerous than a [Witch] at what he does, and that was to kill, Wiskeria. As to why I did not oppose Belavierr with Ser Raim? I am not inclined to endanger Riverfarm or Nanette. Believe me: it would have endangered everyone. When we are done, I will consider Belavierr’s deeds, but this entire coven is not the right one to hold her to account.”

“So we’re just going to let her continue to ruin lives?”

Wiskeria blazed. Alevica could see her righteous fury. A bit of sadness. And love. Oh, yes. Alevica hated looking at it. The other [Witches] were sympathetic, especially Nanette. Hedag just grinned. Now she was hard to read. Alevica knew Hedag had poor magical abilities, but she couldn’t read Hedag’s emotions. Well, none of the older witches gave much away, aside from Mavika when she was pissed. That bothered Alevica a bit.

It was Eloise who replied. The tea [Witch] sipped from her cup, but slowly. She hadn’t been pleased about Belavierr either, but she was defending the other [Witch]. That had to stick in her craw.

“Selfishness is in our nature, Witch Wiskeria. We act according to our natures. And we do not judge each other. Well, we try not to push our judgements on each other. We hesitate to interfere with other [Witches]. And Belavierr has kept from endangering the village. Except in this latest case where Califor did step in.”

“Except that she’s putting the coven’s deal with Riverfarm in jeopardy.”

The other [Witches] paused. Well, yes. There was that. Wiskeria went on as Alevica dug in one ear.

“I’ve heard this before. ‘[Witches] act according to our natures. We obey no laws. That’s why we’re [Witches].’ But we don’t have to be lawless! We can live in society and obey rules! Eloise, you do that! And Hedag—”

She broke off as the [Executioner] laughed. Hedag shook her head.

“Ah, Wiskeria. We’re different. Eloise may live within the law, but she’s one of us. The rest, from Mavika to Califor to your mother, obey their own laws. And I? I’m the biggest lawbreaker of all, according to some!”

“But Hedag, you’re a law bringer yourself—”

Wiskeria protested weakly. Hedag’s laugh cut her off.

“But my laws are my own, Wiskeria. I bear justice as I see it. Miss Califor gives aid as she sees fit. We are halves of Mavika and Alevica, who act in their interests. But we are all the same. Your mother is just more [Witch] than we!”

“But she’s a murderer.”

“And she’s good at it! Get that in your head, Wiskeria!”

Alevica cupped her hands and shouted it at Wiskeria impatiently. She was rewarded with a glare from Wiskeria. Califor sniffed, and Alevica gritted her teeth, but shut up. Mavika nodded after giving Alevica a birdish look.

“Yes. We are proud of her. For her crimes, she is hunted. But she is ours, Witch Wiskeria. And she speaks the truth. You lack craft. You lack power. I say it to you too. Why do you not accept it?”

She prodded Wiskeria with a taloned finger. Wiskeria glared.

“You’re proud, Mavika?”

The crow [Witch] nodded.

“Proud. Yes. Why shouldn’t we be? She is ours. Witch Wiskeria, she is the legend of [Witches]. A dark one. And there are those of us who are outcast. But we are [Witches] still. We have been hunted and shunned. Who will stand for [Witches] if not other [Witches]? We cannot always stand alone.”

“But—”

“A [Witch] has always broken laws. We all live apart. We are not city dwellers, Witch Wiskeria. We do not operate under laws. Because law has always sought to exterminate our kind. That is why we seek to bargain with this [Emperor], to keep our rights. To live without fear. But he must accept that we practice our craft. We cannot be beholden.”

Califor snapped in a rare display of annoyance, out of patience with Wiskeria. The younger [Witch] looked up. Alevica was impressed; she didn’t flinch from Califor’s glare or the force in the old woman’s eyes.

“That’s fine for you to say, Miss Califor. But I don’t want to be a [Witch] like that.”

“You want to bow and scrape and obey laws? Why’d you take the [Witch] class then, Wiskeria? Be a [Mage].”

Alevica laughed incredulously. This time, no one shushed her. Mavika frowned dangerously.

“You speak of the end of [Witches], Wiskeria. We cannot be tamed. We will not be shackled. When law stretches across this world and the wilderness dies—so too will the last [Witch].”

“Maybe. Or maybe we’ll change. Maybe we should change. Mavika. I respect you. But I could never be you. And I can’t be my mother. No matter what she wants of me. I want to have a craft. But my mother’s deeds hang over me. She—I’m guilty because of her. Do you understand?”

“We do. But Wiskeria, she has been herself for thousands of years. Possibly longer. She will not change. And she is a [Witch]. Darker than many, but a [Witch] true. If anyone has yet to fully become a [Witch]—it is you.”

Eloise spoke softly. And Wiskeria’s face crumpled. Alevica glanced away.

She’d had worse coven meetings. In truth, many of them were like this. Younger [Witches] whining about trouble, or older ones complaining. Yes, sometimes you met and did real magic, the kind that made it all worthwhile, like trying to summon a spirit and bind it—or casting a powerful hex or warding spell. But other times it was just an informal gathering and support session.

Alevica was looking for an opportunity to leave when she saw Nanette dutifully hand something to her teacher. The kid had been working on it all this time. What was…?

And then Alevica saw it. It was a few houses crudely shaped out of clay. Six, to be precise. Nanette dutifully placed the last house next to the others. Alevica nodded silently. The other [Witches] watched out of the corner of their eyes as they comforted Wiskeria. So did Alevica.

Califor was doing a working. You could feel her drawing on her power. Now, on the clean wooden table, Califor produced a handful of soil. She must have gathered it from outside. The dry earth sprinkled in a circle around the clay village. Alevica watched as Califor drew a circle around the small clay village and then reached for her flask. The [Witch] sprinkled some water from her flask on the model village. The [Witch] paused, frowned, and then sprinkled more water on top.

Alevica leaned out the window. She felt the magic go out—but the sky didn’t so much as change. She peered at Califor, smirking. Right up until the [Witch] glanced up, peeved. Then Alevica pretended to be studying the ceiling.

“No luck? I tried a little water spell by the river. Had nothing.”

Hedag leaned over, inspecting the village. Eloise pursed her lips silently as Califor glared at the clay village, as if willing it to explode. Nanette was nervous as she shifted by her teacher. Alevica had to admit, it was something. She’d never seen nor heard of Califor failing at any basic spell like this.

“Something is working against my magic.”

“Mine too.”

Hedag nodded. So did Eloise. And then Mavika. Everyone stared at her. The crow [Witch] seemed annoyed.

“My flock has created a crow-sign for rain. It failed. Something is at work here.”

“Or someone.”

Every [Witch] looked at the other speculatively. No one said it. But Alevica could think of a few reasons why these small workings had failed. Either someone was using some powerful magic to alter the weather—or one of them had created a serious working.

It wasn’t as if covens didn’t have [Witches] working towards their own ends. Califor snapped into the sudden silence.

“I trust that everyone understands that this deal with the [Emperor] supersedes all other commitments. This coven gathered to address the attack on [Witches]. To strike a deal for sanctuary. And to deal with Witch Wiskeria’s relationship to Witch Belavierr. Nothing more. Nothing less.”

“Of course.”

Eloise nodded. So did the others. Alevica just grinned. She yawned openly as she got up. The other [Witches] turned to her. Mavika frowned.

“Witch Alevica. Where are you going?”

“Out. It’s been fun, fellow [Witches]. But I’m tired of cheering Wiskeria up and making daggers at each other. If someone’s messing with the weather, isn’t that their right as a [Witch]? …Or whoever’s doing it.”

Alevica smiled cheerily at the others. Califor’s brows snapped together.

“Witch Alevica, if you know something, speak. This endangers all of Riverfarm and the coven’s—”

Alevica theatrically put her hands to her ears, grimacing.

“Dead gods. Are you really Witch Califor? Half the time you’re her, the other half you’re some old woman. I know this is important. Oliyaya talked my ear off when she sent me here. But how much work are we doing for this stupid village?”

Alevica kicked over her chair. Califor looked flatly at her.

“The [Emperor] is the one we’re about, Alevica.”

“Well, pull the river up and make it rain! Can’t you do that? I heard you threaten to wake him up!”

Alevica pointed at Califor, exasperated. The older [Witch] hesitated, and every eye swung towards her. Wiskeria tensed for reasons Alevica didn’t get, and Alevica hated that—that knowing look in Wiskeria. Wiskeria, who refused to have a craft but was Belavierr’s daughter.

Califor’s voice was quiet.

“That was a threat, Alevica. Waking the river would be…very dangerous, if it could even be done. And the river is low, regardless.”

“But you could try.”

“I would not wish to make that my first resort. Or even my last, depending on the circumstances. Alevica, we are a coven. This is a trial fit for your mentor, and if you can help—”

Alevica slammed her hands down on the table and regretted it. She shook out her ringing hands and spat.

“I shouldn’t need to help. You’re Witch Califor! That’s Belavierr, the Spider, and each [Witch] in this room is supposed to be one of the greatest living! What’s wrong with you? I heard stories that you’d become a coward, but I never believed it.”

Her voice was too high-pitched, and she knew, knew they could read her betrayal and the upset feelings in her. Alevica hated that, so she spun towards the door. But she looked back at Califor, daring, hoping she’d say…

Witch Califor had perfect control over her emotions. She sat there, straight-backed, and touched the brim of her hat. Nanette looked ready to fight Alevica, but Califor put out a hand as she replied.

“If that is what you believe, Alevica, I won’t try to change your mind. I apologize for letting down the stories about me.”

Alevica yanked the door open and spat.

“See that, Wiskeria? Don’t listen to these old women. Eloise barely makes her tea, Hedag gets her strength from little children—you want to know why your mom has all her power? It’s because she does what she wants and scares the daylights out of people. That’s what being a [Witch] is. That’s power. Can you match that?”

Alevica grinned mockingly at Wiskeria, aiming all her vitriol at the one person she felt deserved it wholeheartedly. She was rewarded with Wiskeria’s glare and flushed cheeks. Wiskeria paused, then snapped back.

“No. And neither can you. Even you can’t take misery and grief like she can, Alevica. That’s why she called you weak.”

The Witch Runner’s cheeks went crimson. She clenched a hand, then glared at Wiskeria. She made a sign that made Nanette gasp and stormed out of the house.



—–



Alevica went flying. She was still fuming, but soaring through the sky above Riverfarm made her feel better. Up high, everything was better. People were little dots, and she stared down at them. The trouble was that, even flying, Alevica couldn’t shake Wiskeria’s and her mother’s words.

“Weak? I’ll show you who’s weak! You can’t even do a major working! I can!”

The Witch Runner shouted as she flew faster and faster. She could fly! Wiskeria was as weak as Nanette! But—Alevica could also feel herself burning her magic. She couldn’t fly long. And she was furious because she knew Belavierr was right. Grudges and envy and anger had some magic, but it wasn’t strong. Alevica found that seeping the enjoyment from her as she flew.

And it was hot. The sun beat down overhead. Alevica glared up at it. Someone was affecting the weather, she was certain. It wasn’t her. But it could have been any of the [Witches]. Or—someone else. When she thought of that, Alevica decided to go on a hunt.

The thing about flying was that she could travel faster than even Charlay for a while. And being this high up meant that Alevica could potentially spot a working if one of the [Witches] had hidden it. She didn’t know what she was looking for, but Alevica could see magical power just as well as any [Mage]. And she bet she could recognize a working if someone like Hedag or Eloise had laid it. Califor or Belavierr…? Well, it was worth looking.

Alevica crisscrossed the skies, seeking out places of power. You could follow old ley lines in the ground, places where magic was stronger. That would be a likely spot. Not that there were any old gravesites or magical ponds about. Mavika was right, in her way. As civilization progressed, people took the magic out of the world.

The old [Witches] in Alevica’s real coven loved to yammer on about how you couldn’t go two miles without tripping over a magical cairn or something. Alevica wished she’d been born in those days. When there was power waiting to be tapped instead of weak emotions—

“Hello. Who’s that?”

The [Witch] spotted something on her third flight over the area. She swooped down and spotted him. A…man. But there was power about him. Magic? He was hiding in a stand of trees, as dried as the earth. And he saw her at the same time as she saw him.

There was no running. He didn’t even try. The man with the odd hat walked towards her. Smiling. It was an uncanny smile. Too wide with too many teeth. Actually, it was the same kind of smile Alevica liked to give. A predator’s grin.

“Hello there. You must be that [Witch Hunter] Ryoka was talking about.”

Alevica casually reached for her crossbow and shortsword as she alighted on the ground. She was running out of mana after so much flying. But she’d found the man, and she had Skills for fighting too. The man eyed her as Alevica alighted.

“Well, I’m delighted to be so popular. Good evening, Miss…Witch?”

“What gave it away?”

Alevica grinned. She eyed the man up and down. Yup. Hat, clothing—all of it matched the former [Witch Hunters]. Another one? Alevica felt a twinge of danger. But she was dangerous too. She pointed at him.

“And who’re you?”

“Just a traveller—”

“Yeah?”

Alevica drew her crossbow. The man paused.

“You wouldn’t shoot an unarmed traveller, Miss?”

“I don’t see anyone watching us.”

Alevica bluffed. She was watching the man carefully. He had lots of power about him. Strange—she was having a hard time reading him. He was far too calm. He wasn’t a [Mage]—but—

“Why don’t you tell me why you’re hanging around, causing trouble for my kind? And if you try to run, I’ll shoot you and see what I can find on your body.”

That threat should have done something to his emotions, but the man was cool. He just grinned at her. And Alevica began to get uneasy herself. He shrugged, his hands lowering a touch towards his own belt. He had a bag of holding there.

“Just call me a scout, Miss Witch. Or a hunter who deals in fire and retribution to those who deserve it. One of many. But I’d rather not fight with you. What say we go our own ways?”

“And let a [Witch Hunter] go free? You put that [Knight] on Belavierr, didn’t you?”

“Maybe. Could you fault me for that? You [Witches] tend to cause trouble.”

“Yeah. We kill people we don’t like. Who are you? Last question! Answer me!”

Alevica gritted out. She didn’t like the way the man was watching her anymore. She’d identified the emotion coming off him. And it wasn’t fear or even wariness. He was going to try to kill her. It was an almost intangible, cold certainty. He’d been ready to kill her the instant he saw her. She wished she’d stayed on her broom. She warily gripped her sword’s handle. And the man just smiled.

“Miss Witch, I’d fly away. I really would. I have no quarrel with you specifically. But if you want to make this an issue, I’d much rather—”

Alevica fired her crossbow and drew her sword. As she did, she chanted an incantation in her mind.

Sword, cut and bite! Bolt, truest flight!

She saw the bolt curve towards the man. He staggered as he leapt sideways. The bolt stuck out of his side. Alevica charged him. She saw him reach for his belt. His hands flashed as she slashed at his head—

The spear went into her stomach. Alevica realized that after she screamed. She stared at the sword on the ground. The man raised his spear. It was bloody. Her blood. Alevica screamed as she felt the burning again. Desperately, she reached for a potion. Drank it.

It did nothing. Something was burning her insides. Poison. The [Witch] stared up as the man casually kicked her blade away.

“Poor luck, Miss Witch. You should have hit me with that bolt somewhere it mattered.”

He lifted the spear, then reconsidered.

“[Witches] cast curses with their dying breath. Or so the textbooks say. I can’t risk one now. Curse me and I’ll finish you off. Otherwise—you can hope someone finds you.”

He walked away. Alevica tried to shout after him. Swear that if he didn’t give her the antidote, she would curse him. But all she could do was scream.

The pain was burning. The poison—Alevica realized she was bleeding. Dying. The Witch Runner whispered. Magic. She had to call on her magic.

“Poison bites and tears away. But—but life, hold and stay! Blood, thicken and stop! Stop! Call help and give aid! Before this [Witch]’s life fades—”

She tried to pour her magic into the spell. But she couldn’t focus. She was slowing the bleeding. But she couldn’t pour energy into a working. Alevica lay there, clutching at her stomach. The poison was eating her up. The blood…trickled…away…

It was hot. Alevica screamed for help. And then her voice gave out. She lay there, the world fading. Her magic fading. Until she heard galloping hooves and an urgent voice.

“She’s here! She’s here! Ryoka! She’s hurt!”

Alevica heard someone racing towards her. She felt something huge kneel. A huge body. Not a Human’s. As hard to read as that man. Alevica couldn’t do non-Humans well—

“Alevica! It’s me!”

Charlay? The Centauress grabbed Alevica. Then she saw the blood.

“You need a potion! Ryoka! Ryoka!”

“I’m here! I—”

Someone. Blurry shapes. Alevica looked up. She felt a cool hand on her. Babbling voices.

“—stabbed her. Help me get—”

“Who? Nearby?”

“—matter. Potion?”

“No.”

Alevica could groan the words. She spoke desperately.

“No potion. Poison.”

“Poison?”

The two voices babbled. And then someone picked Alevica up. She screamed and cursed, but the hands pushed her up. Then someone was holding her as she was bounced. Each bounce took more blood away. Someone was babbling at her to stay awake. Stay awake—

“Emperor Laken’s close by, Alevica. Close enough for him to locate you when you didn’t come back. Hold on. We’ll get you to Riverfarm. Charlay, run. She’s not going to make it—”

“I’m trying. Just hold her! [Lightning Gallop]—”

“Eloise. Eloise.”

Alevica begged. She didn’t know what was happening anymore. Someone was slapping her. And then she was flying. Flying and falling. Into the darkness. Until she felt the power and the [Witch] who held it.



—–



“She’s dying. She’s lost too much blood. The potions don’t work with the poison in her. She needs a transfusion—”

Ryoka was babbling. She was still trying to apply pressure. Eloise stared down at Alevica’s pale face, the tinge of green in the wound.

“She will not die. My coven, hold Alevica here while I work. I’m familiar with poisons as well as teas and herbs. I can counter it. Give me a moment.”

The old [Witch] spread her herbs on the table next to Alevica. The [Witch] was so pale and still. Even the blood had stopped oozing. But maybe that was because of the [Witches] who stood around her.

All of them were there. Wiskeria, Hedag, Califor, Nanette, Mavika, even Belavierr. And they gazed down on Alevica. It was dusk. The light cast long shadows on their faces. But their eyes had a luminescence of their own.

“Hold her. Give her strength.”

Eloise ordered the others. And Alevica’s chest seemed to rise and fall only by virtue of the [Witches]’ stares. Nanette’s face was pale. Califor’s eyes focused on Alevica’s face. Hedag leaned on her axe, her eyes blazing.

“Mother. Can you save her?”

Wiskeria never looked away from Belavierr. The Stitch Witch paused. And her voice was heavy with power.

“—My magic is scattered and burnt low. Witch Eloise surpasses me in this moment. Hold her.”

“We cannot. She is dying.”

The raven on Mavika’s shoulder called once, echoing the [Witch]’s words. Eloise was mixing something, spreading it on Alevica’s stomach. Wiskeria clenched her hands.

“No! No! She can’t die!”

“She is fading. She has lost too much blood.”

“It isn’t right.”

“If we’d been faster—”

Ryoka clutched at her head. She was trying to figure out how to transfuse blood. Tubes? No! She couldn’t cut Alevica. She glanced around desperately. A funnel. But she needed to test Alevica’s blood type—

They hadn’t noticed Alevica was gone until into the evening. And then the coven had grown concerned. The older [Witches] had felt…something. Laken’s [Message] had come at the right moment. He’d found her. But—

“She can’t die. She can’t! We need more power!”

Wiskeria looked around desperately. Belavierr’s eyes began to glow, then stopped.

“I have not enough. We are holding her on the edge of life. We need more to pull her back.”

She looked up. Wordlessly, at Ryoka. The City Runner shouted. She saw people crowded around the house, staring in. So Ryoka called out.

“Take it from me!”

“And me!”

Charlay called from the door. The Centauress’ eyes were wide. Wiskeria gazed at them. Mavika hissed.

“Then give me your passion! Give us feelings! Strong as can be!”

Ryoka peered at Alevica. She was rude, arrogant, she’d burned Charlay’s tail, but she didn’t deserve this—

“I take your desperation.”

“I take your grief.”

“I take your rage.”

Mavika, Belavierr, and Hedag spoke as one. Ryoka felt it go out of her. She stared at Alevica, suddenly blank. A bit empty. The [Witch]’s eyes flickered. Mavika whispered.

“Not enough. More.”

The [Witches] turned to the crowd. And the people shuddered. But Wiskeria shouted towards them.

“She’s dying! Someone’s stabbed her! Don’t you feel a thing? Feel something! We’re trying to save her!”

The people heard. Some—some felt what Ryoka had felt and it was taken. But too many just stared. And Ryoka heard the word, unspoken.

[Witch].

They did not care for her. They did not care, truly care, if Alevica died. What the crowd saw, what they experienced, was…

Helplessness. Just as when they had seen Belavierr facing Ser Raim. Desperation—hope—longing—anger—fear—it wasn’t strong enough. No one emotion. What could sum up the death? The loss? It wasn’t right. But they did not know Alevica. She was a [Witch], and they did not know her. But someone had killed her—

Ryoka could see the [Witches] trying to pull power from the crowd. But they weren’t any one thing. They weren’t afraid. They weren’t angry enough either. It was just horror and pain and loss—but numbed after what they had seen. Wiskeria screamed.

“It’s not enough. Can’t you feel anything? This isn’t right! This isn’t right! Why don’t you care?”

And they looked at her. Belavierr’s daughter. And at Alevica. The reaching [Witches] took nothing. They closed their eyes as Alevica’s breathing slowed. Wiskeria peered around desperately. Then she felt something. She pulled, and the crowd gasped. Ryoka’s eyes went wide. It went out of her too as she grasped Alevica’s hand. That emotion. That—

And the power went into the [Witch], and she opened her eyes. Ryoka saw Eloise press the poultice to her and speak.

“Pull!”

Each of the [Witches] reached down. They grasped a part of Alevica. Ryoka, holding Alevica, felt a jolt of something more alive than electricity hit her. She jerked back. Alevica jerked. She sat upright, head smacking into Nanette’s, and screamed.

“No!”

The poultice fell away, black and wet. Alevica’s stomach was raw, bloody. Eloise splashed a potion on Alevica as the [Witch] flailed. And then she was alive. Wiskeria staggered back into her mother’s arms. Nanette cradled her head as Califor drew her back. The [Witch] slapped Alevica on the back of the head as the Witch Runner flailed, slashing with a sword she didn’t have. Alevica stopped. She blinked down at her stomach as it began to heal.

“What—what—”

Nanette called out urgently.

“Alevica! What happened?”

The [Witch]’s face was deathly pale. She jerked, staring around.

“Which one of you—the power—”

All of the [Witches] were watching Wiskeria. They looked back at Alevica as she jerked again, still in shock. The words came out in a rush.

“The bastard had a spear. And—artifacts. Lots of ‘em. I sensed them on him. I didn’t think he’d be that fast—he had poison on it!”

“Who?”

Ryoka leaned over the table urgently. Alevica gazed at her. Her mouth worked.

“The man with the smile.”



—–



Hours later, Ryoka was standing in conference with several [Witches], Rie, Prost, and her own dark thoughts. She had heard everything from Alevica before the Witch Runner had passed out. And Charlay had repeated her encounter with the man—as had Ryoka. It wasn’t conclusive. But he had just bumped himself up on the list of people Ryoka suspected of…something.

The drought? Or just the attack on Belavierr? Either way, he’d tried to kill Alevica. But who was he? No one knew. Worse still, he’d vanished. Mavika was the last to return. Her crows landed, cawing loudly, and the [Witch] herself walked into the home. She looked…angry. Only, angry didn’t describe the hunched, elongated form. The nails that resembled talons. For a moment, as the [Witch] stepped out of the night, she looked like something else. Something that hunted and screamed in the darkness of mankind’s dreams.

The Humans shuddered and drew back. Ryoka waited as Mavika seemed to shrink. The [Witch] spoke curtly.

“This [Hunter] of yours moves quick. My crows could not find him. And they flew wide. Even with a horse, he was fast to outrun wings.”

“You lost him?”

“We searched miles. Either he hid with powerful spell, or he raced so fast as to be a bird himself.”

The [Witch] glared. The conference room was silent. Ryoka drummed her fingers on the table. Lady Rie spoke briskly.

“Laken’s nearby enough that we can ask him to locate the [Witch Hunter]. He can sense everything on his lands, and we replaced all his totems.”

The others nodded. Ryoka bit her lip as Nesor sent a [Message]. The reply came back slowly as Nesor scribbled it line by line on a piece of parchment with agonizing slowness. Ryoka read it with the others, crowding to see.



Ryoka, Durene—all—I am searching for the [Witch Hunter] you described. I cannot find him. The [Witches] I can sense. Belavierr is…different. Not Human? I also sensed a Centauress? Ryoka’s friend Charlay? Among others? A number of non-Humans on my lands! I am closing in on Riverfarm. Do not kill the Goblins hiding in the forest, please. I will aid as best I can as soon as I get there. News about lack of rain troubles me. It is still raining where we are. Why? Circle of Thorns?



“So. Is this my death?”

Belavierr whispered into the silence that followed. Everyone stared at her. The Stitch Witch looked back. Wiskeria was still staring at her hands. She had been ever since Alevica had been saved. And her mother—Belavierr’s eyes flickered upwards. As if tracing a thread only she could see.

No one had any answers. Alevica was sleeping under Eloise’s watchful gaze. Hedag was walking the perimeter of Riverfarm, and Califor was attending to Nanette. The other [Witches] kept their own council. Belavierr shared none of her thoughts. Ryoka made hers clear to Durene, Rie, Prost, and Charlay.

“What do we know? That man seems incredibly suspicious. But is he responsible for the lack of rain? I got in touch with Fierre, and she said that a man with his description paid her to alert the Order of Seasons. But who is he?”

Rie tapped on her lips.

“A [Witch Hunter] trying to kill Belavierr?”

“Or a member of this Circle of Thorns. Does it matter, Ryoka? Laken can find him. He can sense everything on his lands. He’ll get him and tell us, and we’ll find him and make him talk.”

Durene pounded a fist into one hand. Ryoka nodded dubiously. It couldn’t be that easy? Could it? She waited, with Nesor, in the room as it slowly emptied. The [Mage] was uncomfortable. But no matter how long Ryoka waited, until she was yawning with fatigue, no reply from Laken came.

They were sleeping, dozing, when Ryoka took to Durene’s cottage for sleep. She told herself Laken would send a [Message] tomorrow. But she had only slept an hour before someone hammered at Durene’s door.

“Ryoka, wake up!”

It was Beniar. The [Cataphract] hadn’t news from Laken, though. He practically dragged Ryoka towards the village.

“What is it?”

The former adventurer’s face was serious. He pointed towards Riverfarm, where some torches blazed.

“There’s a group of people outside Riverfarm. My [Riders] stopped them. They say they know you. They’re asking to be let in.”



Day 69 – Ryoka



“Fire.”

Ryoka looked at the [Archer]. She remembered the man. Only, she had known him only by the bow he carried. His had been the first settlement she’d come to. The one guarded by the independent group of people with bows who’d refused to move to Riverfarm.

They were here now. And they carried only a few possessions. One bow. Half had burns. The others were white with exhaustion. Fear. Loss. Ryoka stared at the man’s face. She hadn’t even known his name. It was Nale. He held his wife and looked at her.

She could feel it. All the pieces were falling into place. An invisible pattern making itself known. And it made itself known through tragedy. Nale’s face was pale. Still covered in soot. His wife clung to his side. The group had come straight from their settlement. It was still dark. And the fires were still burning.

“The entire barn went up in seconds. We tried to fight it—but it was too dry. We barely got out.”

Nale’s voice cracked. His wife wept into his shoulder. The [Archer] peered helplessly at Ryoka.

“It was too fast. Too fast, and our wells were too low. The drought—”

“We lost everything. Everything. The animals went up. Dead gods, we couldn’t get them.”

Another woman leaned on a wall. She was too shocked to even sit. Prost seemed deeply disturbed. Ryoka just stared at Nale. And then she got up. She hesitated. And then she reached out and put an arm on his shoulder.

She didn’t know if it was the right thing to do. The man stiffened. But it was all Ryoka could do. Then he relaxed. And he began to shake. Ryoka didn’t know him. But they stood together, two people. And she looked at his wife as she rested a hand on the woman’s arm. Looked into her eyes.

“You can stay here. Riverfarm needs people like you. There’s room for you. And everyone.”

She glanced past them at Prost. The [Steward] nodded.

“Of course. We’d be delighted to have the folks of Tabeil here.”

The group’s eyes filled with relief. They relaxed, and more tears were shed. Ryoka stayed with them. But she had to go. She had to excuse herself. Because her mind was racing.

“Fire. We have an arsonist. Or maybe it’s just the drought. Either way, we need to take precautions now.”

She gathered Prost, Rie, and the coven. Rie nodded, eyes wide, as voices rose, talking over each other.

“The water. We can put in barrels around the village.”

“This entire place is made of wood. It’ll go up like a bonfire if a fire isn’t caught.”

“Patrols, then. No one sets a fire here. Day and night we check for that bastard. If he is causing fires—”

“It could just be coincidence. Hell, one bit of heat lightning would start a fire. We need more precautions.”

Ryoka regarded the [Witches]. Hedag exchanged a glance with Califor. The [Witches] nodded. Hedag turned back to Ryoka. The [Executioner] nodded.

“In that case, we’ll do as all folks do in face of a fire. Dig a ditch. A firebreak. Here and here—far enough away from the village that flames won’t jump it. We’ll also remove brush. Tinder—anything that goes up easy.”

She pointed, indicating areas outside the village proper. Ryoka blinked. Califor nodded.

“Of course. Clear a space and a fire has nothing to feed on. You. [Steward]. Put all of your people to this task. We will clear a wide enough space that no sparks may jump across the break.”

She marched past Prost and began ordering people into teams as Hedag described how deep the firebreak should be. Ryoka stared, blinking. Trust [Witches] to have sensible solutions instead of magic. But Ryoka would have really preferred actual magical solutions to this drought. When she asked, though, Eloise only shook her head, seeming troubled.

“We’ve been trying. All of us have cast charms. But short of a powerful working, we cannot change this weather.”

“Can you do one, then? A working?”

The [Witch] pursed her lips.

“Perhaps. But we would rather do it on a full moon, at the height of our strength. We have used much saving Alevica. She is still healing, so our coven is incomplete. And Belavierr—we could attempt one tonight. But Miss Ryoka, I fear we lack the power to shift whatever is affecting this weather. None of us specialize in weather magic.”

She looked directly at Ryoka, then at Belavierr. The Stitch Witch’s silence seemed to indicate she was too weak to help at the moment. As for Ryoka? The City Runner hesitated. She nodded at last.

“Please try, then. Tonight.”

Eloise nodded. That left Ryoka with Charlay and Durene. The City Runner paced.

“The [Witches] might manage to lift the spell. Unless they’re behind it.”

“Or that [Witch Hunter] is actually a [Weather Mage] of some sort.”

Charlay pawed the ground nervously. Durene restlessly clenched and unclenched her fists. They could feel it too. Something—Ryoka looked around. The wind was so silent. Something was controlling it too. She sat down at the table. And she tried to force a connection.

“What do we know? Either it’s a mysterious hunter who’s been lurking about, someone we haven’t seen, or a [Witch]. And the motive’s clearly to hurt Riverfarm. Maybe even start some fires. Who knows? But more importantly, who gains from this?”

Charlay frowned. Ryoka went on, thumping the heels of her hands into her forehead.

“Who wins if Riverfarm collapses? If Belavierr dies as well? The Circle of Thorns, right? Or…”

She looked up.

“Magnolia Reinhart. She’s not a fan of Laken. And I bet she doesn’t want someone like Belavierr around.”

“Magnolia Reinhart?”

Durene seemed astonished and worried. Charlay started, but Ryoka was already pulling back from the idea as soon as she voiced it.

“No. No—this isn’t her style. She doesn’t kill innocent people. I think. The Circle of Thorns, then.”

But she had no proof. No proof of anything. Ryoka rested her head in her hands. She sat there, her mind running in circles, slamming into invisible walls. She was missing something. She couldn’t see what the angle was. She had no proof.

She only moved when she heard the voice. It rang from rooftop to rooftop in Riverfarm. It was a shout. A call. A challenge. It broke through Ryoka’s stupor. Wiskeria’s voice.

“Mother!”

There she stood. A [Witch] wearing a dark blue hat. She stood in the middle of the street. And a [Witch] wearing a wide hat with ringed eyes and a dress as dark as her sins walked to meet her. Ryoka stumbled out of the house. And Riverfarm gathered.

Furtively. Hanging back. They feared her. But they came anyways. For spectacle, perhaps. Out of fear of what new event might befall them. But perhaps—perhaps also because of hope. Because on one side stood a monster. The Stitch Witch. On the other, her daughter. And the people of Riverfarm knew Wiskeria.

She held her wand. And another hand held her hat. The [Witch] faced her mother. And Belavierr walked towards her. She ignored the looks. She had eyes only for her daughter.

“Daughter. Have you found your craft? Do you hate me still?”

“Yes. And yes, Mother. I have told you once and again. I cannot forgive what you do.”

Belavierr sighed. But her eyes were focused on Wiskeria.

“Daughter. I am a [Witch]. You know what this means. If you cannot accept me, how can you accept any of our kind? Shall I tell you of Mavika’s sins? She has done black deeds and fair. What is the difference between she and I?”

Mavika stood in the crowd, waiting. Califor and Nanette walked to join them. Hedag and Eloise waited, faces expectant. Alevica slept. Wiskeria shook her head. And she looked past Belavierr at Mavika.

“I know what Mavika has done. Or I can guess. But, Mother—it may be selfish. But I only care about you. You alone I cannot forgive. Because I see what you do. So. I’m telling you here and now that I will stop you. I believe there are laws that [Witches] should obey. I believe we should obey them. My coven tells me that [Witches] cannot exist in cities. And I have been a [Witch], and I have walked through cities as an adventurer. I say—we can be [Witches] even under law. And I will be that [Witch].”

She spoke the words, focusing on her mother’s eyes. And Belavierr sighed. The expectant light faded from her.

“Daughter. Laws bind us. Laws constrain us. To be a [Witch] is to follow our passions. What passion, what craft have you that could exist in a city?”

“My passion, Mother, is born out of my disgust for you! Don’t you see? You are what I want to stop!”

Wiskeria cried out, and Belavierr’s eyes flickered. She stood taller, and the shadows rose around her.

“And what could such a [Witch] take? Goodwill from those you help? Fleeting gratitude? Anger from those you oppose? Daughter, what is your craft?”

She gazed at the faces of the people around her. And the Stitch Witch’s eyes showed only contempt. Riverfarm’s people shouted at her. But their anger burnt away before her stare. Their hope turned to ash in their mouths. She took their fear and hatred. Leaving Wiskeria with…

Nothing? No. Ryoka felt it in her chest too. Even as Belavierr’s eyes filled her with fear. Something—a longing that even Belavierr’s horror couldn’t touch. Ser Raim had given it fire. And Wiskeria pulled it from Ryoka. She raised her wand. And the wind blew. Ryoka looked up. Belavierr’s eyes widened. And the [Witches] stared. Wiskeria pointed up and closed her eyes. She spoke a word.

“Justice.”

A bolt of lightning fell from the skies. It flashed down and struck Belavierr.

The world rocked. Stray jolts of electricity arced onto the ground, igniting pieces of wood, the street—the force of the explosion cratered the ground. A killing spell for all but its target.

Witch Belavierr? She was knocked backwards, onto the ground, and lay on her back, staring up at the sky. Uninjured.

Of course she was. Yet even if she wore a bitter smile—Wiskeria caught the lightning as it tried to flee in every direction. She held it for a second. And it shone in her hands. Then she aimed it back up into the sky. The bolt split the heavens.

Belavierr stared up at her daughter from where she had been flung to the ground. And Wiskeria swept her hat from her head and bowed. Mockingly. Challengingly. And Riverfarm screamed her name.

“I will never be a [Witch] like you. I will be something else. Something better. And I swear I will stop you. Even if it takes me my entire life, I will become a [Witch] who can end what you do! That is my craft! And this is my magic!”

She pointed at Belavierr and turned away. The Stitch Witch lay there. And Wiskeria’s coven watched their [Witch]. All of them slowly raised their hats and tipped them. Hedag was laughing. Eloise smiled with pure delight. Califor nodded, and Mavika smiled for a moment. Nanette’s eyes were shining.

And Belavierr? She lay on her back as Riverfarm’s people dispersed. A black shadow on the ground. Ryoka went over to her. And she looked down as Belavierr stared up at the sky. The Stitch Witch’s face was expressionless. And then—

She beamed. Ryoka jumped back. Around her, people were stomping on the stray sparks, applauding Wiskeria or following her—Nanette was slapping at a burning ember with her hat.

Belavierr spoke upwards, a smile on her face, as Ryoka stared at her.

“My daughter has a purpose.”

She sat up in one motion. And she stood in another. She regarded Ryoka, delighted. Ecstatic. Ryoka stared at her.

“But she hates you.”

Belavierr paused. Something like sorrow flickered in her gaze. And something else.

“If it is hating me, I will be her hate. That is my love for her. But let her be a better [Witch] than I. But let her live. Ryoka Griffin, the threads draw closer. Can you see whence my death comes?”

“No. I’m missing something. I don’t know what. I can’t figure out what this is all about!”

The City Runner shook her head. Her heart was pounding. Belavierr leaned forwards.

“You lack a thread. Then see it. This is what you seek. I see it. Tell me my death.”

She pointed. And Ryoka saw Nesor running towards her. The [Mage] had a bit of parchment in his hands.

“A [Message] from Laken! Miss Ryoka—”

The City Runner snatched the parchment from his hands. Belavierr turned away. She smiled as she left. And Ryoka read. She blinked. And read again.



Ryoka. I scanned every part of my lands for a guy with a hat like you mentioned lurking about. No one. I missed the fire, but it wasn’t [Bandits]. Beniar rode down the last of them yesterday. Only travellers on the road look like a few Runners, some travellers including those refugees, and a…lizard-person [Merchant]? Drake? No [Hunter] either way.

“No hunter? But—”

Ryoka’s mind whirled. Could he have escaped? But Laken’s vision as [Emperor] was perfect. Could you cheat it? She looked at Nesor. The young [Mage]’s face was pale. Ryoka turned.

“You said it was the last clue. But how—”

Belavierr was gone. Ryoka stared after her. And then she slowly peered down at the parchment.

A man. A [Witch Hunter]. Or so she’d thought.

‘Izril has few of my kind, I’m sorry to say, although we’ve been present in greater numbers in times past.’

A stranger who appeared on the roads. Who never got too close. He’d never said who he was.

‘[Witches] tend to see right through me, and I think I’d be at odds with them.’

The fake [Witch Hunters] had done their utmost to escape Califor rather than have her inspect them. He’d tried to kill Alevica when he’d had the chance, but he’d stayed far away from the older [Witches].

He’d told Alevica he was a…scout. A hunter who dealt in retribution in fire. Ryoka’s pulse began to accelerate.

That smile. That huge, grinning, toothy smile. The kind that made Humans uneasy. Because people didn’t smile like that. It was a sign of aggression. But Ryoka remembered a city where people smiled like that. Every. Single. Day. Two species smiled like that.

And one of them could fly. A few of them. There used to be more. Ryoka looked down at the parchment. Laken had said ‘non-Humans’ the first time. And this time—no one had ever mentioned a Drake [Merchant].

“Nesor. Send a [Message] back to Laken. Ask him what this Drake looks like.”

The [Mage] paused. Slowly, he put his fingers on his temples. He spoke the response.

“He has scrolls, Ryoka. Lots of scrolls. And wings.”

You could change the weather with scrolls. They were really expensive, though. But why? Ryoka didn’t know why. But she was certain. And before she could ask a second question, Nesor spoke urgently.

“Ryoka. He’s breathing fire. I saw it. He just set a village on fire. Eighteen miles northeast, down the northern road heading left at the crossroads. He has a camp in a stand of trees. Hurry!”

Ryoka’s blood ran cold in a mortal terror.

“Mavika! Get—get Mavika! And Califor! I know who he is! We have to stop him—now!”

Ryoka spun. She screamed a name. Mavika looked up. Ryoka ran. And now the pieces fit. All but one.



—–



She understood who he was. What he was doing. But not why. If she thought about it, she would understand. But it wasn’t something that tied him to Riverfarm. He had never come here before. And he bore this place no great hatred. It was just a place.

But an [Emperor] called it home. That was enough. The man looked up as the crows flew towards him. He sighed as they sped towards him, a murder seeking his death. Then the man grinned. That toothy grin that was the only flaw in a perfect disguise. He shed the illusion spell.

“It seems my time is up.”

The bronze-scaled Drake flexed his wings. The crows paused, wheeling, and then dove. The Drake didn’t fly. He just inhaled as the crows dove through the foliage he was hiding in. And he exhaled.

Fire blasted upwards. Fire, bright and glorious. The flock of crows diving towards the Oldblood Drake screamed and burned. The rest fled, and the [Witch] screamed her wrath, miles distant. The Drake laughed and walked out of the fire.

He didn’t fear the heat. Far hotter heat burned in his veins. He was a child of Dragons. And his blood had thrown truest. He spread his wings. And he did fly then. The Drake mused as he took wing. How had they found him? Had the [Witch] he’d spared identified him?

It didn’t really matter. The preparations were done. The Drake reached for one of the scrolls he carried. He had any number of artifacts. For disguise. To change the weather. A fortune in expendable items. More than any casual Wall Lord could finance. But a Walled City?

Oh yes. A Walled City could stockpile such valuable items. And spend them in times of need. Now, the Drake took a [Message] scroll and wrote a simple line in it. He watched the ink vanish. The note was sent. His cover was blown first. So it was time.

“A day or two sooner than I’d like.”

Another day, and maybe he could have caught the [Emperor] in the plan as well. But the plan still held. No matter.

The Drake mused as he flew across the dry landscape. He beat his wings. Stared down at the scattered villages, lonely houses. They didn’t know why he was doing this. They might never know. And perhaps, they hadn’t had a choice. This new [Emperor] might have forced them to war.

It didn’t really matter. The Humans had come to Liscor to take it. They had brought war. And the Drake had his orders. So he flew down. And he exhaled a plume of fire.

Just one. But that was all it took, wasn’t it? Fire was a terrifying thing. The Drake watched the flames lick into a forest. A dry forest, one made far too dry by the weather changing spells. And the brush caught. The fire began to consume dry bark, leaves. It began to grow. The Drake flew up, satisfied. He caught the thermals. Flew towards the second patch of fuel he’d marked.

He hadn’t known the [Witches] were here. But he and the other [Infiltrators] had been ordered to adapt. It didn’t matter how it had turned out. Win or lose, [Witch] or [Knight], he hadn’t really cared. He’d paid the [Bandits] to attack the [Witches] because they were a hindrance if they spotted him. But either way, Humans had died.

And Terandria? A high-level [Summer Knight] had perished. A [Witch]—one of the old enemies of his people—had been brought low. The fires might still consume her. Both were victories for Drakes, who warred with Terandria and northern Izril. The Drake smiled as he found another forest. He breathed flame. And the tinder caught.

The dry forests began to burn. The grasslands started to blaze. The Drake fanned the flames with his wings, lighting more strategic parts..

Drakes understood fire. They understood how it could move. How fast it could travel. And grow. If the circumstances were right—a single Drake could do more damage than an army. The Drake dispassionately exhaled in the final location. Now, to fan the flames.

“Time for wind. [Weatherchange].”

He raised a scroll. And the wind began blowing. It added air to the growing fires. Began to carry sparks and embers. The Drake laughed to see it. He flew upwards, watching. Waiting. The fire would take longer to grow. But they were one of many.

He was one of many.

Across Izril, the Drakes flew. Oldblood Drakes, each gifted with a breath. A target. Some had set their stages with weather. Others with poison and rot. Still more had simply attacked targets of opportunity. They knew their targets well. The lands of the nobles who had besieged Liscor.

The first bolts of lightning began falling from the skies, striking the Veltras estates. In his manor, Lord Gralton raced into the kennels. Saw the dead and dying dogs. Sick. Poisoned. A Drake spat acid into the water supply as Gralton roared his fury. Another spewed dark fog into the skies before she unsheathed her blades, hunting Pellmia’s lands in the blackness.

Flame. Lightning. Acid. Cloud. Frost. Oldblood Drakes flew, bringing vengeance. And the one who had watched Riverfarm flew.

“Fire for Manus. Fire for Liscor!”

The fire burned and blazed. Spreading. Growing. First an acre of blazing land. Then two spots. Ten. Dozens. And then it was a line of fire a mile long. Two miles. The Drake added to the fire, directing it. Blowing it towards a village. And Ryoka Griffin stared at the sky. Laken paused as he rode towards his home and cried out as his dream became reality.

The [Witches] looked up, and Belavierr saw her death.

There it was. Larger than any mortal threat. More terrifying than an army. Spreading. Growing. Joining together and blazing, fanned by fierce winds, spreading embers through the sky. Feasting on dry ground, a spring’s worth of fuel. Moving towards a village. Burning brighter and racing like—

Wildfire.





6.46 E


Day 69



Fire. Fire for Manus. Fire from the skies. Fire, lightning, acid, fog, ice—the elements of the Dragons. And their children, flying through the skies, bringing death to Human lands. It had come to Riverfarm.

Laken could see it. The Drake was lighting up the entire countryside. This wasn’t undirected arson. There was a strategy to it. The [Emperor] spoke, his throat constricted.

“He’s—igniting every patch of forest in thirty miles. Not just around Riverfarm. Anywhere there’s a settlement. Cities, towns—some of the villages are already in the path of the flames.”

Laken couldn’t see into the villages he didn’t own. But he could see everywhere else. For now. Once again, his map of the landscape was burning. Totems made of wood burned like everything else.

It was too dry. The grass, the forests—everything—was fuel ready to go up without a drop of water in over a week. But that was by design as well.

“Your village must flee, Laken. Now.”

Yitton Byres snapped. The caravan heading towards Riverfarm was stopped, and the [Lord] stood, communicating with the [Mage] frantically sending spells. Laken shook his head.

“Where? And how, Yitton?”

“Towards us. Or towards Gralton’s lands. Anywhere out of the flame’s path!”

“But he’s still moving, Yitton. And he’s cutting them off.”

The [Lord] looked up.

“Who?”

The villagers. One group tried to flee as the flames sprung up near their home. Laken could see them fleeing their village, belongings on their backs, some with wagons hitched to frightened animals. They’d moved fast and left their village quickly, within less than ten minutes of the flames burning towards them.

But the Drake had seen them too. He simply flew down the road and set a fire in the direction of the fleeing villagers. Laken clenched his fists.

“That monster.”

There was a beautiful simplicity to it. Laken Godart didn’t see it, but the Oldblood Drake did. He flew up again, letting the fire do the work that would have taken dozens of Drakes. The villagers would run into the fire. Some might escape if they found a path through the flames or if they were lucky, had Skills; their homes would be gone either way. And so would their livelihoods, the value of the region.

And it had taken only one Drake to do it. One Drake, a few weather-changing scrolls, something to dry the land out, and the right timing. Not only that, he’d engineered the conflict with the Order of Seasons. Weakened the only spellcasters able to do something about this situation—and cast doubt on their actions. Now, the [Witches] were right in the path of the fire. The wind blew towards Riverfarm, fanning the blaze.

It had been less than twenty minutes since it had begun. Already, the fires were linking. Growing bigger and bigger. Laken had heard stories of wildfires before. Australian bushfires. Californian wildfires. But he had never been able to picture them. Now he saw them.

“There’s no way they’ll get through the flames. The fire’s already a hundred feet wide. The villagers aren’t going to make it. They’re turning left—”

But the smoke. The burning embers. Laken shook his head. And it was coming for Riverfarm. He forced himself to turn his attention back to the present. The caravan was staring at him. Goblins, Humans. The [Emperor] looked around.

“Yitton. We’re too far away. We won’t make it. Send word to every city and town in the region. Tell them to prepare for fires headed their way. Evacuate the ones I’m going to name.”

He began reciting names from memory, directing Yitton to find others based on their geography. Trying to find the safest routes away from the blaze. All the while, that damned Drake flew. He was still setting more areas alight.

And he wasn’t the only one.



—–



Tyrion Veltras’ ears rang. The lightning striking his family keep kept falling. The enchanted stones shook. The wards began to give way. The entire building was trembling, but the [Lord] ran.

“Ullim! Sammial! Hethon!”

He bellowed the names of his [Majordomo], his two sons. He found Ullim in his sons’ room. They were hiding under their beds, as if this were an earthquake. Lord Tyrion stared at them.

“Lord Veltras! What’s happening?”

Ullim’s shouts were half-lost in the roar of falling lightning. The room kept lighting up with blinding light. Tyrion bellowed.

“We are under attack! Get my sons into the safe rooms! Move!”

“Father!”

One of his sons shouted, panicked. But Tyrion was already whirling. He ran, shouting, as his servants and guards raced through the keep.

“Jericha! To me!”

The [Mage] raced towards Tyrion, half-dressed, a wand in hand. Tyrion pointed at the windows.

“Drakes!”

He didn’t need to see them hidden in the cloud to know what was causing the lightning. Besides a [Mage] as powerful as Archmage Amerys, only one species could fly and command that much lightning. Jericha nodded.

“There are at least four, Lord Veltras! They’re hitting a city and villages as well! There are two above—I will rally a force of [Archers] and hold the battlements!”

“No. They’ll destroy you. They’re using the storm. Get me the Banner of House Veltras! And my shield! Gather every [Mage] and prepare to sortie!”

Tyrion snapped. Jericha nodded, and both raced through the keep. Lord Tyrion himself strode to the armory where a portion of his house’s treasures were kept. The Banner of House Veltras could shield him from lightning. With it, he and his retainers could hold the keep.

But when the [Lord] strode onto the battlements armed for war, the lightning had already ceased. The Drake Oldbloods had failed to destroy the keep and the enchantments. So the lightning was already falling elsewhere. Tyrion stared across his countryside. And he saw the lightning falling, hitting fields, buildings. People—he raised his sword as Jericha hoisted the glowing banner.

“Warn every city in a hundred miles! There are Drake fliers in the air!”

“We can’t see them or catch them! Lord Veltras—”

Tyrion was already calling for his horse. But he could feel it too in the pit of his stomach. It was a trap. And he realized, as more frantic [Messages] came in, that he wasn’t the only one being targeted.



—–



“Lord Erill’s lands are beset by flame. Lady Ieka’s are suffering from lightning—as is House Veltras! Lord Erill is reporting multiple deaths—Tyrion Veltras is confirming it’s a Drake attack!”

Yitton read the [Messages] being transcribed with shaking fingers. He looked up, pale-faced.

“My home.”

“Does your wife report anything?”

“Nothing. She’s checked the weather, and my guards are on alert—”

“Then House Byres wasn’t considered important enough. Focus, Yitton! They went after me and Gralton instead of you! Can he send any [Riders]? Anyone who can fight a blaze like this?”

Laken snapped at Yitton. The [Lord] looked up. He reached for a message.

“Gralton—the plague. He hasn’t responded, Laken. We received word his kennels were filled with sick dogs—the Drakes must have—”

“Damn his dogs! People are dying!”

The [Emperor] shouted. He whirled. He could see Riverfarm coming alive. They had gotten his messages. But they were so slow. Fire moved too fast. Faster than people could run. Laken turned, his closed eyes seeking Yitton’s voice.

“The Drakes. Tell them to call the attack off. I know it’s them. Tyrion can’t prove it. I can. Tell them it’s the Drakes.”

The [Emperor] saw nothing with his eyes. He heard an intake of breath, Yitton’s voice issuing quick orders. In his head, he watched the flames moving. Saw the [Witches] gathering. Ryoka, Durene, Prost, Rie—his heart—and his people gathering.

Laken Godart waited. But he learned the same thing Ryoka had: it was not just his story. The purpose of [Witches], a pair of City Runners’ journey, the crusade of the Order of Seasons, the return of an [Emperor] and the fate of Goblins—and yes, even the vengeance of Drakes—was all part of a whole. Try as he might, he couldn’t change it all. He was only an actor.

After an agonizing wait that might have taken minutes or hours, measured only by Laken’s furiously beating heart, Yitton replied.

“A—an accusation has been leveled. But the Walled Cities claim ignorance. They reject the idea that Drakes are causing these incidents. Manus suggests this might be unusual Wyvern migrations combined with freak weather—”

Laken whirled away. He clenched his hands. And then he slumped.

“We can’t do anything, then. Just watch. Yitton.”

“Laken?”

“Get the caravan moving. Towards Riverfarm.”

“But the fire—”

The [Emperor] ignored the [Lord]. He turned his head back towards his empire, his home. His people. He shook his head.

“By the time we get there, the fire will be gone. Can’t you see? It’s everywhere. And there’s nowhere to run. Get the caravan moving. And tell Prost—retreat to the fields. The mountain’s no good. That Drake’s setting fire to the forest. The fields. Tell Durene I love her. To stay alive. And ask the [Witches] for help. It all depends on them now.”



—–



At first, the people in Riverfarm refused to believe Ryoka’s warning. They listened to the picture she had put together at last and laughed skeptically, uneasily. But even if they agreed with her—so what? They didn’t understand. After all, how many had even seen a Drake? They couldn’t imagine what Ryoka could, what Laken’s [Message] had made her realize what the [Infiltrator]’s plan was.

But then Mavika screamed as her crows burned, and the smiles left the skeptical faces. Riverfarm and Lancrel’s people looked up as Rie ran into the village, shouting for Prost and calling the alarm with Nesor hot on her heels. Then they saw the smoke in the distance. And above it, the huge, ominous cloud that filled the clear sky.

“Pyrocumulonimbus cloud. That’s what it’s called.”

Ryoka panted as she and Charlay ran towards the closest plume of smoke. Riverfarm was in a growing panic, and Prost was corresponding with Laken. But Ryoka had to see it herself. The Centauress stared at her. Charlay frowned.

“What?”

“The cloud. That’s what it’s called. It’s a cloud made of all the fire.”

It was the most useless piece of information Ryoka could think of in this situation. But her mind wasn’t being sensible. She was panicking. Because she could see the smoke. It was already in the air blowing towards Riverfarm. Ryoka wasn’t controlling it. Something else was. That Drake and his scrolls. Charlay coughed. The whites of her eyes were showing.

“Yeah? How’s that help us?”

“Doesn’t. The fire—”

Ryoka didn’t see it. There was too much smoke coming this way. Charlay groaned, and Ryoka crouched lower, as if that would help. The wind was blowing it straight at Riverfarm.

“That’s a big fire. Ryoka. That’s…really big. As bad as the jungle fires in Baleros. We have to get out of here!”

The Centauress was terrified. She began pawing at the ground, looking around frantically. Ryoka felt it too. Humans had used fire, but some animal part of her was terrified. It could sense the flames. Worse—the rational part of her agreed.

“It’s—there’s too many spots. Damn it, the fire’s everywhere!”

Ryoka pointed. The flames weren’t coming in any one direction. There was smoke directly ahead of them. And another patch to the left, a third far to the right—was that a fourth plume of smoke behind it? The young woman coughed as she turned back to Riverfarm.

It made so much sense. Normal fires didn’t happen like this. Wildfires happened in her world, but even arson was limited. Fire had been used in war, but this was different. That Drake could breathe fire and fly. Moreover, he was changing the wind to amplify the flames. The lack of rain had prepared this area for a truly deadly fire. This was beyond anything from her home.

“It’s coming.”

The two Runner girls felt the smoke intensify. Coughing, Ryoka turned.

“We have to go. Charlay? Charlay!”

The Centauress was frozen. Then she turned and galloped past Ryoka. But not before Ryoka had seen her head turning wildly, trying to find a path of escape. That was the problem. The fire had engulfed the north and was spreading east. But more fires were popping up. If they ran south—

The Drake was still out there. Ryoka could see it clearly. He wanted them to run. He could set a fire anywhere he wanted. If they stayed, they died. If they ran, they died.

But Riverfarm was innocent! She wanted to scream it at him. Riverfarm’s people hadn’t participated in the attack on Liscor! But Laken had. Riverfarm’s [Engineers] had made the trebuchets. And did it even matter? The Drakes wanted to hurt the Humans. What was easier than destroying villages, farms, cities? Destroying the infrastructure of the north with a single Drake?

They had to stop it. Ryoka ran back into Riverfarm with Charlay, coughing and panting. Now, a crowd had gathered and was staring at the horizon. Ryoka panted as Rie rushed out of the house, a slip of parchment in her hands.

“Is it…?”

“Fire. It’s everywhere. North, east—and more’s coming.”

Ryoka pointed to a smoke plume to the west. Encirclement. Lady Rie looked uneasily down the south road. Ryoka stared west. The mountain that had once buried Riverfarm lay that way. But to get to it, they’d have to go straight through a forest. And she wondered if the fire was already growing there.

It reminded Ryoka of the wildfires that would torch California back home. Prost was giving rapid orders, but Riverfarm’s people were trying to grab valuables, thinking of their village.

If they were not out of the reach of the flames now, they were dead. At the moment, the blazes might be small enough to avoid, but soon they would become a vision of real hell, a storm that would leave only embers in its wake.

How fast would the fires move? Ryoka had no idea how far away they were, but she feared the worst. This wasn’t an accidental fire; this was arson, and more and more patches of flame kept appearing.

“What did Laken say? Rie, is there any way for us to take?”

Ryoka looked desperately at Lady Rie. Laken could see the countryside! If they could make a break for it—there were thousands of people in Riverfarm. They’d lose everything. But…stay? Riverfarm was made out of wood.

Rie’s face was pale. She looked around. The crowd was pushing forwards. Someone screamed.

“What’s going on? We demand answers!”

Councilwoman Beatica looked as terrified as the rest. Ryoka spun. Beniar and the Darksky Riders were dismounted, keeping people back. Rie looked at Ryoka.

“The [Witches].”

“What?”

“His Majesty says flight is unlikely to succeed. He is calling upon the coven to stop the fires if they can. Can they?”

She gaped at Ryoka. And the young woman only gulped because she didn’t know. She turned with Lady Rie.

“Where are they?”

Then Ryoka really looked around. She realized the [Witches], always so noticeable with their pointed hats, were nowhere to be seen. And Riverfarm’s people, many of which would have given anything to see the end of the [Witches], realized that at the moment they were needed—they’d disappeared.

Fear began to turn into panic. And the flames came onward as the sky turned black and red.



—–



The coven was, by universal consensus, one of the worst covens to have ever formed in the history of [Witches]. No one would debate that. Mother and daughter? [Witches] at odds with each other? Having to meet to discuss crises instead of gathering for a monthly or bimonthly meeting at most? That was not the function a coven should occupy.

But sometimes, a coven handled disasters. And so they met. Eight [Witches]. Alevica had to be helped into a chair; the Witch Runner was still pale and weak. Even Belavierr looked focused. The [Witches] sat down, murmuring.

“Tea, anyone?”

“Just a cup.”

“Got anything to eat?”

“Stale jerky.”

“Pass it over.”

Rustling. Chomping sounds from Hedag and Mavika. Silence. And then a voice.

“Well, this is a mess, isn’t it?”

Wiskeria looked at Hedag. The [Executioner] leaned against the table, and her smile was bitter.

“Looks like it’s a mess of a war, then. The Drakes and Humans fighting. Messy business.”

“Not what we came for. But what we are needed for, clearly.”

Califor’s cup was steady in her hands, but she was glancing at Nanette. Belavierr just sat there, unmoved by the warring of species. Her eyes were focused on something else.

Her promised death—and her daughter, who refused to meet Belavierr’s eyes. Wiskeria glanced out the window. All the [Witches] could feel it. The fire was a distant power, growing in strength. Wiskeria shuddered. Alevica looked pale and weak as she met Wiskeria’s eyes. Nanette was frightened. The older [Witches] glanced at each other. Eloise put down her cup.

“The odds we could stop something like that?”

Mavika hissed.

“I cannot conjure rain. And that blaze the Drake sets would devour my flock. Him, I mark and blame. But I can do nothing of the flame.”

Hedag nodded.

“If it were a regular forest fire, I’d trust to fire breaks and the river. But the wind blows ill. I’ve seen it blow like this twice before, and both times the villages were lost in front of that fire. It will travel across rivers and consume before rains take it. And not a moment before. Califor? Could you wake the river?”

The [Witch] tapped a finger on the table as the others looked to her. Her voice was…cautious, which said a lot about the risks if a forest fire was bearing down on them.

“He’s slept long and deep, and the water’s low. Waking him might do little at all; the river might well flee. I would rather summon rain. A grand working.”

At this, the coven stirred. Alevica burst out, nervous.

“Wait, a real working? Oliyaya’s only ever taken me to one, and that was with two full moons and a place of power! We have none of these things, and it’s not even our land! Do we have the magic for it? Is this even our fight?”

The question went around the circle. The other [Witches] shrugged or frowned. Wiskeria held her breath. Califor’s gaze focused on Alevica.

“We have the need, Witch Alevica, and that must be enough. There is time yet to stop this—if the wildfires keep growing, it will become a force no [Witch] can stop. Before that moment—we will try.”

Her words about the wildfire becoming unstoppable earned a faint scoffing sound—from Belavierr. However, when Califor stared hard at her, the Witch of Webs simply nodded her head.

“Your plan is sound…if the goal were to save this village, Witch Califor. The coven came to entreat an [Emperor] on behalf of [Witches]. In face of this Circle of Thorns and old threats returning. But if there is no empire, our purpose is gone. Is the magic worth the cost?”

It was the most pragmatic thing anyone had ever heard from her—and at the worst time.

“Witch Belavierr! We cannot leave this village in front of the flames.”

Eloise snapped as she put down her cup. Califor faced down Belavierr.

“Better we attempt to stop the fires to save ourselves, Witch Belavierr. Or do you believe we ourselves could escape this fire unhindered? It has the width and breadth of wildfire.”

“I could. I can.”

Belavierr looked unconcerned. However, it was Wiskeria who snapped back.

“Then leave, Mother. Run away again. But I’ll tell you this—I will stay with Riverfarm’s people. I’ll throw all my magic and craft into that working and face the fire alone, if I must.”

The Witch of Webs’ eyes shifted sideways to Wiskeria, and her look of impartiality faded. Slowly, she exhaled.

“Ah. And thus my death remains. Very well, Witch Califor, a grand working. It can be done, even with my reduced power. If there are enough catalysts; string and needle are my crafts. Fire I have never been proficient at. And that man who burned me…”

She grimaced, and for a second, everyone remembered the burnt effigy of a woman hidden by Belavierr’s magic. Califor nodded.

“One attempt. Let us attempt it—quickly. Mister Prost should continue preparing to evacuate the village. Witch Alevica, I have a job for you.”

“Who, me? I don’t have that much magic—”

“No. You are to take Nanette to Witch…Agratha would be the closest. Failing her, Oliyaya.”

The youngest [Witch], who had been listening to all this discussion, sat up, and Alevica blinked.

“What if that Drake tries to get me in the sky?”

“Outrun him. I will cover your escape with Mavika.”

The Crow Witch blinked and nodded, but Nanette protested.

“No, Miss Califor! I want to stay and help! You need me for the grand ritual! Eight is better than six! Six isn’t even a powerful number!”

On this, Califor was adamant.

“Fire moves fast, Nanette! It can outrun people on horseback if the wind is right. And this Drake has plotted his vengeance against this Emperor Godart and his people. If he is backed by a Walled City, it explains the magic that we were unable to move. With a ritual, we might defeat his control over the weather. But by that time, flight will be even more difficult. I will not risk your life or this coven’s should we fail to halt it. You are my apprentice—”

“No! I won’t go! This matters, and I won’t abandon Riverfarm!”

Nanette stubbornly dug her heels in, literally, when Califor tried to drag her towards the horses. Alevica hesitated. Califor’s voice was a snap.

“Nanette, do not argue with me when every second counts!”

“You told me a [Witch] has to be brave. And help people when it matters! I won’t let the villagers die, like Mister Prost’s family—or Durene or Ryoka—”

Nanette was begging to stay. She looked up tearfully at Miss Califor. The older [Witch] hesitated. Alevica made a clubbing gesture behind Nanette, and Califor’s glower made the Witch Runner back up.

For the first time, Nanette tore away from Califor’s grip. She held her hat tightly as she faced the other [Witches]. Belavierr’s stare might have been the first time she ever looked at Nanette, and the girl flinched. But she raised her chin and spoke, earnestly and nervously, vibrating with young courage. Even Wiskeria looked at her and remembered what it had been like to be…

Young. That was it. Pure earnesty shone from Nanette’s voice.

“I like it here. The people aren’t always good. But there are good people among them. They have been kind to us [Witches]. And—and if we could try, surely we should? I ask the coven to hear my request. To use everything to save Riverfarm! Please!”

“Nanette…”

Wiskeria breathed. But then she looked around. The other [Witches] exchanged glances. Belavierr paused and regarded her daughter. And Califor studied Nanette’s face and sighed. She stopped trying to pull Nanette away.

“I taught you too well.”

Nanette beamed at her and looked at the other [Witches]. One by one, they nodded. Mavika tipped her hat.

“By your request, Witch Nanette, and Witch Wiskeria’s, this coven will try. The fire builds with each passing second. So the ritual must be done within the hour.”

“If we must do it, we will need a place. A focus. And a purpose.”

Eloise spoke briskly. Califor was nodding impatiently. She sighed as Nanette beamed in relief.

“Hold on, what if we’re for leaving? I could, uh, get Agratha—”

Alevica’s protest was met by seven cold stares. The Witch Runner gazed around.

“Damn it. Fine. What about the river?”

“Sympathy. I agree. We have no place of power, so it will do. Even if we don’t wake the river, we’ll draw on its strength. The purpose should be to call rain, obviously. We don’t have the moons or anything else for a great working. And the focus? My staff may well do; it was made of a tree from one of the Great Forests.”

Califor looked around, hefting the staff. Hedag sighed and reached for her bag.

“I have something. I traded for this a time ago. It’s yet to be polished, but it might do if no one else has better to offer. ‘Tis no ordinary stone. A [Merchant] had it with thousands from Salazsar. This one alone had magic in it. The weight of time and power.”

She produced a small aquamarine, uncut and unpolished, but sparkling. A glow in the stone that drew Mavika’s eye greedily. Califor nodded. Belavierr peered at the stone, as if it were a curio, but produced something as well.

“In that case, I will add a binding of thread, a weather-pattern charm, to both. Flame Wyvern’s heartstring. Give me vessel and focus.”

Eloise produced a carved cup, large enough to be held in two hands.

“Sacrifice this. It was a gift from the Kingdom of Keys; a half-Giant’s cup. Weighty in value and age. Best used to save lives.”

Another piece of power. Mavika hesitated—then reluctantly produced something long and ragged, a piece of dirty orange-red. Yet when she said what it was, Nanette gasped.

“This is a Phoenix King’s feather. No more do they fly. For this, an appropriate sacrifice I give. For a [Witch]’s request, that the unworthy might live.”

She turned to Alevica, and the Witch Runner, red-faced, dug in her pouch.

“Argh! Fine! Here’s a stone filled with all my mana. It’s not that great.”

She slammed down a lesser piece of quartz, and Wiskeria produced all she had—

“A pristine piece of Ember Salamander skin. I have nothing else related to fire to use.”

Belavierr inspected each piece, before arranging them in the cup.

“It will do. Seven. Eight…”

She looked at Nanette, and the little [Witch] hesitated. She had no real possessions or old craft. So she produced a knife and sawed at one of her braids.

“If—if I can’t do anything else, will my hair do?”

“That or blood—”

Belavierr fell silent as her daughter glared, and Nanette’s hair went into the bowl. Hedag handed over the aquamarine. Belavierr produced a needle and, using Nanette’s hair as thread, wove a loop around the blue gemstone before beginning a complex pattern that tied it to the wooden vessel. To that, she added each gift until the brimming cup seemed to be one object, of mismatched parts, and kept sewing.

…Until it almost looked like the piece of quartz were part of the cup and the salamander skin was melding with the feather to create something brighter. The [Witches] watched for a second, then stood up.

“Thank you.”

Wiskeria said it to the others. Eloise smiled. Hedag laughed.

“I have given my word to protect the children here. And it is a Hedag’s word as well as a [Witch]’s. While Belavierr prepares the ritual, let us do what we can.”

Califor was urgent as she rose to her feet.

“I will prepare the site. It must be done quick; Witch Belavierr has our sacrifice. Nanette, pack your things. Then come and find me. Witch Mavika, if you would join me?”

“Yes.”

The two [Witches] headed out the door. Eloise, Nanette, and Wiskeria followed. Alevica hesitated until she realized Belavierr was staring at Alevica unblinkingly as she worked. She got up and hastily went after the two.

Panic in the streets greeted the [Witches]. Prost was shouting, trying to organize people to expand the firebreak while others tried to pack their things. But where would you go? Wiskeria saw smoke in every direction but the mountain and forest that bordered Riverfarm. And she had a feeling that fire was already building unseen there as well.

“Wiskeria!”

Ryoka and Rie found her. Califor and Mavika strode past them. Ryoka halted.

“Look—Laken’s asking your coven for a favor. Wiskeria, he knows it’s a lot to ask, but if you agree—”

“We’re performing a ritual. Don’t worry, Ryoka. We’ll fight the fire together. No one’s leaving.”

The City Runner sagged with relief. Eloise raised one finger, eying Lady Rie.

“Yet. However, I would not place all your hopes in this ritual, Miss Griffin, Lady Rie.”

“It could fail?”

Lady Rie looked sharply at Eloise. Wiskeria did too, heart pounding. She’d seen rituals go wrong. But they had so many powerful [Witches]. Her mother was on their side.

But it wasn’t the full moon, and they didn’t have a place of power…Eloise was clearly thinking the same things. The [Witch] shook her head.

“Wiskeria and Nanette have convinced some of the [Witches] to stay. And I have agreed to give the ritual an attempt. But should that fail, we must all flee or attempt to stand. And this fire would consume us all, I fear.”

“Laken’s told Prost to put everyone in the fields. He says that’s the safest space—cleared grounds.”

Eloise paused.

“Perhaps. Certainly, it has the river to its back. But the smoke the fires are giving off and the wind—I think many would die either way. In either case, if this ritual fails, the coven will leave. And we will only have the power to shield ourselves.”

The thought made Wiskeria cold inside. Lady Rie paused, licking her colored lips.

“Could you—take a group with you? If you left earlier?”

“If we had decided to leave now? Yes. But the fire is growing. And I cannot walk through flame unhindered. Belavierr might. Califor could ride through it, and Mavika fly. But Hedag and I will have to run or ride. We will try if it comes to that. But we must use every option. Have you any left? Hedag is going to clear more space at the firebreak.”

“She is? Durene’s there with some people. They’re trying to give us more space—”

Ryoka pointed towards the fields. She looked around. Then she slapped her forehead.

“Of course! Let’s call for help! What if we got a [Weather Mage] here?”

Wiskeria shook her head.

“They’d have to be present to call rains, Ryoka. And it’s not possible. Unless they could move like a Courier—”

“It’s possible! And there’s someone else who could extinguish the blaze!”

Ryoka suddenly seemed hopeful. She whirled to Lady Rie.

“Magnolia Reinhart.”

“Reinhart?”

Lady Rie recoiled, but Ryoka grabbed her shoulder.

“She can do it! She’s got a magical carriage! She could send it to Invrisil! Lady Rie, tell Nesor to send her a [Message]! Don’t argue—Nesor! Nesor!”

Wiskeria saw Ryoka race off, dragging Lady Rie with her. The [Witch] looked around. Nanette hesitated.

“I have to pack my things. And saddle the horses. I’ll—I’ll go help Miss Califor after that. We won’t need the horses, right?”

She glanced from [Witch] to [Witch]. Neither Eloise nor Wiskeria could find the words for reassurance. Nanette hurried off after a second. Eloise regarded Wiskeria. She seemed old. And worried. Wiskeria looked around. People were rushing down the streets, but some had stopped to stare desperately at them.

“What should we do, Eloise? Help Califor and Mavika? Or Hedag?”

Eloise pursed her lips. She shook her head after a moment.

“I’m not one for picking up sticks or digging, Wiskeria. And Califor and Mavika have the preparations well in hand. As does your mother. No, I think our purpose is to keep Riverfarm from falling apart. The people are split. Some would flee. They would die. The fire is too thick and moving too fast. We must keep them here. And calm. Draw on your craft.”

“I—I don’t know. I’ve never soothed a group, let alone so many people—and I don’t have magic to call on, Eloise.”

Wiskeria wavered. Eloise studied her.

“I cannot do it alone. And you have your craft. Or was earlier today a fluke?”

Wiskeria blinked. And then she remembered. Slowly, she looked around. The people were desperate. But the ones watching her—she spotted Jelov. And Chimmy.

“Miss Wiskeria? Miss Wiskeria, we ain’t going to have to flee, are we?”

Chimmy’s eyes were wide with fright. She looked up as Wiskeria strode over to her. The [Witch] hesitated. Then she knelt.

“We might, Chimmy. But my coven and I are doing our best to keep Riverfarm safe. Trust in that. And keep a calm head. Jelov, what are you doing?”

The [Carpenter] sucked at his teeth.

“Waiting, Miss Wiskeria. Not like I can pack up and move a second time. Emperor Laken made me his best [Carpenter], didn’t he? Reckon I’ll trust to him to get us out of this. Got all my stuff here, and it burns easy. Hey, what should we be doing?”

They looked at her. And Wiskeria felt something in them. Justice. Unity. She pulled on it, taking some of it. And she spun it, used it in her voice. In her craft.

“Help me keep people calm. Stop them from packing! We need people expanding the firebreak or gathering supplies under Prost’s direction! We don’t need valuables like clothes—we need barricades the fire can’t move past! Walls of dirt, even! You—Ram! Stop!”

She shouted, and Mister Ram stopped from trying to grab people and forcibly tow them towards the fields. And her voice was the voice of command. More people stopped, and Wiskeria shouted. Her pointed hat stood out. It marked her as [Witch]. And that wasn’t always a bad thing.

“People of Riverfarm! Stay calm! Don’t pack your belongings; there’s no time to waste! Help dig the firebreaks or follow Mister Prost and help evacuate what needs evacuating to the fields!”

“Stay calm. Follow us.”

Eloise’s voice was no less loud, but it had a confidence in it like steel. The [Witch] swept down the street, and people halted, their panic subsiding. It was a [Lady]’s presence and a [Lady]’s Skill mixed with a [Witch]’s craft. Wiskeria followed, shouting.

Some refused to go. People who were suspicious of [Witches] or too out of their minds with fear to listen. But more and more people stopped racing about, controlled by fear. Prost found Wiskeria and Eloise, and his expression was written with relief. He pointed as they came towards him.

“To the fields! Children, anyone who can’t grab something there first! The rest of you—we’re hauling barrels of water there! If you have a shovel, get to work on a wall or just clear away the brush over there!”

He pointed towards the hundreds of people feverishly trying to build a safe space around the fields. The watered and tilled grounds and crops were the safest place to be. Wiskeria saw the logic in that. And already, people were building a wall to keep the fire and smoke from hitting them. The firebreak, already wide, was spreading out.

In any regular fire, it would have worked. No—the firebreak around Riverfarm would have been enough with a vigilant firefighting team watching for embers. But the wind! Wiskeria felt it whipping hot air into her face. The ritual had to work. It had to.

An hour seemed to pass in minutes. Wiskeria was busy shouting at people, trying to use the emotions she was taking from them, suppressing fear. She only looked up when she saw her mother striding towards her.

Belavierr was holding the vessel of wood. The aquamarine hung in a web of threads, a magical design. Just in time; Wiskeria could see Califor striding towards them.

“I call upon this coven!”

And her voice summoned every [Witch]. From Alevica, surreptitiously holding her broom, to Nanette, leading two horses whose eyes were wide with the scent of fire. Mavika stood in front of the ritual place as Wiskeria walked with Eloise and Belavierr. And the people of Riverfarm watched, desperate. Wiskeria felt their hope.

She wished she shared it. None of the other [Witches] seemed as hopeful as the people watching them. Because—Wiskeria could see the others thinking it. [Witches] didn’t trust everything to magic. Against things like fire, they much preferred to trust to a bucket of water, a firebreak. Nature wasn’t something you could just order around.

But they had to try. Wiskeria stopped when she saw Ryoka standing close to the ritual spot. The City Runner’s face was pale.

“Ryoka. Is Magnolia Reinhart—”

The other [Witches] regarded the City Runner. Ryoka shook her head.

“She’s too far away by carriage. She says her [Weather Mages] will try to send rain. And the person I asked for—I think he’s asleep.”

“Then wake him up!”

Alevica snapped. But Ryoka’s expression was her only reply. The [Witches] paused. Califor glanced around, and her tone snapped.

“The ritual awaits. Take your positions.”

It was a simple working Wiskeria saw. Califor and Mavika had placed river stones in a diagram, laying out an eight-sided star on the ground with radial lines connecting to the center. In that center, Califor placed the vessel with the aquamarine and thread. She had filled it with river water. Then she planted her staff in the ground, like a lightning rod, and stepped back.

“That’s it?”

Wiskeria heard an uneasy voice behind her. It sounded like Charlay. The [Witch] bit her lip. She could feel the doubt. But this was all the coven could have prepared. And it was all they needed. She told herself that as the [Witches] took their spots around the octagram.

The ritual began as a hot wind whipped towards them. Smoke made some of the audience cough. But the [Witches] stood silent. Their pointed hats didn’t move in the wind. And their gazes were distant.

Their shadows deepened. They seemed to twist towards the circle if you stared at them long enough. And a silence fell. The coven breathed in. Breathed out.

Ryoka saw they were all breathing the same. Nanette to Belavierr. They blinked as one. Ryoka’s hair stood on end despite the desperation and fear of the moment. She felt a charge rising in the air, but not of static. Of intent.

Then a [Witch] spoke. Belavierr. Her ringed eyes were wide as she spoke, raising a cloth-bound hand.



“Someone tries to bring fire and flame to those without blame.

Whose malice brings death and grief without end.”



Two [Witches] spoke. Wiskeria and Nanette.



“Let crying earth mend

Let nature’s wrath end!”



The [Witches]’ gazes were fixed on the aquamarine stone. And it glowed. The water in the cup moved, restlessly, obeying neither the wind nor physics. Califor continued with Alevica.



“Magic bows before nature’s will

Let not it be used further ill.”



Hedag and Eloise chanted the next lines in tandem.



“And give us your blessing, by river’s flow

As from the sky we ask for the same, by a coven’s will, an [Emperor]’s name.”



Mavika raised her hands. Her voice hissed and called, like the birds flying overhead.



“So come water, come relief and rain!

Here to end Riverfarm’s pain!”



And all eight [Witches] drew a blade. Nanette, Califor, Hedag, Eloise, Alevica, Mavika, Wiskeria, and Belavierr. Ryoka knew what was coming.

All eight [Witches] cut themselves across the wrist. They sprinkled blood on the river stones. Belavierr continued.

“By blood we call water.”

“By river we summon rain.”

Who was speaking now? Ryoka couldn’t tell.

Now, the [Witches]’ lips moved as one.

“We call.”

“We implore.”

“We beg.”

Belavierr whispered with all their voices as a refrain.

“We demand.”

A second cut. So deep that Ryoka felt ill seeing the blood run down Wiskeria’s arm. Nanette stumbled. But she spoke with the rest.

“Rain.”

And the aquamarine shone. The water in the wooden vessel trembled. Ryoka looked up. She felt the winds pause. The hot, angry, controlled air shivered.

In the sky, the pyrocumulonimbus cloud formed by the smoke slowly changed. Ryoka saw the distant cloud begin to darken. And in the distance, moisture gathered. Days of unspent rain began to gather. The air grew thick with humidity.

It was so fast that it looked like an illusion. It didn’t seem real. The wind blew faintly, and Ryoka’s skin chilled as a vast cloud, dark but oh so merciful, filled the skies.

It was, she realized, coming from the cup. A near-invisible something—vapor—was billowing up, marshaled by the [Witches] into the air. Spreading out until it covered all of Riverfarm and was growing wider.

Miles wide. Filling the sky. Alevica’s eyes were wide, and even the older [Witches] seemed to be silent with the knowledge of what they were doing.

Changing the weather. Until their great working had the mountain in shadow. Ryoka looked at the people of Riverfarm, and many had their mouths open like her.

This was great witchcraft. Wild and wondrous. Then, Ryoka heard a rumble from the skies. A crackle of sound—something wet struck her on the shoulder, and she flinched.

A drop fell from that dark sky. One, then a dozen pelting down. The rumble came again, vast, as the cloud continued to expand.

It began to rain. Riverfarm’s people turned. In the distance, sprinkles of rain began to fall from the saturated sky. Ryoka heard a whoop of delight, then wild cheers. She turned, beaming. And saw the [Witches] had frozen. They were staring at the gemstone. The trembling water. And then Ryoka saw them each raise a hand as one and point.

“Rain.”

They spoke as one, continuing the chant. And the gemstone began to pulse. Ryoka turned. Something—



—–



The Oldblood Drake saw the rain begin to fall. He whirled, snarled with fury. He grabbed at a scroll from his belt, desperately unfurled it.

“Oh no you don’t. [Weatherchange]!”

The rain’s fall began to slacken. But the cloud formed by the smoke wanted to rain. And there were days of rain waiting to fall. But not now! Not now!

The [Infiltrator] dropped the scroll as the magic went out of it. Those damn [Witches] were casting a spell! But he had more scrolls. Manus had predicted interference with the weather. The Drake pulled them out, reading from the burning magical inscriptions, calling upon the magic contained within. [Witches] would not stop this fire! They couldn’t!

“[Weatherchange]! [Weatherchange]!”

The scrolls flashed and fell from his claws as they used up their magic. In Riverfarm, the [Witches] began to chant. And the rain stopped falling. Started.

“They can’t do this! They can’t!”

The Drake cursed as he battled the coven. With each scroll, the rain stopped, but the [Witches] were pushing. He could feel it, feel the cloud above him trying to disgorge its contents. But the scrolls were holding them off.

And yet—there was a limit to how many he had. The [Infiltrator] cursed as he reached for the last of his scrolls as the [Witches] silently battled him, pulling at the sky. He raised it desperately and pulled something out. A speaking stone reserved for emergencies.

“Requesting magical support. I need a dozen [Weatherchange] spells on my position—now! Hang the cost!”

He heard a terse affirmative. But even as he burned through his scrolls, a fortune from the City of War—the flickering air refused to change. The cursing Drake spat flames, howling as he saw the fires beginning to wane.

It couldn’t end, not after all this work! They almost had the damn [Emperor]’s lands and the Spider herself!



——



The first few spells they fought off, like someone shoving at them, hard and heavy—but unskilled. Eight [Witches] in unison could repel the magic of a scroll, even if it came again and again.

But then more spells began to activate, distant, yet fast, like a flurry of blows—and Wiskeria felt the strain. She tried to resist, fighting for minutes as the rain continued to intensify, but now every [Witch] was fighting.

So much magic! Far too much for any one individual to cast. Someone was unleashing spell after spell on them. If it weren’t for her mother, the coven would have failed then and there. Belavierr’s magic and craft was a deep web, even now, and she deflected spells trying to wrest control of the air from them.

This was not their land, but they had the river before them and drew on it, their will and unity. The river groaned and, Wiskeria thought, woke up a bit. The sky rained, and the [Witches] fought—straining—

“Hold fast and we will win! They cannot best us with mage’s magic alone.”

Eloise called out. Nanette was trembling with effort, her cut braids levitating with the force of the magic around her.

They could do this! The onslaught was slackening, but something was wrong. A whining sound filled the air, and at first, Wiskeria didn’t know why. Then, she looked up from her trance and gasped. The other [Witches] broke from their spell. Wiskeria pointed.

“No—”

Strain. The pressure of the conflicting magic, one to erase the rain, the other to bring it on, was pressing at each [Witch], but their will refused to break. However—the rest of their grand ritual was not as strong as they were. A weak point began to shiver in the cup in the middle of the octagram:

Hedag’s aquamarine gemstone. It hadn’t been cut. And perhaps it had a fault or it was simply that Hedag’s focus wasn’t strong enough to contain the magical battle. The aquamarine ensnared in the vessel of water cracked. The web of string binding it snapped apart. The [Witches] went flying as the magical backlash boomed and threw them from the circle into the river.

Wiskeria pulled herself out, screaming.

“No!”

She tried to get back, but it was too late. The octagram was shattered, and above—

The cloud began to fragment and dissolve away. The rain stopped falling.



——



In the sky, the Oldblood Drake went flying as well, the scroll bursting with the backlash. He was falling! He flapped desperately, righting himself before he crashed on the ground—and then gazed up and crowed triumphantly.

“Agent? Successful casting after 34 burnouts of scrolls. Confirm!”

“Confirmed! We did it! Going dark and—”

The gleeful Drake began to respond when he saw the fragmenting cloud above him. The raincloud had begun to dissolve in patches as fast as it had come. Literally breaking apart. His smile froze on his face.

“No. Wait—”

In horror, he saw a patch of cloud fading away stop—shiver—and halt. Then it joined the patch it had left as a strand of black laced through the sky. Almost like—

His eyes lowered to Riverfarm. And there she stood.

The Witch of Webs reached up—and began to stitch the cloud together.



——



They called her the Spider. Temptress. The Eater of Threads. The Witch of Calamity. Mistress of Strands.

She had many names, but she had never shown them any of it. Even when Ser Raim had come to kill her, the armies and monsters she had summoned had been defensive.

Not once had Belavierr worked her great magic a-purpose. So even the other [Witches] could be forgiven for forgetting her talent.

Only her daughter had seen Belavierr work. Now—the [Witch] stood on top of the river’s waters. She balanced on the surface, as if the roiling water were simply an uneven piece of ground. And her head was turned skywards.

Her eyes were aglow with wrath. Anger. The ritual was shattered, their raincloud dissolving. No one bested her.

So Belavierr reached up, and with a thread made of air and wind, something even Ryoka could barely comprehend, she began to reknit the sky, gathering the rain and clouds back together again.

Even the other [Witches] seemed unable to believe what they were seeing. Hedag, Eloise, Alevica…only Califor and Mavika traded significant glances.

“Rain. Come now, harder, to drown the land. Remember my name. I call you down. Pour harder, a storm for the ages. Harder, this witch calls! A maelstrom rages!”

Belavierr’s arms were thrown wide. She spun slowly, and the sky began to swirl like the beginnings of a hurricane.

Someone was laughing. Wiskeria realized—it was her. She looked up, and her mother was there, like the mother that Wiskeria had loved, who had called the moon and caught gigantic fish by the sea.

All for her. Belavierr’s eyes flicked sideways as Wiskeria stood there, laughing, hat raised. Then, for one good moment, the mother saw the daughter was proud of her, and the daughter could be so unabashedly.

The sky began to truly bring a torrent down, and smoke was rising in every direction as Riverfarm’s folk cheered wildly. The wildfires were going out! The dry land was begging for the rain, and Belavierr smiled at her daughter, beckoning.

“Come join me, Daughter, and I will show you how to command the sky.”

Wiskeria hesitated at the edge of the river and began to step onto it. Magic was flickering in the air; that damn Drake and his city were still trying to kill the rain, but they were up against Belavierr’s magic.

What could they do? Strike at her? Califor glanced up and seized her staff.

“Magic attacks.”

“Too far and too few. Guard me, coven. With me, Daughter.”

A bolt of lightning flashed down, and Califor tossed her staff like a spear; the bolt of lightning followed the staff as it landed a hundred paces away and struck it. Two more hit the staff like a lightning rod, and Belavierr smirked at the skies. Eloise lifted a hand.

“Valmira’s Comets, now. Oh my. I can do one…[Deft Hand].”

She was far less showy than Belavierr, but one of the two comets moved, and its trajectory carried it into the forest.

“Argh, a Hedag I am, not some [Battlemage]! Still—this one I can take.”

Hedag was more direct—she just picked up a crate filled with someone’s possessions, dumped the clothing and goods to the ground, then hurled the crate skywards. It hit the falling comet, detonated—

Belavierr, laughing, saw the last feeble attack coming her way. Mavika called upwards.

“[Flamestrike]. Guard her, flock.”

It seemed as though a cloak of feathers whirled across the air; birds by the hundred. They blocked a glowing jet of flames coming down and dissipated it high above. The birds circled, cawing victory, and Wiskeria began to cackle now, joining her mother’s voice.

All of this, and they couldn’t match a [Witch]’s might! The air was filled with rain and flame—she felt the unnatural fires in the distance, struggling, as Belavierr forced them to die. Water in the sky—triumph in her mother’s eyes.

Dying fire in the skies. The [Flamestrike]’s magic was just mage-magic; once defeated by Mavika’s magic, it became aimless fire magic, rapidly vanishing. Whorls of random fire drifting down amidst the rain.

A single spark drifted down as Wiskeria raised her eyes. A fading, dying ember. Just like Ser Raim’s eyes.

Wiskeria’s triumphant laughter halted. Why had she remembered that man’s face? Wiskeria looked up and then at her mother, and suddenly, her joy in her mother’s craft was bittersweet.

The spark fell down, then another, seeming to condense out of the air. Nothing like the spell itself…a tiny bit of light smothered by the rain.

But not going out. Belavierr was too busy luxuriating in her triumph, the power of the storm above, and her daughter’s delight. Yet Wiskeria’s eyes tracked a third falling spark, and her time as an adventurer told her something.

Strange. That magic shouldn’t do this. The sparks showered down—more, now—and Califor, watching for another attack, noticed.

“That’s not a spell. Witch Belavierr—”

She called out, but Belavierr didn’t hear. Wiskeria stumbled on the moving river; she couldn’t walk it like her mother so easily.

“Mother—”

Belavierr heard that, as ever, and saw Wiskeria point up. At a falling spark. She looked annoyed, at first, by the tiny thing and flicked her hand. The dying ember fizzed as rain struck it…spiraling downwards.

Straight at the Witch of Webs. Then Belavierr’s face grew puzzled. Her ringed gaze focused on the tiny fragment, and she stared at the burning spark for a second. Then her expression changed to one Ryoka had seen only once before.

Fear.

Horror.

Wiskeria remembered Ser Raim driving his sword into the Spider’s heart. A purifying flame. A burning torch, an inferno of her magic and tapestry of power, turning it all to ash.

Two deaths, Belavierr had said. The [Witch] tried to take a step back. She flung out an arm, and the needles shot forwards, trying to stab the tiny fragment out of the air. But the burning spark landed on her dress like a fragment of Ser Raim’s flame.

Like a match—

Belavierr burst into flames. It was as if she were made of oil; one second, she was recoiling, eyes wide, mouth open—the next?

Burning, like the moments before Ser Raim had died. Engulfed in horrific flames.

She stumbled and suddenly lost her footing. Belavierr splashed into the river, and Wiskeria, losing her mother’s aid, landed in the water.

“Mother!”

Above her, the clouds suddenly unknitted, and Califor shouted.

“No!”

She reached up, straining, trying to keep the rainclouds together, but they broke apart. And below? Wiskeria, treading water, thought her mother would rise, the flames gone out. Then she looked into the turgid waters and saw—

A burning woman flailing in the water itself. The river heaved—Belavierr stumbled out of it, pouring water and steam.

The flames refused to die. Then she was writhing on the ground, shrieking.

“She’s on fire! Help, put it out!”

Wiskeria was swimming for shore as Ryoka said the unnecessary, but the Wind Runner tried to help smother the flames—and recoiled from an insane heat. She looked around, grabbed a blanket someone had been meaning to use to carry their possessions, and tossed it, wet, onto Belavierr.

The blanket caught flame. And Belavierr’s scream was growing higher and higher pitched now.

“W-water! Get—”

The river water was useless and burnt into steam the moment it touched Belavierr. Wiskeria was trying to pull the flame off her mother with magic, but it was the same. The exact same.

An echo of Ser Raim’s flame. Her mother was still—

She was still burnt. And a single spark had the same effect as an ember to a vat of oil. Wiskeria was about to leap forwards and use her very body to try and smother the fire when someone shoved her aside.

“Move!”

Eloise tossed what turned out to be a full pot of tea over Belavierr. It was a good toss; the tea extinguished much of the flames, and Belavierr ripped at her dress, tossing the fragments away. She was burnt; not badly, but burnt, and she leapt away, unnaturally quick.

“His flame—”

Califor strode forwards to grind her boots over the burning dress. She snapped at Belavierr.

“Get back!”

The Witch of Webs did just that. She backed away—and Ryoka saw the same thing happen again. A spark, multiple sparks, burning from the dress flickered into the air. And instead of going out—

They homed in on Belavierr. Hedag grabbed one with her bare hand, grimacing, and Eloise trapped another in her pot—

The rest of them set Belavierr aflame. Once more, the [Witch] was screaming. And now—she was running.

Not back towards the river. Towards Riverfarm, through the village. Wiskeria ran after her, calling for Belavierr to come back, but her mother was fleeing. As if trying to outrun the fire itself clinging to her.

Running through the village, and as she passed by abandoned houses, Wiskeria saw a lantern in a window flicker as she passed. A fire from one of the kitchens blazed—

Anything, a candle, an oven’s fire—jumped to her and added to the [Witch]’s agony. Belavierr left the village, fell to the ground, and began to roll—then stopped.

Burning as the rain stopped, the skies cleared, and a Drake shrieked triumph—

Her daughter halted in horror as Belavierr lay there, burning, burning, eyes wide, mouth open in incredible agony until slowly, slowly, the fire died. She lay, smoking, skin charred black, eyes too-white in a body filled with ash. No magic to cloak her injuries this time. Belavierr lay there, then flinched as she stared at the sky.

Smoke was rising again, and now? She reached for the sky, and her arm fell back, limp. She lay there, and Wiskeria spoke.

“Mother?”

“Ah. I see my death remains. So that was how it came.”

That was all Belavierr said. So this was her second death. She looked up towards the skies and waited. The fires resumed burning. Her eyes stole to her daughter, and she lay there, now, seeing it.

Fire. Flames she would have laughed at a week ago—now, each spark a mortal conflagration. Death for the Witch of Webs. Death for Riverfarm.

Here it came.



——



The disappearance of the stormcloud seemed like a trick, at first. However, as the minutes grew, the flames that had almost been smothered regrew. Some had gone out entirely, but the embers had lingered under peat or other burnable fuels.

It would have taken more than a brief shower to end this. Yet it almost had ended—the Drake didn’t understand what had happened. He put it down to providence as he relit flames and watched them grow. If this was some trick of the [Witches]—no, he doubted they were willing to let the fires rage. Something had taken out the Witch of Webs.

The sky was dark with smoke, but no rain fell. The Drake breathed out, and he unsteadily glared at Riverfarm. Then he unfurled the last two scrolls and nodded. His expression was dark as he watched Riverfarm, no longer confident. Wary.

He bared his teeth as he flew, searching for the final spot to finish his mission. Almost…then it would be over. Ancestors, he was weary, but he murmured a promise.

“Time to end this.”



—–



“She has been marked for death by flame. It has burnt away every protection Belavierr had, made her weaker to it. A single spark carries a dead man’s vengeance. Should the fires reach her, even she would not remain.”

It was Mavika who diagnosed what had happened hours later. Belavierr, the Witch of Webs, sat in the house allotted to her.

In a bed.

Ryoka had never actually seen Belavierr lying down. It had felt like she didn’t need to sleep, and in truth, she was not really sleeping. She was staring blankly ahead, fingers twitching, so badly burnt that they hadn’t even been able to undress her; her clothing had fused with her skin.

She looked…horrible. Like she had after fighting Ser Raim, but the difference was that this time, she didn’t disguise her ruined flesh. The fires had burnt Belavierr badly. Worse, in a way, than Ser Raim.

No, this was all his doing. It was clear Belavierr was now weak to flame in an extraordinary way; a single spark would actually follow after her and try to set her on fire.

If that wasn’t vengeance, Ryoka didn’t know what was. It was odd to think the [Knight] had cursed Belavierr in a way that even Mavika found impressive. As it was, the Crow Witch’s voice was flat.

Grim.

“Each flame saps her power; if it were mere flesh, she would endure.”

“Is this—is this permanent?”

Poor Wiskeria. Ryoka was here to observe and report back to Riverfarm. All the hope and jubilation of the ritual succeeding had turned back to fear. The [Witches] had called the rain; the Drake had broken their magic. They might have bought time with the brief rainfall, but not much.

And now Belavierr, their trump card, if a deadly one, was almost comatose. Mavika hissed a reply.

“I doubt it is. Your mother can remake any ward, repair any damage, from flame to sword. But that takes time she does not have.”

Time none of them had. Wiskeria took a breath and nodded.

“You’re—you’re right, Mavika. She’s mentioned being cursed like this before. Of all the times—!”

The irony was that Raim’s vengeance had come at the one moment when Belavierr was doing something good. And now—Ryoka got it.

Belavierr’s second death was more dangerous than the first. She would have laughed at the wildfire before this. Now? It was the most deadly thing imaginable.

We’re screwed. No—Ryoka was determined to do something. She cleared her throat, looking around.

Almost all the [Witches] were here. However, Hedag and Califor weren’t present. Hedag had gone to help with Riverfarm’s folk, now digging desperately along the riverbank, and Califor was outside, though for what, Ryoka didn’t know.

Perhaps they had seen Belavierr’s injuries and just didn’t…care. Wiskeria did, and she bent over the bed.

“Mother? Can you hear me? How dangerous is the fire to you? Mother?”

Belavierr didn’t answer. She might not have been able to; her face was barely a face, save for the eyes staring out of burnt-off eyelids. Her fingers, though, were moving despite the trail of ash and blood they left.

She was still moving, though this time, she was…stitching? Sewing something together. A bunch of failed tries lay around her, and as Ryoka watched, a promising bundle of thread that moved like an odd, twisting symbol of magic—fell apart.

“Her flame wards are failing. I doubt she can mend her weakness easily. It will take weeks, perhaps months.”

Eloise observed, not without a bit of satisfaction. Wiskeria’s head rose, and she snapped.

“Well, now she’s unable to give us aid when it matters most! Mother! The wildfires are coming. Can you help stop them? Califor’s trying, I think.”

Belavierr’s vague gaze turned Wiskeria’s way, but for once, she was silent. The burnt witch simply stared at her daughter, and Wiskeria’s hand hesitated. She was holding onto Belavierr’s shoulder, burnt cloth and skin, and the woman flinched.

“Mother, you have to have some artifact or relic in—”

“Wiskeria. You’re hurting her.”

“Hurting?”

Wiskeria saw her mother’s flinching and suddenly let go. She stared at her hand, her mother, and backed up a step.

“Witch Wiskeria, you will do no good here. Leave her.”

Mavika advised Wiskeria. Alevica was just shaking her head as Belavierr tried another ward, a knot, and it just…fell apart. The charred Witch of Webs stared at the mess on her lap.

Fear, defeat, mortality. All things not usual to Belavierr clung to her. Ryoka gave her this: no normal woman could be that badly burned and, without painkillers, just sit there and look a bit upset.

But Wiskeria looked completely torn apart, and only the reminder of Riverfarm’s danger—and now the threat to her mother—got her out of the house.

“This isn’t going to end well. It’s all gone bad. We should get out of here…”

Alevica muttered. She cast around the dark house—all flames had obviously been banned—then hurried out, hunching her shoulders.

Ryoka was tempted to say something to Belavierr in this moment. Perhaps something unneeded, but maybe something about mothers and daughters. One look at Belavierr’s features, which became a grimace of agony, and she decided to leave.

The Witch of Webs actually glanced at Ryoka as the Wind Runner backed up. And her gaze seemed to invite…what? Pity? Ryoka wasn’t sure she could manage pity. Even now, she remembered how Raim and Tagil had died.

If only you had been able to do a good thing. Now you’re in it, with it. That was the kind of—of feeling some of the [Witches] and even Ryoka had. Only one person actually seemed to have pity for Belavierr. Even Wiskeria had only shock.

“U-um, Miss Belavierr? I’m awfully sorry about how hurt you were. You tried to make it rain. T-thank you.”

Nanette approached the bed cautiously, and Ryoka hesitated. Belavierr’s gaze swung to Nanette; she was stitching again, painfully trying to make something, anything. The smallest [Witch] tipped her hat, eyes wide.

Nanette was tough too—she didn’t flee shrieking at the sight of Belavierr. But her eyes had tears in them.

“You got hurt trying to save Riverfarm. I—I tip my hat to you. And this is from me. It’s not much, but Miss Califor made it for me. A cream for burns.”

She offered a tiny, half-empty jar of something herbal to Belavierr. It was probably like putting a bandaid on a cut artery…but it seemed to move Belavierr. At the very least, her fingers stopped desperately dancing, and she stared at Nanette, looking her over.

Slowly, very slowly, Belavierr accepted the jar. Then she patted Nanette on the head. The girl flinched, but Ryoka saw Belavierr hesitate…then produce something and twist it together. She beckoned and offered Nanette something.

It was…a ribbon. Brown, the same color as Nanette’s hair; the Witch of Webs had seen Nanette’s hair, lopsided from Nanette’s sacrifice, and motioned.

“Oh. For me? I, um—”

Nanette hesitated, but then she turned, and Belavierr gingerly, but with some expertise, wove the ribbon into Nanette’s braids. She did it fast, undoing and redoing Nanette’s hair like, well, another type of thread.

When she was done, it was almost invisible, but it had restored Nanette’s braids, so her hair looked as if it hadn’t even been shorn. It was so well done that only if you stared really closely would you see the braid.

“My hair! Thank you, Miss Belavierr!”

Nanette seemed touched by the gesture. She curtsied, remembered to raise her hat, and Belavierr sat back. She held the jar of ointment in her hand and stared out the window, no longer trying to sew wards.

Somehow…that made Ryoka realize how desperate things were. The Wind Runner beckoned, and she and Nanette left the house silently. Belavierr sat there as her death came for them all.

Fire and flame.

Was she afraid? Ryoka glanced back once, and the witch was staring at her and Nanette. Even now…she was a bit terrifying. But Ryoka thought—yes.

She was afraid. But one thing occurred to Ryoka.

Belavierr hadn’t left.

She was still facing this for her daughter.



——



The fires were spreading across the land. Merging. Becoming a single blaze surrounding Riverfarm. Oh, they spread in every other direction too, but the wind was being used to send the fire one way.

It might have hit Riverfarm that very night, but the rainstorm and one other factor kept the wildfires back. The flames slowed in gathering ground over the briefly-wet terrain, and so Riverfarm dug like mad.

No magic, but just what the [Witches], villagers, and Ryoka knew. Fire breaks. Cleared terrain that would hopefully keep a fire back.

…Unless the heat and wind just murdered everyone standing downwind of the fire, even if they were thousands of feet or a mile away. The smoke might kill them, but the hour had passed for anyone to run.

Groups had gone out, desperate, and many had come back, including Councilwoman Beatica, finding fires in the ways they had hoped to flee. As if someone—that bastard in the skies—was igniting any escape route.

Three times now, the orange glow of one of the wildfires itself had been spotted. Twice in the forest, once rolling down from the northern road. Riverfarm had been given time to lug their possessions away to continue clearing land by the other factor holding the fire back.

Witch Califor. She had taken a position in an ironic or perhaps fitting place.

The hill where Ser Raim had died. It gave her a larger view of the area, and the [Witch] stood there, staff in hand. When the third blaze appeared, she thrust the staff down into the ground.

“You, who knew the great forests. You, the last fragment who remains. This is not your land. These are not your people. But I ask you in mercy’s name—burn. And spare them all this flame.”

She lifted her quarterstaff up. When Califor drove it down, for a second, you could see the forest it had once been part of. A vast land untouched by any buildings of wood or metal. The power of that ancient earth coursed through the wood of the staff, and it flexed and burnt as flames scorched the ancient wood.

A relic of old. A memory—the ash had consumed two-thirds of its length. The third time Califor performed this spell, the fires engulfed the quarterstaff entirely. She held it as it crumbled to ash and looked up.

Sweat was pouring down her face, matting her grey hair. Her hat was lopsided, but Califor’s gaze was triumphant—and regretful. And despairing.

The fire had gone out. In the distance, the patch of burnt land smoldered, but Riverfarm was spared. A third time.

—There were too many blazes. Califor could sense them coming. Her staff had eaten three great fires away. Now, she bent, picking up some of the ash and scattering a handful in the air. The rest she put in a pouch of her belt.

“I am sorry. I should have carried you a hundred more years, found a way to regrow you. Forgive me.”

She said that, then looked around.

“Forgive me.”

The second time, she said it to the land, to Riverfarm. And perhaps…to the young woman who halted there.

Ryoka Griffin had wanted to speak to Witch Califor for a while. When she stopped, wide-eyed, Califor sat down.

“That was all I had left. My staff is gone. My cloak frayed. Too many fires remain.”

“You—you just erased the fire?”

Califor didn’t respond. Ryoka had seen the flames, thousands of feet wide—just disappear. She stood there looking at Witch Califor. The Witch Califor, Alevica had said.

“We have failed Riverfarm. At least, I have. I do not see a solution, Ryoka Griffin. Without Belavierr—we have been bested. Bested by the Drakes, the Walled Cities. Unless the Wind Runner of Reizmelt has an idea. Great magic cannot solve every issue.”

Califor sat with her back to the burnt tree as Ryoka opened and closed her mouth. Then squeaked.

“Me?”

Witch Califor was rubbing at her face, leaving trails of soot on her skin. She was distracted, clearly, exhausted.

“Where’s Nanette? I…I should return.”

She tried to get up, and Ryoka bent to offer her a hand. Califor was lighter than she looked, and Ryoka stuttered.

“I—I was checking on Belavierr. Nanette’s fine. She’s helping dig. I wanted to find you to ask…isn’t there something else?”

“She does what she can. No, Ryoka Griffin. I am out of magic. All I have left is…me. Tricks. Enough to kill that Drake, perhaps. Not halt nature itself. That is the hardest thing for [Witches]: to halt what should happen.”

“But that bastard started the fires! This isn’t nature!”

“Fire is nature. The hand that started it might well have done so for selfish, cruel reasons. Fire does not care. The dry wood that yearns to burn will do so for whatever task it is about. Be it to burn an innocent woman or boil water. It is hard to oppose fire. True, the storm that we conjured was sent away. It might be back with a vengeance. But not today.”

Califor was so tired she was rhyming a bit, like Mavika. She looked at Ryoka.

“Belavierr is wounded; the flames shall be her end. Mavika is the least-suited of all of us to oppose a natural disaster with her flocks. Eloise and Hedag are powerful [Witches], but not in grand scales. That role falls to me. And I have failed.”

She sounded so bitter about it Ryoka hesitated.

“M-maybe I could help? I’m—you know my name?”

“Wind Runner of Reizmelt. Yes, you’re the wind’s friend. Perhaps…though a wind will stoke most flames. And that Drake has control of it with spells. Can you best him?”

“I can’t. I’m sorry.”

Ryoka had tried to free the angry wind under his command. Califor’s voice rasped.

“Not your fault. Though I would have asked where the power came from. It’s not witchcraft nor the magic of druids nor a Skill nor regular spell. You’re an odd woman, Ryoka Griffin. I meant to ask where you came from. But it was never the right time. Now?”

“I…could tell you. We have time, a bit.”

As if to defy Ryoka’s words, the dark sky grew with another glow. Califor’s head rose, and Ryoka saw another fire, smaller but no less deadly, creeping through the forest.

“Fuck.”

“I am curious. But no…I think it has to wait. I do not know you, and you do not know me, Ryoka. If I could—ah, well. What about this?”

Califor suddenly seemed to have a thought. She produced something and handed it to Ryoka. It was a tiny finger…saucer? Yes, just a dimple of beautiful porcelain.

“What’s this?”

It looked vaguely familiar to Ryoka. Without a word, Califor produced something and poured it into a copy she held balanced on two fingers. Then into Ryoka’s.

“A thought. You don’t recognize it?”

Her glance at Ryoka was quick, and Ryoka stared, and the almost odorless smell…her tongue tasted the liquid in the tiny bowl on her fingertips.

“Wait, is this…sake?”

Califor looked amused.

“Ah, I don’t know that word in Drathian, but you recognize the custom.”

Ryoka did a double-take. She stared at the way Califor held the saucer towards her—then took a sip.

“I’m not from Drath. Not exactly—”

“No. You don’t have the accent. But you recognize this. You’re a strange woman. If I had time, I would ask you all of it. Right now? You’re clumsy, like Nanette. But you’re good-hearted and brave. The wind sings your name. You would have made a good [Witch], Ryoka. Though I say that of most women I’ve ever met.”

Witch Califor sipped, and Ryoka took a gulp of the liquid, which was actually fairly mellow. It warmed her up, and she glanced at Califor.

The moment of weakness was gone. Califor stood there, merely regretful as she studied the blaze.

“They turned to me, you know. Prost, those who heard my story. Hoped that Califor could save them. As if I were the better [Witch]. Belavierr has a thousand stories for every tall tale about me. I never relied on my reputation because I couldn’t answer it.”

Califor glanced at the trees near them for some reason, and Ryoka glanced at the shadows, but sensed no lurking Drake. She took another sip as Califor refilled their tiny cups.

“I’m—but you have done great things?”

She was hopeful, and Califor looked at Ryoka.

“Say, rather, I am capable of it. As are you.”

The Wind Runner flushed, both in embarrassment and gratification, and scuffed her foot on the ground.

“I haven’t done much great with the wind. I—I was trying to think of something I could do.”

Her eyes rose towards the flames now consuming the forest in the distance. Wind. Fire. Usually complementary forces, unfortunately. She couldn’t create a void, and failing that, wind only turned regular fires into hellstorms. Like fire tornados. She’d seen one of those on the news once…

Her mind was racing with ideas, a helpless desire to answer all the witchcraft and effort she’d seen.

Califor looked at Ryoka, and her eyes softened.

“You are a brave girl. I wish I had the time to have actually taught you anything. If you have an idea—do it.”

Ryoka hung her head, embarrassed at even suggesting it.

“I can’t. I don’t know how. It’s not like something I can just…push and achieve. And even if I could, I’m not strong enough.”

The [Witch] exhaled.

“I know the feeling. Witchcraft is not strong, Ryoka.”

At the Wind Runner’s incredulous look, Califor clarified.

“Not strong like [Mages]. Compared to an Archmage? One of them could snap their fingers, produce rain, and all of this would be over. A lot of my magic revolves around sympathy. One thing affects another. Like my staff. I made it burn in the place of the forest. Sacrifice is part of witchcraft. Emotion, too; ritual.”

“You do a lot with that, though. Heck, you hid all of Riverfarm! Isn’t that powerful sympathy?”

Ryoka protested, and Califor smiled.

“I have Skills. And experience. But yes…where I come in is providing the answer to that gap between a single staff and a wildfire. It is not enough. Yet if I may—”

Her head turned, and she lifted the cup to her lips, sipping. Looked Ryoka in the eyes.

“—The secret to success in my magic, and perhaps yours, is to take the tiniest of things. A bit of leeway. A chance in a million. Then you grab it and twist until you do what you must. However hard it must be.”

The Wind Runner stared at Califor, and her eyes flickered.

“…I—I can try. If it comes to it.”

“That’s all a woman can do.”

Again, Califor glanced sideways, then at the flames, and Ryoka knew she should go. To practice or…Califor exhaled, dropped the little saucer, stumbled, and Ryoka reached for her. But the [Witch] just caught herself, held up a hand, and Ryoka stopped.

“I truly have let Alevica down. She knew stories of me. In my experience, Miss Ryoka, it isn’t wise to walk about claiming you’re a woman who does great things. Or else everyone expects it of you.”

“Right. I get that.”

Ryoka thought about reputations. And it made sense. Califor was murmuring, hand on the tree for support. She had the little bottle of alcohol in her hand, and she stared down at the delicate piece of porcelain from the Empire of Drath.

“…I also don’t want to give Nanette the wrong idea. I am not that strong or wise or good. The secret, though?”

She pushed herself upright and exhaled. Her chin rose, and she touched the brim of her hat. Her eyes, like a grey storm, glittered in the darkness. Califor Weishart lifted her hat, and her voice sounded resonant.

“The secret is being able to do great things. Then you seldom have to.”

The Wind Runner looked her in the eyes, and the [Witch] smiled. Then she raised her foot—and shattered the beautiful bowl into pieces on the grass. It made a soft cracking sound, and Ryoka stared.

Califor tilted her hand—and the bottle of spirits from another land poured onto the pieces on the grass—and behind her, the sky bloomed.

Ryoka whirled. The fourth fire coming her way suddenly roared into the air. Terrifying Riverfarm. A blast, a pillar of heat and sound—burning high, high—

As if someone had just poured something flammable on it. Califor lifted her hands, as if compressing something, and Ryoka saw the fire burning a hundred times stronger halt—

Raging fire. Incinerating wood, turning it to charcoal—burning out even the embers. Until Califor released her grip, and the wood was smoking—burnt black—

The fire extinguished by its own volatility. Witch Califor leaned back against the tree. In the silence, the Wind Runner offered her the remainder of her drink, and Califor took a sip from the saucer.

“The fires will reach Riverfarm soon. What time, I cannot say. I will find Nanette in a moment. Will you have her meet me at our cottage?”

“O-of course. Thank you, Witch Califor. For the advice and—”

Ryoka stared wordlessly at the woman. Califor simply tipped her hat to her.

“Don’t thank me, Miss Griffin. All I bought was time. Tomorrow—”

Her eyes were faraway.

“—I will let you down.”



——



The Wind Runner had nothing to say to that. So Witch Califor leaned against the tree until Ryoka had gone, a breeze flowing with her. Then, Califor slowly slid down the trunk and onto the burnt soil.

Showing off to younger women. She would have chuckled if it were not so dire nor things so weary. Califor waited as the second person trudged up the hill to find her.

“Witch Califor. I didn’t want to interrupt. That was splendid magic.”

“Your mother could do better.”

Wiskeria bowed her head, not denying that, as she sat down. Califor wearily opened her eyes. At this moment, the wariness between the two was gone, any gap closed.

“I neither helped nor hindered her greatly when the Order of Seasons sought to end her. Had I done either, we might not have come to this.”

Wiskeria shook her head, shamefaced.

“I should have been more honest with you. I should have—done more with my mother when Ser Raim appeared. I just didn’t believe she could ever lose. Witch Califor, I’m sorry. I know you must disapprove of me, being such a poor [Witch] despite my mother being—and not stopping her.”

Califor’s head rose slightly, and she gave Wiskeria a startled look.

“I don’t disapprove of you, Witch Wiskeria.”

“Really? But I thought…”

Wiskeria trailed off. Califor shook her head, sitting more upright.

“You did what you felt was right. Few children could find it in their hearts to oppose Witch Belavierr, and she was your mother. You saw her; you regretted what had been done. Could you have done something later or as she came here? Perhaps. But no one in the coven, be it Mavika or Eloise, will judge you. Least of all me. I am a selfish witch, as we all are.”

Wiskeria protested.

“You? You’re the least selfish. You’ve been doing nothing but helping Riverfarm! That’s why I came to—to—ask if you’d teach me magic. My craft. Make me your apprentice.”

Witch Califor blinked. She turned to Wiskeria, actually surprised, and Wiskeria blushed.

“I know this isn’t the right moment, but I—you’re the only [Witch] I’d want to teach me a craft.”

“I am honored. But Witch Wiskeria—”

The rejection in Califor’s gaze was faster than Wiskeria had anticipated, but they were [Witches]. They didn’t like prevaricating, and Wiskeria hung her head.

“It is nothing to do with your mother. Or even you.”

Califor clarified, and Wiskeria glanced up.

“Then it’s because Nanette’s better?”

Her look was annoyed, competitive, and Califor clarified with a smile.

“Nanette is my greatest and only apprentice. If you and I had met before her, for you, I might have reconsidered my policy on apprentices. But as I said: I am a selfish witch. Tomorrow, you shall see that, Wiskeria.”

The younger [Witch] tilted her head, but she didn’t try to gainsay Califor like Ryoka. At last, she looked at Califor. Staff gone. Cloak gone. These were just things, but Wiskeria knew she was greatly spent.

…She had not bled for Riverfarm, though. Merely wearied herself in its defense. That was selfishness. For Mavika, or even Eloise, it was understandable, but the Califor of stories should have done more.

“Ask.”

Califor whispered, and because Wiskeria was a good [Witch], however young, she asked the right question.

“Is—is it talent, Witch Califor? The reason Nanette’s your only apprentice?”

At this, Califor laughed. She laughed so ruefully, with such amusement, that Wiskeria stared, then began to bristle in Nanette’s defense. But there was nothing unkind about it. Califor shook her head, chuckling.

“No. It is the most obvious accident and reason in itself, Wiskeria. Your mother might understand. Nanette is my apprentice…and you will be a great [Witch]. I am sorry you did not meet the Witch Califor. I am indeed a coward.”

With that, she rose and bowed to Wiskeria. The younger [Witch] looked up, eyes flickering, and Califor wondered if Wiskeria understood. When she rose, she tipped her hat to Califor.

“I’m grateful. I have admired [Witches] since meeting you all.”

That hurt most of all, but Califor embraced the pain and bowed.

“May it continue.”

Then the night fell, and she turned her head towards the smoky landscape. By the time dawn rose the next day, the pale summer’s light caught on vibrant orange and flaring red, on murky ash and carmine and crimson oblivion.

Then the landscape caught flame.





Day 70



When dawn came and they saw the fires that Califor had delayed on the horizon, the people of Riverfarm digging along the riverbank put down their shovels. They gathered in the village with their belongings taken from the houses.

Some people had found horses and were prepared to ride again rather than stay. Mister Prost did not gainsay anyone, save for people trying to loot what didn’t belong to them.

Yet his eyes were on the [Witches]. So were many of the villagers’.

It was so close, hope and hatred. Distrust became desperation—and they had seen Belavierr almost stop the fires. But while Belavierr had regained her feet—

She was hunched, hat hiding half-fixed features. Good skin seemed to sag and reveal the burnt flesh beneath, and she was hiding, huddling away from the oncoming flames.

At least she had solved her immediate burning issue: the few sparks did not ignite her. They swerved towards her, then extinguished themselves on her clothing. But it was clear she was still a match ready to go up.

—Besides, it was not her that Prost and others looked at, but Witch Califor. She stood there as morning dawned, reading each and every fire from the smoke they sent up, vast trails through the sky. Nanette was coughing as a wet handkerchief covered her face; Ryoka herself had woken up choking on the smog.

Califor looked around, meeting Prost’s eyes, the gazes of children, folk of Riverfarm, the rest of the coven, who watched her curiously, or in Eloise’s case—a kind of calm, smiling resignation.

Last of all, Wiskeria’s and Ryoka’s gazes. Then Califor’s gaze travelled lower. Her apprentice looked up with wide, worried, trusting eyes. Califor gently bent over, and her grip tightened on Nanette’s shoulder.

When her eyes rose, they were filled with grim resolve.

“I am leaving, Steward Prost. I regret that I could not do anything more. Nanette, mount up.”

Her apprentice’s mouth fell open in horror, Califor glanced at her hair with a frown. But the little girl’s eyes were wide with shock—then she saw the pony and horse trotting towards them, saddlebags made up. Ryoka couldn’t believe it. Neither could Nanette.

“What? Miss Califor! But the flames—”

“Nanette. We are going. We can do nothing more here.”

Prost lowered his head. He looked at Califor, and the woman’s face was impassive. Nanette tore away from Califor.

“You can! We might not be able to do another ritual! But we can use smaller spells! Hold the fire back! If we raise the wall higher, we could hold the flames away, conjure enough cool air to outlast the fire—Miss Califor, please!”

Wiskeria pleaded with the older [Witch]. Califor hesitated again. Wiskeria held her breath. So that was what she’d meant last night.

Was she just leaving? Alevica was incredulous. Even Mavika looked shocked. This was Califor. Hadn’t she heard stories of the [Witch] pulling off feats just as grand? Surely—

But then Califor shook her head. It was at Nanette she gazed. And she shook her head as she addressed Wiskeria.

“I am sorry. But Nanette comes first. In that, I understand your mother. You should go with her.”

She pointed. Belavierr was walking towards Wiskeria. And her face wasn’t expressionless. It was intent. Wiskeria gazed at her.

“Mother.”

“Wiskeria. It is time for me to leave. I cannot halt the fire any more than my death. Come. I will bear you out of this place. I have the strength for that.”

Califor’s decision had, it seemed, helped Belavierr come to a decision. A low moan rose from the people of Riverfarm. They had no horses or magic. Belavierr ignored them. she reached for Wiskeria. The [Witch] drew back, horrified.

“We can’t just go!”

“You must. Or you will die. The chance of surviving this is slim to none. Wiskeria, listen to Witch Belavierr. She speaks with your interests at heart.”

Califor snapped as she crooked a finger.

“No arguments, Nanette. I will not risk your life.”

“But I want to stay! They’ll die! Miss Califor, please!”

“No.”

Nanette sobbed, then began to kick and struggle, but Califor picked her up and put her on the horse. The other [Witch] mounted and glanced down. Wiskeria looked up helplessly at her.

“There’s a chance.”

“There is. But part of raising a life is putting that life first. Witch Wiskeria, you may hate your mother. You may disagree with her. But she has ever put your life above her own. She has tried to protect you. And I cannot fault that. I would fault the rest of Belavierr. But never that.”

Califor studied Wiskeria and met Belavierr’s eyes. The Stitch Witch dipped her head slightly. Califor raised her hat.

“I am sorry. But this day, I am a coward first. I cannot let Nanette risk her life. Goodbye. I hope you all survive.”

“Miss Califor!”

The plea came from the [Witch] girl. Nanette made to jump off the horse, and Califor reached out to snatch her back, but Prost interrupted.

“Go on, Miss Nanette. I can’t fault Miss Califor her decision.”

The rest of Rivefarm clearly could, but Prost had something in his eyes. He nodded to both Califor and Belavierr for some reason. Nanette hesitated, and Ryoka called out.

“Go, Nanette.”

She didn’t get it, not right now, but she couldn’t bear the little [Witch] getting hurt. Nanette hesitated, and Mavika spoke.

“Go, child. Do not argue with your master!”

“But—”

Nanette whispered, and Califor ignored her. She steadied Nanette, then pointed and whistled, and the horse and pony took off. They shot past the crowd, out of the village, and Califor didn’t look back.

Ryoka respected that, at least.



——



Califor raced south with Nanette following. Nanette shot one agonized glance backwards. And then they were moving south between two plumes of smoke. And Belavierr’s gaze followed them.

“She is right, you know. She understands what it is to be a mother more than I. Daughter, come with me. I can protect you. You and perhaps a few others. Is that not enough?”

She reached out to Wiskeria. But her daughter recoiled. Wiskeria still couldn’t take her mother’s hand. Too much lay between them. And she gazed around and saw the desperate faces.

Stories. Once, Wiskeria had watched an army die. They had called her their [General]. And she had seen them buried. She had come to Riverfarm and protected it. And she had once loved her mother. For this and so many other reasons, she couldn’t. So Wiskeria begged.

“Mother, please stay! Please! For me?”

Belavierr hesitated. She looked into Wiskeria’s face. And she hesitated. The immortal, distant gaze was gone. A far more mortal one was there. Uncertain. She looked at Wiskeria and stepped away.

“I see it now. You are my death as surely as the fire. If I…no. Daughter, come. You have done all you can here. Come with me and take other lives to save. They will certainly live. If you stay, you risk everything.”

Wiskeria knew it was true. But she clung to hope. And she glanced around. At Chimmy. At Prost, Ram, Durene, Rie, Nesor—and she knew what her answer was. Had to be. She regarded her mother, tears in her eyes.

“I can’t. I can’t abandon them. We can still stop the fire. The fields—”

She couldn’t finish. A chance. She reached, but Belavierr stepped back. The Stitch Witch hesitated. And then she turned away. She looked back just once as she began to stride away.

“I must go. Daughter, please come with me.”

Wiskeria shook her head.

“No. I have to try.”

Belavierr paused. She almost smiled. Strangely. Awkwardly. But she just seemed…sad.

“I never did understand you. But D—Wiskeria. My beloved daughter. I do not want to end. Even for you.”

For a moment, she hesitated, and Wiskeria looked at her. Belavierr, who had faced down Raim and the [Witch Hunters], who had remained and worked great magic for her daughter—surely she would stay. Surely…

The Witch of Webs turned away. Just like that, as if Wiskeria were suddenly, like Raim, a lost memory. She ignored her daughter’s call, her cloak whirling, her burnt features set.

Then she was gone, walking away towards a black horse that rode towards her. She mounted it and rode away like Califor did.

And then it did feel like the…end. Ryoka Griffin looked around. The villagers stared after Belavierr. Their panic turned into a cold certainty. They looked at each other. And they began to flee.

“If you run, you’ll burn! With me! Everyone, dig, with a spade—with your hands if you have to! We need that wall and fire break to be as long as possible! Move!”

Prost roared, trying to regain control, but now it was a panic of people, many fleeing in every direction. Some of Lancrel’s folk and the outsiders stayed, like Jelov, and almost all of Riverfarm ran towards the river. They listened to Prost and believed this was safest. But others just ran.

The coven—the coven was breaking. Alevica was next. Ryoka saw her call her broom towards her. The Witch Runner grinned shakily. She was still pale and clutching her stomach where she’d been stabbed.

“Alevica.”

“Wotcha, Ryoka. Hey, listen. It’s been great, really. But it’s time to go. Catch you later if you make it out, okay?”

The [Witch] stopped as Ryoka grabbed her shoulder. She spoke urgently, trying weakly to prize Ryoka’s hands off her.

“Look, our debt’s settled. Me helping you with the charm? All settled! I owe you, even! But—I’m not staying. Not for this. Not if you paid me two thousand gold pieces. I—I don’t want to die, Ryoka.”

She tried to take off. Ryoka let go of her. Alevica flew upwards. And then her broomstick wobbled.

“No—no!”

The [Witch] crashed down to earth. Alevica rolled, tried to get up. She cursed. Eloise walked over towards her. The old [Witch]’s face was grave.

“You’re out of power. You spent it in the ritual. And your wound’s taken the rest.”

“No! I can do this! I just need a potion!”

Alevica stumbled unsteadily to her feet. Eloise shook her head. She slapped Alevica across the face. The Witch Runner stared at her.

“Alevica. If you fly, you will die. That Drake will pick you off. They’re trained in air combat, and you’ll run out of mana, even with potions. Come with us. Mavika has agreed to fly with us.”

She pointed. Hedag stood with Mavika. The [Executioner] was speaking with Miss Yesel. The woman’s face was white. She was pushing a screaming Chimmy towards her. More parents were clustered around Mavika, Hedag. Holding children. Ryoka’s mind went still when she saw that. Alevica looked up, desperate, relieved.

“You won’t leave me?”

Eloise shook her head. She pointed south, the way the other [Witches] had gone.

“Califor can ride through the fire as it hasn’t fully spread yet. But it will be far harder for us. I propose fire-resistance charms. We move in a group. We can take children, some villagers perhaps. No more.”

“Eloise—!”

Wiskeria’s voice was pleading. The [Lady] turned [Witch] peered at her and shook her head. She walked back towards Hedag. Mechanically, Wiskeria and Ryoka followed.

“We cannot take all the children.”

Mavika hissed impatiently. Hedag cradled an infant in her arms. Her eyes were unblinking. And there was that same terrible light in them as when she had swung her axe.

“No. But your crows might lift some. Some might fall and die. ‘Tis up for the parents to decide. Those that can run will come with us. No more than fifty.”

Mavika paused and nodded. Eloise’s gaze was distant. She bowed her head.

“Very well. We can try to part the flames for that many. But there are more that will follow. They’ll try to stop us.”

“Let them try. My flock will chase those who follow away.”

Mavika’s eyes were dark. Wiskeria glanced around. The hope and panic had turned dark. People were watching. Listening to the [Witches]. More were congregated around the river. Some had gone back to the village, returning with hammers, wood.

Galloping hooves. Ryoka spun. Charlay stopped in front of her. The Centauress gulped, coughed. The sky was orange. The flames had turned the sky glowing. In the distance, everything was smoke and fire.

“Ryoka. I’m going. Are you coming?”

“Charlay?”

Ryoka looked up at her. And then she looked around. Wiskeria was watching her. Ryoka hesitated.

“Charlay, the fire’s everywhere. I’m staying. The [Witches] might not give you safe passage. If you helped carry them, maybe—”

“No. I’m going. I can run faster than anyone else. If you wanted to come with me—”

Ryoka hesitated. She felt it too. Fear. She was afraid. But—it was already too late. She shook her head.

“The fire’s already surrounding us. The safest thing is to go with the [Witches] if they’d let us, Charlay. And that’s…we could survive here. I’ll try to blow the fire away when it gets close. With the river, there’s a chance—stay here!”

But the Centauress shook her head.

“I’m sorry. I don’t want to die either.”

She turned. Ryoka shouted desperately.

“Charlay! Don’t! No matter how fast you run, the smoke will kill you!”

There was no way the Centauress could break through that much fire. Charlay glanced back once.

“I’m sorry!”

Then she ran. Ryoka wavered. And then she ran, shouting.

“Charlay! Don’t! It’s—”

Seeing Ryoka run after Charlay was the last straw. Wiskeria saw the last group of people not frantically working with Prost run to the river. But why there? The [Witch] saw as she spotted a group of makeshift boats. And leading them, at the head of a group of Lancrel’s folk, was Councilwoman Beatica. The woman was shouting at Lady Rie, who was arguing with her.

“You will not make it down the river, Councilwoman! Listen to me, all of you!”

Lady Rie was shouting to make herself heard. But no one was listening. Panicked, they grabbed for the overladen, crude boats. That was what Lancrel’s people had been doing rather than working on the firebreaks. Wiskeria felt a surge of fury. And then she heard Beatica’s high, panicked voice.

“We are leaving! We’ll go down the river in boats! The water will give us safety!”

“You’ll die! Do you think the river will protect you? The water will boil you if you swim, and if you go in boats, you’ll die to the heat and smoke! The wind is blowing—”

Lady Rie’s voice fell on deaf ears. Beatica screamed, and the first boat shoved off. A huge crowd of people followed it into the water, grabbing at the other boats. Several capsized; the rest shoved down the river, overladen. More people followed, swimming, trusting to the water. Wiskeria looked up and saw Lady Rie’s pale face.

“They could make it.”

“No. I spoke to Laken. The fire engulfs the river on both sides. The smoke is too thick. Some may survive. But they will be far too few. We may have to retreat to the river ourselves. But—”

Rie turned away. She slowly walked back towards the field. There was fire on the breeze now. Fire and ash. Eloise, Hedag, Mavika, and Alevica stood with a group of children and a few parents, all laden. They watched her.

Wiskeria wavered. She searched for Ryoka. For Durene and Prost, still desperately working. Frostwing was screaming as she flew in a circle overhead. Even Bismarck was pushing dirt towards the wall the villagers were trying to build.

Then someone cried out. Ram turned and pointed. And everyone looked up. Wiskeria didn’t see it at first, lost amid the lurid orange glow on the horizon. And then she saw the movement in the skies. Hope finally extinguished itself in her.

It came out of the storm cloud fueled by smoke. A shifting at first. And then a clear, moving, black and red shape. Everyone turned to watch. [Witches]. Villagers. Wiskeria. Ram’s face was white as he stared up at the writhing pillar of wind and fire.

“Dead gods. What is that?”

“A twister. One made of flames.”

Eloise spoke quietly. The old [Witch] gazed up. It was coming straight at Riverfarm. So fast that Wiskeria could see it travelling across the ground. The flames were coming with it. Embers flying through the sky. And the Drake was laughing as the last scrolls fell from his claws. The [Witches] glanced at each other. Mavika spread her arms, feathers emerging from her robes.

“I am sorry. But I cannot shield you from that.”

Eloise nodded.

“I understand. Go.”

The Crow [Witch] hesitated. Her crows were flying off, led by her raven, fleeing the approaching tornado. Wiskeria looked at Mavika. And then she felt her mother’s name on her lips. Eloise and Hedag were gazing at her.

“Wiskeria!”

A voice bellowed her name. Wiskeria turned. She saw Durene. Durene and Ryoka. The half-Troll girl was carrying a limp shape. Charlay. Wiskeria ran over to her.

“What happened?”

“She tried to go south. The wind is throwing embers at us. The smoke—she passed out.”

Ryoka was burned across her shirt and face. She peered at Wiskeria. And then back at the twister. Wiskeria’s voice was numb.

“I can try to get you out. And Charlay, if she wakes up. Maybe my mother can hear me still. But I don’t think she can stop that.”

The City Runner nodded.

“Do what you have to do. But I still think there’s a chance.”

Wiskeria laughed. The laughter was high, hysterical. As close to cackling as she’d ever come.

“How? How can anyone flee that?”

The young woman didn’t answer. She was looking at the twister. And Mavika hadn’t fled. She was watching Ryoka. Dreamily, Ryoka got up. She glanced at Durene. Charlay. Prost, who had gone to his family. Rie, the [Witches], and then at Wiskeria.

“Stay here. The land’s cleared. The fire can’t spread. It’ll throw embers and smoke, but you might be able to make it, like Laken said. Stay low to the ground. The smoke goes up. Get in the water, maybe, although it could boil. Either way, there’s a chance. If you can make oxygen, air, do it. Shield everyone here.”

She pointed around. More than half of Riverfarm hadn’t fled. Perhaps because there was nowhere to go. Perhaps because they still believed in an [Emperor]’s words. Ryoka took another breath. Coughed. She was shaking. She looked at Eloise, Hedag, and Mavika. Alevica was sitting on the ground, her head in her hands.

“You—[Witches]. If you stay, could you protect them?”

“We might. We could try calling air and redirecting the fire. But we could also run.”

Hedag leaned on her axe, eying the flames to the south. She was watching Ryoka too. So was Eloise. And even Alevica looked up. Because Wiskeria felt it too. Ryoka’s fear had subsided. A calm resolve was in her. She was still terrified. But she was calm. Ryoka nodded. She addressed Hedag, gesturing the way Califor had gone.

“The fire’s too wide to break through. If you could fly, you might make it. You’ll never do it on foot. Califor? Maybe. You’re on foot. And the horses will panic. This is safest. You know wildfires.”

Hedag’s eyes glinted.

“Aye, I do, Runner-Girl. There’s sense in what you say. Stay. But that whirlwind of flame will be our end either way.”

“Not if I stop it.”

Ryoka gazed up. And her expression was bleak. But she smiled. Wiskeria looked at her, disbelieving.

“Stop it? You?”

“Wind’s child.”

Mavika murmured. Ryoka nodded. She stood up, remembering what Califor had said, and suddenly she was as light as a feather. Relaxed.

She was going to fail.

But she had to try. Ryoka spoke to the witches, to everyone.

“I came here for a reason. It might have just been because Laken asked me. Maybe it was curiosity. Or maybe it was this. I’ll try. The wind listens to me. If I can’t change the direction the tornado’s coming, go down the river. And tell Erin—tell Laken—I did my best.”

She turned. Wiskeria shouted at her back. But Ryoka was already running. Running straight ahead. And the wind blew faintly at her back. As the tornado raged and came towards her.



—–



“You will never thank me for this, Nanette. Nor will I be proud, but perhaps, someday, you will understand why I did it.”

That was all Witch Califor said as she drew a blade. She swung it and cut through a wall of fire and parted the inferno for her rearing horse. Then dismounted to drag both her horse and Nanette’s pony through the ash.

Behind them, the fires advanced, and Nanette felt the wildfire raging. The tornado had come to earth. And the witches and Riverfarm were trapped.

Nanette was crying. The burning fire dried her tears. But the flames never touched her. She rode, clutching Miss Califor’s dress. The [Witch] rode the stallion through the flames. Behind them, Nanette’s horse had fallen.

But they were free of the fire. They broke through the fire and burning skies into ash and clearer skies. Califor was breathing hard. But as she slowed the dark horse, she was untouched. She gazed down at Nanette.

“Nanette.”

The [Witch] girl’s eyes and nose ran. She looked back at the fire. She could see how far it stretched. And in the distance, the whirlwind of flame.

“They’re going to die. All of them.”

She’d thought Califor could save them. Do anything. Now, Nanette knew how Wiskeria felt, and it was too painful.

Califor didn’t reply. She just leaned on her horse, panting. And she seemed tired. The two glanced around the ash and smoldering landscape. They had made it. Califor had ridden through the flames, refused to let them take her.

But how many had her magic? Who else could run away? Nanette looked back desperately. But no one else broke through the wall of fire. Califor dismounted and gripped the horse’ reins.

“Stay on the saddle, Nanette. We must keep moving. And keep an eye on the skies for that Drake.”

The [Witch] cautioned Nanette, and she urged the horse forwards. Nanette was still crying. She didn’t respond. The two cut out of the fire as Califor slashed a hole onto a cleared section of burnt road. No one would be able to follow; it was too deadly.

However, someone was ahead of them, standing on the road.

Belavierr halted next to her dark horse, who stood there, stock-still, not even pawing the ground despite the flames being so close. Nanette blinked incredulously.

She’d made it! No—she looked burnt; getting through the flames had to be dangerous, but the Stitch Witch would live if she fled.

But her daughter was in Riverfarm. Nanette gave Belavierr a betrayed glance, almost as much as her feelings towards Califor.

—Until she saw Belavierr’s face. The Stitch Witch had halted in the burnt road, her eyes cast backwards. A flaming tapestry was burning on the ground away from her, and the beautiful piece of magic…a twisting girl was caught in the flames. Then, a woman.

Belavierr didn’t move. She stood there and watched them. Califor and Nanette halted.

“Belavierr. Your daughter wouldn’t come?”

“No. I escaped, but she would not run. She will die there, wind or not. For the lives of the villagers. I foresee it. Witch Califor—you had the strength to escape the fire.”

“The others might, if they stick together.”

Belavierr raised her hat, giving Califor a lost stare.

Nanette saw Miss Califor grip the reins tighter. The horse Nanette rode snorted, eyes wide. It was as wary of Belavierr’s beast as the fire. Nanette froze. But the Stitch Witch didn’t say anything more. She just sat astride her horse, regarding them. And then she spoke.

“Witch Califor. The fire is vast. A blaze without magic. But in its way, more terrible than a [Knight]’s fire. Few Archmages I remember could defeat such a blaze alone.”

“Perhaps you remember them. But fewer still could put out a fire today.”

Califor’s voice was sharp. Tired. Belavierr paused, then nodded.

“My daughter remains. She refused to leave. I cannot save her. Not without facing—”

She stared at the flames and shivered. They seemed to reach for her, even as they advanced, and Belavierr’s gaze swung to the tapestry. Her death.

Nanette’s breath caught. She looked at Miss Califor. The older [Witch] bowed her head.

“Stubborn girl. She made her choice. We are all selfish witches in the end.”

Belavierr’s gaze didn’t waver.

“Yes. She is a fool, but my daughter. Ever my daughter. I have never counted the cost of her to me. We are one thing.”

Almost, she turned back, but the flames were licking higher, and in the distance, a tornado rose. Belavierr shrank from the flames.

“Tell me, Witch Califor. Do you know of a way to stem the fire? I can think of only one way.”

Miss Califor paused and nodded.

“I know of the same way myself. But the cost is not one I would pay. Nor do I think you wish to pay it. But it is possible.”

“Yes.”

Belavierr whispered the words. She looked back, and Nanette saw she was afraid. Her eyes turned back, and Nanette stared into that ringed, orange gaze. Belavierr paused.

“She is my daughter. But the choice is mine. I do not wish to pay it.”

Califor’s voice was sharp. She sat on her horse, wand raised, in, Nanette realized, a standoff. The smoke was choking the air, and Nanette reached up and felt at her burnt, messy braids. They itched and seemed to rustle as Belavierr glanced at Nanette, then Califor. Califor put her own hand out, shielding Nanette.

“That is every [Witch]’s decision. I would not fault you either way. To protect Nanette, I abandoned the coven. I would do it again.”

Miss Califor’s voice was quiet. Belavierr nodded. She paused—then reached out—and Califor caught her hand. Belavierr had taken a step forwards, a dozen feet—and Witch Califor had rode forwards as well. Passed eight feet in a single horse’s hoof—caught Belavierr, and rebuffed her, so the other [Witch] rocked on her feet.

“Let us part ways now, Witch Belavierr. Fire surrounds us. Not your element. We have seen too much loss. Do not push it further.”

Califor’s eyes were warning, her voice overly loud. Nanette saw Belavierr staring at her, and the Stitch Witch’s eyes swung to Califor.

Califor twisted Belavierr’s arm, and Belavierr grimaced. She backed up.

“I merely wished to ask—”

“I decline to talk. Nanette, don’t let her touch you.”

Now, the two were circling, eyeing Nanette, but the flames were making Belavierr flinch. Nanette didn’t know what to do, so she lifted her hat.

“I—I bid thee farewell, Witch Belavierr. If I should meet other [Witches], I will speak your name.”

A traditional farewell. But it came out of her throat hard. She felt a cold shiver, like something running down the back of her neck, as she saw Belavierr’s eyes on her. So desperate, now.

So very afraid. Belavierr’s eyes flicked to the fire, her daughter’s burning tapestry. Nanette’s face.

“Once, Wiskeria was as small as you. I remember those days.”

She waited as Nanette put her hat on her head. And then she turned. She seemed old and tired as she sat on the saddle. But she straightened. And the Stitch Witch, Belavierr, looked back at the fire. It blazed behind the three [Witches]. Belavierr sighed. And she turned and nodded at Miss Califor.

“For my daughter, Witch Califor. I might do anything.”

Califor only nodded in reply and gripped her wand tighter. Belavierr tipped her hat, then bent over the tapestry. A burning Wiskeria stood there, and Belavierr reached for the dying flame.

All will die. None will remain. Nanette was weeping again.

Witch Califor had no time to watch Belavierr hesitating. She jerked her head urgently.

“Move, Nanette.”

She led her apprentice past the Stitch Witch, watching Belavierr, but the Stitch Witch just raised her head and looked at Califor, defeated. And now Califor was urging Nanette to gallop, carrying Nanette across the burned land to safety. Miss Califor kept her gaze ahead as her apprentice kept crying.

“Miss Calif—”

Nanette’s voice cut off. The girl made a strangled noise and scrabbled at her neck. Califor halted. Califor, heart pounding, stared at the little, brown ribbon and fumbled for a knife.

When she looked up, a woman stood behind Nanette, tipping her hat.



—–



Ryoka saw it burning ahead of her. So much fire that it didn’t seem real. It looked like the entire world was on fire. It was like staring at hell. A vision of it.

She was afraid. Terrified. The wind wasn’t coming to her aid. It was shackled. Forced to blow against its will. But fire and pressure had created that tornado. And now it raged, hurtling towards Riverfarm. Ryoka had struggled to stop strong breezes. How could she stop this?

The City Runner ran on. Coughing, choking as the smoke grew heavier. She tried to keep low, but beyond this point had been when Charlay passed out. She tried to call the wind—ran on.

Past a hill with a burnt stump and ruined grass. A bit of unmarked soil marked a traitor’s grave. A [Witch] with a huge hat sat at the base of the hill. Her clothes were dark. Her eyes orange and ringed. She glanced up as Ryoka passed by.

“Oh, hello. Terrible weather, isn’t it?”

The City Runner stopped. She stared wide-eyed at Belavierr. The Stitch Witch was just sitting there. She nodded ahead at the burning oblivion and tornado growing in the distance.

“Miss Ryoka Griffin. Would you like to speak for a moment? Or is now a bad time?”

Ryoka nearly laughed. It was the same Belavierr. The same—but different. She still didn’t know what to say. She still guessed at being normal. But she was Human. And she looked weary as Ryoka halted.

“I can stop for a moment. But I’ve got a date with the fire.”

“As do we all. You run towards it.”

“Yeah. I guess I think I can do something about it. Why’re you here? I thought you left.”

“I have not decided yet. My death comes. But my daughter stays. So I wait. I am wondering. If.”

“If?”

Belavierr’s eyes glinted.

“If I should take her by force. If I can avoid my death.”

Ryoka glanced at the tornado. It hadn’t grown larger. So she hesitated. Gestured back towards Riverfarm.

“You seem certain. Aren’t there a lot of ways you survive?”

Belavierr shook her head.

“No. My death is fairly certain. I have seen it. I wove the tapestry with a [String of Fate] that I might see my deaths. And I saw the [Knight] and fire. This is the second of my deaths.”

“Yeah, but you could leave—you don’t have to stay for Wiskeria’s sake. Or abduct her.”

The [Witch] sighed. Loudly. She glanced up at Ryoka again.

“If it was that easily avoided, it would not be my death. I know myself, Ryoka Griffin. So long as my daughter remains, I do too. I only wonder if my death would save her. Or if there is a way to escape it. The last time took the death of a man. A traitor’s choice. And my immortality. This time, I have neither to give.”

She stared at the fire in the distance. Ryoka watched it. But—she still had time. So she walked over to Belavierr. She looked at the Stitch Witch. Belavierr glanced at her. She was holding threads in her fingers. Was she playing some…convoluted game of cat’s cradle? It seemed like it, with threads as thin as hair. She noticed Ryoka staring at it, and the threads vanished into one sleeve. Belavierr paused, peering at the City Runner.

“Tell me something. Once, before, you called yourself my daughter’s friend. And you proposed to help us reconcile. How did you intend to do that, Ryoka Griffin? Or was that a lie?”

Ryoka shrugged her eyes on the fire. It had slowed down, definitely.

“I had a plan. I was going to get you to do some magic with Wiskeria. Something positive. Like—making more charms. She’d have to help you and maybe learn something. And you’d show her you could do good. I thought that was worth a try. I mean, I know I’m not an expert. But no one else was trying to help.”

“Hm. Strange.”

“What is?”

“You. Few people wish to aid me. My daughter has told me she hates me. What makes you wish to help me?”

The young woman hesitated. She sat down across from Belavierr, keeping one eye on the fire.

“I don’t agree with Wiskeria. I don’t think you’re good or evil. And I think…it’s good you survived. I just wish Ser Raim didn’t die. And the [Hunters]…”

She paused. Embarrassed. Ashamed. But that was her thing. She liked immortals. Despite herself, she still liked Belavierr. Vampires, Dragons, the fae—there should be a place for them in this world. Even for the [Witch] who sat there.

“All you do is offer deals. And it’s the people who take them that suffer. There’s a justice in that.”

Belavierr half-smiled.

“I’m capable of offering poor deals, Ryoka Griffin. Of making threats. I sewed your lips together, as you recall.”

Ryoka ran a tongue over her lips.

“True. Do you do that often?”

“No. My craft demands I am fair. Things taken by force have less value. But my daughter does not lie when she calls me a monster. I think.”

“Right. But I can’t help…respecting what makes you not fit in my world. My best friend was like you, in a way.”

“Hmm. Strange. You are much like my daughter, Ryoka Griffin.”

“How so?”

Belavierr looked up. She shrugged.

“I do not understand you. Nor my daughter. I do not understand her. Despite losing my immortality. But I would rather she lived, especially now that she has found her purpose. I was…happy to learn of it.”

“What? Her craft? You mean when she hit you with lightning? And she used justice against you? You liked that?”

Ryoka had her own opinion of that moment. The idea of calling on a collective will like that made her feel uneasy. It spoke to her of lynch mobs and public will. But she was hardly about to debate that with the tornado—Ryoka cast a quick glance ahead. It hadn’t moved? Or had it barely crept closer? What was going on?

Belavierr just smiled, though.

“Justice? Oh, that. Well, Wiskeria is free to make mistakes.”

“You think it’s not her craft.”

Ryoka blinked at her. The [Stitch Witch] nodded back the way Ryoka had come.

“Justice is a fickle, untrustworthy thing. It twists and bites, and it is a harsh ruler. It can consume everything or ignore half-wrongs. It is a stupid choice for a [Witch]. But that is not what gives me joy, Ryoka Griffin. It is my daughter discovering she could take it.”

“I don’t follow.”

The Stitch Witch paused. She glanced up and shook her head.

“When she took it from the villagers, she did what no [Witch] could. Not one of us. She became a new [Witch] in that moment. A [Witch] for the new era. One who can harness the power that belongs to law. The power of order and rules. That is Wiskeria’s true craft. It will make her strong. Perhaps—stronger than the old ways ever could. And most importantly—I know what drives her.”

Slowly, she tapped her chest.

“Me. Her hate for me let her find her craft. And it was what made her a [Witch]. And what stopped her from finding her path before now.”

“But that’s…”

Ryoka held her tongue. Belavierr glanced at her.

“What?”

“It’s so…isn’t it painful?”

The Stitch Witch paused. For a second, something like that flitted over her face. Then she just shook her head.

“Better that I am the source of her strength. Far better that I know it. I…have given her nothing. My daughter. From the day I found her and took her as my own, I tried to give her many things. I have given her food. Shelter. What I knew of…love. But poorly. I know that now. And I have given her nothing since we parted. If I could—if she asked—I would give her what she desired.”

“What, exactly?”

Belavierr stretched her hands out.

“Gold. Fame. Power. If my daughter asked, I would find it and give it to her. Whatever the cost. Because she is my daughter. But she does not ask. And she never will.”

Ryoka paused. She sat across from Belavierr. She studied the Stitch Witch.

“Can I have—”

“No.”

“What about a little charm? Like the one you put on Wiskeria…?”

“No. I offer nothing for nothing. My daughter is the one exception.”

Ryoka sighed, staring at the distant fire. Time hung still around the two of them. At last, Belavierr seemed to notice Ryoka’s worry.

“Do you wait for the fire?”

“Yup. I’ve got to do something before it gets to Riverfarm. But it’s not moving closer. Are…are you doing that? Or is that Drake out of wind? It’s still blowing. So why…?”

Ryoka frowned, licking her finger and feeling the air. Belavierr smiled.

“You need not worry. We sit together in an [Immortal Moment].”

Ryoka jumped.

“A—?”

“A useful Skill. I learned it the last time I leveled up. Recently.”

Ryoka hesitated, then bit her tongue nearly hard enough to break the skin. Belavierr turned her head.

“What?”

“Nothing. Uh…Wiskeria doesn’t want gold. Treasure? Power? She never asks for any of it? Not even once?”

The [Witch] stared at Ryoka. And then she shook her head slowly.

“When she was young, she asked it of me. Toys. Small things. I gave them to her. And then—she asked a favor of me. On behalf of a boy she knew. On the day she became a [Witch].”

“Will you tell me what happened? Since we have time?”

Belavierr nodded. She gazed up at the burning sky.

“It was a different time. We had fled the village where she grew up. My craft had enraged the villagers. Perhaps she hated me then? But she never said it. And I found a second home. One in a city. I believe she struggled then, because of me. But for her, I used my craft for gold. And I attracted attention. I cared not for it, but for her I worked my spells. And she made friends. One of them was a boy. I do not remember his name. But one day, my daughter came to me with a request.”

Ryoka waited. Belavierr’s eyes were lost. She spoke on dispassionately. Her face unchanged as it glowed in distant fire’s light.

“She wanted me to grant his request. For he was a [Prince]. The prince of his nation. The Griffin Prince? That was it. The new one. And she called him a dear friend. So I agreed. And the boy told me he wanted to be proof against blades that he might be the mightiest [Prince] his kingdom had ever seen. A worthy [King].”

She paused. Her face changed not one whit. Ryoka spoke.

“And? What did you do?”

Belavierr looked at her oddly.

“I did it, of course. I gave him his protection against blades. To do it, I cut him apart, piece by piece. And I wove him of my magic again. So long as my craft endures, he will be proof against blades. I did that for my daughter, but she fled me. And she cursed my name. That was the day she told me she hated me, Ryoka Griffin. That was the day…she became a [Witch]. And she left my side thereafter. Then, I did not understand why. I am trying to remember why it could be now.”

She paused, frowning. Ryoka just stared at her and felt cold. Here sat a monster. Or if not a monster…someone else. Mortal, yes. But…she cleared her throat, coughed.

“Was he screaming when you cut him apart and…sewed him together?”

“Who?”

Another blank expression. Ryoka paused.

“The Griffin Prince.”

Belavierr stared at Ryoka. And then she blinked and sighed.

“Oh. That was why she hated it.”

She shook her head. Ryoka was silent. Belavierr looked at her hands, mystified, and then tired.

“It has been a long time since I took my first life. So long that I cannot even remember who it was or how. Or why. But—I still remember a young woman who swore she would never forget that day. Yet that day itself? I am old. Too old to have been a mother to my daughter.”

“Why did you do it, then?”

Ryoka was endlessly curious. But she felt the moment coming to a close. The fire tornado was moving again, ever so slowly. But she and Belavierr clung to this conversation. Both feared the future. Belavierr shook her head.

“I don’t know. But there she lay. And she looked up at me. And she would have died had I not picked her up. So I did. Because it filled something in me.”

That was it. A monster. Immortal. Unfeeling. Distant. A [Witch]. But it was her, Wiskeria, alone who grounded Belavierr. Ryoka just didn’t understand why. So she asked.

“Why? Why are you going to die for her? Why can’t you leave her or let her die and not care like so many others? Belavierr the Stitch Witch, why does Wiskeria matter to you?”

The Stitch Witch peered at her. And she took a long time in replying.

“In any sewing, there is a first stitch and a last stitch. And there must be a knot. An ending, or else what is made must unravel.”

Ryoka nodded.

“So is Wiskeria the first or last stitch?”

Another look.

“She is my daughter, not a thread. I am making a comparison. We each are a tapestry, a weaving. And she was not the first or last thread in mine. I am my own work. And yet, somehow, though my first stitch was sewn long before hers, her threads and mine are interwoven. We are tangled together. But separate.”

Belavierr wove her fingers together, staring at them. She went on quietly.

“And yet, somehow, despite my daughter’s youth, despite that she and I share no blood save for the original blood of humanity, she matters to my tapestry. She is bright color on darkest cloth. Without her, night is the same as day. Without her, contrast fails. And I would have no meaning.”

She looked up, seeming slightly…

“It is how I can explain it. Does that answer your question, Ryoka Griffin?”

“Yeah.”

The City Runner glanced away. And she stood up. She avoided Belavierr’s eyes as the [Witch] looked questioningly at her. Then Ryoka turned and nodded.

“I wish my mother had said she loved me like that. So that’s why it’s your death.”

Belavierr nodded. There she sat. And the moment passed. Ahead of her, the tornado burned. Ryoka gazed ahead. Belavierr spoke.

“I would like to be loved. I am afraid of death. My daughter must live. But I fear death. So I search for an alternative. Perhaps there is one. But a mother’s love holds me here. But you. You have no child. Why do you run to your death? You fear it too, don’t you?”

“Oh yes.”

Ryoka looked ahead. And the fire howled. The wind blew hot on her face, and she shivered. She was afraid.

“Then why do you run to yours?”

The young woman turned. And she smiled at Belavierr. At the curious face. Ryoka breathed in. And she sighed. She reached for her belt and touched a bit of frozen courage. A bit of friendship.

“Because I have a choice. And I’m afraid of who I would be if I left. I’d like to be a good person.”

“How strange.”

Ryoka laughed. Then she began to run. She left the [Witch] where she sat. And she ran forwards, trotting, jogging, and then running. Ahead of her, a twister of ash and flame bore down on her.

“Wind. Come on. I know you’re more than a tool for someone to use. You’re free. Come on. Run with me.”

Ryoka whispered. She shouted. And the wind blew around her, clearing the ash. It was all fire. Embers blew past Ryoka, smoke and sparks mixing. The ground burned. Ryoka’s soles blistered as she came close to the blaze. But she looked up. The tornado was blowing waves of heat at her. She raised her arm. And she shouted.

“I am the Wind Runner! And I call the wind! Be free!”

She turned. And she began to run. Fast. Faster than she had ever run. The wind howled behind her. And the tornado raged. It blew towards Riverfarm, caught by the wind that pushed at its back. Until it sensed the second breeze. And the young woman who called it.

The whirlwind of fire turned. It began to blow after Ryoka. And she laughed. She ran, trying to outrun the pillar of flames that swerved after her. She had never known the wind could turn to fire! She ran, and the ice in her hand froze her as the fire burned behind her. Chasing her.

Once, Ivolethe had told her that she didn’t understand the wind. And Ryoka still didn’t. She could not fly. She could not run with the wind. But she could lead it. And she did.

She ran. The tornado of fire raced after her over barren grass, turning away from Riverfarm. Chasing the young woman who dared it. She ran on, laughing, screaming as it burned her. Carrying it as far as she could with every step. Faster and faster until she ran with the racing fire. Across scorched ground. Through ash and embers.

Faster. The wind howled at her back. And the fire caught her. It touched her and embraced her, but she did not let it consume her. And she ran with fire. Until the fire was spent and flickering, far from its fuel. Then the young woman stopped. She glanced back and saw the trail she had run. And the fiery winds had nothing left to burn. Ryoka Griffin spread her arms, laughing. She looked at her charred body and fell.

“Impossible.”

Overhead, the Oldblood Drake stared as the whirlwind of fire changed course. He stared as the young Human woman ran and it followed. She should have died in that first hundred feet. But she ran on. And the tornado blew after her. It lost the fire that gave it strength and heat. The winds refused to blow to Riverfarm! The Drake screamed his fury. He watched the City Runner fall. And he contemplated her death. But she was already burnt.

The Drake turned his gaze towards the village. The wind now blew where it pleased. And the tornado was gone. But the fire was still advancing, devouring the dry landscape. He whispered as he flew lower. He had long since used his fire breath past its limit. But he had a mission to finish.

“It will still happen. The village will still burn. And so will they. If I have to finish it myself.”

So the Drake dove. He breathed, and the fire raged. It raced over the fire break, fanned by his breath, which set the very earth alight. Until it met the five [Witches] who stood against it.



—–



“Hold it back. Hold. It. Back.”

Wiskeria stood shoulder-to-shoulder with Hedag, Eloise, Mavika, and Alevica. The [Witches] faced the flames as they raced across the edges of the fire break. Wiskeria’s palm was raised. And all of her force was directed towards the fire.

Embers burned as they flew towards the villagers. Sparks and smoke parted as the [Witches] held their ground. The people of Riverfarm were gasping, falling back towards the river. They were surrounded by fire. On the other side, the fire was licking at the village’s wooden buildings. When they went up, the inferno would trap them on both sides.

It was hot. Wiskeria was trying to hold back heat and ember and smoke. She could feel the blood vessels bursting in her eyes, her nose. She staggered. The four other [Witches] stood with her, combining their power. They wavered, and the fire advanced.

Durene was still trying to fight the fire with dirt and a shovel. The others had fled backwards towards the center of the fields. A shrinking circle of people huddled together as the smoke and heat drove more and more towards unconsciousness. Wiskeria gritted her teeth. Just a bit longer. A bit longer and the flames might extinguish themselves! Run out of fuel!

Then a spark of light made her turn. She looked across the river and saw it. Bright flames. Burning brighter for what they consumed. A low groan escaped her lips. Riverfarm was on fire.

But the fire could not spread by the wind. Ryoka had set it free. Wiskeria watched the village begin to burn. Then she turned her attention ahead. The fire had halted. The fields gave it so little to consume, and the firebreak had stopped it. Wiskeria held her ground. And she held it. They could do this. They could!

Then her death fell from the skies on copper wings. The Drake breathed fire, and his breath ignited the earth itself. The [Witches] glanced up and scattered. And the fire, unblocked, raced forwards.

“Burn! All of you!”

The Drake roared his fury. Wiskeria fell to one knee as the other [Witches] dodged. She saw Eloise raise her hand. Together, they tried to stop the flames. And the fire’s backlash set Eloise aflame. The old [Witch] screamed.

Wiskeria saw the fire racing forwards, burning and adding to the Drake’s flames. They went straight for Riverfarm’s folk, who cried out in fear and despair. The Drake laughed. Wiskeria lay on the ground, spent. She looked up as the fire touched her and began to burn her.

“I tried.”

She tried to cry. But it was too hot. She lay there, burning. And the scream bubbled at her lips. Her people were screaming behind her, catching flame as the Drake burned them, as the fire burned them all.

Riverfarm.

People.

[Witches].



——



The flames were covering the people, the [Witch], and embers fell from the sky like a mockery of rain. An inferno that would kill even if the fire didn’t burn; the very air was impossible to breathe.

An [Emperor] was screaming, unable to do a thing. A Drake was laughing as he looked down at enemies he had never met before this month.

Fire. It could not be stopped, but perhaps—

Perhaps it did not have to kill all.

Wiskeria, burning, saw a figure riding towards her across the river. The river was almost gone, yet the horse leapt across the gap, and a woman lifted her glowing gaze. The inferno did not touch her. The horse she rode was black. And she sat on it, her hat pointed. Her eyes flashing. Her voice was like thunder.

“Halt, fire! You race and burn everything away! But I? I have a life I must save! So burn and follow me!”

Choking. Flames covering her, searing her with an agony—Wiskeria’s eyes were blurring. She could barely hear; her hair was on fire. She whispered.

“Mom?”

The [Witch] rode forwards. Her voice called the flames.

They halted, across the river, as they licked at Riverfarm’s houses, and the tornado caught the Wind Runner. The flames on Wiskeria stopped burning and—turned.

Towards the [Witch]. She lifted her hand, beckoning them, spreading her arms wide, welcoming them, and the fire ran. It leapt off Wiskeria. She felt her agony cease, saw Prost, shielding his family with his arms, turn as flames jumped off his back.

Such a cry of relief. Of life. Wiskeria’s voice was the same until she saw where they headed. Then she grabbed at them.

The [Witch] was riding past Wiskeria. Her back was straight, her blue dress fluttering, the only color in a world of opposites. Red and black, streams of orange and yellow, flashing around her. Then it was as if the entire world followed after her.

A stream of blue and her ringing voice and the hoofbeats sweeping through all the death, drawing it away from the others. Now, she was riding, fast, racing ahead—but the fire was faster.

It caught the [Witch] in a moment. Raced up her horse, and the stallion caught fire. Then the flames touched the woman and covered her in burning light.

The [Witch] screamed. Wiskeria was screaming too, running after her, reaching for her. But it was too late.

The flames on her had gone out. The [Witch] rode on, and the fire leapt from the people. It abandoned the ground and raced after her. She clutched her hat to her head as she galloped, a fireball.

“Come, flame, I offer my magic and craft. I offer a [Witch]’s bones, a mother’s love! I offer my life to turn your wrath! So come and burn away. That my daughter might live one more day.”

“Mother!”

Wiskeria shouted, but the [Witch] didn’t look at her. She was riding away, now, towards the open fields with nothing left to burn but her.

The flames burning the forest, the village—the entire region ablaze followed after like a stream of destruction. Bound in a single woman’s wake. Still, the [Witch] rode on, though the horse was stumbling, and her skin was immolating, turning molten. She was pulling, now.

Pulling the flames—all of them—after her. They roared across the ground, leaving the village, leaving the [Witches]. Burning her.

And still, her back was so straight. Her head rose, despite the agony, and she sat, dignified. Proud.

A [Witch] of legends. Wiskeria’s eyes were blurring with tears, but she had to see. The [Witch] rode ablaze with light, slower, now, the horse stumbling through that empty field. And she laughed. She cackled. With triumph and regret and all her craft. Wiskeria sobbed.

“Mother. Mother!”

The tears ran down her cheeks, and she screamed. Far ahead, the rider was slowing. The horse was failing. And the woman slumped in the saddle. But on they went. A blazing pair, their steps slowing as the flames found nothing left to take. They burned the [Witch]. Devoured her down to her bones, now. And there she stopped. Still sitting upright in that saddle, a skeleton holding onto a burning hat.

Wiskeria ran towards her mother, weeping.

“No. No.”

The Drake flew downwards, screaming. He was spent, coughing. But he had his spear. He dove. And Alevica’s crossbow bolt struck him in the chest. The Drake twisted, and the [Witch] slashed at him, cutting his arm. He snarled and slashed at her, and she flew backwards.

A shriek pierced the black sky. Mavika dove, a monster of wings, and the Drake screamed and struck at her. She ignored the jabbing spear and tore at him.

To earth he fell, snarling. He stood, bleeding, and drank from a bottle. He charged with his spear raised at the old [Witch] who he saw first. And the [Executioner]’s axe caught him across the neck.

“[Headman’s Last Cut].”

The [Infiltrator] jerked. The Oldblood Drake, the smiling man, twisted. He looked into Hedag’s eyes as the axe cut into his neck and shoulder. He jerked away, stumbling. His life’s blood spattered to the ground. Hedag lifted her axe for a second strike, but the Drake spat one last plume of fire, warding her off.

“Healing potion. Healing…”

He reached for it. And he drank it. Splashed it on the wound. But it refused to close. The Drake gazed up into Hedag’s eyes. And she smiled like the sun.

The Drake searched around. The [Witches] stood around him. He reached for his spear. But his arms were out of strength. He gasped, trying to slow the blood with one claw.

“I am one. Just one. Someday, Humans. We will bring you all to justice. Every last one.”

The [Witches] said nothing. They watched as the Drake slowly sat down. He gazed at the blood on his claws. Faintly, slowly, the [Infiltrator] looked up.

“I’m cold.”

He stared up at the sky and died. The [Witches] watched. Then they turned as Wiskeria wept and the last of the fire went out. They bowed their heads and removed their hats.

Rain began to fall.



—–



Charlay found Ryoka. The Centauress was weeping, running from burnt logs to felled trees, calling Ryoka’s name. She found the young woman lying on the ground. Her potions had been destroyed by the fire. Her clothes were barely intact, more fused to her charred flesh than anything.

But she was alive. Charlay hugged her and gave her potions, her hands slipping. It was wet. The rain was falling on the charred landscape. A light drizzle. It hurt Ryoka until the potions did their work. Gently, Charlay carried her back to the others. Ryoka muzzily kept asking whether the others were okay.

Some had died. Two-thirds of the people who had tried the river had perished. Mayor Rodivek had died along with many of Lancrel’s folk. Somehow, Councilwoman Beatica had survived. As if to prove that the fire had taken lives without discrimination.

Those who had fled by ground had perished almost down to the last person. The fire had been too much for anyone on foot or even horseback to outrace. Only Riverfarm remained.

What there was of it. For the fire had eaten away at a number of houses on the edge of the village of Riverfarm, but it hadn’t consumed the village. Nor had it touched the people who’d sheltered in the field. Between the [Witches] and the…end…Ryoka found most alive. Many were burned, but there were healing potions and bandages.

She saw the corpse and rider and the gathering as Charlay brought her through the crowd. Durene helped Ryoka off Charlay’s back and carried her. Ryoka asked to be put down, though she had to lean on her friends. She had to see. She stumbled forwards as the people parted. And her sigh was the only sound in the world.

“Belavierr.”

The fire had burnt her away. Her and the horse. It had made her thinner, burnt at her flesh, reduced the horse into barely…but still she sat there. There was no orange glow in her sockets. No clothing left. Just a body. She and the horse still stood upright. Two charred figures fused into one.

The [Witch] had died mid-laugh, her head thrown up to the sky. Ryoka wondered what Belavierr’s last expression had been. Happy?

People were kneeling around her, staring up at the woman. Not a single person had been spared the flames—but she had taken their death. Ripped it from them. Saved them all.

A bad witch? Ryoka had never seen a better one. She had saved Ryoka, too. The Wind Runner whispered numbly.

“I thought I could stop it.”

One of those gathered around the body glanced up. Wiskeria was kneeling by her mother’s corpse, unmoving. Mavika looked at Ryoka. She bled, but the poison had been tended to. Her expression was sad. Nothing more. She nodded at Ryoka as the other [Witches] gathered around her. Eloise was speaking to Wiskeria, her eyes on the corpse disbelieving—but her words resolute.

“You could not prevent her death. But without you she might have died in vain. She made her choice. And she died a true [Witch].”

Ryoka regarded what remained of Belavierr. It was true. It had been a truly epic magic to end it all. She had contained a wildfire’s inferno in her body and carried it away from Riverfarm. All of it. The fire that had spread for miles had gone out with the [Witch].

And she was dead. Ryoka didn’t know what to say. Searching around, no one did. The people of Riverfarm silently looked on as Wiskeria wept for her mother. They had hated and feared her in life. She had killed Ser Raim, turned Tagil against his companions and to his death. She had manipulated, stolen life, and she had committed atrocities Ryoka couldn’t even imagine. But she had died for her daughter.

Her coven stood around her. Mavika watched in silence, her crows circling, her raven perched, watching. Eloise gazed at Belavierr, mystified, her hat resting in her hands. Hedag leaned on her axe, seeming old and tired and full of grief. Alevica was just sitting, staring up at the [Witch].

Wiskeria wept until there were no more tears, and she just lay there. At last, Prost spoke. He jerked his eyes away from the corpse.

“She deserves to be put to rest. We’ll cremate her? Or should we bury…?”

He looked around. Ryoka stared at him, and the man regarded her blankly.

“She deserves a proper funeral.”

Wiskeria raised her head at that. Her eyes were swollen, but she had finished weeping. At least for now. She stood, Mavika and Eloise supporting her.

“Fire is fine. She won’t mind. It’s only her…body. Besides, it was her death. She wouldn’t care.”

The villagers looked at each other. And slowly, they found wood. Still—glowing embers. They took the remains of houses. Built a pyre larger than any Ryoka had ever seen. It surrounded the [Witch], still mounted. And Wiskeria herself lit it. She had no words to say beyond a whispered goodbye. No one else could say anything.

“Goodbye, Mother.”

Ryoka watched the fire burning upwards, licking at the wood that refused to burn in the light rain. The fire slowly, reluctantly, built.

A pyre for a great witch. One last painful flame…and as they were about to light it, one last time, the last of the coven appeared in the distance.

A woman on horseback and a short figure on a pony. Ryoka had hoped—expected that if anyone had survived, it would be these two.

It gave her a slight smile, and she raised her hand. Riverfarm’s people murmured, without surprise, and Ryoka wondered how Witch Califor would arrive. Ashamed? Unapologetic for riding away?

Ryoka could not blame her. The two rode forwards, the girl on the pony riding hard. The older [Witch] rode slowly, a strange languid motion to her passage, and Ryoka’s lips moved to shout.

“Nanette! Calif—”

A sudden hiss from beside her made Ryoka pause. Mavika, eyes shaded, had stared at the two distant figures. Her crow-eyes had seen something Ryoka had not, and as the Wind Runner turned back, she saw Eloise blanch.

“No. She didn’t—”

The [Witches] looked ahead, then behind, and Ryoka, like a silly girl, stared at their faces. Then the racing girl, riding on horseback, leaving the [Witch] behind. Then—Ryoka heard a shout from Nanette, who rode, crying something out.

A horrified, weeping shout from a daughter. A desperate scream.

“Mother!”

The fire was rising around the burnt [Witch]. As Nanette rode towards Riverfarm, she saw the blaze rising higher. But she almost threw herself onto the flames. Ryoka stared at her until Hedag seized the girl, and the pony reared, screaming, and fled from the flames. But Nanette kicked and tried to leap onto the pyre. Hands outstretched, tears in her eyes.

“Mother! Mother! Mommy!”

The sound broke the silence. It twisted the solemnity, turned it to confusion and discord. Ryoka raised her head. She saw Nanette struggling, tears running down her face.

Wiskeria stared at Nanette. She looked at the burning corpse. Her mother.

“Mother? Nanette, that’s Belavierr. Wait, was she your…?”

No, that couldn’t be right. Belavierr, Nanette’s mother? Wiskeria stared at Nanette without comprehension. There was nothing to support…

Ryoka turned slowly. She felt it. The coven gazed up. Wiskeria held Nanette as the blood drained from her face. Slowly, Ryoka looked to Hedag, who had let go of Nanette and stepped back. And Hedag’s eyes were fixed on the woman riding towards them in the distance.

“Miss Califor?”

She was so distant, yet. Unhurriedly returning after it was all over, sitting tall on her stallion. A tall, imposing woman. Robes so dark as to be almost midnight, but blue, with a splendidly large hat.

Witch Calif—Ryoka’s head swung back to the burnt figure on horseback, to Nanette, screaming as she reached for the dead [Witch]. Then back to ‘Califor’.

And her treacherous eyes revealed the truth: it was not Witch Califor, a tall woman, but not that tall. Face calm as she surveyed the devastation and death.

Relaxed, even triumphant. Regarding the ash-filled sky and mourning people as if they were amusements she were passing by.

Then, Ryoka understood and lost the ability to speak or even think.

Belavierr rode back into Riverfarm as the people looking for Miss Califor turned and saw not the woman who had saved so many, but the Spider, the Witch of Webs. They fell back in shock, turned to statues themselves. Looked up and met her callous eyes. And she?

She smiled in the best of moods and tipped her hat, and they flinched and fled. Stumbling away from her like scattering leaves.

Wiskeria’s eyes were locked on her mother’s face. The coven turned to the burning witch—and now Ryoka saw Nanette’s face. Filled with tears and grief and guilt. And her throat—

A brown choker, a ribbon, tight around Nanette’s neck. As Belavierr dismounted and lifted a hand, it unravelled, and Ryoka recognized it. The ribbon Belavierr had given Nanette.

Hidden in her hair. Then—Ryoka was sick enough to vomit, and only the horror kept it in. Belavierr walked forwards as the ribbon slithered away from Nanette and towards her. She tucked it into her cloak.

When she halted, she just stood there. In front of the coven. Surrounded by Riverfarm. Facing the burning [Witch]. A monster dressed in darkness, the greatest smile of satisfaction on her face.

Belavierr spread her arms wide, wide, and her beaming grin grew. She turned to Wiskeria, the folds of her robes fluttering in the breeze. With ash and death drifting from the folds of her dress. With damnation falling with each word from her mouth.

“My beloved daughter.”

The mourners looked up. Then they turned to the burned [Witch]. And they understood. Ryoka stared into Belavierr’s eyes, and she saw Belavierr’s true heart. The Stitch Witch’s spread arms beckoned Wiskeria, a mother inviting her daughter to leap to her arms.

“I found a way to live and save you, Daughter. Come to my arms.”

Wiskeria stood there, looking back at the real Miss Califor. The burnt witch. At Nanette, who had begun to scream until she had no voice—and then at her mother.

Her mother who had done what she always did: trade.

In this case, a life for a life. Nanette’s…the brown ribbon…for Wiskeria and all of Riverfarm’s. And Belavierr’s.

A glorious bargain. She looked so satisfied with herself. So pleased—

Belavierr didn’t react to Ryoka until the Wind Runner was almost on top of her. Then her gaze flicked sideways, and Ryoka, screaming, punched Belavierr in the chest. She drew something—a knife—and stabbed Belavierr in the side.

Or tried to. Her blade skidded off Belavierr’s dress. Ryoka punched Belavierr in the face, in the chest, and her fist nearly broke. Belavierr tilted her head.

“Ah, Ryoka Griffin. What a fine day it is, isn’t it?”

The Wind Runner tried to murder her—and Belavierr stared at Ryoka and flicked her aside with one hand. Then she looked up.

“Hello, my coven.”

The [Witches] looked at her. A [Witch]. A fellow [Witch]. They had not judged her, not before this. Now?

Alevica drew a wand and sword. Mavika’s claws were talons. Eloise drew a wand, and Hedag lifted her axe.

Mavika slashed across Belavierr’s face. Eloise fired a glowing, pink spell into Belavierr’s side, and Hedag brought her axe down as Alevica fired two shots from her wand at Belavierr’s leg.

The Witch of Webs did not react. She tilted her head as Mavika slashed through her features, claws rending her nose, tearing apart her face and eyes—

And in the next second, Belavierr’s features were whole. The three spells struck her robes and did nothing. Hedag brought her axe down—and it bit deep. Belavierr lifted a hand and caught the axe as Hedag tried to drive it deeper through her shoulder to cleave her in half.

She gently removed the axe and tossed it aside.

“Ah, a coven no longer, I see. I grant you those blows, sisters, as proof of the friendship we shared. But I tell you it was the best deal I struck. For Riverfarm, for me, and for thee. Now, begone, little women. I wish to speak to my daughter.”

They kept attacking her, and Ryoka, sobbing, tried to tackle Belavierr, grab a leg—move her. She could not. Belavierr’s head swung down towards Ryoka, and she gently picked Ryoka Griffin up. Put her on her feet.

Even patted her on the head, and a finger lifted Ryoka’s chin. Belavierr whispered, a smile on her face.

“Do not make me angry, girl. You are alive, and I am in the finest of moods. Step back, be silent. Or I shall make a new pact.”

She caught Mavika’s hand as the crow-witch began to grow.

“The same to you, sisters. In this place, at this time? You have everything to lose. I swore to let Califor’s daughter live in exchange for one great deed. Nothing else.”

Belavierr pointed a finger at Nanette, who didn’t move, reaching toward her mother’s corpse. The [Witches] hesitated.

“Belavierr. You will pay for this. No [Witch] in the world will give you shelter or aid, I swear it by my hat. You have a witch’s grudge—you wretched thing. You worthless pile of shit.”

Eloise was trembling with fury, her voice ringing like someone else—and Belavierr glanced at her dismissively.

“From Mavika that might be a threat, but she knows better than to earn my grudge. The only other woman who could make it well is dead. Begone, broken [Lady] and humbled, little witch. Now see, my daughter, what I have wrought? I am my old self, as you never knew. Do you see? I did it all for you.”

Belavierr swung one arm out, and her smile was a terrible thing. She walked forwards and bent towards her daughter. She reached out, and Wiskeria raised a shaking hand. It had a knife, but Wiskeria was shaking so badly that she could barely hold it. Belavierr captured Wiskeria’s hand, ignoring the blade. Her voice was soft, delighted, as she stroked her daughter’s head. Gently. So lovingly.

“My beloved daughter. You will remember this day forever. You have found your craft, and you will be the first [Witch] of a new era. One of law. Of order. And you will be the greatest [Witch] of us all. This is my love for you, Wiskeria. This is what I can give you. I will be your craft. Stop me. Hunt me.”

Belavierr bent. She kissed her daughter on the forehead. Then she held Wiskeria’s face in her hands, turning it right and left, as if memorizing it. Belavierr’s hands tightened a second—and for a second, she seemed to hesitate, as if about to do something else. Twist? Then she let go.

“What a strange weakness you are, my daughter. I do not hate it. I have enjoyed being a mother. I will watch you grow and delight in your every stride. Until the day I die, we are mother and daughter, Wiskeria. Until the day I die.”

And then she turned and walked away. She looked back once at Wiskeria, waved, and then she was gone.





6.47 E


Day 71



The next day, Laken returned home.

He returned on a quiet day. The rains that had poured from the sky after the days of fire had flooded the barren ground. So much so that the banks of Riverfarm’s river were overflowing. The water was actually a danger to the landscape; it was eroding the soil, which wasn’t prepared for this much stored rain. There was a potential now for the fields of scorched plants to drown.

Another aspect of the Drakes’ plans, if they’d thought so far ahead. But the heavy downpour had stopped in the morning, leaving only intermittent showers.

Ryoka stood by Riverfarm’s entrance with the others. Waiting. They knew he was coming. So they waited. [Witches]. Villagers. Her, Charlay. Silently.

They could have been working. The fields were half-ruined by fire. Parts of Riverfarm had been evacuated due to the fire damage. There were a hundred things to do. But all the people of Riverfarm had done yesterday was cremate and bury the dead, or rather, what remained of those they’d found.

No one had the spirit for anything else. Even the [Witches] were silent. Their hats still dripped with rainwater. They were motionless.

Five of them. Hedag. Eloise. Mavika. Alevica. Wiskeria. The one missing was Nanette. But no one had forced her to come outside. After yesterday, after the revelation that it had been Califor who had stopped the fire at the cost of her life, she hadn’t moved. Belavierr had fled. And Nanette was…gone.

Broken. Ryoka didn’t want to think of it like that. But that was what it looked like. Someone had taken Nanette’s heart, had taken that smiling, cheerful little [Witch] and removed her happiness. Belavierr had killed Califor, had forced her to her death. And Califor had been Nanette’s mother. Her true mother, by blood as well as parenthood. And she was dead.

There wasn’t anything else to say. Ryoka couldn’t even cry. She hated herself. Hated herself for ever believing Belavierr was more than a monster. Hated herself for trying to give her a chance. And she hated the Drake who had died.

She didn’t even know his name. But he had engineered this pointless death, spread the fire that had taken so many lives. He had done it so casually, too. Without even knowing Riverfarm. He was an agent of a foreign power. And he had killed hundreds, perhaps thousands of people in this region for a war that few had taken part in.

Ryoka had never felt more like she was home than today. It was the same world, deep down. The same people, even if they wore different bodies. She hated it. But she couldn’t even be angry. So she stood there.

And there Laken came. Just before midmorning, the silence of the crowd was broken. A bright, blue bird took wing. She flew up, and Frostwing’s piercing scream made the people below start. The bird had sensed the grief in the air perhaps, but she was a simpler creature. And she had picked up on something before the others. She flew east, flapping her wings rapidly. Then she dove out of the skies, a blue bolt of feathers, shrieking.

On the ground, a Mossbear got up from where he had been napping besides Durene. Bismarck, his fur singed, looked up and roared. He lumbered forwards, people scattering around him. He raced after Frostwing, moving faster than Ryoka could remember seeing him. Ryoka stood taller, craning her neck with the others to see. It was Durene who exclaimed and pointed first.

Then Ryoka saw him. A distant figure riding slowly towards them, one of two on the road. He didn’t lead the way. He was following another man, who was guiding both his horse and the young man’s. But the [Emperor]’s head was craning, following Frostwing as she flew down towards him. He raised an arm, and she landed there, pecking and shrieking at him.

“Is that…?”

Eloise murmured. Durene ran forwards a few steps.

“It’s him.”

She was certain, even as far away as she was. Durene hesitated, then began to trot, then run. Prost watched her. And then he followed at a jog. Chimmy, Miss Yesel, and the rest of his family followed as well.

“It’s His Majesty!”

Jelov the [Carpenter] shouted, spraying people around him with spit. He crab-ran after the others. And then Riverfarm’s villagers were running, calling out his name. The others, who had never met Laken, watched. Startled. But then they followed, first at a quick walk, then faster. Ryoka ran past them. Charlay galloped on her right.

“Why are we running? Why are we running?”

Ryoka had no answer. But everyone in Riverfarm was racing towards him. And he sensed them. He dismounted from the horse as the other rider stopped. He jumped back, shouting, laughing, as Bismarck nearly knocked him flat. And he hugged the Mossbear. His head rose. And his closed eyes turned. He urged Frostwing onto Bismarck’s back. And he turned as Durene thundered at him.

“You—you—you’ve been gone so—”

Laken Godart stood there as Durene skidded to a stop in front of him. Ryoka was third, Charlay second. She looked at the [Emperor]. He stood in front of his horse. And he seemed larger than she remembered. He filled the air, for all he was shorter than both her and Durene. He turned his head, his eyes still closed. Towards Ryoka. But it was to Durene he turned back to.

“I know. My dear Durene. I know. I’m sorry.”

He walked towards her. The half-Troll girl hesitated. And she moved forwards timidly. The two stopped in front of each other awkwardly. Laken tilted his head up, as if to see her face. Durene hesitantly raised a hand.

They reached out. Laken straightened, and Durene’s head bent. And—she didn’t expect it, but he had intended it—they kissed there. Riverfarm’s folk stopped, panting. And waited. After a second, Laken turned towards them. The man on the horse slowly dismounted.

“Your Majesty.”

Mister Prost spoke slowly. Lady Rie panted as she caught up, having to push through the crowds. Laken turned his head. He didn’t speak at first. He just turned his head, his closed eyes passing over the faces in the crowd. Laken paused. And then he nodded.

“Mister Prost. My people. I’ve missed you so dearly. You and Riverfarm. I have been gone too long. At last, I have returned. Hear me. I am your [Emperor]. And I have come back.”

And he smiled slightly. Prost and the villagers of Riverfarm bowed their heads. Then they took a knee. In the muddy road. Lady Rie curtsied, ignoring the same muck. The people behind them hesitated. Lancrel’s folk, townsfolk, and villagers from further off wavered. But something compelled them. Perhaps it was the way he stood. Or the way he fit in this place. Like a missing part of the village. Perhaps it was only his class, but Ryoka felt it too.

Slowly, they knelt. Men, women, children. Only Ryoka remained standing. Ryoka, Charlay, who wavered and then locked her legs. And the [Witches]. The man behind Laken seemed disapproving. Laken himself just smiled.

“Thank you. You still find me worthy, then, Prost?”

“I have never doubted you for a moment, sire. Not since the day you found my family in the snow.”

Prost spoke, his head bowed. Laken nodded.

“Then I will answer that faith. Rise, my [Steward]. I am back. And though much grief has passed, I intend to begin mending my errors. Rise. And look: I did not return alone.”

He pointed. Ryoka saw, behind him, another procession travelling on foot. A few were mounted, but the majority of the [Engineers] and [Builders] walked. They too broke into a run when they saw the gathering. And one of the mounted men, Gamel, raced towards the crowd with Tessia riding behind him.

“Gamel! Tessia!”

“It’s the [Engineers]! They’ve all returned!”

Some of the villagers exclaimed excitedly. Laken nodded, and those who knew the people running towards them broke out of the crowd and met them. The delighted laughter and exclamations felt odd to Ryoka’s ears. Unfamiliar after so long without hearing them. But, oh, so welcome.

The young man on horseback, Gamel, dismounted. He bowed precisely towards Laken.

“Your Majesty.”

“Thank you, Gamel. Tessia, your parents are over that way.”

Laken pointed to his left. Tessia cried out and ran to an older couple fighting their way through the crowd. Gamel smiled. Laken turned his head.

“Do you have anyone you would like to see, Gamel?”

“No one not buried, Your Majesty. And they can wait. Your orders?”

The [Emperor] paused. And then he nodded.

“Very well, Gamel, with me. Mister Prost, Lady Rie, Durene, and Lord Yitton, would you all walk with me?”

Laken turned his head. And Ryoka saw him nod once towards her. But then he set off with the five people trailing after him. The crowd parted as Laken walked forwards. The [Emperor] turned his head.

“Lady Rie, a delight to hear your voice.”

“You flatter me, Your Majesty. Was your return uneventful?”

“Besides witnessing the devastation? Quite. However, my delayed return has given me time to assess the damage. We have much to do.”

“Yes, sire. Only—”

Prost hesitated. Laken turned towards him.

“Yes, Mister Prost?”

The [Steward] wavered. Their conversation was being followed by everyone present. And the moment of Laken’s arrival was passing. Ryoka could see the others appraising him. Waiting on his words. Prost raked a hand through his greying hair.

“I don’t know where to begin. The fire that…Drake caused didn’t damage Riverfarm much. But there was a [Witch].”

“Belavierr. Yes. I understand most of what transpired from Lady Rie’s [Message].”

Laken’s words caused a shudder to run through those around him. The [Emperor] paused. And he looked around.

“Mister Prost, I understand. Riverfarm has been through so much. But, surely you haven’t reached the limits of your stamina the moment I return? Or am I overestimating you [Farmers] and village folk?”

He smiled at the slight flush on Prost’s face. Laken shook his head, forestalling the man’s reply.

“I know. Yet, we have been through worse, Prost. I remember a village covered in snow. A time when we fought in the streets of Riverfarm. We have seen times just as dark. And each time, Riverfarm rebuilt itself. This time, mercifully, there is more left. And I will replace the rest piece by piece. But I can’t do it alone. May I lean on you for help?”

“Of course. Of course, Your Majesty.”

Prost’s voice cleared. And he looked around, assessing, a spark back in his eyes. Laken nodded.

“This is still a home. And it has weathered both ice and fire. And I am finally back. So, let us get to work! And then break open the stores and toast and mourn! Miss Yesel! Chimmy!”

He reached out, addressing the girl and woman in the crowd. Others gathered around. Laken turned, addressing people by their names. Smiling. Prost had to eventually shout for order and help Laken extricate himself from the crowd. Laughing, the [Emperor] continued onwards.

“Very well, Mister Prost. I see that Riverfarm’s folk are hale and hearty. But the village is quite a bit bigger than I remember. Will you introduce me to the newcomers?”

He turned and faced the other folk. They shifted, a bit disconcerted by the stare that was not a stare with Laken’s closed eyes. Prost nodded.

“These are folk from other towns and villages, Your Majesty. Some from small places like Fendele, others larger places like Tulntown. Most are from Lancrel, though.”

“Ah, yes. Lancrel.”

Laken murmured. A shadow crossed his brow. He nodded, turning his head to regard the crowd.

“I welcome you all. I regret that I was not here earlier. And I thank you for your efforts in building Riverfarm. I am Laken Godart. Riverfarm’s [Emperor]. I will meet with all of you in time and learn who each of you are. Today, though, we have work to do. Riverfarm has endured a great disaster. But it stands. And it will become greater still.”

Murmuring. The people watched Laken, some wary, others disbelieving. Many hopeful. Others, doubting because he was blind. But Laken was confident. He didn’t hesitate. He was turning back to Prost when a voice rang out.

“Excuse me! Excuse me! Make way!”

Ryoka, listening, winced as she saw a familiar face pushing through the crowd. And Councilwoman Beatica did have to push. Her metaphorical stocks were in the dumps after the disaster that had left her with some magically-healed burns and countless others dead in the river. But she still faced Laken, breathless.

“Pardon me. Your…Majesty.”

“Yes? Can I help you, Miss?”

Laken paused, turning back to Councilwoman Beatica with a bemused expression on his face. Surely he had to know who she was—but his brows rose. Lady Rie glared and urgently whispered in his ear, but the [Emperor] stepped forwards.

Everyone was watching this too. Councilwoman Beatica smoothed her dress, straightened, and spoke with every shred of authority she had. She smiled ingratiatingly—until it occurred to her that was pointless on Laken.

“I am Councilwoman Beatica, your—Your Majesty. And I am pleased to welcome you on behalf of—”

She got no further. Laken, with impeccable timing, raised his brows and exclaimed.

“A [Councilwoman]?”

He whirled, cutting off Beatica’s flow, and frowned at Lady Rie.

“I didn’t know Riverfarm had elected a council. Nor that my people were intending to replace my [Steward], Mister Prost. What is the meaning of this, Lady Rie?”

For a moment, the [Lady] looked as surprised as anyone else. Then she smiled.

“Your pardon, Emperor Godart, but I’m afraid you misheard Councilwoman Beatica. She was not referring to Riverfarm’s council.”

“Not referring to…?”

Laken’s frown made the smile on Beatica’s face waver. She licked her lips.

“I am of Lancrel, Your Majesty, but as I was saying—”

“Ah, Lancrel. Of course.”

Laken lightly tapped the heel of his palm on his forehead. He smiled and nodded. Then, suddenly, he focused on Councilwoman Beatica.

“This is Riverfarm, Miss Beatica. You are aware of that?”

The woman spluttered.

“Yes, but—”

The [Emperor] nodded happily. Then he walked right past her.

“I am delighted to meet you, Miss Beatica. However, I must attend to Riverfarm’s pressing needs at the moment. I look forwards to meeting you with the rest of my new subjects when time permits.”

“But—”

“If you have an issue, you may address it to one of my subordinates if they have time for you, Miss Beatica. However, your former station does not grant you any authority here. Lancrel’s folk are welcome here—as citizens of the Unseen Empire.”

Ryoka enjoyed seeing the woman’s face go slack. She opened her mouth, but Laken was already ignoring her. He addressed the rest of the crowd, who had seen Councilwoman Beatica’s power evaporate like, well, an idea.

“If you have come here, you are my people. No less regardless of whence you came, but no more than that either. Any of you might be a leader. And you will have chances to rise to the occasion. But right now, in this moment, my [Steward] is Mister Prost. Lady Rie is his counterpart. The man who stands next to me is Gamel, my aide and [Knight]. Lord Yitton Byres has come to visit Riverfarm. Durene is my consort and [Paladin]. And I will rely on each of them to manage Riverfarm. Now, let us begin.”

Laken clapped his hands, and the air was suddenly brisk. He strode back to Riverfarm, and the five adjutants followed him. And everyone else thereafter. Laken spoke briskly, turning his head to Mister Prost.

“There are three main issues that need attending to now. Firstly, the fires and aftermath. I sense no remaining embers after the rain. The sacrifice of the…[Witch] must have caused that.”

He paused and turned his head towards the five [Witches] watching him. Laken nodded and went on.

“However, there is much to do. Mister Prost, I am placing you in charge of the repair work. A number of buildings on the western and southern edges of Riverfarm are damaged. Begin pulling down any that can’t be repaired. Next, I want teams of sweepers removing all this ash and dust before we breathe it in. Wash it down the street with buckets if you have to.”

“At once, sire.”

Prost beamed. He looked ten years younger as Laken smiled. The [Emperor] nodded towards the distant river and the fields beyond it.

“Lastly, I want [Farmers] to begin replanting fields and every [Hunter] and [Archer] you can spare in another team. There’s a herd of deer—regular deer—who fled the fires. They’re north of us, about eight miles. Have wagons ready to bring back the carcasses.”

“Hunting, Your Majesty?”

Prost exclaimed, but in the next moment, he was nodding.

“Absolutely. It will be done, sire. Let me get—”

He began searching around, but Laken held up a hand.

“No need to deal with all of it yourself, Mister Prost. That does remind me. Before you set to work—excuse me, you, sir, and you, Miss, with the hammer in the belt. Step forwards please.”

Laken turned and unerringly pointed to two people in the crowd. There was a start, but the two he’d indicated came forwards slowly. Ryoka recognized both. Laken nodded to the man and the woman.

“Ram, isn’t it? And [Forewoman] Beycalt. I’ve heard of both of you.”

“You have? I mean, Your Majesty?”

Beycalt stammered. Ram looked delighted.

“You remember me, Emperor Laken?”

“I do indeed. Ram from Windrest. How could I forget? And you, Miss Beycalt, I’ve heard good things of. Both of you.”

Both man and woman bowed their heads, flushing. Laken went on, speaking in a loud, carrying voice as he turned back to Mister Prost.

“Mister Prost, you’ve done a splendid job as [Steward], as has Lady Rie. But no man or woman can handle an entire village alone, let alone one of Riverfarm’s size. Thus, I am naming Mister Ram my [Head Farmer] and Forewoman Beycalt my [Construction Supervisor]. Both will be in charge of their respective fields and have the authority to issue orders and promote people below them to jobs such as [Foreman]. Or [Forewoman].”

“Promoted?”

Ram exclaimed. Beycalt’s eyes bulged.

“[Supervisor]?”

“Of course. A [Forewoman] can’t handle Riverfarm’s construction, can she? Nor can Mister Prost manage everything himself. You’ve both held your positions of authority under him. I am simply confirming it. With a class change. Let me know if you don’t level up.”

Laken turned, smiling slightly. Then his voice sharpened again.

“Mister Prost, Supervisor Beycalt, Headman Ram, please take whomever you need! Mister Prost will confer with you.”

The [Steward] nodded and, beaming, clapped Ram on the shoulder. The former [Rancher] pointed at Laken. So did Beycalt.

“But he just—a [Supervisor]?”

“To work, Beycalt! And you, Ram! It’s nothing you can’t handle, or His Majesty wouldn’t have chosen you. All you have to do is pick folks you know can do the job. Just like before. Beycalt, you know who can swing a hammer! We’ll start with the edges first, and Ram, how many hands do you need to replant and expand?”

“Well—”

The confused expression faded from both their faces. They glanced back at Laken, and he nodded. He looked sideways and addressed the young man walking beside him.

“Gamel. Please introduce Tessia and our [Engineers] to Supervisor Beycalt. They’ll be helpful in setting up those houses. And get me a big piece of parchment as well. Riverfarm’s layout is good, but I want to update it. I’ll need—”

“Drawing charcoal, sire; I will have it in a minute. [Engineers], with me!”

Gamel’s call stirred the crowd. He turned and marched back towards Tessia and the others. And then Prost, Ram, and Beycalt were calling names, and men and women, realizing they’d be called on, were halting. Meanwhile, the procession was continuing, heading into the village. Laken was glancing up at the sky, or rather, tilting his head up since he didn’t need to see.

“I feel like I’m going to be hit in the head with a raindrop any second. Let’s get ready for rain. And get some food ready! Have people had a filling meal, Lady Rie?”

“Some food, yes, Emperor Godart. I wouldn’t call it filling.”

“Then let’s have a rolling lunch. [Cooks] to their stations! We have a number of cookhouses now, don’t we? We’ll run food out to the [Farmers], if it’s not pouring. But that’s a smaller task. Now—the second issue. Beniar! Why are you hanging back there?”

He waved at the crowd. At his words, the armored [Cataphract] pushed his way forwards, beaming.

“Your Majesty! I didn’t want to presume!”

“And here I was expecting you to ride me down and hug me in that uncomfortable armor. Get over here! You’re needed! The Darksky Riders have been Riverfarm’s shield and sword—I’m going to have to expand your ranks as well as honor the lot of you!”

There was a whoop from behind Beniar. He strode forwards as Laken turned, taking the course around the village. He gestured at Lady Rie and Beniar next. Ryoka, hurrying to watch him, saw Lord Yitton watching with approval and fascination—Durene with pride.

“Lady Rie. I count seventeen groups on the road. Find me a map and take Beniar and his Darksky Riders. Once I’ve located them for you, send the [Riders] to them and invite them to join Riverfarm. Few villages remain standing. Two towns were half-destroyed. Send the [Riders] to those towns as well.”

“So many?”

Lady Rie looked worried. Laken’s face sobered.

“Yes. And too many were caught by the fire. But those who did make it are by and large homeless. I intend to do what Ryoka did and offer them Riverfarm’s security.”

He nodded in Ryoka’s direction. The City Runner jumped as every head swung towards her for a moment. That was another thing. In Invrisil, Laken had just been…blind. But here, it was like he had eyes in the back of his head as well as everywhere else! It was adding to the impression he made as he spoke. Lady Rie frowned.

“What if they decline, Your Majesty?”

Laken shook his head.

“It is an offer they may refuse. Riverfarm can feed and house them, but it is a choice, Lady Rie. Which is why we need to bring in food now. Which reminds me…”

He snapped his fingers, vexed. Then he turned as Gamel hurried back towards him.

“Gamel! I also have a list of bodies of water with fish in them! Anyone who knows how to fish will need to be transported to and from those spots—but not overharvest any one location! Get me two maps, one for Lady Rie, another for Prost! And that parchment!”

“Yes, Your Majesty—”

Laken turned back to Lady Rie, nodding.

“Food, as I said. And if the groups do agree to enter Riverfarm, they must be found places to sleep, heads counted, and lists of their classes and useful Skills accounted for. Negotiations are in order as well; we will need to work with every town and city nearby to repair so much damage. Lady Rie, I am entrusting that role to you and whomever you would like to appoint. Perhaps you have a list of some of our more diplomatic members of Riverfarm?”

Lady Rie inhaled. And somewhere in the crowd, Beatica looked up eagerly. Laken’s smile was all too knowing.

“We may need managers to distribute goods, Lady Rie. To coordinate cooking, supplies—any number of roles! I will entrust their appointment to you, Lady Rie. They are under your authority, of course. Send whomever you please on horseback at once. And while you’re at it, about fifty-eight totems have been burned. Jelov will need to replace them.”

The [Lady] could not have looked more pleased if Laken had told her she could hit Beatica with a broom. Her head turned, and the [Councilwoman] paled as Lady Rie smiled ghoulishly at her. Ryoka guessed that the most distant city or town would soon be getting a newly-appointed diplomat visiting them. Probably riding the most ill-tempered mule Rie could find. The [Lady] curtseyed.

“At once, Your Majesty. I will see to everything that needs doing. And confer with you as to the location of these groups in…thirty minutes? Very good, Your Majesty. Oh, Miss Yesel? A word, if you would. And you too, Mister Tharei. I suppose you as well, Miss Beatica. Come along now!”

She strode off, taking more people with her. That was the trick to it, Ryoka realized. Laken was still moving. He hadn’t even paused when Rie took her leave. He was speaking to Jelov next. The [Carpenter] had somehow managed to get between Durene and Yitton and was now beam-spitting at Laken.

“Your Majesty, so glad to see you! Knew you’d be back, and hope you whooped those Goblins a second arse! You need new totems? Of course! They burned, didn’t they? Fire does that, ‘least, if we carve it of plain wood. We could make some out of fireproof stuff, but that costs the earth and’s hard to work, so it is! But you need more? Can do! Me and a few of the other, heh, [Carpenters]’ll be glad to do it! Of course, I’d be glad to lead them…”

He waggled his eyebrows in a way that made Ryoka vaguely nauseated, but Laken’s lack of sight meant he didn’t even pause. He smiled and patted Jelov on the shoulder as he wiped his face with a sleeve.

“Good work, Jelov. But I haven’t decided on a [Royal Carpenter] yet. I’d prefer you, of course, but I understand Prost’s had words with you about selling trinkets. Please do something about the coins in the floorboard under your bed. It’s distracting me. Now, onto the third issue at hand.”

As the [Carpenter] choked on his own tongue, Laken turned to face the group still following him. More and more people were being called away, but a great number still watched Laken. Among them were the [Witches], who had made their way to the front. As well as Ryoka and Charlay. The Centauress was tugging on Ryoka’s arm.

“That’s Riverfarm’s [Emperor]! But he’s blind! And he can see everything? Is it a Skill! He’s pretty cool! Hey, you know him, Ryoka?”

“The last issue. Shut up, Charlay.”

Ryoka muttered back. She watched as the [Witches] straightened expectantly. Laken paused. Then he walked right past the [Witches] and stopped in front of Charlay and Ryoka. He looked up at them as all five [Witches] turned, seeming peeved under their pointed hats. Laken nodded absently.

“The third task is Gralton. But first—Ryoka Griffin. It’s been a while.”

“Hi, Laken.”

Ryoka didn’t know whether to smile or frown at Laken. Since it wouldn’t matter, she did neither. Laken paused. The two stood together, unsaid words spilling in the air. Laken nodded.

“I owe you a debt, Ryoka. And we have much to discuss. But later.”

“Right.”

“We are here as well, [Emperor] of men. Do not ignore us.”

A voice spoke menacingly from behind Laken. He paused, then turned around. The [Witch] who had spoken, Mavika, received a blank not-a-stare.

“That was hardly my intention, Miss [Witch]. Ryoka Griffin is a friend of the throne. And you, my guests of whom I have heard so much. I greet you and hope the hospitality you have been offered has suited you. To whom am I speaking?”

It was well done. Mavika paused. And it was Eloise who replied with a curtsey as formal as Lady Rie’s.

“Your Majesty, Emperor Godart. I am Witch Eloise, and this is Witch Mavika. We are [Witches] who have come to request an audience on behalf of the [Witches] of Izril. We five are part of a coven, and we ask that you hear our petition when time may allow. We formally greet you and thank you for your hospitality—as well as forbearance for any incidents our number may have caused you during our stay.”

She tipped her hat and stepped on Mavika’s foot while elbowing Hedag. The other [Witches] bowed or nodded. Mavika just glared before jerking her head. Laken tilted his head in reply.

“I greet you, [Witches] of Riverfarm’s Coven. I am aware of the great debt I owe you and the [Witch] known as Miss Califor especially. Your actions have saved Riverfarm, and I will not forget that.”

The other [Witches] nodded approvingly. Laken went on with a slight frown.

“However, I understand that one of your number has brought death and strife to Riverfarm. She has slain a [Knight] and [Hunters] from Terandria’s guild on my lands, taken the life out of one of my subjects and—coerced others to their deaths. Tell me. Do you claim the Stitch Witch, Belavierr, as one of your own?”

The question went straight back towards Mavika. All the [Witches], Ryoka, and everyone else, paused to hear her response. Mavika bared her teeth.

“No. She has taken the life of one of her fellow [Witches] without cause. This coven has found her wanting. She is welcome among neither [Witches] nor men.”

“Very well. In that case, I bid you all welcome. Avail yourselves of my hospitality until we have the opportunity to meet. But as I mentioned, it is Lord Gralton that needs must attend to. Yitton, have we heard anything more from him?”

The man that had been accompanying Laken stepped forwards. Ryoka saw an older man’s face, lined and stern, but quite well-kept. European, like the landed nobility of Izril’s Human population, turning grey from dark blond. It was also somewhat familiar. Ryoka narrowed her eyes. Wait did Laken say Byres earlier?

Yitton nodded.

“Nothing yet, Your Majesty.”

“Then it’s safe to say Gralton’s situation is unchanged. And he is in need.”

“Who’s Gralton, Laken?”

Durene whispered and then turned red when everyone stared at her. Laken patted her arm reassuringly.

“Gralton is one of two [Lords] who accompanied me back, Durene. Remember, I wrote of them?”

“Oh, right. Where is he?”

“In his estates. Which is the problem. His lands were hit by a mysterious plague around the same time as Riverfarm was.”

“Drakes.”

Someone cursed. Laken nodded gravely.

“Exactly. But his ailment was sickness. It’s in his kennels. He’s falling apart over it. Which brings me to my issue.”

He turned back to the coven, who were all watching him like hawks save for Mavika, who had a crowish glare. Laken nodded.

“Ladies, [Witches], first, how may I address you?”

Hedag laughed. She leaned on her axe, speaking at Laken from under her wide, brown hat.

“Call us [Witches], you who call yourself [Emperor]. For that is what we are. And you.”

Laken nodded, turning his head left and right as if to catch Hedag’s voice and memorize it. He paused, then went on.

“Very well. [Witches], I have a request for you as [Emperor] of Riverfarm and the Unseen Empire. At this moment, a friend of mine, a [Lord], is struck by disaster. The same Drakes who set fire to Riverfarm have engineered a plague in his lands. Or perhaps it is poison, a combination of both. As we speak, his dogs and people lie dying. Gralton’s [Healers] are stymied by the sickness. But [Witches] might have better luck. Have any of you the craft to heal Gralton’s sick?”

The request caught the entire coven off-guard. Ryoka saw them exchange glances, and then all turned to stare at Eloise. The tea [Witch] pursed her lips and answered after a moment.

“I may. It is a sudden request, Your Majesty. But—several of us know the craft of poison or remedies thereof to some extent. Are you requesting us to come to this Lord Gralton’s aid?”

“If I asked it, would you agree? I would consider it a boon that would not go unrewarded.”

The coven paused. Mavika glared and replied waspishly.

“A boon to be repaid with words or deeds, [Emperor] of men? If you would seek to ask for our deeds, do you have aught to offer or do you simply make a request?”

Laken raised an eyebrow.

“Witch Mavika, is it? I poorly phrased my statement. Of course, I offer payment for services rendered. But the question I wished to ask was whether you would consider doing it at all.”

“That depends on the offer.”

“Mavika!”

Eloise hissed. Mavika ignored her. Laken smiled, though. It almost seemed like he was enjoying himself. But his tone was courteous as he nodded.

“Of course. Then, to cure Gralton’s lands, I offer you coin and an [Emperor]’s gratitude. Witch Eloise, do you desire gold?”

“It is always welcome, Your Majesty.”

The [Witch] replied smoothly. Laken nodded thoughtfully.

“In that case—four hundred gold coins to each [Witch] who has the skill to heal Gralton’s ill.”

“I’ll do it!”

Alevica’s hand shot up before Laken had finished speaking. All the coven looked at her. Alevica was still pale, but the light of avarice had given her new energy. Eloise hesitated.

“I as well. As a favor to both His Majesty and for those in need. We shall set out at once, then. We may require horses. I may, at any rate, if Alevica is well enough to fly.”

“Excellent. I will provide you with directions and transport. Are there any among you who can cure poisons? Wiskeria?”

The [Witch] hesitated and then shook her head.

“Not me, Laken. I can do some, but Eloise and Alevica can do far more than I can. But maybe…”

She glanced at Hedag. The [Executioner] shook her head.

“Not I. And little Nanette—no. But Mavika might.”

Everyone regarded Mavika. The crow [Witch] folded her arms. Some of her crows were circling overhead, cawing. Frostwing flew through them, screaming, and they scattered.

“I have knowledge of poison and ills. But gold does not motivate this [Witch]’s will.”

She sounded like she was just being stubborn, if the look on Eloise’s face was anything to go by. But Laken was equal to the challenge. He bowed, very politely, which surprised Ryoka until she remembered. German folklore meant he was probably aware of the dangers of insulting as much as she. Or he just understood what Mavika was like.

“Witch Mavika, if gold does not suit you, what about food? Four gold coin’s worth of food for your flocks, whenever you ask it. Meat or grain. So long, of course, as you do all in your power to come to Gralton’s aide.”

In fact, he really understood her. Laken must have memorized the descriptions of each [Witch]. Mavika blinked. And the crow perched on a roof overhead cawed hungrily. She wavered, then nodded grudgingly.

“Done.”

“Excellent. Then I, Laken Godart, do swear to pay your price due if you swear to work to your utmost within the spirit of your vow and reason to bring aid to Gralton’s land.”

Laken held out his hand, and Mavika shook it. He turned, nodding, and looked at the young man hurrying up towards him with his arms full.

“We may need to borrow a house. The throne room doesn’t have tables, as I recall, Gamel. Lady Rie is that way—we’ll convene with her. I require a larger map to show these [Witches] where Gralton’s lands are.”

“I will see to it at once, sire!”

Gamel wheezed. Laken led the way towards Lady Rie’s house as Gamel hurried inside. The [Emperor] was muttering to Yitton, and Ryoka edged forwards with Charlay to listen.

“Yitton, tell Gralton he’s going to have to put up the gold when they arrive. Eight hundred pieces. I think he’ll call that cheap for his dogs, don’t you?”

“I do indeed.”

Then the two City Runners jumped as Laken turned to them. Laken was smiling again.

“Ryoka, would you introduce me to your friend? Dustrider Charlay, I presume?”

He paused as Charlay drew up, suddenly nervous.

“I—that’s right! You know my nickname?”

Charlay was thunderstruck. Laken charming.

“Of course. Dustrider Charlay, I must thank you for aiding Ryoka as well as coming to Riverfarm’s aid in its time of crisis. I will not forget it, but at this moment, I have a request. Tell me, would you consent to a delivery? I would like to send a [Witch] straight to Lord Gralton’s lands. And a letter, from me, explaining the situation.”

The Centauress seemed pleased, then alarmed.

“I can do it! But—wait a second. I have to carry someone? On my back?”

He only smiled. Ryoka nearly did. But she was watching him. Hesitating. At last, Charlay nodded.

“Well—if it’s Eloise, sure! If it’s Alevica, forget about it!”

“Up yours, horse. I can fly!”

Laken ignored Alevica. He nodded.

“In that case, I would prevail on you to transport Witch Eloise and a letter. For a delivery fee of…twenty-five gold pieces?”

Charlay hesitated. Ryoka nearly whistled, but in the face of the price he’d offered the two [Witches], it wasn’t that much. It was good for a delivery that would probably be safe, just fast, but…Charlay gave Ryoka a side-long glance.

“Well…I could definitely do it. If I, uh, was paid a bit more? You’re paying the [Witches] um…twelve times what you’re paying me!”

“Sixteen, Charlay.”

“Sixteen!”

She looked hopeful as her tail swished back and forth. Laken frowned.

“Can you cure an entire province of poisoned dogs?”

“No…but I can run really fast.”

Charlay pouted. Laken paused.

“The distance is three days for someone on horseback without Skills. If you can make it in two, I’ll triple your fee.”

“Alright! In that case, get on, Eloise! I’ll get you to this Gralton’s place in no time! Which way!”

Charlay reared, and Laken dodged back, looking vaguely alarmed. He turned his head towards Ryoka and made a bemused face. Then Lady Rie was hurrying out with a map. The [Witches] crowded around. Mavika nodded.

“My flock and I can make the journey in two days as well. One, if the winds fly behind us.”

“I can make it in two days. Probably.”

Alevica gritted her teeth, poking her stomach. Laken glanced around.

“Do so at all speed, please. Time is of the essence. Gralton’s dogs aren’t all dead, but many are dying by the hour. As are his people, to a lesser extent. I will send him a [Message] informing him you are arriving. He will give you all the aid you require. However, do you need anything prepared in advance?”

The [Witches] conferred briefly. Mavika looked up.

“If it is plague, Feverwort. If it is poison—easier. Eloise’s teas purge the body. I have other ways. Sage’s Grass if it is poison. Sage’s Grass, pure charcoal, and the venoms of many creatures. Preferably the Drake who spat poison if it lives.”

“I’m told Gralton’s surviving dogs ripped it apart. But I’ll send a [Message] at once. Nesor!”

Laken called, and the young man standing at the table behind him jumped. Ryoka watched as Laken conferred, began working on a map with Lady Rie—and then Mister Prost entered the room to receive his own copy of a map with fishing spots. Ryoka’s hermit-fisher friend was one of the people he sent to collect the bounty. And Ryoka—just watched.

He needed Prost, Rie, and the others. Laken had a plan, one borne of time on the road and his [Emperor]’s sight, but he needed people he could trust to implement his plans. What he had was an edge—the ability to see where animals were, or fish, pinpoint people exactly—and that was a huge advantage. But what he was really giving the people of Riverfarm was purpose. Prost had tried, but he wasn’t a leader in that way. Laken was. He had a vision, and the moment he’d returned, Riverfarm had begun moving and shaping itself around that vision.

In a way, he was like a [Witch]. But one who had made an empire his craft. And Ryoka saw, evaluated, and compared it to the Laken she had met in Invrisil and the one she had heard about who had led Goblins to a siege at Liscor. This third Laken and the other two mixed and mingled. And she thought until Durene burst through the doors with a panicked shout.

“Laken! There’s a caravan coming this way! A lot of wagons with bars! They’re filled with Goblins.”

Everyone in the room froze. And Ryoka glanced up. Laken calmly raised his head.

“Yes. Yes they are. I told you I was bringing them back.”

“But—they’re coming here! Into the village!”

Laken paused. He frowned.

“That could be dangerous. I agree. Durene, with me. Prost, Rie, I won’t be long.”

He strode out of the room. Ryoka followed, her heart beating faster. Goblins? Could one of them be…?

The wagons were huge and packed with Goblins. It was a huge procession of them! Dozens of wagons, all with bars, lurching slowly towards Riverfarm. The people had seen them and were crying out in shock. Laken walked towards the caravan, which had an escort of…it had to be at least a hundred [Guards]. Perhaps three times that many Goblins, or more.

Ryoka felt sick watching them crammed together, staring out. Durene just shuddered with hatred, but Ryoka was scanning each face for a familiar Goblin. She didn’t see Rags. And she could sense the hostility behind her.

“Everyone, back to your work! Emperor Laken has this in hand! Back to work, I say!”

Prost had followed Laken outside. He stood with the [Emperor], and Ryoka distinctly heard him and Laken exchanging some words.

“…will find a place later. [Guards], yes, but not one is to be—”

Laken broke off and raised a hand. A relieved-looking man was riding towards him, a sword at his side. Laken called out.

“[Caravan Master] Dintal! Thank you for your tireless work. I will commend your name to the Merchant’s Guild and issue you and your men a bonus for your efforts.”

“It’s a relief to be here, Your Majesty! Where do you want these Goblins?”

The man called out, pulling to a stop before Laken. The [Emperor] smiled thinly, clearly aware of the stares he was getting.

“I have a spot picked out, Dintal. However, I have one last task for you. Move the caravan south along the river. Until I give you the word, guard the Goblins. Anyone, and I mean anyone, who attacks them, you will stop. Without killing, preferably. But if any Goblin dies, I will regretfully withhold both your bonus and commendation. Thank you.”

And with that, Laken turned his back and kept speaking to Mister Prost. Dintal stared, but then he looked resigned. Ryoka saw him turn and whistle.

“You heard Emperor Godart! Move the Goblins! And stay clear of the wagons, everyone! These bastards’ll throw their shit at you! Throw a stone and don’t be surprised if they throw it back! Come on, move it!”

The caravan moved, turning down the road. Ryoka saw the exclamations and fear and hatred on the people’s faces—but she was more curious about the resigned expressions on the faces of the [Guards]. Not malice. And the Goblins just stared. They were watching Laken, looking around. Not with hostility, necessarily. But a keen intelligence. And Laken was watching them.

“I’ll have Gamel instruct Dintal. And I’ll need some of Beniar’s people and folk you can trust watching the wagons, Prost. No—I’ll make Dintal’s men stay another night. I’ll have to pay them well, too. But keep Riverfarm’s folk moving, and they won’t be able to interfere until I settle matters with the Goblins.”

“Yes, Your Majesty.”

Prost didn’t seem happy as he kept staring at the wagons, but he did obey. That was a sign of loyalty alright. But Ryoka just stared at Laken. His head was still following the Goblin carts. And he eventually looked back at her. Laken didn’t smile this time. He just looked weary.

“Part of the road home, Ryoka. And there’s no road to redemption or forgiveness. But I have to do this.”

She didn’t reply. After a moment, Laken nodded back towards Riverfarm.

“Back to work. The Goblins will have to wait. They’ve waited for over two months; I’ll subject them to another day.”

He walked back towards the village. Ryoka saw him enter Lady Rie’s house, but she didn’t follow him. The City Runner glanced around.

Riverfarm was in full bustle. And the three [Witches] had already left, along with Charlay. Only Wiskeria and Hedag remained. The [Executioner] was leaning on her axe, her eyes alight with interest as she watched people moving with a renewed sense of purpose.

“Some [Emperor] this is. I’d heard stories, and I’ve met a [King], but this is a man like few others! Is it his class that does it, or him?”

She laughed. Ryoka would have liked to know that too. Wiskeria shook her head. She seemed relieved. Relieved and still heartbroken.

“He’s back. Finally.”

She made no move to follow Laken. Nor had he called for her among his advisors. But it was Hedag who pushed Wiskeria gently towards the house. She looked at the older [Witch].

“But I—”

“You’re the one who stayed here and forced us to come to you, Wiskeria-Girl. Go and do what you must. I’ll stay with Nanette.”

The [Witches] exchanged a glance. And then Wiskeria nodded, squared her shoulders, and walked into Lady Rie’s house. Ryoka regarded Hedag. And the [Executioner] grinned.

“And where do you fit into this village now, Ryoka-Girl?”

The City runner searched around. She looked at the hopeful faces, at the scorched land, at Hedag, and listened for Laken’s voice. Then she shook her head.

“Nowhere.”

Hedag laughed. She slapped Ryoka on the back.

“You’d have made a fine [Witch], girl. A fine [Witch].”



—–



Night fell. Laken Godart worked into it. Riverfarm had so much that needed doing, and he was finally back. He only stopped when Lady Rie and Mister Prost both stopped taking his orders. Then Laken realized he was exhausted and needed some sleep.

“There’s always tomorrow. I’ll sleep, I’ll sleep, Prost! Don’t threaten me with Yesel.”

Laken yawned. He looked around, intending to tell Gamel to prepare a bed. And then he stopped. Slowly, his head turned.

“Oh. I’m back, aren’t I?”

It was alone that Laken came to Durene’s cottage. Well, not alone; Gamel had walked him the entire way there, and the [Knight] was hovering by the gates. Laken had to throw rocks in his vague direction until the young man finally left him. And then Laken took a few minutes before he knocked on the door.

He didn’t know why he did that. Frostwing was already screeching inside, and Laken was pushing Bismarck’s head away from licking him when Durene opened the door. The [Paladin] stared at Laken. He stared back.

“It’s good to see you, Durene. May I…come in?”

“Oh. Sure. I mean, we saw each other just—”

“Yeah.”

“…Come in! Of course! It’s your…”

Laken walked inside. The house wasn’t exactly like he remembered, but he’d known that as soon as he focused on it. Durene was sleeping in the kitchen, and someone had occupied her bed. It was messier with more work needed on the roof and some unwashed dishes on the counter—Frostwing’s nest was bigger, and Bismarck had made his own den around back—but it was familiar.

And not. So was Durene. Laken awkwardly stood with her for a bit before they sat down at the kitchen table. Neither one knew where to begin, and when they did—

“You brought Goblins back. And you took months doing it.”

“I had to, Durene. I explained it. Goblins are people—”

“Hah!”

“I thought you of all people would understand.”

“What’s that supposed to mean?”

“Durene, you’re half Troll. Goblins are—”

“Trolls aren’t the same as Goblins!”

“No. But they’re both considered monsters. And neither are. Durene, Goblins—”

“Killed my friends! They killed the army, and they burned and killed and hurt a bunch of people! You were there, Laken! Remember fighting them at Riverfarm?”

“I’d never forget. But—”

“But what? But what?”

“Listen to me! But they’re not all alike! Or are all Humans alike?”

“They’re evil. All of ‘em.”

“How can you say that?”

“How can you say there are good ones? Has anyone ever met a good Goblin? No one has!”

“Maybe because no one’s given them a chance. How many good Trolls can you name?”

“Don’t you dare—”

“If I let them die, the army would have hacked them to pieces. Goblins who’d surrendered. Goblins who couldn’t fight. Children.”

“…”

“Don’t give me that look.”

“I’m not giving you any look. You can’t even see it.”

“I can tell you’re giving me a look, Durene. I have an [Emperor]’s senses.”

“Well, why didn’t you sense how I felt about this!”

“Because it’s not about you, Durene.”

“How is it not about me when the Goblins killed my friends?”

“I—I’m sorry. You’re right, it affects you. But Durene—those Goblins are people. And if I killed them, or let them die, knowing what I do now, I’d never forgive myself. And I wouldn’t be an [Emperor]. Or at least, not one you’d like.”

“…”

“The Goblins stay, Durene. And they’ll be protected, given the same rights as anyone else. If they kill someone, they’ll be punished. If they steal, they’ll be punished. And if someone kills a Goblin, I will treat them like a murderer.”

“No one’s going to like it. And I bet you anything that people like Ram’ll go after the Goblins. If they don’t attack us in our sleep. Are you at least watching them?”

“I have a guard on them now. To protect them from Humans, among other things. It doesn’t matter if you don’t like them, Durene. In fact, it’s fine that way. I’ve got a plan. It may work. But it doesn’t matter if people hate the Goblins’ guts. I will show them…”

Laken trailed off. Their first fight hadn’t been the worst. No one had broken anything. But Laken was more upset by this than anything else today. He stroked Frostwing’s head as the bird huddled in his lap. He could tell Durene was looking at him. At last, she burst out with it. The Goblins were only part.

“What happened? Laken, what happened when you left? Why was it so long? Why did…what happened?”

And he had no answer for that. He had a plan, an answer for everything else. But not that. Laken hung his head and shook it slowly.

“I made a huge mistake, Durene. And everything—all of this—is a result of it. I made a mistake. I’m so sorry it took me so long to return home.”

She didn’t reply. After a while, she got up and sat beside him. Laken turned his head. He could feel Durene there. But she didn’t embrace him. They just sat together. After a while, Durene wiped at her eyes.

“I thought it would be easier when you came back. I waited and waited.”

“I’m sorry.”

He reached for her hand. Durene pulled it away.

“Ryoka had to tell me you’re not perfect. That you make mistakes. I had to…I need to be a [Paladin], Laken. Or I need you to take it away. I can’t be half of it, though. I want to fight. And if you’re wrong about Goblins, maybe you were wrong about me.”

“I’m not.”

Laken whispered, but the half-Troll girl didn’t respond. So they sat there. Familiar strangers sitting together in the cottage. Until the door opened.

Laken started. He heard a gasp, then Ryoka’s voice.

“I’ll just, uh, sleep outside. In the village, actually.”

“Ryoka? Oh—”

The [Emperor] belatedly remembered the two other cots. Durene stood up hastily.

“Ryoka—”

“No, no! Go back to whatever you were doing!”

“We weren’t—”

The two began, but Ryoka had already shut the door. Laken could hear her retreating, then a distant voice.

“Hey, Wiskeria! You don’t want to go in there—”

Laken and Durene sat in silence after that. They paused, and then one of them began laughing, and the other joined in. Somehow, that had helped. In the end, they sat on Durene’s bed. She listened as he told her of what had passed, of what he had done. Trying to explain, or maybe justify. And then it was her turn.

“So much happened after I woke up. I can’t even explain…”

“Tell me. Tell me from the start. From the fever.”

And she did. Laken sat, listening to that familiar voice, willing himself not to interject too much, to listen. To understand. Durene sat there, so close it hurt. After a while, he found himself holding her hand. And she looked at him and tried to remember if it had felt like that before he’d left. They slept apart that night. Somehow…it just ended up that way.



[Emperor Level 20!]

[Skill – Group: Surge of Inspiration obtained!]

[Skill – Empire: Fields of Bounty obtained!]





Day 72



Ryoka saw Laken’s new Skills the next day. The [Emperor] was up at dawn, raring to get to work. And Riverfarm was up with him. She caught him using the Skill on a group of [Woodcutters] who’d volunteered to see what the Skill was about.

“[Surge of Inspiration].”

The group jumped as one and then patted their bodies and each other, laughing. One of them raised his axe and uttered a loud yell.

“Dead gods, but I feel awake! I could chop down half a forest myself!”

“Well, it’s just burnt roots and stumps! Come on, let’s get to work! Your Majesty, that’s one Skill I wouldn’t mind you using on us every day! We’ll let you know how long it lasts!”

The leader laughed as he hefted the axe. The group moved off, practically jogging. Laken looked bemused.

“The instant I got back, I leveled up. It’s probably the world’s way of telling me I should never have left. And that Skill! That would have been so useful on the ride back. And the [Fields of Bounty] will allow me to feed all the people coming here.”

He nodded to Ram. The [Head Farmer] was practically bursting with delight, both from his new class that had replaced his [Rancher] class—it was apparently an upgrade—and Laken’s Skills. He indicated the fields, which were being expanded again, as he spoke to Laken.

“I reckon I can see some of the crops growing, Sire! What with all the Skills us [Farmers] have plus yours—even the grown plants look twice as good as they did yesterday! What do you think, Miss Griffin?”

Ryoka paused. She’d been offered some of the newest crop—corn—and was chewing on it. She gulped and nodded.

“Nice corn. Almost as good as Farmer Lupp’s. Well, half as good.”

Ram seemed insulted. Laken just smiled.

“I’m sure that’s a compliment, Mister Ram. Or maybe encouragement. Keep up the good work! I need to attend to the Goblin situation and the refugees coming in. You’ll be fine?”

“Oh, uh, yes, Your Majesty! I won’t let you down! Me and the [Farmers]’ll have your storehouses bursting in no time! Just so long as those filthy Goblins don’t slit our throats! But you have a plan for that! We’ll use them as monster bait or workers, right? Something only an [Emperor]’d think up!”

“Something like…well, nothing like that. But you’ll see, Mister Ram. Don’t worry about the Goblins. And keep people from thinking about going after them.”

Laken waved Ram off. Then he turned to Ryoka. Gamel was already waiting with a small horde of people who wanted Laken’s attention.

“Ryoka, I know I promised to talk, but I’m still in the middle of a thousand minor crises. Can you wait? I could use your help with Lady Rie and sending messages if you need something to do.”

Ryoka looked up, startled, and then shook her head.

“What? No. I’m fine. I’m just going to…sit here. If that’s alright.”

“Of course.”

Laken nodded and vanished into a crowd. Ryoka barely noticed him go. Then she stood up and went to a house on the edge of Riverfarm. More houses were being built, of course, and other buildings too. Laken was creating more than just houses and remodeling some that could become storefronts, other buildings. Even inns.

But the house Ryoka stopped at was just a house. Quiet. So quiet it hurt. And inside were two [Witches]. One was Hedag. The other was Nanette.

“Hey.”

“Miss Runner-Girl. Miss Ryoka Griffin. How do you feel?”

Hedag greeted Ryoka. The City Runner paused, then realized Hedag was indicating her slightly tender-footed gait. Ryoka shrugged.

“No calluses. I burned my feet off on that run. I still smell smoke.”

“Ah, when you led a tornado made of flame. You never said how you did it.”

Hedag’s eyes glinted as she sat next to Nanette. The [Witch] girl was sitting on the ground. Just sitting there, her expression distant. She wasn’t crying. She wasn’t…Ryoka forced herself to answer Hedag.

“How’d I know it would follow me? I didn’t. It’s the wind. It didn’t like being held. And tornados—well, I was pretty sure that it would move after me if I gave it a headwind. I mean, I know that sounds dodgy, but I had help. Califor gave me some tips.”

Califor. No one was invoking her name, but Ryoka felt she had to. The girl felt a lump in her throat. Yet Hedag’s cheerful voice made Ryoka flinch.

“Ah, if she did, then you had better odds than not. Well, however it was done, you have a Hedag’s thanks. And a village’s no doubt. Even Califor would have struggled to end that whirlwind and the rest of the fire. Perhaps she might have failed. And then, what a waste, eh?”

And Califor’s name made her look at Nanette. The girl had stirred once in reply to the name. But Hedag didn’t seem guilty at saying it out loud. The [Executioner] was tender as she combed Nanette’s hair. But she had made the girl eat and drink this morning when she’d refused to. In her way, Hedag was crueler than Mavika. She refused to let Nanette alone.

“I’m sorry. I never should have trusted her.”

That was all Ryoka could say to Nanette. She sat down, looking and not looking at the girl. Hedag watched the two as Ryoka sat there, hating herself more than any other day in her life.

Nanette didn’t respond. She lay there, motionless. Like a doll with its strings cut. Hedag drank. Ryoka spoke haltingly. Nanette said nothing.

They had made it through the fire, Califor and Nanette. That was the story Wiskeria and the rest of the coven had heard from Nanette before shattering grief had given way to this. The path of events that had led Califor to return to put out the fire at the cost of her life was simple.

They had met Belavierr. And in that meeting, she had stolen a bit of Nanette’s hair. Just a strand or two. But that was enough. Belavierr hadn’t ever lied. She’d told the truth; she couldn’t stop the wildfire with her craft. She might have if she used all her magic and her life, but she hadn’t wanted to die. And what she could do was kill Nanette. So she’d made Califor an offer: her daughter or her life.

And to save her daughter from the Stitch Witch, Califor, a legendary [Witch] in her own right, had ridden back and stopped the fire. She’d saved Wiskeria. And Belavierr had cheated her death again.

It was such a simple story. All of Belavierr’s stories of her evil were the same. Ryoka felt sick. But this had crossed a line. This hadn’t been a deal or self-defense. This had been evil. As Nanette sat next to her, Hedag honed her axe.

“This blade’s never ended a [Witch]. Hedags don’t go after [Witches] much. And this Hedag is a [Witch], so there’s less point. In our covens, we look the other way from the sins a [Witch] does so long as it brings no grief upon our kind. We’ve little enough allies to peck each other apart. But when a [Witch] kills another [Witch]—then they are hunted. By other [Witches]. And if ever I meet Belavierr, I owe her a Hedag’s justice.”

Ryoka couldn’t care about that. Belavierr was gone. She had killed Califor. Killed her and left Nanette with nothing. That was what mattered. She had to ask.

“Was she…Nanette’s…”

“Mother? Califor?”

Hedag’s voice was too loud. Ryoka and Nanette flinched. Hedag nodded.

“She was Nanette’s mother. If she pretended otherwise, it was to spare Nanette the attention she might have had otherwise. Or else other [Witches] would have looked to her like Wiskeria. Judged. You know how we are.”

“I’m so sorry.”

Ryoka said it again. Hedag snorted. She delicately moved the axe across the whetstone. And her gaze was merciless as she gazed at Ryoka.

“Sorrys and regrets have never salved a wound, Wind-Girl. Go. And do what good you may elsewhere. Leave Nanette to herself. And say her name. Califor.”

“But Nanette’s—”

Ryoka looked at the girl. She was crying, crying without moving. Hedag’s voice was implacable.

“She was Nanette’s mother. And she was named Califor. Don’t pretend she never existed. And you, Nanette, let it hurt. Let it hurt or the wound will never heal.”

The girl wept. And Ryoka looked at her and Hedag. And she didn’t have the courage to stay.





Day 73



It took Laken two days to deal with the Goblins. And when he did, Ryoka was there. She had to be. She didn’t know what Laken intended, but she was ready for…anything. She still had yet to talk to him. Riverfarm was still growing as more shell-shocked folks made their way here, speaking of the fire. Laken was reorganizing, dealing with the problems of city folk versus villagers, people wanting special treatment because of their class, even petty thefts.

And the thing was, he was dealing with the problems, not patching them up for later. [Thieves] were evicted after a lashing or time in the pillories. People were told to live with their neighbors or politely informed they could leave. And two [Bandit] groups were smashed by Beniar and his [Riders] in night raids almost before they’d been formed.

The [Emperor] was back. Most people couldn’t be happier. But even the happiest, even people like Prost and Durene, feared the Goblins. Twice, people had come after the prisoners in their wagons, for vengeance or out of fear.

Both times, Laken had spotted the trouble coming, but the Goblins? Ryoka knew that Laken couldn’t have turned them loose along his trip without them being hunted down or potentially terrorizing some area, but she couldn’t imagine how he’d handle them now.

She didn’t have to wait any longer. The Goblins were being unloaded out of the wagons. They formed a huge mass, warily eying the caravan guards and the militia that Laken had recreated. The Humans were armed and roughly equal in number to the Goblins; only a few were Hobs. Even so, it felt like the Humans were more terrified than the Goblins at this moment.

They were wary. Oh yes, Ryoka could see some of them looking around, clearly seeking lines of escape. But the place Laken had put them—next to a river curving south from Riverfarm and too far away from a forest and a mountain to the west—wasn’t a good place for running. It was relatively flat, here at least. So the Goblins stayed put. At least, for the moment.

They were strange to Ryoka. She was no Goblin expert, but she could at least tell that they were from different…tribes. Some even had grey skin! Others, a few, were marked with red paint—practically covered with it. One even wore a chef’s hat. It was dirty and had lost some of its floof, but the little Goblin had it on her head as she hid behind another Hobgoblin who was definitely female. Her entire body was covered in exotic paint, and she looked around warily, watching, listening.

“Well, so this is what you all look like. And you.”

Laken waited until the last Goblin left the carts. Then he addressed them. He didn’t get any closer, but he was speaking to one of the Hobgoblins who wore red paint. The Hobgoblin stared at Laken, but didn’t respond. In fact, the Goblins were eerily quiet and still. Laken sighed. He pointedly turned his head across the Goblins’ ranks.

“I know you can understand me. And I know you’re there. I can’t imagine what you must feel. But we’ve arrived at our destination. And you must know what comes next.”

There was a susurration among the Humans. A slow tensing among the Goblins. Laken nodded.

“A choice. Now, listen to me. And watch.”

He walked forwards. Gamel started, and the Humans with weapons wavered, but Laken stopped a good two dozen paces short of the Goblins. He frowned at the ground and then stuck one shoe in the wet earth. It was barren, devoid of grass, but some new shoots were already blooming. Life even after fire. Laken ignored the burgeoning green and dragged his foot along the ground. Everyone stared as the [Emperor] drew a line straight from the river past the Goblins. He stopped, kicked some mud off the tip of his shoe, and pointed at the line.

“You see this line? Beyond this line is my land. The land of Riverfarm. The Unseen Empire.”

He was addressing the Hobgoblin with the stripes. Laken stepped back. The Redfang Hob walked forwards and investigated the line. He eyed it, then pointed at the land across the line. Laken nodded.

“My territory.”

The Goblin instantly stepped over the line. Ryoka, Beniar—all of the Humans tensed. Laken just chuckled. The Hobgoblin watched, expectant. Laken nodded.

“Well now, you’re on my land. So that means my laws apply. Steal, harm, or break the laws of Riverfarm and you will face the consequences. And I will tell you each of the laws if you ask. While you are on my land, you will be treated like people. If someone harms you, I will know. And I will punish the guilty. But I cannot promise you will be safe.”

The Hobgoblin stared at him. He peered at the other side of the line. Walked across it. Then he kicked some dirt over the line as if to say ‘so what’? Laken nodded patiently.

“Beyond this line are Goblin lands. Your territory. And your rules. Perhaps someone will have need to cross this line. If, for instance, some Goblins took something that belonged to Humans. Someone shot a deer and it ran across this line. Sometimes, Humans may need to cross this line. But whether and how we do is up to you. How you act.”

He waited. The Goblins waited. Some of them began picking their noses. Laken continued, undeterred.

“The line isn’t just here. It continues. From here straight up to that mountain. I also warn you that I control much of the land to your south. But if you go south and west too far, you will run into lands claimed by Humans. This immediate area is my territory for at least twenty miles south of here. And my people will patrol my borders while not stepping onto Goblin lands. You see? Along the river is how far it goes. We will put people down the river and catch those who might try to hurt you if we can. But again—you know us Humans.”

The Goblins stirred. So did Ryoka. Laken wasn’t promising them much. You know Humans. It was practically a warning. But Laken was saying…Ryoka’s eyes narrowed. The [Emperor] continued, and both Humans and Goblins were listening, trying to figure out what his game was.

“I can see what happens on my land, by the way. I can see what you do. You can try taking vengeance. Or you can run off. I’ll stop you if you attack Humans. I won’t stop you if you run off, or protect you. And this is the only thing I will ever give you. This line. Oh—and this.”

He pointed casually to something behind the Goblins. They turned around and stared at the pile of objects and opened crates. One of them stared inside. A little Goblin poked his hand in and pulled something out. Laken nodded.

“Hammers. Nails. Hoes. Shovels. Etcetera. And food to last you a week, if you manage it. That’s all. Do with it as you will. And remember—my line. My territory. That’s yours.”

He turned and began to walk away. The Goblins stared at his back. Beniar’s jaw was practically falling off his face. Ryoka could feel the disbelief in the air from both sides. That was it? But Laken only stopped once.

“Oh, and one more thing.”

Hundreds of stomachs and butts instinctively clenched. This was it. The [Emperor] pointed back towards the crate.

“It’s right on top of the pillows. Try not to break it.”

The Goblins stared at the crates. The [Emperor] smiled once.

“See you.”

Then he walked away. Slowly, the Humans followed. Some of them were already arguing with the [Emperor].

“Your Majesty! We have to set a guard!”

“Then set one.”

“They have weapons!”

“Well, if they use them, I’ll know. This is what an army’s for, Beniar. Speaking of which, we need to begin recruitment and training.”

“But—”

“What else do you want, Beniar? I’ll let you have it. But no killing Goblins. Anything else I’m fine with.”

And then their voices trailed off. The female Human with bare feet stared at the Goblins a while longer before running off. And the Goblins of four tribes—the tribe of Tremborag, the Great Chieftain of the Mountain, the Redfang Warriors, the Flooded Waters tribe Goblins, and the Solstice Goblins, who had once been Cave Goblins—all stared at each other.

Ulvama was muttering to herself. Some of the Hobs were looking at each other. They had no chieftain. The chieftains might all be dead. Did they form a new tribe? What about the strange, blind Human’s words?

It was one of the Redfangs who made the first move. She was a Hob and a Redfang, and she had her priorities straight. The first thing the Redfang Hob did was grab the shovel and lift it. She checked it for faults and swung it once. Nodded.

Sharp. It was no sword, but she could kill something with it. The other Redfang Hobgoblin nodded. He checked the crates, looking at saws, nails, all kinds of things you could make useful weapons from. Or fortifications. He grunted, and two of the smaller Redfang Warriors began arming themselves, debating on how to get ahold of some armor.

And then the Redfang Hob paused. He remembered the [Emperor]’s words. Slowly, suspiciously, he looked for the crate filled with pillows, which some Goblins were already tearing apart for feathers, which were good for all kinds of stuff, like toilet paper or arrow fletching. And the Redfang Hob stopped.

The other Goblins saw his posture, saw the shock. Not alarm, so they crowded closer. And they all stopped, staring down into the crate. At the other thing the [Emperor] had left.

They stared at it. Ulvama blinked. Pebblesnatch came from behind her. The little Cave Goblin’s eyes were wide, because she recognized it too. They all did.

It was the iPhone.





Day 74



“Emperor Laken wishes to see you, Miss Griffin.”

Three days after he’d arrived, Ryoka finally got the call to meet Laken. She couldn’t blame him, not really. He’d been fielding [Messages] left and right yesterday. Among housing thousands, designing a new village, gathering food and supplies and working out what was essentially a bureaucracy in the making, Laken had also had to deal with the Drakes.

Or rather, one Drake, whose body had been preserved in a coffin. Not out of respect, but necessity. Ryoka could only listen to a few reports, but it appeared that the Drakes’ attack on other lands had gone off with mixed success. In places, they’d just done damage and left, like Lord Veltras’ estates. In others, they’d gone in personally and caused damage, like Lord Erill’s home where the Drakes had cut down notable figures before retreating—or dying.

However, there were few bodies. Fewer signs of proof. The Drakes had magical objects on them, but most had preferred to destroy their gear before dying. And none had anything that connected them to a city or organization.

It was a mess. But Laken was communicating with the other nobles who’d been affected. Tellingly, they were all wealthy or powerful individuals that had taken part in the siege of Liscor. Smaller [Lords] like Yitton Byres hadn’t been hit, only the big ones. And Laken.

“Laken? Are you here?”

Ryoka pushed open the door. Gamel glared at the impropriety, but Laken looked up from the table. He’d converted one of the houses into a meeting room so people would stop borrowing Rie’s or Prost’s homes. Another thing the [Emperor] could do that stuck.

“Yes, come in, have a seat. Can Gamel get you anything?”

“Nope.”

“Then that will be all, Gamel. Give us some room. And keep people away unless it’s an emergency.”

“Of course, Your Majesty.”

The door closed. Gamel cast one curious glance at Ryoka before the door closed. Laken sighed, sat back, and then spoke in a much more conversational tone of voice.

“I’m sorry it took so long to arrange a meeting. But I’ve been swamped—”

“So I see. It’s no problem. How’re things?”

Ryoka stretched out at the table, watching Laken closely. He didn’t turn his head to look at her. He was aware of where she was, of course, but he didn’t react to her like someone with eyes would, and that was disconcerting. He was surer than she was of the locations of things around him, actually. Case in point, Laken reached to one side and lifted a cup without turning his head.

“They’ve been there a day. The [Witches], I mean. Your Centauress friend really did get there in two days. And apparently, the [Witches] managed to figure out an antidote in record time.”

“According to who?”

Laken paused, and then he laughed.

“Ah, well, it was quick. Puts the [Healers] to shame, really. But apparently that [Witch]. Mavika? She’s experienced with Drake poisons and their venom. Apparently, one of them was spitting it into the water supply and increasing the dosage.”

“Nasty. So the dogs are alright?”

The conversation was moving faster than the [Emperor] had expected, but he just exhaled and shook his head, weary.

“More or less. Lots of them died. And some people too, but Gralton cares more about dogs than…the rest are recovering. The [Witches] are headed back now. I’ll need to prepare Mavika’s reward if she wants it all at once. But you don’t need to hear about my issues.”

“Nope. We’re here to chat. Come on, take a load off.”

Ryoka gestured at the table. Laken smiled.

“Can I get you anything to eat? We’ve got snacks.”

“Huh. Well, maybe. Let me check. Oh—”

Ryoka got up and went to the cupboard. She frowned at what was inside. Then she motioned to Laken.

“Hey, uh, it’s not a snack, but—”

“What? Something wrong with the walnuts?”

Laken looked up with a frown. Ryoka motioned to him, and he got up.

“I don’t know if you can see it with your [Emperor] vision. Come here.”

He walked over, past a chair, and straight into Ryoka’s fist. She hit him in the stomach as hard as she could—she didn’t feel like breaking a finger on his jaw.

Laken doubled over. He didn’t groan, and he didn’t retch—he just fell over, clutching his stomach. Ryoka watched him double over on the floor in silent agony for a minute. She debated a kick, but thought better. After another minute, she heard a sound.

He was swearing in German. Ryoka listened a bit and stared at her hand. No good. She’d hoped it would feel different, but she still felt like she’d just sucker-punched a blind man. Not a great feeling.

Ryoka walked over and took a seat at the table again. Well, she did feel better now she’d gotten that out into the open. She addressed Laken on the floor.

“I hope you know why I did that.”

“—scheißkerl—I was wondering why you sounded off. I’m going to throw up.”

Laken tried to pull himself up onto his chair. He winced and decided to lie still for a second longer. Ryoka raised one eyebrow.

“You’re not going to call for Gamel and have me executed?”

“Gods damn it, Ryoka—go ahead and start kicking me if you want, but don’t hit me in the stomach or I’ll puke.”

Laken was still curled up, despite trying to stand. Ryoka folded her arms.

“I’m not going to beat you up. You deserved one. And I gave you one.”

“Yes, well, I can’t stop you.”

“You’re not actually blind. I mean—”

Ryoka hesitated as Laken’s closed eyes turned towards her incredulously. She flushed, despite knowing he couldn’t see it.

“You deserved that.”

“I think—it hurts—I think if you hit me for the reason I’m thinking about, I deserve far worse. Are you going to punch me every time you and I are alone?”

Laken pulled himself up. He sat, doubled over, and his entire face was one grimace. Now, Ryoka was getting angrily defensive.

“You deserve it. Don’t prevaricate with me.”

“I’m going to prevaricate on the floor. No one’s ever given me a punch like that. How does Beniar do his fighting thing? Is there a bucket?”

Ryoka wavered, then grabbed one. She slammed it down, and Laken recoiled, then dragged himself back to the table where he sat and held the bucket with clear fear it would be used.

“Want to talk seriously instead of being Mister Emperor?”

Laken put his head down on the table. After a second, he raised a hand.

“Don’t hit me again. May I ask one question?”

“I’m not going to hit you. Again. What is it?”

“Is the punch for neglecting Durene, Riverfarm? Califor dying? Not sensing the Drake saboteur? Or is it about the Goblins?”

Ryoka hesitated.

“…The Goblins. But I guess the rest of that counts too. For sieging Liscor, jackass.”

Laken’s face was a full wince.

“Can I ask you to hit me in the leg for the rest of it? I really do feel like I’m—”

“Shut up. Do you even know what you did?”

Ryoka glared at him. She raised a fist, and Laken flinched. Since that made her feel like the bad person, Ryoka slowly put her hands back on the table.

“I owed you a punch. And if you met my friend, she’d probably give you ten times that. If she didn’t try to stab you first. What the hell were you thinking?”

“Is this the part where I explain like I was going to?”

Ryoka’s growled.

“You nearly wiped out a city of innocent Drakes and Gnolls!”

Laken’s face was sweaty as he glowered in her general direction.

“Firstly. I didn’t know we were attacking Liscor. Do you not remember there was a Goblin Lord? He attacked Riverfarm! When Tyrion Veltras came by, a Goblin army had just been fighting mine. When he told me Liscor was the target, I wasn’t in a position to refuse.”

Ryoka hesitated. In her gut-punching decision, she’d largely been focused on how to execute it without Gamel trying to murder her. She had forgotten…

“You could have backed out.”

“Oh, absolutely. A blind [Emperor] with a few hundred followers arguing with the head of House Veltras. After he took the trebuchets from me, what would have changed? That would be the most idiotic political move I can think of. I did what I could. Just so you know, I told the trebuchets to stop firing when I could. It wasn’t much.”

“…How many people died?”

Laken had enough energy to sit up by now. He grimaced.

“Tens of thousands.”

“Dead gods. I’m going to kill you! No one said—”

Ryoka almost went for his throat, and Laken recoiled.

“I know, I know. They were massacred, but I didn’t even think we were killing people! Just—monsters. It was mostly both tribes. Then Tyrion tried to wipe them all out. I know it was heinous.”

His grimace drew Ryoka up short. She hesitated.

“Wait. You’re talking about Goblins.”

It was Laken’s turn to actually crack one eye open as if he could see.

“Yes.”

“I mean Liscorians.”

“Well, you said people. Wait, were you punching me because I sieged Liscor?”

Laken’s voice rose, a touch indignant, and Ryoka hesitated.

“No, I owed you that for the Goblins too—”

She just hadn’t thought about the Goblins so much as Erin’s city and Erin herself. But now the [Emperor] was scowling in her direction.

“I thought the punch was for the Goblins, which I admit, I deserve! You care about the city? Damn the city. No one even got hurt! We hit it a few times with rocks!”

“I heard Antinium died—”

“Goblins were wiped out by the tens of thousands. Tribes. I held one’s hand, and he told me his brothers were dead. I—I have been thinking of that. Dreaming of that, Ryoka.”

The Wind Runner paused. Suddenly, she was on the defensive.

“—That’s terrible. I haven’t met many Goblins aside from the ones Erin had. But all of it was—”

The [Emperor] took a deep breath, almost retched, then faced her.

“Hit me again.”

“What? Are you crazy?”

Laken bared his stomach, looking apprehensive.

“Hit me again. You clearly meant that first punch about Liscor.”

“I’m not going to hit you so you can throw up on me.”

“No, I insist on behalf of Goblins. Hold on, I can go find them. I’m sure they’ll do the job.”

The Wind Runner stared at the [Emperor]—then gave him a light punch to the stomach. He punched her back.

“Motherf—”

Ryoka swore. Laken swung, a bit wildly, as she leaned back.

“That’s your ‘I killed all the Goblins punch’?”

“Fuck you, I’ll kick you so hard you and Durene won’t ever have fun again. Stop flailing. You deserved that punch for Liscor and the Goblins, alright?”

Somehow, her ability to lecture him from a place of moral outrage had faded. Laken crossed his legs, and then he spoke slowly, measuring his words.

“Let’s start over. Before I got to Liscor—let’s talk about Goblins. The first time I met Goblins, they were trying to kill everyone in Riverfarm. Perhaps I should have realized they weren’t all like that. But I was told monsters were monsters. That was my mistake. That and giving Tyrion Veltras weapons to use against the Drakes. But I didn’t foresee—hah—the end result of what was happening. The entire time, I thought I was defending Riverfarm from monsters, then helping a decent man. When I realized what I was doing? That was when I tried to stop it. Too late, each time. I regret it.”

Ryoka paused. As explanations went, that was pretty good.

“So you know they’re not monsters, right? They’re pretty intelligent.”

Laken rubbed at his face.

“—I talked to one. I’m wondering if you know how much of a people they are, Ryoka. Listening to them scream at Liscor would have been enough. But I met a Goblin Chieftain the day my army attacked theirs at Lancrel. Yes, I know.”

The young woman sat there, taking this in.

“—All of this mess in Riverfarm was a result of sieging Liscor, you know. Those Drakes were sent here to take revenge. I’ll bet anything. Eloise says they probably come from Manus, their, um, City of War.”

Laken grimaced.

“Story checks out. It’s a mess. And everyone’s telling me what monsters Drakes are. What awful things they’ve done. But—let me know if they’re any different than Goblins.”

“Nope. Bit scalier. Hot tempered. Stubborn. Pretty damn Human, really.”

“That’s what I thought. Gnolls?”

“Furry Humans. Pretty decent people. Don’t blow up their shops.”

Laken sighed. He massaged his stomach, then put his head down on the table.

“I am in so much pain.”

After a beat, Ryoka coughed.

“…Maybe you didn’t deserve me hitting you that hard. So you, uh, took your time getting back because you wanted to save some Goblins, right? I get that.”

Laken kicked her so hard under the table that Ryoka doubled over in pain. The [Emperor]’s face was too triumphant when he looked up.

“That makes us even. I’ve never had a fistfight before. I almost want to have one.”

“I could oblige that.”

Ryoka raised her fists, and Laken shook his head. Then his face fell.

“—I did what I could, Ryoka, to make amends for Goblins. In doing so, Riverfarm was devastated. Gralton’s dogs paid for it with their lives. And so did Riverfarm’s people, but most of all—Witch Califor. Who, I am told, was a great [Witch]. No matter what I do, someone suffers.”

The urge to fight went out of her. Ryoka sat, ignoring the pain in her stinging shin. She bowed her head.

“Yeah. And that’s…a huge loss. Believe me. I wish you could have met her. The other [Witches] are great. But I liked her the most.”

Laken nodded, silently.

“My fault.”

“No. Belavierr’s. The Drake’s.”

“Who was here because I sieged Liscor. As you said.”

“Tyrion Veltras sieged Liscor. Listen—”

“You can’t un-punch me, Ryoka. Give me some credit for all of this. Not all of it. But I am responsible.”

Ryoka glowered at Laken, who, again, was immune to most stares.

“Now you’re doing the opposite of what I—you did the best you could. I get it. If you had let go of the Goblins? They would have been hunted down. The cages are a bad look—”

“They weren’t happy, but they survived. Again, if there were a better option—”

“Not all your fault.”

“Well, how much of it is my fault? Because I feel very responsible, Ryoka. This isn’t something I can just wash my hands of. I feel guilty, and I would very much rather feel guilty than not. It seems to me I would be a [Tyrant] rather than an [Emperor] if I felt nothing was wrong.”

Laken snapped at Ryoka, and she had to admit this was true. Ryoka thought for a second.

“Let’s say…you’re one punch’s worth of guilty. How about that?”

The two sat there, and Laken’s mouth worked—then he began laughing. She laughed too until Laken seized the bucket. Then…

Then they were calmer. And Ryoka felt like instead of the foreign [Emperor] who had done so many terrible things, she had once again encountered the young, blind man with the best of intentions in Invrisil.

“Okay. This actually went better than I thought it might.”

Laken sighed, and Ryoka had to wonder what he’d thought she would do. She had to agree.

“I guess me too. I thought I might be running out of here with Beniar hunting me down. Okay. Sorry for hitting you…sort of. Can I ask what you’re doing now that you're back?”

Laken raised an eyebrow.

“You saw what I was doing.”

“Rebuilding. What comes after that?”

The [Emperor] shrugged. He sat up, grabbed his cup, and drank.

“I have a few ideas. Mainly, it will be turning Riverfarm into an actual place. One that has goods to export, has a reason for people to pay attention to it. Besides the trebuchets. Deal with the [Witches]. Forge an alliance between Riverfarm and Gralton’s and Yitton’s lands. Basic stuff like that.”

“Fair enough. So you don’t have a grand plan?”

“I have multiple plans. Whether they’re grand is debatable. You want me to get into detail?”

“Please. But first, talk to me about the Goblins. What the hell was that yesterday? Are you just going to let them form a tribe? Or what? What’s your angle with them?”

Laken frowned.

“They haven’t all run off, if that’s what you mean. But I didn’t lie to them. I will leave them alone. I have hopes for them. But it depends on what they do.”

“Tell me.”

Ryoka leaned forwards. Laken hesitated, and she waited. She wanted to trust him. But every conscious part of her pulled herself back. Trust had been given too freely of late. At last, Laken sighed.

“Well, for one thing, they’re occupying the only good mining spot on my lands. And they have my iPhone until it runs out of charge. And to judge from what I’m seeing—they’re preparing to be attacked. They’re building a base. And here’s what I predict happening if I tweak things right…”

He leaned forwards. Ryoka listened. She blinked.

“That might work. Historically, I mean, there are parallels.”

Laken rolled his closed eyes.

“Oh, lecture me on the parallels. Parallels? I had no idea there were historical parallels in what I was doing. Go ahead, tell me all about the history of the world.”

Ryoka coughed, embarrassed.

“Sorry. I just meant—that could work. Okay. I believe you. It’s a good plan, at least. But it does depend on the Goblins.”

“They’re people. They might not do what I expect them to. But I’ve given them a chance. That’s all I can do.”

The two sat in silence after that. Ryoka hesitated. She bit her lip. Laken faced ahead. And then he raised his head.

“—Same for the [Witches]. I will repay whatever debt I can. Especially to…Nanette? I promise. I have a lot of debts and—oh. Huh. I completely forgot about them. Ah, right, I was going to tell you.”

“Oh? What?”

Ryoka wasn’t sure what he might have to bring up specifically to her. If it was a residency offer, she felt like she’d ruined that with the gut punch. But to her surprise, Laken was suddenly intent on her. And as he spoke—she felt a chill run down her back.

The [Emperor] hesitated. He bit his lip and looked rueful. And then focused on Ryoka.

“I…forgot, Ryoka. In the early spring, I summoned the fae. And I met one of them. She called herself Ivolethe. She wanted you to know she’s alive.”

Ryoka stared at Laken. He waited. She was frozen in place. After a minute, he coughed.

“Ryoka?”

She didn’t respond. She’d turned into a statue. Worried, Laken reached out.

“Ry—”

“Ivolethe’s alive?”

Ryoka leapt to her feet. She stared at Laken, white-faced, although he couldn’t have known that. He leaned back.

“Yes—”

He got no further because Ryoka let out a shout that made Gamel open the door. He saw Ryoka dancing around inside, laughing hysterically. Laken shooed Gamel away, and the door closed. Ryoka didn’t notice. She laughed and began to sob, then lost her balance.

Laken waited, surprised. Ryoka was laughing and crying on the floor. She didn’t stop. Her laughter was relieved, wild, hysterical. Eventually, Laken began to laugh as well.

It took a long while for them to stop. At last, Ryoka returned to her seat. Her throat was raw. But she reached out and grabbed Laken’s hands, to his surprise. And he sensed the tears in her voice and eyes.

“You know, I’d forgive you for almost anything for telling me that. Thank you. Thank you. She’s…”

He wished he could see her face. Because every line of her he sensed—Ryoka sat down in the chair again.

Redemption. He didn’t know what had happened between her and Ivolethe. But the City Runner wiped tears from her eyes. So it hurt Laken to deliver the next part of the message.

“She’ll never see you in this world. It’s her punishment or something.”

Ryoka froze. But after a moment, she replied, quietly unsurprised.

“That’s okay. Maybe I’ll see her in my next life. Or when I die. But at least she’s…alive.”

She sat there with him. Laken waited, but nothing more came from Ryoka. After a while, he began to chuckle again. When Ryoka made an inquiring sound, he shook his head.

“When did it all go so wrong, eh?”

“Yeah. What happened to the Laken I met? The guy who seemed more upbeat and less—world-weary? You looked like you had the world on your shoulders, in the meeting with the coven.”

The [Emperor] paused.

“Well, this Laken has a lot more mistakes he doesn’t want to make again. The old Laken you met back then was just a kid playing at being [Emperor]. Well-intentioned, but this time, I know what the cost of failure is. This Ryoka is a bit more impressive.”

“What? You barely remember the old me.”

“Well, this one apparently controls tornadoes instead of just running through blizzards.”

Ryoka hung her head.

“I barely did anything. I was just the observer, and when it counted…”

Laken’s voice was gentle, but gentle as opposed to redemptive.

“You saved what you could. Not enough. I left my people alone for too long. We can both do better. I need to regain their trust. Durene’s…everyone’s…where will we begin?”

Then they were just tired. Ryoka rubbed at her face, and she glanced at Laken.

“You could start by paying me.”

Laken chuckled. Ryoka didn’t.

“I’m serious. I have expenses.”

“I know. I’ll get the money to you. I’m not hurting for coin. Call it my first Skill or just luck; Gralton, one of my new allies, is one of the richer [Lords] in the area. And Yitton Byres has his silver mines, although he’s not hugely wealthy. I can borrow from them until I get Riverfarm an actual economy. That’s actually easier than the Goblins, by the way.”

“Really? In that case, a thousand gold coins—”

“Don’t be greedy.”

“I outran a tornado made of fire to save your damn village. And the [Witches]—”

He had been chuckling until she brought up Califor. The two fell silent again. Ryoka scrubbed at her face.

“You never met her. But Miss Califor was a hero, Laken. You owe them. I don’t know exactly what they’ll ask, but you owe them something large. As large as a life.”

“I know. Tell me just one thing, Ryoka. What was the other one like? Belavierr?”

Ryoka paused. She took a long, long time to reply.

“Like…a nightmare, Laken. A nightmare, at first. But a classic one. One you think you know. So it’s scary, but you expect it, in a way. Horrifying as it may be. And then you wake up. And you think it was just a dream. You think you know reality. But then you realize you’re still dreaming. That’s her.”

Laken shuddered. The two sat in silence for a while longer. At last, he cleared his throat.

“I don’t expect you to stay. I’d like you to. If you wanted it, I could find you a role in Riverfarm. For you and your friends. But I doubt you trust me that much.”

“Nope. And I’m a Runner. Born to run.”

Laken smiled.

“Will you keep in touch?”

“You bet I’ll check in now and again.”

Ryoka nodded. She stood up and, after a moment, hesitated.

“The traitor. The one who ordered the attack on the Goblins at Lancrel. I told you about my suspicions, didn’t I?”

Laken paused. Ryoka had, by [Message]. He spoke slowly.

“Tyrion Veltras was as good as his word back then. He asked every single noble under truth spell if they had committed the crime. His subordinate, Jericha, did it. And the traitor never showed up.”

“You can fool a [Detect Truth] spell. Not just with the wording. You can literally just ignore it if you have the right artifact. Or spell.”

Ryoka watched Laken’s expression. He swore under his breath.

“Alright. Who’s your guess?”

She told him and watched his face change. Laken got up to pace. Ryoka quietly spread her arms.

“It’s only a guess.”

Laken nodded distractedly, but she saw how rattled he was.

“In storytelling logic, your first guess is always wrong. And it’s always the last person you expect. Like Durene, I suppose. Or Frostwing.”

“If we were in a story. How many of them have Goblins that aren’t monsters?”

Laken paused at that. Then he sat back down.

“I’ll check it out. Even if you’re right, finding proof will be hard. Especially because everyone knows about my [Emperor] senses. Still. Lady Rie?”

“Yup.”

“Damn. I’ll…she was loyal the entire time I was gone, Ryoka.”

“If she’s one of the Circle of Thorns’ members, she might want to turn you against Magnolia.”

Ryoka pointed out. Laken scrubbed his face.

“If she is. If she is, I’ll make my decision. Let’s…talk about something else. I’ll watch her, Ryoka. If you’re right, I’ll find out eventually.”

The young woman nodded. She sat in silence with Laken for a bit and then thought of a topic.

“What are you going to do about the [Witches]?”

“I have a few thoughts. Would you like to talk about it?”

Laken smiled bleakly. Ryoka smiled too. The two sat across from each other, wary, trying to understand each other. Trying to be…friends. Ryoka laughed, forcing it a bit.

“Sure. But if you ask me how to make a ballista, I’m going to hit you again.”

Laken chuckled.

“Don’t worry. I’m pretty sure I could work one out myself.”

This time, Ryoka’s laughter was genuine. She reached out and punched Laken. In the shoulder. He replied with a sharp punch, and she swore.

“Ow!”

“Sorry, I always thought you hit each other harder when people told me about doing it…”

And they sat there and talked until Gamel brought dinner. They might have become friends. Or they might have already been friends. Ryoka didn’t know.

She left that night. Before the other [Witches] returned. It wasn’t that she didn’t want to know what happened next. It was just that Ryoka had a fairly good idea of what Laken would do. And this was not her empire. Strangely, unsettlingly, and rightly, it was his. He belonged here. And she—

She had to go. She had friends in Reizmelt. She had a friend in Charlay. She would come back to see what he’d done. But Riverfarm—she’d done all she could here. So she left. And the [Emperor] sat and thought of all she’d talked to him about over that night.

He wished she’d stayed.





Day 76



The coven met outside of the [Emperor]’s throne room and talked quietly. They had come back. And they had been summoned not an hour after Eloise had flown back, riding on Alevica’s broom. Neither [Witch] had enjoyed the journey, but they gathered nonetheless. Mavika spoke, peering at the others in turn.

“He paid his promises due. I counsel caution, but remember that he has kept his words true.”

Eloise was next. Good advice came in threes, and the three oldest [Witches] gave it in turn.

“I counsel caution as well. [Emperors] have many tricks and Skills.”

“I counsel trust, then. For his people love him, and the children too. And they have eyes that see through what adults do. Besides. We have paid too much in Califor’s life not to see this through. There’s a rhyme for you, Mavika. Good enough?”

Hedag laughed. The other [Witches] nodded. All but Nanette. She followed like a ghost. She had to be there or the coven wouldn’t be whole. But it was already broken. Califor was gone. And Belavierr…

Wiskeria’s stomach clenched as she entered the throne room. She had spoken to Laken about the events that had unfolded, but not in detail. And he had not told her how he felt about the other [Witches]. Nor could she promise the coven that they’d get what they wanted. But—here they were. After all that had happened, Wiskeria stood with her fellow [Witches].

She could do nothing less.

“His Majesty, Emperor Godart, Protector of Durene’s Cottage, Ruler of Riverfarm and the surrounding area, and sovereign lord of the Unseen Empire!”

Gamel cried the address as the [Witches] approached the throne. Alevica snorted. Hedag laughed. Wiskeria thought that Laken had intended it that way, but Eloise’s silent elbows made the other [Witches] bow slightly. And Laken nodded in reply.

“Approach and speak freely.”

The coven did. They lined up, six [Witches] standing together. Wiskeria, Hedag, Mavika, Nanette, Alevica, Eloise. And they felt the absence of the other two. Laken stared down at them from his carved, wooden throne. And his voice was neither harsh nor welcoming.

“So. A coven comes before me. A coven whose members have wrought great ill and good for my lands and that of my allies. And a coven comes to me today to strike a bargain.”

Wiskeria paused. Laken’s voice was distant and impartial. It wasn’t like the Laken she knew. Sitting on that throne, he looked like an [Emperor], though he had no crown and his garments were plain. It was Eloise who spoke for the others.

“Your Majesty, we speak for all [Witches] across Izril. And we make you a simple offer. Consider what you have seen us do. Consider our craft that you have witnessed or heard of. We are [Witches], and we bring good. Sometimes ill, yes, but often good. We provide magic, charms, our expertise. What we ask—all we ask—is that we be given freedom to practice our arts on your lands, free of persecution.”

“Sheltered by my empire.”

Eloise paused.

“If you would say it like that, yes, Your Majesty. We would like you to guarantee that bounties on [Witches] be invalidated on your lands unless there was ample reason given. It is not a crime to be a [Witch].”

“But some [Witches] commit crimes, true?”

Eloise paused. Wiskeria stared up at the [Emperor]. What was he doing? The coven shifted restlessly.

“Some do, Your Majesty. But some [Carpenters] are monsters. Some are good workers. Often, a [Witch] is blamed for things she has not done. Or spells, bargains, undertook on behalf of another.”

“Such as…?”

“Cursing a cheating husband, Your Majesty. Casting a hex that makes a well scream his name and the woman he slept with. Giving someone a boil. Petty crimes like that are things [Witches] do. It’s a service, like a [Mercenary].”

Wiskeria broke in desperately. Laken stared at her.

“Or a [Thug] beating a man after being paid. Those are hostile magics, Witch Wiskeria.”

Eloise spoke quickly.

“They are not what all [Witches] do. Many do not cast such magics, Your Majesty. In fact, many bring a positive change. Such as Witch Mavika, who eradicated pests from your fields.”

Laken frowned.

“Yes, I have heard that from Prost. But that does not change the point, Witch Eloise. Under your pact, [Witches] would be free to practice their craft in my lands. Free from prejudice or their crimes of old. And part of that craft might harm my citizens.”

The coven paused and shuffled their feet. Well, if he wanted to get technical about it—Wiskeria’s heart was pounding. No one could deny that. But think of all the good they’d done! And then she thought of her mother, and her heart sank.

Eloise was trying to choose her next words carefully. But it was Alevica who stepped up next. She spoke in her most charming voice possible. So charming that Wiskeria was positive she’d used some of her craft.

“It is true that [Witches] cannot be bound, Your Majesty. But we are no group of criminals like [Bandits] or [Raiders]. We are a calling and a class. Some of us do great evil. Others great good. We only ask that we not be treated as enemies without judgment.”

Wiskeria held her breath. Eloise was glaring—as was Mavika. They’d agreed not to use magic on Laken! If it went wrong—

The [Emperor] shook his head, then replied sharply.

“You ask for more than that. You want this to become a gathering of [Witches]. A haven in case the rest of Izril turns against you. How many [Witches] would come here if they knew they could practice most of their craft without interference or judgment?”

“Er—”

Alevica floundered. She glanced around. And it was Hedag who replied with a broad smile.

“We would always be judged, [Emperor]-Fellow. Here is just a place where many of us would like to pause. Or practice our craft without hired [Mercenaries] seeking our life. But that depends on the [Emperor]. Do you see a need for a Hedag? Or do you think the Hedag belongs beneath the axe she’s swung?”

Laken paused, and Wiskeria winced. But it was the right direction. Because Laken nodded and relaxed on his throne.

“You, Witch Hedag, I see a need for. Because I would do the very same if I feared a man were abusing his child. Prost has told me of the man you executed. And I do not fault you for that either. I thank you.”

The coven relaxed. Laken went on.

“But if I were to catch a [Lord] or someone of similar power who had committed murder or worse, would you stride into my prison and behead him then and there?”

Every eye turned to Hedag. Wiskeria willed the old [Witch] to respond diplomatically, but Hedag just shrugged and drank from her flask.

“I suppose that’d lie in the justice I saw such as him receive, wouldn’t it? If it did not satisfy, then the old ways would come out as surely as I stand here.”

The coven glared. Hedag was unmoved. Laken murmured on his throne.

“Old ways are not always the best ways.”

It was an echo of what Califor had said. Nanette jerked and looked up with lost eyes, stared around, before realizing and hanging her head. It silently broke the hearts of all who saw it. But Laken’s eyes were closed. He went on, debating with himself as much as the room.

“If I let Witch Hedag practice her craft and punish parents who abused children, spouses, and criminals, should I forbid [Witches] from casting curses? Making deals like Belavierr did with Rehanna?”

No one replied. Laken eventually paused. When he looked down at the [Witches], he did look. His eyes opened a bit, as if he wanted to see them. And Wiskeria saw his faded eyes and wavered.

“There are no good answers. [Witches]. You may do what is best for Riverfarm. Or you may do ill, and perhaps I could judge you individually and treat you like the people you are. Perhaps there is a place for [Witches] here, despite the potential for strife. If you agreed to hold the most basic rules of hospitality—to kill no one, cheat no one, and offer deals that the other side can clearly understand—perhaps I could allow your presence.”

He waved his arm, gesturing above.

“I have made a court of far stranger folk my vassals, and I considered that a fine deal. For the service one of your own has done Riverfarm, I acknowledge that this may be the least of the ways I can repay it.”

The coven waited. Everyone could hear the ‘but’. It came out differently from the [Emperor].

“However, answer me one thing. If there are good among you, and those who do ill, who can hold [Witches] to account? Who will know when they commit a crime? I alone? There is a saying where I come from, [Witches]. Who watches the watchers? In this case, who watches the [Witches] to see what they do? Who will hold them accountable if another Belavierr appears? Who will judge them, if I am unable?”

The coven paused. And each [Witch] looked at the other, seeking who had the best response. It was Mavika who spoke, forestalling the others. Wiskeria heard a laugh, high and mocking. And Mavika spoke for the first time in the throne room. She pointed a finger up at Laken as Wiskeria closed her eyes and tried to imagine how she was going to explain this to any angry [Witches] who came calling. But Mavika’s eyes never wavered as she met Laken’s.

“Haven’t you noticed, young man? Everyone watches us. We watch each other, as wise folk do. You ask whether we can hold each other to account? The greatest [Witch] living, Belavierr, has come to your lands, and the dead lie in her wake, it is true. To balance that, Witch Califor, the Witch Califor saved your village. Weigh that on your scales of judgment, [Emperor]. For you do not know who witches, nay, the world lost. We do. And still, we came to you.”

Wiskeria waited. They all waited as Mavika’s heavy address filled the room. Laken paused. And then he exhaled. Slowly, he nodded, and he leaned forwards, as if there was nothing more he could say. No weighty proclamation; as if there hadn’t been an option but—yes.

“Very well then. We will hammer out this agreement. [Witches] should not be allowed to cast…permanent hexes. Perhaps there is a place to let them punish wrongdoers. But there must be limits. There must be accountability. And we will see how far I will stretch and how far you will. But…”

The coven held its breath. Laken nodded.

“[Witches] may roam Riverfarm. They may practice their craft. And they may come here safe from persecution unwarranted. I must obey the laws of hospitality. More importantly—if Goblins are people, then [Witches] are too. In the name of Witch Califor, who saved Riverfarm, they will be welcomed. Better to have great good and great evil than neither of either at all.”

He nodded down at the coven. At one [Witch]. And she didn’t look up at him. But Wiskeria realized that it was Nanette who had swayed Laken all along. The girl stood there, blank to the world. But as the [Witches] and the [Emperor] spoke and argued, Nanette slowly gazed up. At the rising moons. Because there was one last thing left.





Day 77



It was done. The coven had made a deal with the [Emperor] of Riverfarm. And it had been hard-won, too hard-won. It had come at far too high a price. But the cost of it hadn’t come from just Laken. It had come from the plots of Drakes, an order of [Knights]. And a [Witch] who had forsworn herself for her daughter.

Someday, Belavierr would face her punishment. Wiskeria had sworn it. She would never cease hunting her mother. And she would become stronger. She would put an end to her mother herself.

But tonight wasn’t about Belavierr. It had been seven days since the fire. Seven days since Miss Califor had died. And on this day, the coven of Riverfarm gathered for one last purpose.

The story of Califor had ended. Her thread had been cut, perhaps untimely short. The Stitch Witch had plucked it to trick her own death. And there the story ended for most. But [Witches] had always known a secret about stories. There was always the ending. And then there was what came after.

Six of them gathered. It was a hexagram that they drew on the dark earth where her ashes had been buried. The ground was covered with flowers. And someone had spoken of raising a monument. But in the dark of the night, past midnight, the [Witch]’s hour made the plucked flowers look pale and strange. The two risen moons were close to full.

And the coven had a purpose to fulfill. They had argued over it. Eloise had almost refused to take part. Hedag had been wary. But Mavika insisted. And so had Nanette. Now, Mavika finished the hexagram and placed a catalyst in the center. A handkerchief.

Miss Califor’s. All her clothing had burnt away. Her possessions, such as they were, had mostly gone with her. But Nanette had her mother’s handkerchief. She sacrificed it now. And she cut herself—she called by blood.

The cut was deep. And the blood that trickled from Nanette’s hand made the girl’s face even paler. Her eyes were huge in her head. She shouldn’t have been here. But she had wanted it. She shouldn’t have known about the ritual. Eloise’s fury with Mavika had been frightening. But the crow [Witch] was unmoved.

“It has not been done successfully in years. Few ghosts remain. Few spirits to harness or summon or make deals with. But she was the most powerful in generations. And she died with a grudge. She surely remains. For answers, for your sake, we summon her. But be wary.”

That was all Mavika said. She led the coven. And her low chant echoed across the scorched earth. The [Witches] walked clockwise, then counter-clockwise. Their steps traced a perfect circle. They stamped, and the light flickered.

The only light came from the moons. Everything else was dark. Wiskeria could feel the power. In the ground, in the air, in the time and place and other [Witches]. But they weren’t calling on any of these things.

They were calling on her. The bloody handkerchief shone in the faint moonlight. The blood seeped from Nanette’s hand onto the ground. It ran. It joined. It flowed.

And something was watching them. Something else was there. Wiskeria could feel it. It was gathering in the center of the circle. Mavika ordered the coven back.

“Do not cross the circle.”

It was the one they had walked. Wiskeria could feel it. They’d traced a barrier in the earth. And beyond that point reality had begun to melt. Slough away. Something else lay on the other side. You could fall into it.

But they were calling. As the [Witches] waited, in silence, Wiskeria realized she couldn’t hear anything in the distance. No animals. Not even the rustle of wind. The silence grew and grew. Until it was so quiet that the heartbeat of all the [Witches] was deafening. And then that sound stopped. And something else spoke.

Whispered.

“Nanette.”

The child looked up. She grew pale. She raised her bloody hand. Something was in the center of the hexagram. Something had appeared. It wasn’t made of smoke or even magic. It was something even paler than moonlight. Almost invisible. But taking form. Wiskeria stared.

It did not look like Califor, but the voice was familiar. Nanette stumbled forwards.

“Mother? Mother?”

She was caught by Mavika and Eloise. The young [Witch] fought, but Mavika dragged her back. The older [Witch] was triumphant and alarmed.

“Stay outside of the circle!”

They pulled Nanette back. The girl twisted, crying, and then shouted again.

“Mother! Miss Califor! Are you there?”

“It is me.”

There she stood. It was Califor. Twisted, tattered. She looked—Wiskeria shuddered and felt Alevica shudder beside her. She was burned. Her form was partially destroyed. Twisted. But it was her. The face, the silhouette—or was it?

The coven looked to Mavika. The crow [Witch] paused. She glanced up. A raven flew overhead. Mavika stared at the thing in the circle. And she slowly nodded.

“Califor Weishart. Your coven calls you. Your daughter beseeches you. She wishes to see your face. Do you know her name?”

“Nanette Weishart. My daughter.”

Even in death, Califor’s voice sounded a bit impatient. Mavika nodded. She and Eloise let go of Nanette a bit, and the girl rushed forwards. They held her from the edge of the circle, though. Nanette wept.

“Mother! I’m sorry! It’s my fault!”

“No. I curse the Stitch Witch. Belavierr. Blame no one but her, Daughter.”

Her voice didn’t echo. And it was distinct, snappish, familiar in every syllable. But it was far away. Not distant in volume, but in…Wiskeria closed her eyes as tears sprang to them. Califor’s figure bent, her fingers reaching for her daughter.

“My daughter. You have lost your craft. You have lost your way. And you have lost me. I would give any of these back to you. But I am dead.”

“Come back! Please! I’ll be good! I’ll do anything!”

Nanette begged the ghost. She reached out, and Eloise snatched her hand back. Slowly, regretfully, Califor stood.

“No. I cannot. You must be a [Witch], Nanette. That is my last lesson to you. In the end, we all must walk alone.”

“No! I want to go with you!”

Nanette struggled, screaming. This time, Hedag helped hold her back. Wiskeria’s heart was breaking. Nanette should not have been here. But Mavika was speaking. She held up a pure crystal jar, beautifully carved. And the [Witch]’s eyes flashed.

“Come, Califor. Become your daughter’s strength. Return to the world of the living for a day. A year. Return and be bound.”

Wiskeria held her breath. Not for years had a spirit been summoned. Let alone—she looked at Nanette. But this was wrong. Wiskeria wanted to protest. Not like this. But Califor was shaking her head.

“No. Not for my daughter. I cannot.”

“Why? You hold to the world with your grudge! Why do you not wish to return? What do you see, Califor? For centuries, [Witches] have lost what lies beyond! What has gone wrong?”

Mavika beseeched Califor. And the ghost’s voice was quiet.

“What do I see? Nothing. It is empty. Terribly empty. There is nothing here. They are all gone, hiding. Gathering? I will not stay either. I will not be eaten.”

“Eaten?”

Wiskeria heard the faint voice come from Alevica. The Witch Runner was shivering. And Wiskeria felt it too. Something was leaking from the other side. A cold. A feeling that pulled at Wiskeria. She wanted to walk forwards, and it terrified her.

Califor turned. She stared past Nanette.

“Something walks this ground, sisters. Something older than us all. Something hungers. And it has devoured the land of death. It comes for you, the living. And it is strongest here. On these lands. Some things—I know them. We all do, in the marrow of our class and souls. But they are nameless. He, the one who pursues me among them, is nameless. It must be so. They must never return. I have seen the past in these figures. And yet I fear the future.”

She turned. Mavika was speechless. The crow [Witch] backed up as Califor stepped past her. The dead [Witch]’s eyes moved past her. Searching. And they found Wiskeria. Califor reached out to the limits of the circle, entreating.

“Wiskeria, daughter of Belavierr, who was my death. I crave a boon.”

“Don’t go, Wis. Don’t go. Remember the rules.”

Alevica’s teeth chattered. The ghost paused. And she became more firm. Realer. Her voice closer.

“I call you by your debt. Wiskeria. Come.”

“The ritual has gone on too long. We have made her an offer. Return her! Mavika!”

Eloise snapped. Mavika nodded. But then her head snapped up. Wiskeria was moving.

“Witch Wiskeria! Do not—”

“I have to.”

Wiskeria stared at Califor. The [Witch] was dead. Because of her. Alevica grabbed for her.

“No! Wiskeria, it’s a trick—”

But it was too late. Califor was realer by the second. The lines in her face, her eyes—the other side called to Wiskeria. She stepped forwards, dreamlike, as Califor beckoned to her.

Her foot went through the circle. Mavika hissed, but it was too late. Califor smiled. And then she reached out and seized Wiskeria. Suddenly, her form changed to fire.

Fire. The same fire that had burned her as she died. Her hands were living flame. They grabbed Wiskeria. And suddenly, the flame was real. Wiskeria felt the burning pain. She started to scream. The [Witches] struck at the hexagram, erasing it. Hedag kicked the ground and cursed as Nanette fought to get to her mother. And Califor’s voice echoed in Wiskeria’s ears as she grabbed the [Witch]’s arms.

“Wiskeria. For you, I have died. I curse your mother. I curse her. And I charge you. Keep my daughter safe. Swear it on your life!”

“I swear! I swear!”

Wiskeria screamed. She would have sworn anything to stop the pain! Califor didn’t relent. Her grip tightened. She drew Wiskeria closer. Mavika was shouting something, but Califor’s voice filled Wiskeria’s ears. The ghost sounded almost gentle over Wiskeria’s screams.

“Keep her safe, and beware. Beware what walks in death’s land.”

“Wh—w—”

The ghost paused. And she looked through Wiskeria. Even in death, Wiskeria saw Miss Califor was afraid.

“His name should end and never be spoken. But it will be spoken. So I say it and damn the world for my daughter. Just as Belavierr damned me. And when you hear his name, flee. And take Nanette far, far away. He is our enemy. [Witches] have sworn his death. We were there. We must honor our vows.”

“Who?”

Wiskeria screamed. Califor didn’t reply. Her grip squeezed, and Wiskeria howled. Her flesh caught on fire.

“The ritual’s broken! Seize her!”

Eloise cried. The hexagram was snuffed out. And the portal was closing. Califor was drawn back into the center of the circle. The other [Witches] leapt forwards, pulling Wiskeria back.

But Califor held on. And her lips whispered a word into Wiskeria’s ear. One word that burned into Wiskeria’s mind like the flames that seared her arms. And then the flames vanished. The presence disappeared.

Califor was gone.

Wiskeria lay on the ground, shuddering, screaming in pain as the word and burns marked her. The potion Alevica poured on her didn’t remove the raw handprints on her arm. Nor did Eloise’s charm. Nothing did. As the coven bent around Wiskeria, the last [Witch] stood in front of the circle.

“Miss—?”

Nanette glanced around. But her mother had said nothing more. Not to her, her daughter. She hadn’t even looked at her. Nanette tore off her hat. She sank to her knees, weeping. She lay there, curled up. Until, so quietly that she thought she’d imagined it, she heard a voice.

The girl looked up. And then she saw it. Something lying on the ground. In the center of the circle. It was a little burned. Charred near the tip. But it rested there where it had burnt away to ash before. The other [Witches] turned and stared.

“Nanette—”

Eloise raised a hand. But the girl ignored her. She crawled forwards, eyes wide, disbelieving. And she reached out with a shaking hand. Slowly, the girl took Califor’s hat from the altar and hugged it to her. Tears ran down her cheeks.

“Mommy.”

She whispered the word. And then she screamed it. She sobbed and wept fully. And she sat there as the coven stood, shaken, as the marks on Wiskeria’s arms refused to heal. The name burned in her mind. But it was Nanette who cried a name aloud. Who held her mother’s hat. Desperately, searching for a sign.

But nothing replied. The afterlife was full of nothing. Not even [Witches].





—–



It was not so dark where Ryoka was. Stars shone overhead, and they, combined with the moon, gave her enough illumination to run by. And it was late, she knew. But she was close to her destination. So Ryoka Griffin risked the night run.

She ran north towards Lord Gralton’s lands. Charlay was there, waiting. She hadn’t returned with the [Witches]—apparently, she’d cracked a hoof on the run north. Ryoka was wondering what kind of joke she should tell—unless Charlay was really upset.

North, and then further still. Ryoka was going back to Reizmelt. She had gold, an [Emperor]’s favor for what it was worth, and she had more regrets. More sorrow. But part of her was forging it all into something which gave her the strength to continue.

Determination. Ryoka thought of her friends. Fierre, Levil, Erin.

Mrsha.

She had to go back. And she had to run forwards. So she did. Ryoka Griffin ran down a forest road, alert for any sounds or light. And she was so focused on noticing one or the other it was only after a moment she realized there was neither.

Slowly, the City Runner stopped in the shadow of the trees. It was fitting. So when she turned, she knew who it was before the [Witch] was visible in the shadows.

“You. How dare you?”

“Good night to you, Ryoka Griffin. I have business with you.”

Belavierr stood, her hat wide, her robes darker than the shadows around her. Her eyes did not glow. But the orange eyes and black rings still terrified under the moonlight. She was no immortal. Not anymore.

But she was still Belavierr. Ryoka reached for the bag of holding at her side. The Stitch Witch didn’t reply. Ryoka drew a weapon, then another. She shouted at the [Witch].

“I thought you were just—just different! Not evil. Not a monster. I’ve met immortals. And you’re the worst of them.”

“Indeed? Worse than Perril Chandler?”

“Who the hell is—”

Ryoka’s words died in her mouth. Belavierr smiled. She gestured to Ryoka’s face.

“You have met with him. I see the magic on your tongue. Faded. He is still alive. Good. He owes me a favor.”

The young woman paused. She stared at Belavierr. And then she shook her head.

“She will never forgive you. Wiskeria will hate you forever.”

The words were meant to hurt. But Belavierr’s smile just drank them in.

“Good.”

“Good? I thought you loved her! I thought she was your daughter?”

Ryoka howled at Belavierr. The Stitch Witch slowly shook her head. She watched as Ryoka circled her, tense. Belavierr replied calmly.

“I give my daughter purpose. I give her something.”

The City Runner spat.

“So that’s it. That’s all you want, isn’t it? Give your daughter something. And because she hates you—you can be whomever you want. Because you know your daughter cares.”

“Perhaps.”

Ryoka didn’t waste any more words. She just attacked. She threw the silver knife and lunged with the cross-stake made of wood. Belavierr took one small step and went around Ryoka. The knife missed, and Ryoka stumbled.

She whirled. Belavierr stood there, staring down at her. Ryoka raised the stake. And then she looked at Belavierr. She shook her head and walked past the Stitch Witch. She picked up the knife, stowed it and the cross. And she glanced over her shoulder.

“I can’t kill you. Not even the wind wants to pick a fight with you. So forget it. Go fuck yourself. I’m out.”

Ryoka raised two fingers and began to back up. She turned—and Belavierr was standing in front of her.

“You—”

This time, Ryoka’s fist hit Belavierr in the chest. But it felt like she’d broken it. Ryoka bent over. The Stitch Witch’s robes were as hard as steel! Belavierr calmly waited. Ryoka looked up, sweating, pale.

“How do you do that?”

“I am a master of stitchcraft. Once, I made Seven League Boots. Shoes aren’t much harder.”

The Stitch Witch’s matter-of-fact voice made Ryoka stare at her. The City Runner backed up.

“What do you want?”

Belavierr didn’t reply. She just stared at Ryoka. And then she smiled again.

“Would you like to know how to meet your friend?”

“Wh—”

This time, Ryoka’s breath caught. Belavierr’s smile widened.

“I heard you as he burned me. And you saw them. The strangers.”

Ryoka backed up. The fae. She’d heard her? She stammered.

“She’s gone. She’s been banished, and she’ll never, ever see me again. Ever. There’s no way she can defy her ruler.”

Belavierr tilted her head, still smiling.

“Even they have laws. Even they have a price. There is a way. And I know of it. Would you like to meet her again?”

See her again? Ryoka jerked her head, shook it rapidly.

“No. No, no, no—I won’t give you my life. Go away! Leave me alone!”

She turned to run. But there Belavierr stood. And the Stitch Witch stood over her. Her voice was inescapable. It whispered in Ryoka’s ear, ran through the forest.

“I don’t want your life. You are my daughter’s…friend. All I ask is something small. A little thing. Easy to pay.”

Ryoka knew she shouldn’t ask. She shouldn’t. But Belavierr wouldn’t let her go. So Ryoka asked.

“What is it?”

Belavierr told her. Ryoka went still.

“Just that?”

“Just that.”

“It won’t harm anyone?”

Belavierr only smiled. Ryoka gazed at her. It was so simple. But it could hurt people. She was sure of it. Somehow. Some way.

“But just think. You could see her again. Maybe even take her with you. They have rules. You will never see her again but for my help.”

Ryoka wavered. And she looked up into that terrible, knowing smile. And she looked at Belavierr as she raised her arm. Ryoka knew.

A [Witch]’s deal. It was funny. Everyone knew what the right answer was. Everyone knew, even in those old days. But that was the thing. The thing people forgot. When the devil reached out, he always offered the most important thing to you in the world. Nothing less.

Ivolethe.

Ryoka gazed up and wondered if this was how Tagil and Califor had felt. Standing before her, the Stitch Witch smiled. Her lips curved up, and if Ryoka looked closely, between the rings in Belavierr’s eyes, she could see damnation laughing at her.

Belavierr slowly held out one hand. Ryoka stared at it, and she thought of her dearest friend. Slowly, trembling, she raised her right hand and stared at the missing fingers. She peered into Belavierr’s eyes.

And she sighed.





6.48 T


“Toren? Toren. Where have you gone, you silly skeleton?”

A young woman called out cheerfully in an old inn. She stood by a table, turning left and then right aimlessly. She had a blank, vacuous look on her face. But her voice was clear.

“Toren! Get over here!”

At her words, a skeleton obediently trotted over. He was wearing a ragged apron, and he had a sword at his side. The young woman ignored both. She turned, and pointed.

“There’s some dirt over there. Someone made a mess. Maybe me. Clean it up, will you?”

The skeleton stared at her. Then he grudgingly walked over to a broom leaning against a table. Erin Solstice turned her back again and bumped into one of the few tables in the room as Toren went over to the tiny amount of dust and dirt and began sweeping it towards the entrance with the crude broom. Erin’s voice continued.

“And here’s another mess! Toren! I told you to keep the inn clean! Sweep this up too! And is that blood?”

She was indicating another splotch on the floor. The skeleton looked up, spotted the other messes, and redoubled his efforts. He swept the first patch of dirt out of the door and scurried over to the next. Erin wasn’t satisfied, though.

“You’re so slow. Honestly! This is why I hired Lyonette. I mean, even though all she does is complain and steal stuff. But to be fair, she never blew up my inn.”

She turned back to the table and bumped into it again. Toren’s shoulders hunched, and he paused in cleaning up the dirt. The action wasn’t missed by Erin, even though her back was turned.

“Hey! Get back to work, lazy bones! Clean up the mess! That’s what you’re good for! That’s all you’re good for.”

The skeleton’s head slowly rotated around on his shoulders. Two purple flames stared at Erin through the eye sockets of his skull. Erin, undeterred, kept speaking.

“What’s your problem? I’ve got places to be! Chop, chop! Clean up the mess!”

The skeleton threw down the broom and stepped on it. He snapped the thin handle and heard Erin gasp.

“How dare you! Toren! Clean that up right now and fix that broom!”

He ignored her. Toren advanced on Erin. She turned left, stared blankly at a wall. The furious skeleton circled around her, but Erin wouldn’t look right at him.

“Toren! I said clean up the—”

The sword cleaved Erin’s head open. Toren raised the blade, wrenching it out of Erin’s head as she jerked. Then he stabbed her through the chest.

Erin stumbled. But she didn’t fall. At last, her eyes focused on him.

“Toren? What—”

Toren yanked the blade free. He ran Erin through a second time. She still didn’t fall. And—she made no sound as he stabbed her. He did it again and again, piercing the pallid, rotting skin of her chest. And she was silent.

At last, Erin fell to the ground. Toren stood over her, silently staring at her open eyes, her gaping mouth. He wasn’t panting; skeletons had no lungs. And Toren was a skeleton. An undead creature brought back to life by necromancy. But he wasn’t mindless. In his head, he was…relieved.

He’d done it. Erin’s stupid voice and her stupid orders were done with. Forever. He’d killed her. Silenced her at last, as he’d fantasized about doing. She was dead.

Again.

Toren stared at Erin’s body. Then suddenly, he stumbled back. He dropped the sword, clutched his skull of a head in his hands. What had he done? He’d killed her. He’d—

Erin jerked back upright with a groan. She didn’t get up like normal people did; her feet found the ground, and she flopped upright without pushing herself up. It was an unnatural display of midriff strength few Humans could hope to equal.

Oh, and she also had half a dozen stab wounds through her chest. But she wasn’t bleeding. Her mouth gaped blankly at Toren, and her unfocused eyes stared right through him. She groaned. But it was more of an unconscious sound; zombies didn’t speak no matter how hard Toren tried to make them.

Toren stared at ‘Erin’ as the zombie of the young woman lurched upright unsteadily. A few maggots squirmed in her open mouth. The zombie lurched past Toren blankly, but Erin’s voice still rang in Toren’s head.

“Toren! You stabbed me! Rude! Now, go pick up that broom and fix it. And get rid of all this dirt! Did you hear me? I said—”

The skeleton warrior shook his head. He walked away from Erin, picking up his sword, and sat down at a table. The zombie Erin bumped into a table again, and the momentum carried her down onto it. Toren heard a crash as the flimsy wood broke. Zombie and table collapsed onto the ground. Toren whirled—

And the illusion fell apart. He stared around at the crude tables made of bits of wood held together with string or primitive nails. At the few chairs, which could barely support his weight, let alone an actual person’s. At the bar—a slab of wood on top of some rocks. At the ‘kitchen’, a metal door at the back, and the three doors that he’d created that led into this room. The stone walls.

This was not The Wandering Inn. And the zombie flailing uselessly on the ground wasn’t Erin. Toren was in the dungeon. Erin Solstice was dead. Months dead. He’d killed her. Left her alone in the snow outside a city far from her inn. And he was trapped in the dungeon. The skeleton buried his head in his hands. And he heard it closing in on him.

Madness.



——



It was just one small room in hundreds, thousands of others. A single spot in the labyrinth, the maze of Liscor’s dungeon. It was a tiny place, barely fortified by some crude doors. The inn had some tables, some chairs, a few bowls, and a barrel or two of ‘food’. And a skeleton and a zombie.

The zombie was just a zombie. It was a young woman’s zombie, and she had dirty and bloodied hair that might have been brownish once. She was—had been—Human and fairly young. She wandered about aimlessly, occasionally groaning, bumping into tables, chairs, walls, and the doors, looking for a way out.

The skeleton was different. He was not aimless. Everything he did had a purpose. And he could use doors. Sometimes, he left the inn. Sometimes, he came back. Always, always, he kept the three doors that lead out from the inn closed, lest the zombie escape and fulfill her vocation of trying to kill anything alive. And he seldom opened the fourth door that led into the back of the inn. The sturdy, metal door that led to the…kitchen.

There were a lot of sounds coming from behind the metal door. But the skeleton ignored them. He had a job to do. With one hand, he held a crude dustpan, which looked like a bit of iron armor flattened out into a funnel of sorts. Which it was. And in the other hand, he held the head of a broom.

Toren swept the stone floor, found a dustrag and a bucket of water and polished the floor, despite the water having tiny particles in it that made keeping everything perfectly clean impossible, and fixed up the broken table. The zombie lurched past Toren, groaning, doing that thing with her arms that was so trendy among zombies.

Toren ignored her.

He swept the floor diligently.

He polished the bar.

He didn’t open the door to the kitchen.

He stood blankly in a corner of the inn.

He stabbed zombie-Erin repeatedly.

He banged his head against the wall until his skull cracked and began to magically mend itself.

He lay on the ground.

He stabbed the giant fly-thing that tried to force its way into the room.

He cleaned up the blood.

He chopped up the fly thing and added it to the barrel of food. There were lots of maggots inside.

He swept the floor again.

And through it all, he wished—oh, how he wished—that he could go back in time. Because Toren was miserable. He was empty.

Erin was dead. And he was lost.

Not lost in a physical sense. Or even in terms of the dungeon. Toren didn’t know how long he’d been down here. He lost track, sometimes. The dungeon felt like a home to him, in a way. He knew the layout: he could navigate the threats of the dungeon, and he could pass through most areas without needing to see. Literally; the skeleton’s memory was flawless. But Toren seldom went out of the inn he’d built here. There was no point. All he wanted, the source of his misery and regret, was right here.

Well, sort of. Zombie-Erin lurched past Toren, and he stared at her. It wasn’t Erin’s body. He knew that. It was just some Human’s body he’d found among all the dead corpses. This one looked most like Erin. Well, she had. Now, she had a bunch of holes in her chest, and half of her head was sheared off. Toren might need to find another ‘Erin’ soon. But this one was good.

The skeleton waved a hand and felt a perverse sense of delight as the zombie obediently lurched over to him and halted in front of the table he was cleaning. That was one of his abilities. Commanding the undead. He could make the zombie-Erin run, hit things, lie down, or even pick things up, albeit clumsily. But he couldn’t make the zombie speak. Or think. Or—be Erin for him.

The zombie halted in place, staring aimlessly past Toren. Her mouth was open, and Toren saw something wriggling inside. He absently picked out the squirming worms out of the fake Erin’s mouth, tossed them into one of the snack bowls, and patted her on the head. A few hairs came out, and the zombie made an ‘urghfshh’ sound that was half-voice, half gas and liquid escaping from her deflated lungs.

“I’m sorry, Toren. I’d never get rid of you. I like you. You’re my favorite worker. Not like that jerk Lyonette.”

Erin’s voice echoed in Toren’s head. He stared at her and pointed at a chair. Zombie-Erin sat, with Toren’s help, and wobbled unsteadily in her chair. It creaked, but held. Toren stared at her. At Erin.

Slowly, tentatively, he sat next to Erin. He could hear her voice in his head. As bright and cheerful as always. A perfect replica of how the real Erin had talked. That was the problem with Toren’s memory. It was too perfect. He could remember Erin too well. It never faded.

It. Never. Faded.

Toren realized he was slamming his head against the table. He looked up. Erin stared at him, concern on her face. A maggot wriggled in her cheek.

“I really need you to keep it together, Toren. I rely on you for all kinds of stuff.”

Toren nodded. Sorry. He was just having a bad moment. He was always having a bad moment, now. He edged closer. Gingerly, hesitantly, Toren leaned against Erin.

The zombie tried to lurch away. Toren grabbed its hand and patted his skull with it. It was something he had seen her do to Mrsha. And the little Gnoll had smiled. The skeleton sat there, patting his own head with Erin’s hand. Then he gingerly hugged Erin.

The skeleton smiled, but not by choice. And his purple eyes dimmed slightly. The purple fire grew weaker. He didn’t feel better. He felt worse. The zombie moved, unconsciously trying to seek something to kill. Toren ordered it to hold still, and it did. But he knew it wasn’t really Erin.

Then he heard her voice again, whispering in the confines of his skull.

“You blew up my inn, Toren. You blew it up! You maniac! And you killed me. You killed me, and I’m dead, and you will never leave this dungeon ever again.”

Toren jerked. He leapt away from the table, and zombie-Erin fell to the ground as the chair holding her collapsed. Shaken, the skeleton stared at the zombie as she picked herself up. She hadn’t said anything.

It was all in his head. All in his head. Toren smacked his skull with his bony hands. And he felt terrible. Because after months, after so long, he could finally admit it: he wanted to go home. But he couldn’t. The dungeon was his prison.

Toren lacked a living person supplying him with mana. Without it, he couldn’t go above without running out of magical energy in minutes. And without magic, the spells giving him life would wither, and he would die. Anything short of that Toren could survive; in the mana-heavy environment of the dungeon, he was very, very hard to kill because his body would automatically repair itself over time.

Those were the facts. Toren had lost his old home, The Wandering Inn. His master, Erin, was dead. He’d killed her. Well, not directly, but he’d left her in the snow far, far from home. So it was his fault.

Around and around, the thoughts went. Toren couldn’t avoid them. He’d tried. He’d tried to replace Erin, remake the inn, even find a clientele in the dungeon. None of it had worked. Toren tried to cheer himself up by killing things with his sword, but he’d given that up, oh, about two zombie-Erins ago. What was the point?

He’d gotten tired of killing things for no reason. And that was the most shocking thing Toren could ever imagine in the world. But there it was. If you didn’t have a reason, killing things got boring after twenty thousand six hundred and fifty-one times.

Toren mechanically got back to work after a while of beating his skull with his hands. He bent down and fixed up the broken chair. The stupid furniture was always breaking. Unfortunately, Toren didn’t have much in the way of stuff to fix it with.

The current chairs and table were held together with bits of twine, strips of monster hide or sinew, and nails fashioned out of bits of metal. Toren was wrapping a bit of antenna or something around the chair, hoping it would keep the fragmented wood together, when he heard a sound.

A voice. The skeleton froze, and his hand darted to his sword. Another hand grasped at something at his side. A mask. The hand tried to place the mask on his face, but Toren forced it down. He waited, listening. Where…?

It wasn’t coming from one of the three ramshackle doors leading out of the inn. Toren relaxed. It wasn’t adventurers. Or Raskghar. Or Cave Goblins. Or those annoying little monsters that pretended to be children. In fact, it was coming from the metal door.

The kitchen. Toren paused. But curiosity slowly propelled him towards it. He hesitated, listening. There were definitely voices coming from the other side. More than before. The [Skeleton Knight] paused as he reached for the door. There was a bar on this door. He slowly touched it, then glanced around.

Zombie-Erin was nearby. Toren looked at her and then hurried her into a far corner of the inn. Then he came back over, unbarred the metal door, and opened it. Quickly, Toren went through and shut the door behind him.

It was dark in the ‘kitchen’. It wasn’t a kitchen. It was really just a large room, empty when Toren had found it. Now it was full. Of corpses.

Four thousand bodies. Well, four and a few hundred if you wanted to be precise. Raskghar. Human. Goblin. Drake. Gnoll. All of them were piled up, some practically to the ceiling in places. Rotting. Decomposing. And now—wandering about.

Toren gazed around the room. His fellow undead had moved at the sudden influx of light and lurched towards the door, but now that it was shut, they began wandering again. It was nearly pitch-black in the room. There was no light, save from the countless eyes, staring, shining with undead malice. No light. But there were voices.

“Doombringer.”

Toren jumped. Someone was talking in the darkness. He glanced around and saw a huge, hulking, distended figure. A monster twice as tall as he was with bones for teeth, eyes staring out of the mouth, black liquid dripping from its gaping maw. Huge ‘hands’. Legs made of other body parts.

A Crypt Lord. One of the more powerful breeds of undead. It moved more purposefully than the zombies and Ghouls around it. But it hadn’t made the sound. Toren peered around it. The Crypt Lord held its ground, staring past Toren at the door. There was something like intelligence in the way it stood, but not too much intelligence. Toren impatiently raised his hands to push it out of the way, then thought better. He meekly edged around the Crypt Lord and listened.

“…it be an end to all of us!”

A voice screamed. Toren jumped a foot in the air and bumped into a Ghoul. The undead staggered, and Toren sheepishly edged back. None of the other undead seemed to notice the voice. Toren moved forwards. And then he saw the speaker.

It was a Gnoll. He lay on his stomach, his head twisted up to stare blankly past Toren. He was dead; someone had broken his ribs, torn out his heart. But the Gnoll spoke. His lungs moved, and his voice was only slightly distorted by rot and death.

“Cursed Raskghar.”

Toren peered at the Gnoll. Then he stared at the thing that the Gnoll was connected to. Where the Gnoll’s legs should have been, Toren only saw a squirming mass of limbs. Fur. Elongated flesh. Heads. Hands, grasping. Legs. Faces. And more voices.

“Damn you.”

“Lord Veltras! The Goblins are—”

“Redfang!”

“Who are—”

“Not a Raskghar—”

A babble of voices, now, from the heads, the bodies twined together. Toren stared. There were hundreds of faces, all woven together in a…he eyed the thing. A mount of bodies. No, more like a tree. The ‘roots’ or ‘legs’ were torsos, like the dead Gnoll. The thing had limbs made of people. And in the center of it, rising up, was a pillar of flesh. Of heads. They were all parts of a whole, and they spoke.

Goblins. Humans. Gnolls. Drakes. Ooh! And a Raskghar. It just snarled, growling incoherently. But then, all the voices were nonsensical. Toren shook his head, listening. The Gnoll was speaking again.

“Doombringer. Doombringer.”

Who was he talking to? Toren wondered. They were words from his life, no doubt. The Gnoll tried to drag itself forwards, and all the hands and bodies nearby did the same. Toren jumped; the thing was moving. It was thousands upon thousands of pounds of rotting flesh joined together, but the sum of the parts allowed it to crawl forwards across the ground.

Toren studied the…thing. Hundreds of elongated corpses tangled together, hands grasping, heads moving. Staring at him. Uttering fragments like the Gnoll babbling his last words. He stepped forward and behind the mount of flesh, the entire creation as a whole. The undead collective. Toren turned his head. Next to it, another Crypt Lord had risen, and it was tearing at a lesser zombie, ‘eating’ it and absorbing the bones and flesh into its own makeup. Toren paused and then shook his head.

This was a complete failure. He sighed, stepped back as the flesh-pit tried to crawl forwards again, and scuffed backwards. He tried to order the mass of bodies not to crawl over him, but it ignored his commands. Just like the Crypt Lords. There were eight of them in the room—five more than last time. Hundreds of zombies already. Not any skeletons; all the bodies Toren had found were fresh, but a good number of Ghouls, too.

Toren pointed at one of them, a more agile, alert version of the zombie. It obediently bounded over to him; a corpse of a Raskghar, but before Toren could give it another order, he felt something else impose its will. The Ghoul paused, turned, and bounded back to the nearest Crypt Lord. Toren stamped his foot and glared at the undead commander. The Crypt Lord stared at Toren, and he felt a tug. It wanted him to follow it. Toren ignored the command and clattered his jaw furiously.

Failure! Another failure! He’d had such hopes for his room of undead! And he’d worked so hard to gather all the bodies! But instead of creating what he’d wanted—an army of undead he could control and maybe even some high-level undead for him to use—he’d created, well, high undead.

Crypt Lords. And whatever that flesh-pit thing was. They not only ignored Toren’s orders, but were capable of giving other undead orders. Case in point: each Crypt Lord had a retinue of over dozens of zombies and Ghouls that followed them around. Try as he might, Toren couldn’t ‘steal’ any of the undead; the Crypt Lords had more authority than he did. And worse, if he tried to poach a few bodies…

The Level 27 [Skeleton Knight] paused. He hadn’t leveled up much in that class; Toren didn’t do much killing these days. But he had another class. The purple flames in the skeleton’s eyes glowed brightly for a moment. He pointed, and one of the corpses lying in a small mound jerked and began to move. Toren saw it rise, saw the ghastly light appear in its eyes. A zombie Hobgoblin rose, and Toren clapped his hands delightedly.

Level 12 [Undead Leader]. [Command Lesser Undead]. That was another class he possessed and a Skill that allowed him to give orders to zombies and Ghouls and skeletons. But also—

[Raise Corpse]. The zombie lurched forwards. Toren beckoned to it urgently before one of the stupid Crypt Lords could steal his zombie. The zombie obediently stumbled forwards, and Toren motioned it to the door. He reached for the handle—

And the flesh-pit moved. A mass of hands rose, grabbing, and yanked the Hobgoblin zombie off its feet. Toren froze as he saw the zombie struggling, then going limp. The mass of corpses was drawing it in!

The flesh-pit picked up the zombie and pulled in into the writhing mass of bodies. Toren felt the zombie’s individual presence vanish. And the squirming pile of bodies was suddenly a bit larger. Toren stared at it. He heard a myriad of voices. A wail of dead bodies, echoing their life.

Toren scuffed at the ground with one bony foot. Jerk. It kept doing that. All Toren wanted was his army of zombies. But could he get even one? No…he could barely replace his zombie-Erin! There were all these…

The Crypt Lords were aimlessly walking the room, searching for a way out. Toren noticed one coming up behind him too late. He turned, and it reached for him with one huge hand. The skeleton tried to jerk away, but the Crypt Lord caught him. It raised Toren up as the skeleton struggled. And the many eyes in the thing’s mouth focused on Toren’s burning purple flames.

The skeleton froze. He felt the Crypt Lord’s mind pressing in on his. From that mind, Toren felt…an instinct. A thought magnified so loud it drowned out Toren’s sense of being. The Crypt Lord’s thoughts blasted through Toren’s skull.

DEATH.

It dropped him. Toren collapsed to the ground, stunned, the command still vibrating through his entire being. The Crypt Lord lurched past him, ignoring the skeleton in a moment. It grabbed a Ghoul, lifted it up, made eye-contact, dropped it. The Ghoul bounded into place in the Crypt Lord’s retinue. Toren kept lying on the ground. He didn’t feel like following the Crypt Lord around. Still, that had rattled him.

Toren got up after a bit. It was too crowded here. He glared at the Crypt Lord who’d picked him up. He knew it was probably a bad idea, but he was Toren! The strongest skeleton in the world! How dare the Crypt Lord pick him up like—like—like a common Ghoul?

The purple light in Toren’s eye sockets grew a bit brighter. He casually sidled past the undead following the Crypt Lord about. The undead commander was searching for another member of its army when Toren tapped it on the…back. The Crypt Lord turned, black blood dripping between its bone-teeth.

Toren plunged his sword into the Crypt Lord’s chest. The undead recoiled! Toren laughed silently. Hah! Take th—

The Crypt Lord smashed Toren into the ground with one massive hand. The zombies and Ghouls leapt on Toren, tearing his bones apart and smashing him flat. For about five seconds, the skeleton flailed with his sword—and then he was torn apart. The bones went flying as the Crypt Lord kept smashing the same spot and then stopped. It paused, then went about its business.

The skeleton’s bones lay there for a while, and the Crypt Lord moved past him, wandering aimlessly around the enclosed room. After a few more minutes, the bones began rolling towards the door. Toren furtively reassembled himself next to the door and crept back to pick up his sword. The Crypt Lord he’d stabbed ignored him. Toren lifted his sword, looked at the undead’s back, and thought better about it.

He hurried back to the door and pushed it open. The Crypt Lords turned as one, and the wailing from the flesh-pit grew louder. All the undead lurched for the door, and the nearest Crypt Lord reached out, trying to fit itself through the opening. It saw a skeleton in the way and ordered it to move aside.

Toren slammed the door in the Crypt Lord’s face and was rewarded with a satisfying thwack. The skeleton grinned and did a little dance in place. Idiots! So what if they could command more undead than he could and beat him in a fight? They couldn’t open doors.

He absently pushed the door closed all the way and slammed the bar down. Then he kicked it for good measure. The door made a satisfactory ringing sound, and Toren slapped one shin-bone, grinning. His good mood lasted all of eight seconds. Then he stared at the door and gloomily went back to the table. He sat down as zombie-Erin lurched past him.

Yep. That was a failure. Stupid undead. All Toren wanted were some Draug, not…bosses. And besides which…Toren sprawled out at the table like he’d seen Erin do.

So that was what other undead were like, was it? The Crypt Lord’s order still resonated in Toren’s soul. The skeleton thought about it. And he shook his head.

There was nothing there. Toren had seen a glimpse of the future in the Crypt Lord’s mind—a future it would bring about, what all undead would bring about given their natural instincts and time. And the world they would create was empty. An oblivion where the undead were all that remained. That was its purpose. And Toren, understanding that, came to another conclusion.

Undead were idiots. All except for him. The skeleton looked at zombie-Erin. He paused, then threw one of the snack bowls at her. It bounced off her head, and she staggered.

Yup. Idiots. All they wanted was to kill the living? What was the point in that? Toren paused. Well, obviously for fun, but all life? Every living thing until the world was silent and empty and nothing, not even insects, could reproduce? That was the stupidest idea he, Toren, had ever heard of. And he’d taken orders from Erin Solstice.

Death was boring. He should know. Life, now…Toren paused. He looked at zombie-Erin.

This was what Toren realized. It hit him like a snack bowl. Killing things was sometimes a bad idea. The skeleton’s jaw dropped off his skull. He had to pick it up and reattach it. But—he looked at the kitchen door. At zombie-Erin.

There could be no other explanation. He regretted killing Erin. He missed her. He wished she were back. Even though she was stupid. Even though she did things he didn’t like.

That was the thing. He didn’t know how he felt about her. Erin. She—had—made him angry. Given him orders he didn’t like. But Toren missed her. More than that, he needed her. He…wanted her not to be dead. Because she was annoying and stupid and he had to obey her.

But sometimes. Ah, sometimes. Sometimes, she sang, and the music still haunted him. Sometimes, she said ‘thank you’ or ‘good job, Toren’. And sometimes, she came up with things to do that were…fun. She had given him meaning and, in a way, life.

Protect Erin Solstice. Obey her. Be used in less-optimal tasks. Of all the people and animals and monsters and things in the world, Toren regretted killing only her. And he realized the scope of his blunder, his error now. She was gone. And death was timeless. The undead came for all things, and they were eternal, or close to it. Which made living things, finite things, more precious.

Or maybe just Erin. Toren was still hazy on whether other living things mattered. But Erin did. Because there had only been one of her.

These were the things Toren didn’t do. He didn’t bury his head in his hands. He didn’t weep. Or scream. Or hit the tables or himself, or curl into a ball or shake or shudder in pain. Because those were biological reactions. They didn’t help him. So he just sat. And hurt.

This was what Toren knew, too late. You couldn’t get something back when you lost it. It was a revelation for him, just the same way it was for anyone who loses something precious the first time.

The skeleton sat and was sad. Insanity gnawed at his mind. Madness and sadness. And as it got too much for him to handle, as he sank lower and lower, his hand moved. Toren tried to stop it. But he was too weak. And the mask, the mask hanging by his side came up. It covered his face, and he—

Was she. Toren sighed and relaxed and shook her head. She glanced around, realized she was naked, and stomped over to a pile of rags in the corner of the inn. Zombie-Erin watched blankly as Toren dressed herself. When she was done, she seemed like…a person. You could mistake her for a thin, female Human wearing a mask. Female Toren adjusted the cloth padding on one arm and shook her head.

Too long since she’d last been in charge. He liked moping around his inn too much. But she didn’t agonize like he did. She had something Toren lacked. Purpose. She left the bar behind, contemptuously stalking out of the illusion of the inn. She was so annoyed with him that she didn’t even bother closing the door. It would serve Toren right if something came along and ate his fake-Erin. And he’d probably go on a murderous rampage again or sit in a corner. But that was his time. She had other plans.

The skeleton disappeared from the inn. Zombie-Erin lurched around, not quite picking up on the fact that she could leave the inn yet. She wandered about, occasionally groaning.

After a few minutes, the door to the ‘kitchen’ opened slowly. The Crypt Lord pushing it open stared at the drop-bar that usually kept the room sealed. It hadn’t landed in the crude metal holster. The door opened wider, and the Crypt Lord stumbled forwards. The lone zombie in the inn gazed up as whispering voices filled the inn. Voices and movement.

Suddenly, there were a lot of…things coming out of the corpse room. Not just Crypt Lords, zombies, Ghouls, and flesh-pits, either. Something crawled down, made of many bones. Toren would have been shocked to know they were in the room. Because Toren, in the way skeletons and people often lacked spatial awareness, had never once decided to look up.



——



Anith, the Jackal Beastkin of Vuliel Drae had never once in his entire life thought to question what kind of stone Liscor’s dungeon was made from. It was not on his list of things to worry about, and as team leader of his eclectic group, he had any number of concerns.

“Granite?”

He politely stared at the Human woman holding the hammer and the pointed nail of metal in one hand. It looked like a nail—only about a hundred times bigger. She was angling it towards the slab of the floor, tapping it and frowning. Earlia, the Silver-rank Captain of the Gemhammer, glanced up and nodded.

“That’s right. Got to be. You can see just by the way it looks, obviously, but who’s going to make a dungeon out of anything less? What did you think it was?”

Anith blinked at Earlia. The Jackal [Mage] closed the spellbook he’d been studying and coughed.

“I must confess, I’ve never given it any thought. If you were to ask me, I would have assumed it was a…limestone?”

“Limestone?”

Earlia burst into laughter. She sat back on her haunches, away from the trap mechanism that was only three feet in front of her. Anith’s fur tried to stand up on end; he wasn’t so sanguine about their proximity to the trap. But Earlia kept laughing.

“Limestone. Hey, Timgal, Anith here thinks this dungeon’s made of limestone!”

Anith heard a guffaw from further down the room. The Jackal sighed.

“I only assumed—”

“What, that whoever built this dungeon wants it to wash away with the first rainstorm that hits it?”

Earlia snorted. She grabbed the nail of metal and hammer and leaned forwards again. She pressed the tip into the ground and began smacking the top with the hammer, trying to drive it into the stone. Anith, embarrassed, watched in silence. Earlia was hitting the wedge hard, without fear of smacking her gloved hand, but the pick didn’t seem to be penetrating the dungeon’s floor. With a sigh, Earlia growled and tossed the hammer behind her.

“It’s no good! Boys, we have to crack the enchantment before we can break the stone! Where’s my sledgehammer?”

She stood up, and the rest of her team, five more heavily armed and armored adventurers, walked forwards. Anith backed up politely against one wall of the passage to make room for them and the weapons they carried. They were all armed with picks, sledgehammers, or mauls, weapons that required a lot of brawn to swing. And the men and women had that in supply. Earlia nodded as she grabbed a sledgehammer.

“Alright. Me first. Anith, you step back. Watch your faces!”

The rest of her team stepped back, shielding their eyes and averting their heads. Anith gave them more space, not knowing why, and Earlia raised her sledgehammer.

“[Hammer Blow]!”

The first impact made a sound like thunder as metal hit stone. Anith clapped a hand over his sensitive ears and recoiled. The other adventurers, seemingly used to the sound, just waited. Earlia studied the patch of floor and scowled.

“Next!”

“My turn.”

The huge fellow named Timgal stepped forwards. He held a miner’s pick, and he swung it up and down, aiming for the same spot Earlia had hit.

“[Piercing Blow].”

His strike was less thunderous, but the crack was still sharp enough to keep Anith’s hands over his ears. He kept watching as Timgal stepped back, grunting and eyeing the spot to let another man step forwards with a maul. Anith watched the maul go up—

“[Power Strike]—”

“Watch your eyes, idiot!”

A hand blocked Anith’s vision right before he heard the crack of impact. This time, there was more than just the collision; he heard the stones breaking and felt something ping off the wall beside him. He jerked back as Earlia lowered her hand.

“What was—”

“Shrapnel. Hey! Keep a hand over your eyes and step back! All of you! Dead gods, haven’t any of you lot ever been around a mining operation?”

Earlia snapped at Anith and the adventurers crowding around behind her team. Anith turned. The rest of his team, Vuliel Drae, stared at Earlia and sheepishly shook their heads. So did he. Earlia sighed.

“Hands over eyes. Got it? We have helmets or we cover ours. You do not want to be hit by a bit of flying rock when we break the dungeon’s floor. That’s how you lose eyes, healing potions or not. Step back! Next! Fea, break open those tiles with your pickaxe! Blaik after her!”

The rest of Gemhammer took turns using their Skills. The sound of breaking stone was accompanied by a spray of fragments that kept Vuliel Drae covering their eyes until Earlia announced a break.

“Alright! Fifteen minutes, everyone! Then Blaik’s up with his [Power Strike]. Back to the other room—let’s keep working on that trap!”

The rest of her team trooped backwards, laughing good-naturedly and picking up the hand-wedges—the oversized nails of steel—and the smaller hammers. Vuliel Drae watched, bemused and confused.

“Wait, you’re giving up?”

Insill, the Drake [Rogue], stared at the patch of broken stone, perplexed. Earlia shook her head.

“Not at all. But we’re out of usable Skills. The rest of my team only has one, like Blaik’s [Power Strike]. We need to keep using them; we’ll never break the stones just by swinging our hammers.”

“Oh. I mean, of course. Sorry.”

The Drake nodded understandingly. Earlia smiled and jerked a thumb behind her.

“And while we do that, we’ll keep breaking down these trap-pillars. We already got the warding enchantment down; all we have to do is carefully remove the actual blades.”

She was pointing to the room behind them. Anith turned and looked at the trap-pillars. There were two in the room, and they were designed such that anyone carelessly entering the room would be instantly diced by the rows of curved blades that would spring from hidden compartments on each pillar. However, the activation mechanism in this particular trap room had been disabled, and now Gemhammer was methodically breaking down the granite stone to get at the trap.

“We’ll split our time between working with hand tools and using our Skills. Once we break the warding enchantment, we can use physical force. But we’ll still be at work for a few hours. At least. It’s a day’s job, really.”

Earlia sighed as she grabbed her own hand wedge and hammer. Anith nodded, impressed. He wasn’t the only one. Another member of his team, Dasha, the half-Dwarven woman, spoke up.

“That’s proper mining technique alright. Which I know about because of my ancestry. Your team’s not bad at manipulating stone, Miss Earlia. For Humans, of course.”

She stroked her beard self-importantly, ignoring the eye-rolling of the rest of her teammates. Anith sighed, but Earlia just laughed.

“We were [Miners], you know. It’s just that adventuring pays better, and it’s about the same level of danger. Anyways, if your team wants to watch…”

She looked at Anith meaningfully, and he nodded.

“Of course. Insill, Dasha, watch our way in. Pekona, Larr…”

“On guard.”

The Gnoll [Archer] and [Sword Dancer] Human, Pekona, both nodded and moved to cover the other entrance. Insill and Dasha walked past Gemhammer. They took up a casual guard so that both entrances were watched. Earlia nodded.

“Thanks, Anith.”

“Of course. You are paying us.”

The Jackal coughed again, a bit embarrassed. It was the first time his team had ever been hired to guard another adventuring team, but Earlia had asked, and he had agreed out of curiosity and a sense of obligation. The Captain of Gemhammer gave him a grin.

“I know it’s not much, but my team and I wanted someone to guard us for the first few times, just to see what kind of attention we attract. We’re loud, and we’ll have our hands full without posting a guard. Best case is that you pocket some silver, and all you have to do is stand about for a few hours. Worst case…”

She glanced at Larr and Pekona, leaning against their walls and keeping an eye out, and Dasha and Insill, probably arguing about her dubious claim to Dwarven knowledge. Anith sighed.

“Don’t worry. Despite how they look, my team is relatively alert. Larr and Insill will spot anything coming. But can we help in any way with, ah…”

He waved a hand at the traps Gemhammer was working on. They were in the trapped rooms, the first layer of Liscor’s dungeon. But unlike every other team that had tried to pass through this area, Gemhammer hadn’t been interested in advancing or clearing more trapped rooms. Instead, they’d insisted on finding rooms already de-trapped by other teams, like this one. Anith still wasn’t entirely sure what they were doing.

Earlia shrugged.

“If your team’s got anyone with [Power Strike] and a sturdy weapon, we could use you. Dasha’s the only one by the looks of it, and her axe is a bit…fragile. Don’t worry about it. We just need time, and we’ll start breaking the walls and floor. Clearly, we’re working with a dungeon-wide enchantment here. The big stuff. No room-by-room enchantment or mundane materials here.”

Her comment made one of the other adventurers glance up. Blaik wiped a bit of grime from his brow as he hammered the spike of metal into the stone pillar.

“What d’you reckon’s holding the place together? Dungeon-wide enchantment worked into the stones? That’s high-grade stuff, which is what I’d expect. Or does it have a locus of some kind?”

“What, like a dungeon heart? Hah!”

“As bad as limestone?”

Anith politely inquired. The rest of the former [Miners] snorted. It was Earlia who replied, shaking her head.

“If it is, it’s worse than limestone. Dungeon hearts or dungeon cores are terrible dungeon design. All one adventurer has to do is charge into the center and break whatever’s powering all the enchantments. Then the entire dungeon implodes or falls apart.”

“Ah.”

Anith had no idea that was a problem. But then—he wasn’t an expert on dungeons. And he was regretting it now. Earlia’s team had clearly done their research, and they were talking as they hammered at the trap. One of the women, Fea, was nodding knowingly.

“It’s not actually that bad to use limestone in a dungeon, Mister Anith. I mean, limestone’s soft, almost as bad as marble, but so long as it’s enchanted, that’s the trick. You can’t make many dungeons out of regular stone. It breaks down too fast—and if you get Crelers, Rock Mites, or half a dozen other monsters infesting your dungeon? Inside of a decade, it’ll be more porous than a sponge!”

She tsked, shaking her head over poor dungeon quality management. The rest of the [Miners] nodded. They were wearing gloves, and several had helmets on to shield their faces. Earlia’s voice was muffled as she put on a helmet and got to work beside her team.

“Don’t mind my team, Anith. We’re good at dungeons and rock-related stuff and nothing else. A new dungeon’s a great opportunity for us, especially now all this insanity with the Raskghar and so on’s died down. Still, no one’s taking chances.”

“Which is why you reached out to my team. May I ask why you wish to dismantle this room, though? I assumed it was already safe.”

Anith glanced at the trap pillar. One of the adventurers was carefully working a concealed metal blade out of the wall. Earlia chuckled.

“What? You mean you don’t know what we’re doing? There’s gold to be made—safely—by removing these traps. That’s what our team’s here for, and that’s how we’re going to make a fortune.”

“By removing…”

And then Anith saw Blaik pull one of the metal trap blades out of the wall. The man grunted, very carefully keeping his fingers away from the edge.

“Captain. Got one!”

“Good work, Blaik!”

Earlia chortled and raised her visor for a better look. She motioned Anith over, and he examined the blade. The [Mage] could tell there was an enchantment on the metal, but Anith’s understanding of magic wasn’t specialized in that area. He was certainly not about to touch it, though. Neither was Earlia. She grinned at the blade, seeming delighted.

“Beautiful. See? Gold. Just lying here! I can’t believe the other teams aren’t trying to compete with us. Let alone the teams that actually did the de-trapping! I asked Halrac before he left, but he said we were free to have at it. Either he’s an idiot or the rumors are true and he came away with a huge score.”

Anith’s paw tightened on his spellbook. Halrac, Captain of Griffon Hunt. And one of the people who knew Vuliel Drae’s disgrace. He bowed his head, but then moved on.

“Perhaps. I had heard that he ran into some good fortune. Well-deserved, I think, if so. But why would he be interested in…?”

He indicated the metal blade. Earlia eyed him strangely.

“It’s enchanted, Anith. You’re telling me you don’t think we could sell this?”

The Jackal Beastkin paused.

“Oh. Of course. But who would buy…?”

Earlia shook her head, tapping the metal.

“Enchanted metal, nice quality, very fine edge—I’d say forty gold pieces per blade? Unless it’s enchanted with some really keen enchantment, in which case it could be worth ten times that. We’ll have to see—hey! Anyone got something to cut with this thing?”

“I have a mutton leg. Let me eat it.”

One of the other adventurers fished out a snack. After carefully stripping the meat from the bone, he handed it to Earlia. She lifted the bone and chopped at it with the blade. Both she and Anith whistled; the trap blade had gone straight through the bone and marrow. Earlia nodded, satisfied.

“Yup. That sliced through the bone like that. I’d say we can get at least six-fifty on each blade.”

“Six—”

Anith inhaled sharply. Larr turned his head, blinking. Earlia grinned at the expression on Anith’s face.

“Six hundred and fifty gold pieces. That’s right.”

“For just one of those?”

Incredulously, Anith pointed at the second trap blade Fea was working out of the pillar. Earlia nodded.

“Well, we’re reselling them, not melting them down or repurposing them, right? If it was magical glyphs or something, the dust or inscriptions are worth a lot less. But magical blades are magical blades. Hells, you could even put this on a polearm and have yourself, what, a Gold-rank weapon? Nah, but a good Silver-rank one. See why we’re so interested in these traps?”

Anith did. He gulped and hesitated.

“Is it wise to tell us this? And who would you sell these blades to? A [Blacksmith]?”

“Just a regular [Merchant] who deals in this kind of stuff. You’d be surprised how many people are willing to pay for dungeon-grade traps. Anyways, it’s not like we’re going to hide what we’re doing. If any other teams want to take a crack at removing the traps, feel free. But it’s dangerous and difficult. Not sure how well your team would do.”

Earlia nodded to Vuliel Drae without rancor. Anith sighed. It was true. His team was specialized for a fight, or maybe defusing traps, but not breaking through stone and enchantments to get at them. But if they could hire a [Miner]…he eyed Earlia’s team and sagged. That was why there was an entire team of former [Miners], wasn’t there?

“Don’t take it too hard. You can make your fortune by finding treasure and collecting monster parts. Each to their own.”

Earlia grinned and patted Anith on the back. He gazed somewhat dourly at her beaming face, but relented.

“As long as you’re paying us for guard duty. I’m tripling our fee next time.”

“Bastard.”

The Human woman laughed. Anith smiled and stepped back as another blade joined the first in a pile. Earlia went back to her pillar and began hammering at the stone, breaking pieces loose.

“We got the idea from the Horns of Hammerad and Miss Erin, actually. If a door they found in a dungeon can transport people a hundred miles, how much would all this be worth? Hey, you idiots, don’t fool around with those blades! You drop one on your hand and you’ll lose the hand!”

She snapped at her team and turned to Anith.

“So, Anith, how’s your team doing? Don’t tell me you’re that jealous of us; your team was the first to find treasure in the dungeon after all. You made out like [Bandits], right?”

Earlia’s comment took in the rest of Vuliel Drae standing watch. Anith paused and looked around. Insill, Larr, Pekona, and Dasha all peered back at him with expressions ranging from guilt to wariness. Earlia didn’t see; she was still working. After a moment, Insill coughed.

“We, uh, we’re doing alright. Yeah, we got really lucky. We found that mace on the first Raskghar. Gold-rank gear. Sold for a lot. And after that…”

Vuliel Drae glumly eyed each other. Oh yes. After that. Their career as adventurers working around Liscor had been meteoric at first. They’d found treasure in Liscor’s dungeon—a Gold-rank weapon worth thousands of gold coins! And they’d encountered a mysterious adventurer who’d given them her aid. Confident—overconfident—Vuliel Drae had kept exploring and inadvertently been the cause of the Face-Eater Moth attack on Liscor.

It was a fact few people knew. The Gold-rank teams, the Halfseekers and Griffon Hunt, who’d uncovered the truth, had decided it was best no one but Liscor’s Guildmistress and a few others know. Not out of sympathy for Vuliel Drae, but to prevent the outcry against adventurers and to keep the Silver-rank team from being lynched.

But Vuliel Drae had paid for their mistakes. From drudge work assigned to them by Tekshia Shivertail to a permanent warning on all of their records in the Adventurer’s Guilds’ private files—Anith had no idea that was even a function of the guilds—their team was still haunted by their mistake.

Justly so, in Anith’s opinion. The Jackal Beastkin had a strong sense of justice that came from his tribe, and he considered their disgrace the least of the debt they owed society. However, the topic was still touchy, and the silence from the rest of his team lingered long enough that Earlia looked up.

“What, the mace you got wasn’t worth as much as you hoped? Or did you sell it to the wrong [Merchant]?”

“Neither.”

Larr folded his arms. The taciturn Gnoll glared at nothing in particular, his ears lowered. Pekona, the dour woman from the Drath Archipelago, just gazed down, scowling. Anith cleared his throat hurriedly.

“We sold it by way of Invrisil. The money finally got to us by way of Courier, along with some of the equipment we ordered.”

“We could have done Pallass—”

Insill grumbled under his breath. The lone Drake in the group had voted for that. Dasha rolled her eyes. Earlia frowned.

“You got your goods via Courier? Isn’t that a waste of gold?”

“Not at all. Apparently, if you’re rich, the [Merchants] will send you a…what did they call it, Anith?”

“A catalogue, Dasha. They even paid for the Courier’s fees.”

“For what we spent, of course they did!”

Earlia whistled.

“They must have heard you had money to burn! That’s fancy. Free Courier deliveries? That explains your gear.”

She nodded to Vuliel Drae. Anith smiled a bit. He was wearing new robes. Not the best money could buy, but better than the common cloth enchanted with a weak stain-resistance spell. And Dasha had upgraded her axe to a mithril-alloyed metal she swore was ten times better. Larr had a few enchanted arrows, Pekona had a scroll at her belt, and Insill had enchanted armor and weapons. It wasn’t a huge upgrade, but it had moved them up the Silver-rank hierarchy a bit. Earlia nodded.

“How much do you have left, if you don’t mind sharing?”

There it was again. Vuliel Drae paused, and Insill piped up nervously.

“We donated some of it. It, uh—the thing is—”

He hesitated, guilt written across his face, and Dasha elbowed him.

“Shut up!”

She hissed at the Drake. Anith coughed.

“We donated some of the money to the victims of the Face-Eater Moth attack.”

“Oh? That’s generous of you. I mean, yeah. I suppose we owe Liscor something. Huh. I don’t know if my team would be down for that.”

Earlia frowned absently, glancing at her teammates. Anith took that moment to give Insill a warning look. Both Pekona and Larr did the same, and the Drake [Rogue] bit his lip. His tail thrashed guiltily, but he said nothing more.

Secrets and guilt. It wasn’t what Anith wanted. This wasn’t why he’d left his home in Chandrar. But it was what fate had brought to his team, so he could only steer them with dignity and integrity from here on out. While Anith had wrestled with his shared guilt, he had concluded that telling other people what his team had done would cause nothing but harm. So he signaled to Dasha to drag Insill further down the hallway and let the conversation die out.

It was boring work watching Gemhammer slowly dismantle the trap and occasionally use their Skills to begin breaking down the next room. Anith didn’t even understand why they were interested in the next room—it was designed to cremate anyone alive, a ‘classic’ trap made more sinister by the fact that the spell didn’t shoot flames or slowly warm the room—it would explode in a fireball of air instantly. That was until he saw Gemhammer carefully removing the actual spell-trigger.

“You see, to write magic runes, people have to use some kind of dust or paint or whatnot. We can scrape it off if no one wants to buy the runes. It can be worth a bit or a lot, again, depending on if we can sell it wholesale without scrapping it for the dust. But the real treasure in a trap room like this is—aha! Magicore!”

Earlia crowed as her team cracked one of the walls and exposed a thin tube of oozing liquid. The [Miners] scrambled for jars, scraping the precious, fiery molten stone into them. Anith could feel the heat of the stuff from here. Earlia crowed in delight.

“Fire-elemental magicore. No wonder the trap room heats up so fast! Do you have any idea how much we can sell this for?”

Vuliel Drae glumly watched as the exuberant [Miners] began talking about potential buyers. Earlia waved a hand, shushing the lot.

“Stop yakking and get to work! This is great, but also bad. The instant we start selling this stuff, we’re going to have competition. More teams are going to make a beeline for this dungeon to strip the traps, so every hour we have on them is more gold we pocket! Less talking, more mining! Anith, can I convince your team to keep this all secret for a bit of gold…?”

“Sorry, Captain Earlia. But you’ll have competition soon enough. I’m not certain we can compete with a [Miner] team as efficiently, but with the door open to Pallass, you can bet we’re hiring our own specialists.”

A feathery Garuda appeared in the far hallway. Earlia jumped, and Anith whirled. Insill and Dasha waved at him as Bevussa Slenderscale, the Gold-rank Captain of the Wings of Pallass, strode into the room. Technically she was just a Gold-rank adventurer, but it was an open secret that she was the de facto leader of her team among the adventurers in Liscor. But Captain or not, it was her Gold-rank status that had both Vuliel Drae and Gemhammer turning to respectfully greet her.

“Miss Bevussa. What brings you here?”

Anith bowed respectfully towards Bevussa. The Garuda smiled at him and nodded back. She walked lightly, eying the [Miners] trying to hide the fiery magicore behind their backs and swearing as it burned their gloved hands. Earlia looked a bit nervous as she turned to the Garuda.

“Captain Bevussa, we were just—”

“Stripping the dungeon? I’m not trying to intrude. It’s no one’s territory since the original teams are gone. Don’t worry.”

The Garuda opened her beak, amusement in her voice. Earlia relaxed a bit, looking embarrassed.

“Sorry. Sometimes in other dungeons—”

“It’s no problem. And you won’t have to worry; there’s a system for claiming areas you’re working on. It’s still first to eat the worm, but Gold-rank teams can’t order you to abandon this spot. Am I intruding?”

“Not at all. We were just finishing—hey! Start packing that magicore! Bags of holding—one jar apiece! What can we do for you, Captain?”

The Garuda nodded at Anith and Earlia.

“I wanted to find you two. I’m letting all the Silver-rank teams and Gold-ranks know that we’re doing a coordinated push into the dungeon again today.”

“Again? That’s the third time this week!”

Earlia looked startled. Anith just nodded slowly. Bevussa shrugged.

“It’s just for teams who have the energy. My team does, and Keldrass’. The more teams who go in, the safer. Usually. Let us know if you’re coming; it’s in three hours, and we’re hoping to push into that Bagrhaven area. There’s a buyer for their feathers in Pallass.”

“Oh! Well, if it’s Bagrhavens—no thanks. Our team will stick right here. Anith, we can manage without you and pull back to a spot near the entrance. What do you say?”

The Jackal rubbed at his finely-furred chin. He looked at his team, taking in their opinions in a glance, then nodded.

“If Earlia won’t object, I’d be pleased to take a position in the push, Captain Bevussa. We’d like to do something active today.”

The Garuda nodded.

“We’ll put you on the list, then. Oh, and you’re paying a fee to the Lifwail Blades. They’re holding the back lines and acting as emergency backup in case of Raskghar or that Facestealer thing strikes again.”

All the adventurers present shuddered. Liscor’s dungeon had been purged of some of the main threats, including the Face-Eater Moths and Raskghar, but there was always something else. Over a dozen adventurers had already been found headless, killed by the last guardian of the dungeon.

Anith knew the team on standby was good, able to fight at range, contrary to their names, but the thought of running into Facestealer was horrifying, even if Anith only had his imagination and Calruz’s and Ceria’s words to go by.

Still, you could earn a lot of gold from a single day in the dungeon. And if you found a truly great treasure haul? You’d be set for life. That was the calculation every adventurer made.

Bevussa’s voice was brisk as she looked at Anith. If she was afraid of Facestealer, she gave no sign of it.

“Remember, three horn blasts and you run for the exit. That means Shield Spiders are coming in waves. One long blast—”

Anith interrupted crisply, trying to keep his voice level.

“Facestealer. We remember. Do you think we can trap him, Captain Bevussa?”

The Garuda frowned.

“Maybe? He’s never taken the bait so far, but that thing doesn’t strike often according to…the Minotaur. And we’ve got Gold-rank teams. If we run into him, we’ll pin him down and melt him at range. That’s the plan, but I’d rather stick to monsters I know are down there. See you in three hours.”

She nodded to Anith and Earlia. Then she beckoned towards the Jackal, and he followed her down the tunnel. Insill and Dasha stepped back, and the two had a quiet conversation.

“One more thing, Anith. Since Halrac’s gone and we assumed the Halfseekers were leaving, I was informed along with Keldrass about the Face-Eater Moth incident…”

Anith’s heart began beating faster. He opened his mouth, and Bevussa put a wing-hand on his shoulder.

“Don’t say anything. Guildmistress Tekshia informed us. It’s important to have some Gold-rank teams in the field who know about any…problems. I’m honestly not worried. You make a mistake, you pay the price. You’re not going to try destroying any nests again without contacting us, right?”

“Of course not, Captain Bevussa.”

The Garuda nodded briskly.

“I don’t have a problem with that. What I do want to know is if you have a way to contact the other adventurer. You know? The Masked Warrior?”

Anith started.

“She’s still been seen below? My team hasn’t been in the dungeon proper for a while. We assumed…”

Bevussa nodded.

“A few teams see her now and then. Human, wears a mask? Lends a hand to teams that get attacked? Never says a word? The Guildmistress wants to talk to her. So do our teams. I know the Face-Eater thing was an accident, but anyone who’s survived that long would be valuable to know. And it’s also risky having someone wandering about who might trigger an attack. We sealed the Shield Spider nest again, but…”

She trailed off meaningfully. Anith nodded.

“We do not have a way to contact her, but she has found our team most of the times we entered the dungeon. If we see her, we’ll let you know, Captain Slenderscale.”

“Just call me Bevussa. Thanks, Anith.”

The Garuda smiled. She left, and Anith watched her go, a bit breathless. Now there was a Gold-rank Captain that he aspired to be. The Wings of Pallass were a good team, and Bevussa felt reassuring to him. He looked over as Insill and Dasha approached. The Drake bounced on his toes as he looked towards his leader.

“What did she want, Anith?”

“Hm. Well, she knew about the moths…Larr. Pekona!”

Anith signaled them, and Vuliel Drae converged for a quick meeting. Larr had, of course, heard it all, and the Gnoll was fretful. The rest of the team was nervous.

“Wait, how many people know what we did?”

Insill looked panicked. Dasha slapped him on the shoulder.

“Everyone you told, idiot! I said we should keep it secret. And now that masked woman’s in trouble? Good! I say she deserves a lot of the blame!”

“She didn’t know any more than we did. We thought we were getting rid of a nest—”

Insill protested hotly, blushing a bit. The half-Dwarf woman rolled her eyes.

“You’re just saying that because you want to get in her pants!”

“I never said—”

Pekona frowned at Dasha.

“If it wasn’t for her, we wouldn’t have survived the first time in the dungeon! We owe our lives to her! Be respectful.”

She glared, the accented words coming out slowly. Dasha folded her arms. Larr growled.

“If she made a mistake, she made a mistake, yes? The other teams should be curious of her. If it is just talking, let them. I am curious of her as well. She always smells of so much blood. She must be killing monsters constantly to survive. That is a strange person, no?”

Pekona played with a tassel hanging off the handle of one of her swords, voice defensive.

“Some adventurers are like that. She saved our lives—”

“If she doesn’t have a beard, she’s untrustworthy!”

“Shut up, Dasha!”

Anith raised a paw for silence. His team looked at him.

“No one’s asking us to turn her in. Our…friend has been the source of much of our luck. And some of our misfortune, it is true. But we owe her our lives. If we see her, let us try to honor Captain Bevussa’s wishes. But most of all, let us be careful.”

Vuliel Drae nodded. They looked at each other, annoyed, disagreeing—but a team. Not the best team in the dungeon. But not the worst. And they’d be better. They checked their gear and prepared to go into the dungeon, to risk their lives for fame and wealth and power. That was the adventurer’s calling.

And then they glumly watched Gemhammer making easy money for three more hours. Some teams had all the luck.



——



This was what the skeleton saw. Toren wandered the dungeon, a skeleton in the darkness, a shadow in the night. Or maybe it was day? It didn’t matter. She was in charge. And Toren was a lot more proactive than he was.

She asked the questions he never did. Why was there a dungeon here? What was it hiding? What secrets were there yet to uncover? All he did was think of Erin. But that was their duality. She enjoyed seeking the answer to the question more than the answer itself would bring her. So she flitted from space to space, sword in hand, gliding across the floor, avoiding traps.

Rarely fighting monsters. That was the thing. Toren was a skeleton. As such, half the monsters she encountered didn’t attack her because there wasn’t anything they wanted. Bones weren’t very nutritious and she didn’t smell of succulent flesh or blood. And the other half didn’t even seem to see her. They walked past Toren, as if she wasn’t there.

Of course, Toren could choose to fight them, but she preferred to save her energy for the battles that mattered. Thus, the skeleton spent most of her time investigating new parts of the dungeon. She would carefully investigate a corridor, following trails left by monsters, eying suspiciously clean parts of the dungeon. Occasionally she’d step on a trap and have to reassemble herself, but mostly she explored.

See—here came a Flesh Worm. A sinuous, crimson worm, as tall as…Toren stared up and up and backed away as the gargantuan worm-monster swept down the dungeon. It had two long, ‘arms’ with palps that could snatch flesh off a body. And like the Crypt Lords, it had a trail of undead. Toren eyed the escort of zombies and decided here was an opportunity.

She meekly fell into line behind the trailing undead. Some of the zombies paused, but Toren’s appearance didn’t matter. She was a skeleton and they were zombies, so they had little reaction to her. The Flesh Worm never noticed as it slithered forwards. Toren followed it down the corridor.

She was careful not to attract the Flesh Worm’s attention. They couldn’t control her any more than the Goblin [Shaman] could. Not anymore. But even so, Toren didn’t like them trying to impose their will on her. Worse still, if the Flesh Worms failed, they would immediately attack her with the rest of the undead following them.

And where were they going? Let’s see. The four ‘nest silos’ full of monsters led up to the teleporting trap rooms. And from the nests the labyrinth worked its way inwards, past designated habitats for monsters, natural springs of water that held aquatic things—Toren wasn’t willing to try diving again in case she was dragged down and stuck forever—leading ever inwards, past those odd places where all the food was.

The same food he was so obsessed with getting to stock his fake inn with. He’d gotten them crushed and ‘killed’ eight times trying to fight monsters for the food that appeared in designated rooms, only to learn that it disappeared after a few hours!

Anyways. Toren huffed along, and realized the Flesh Worm was moving inwards, towards the center of the labyrinth. The skeleton paused as she heard the clank of metal ahead. She peered past the Flesh Worm as it turned and saw it.

A suit of armor. The enchanted metal warrior walked past the Flesh Worm, ignoring it and the undead. The Flesh Worm contemptuously slithered past it. Toren stared. This was further than she often went.

This was enchanted armor territory. They occupied the inner part of the dungeon, mostly, guarding the city filled with the…people. The ones with holes in them and no skin. That was the most dangerous area; the traps got worse and worse the closer in you got, and the patrols of enchanted armor and Flesh Worms and other monsters were nastier and more frequent around there.

The inner city was relatively fine by comparison; it had no traps or monsters. The only real problem was that that the horde of those Infested people would tear anything apart and Toren had no desire to recollect her bones over the period of a week again after being scattered nearly a mile wide.

The Flesh Worm was moving straight through the armor’s territory without fear, though. Toren wondered if the creature was insane. But Flesh Worms were intelligent. Dangerously so. If it thought it was safe…Toren turned, looking around. These corridors were taller! And the fortifications—she saw suits of armor standing guard, and the Flesh Worm had to slither between defensive lines. Some of the enchanted suits of armor carried bows! They were prepared for a war!

This was a part of the dungeon Toren had never seen. She’d never been close enough; the armor would smash her to bits. No wonder no one had ever taken the inner part of the dungeon, Raskghar or not—fighting the armor on their home ground was suicide. There were constant patrols of them. Toren kept right behind the Flesh Worm with the undead. And it kept going further into their territory!

Now there was clanging. A glow in the darkness. Toren paused, and then hurried after a zombie. She tripped it up so the line of undead behind her would slow and stared at what lay beyond.

Forges. Battered suits of armor were slowly being repaired, the dents hammered out, steel patched onto steel. An armory of weapons and armor, the latter enchanted with life. They stood in rows, silent, some moving off into patrols or war bands. But the rest ominously still. Silent. Rows upon rows of them. Toren stared until a zombie bumped into her from behind. Then she jumped.

The Flesh Worm turned. It hissed in displeasure as it saw the undead following it hadn’t kept up. It swung one tail—Toren saw it shear through a zombie’s neck. She edged backwards as the Flesh Worm continued onwards and moved to the back of the line. Just in time to see the nearest suit of armor pause with hammer in hand as it repaired its brethren.

The suit of armor stared at her. Toren froze, and then put her arms out. She walked forwards, trying to open her mouth and groan. Then she remembered she didn’t have any flesh. The suit of armor stared at her, masked, wearing clothes, and the nearest zombie.

The enchanted automaton had nothing like actual intelligence. Even so, it processed Toren for a few more seconds before slowly walking past her. It must have sensed her undead presence, or else it had fallen for her act. Toren followed after the train of undead and Flesh Worm, metaphorically sweating.

And then she saw it. Standing at the head of the legion of armor on a pedestal of its own. So still, so unmoving that spiders had built cobwebs that appeared to anchor it to the ground. But the creation’s eyes burned. It still had presence. It waited, sword and shield in hand. And as the Flesh Worm and the entourage of undead moved through the grand assembly room, the general of the legion of enchanted armor slowly looked up. Its head turned and Toren saw a flash of something like intelligence from the burning lights in its helm.

A guardian of the dungeon. Toren froze. She stared at the General of Armor or whatever it might be. It stared at her, and then the Flesh Worm. Slowly, it moved. Spiders fled and the cobwebs broke as it raised a sword and pointed at her. Without words, without life, in truth. But with ancient duty.

And as one, the legion of enchanted suits of armor turned. Toren froze. The Flesh Worm paused, and then whipped around. It stared at Toren. She looked at it. She looked at the Armor General on his pedestal. She waved a hand. And then she ran for it.

Arrows flew. Enchanted armor charged at her, and the Flesh Worm shrieked as it and the undead raced after Toren. She fled, waving her arms and clattering her jaw indignantly. It wasn’t like she was trying to—

A hammer smashed her skull in and the skeleton collapsed. Her bones rolled onto the floor and the enchanted armor smashed them to powder. Toren held very still as the alarm ended. After a while, the magic in her bones slowly returned her form. The cracks sealed, the powder reformed. Toren got up, adjusted her clothes, and stomped off in a huff.

That was how she spent her time in the dungeon. She was different than he was. He lacked something she did. Well, she lacked it too, but she knew it was lacking. It was the same thing, only there was a trace of it in her still. A distant memory. Sometimes, it was faded, and she, like he, only understood death. Killing. Leveling. A mindless pursuit. But other times she saw something. And that part of her woke up.

See.

The Antinium sent an army into the dungeon sometimes. A few hundred, or sometimes thousands, to cut down as many monsters as possible, or—Toren suspected—to map parts of the dungeon they didn’t know. They did it by sacrificing dozens of Antinium for each step. The monsters would pour out from every corridor and the Antinium would charge on, through traps and ambushes until there were none left.

Toren didn’t know what the purpose of this outpouring was. She only knew it when she saw it and felt it. She heard the thrumming of thousands of feet, heard the sounds of violence. And she felt the dungeon moving, changing, reacting to the threat.

Flesh Worms slithered down the corridors. Dens of monsters, agitated, poured out. Traps exploded and unleashed their wrath. The armored legions poured forwards, as unending as the Antinium. Toren hurried down the corridors, ignored by the monsters, peeking around corners.

She saw them. The Black Tide, sweeping forwards. Fighting. Dying. Soldiers and Workers, grappling with monsters, tearing them apart. Nameless Soldiers. Those without paint.

But people, still.

Toren paused. Why had she thought that? She stared at the Antinium. They were fighting, dying. And Toren, both Torens, were amazed by the battle. The Soldiers refused to die easily. They dragged their opponents down with them. If it took a hundred Soldiers to bring one Flesh Worm down, or hundreds, they paid that price. They were grouped up, fighting in narrow corridors, unable to surround their opponents.

But they did not yield. They advanced. And he reveled in the slaughter. He laughed at the death, the spectacle of it. She? She saw something else. Something more that she tried to show him.

Look at how they died.

The thousands fell away. The corridors were filled with blood. The Soldier’s green. The Workers retreating, dragging bodies back to the Antinium Hive. But the Soldiers continued on. They had no home to return to. They had only one last order.

From thousands, they were hundreds. She watched them fighting, bringing down nearly a dozen Flesh Worms, a score of undead, battling through exploding larvae, until the Shield Spiders poured through the tunnels, destroying everything in their wake. Toren and the last Antinium fled. And she watched them fall.

Twenty three. And then sixteen. Nine. Five. And then, two. The last two Soldiers ran, fleeing the Shield Spiders that stopped to drag the corpses of their brethren back to their nest. The other monsters halted their pursuit as well. They had much to eat, or wounds to nurse. Even the enchanted armor seemed fed up with the slaughter. They marched back towards their garrisons.

Leaving the two Soldiers alone. There they stood. Worn. Bleeding. Dying. The dungeon surrounded them. They would never return. They could not. They had been sent to die, to strike a blow at the dungeon. So the Soldiers had been dead the moment they charged.

In the silent corridor, the two Soldiers stopped. The Soldiers stood, bleeding green, looking around wildly. But they had a reprieve. The spiders had fled. Something else was coming, summoned by the massive incursion into the dungeon.

The Soldiers paused. They turned to look at each other and lowered their fists. They stopped. And one of them made a clicking sound. The skeleton watched, her eyes seeing all. And what she saw next spoke to that spark in her.

One Soldier opened his mandibles. Closed them. He made a click. And it was soft. The other Soldier paused. And then it went click. What they said—if they were even words—Toren had no idea. But then the Soldiers stepped forwards each other.

They grasped each other, clumsily. All four arms of one, and three arms and a stump of the other. Toren thought they were trying to kill each other. But then she saw one step. Slowly, his hands on the other Soldier’s shoulders and waist. And the other stepped with him. In perfect sync.

They moved slowly, in a halting, rhythmic pattern. A swaying tracery on the floor. Turning, pausing. Twirling.

And Toren saw, amid the faint glow and death, the way they moved had a purpose. And she realized it was a dance. The Soldiers held each other, the last two in their world. And they moved. Not with the desperate last energy of the dead, but with dignity. With grace.

They waltzed, dancing in the dark corridor in the elegant style of a Terandrian ballroom. And Toren saw it all.

He didn’t want to see. He didn’t understand. But she saw. And it called to her. Toren turned her head. The dungeon had gone silent.

It was coming. So the skeleton stood from where she was crouched. She drew her sword and advanced slowly.

The two Soldiers stopped dancing as soon as they noticed Toren. They whirled, bringing up their fists. Toren held up her sword, her palm open, pleading. They stared at her, wavering. And then Toren felt it.

She turned her head. And there it was. A staring head poking around the corridor on a stick. Toren whirled. She pointed. The two Antinium Soldiers hesitated as she turned and lifted her sword. She pointed again.

Go.

They hesitated. And then they ran. Toren charged. And Facestealer was there. It looked down at her. The bag of heads it carried trailing behind. The heads on sticks clutched in one hand, a grotesque collection. Toren raised her sword and leapt forwards. Not for victory; she knew that all too well. But for something else. For—

…

It took her a long time to come back from having her skull and bones crushed into powder. At last, Toren got up. Her mask was broken. Her clothing torn. She found some dead spiders nearby and managed to fix the mask, at least. Her sword was lying on the ground, for all the good it had done. Then the skeleton looked around. She was afraid of what she would find. But she did look.

She found them two corridors over. The two Soldiers lay where they had died. Their heads were missing. The skeleton knelt next to them for a very long time. She bowed her head. And she felt…as terrible as he did when he thought of Erin.

And then Toren noticed one thing. The two corpses on the ground were identical. Not in every way of course; both had different wounds. But both were missing heads. And both had four arms.

One of the Soldiers had been missing a hand. Toren looked up. She looked around. She searched. But she never found another pair of Soldiers, or one with a missing hand. Maybe the monsters had gotten them. Or maybe…

The skeleton smiled. And she had a winning grin. She stood up and stretched. She twirled amid the death and laughed silently. They both sought it, each in their own way. He, and she. And she found it in this.

And in battle. That was true. But one Toren killed to kill. She—did it for a reason. The skeleton drew her sword. And she went hunting. She had only one quarry in the dungeon worth doing battle with. He and she could agree on that, at least. They were a nuisance. And they had killed Toren countless times before. Now the shoe was on the skeleton’s foot.

She found the Raskghar camp after nine hours of searching. They had hidden well. But not well enough to escape a skeleton with all the time in the world. They smelled her, of course. And she was used to their howls.

The Raskghar were already waiting for her. Especially the special one. Toren halted in front of their camp. She adjusted her mask. And she moved forwards slowly, as gracefully as the two Soldiers. She was a [Sword Dancer], Level 13. It might not be enough today. It hadn’t been the last twenty-three times.

But she could try again. The Raskghar could not. And they knew her. Oh, yes. They remembered. The one standing guard snarled. Her voice was guttural. Desperate, rasping—that was new—and hateful.

“You. Thing.”

The Raskghar coughed. Nokha bared her teeth, the glowing blade in her hand held up warily. Toren paused. She lifted the blade in her hand and tapped it with one finger.

A new sword. Nokha had destroyed the last one in their last encounter. The skeleton smiled behind her mask. Nokha warily held her ground. Behind her, the other warriors backed up, howling quietly at the camp already preparing to flee. There were less of them, now. Far less than when the Minotaur had led them. Far less camps too. Toren had played a part in that.

“Leave. Leave now. We surrender. Tell magic-Human. Surrender. Surrender.”

The Raskghar was speaking nonsense. Interesting nonsense, but nonsense nonetheless. Toren tilted her head. And then she advanced. Nokha raised the magic sword Toren wanted so much with a snarl of rage. The two waited.

Nokha coughed again, unable to suppress it. Toren leapt. And the Raskghar snarled and screamed. Toren swept towards her, blade slashing up in a two-handed arc. Nokha swung straight. She was faster and stronger. But Toren had anticipated the cut. She let it slash through her ribs and struck Nokha along the arm. The Raskghar howled in pain. Toren grinned. She could recover. She rolled, trying to get away to attack again later—

Too slow. Nokha stomped, crushing Toren’s bones, smashing her skull with her foot over and over. Then she fled, coughing, howling a pained call to the other Raskghar. They fled with her. Toren lay on the ground, her body rebuilding.

Darn. Well, it was worth a shot. And next time, maybe the Raskghar’s arm wouldn’t have healed. She was annoyingly intelligent, though. Still, that cough…

As Toren rebuilt herself, she decided she needed a bow. A bow and arrows might really help. But it was hard finding good weapons that didn’t get smashed with her body. And could she even shoot a bow and arrow? The skeleton picked up her skull and had to fix her mask. Again. She sighed, but it was busy work.

This was what the skeleton saw and did. But what she was really doing was waiting. And then, at last, the skeleton heard it. Distantly, in the way the monsters moved, the dungeon shuddered and adjusted. She turned her head. And she knew they were there.

Adventurers. She smiled and ran towards them. Because she liked people. And they were always worth seeing. Protecting. And maybe her team would be there. The ones she liked.

Her…

Friends? She liked that thought, even if she didn’t understand the concept entirely. But that’s what the Drake had called her. He hated the idea. Hated it and them. But he wasn’t in charge. And they were both lonely. So she kept the mask on. They could always sit in the inn later.



——



A skeleton sat in a tiny bubble in the ground. A hollow depression of dirt, barely large enough to hold her. A coffin would have been more spacious. In fact, the crushing weight of the dirt trying to settle on her would have killed any living creature. The lack of oxygen certainly would have.

But Ijvani, the greatest skeleton in the world and obviously, the only one with actual intelligence, was too depressed to care. Her magical robes were puddled around her, filthy and unwashed. An earthworm digging through the soil went straight through her ribcage.

Ijvani didn’t move. She didn’t react, or move. She could have been an actual skeleton, the dead kind, save for the two dimly golden flames burning in her eye sockets. And her bones.

They were black. Black and glossy—coated with a dark metal. They were part of what made Ijvani special. Unique, in fact. But she didn’t feel special. She was a sad skeleton. Because she was alone. Abandoned. Or worse—would it be worse?—forgotten.

It had been ninety six days. Ninety six days since her last communication with her master, her creator, Az’kerash. Ninety six days since he had reached out to her and she had felt his presence.

He had forgotten her. That was the plain truth of it. Ijvani knew it to be true. Why else had he left her, his Chosen, and not called her back since? He had forgotten her, or replaced her. She didn’t matter.

So. How had she ended up in a hole in the ground rather than proudly serving her master? Ijvani knew the answer. In fact, since she could neither sleep nor forget, she dwelled upon it every moment of her existence, without any biological functions interrupting her grief. Skeletons were unparalleled at having pity parties. And Ijvani could name all the reasons for her despair.

Firstly, she was inferior. She had failed her master, the glorious Az’kerash. The Necromancer. The most brilliant, most powerful [Necromancer] in the history of the world. She had failed him by failing to kill Zel Shivertail with her brothers and sisters. Not only had he survived and forced her master to take to the field himself, he had wounded Az’kerash. And he had damaged all the other Chosen—destroyed one of their number beyond repair, Oom.

Secondly, Ijvani had witnessed a horror worse than her own inferiority. She had seen…her master…the great and powerful Az’kerash whose wisdom and intellect was unmatched by all the Archmages of Wistram…lose a game of chess.

Yes. Lose a game of chess. Ijvani groaned in her pit in the earth. How could it happen? It shouldn’t have happened. But it had. He had lost a game. She had failed him. And now, thirdly, to top it all off, he had forgotten about her.

She had already been in despair about points one and two. Ijvani recalled it so clearly. Her master had killed Zel Shivertail, albeit at cost. And he had retreated, calling on the remaining Chosen to teleport back with the Scrolls of Greater Teleportation that he had spent so lavishly to kill his hated foe. But he had been one short. So he had looked around and—

“Ijvani, you will make your way back with an invisibility spell; there are no more scrolls of teleportation.”

The black skeleton [Mage] shuddered. Oh! The pain of it! The horror! Her master had looked around and named the least worthy of his Chosen to return on foot. The most expendable. He, in his infinite knowledge, had looked among his Chosen and found her the least worthy after measured thought and consideration.

Thus, Ijvani knew: she was a failure. Even more so than Venitra, who had failed to capture both the Human Runner, Ryoka Griffin, and been defeated by Zel Shivertail. But Ijvani was somehow worse.

Even so, that might not have been so bad. Ijvani would have walked through molten magma for her master after all. She had slowly made her way back towards his castle south of the Blood Fields. And then…then had come her error.

It wasn’t disobedience. Ijvani cringed internally. Not really. At first, she just hadn’t heard her creator’s voice in a week, and she had been tired of travelling south, hiding behind illusion spells and moving at night to avoid being spotted. She’d decided, well, to stop.

Not to disobey her master! But just so that he might contact her, to demand what had slowed her down. Because…because that would prove empirically that she still had worth to him. Of course! It had been such a simple plan. He would contact her and no doubt be furious. But he would contact her and then Ijvani could return without fear of going back to him and being…worthless.

So the skeleton had stopped. She’d slowed her pace to a crawl. And the first week had been a grand, butterfly-inducing game of disobedience! Ijvani had hid herself, burying herself in the earth under the pretext—if her master asked—that she had been swallowed by a sinkhole. Buried miles deep, so she’d been faithfully digging her way out!

That was a logical explanation, wasn’t it? She would never have dared to trick her master before, but he had lost a game of chess. So perhaps he might not be perfect in every other way?

It was just a test. Just a little test! To make sure of what she had been sure of—that she still mattered to her master. That, in time, she could regain her grace with him. So Ijvani had waited. She knew that her master knew how long it would take her to return. So after, say, two weeks, he would begin to wonder, if not sooner! After all, she could be very swift when stealth wasn’t a hindrance.

That knowledge had kept Ijvani waiting for the first week. And then the second week. He’d contact her and demand to know where she was tomorrow. And then tomorrow had come and she had heard nothing. But, surely, it would be the next day. Sometimes he spent weeks working on a project, but even then, he could still devote some of his incredible intellect to managing his Chosen, giving them orders.

He would contact her tomorrow. He was just busy today. Venitra had probably done something stupid again. It was a month before it had dawned on Ijvani how long it had been. And then she’d been in denial the second month. Waiting, day after day, to hear him reach out for her. Then she’d been afraid. Something had happened! One of his enemies had laid siege to him in the castle! But—Ijvani realized that would have made her master call her even sooner. Unless she was so useless that even an attack by the Dragon wouldn’t necessitate her presence.

So that led her to today. And Ijvani now realized the truth: she was unloved. She was forgotten. So the skeleton sat. She could not weep. She didn’t even really understand the action. In Az’kerash’s castle, there were no tears. The undead did not laugh or weep. Nor did their master. So Ijvani was sad without knowing how to be sad.

In the darkness of the ground, she whispered to herself. Ijvani’s voice was a ghastly whisper, an echo from beyond. And a bit petulant.

“I am superior. Master loves me. I am unique. Master will call for me. He remembers me. I am…”

Weak. Ijvani remembered Oom dying. Again and again. She saw the Drake crushing his mana core, breaking Oom’s center like glass. She had thought she was so much stronger than Zel Shivertail! He was just a [Warrior]! A mortal of flesh and blood! But he had torn through the Chosen like…

Oom was gone. Not just broken, able to be fixed, but gone. That meant Ijvani could be…gone…too. The skeleton shuddered, confronted by her own mortality. What would it mean, now that the Chosen were one less? How were the others reacting to Oom’s demise?

Not with satisfaction. Yes, the Chosen vied to be the one most loved by their creator, but the loss of one was a blow to their master. And that was a terrible thing. Moreover, Ijvani had liked Oom. More than Kerash or Venitra, at any rate. What would Bea, the lovely creature of plague, do with him gone?

Bea was the one who liked Oom most. They had been created at the same time, after all. Oom had been the second-oldest, Bea third by only a day or two. Ijvani next. And then Venitra. Kerash had been there from the beginning and he was special in a different way. Nevertheless, they were five of Az’kerash’s Chosen, his special creations. But now they were four.

Or was it three? Ijvani shuddered. Was she no longer one of the Chosen? Forgotten as she was, was she like…Viltraid? She remembered him. He had been…not one of the Chosen. But more than a regular undead. And she remembered how he had been removed.

At the time, Ijvani had rejoiced in his demise, because he had been a pest in her eyes, inferior to her. But now she wondered. He hadn’t been one of the Chosen. But her master had created him. And could it be that he had once been one of the Chosen who had…?

Kerash claimed he could remember…more. More who had once been…Chosen. And had somehow failed. Was that what Ijvani was?

“No. No. I am not a failure. I am still one of the Chosen! I am—”

The black skeleton shuddered. She was a special creation! She had a nigh-indestructible body, the ability to match any Gold-rank [Mage] in magical combat! But…

She couldn’t stay here any longer. But—she was afraid to return and have her fears proven. Even so, Ijvani was tired of the dirt. Water kept trickling down every time it rained, and the worms were getting on her nerves. She’d find somewhere else. And keep thinking. Her master might not not hate her, after all.

So Ijvani stood up. Her head was immediately engulfed in soft, earthy loam, but she barely paid it any mind. She put her hands up and began excavating the ceiling. Dirt swallowed her, but Ijvani kept digging, climbing upwards.

A strange sight greeted anyone who might be strolling along the ground of Liscor’s Floodplains. In a small valley, a skeleton’s head suddenly popped out of the ground in a shower of dirt. Ijvani dug herself out of the ground and quickly swiveled her skeletal head three hundred and sixty degrees.

Of course, she was using [Invisibility], [Suppressed Aura], and [Muffle], but Ijvani was well aware that she could be detected by the right Skill or Spells. [Greater Invisibility] was still…beyond her, so she checked the surrounding area for any possible watchers. No one was there. Ijvani pulled herself out of the ground. Then she looked around.

“Where should I wait for Master to call me?”

She stared around blankly. Everywhere looked as equally pointless as her hole in the ground. At last, the skeleton began walking towards a nearby cave. It was as good as any a place to wait. Because her master would call her. Definitely.

Tomorrow.



——



In the Floodplains of Liscor were many unique sights of nature. The ecological marvel and nightmare that was Rock Crabs, for instance, or the surprising survivability of Ashfire Bees trapped in a cave with a limited supply of honey in their hive. Not to mention the wonders of nature in the higher reaches of the High Passes.

However, the most astonishing thing in the entire Floodplains from a researcher’s perspective might be located in a humble cave and valley just outside of it. Because there, in the cave, lived a colony of Fortress Beavers, the oversized cousin of the regular beaver capable of creating massive dams as large as any castle. And just outside the cave, cleverly hidden in the grass, was a nest of Shield Spiders, the dangerous and numerous spiders who could grow to gargantuan sizes given enough time.

Neither species was unique to Liscor. In fact, both were downright common. But what was fascinating to the inner [Arachnologist] and [Mammalogist] inside every person was that both species were living in more or less harmony. This was an unheard of arrangement, given that both species generally tried to exterminate each other given the slightest provocation. And yet, both species were living in more or less symbiosis!

Well, technically you could call it a non-aggression pact born out of a mutual war with a hated foe that had turned into a surprisingly profitable defensive alliance and trade agreement between species. And it had endured, which was even more surprising.

Once, there had been a grave threat to the cave. A foe more terrible than any regular animal. Crelers. And they had infested the cave, as they had so many parts of the world and devoured both spider and beaver alike, preparing to unleash a massive brood in time that would eradicate all life from the Floodplains if left unchecked. But they had been stopped. Not by adventurers, but by a desperate alliance of beavers, slime, spiders, and a Gnoll with a wand. Once, a glorious battle had been waged in this very place.

But such stories were old. And much time had passed since then. Anyone would expect the animals to revert back to their natures and resent each other’s proximity. But that strange alliance had endured.

Here was how it worked. The Fortress Beavers would helpfully (or perhaps, lazily) toss out all the scraps they had no use for in their caves into the Shield Spider’s nest. And that included rats, foxes, other scavengers unprepared to tangle with Fortress Beavers, and once, even a wolf. The Shield Spiders happily devoured the lot and in turn kept the cave clear from larger predators—mainly by trapping them in their concealed nest.

It could have been a clever arrangement that tested the limits of animal and arachnid intelligence by creating a symbiotic relationship that might irrevocably shift the natures and cognition of both species over time if the right circumstances endured.

Or it might be dumb luck. But the sacred bond forged in the Battle of the Cave had endured, albeit with cracks over the long months since. For in the absence of the Crelers, both species were reproducing with the bountiful spring, and cracks had already begun to form in the treaty forged between both species.

The Shield Spiders and Fortress Beavers had both reaped the benefits of the era of fish and rains that had filled the Floodplains. The Fortress Beavers by happily fishing, the Shield Spiders by consuming the fish as the waters receded, leaving the more foolish members of the species trapped. And accordingly, both populations had entered into a massive population boom that meant they were encroaching into each other’s territory.

Several young Fortress Beavers had been eaten—some by wandering into the Shield Spider nest, others by straying too close to it when the Shield Spiders were hungry—and more than a few intrepid Shield Spiders had been smacked to death when they’d crawled into the Fortress Beaver’s cave. Faced with mounting provocations from both sides, both sides could naturally be assumed to go back to war. However, that never occurred mainly due to the one mediating presence that travelled from both cave to pit.

The healing slime. And if a…slimenologist were to happen across this marvel of magical biology, they would probably be at a loss for words. Because the little slime that zipped around the cave possessed not only the ability to move at incredibly rapid speed, but to heal. It was a small blob, barely two feet high, whose inner body glowed and shimmered with magical colors.

It could heal. And because of that, both Fortress Beavers and Shield Spiders tolerated its presence. In fact, both species had begun to rely on the slime. Fortress Beavers wounded by combat with other animals would slink back to the caves and emerge healed in moments. Shield Spiders damaged while at war with other nests of Shield Spiders or animals would wait patiently for the healing slime to roll on by. And while the slime frequented both areas, peace reigned.

It was a marvel. A peace unlike any other. Ijvani stared at the healing slime rolling happily out of the Shield Spider pit. And then she grabbed it.

The slime made no sound. But every color in its translucent body instantly turned to purple and orange. It tried to speed away, but Ijvani held it up in the air and the slime whirled in place. The black skeleton held it up and stared at it. She eyed the mana stone inside the slime.

“What a strange slime. You are not naturally-made. Did some [Alchemist] throw out their potions? But…how curious.”

The slime quivered in terror. And its fright—and the presence of the black skeleton—awakened the Shield Spider nest. They swarmed out of the opening. But they didn’t see Ijvani. They only saw the slime, hovering in midair, clearly under duress. So they swarmed towards Ijvani and ran into her.

Of course, they bit her. The black skeleton stared down at the spiders as they swarmed up her robes and bit at them, and her black bones. The largest spider’s mandibles locked onto a femur and hung on. Its crushing mandibles did exactly nothing to her bones. Ijvani went back to staring at the healing slime.

“You are strange. As odd as Oom.”

She paused. Then she hung her head.

“Oom is gone.”

Depressed, Ijvani put the healing slime under one arm. She didn’t let it go. Or squash the slime’s core. She couldn’t do that to a slime, even if it wasn’t Oom. And she didn’t feel like letting it go. She missed Oom.

“This is a good place to be forgotten by Master. I guess.”

Glumly, Ijvani wandered into the cave. She stared at the colony of Fortress Beavers and the wall of packed mud, grass, and bits of wood they’d turned into a fortress. The Fortress Beavers stopped patting at the wall with their tails and looked up in alarm at the mass of Shield Spiders attacking the…thing in the cave. They saw the healing slime’s distress and lumbered forwards.

Ijvani stared blankly at the Fortress Beavers and noticed she was covered in spiders. She sighed.

“Oh. Right. Invisibility.”

She dispelled the magic and appeared as she was. A metallic skeleton. The Fortress Beavers froze. The Shield Spiders scurried off Ijvani in terror. There was more than a bit of unnatural power in Ijvani. More than a regular skeleton. The Fortress Beavers, who would and did crush errant undead that attacked them, backed up. The Shield Spiders scurried back.

Ijvani didn’t care. She looked around. Then she collapsed onto the ground, staring up at the cave ceiling. She hugged the healing slime to her, much like she remembered Oom doing.

“Master. You remember I exist, right?”

The animals and spiders stared at the quivering healing slime and the motionless black skeleton. The healing slime tried to roll away. Ijvani held on tighter. It stopped moving as she reached into its body and gripped the mana core that was its life source. Then it just trembled.

“Master, I am here. Your faithful servant. Do you remember me?”

Ijvani stared at the ceiling of the cave. She didn’t move. In fact, she was so still that it was unnerving. But there Ijvani stayed, as the Fortress Beavers and Shield Spiders warily moved around her, considering, weighing what their instincts told them against the evidence of their eyes.

An hour, Ijvani lay there. Two hours. Three hours. Then eight. Fortress Beavers realized they could edge around her. Shield Spiders scurried in a large circle around the skeleton and she didn’t move. The healing slime stayed where it was, quivering; the mana core was still in Ijvani’s hand. She enjoyed its presence.

It was to the credit of the Shield Spiders and Fortress Beavers that it took nine hours before one Shield Spider finally decided to overrule the warning bells in its head and scuttle forwards. It opened its mandibles, preparing to bite the skeleton in the face. It was how the Shield Spider reacted to every threat, so it thought the action had a chance here.

The Shield Spider never got to Ijvani’s head. As it got within four feet of the skeleton, it saw one finger rise and point at it. Ijvani spoke a word as she stared up at the ceiling.

“[Searing Flash].”

There was heat. A popping sound—the spider exploded so fast it didn’t have time to make a sound—steam, a patter of falling parts, light, and the sound of many things fleeing as fast as they could. And then blissful silence again. Ijvani sighed.

“Master. I’m here. Can you hear me? Master?”

But that wasn’t how it worked. If she contacted him, how would she know he loved her? That was the quandary. So Ijvani lay on her back and sulked.

There she remained. And the defenders of the caves, the doughty Fortress Beavers and fearless Shield Spiders fled as their ancient ally, the Healing Slime, was held captive. They might have dared an army of baby Crelers. But this?

No. None could oppose the horrifying, unnatural skeleton who wielded magic. It was a threat far beyond even the Crelers. Despair filled the Defenders of the Cave, and they wailed lamentations to the sky. In a metaphorical way.

Who could save them? Who could bring justice back to the cave? Only a wizard. Or perhaps, a [Druid]. So the people cried out, calling the heroine who had once brought salvation to these lands.

And far, far away, in lands most distant, Mrsha the Great and Terrible looked up at the table she sat at. Her ears twitched and her head turned. The wise and brave [Druid]’s head rose and her hair stood on end. Mrsha stood up, not knowing why, only that she was needed—

“Mrsha! Where are you going? Just wait one more second—the Election Day Pancakes are ready to eat!”

The Gnoll paused and looked over. Erin walked out of the kitchen with a huge stack of fluffy pancakes. Mrsha’s eyes went round and her tail began to wag. She sat back down and made a happy signal with her paws. And she completely forgot what she’d been thinking about a few seconds ago.

So the skeleton lay on the ground. And she continued laying there. Ijvani was unhappy. Sometimes, she had to admit, even if she was a Chosen of Az’kerash, sometimes it was really hard being the only sentient skeleton in existence. Venitra didn’t count, obviously.



——



Bevussa Slenderscale leapt forwards and slashed with her enchanted shortsword. The blade cut into the first Bagrhaven’s chest and the screaming monster retreated. The harpy-like creature flew backwards, talons raised, but Bevussa kept advancing. She had no fear of the other monsters swooping around her; her team was in the air and they had the Bagrhavens on the run.

“Push them into the trap! [Gale Wings]!”

Bevussa twisted and her wings flapped once. The Bagrhaven swooping at her screamed as a blast of wind suddenly sent it and three of its companions flying. Bevussa’s team of Oldblood Drakes flew after them, capitalizing on the moment.

The monster harpy-women weren’t idiots. They could sense when the tables were turned against them and the Wings of Pallass had come into their lair ready for a fight. The Drakes and Bevussa might have been outnumbered, but they carried magical armor the Bagrhavens couldn’t easily claw or bite through, and their magical blades hurt. So the Bagrhavens fled, flying down the corridor, intending to lose the fliers behind them.

“Keldrass! Coming your way!”

Bevussa shouted. She heard a shout from ahead. The Bagrhavens tried to slow down, hearing and seeing the armored shapes, but too late. Keldrass and his team threw the nets up and snared the Bagrhavens in the lower-ceilinged corridor. The monsters dropped and the Drakes charged in.

“Cut them down! Bevussa, two are getting—”

“I see them! Wings, after me!”

The Garuda led her team after the last two Bagrhavens who had avoided the nets. She flew through the narrow corridors, faster than her team. The monsters, realizing that they couldn’t escape her, turned. Bevussa slashed at one, striking while flying backwards and kicking off the walls, the ceiling.

The Bagrhaven screeched, trying to bite her, claw her. It fell at last, not from any one decisive strike, but blood loss. Bevussa stared down at the dozen wounds on its body as her team pinned the other to the ground and finally ran it through.

“Captain, congratulations!”

“It was just a Bagrhaven.”

Bevussa modestly wiped her blade before sheathing it. In truth, she was a bit embarrassed. The Flamewardens had already dealt with the other eight Bagrhavens in half the time it took her team. But Keldrass was beaming as he cleaned blood from his axe.

“Good job, Bevussa. We apologize for letting the others get away. We should have aimed more carefully. Injuries?”

The Oldblood Drake was gifted with the power of fire breath unlike Bevussa’s team, who were capable of flight. However, as often happened, the power of Keldrass’ flames were hard to control, such that even the Gold-rank adventurer had to speak in shorter bursts, to avoid accidentally discharging his fiery breath. He also avoided looking straight at Bevussa, turning his mouth to one side as he spoke.

Neither feature bothered the Garuda. She knew Keldrass, and so she only smiled.

“None, Keldrass. No problem on the nets. Bagrhaven are quick. I wish my team and I had your staying power, though. We’d never have taken this nest without injuries. I can barely take one and your team got…”

She indicated the Bagrhavens on the floor, who’d been neatly killed while in nets. Keldrass laughed and a bit of blue flame exited his mouth.

“Nets aren’t very sporting. And we carry heavy armor.”

He indicated the plate armor his team wore, and their weaponry. Bevussa knew that was true.

“Still, if you wanted to, you could fry them in one blast, couldn’t you? I can’t help but feel my team’s lacking compared to yours.”

“Captain!”

One of Bevussa’s teammates, Issa, cried out, sounding hurt. The Garuda rolled her eyes.

“I’m just saying, Issa. We can fly. We’re not exactly great dungeon-divers.”

“Yeah, but we can fly.”

Zassil demonstrated, flexing his wings and grinning at the other Drakes. The Flamewardens on Keldrass’ team grunted or spat flame dismissively. Bevussa sighed. Oldblood Drakes. The ones who could fly always argued with the ones who could spit lightning or fire or acid about who was best. And the ones who could do both were insufferable.

“I just mean I wish I could carry something heavier than a shortsword.”

“Why don’t you?”

Keldrass looked up. He was squatting by a Bagrhaven, plucking the glossy black feathers loose from the creature’s wings. Bevussa squatted next to him. That was their haul today; Bagrhaven feathers were worth good money, and this nest was one she’d be glad to see the last of.

“Oh, you know. Too heavy and I can’t fly right. I’m all hollow bones anyways; armor’s no good, so I have to dodge or die. That’s what they teach you at Pallass’ flying academy. Dodge and strike. Wear your opponent down. Never go for a frontal assault.”

“Huh. I never knew that. Isn’t military doctrine…?”

Bevussa smiled.

“We have Garuda instructors. We’ve changed how Drakes view aerial combat. You know our [Generals] love frontal assaults. Well, that’s not how you fight in the air.”

“Good to know. The brass understands that?”

“They’d better, or they’ll have a lot more casualties than we need. But we’re not in the army anymore, Keldrass. And I’m not about to reenlist and shake things up.”

“No aspirations to be the first Garuda [General]? In Pallassian history? You know, Gold-rank teams can instantly receive…the [Captain] rank if we join back up. And promotions are fast. If you know the right people.”

“Yeah, but is it fun, Keldrass? Why’d you quit that fancy elite unit with your team if it was so great?”

“Well…”

The two Captains chatted as they stripped the monster corpses with their team. Bevussa slid the last blood-covered feathers into her bag of holding and sighed.

“That’s some good money right there. Not as much as we’ll get from those trap rooms. We need to hire some [Miners] or something from Pallass. That Gemhammer team is already stripping the rooms.”

“Huh. Really? How much gold’s…up there?”

Keldrass frowned, pausing to exhale some smoke. Bevussa shrugged.

“Before they noticed me eavesdropping? Few thousand gold in one room.”

“Really?”

“Let’s investigate it. I had no idea it was worth so much, but Earlia sounded serious.”

“Definitely. I’ll send a [Message]. To Pallass’ Guild. Get some insight.”

Bevussa nodded. She straightened, looked at her team, and jerked her head.

“Alright! Everyone got all the feathers? Back to the safe zones!”

Both teams moved in tandem, marching back down the dungeon corridors. Bevussa watched the markings on each wall, checking for outlined traps, navigating back towards the hole in the dungeon that the adventuring teams had climbed down. She and Keldrass kept an eye out, only relaxing when they were in areas cleared of monsters.

They knew it was clear because the first thing they saw was a wall. A palisade, rather. It was made of metal and blocking a tunnel. It was one of dozens the adventuring teams had set up in the dungeon. This one was designed to let adventurers fleeing a threat bail over the top if need be; Keldrass and his team clambered over while Bevussa’s team just flew. But Bevussa knew that before they left the dungeon, unless they were in full retreat, the teams would seal the tunnel completely.

“Classic dungeon tactics. Seal areas one by one. Create safe zones. Deplete monster reserves.”

Keldrass rolled over the top of the palisade and landed on the ground with a crash of metal. He got back up and Bevussa saw his armor flicker a dozen colors. She grunted as she helped pull him up.

“Nice armor. You got that from the Raskghar?”

Her voice was envious; she hadn’t gotten anything nearly as good in the lottery. Keldrass grinned.

“Magical. I could walk through a [Fireball] and not blink.”

“Yeah, yeah. It doesn’t make you any more agile. Come on, let’s seal this palisade and see how the other teams are going. We cleared two corridors today. There’s about eight thousand more to go, but that Minotaur’s map says there’s one of those unopened treasure rooms eight corridors further than where we went. I don’t trust his word at all, but if there’s a chance…”

Keldrass frowned at Bevussa as he helped the rest of his team over the palisade.

“You don’t trust him?”

“What, a traitor that allied with monsters?”

Bevussa folded her wing arms. Keldrass paused, sniffing the air.

“Phew, reeks in here. Those Bagrhavens stink. I usually don’t smell anything but smoke. Anyways, Bevussa. Good soldiers snap. I’ve seen it in the army. You too.”

Bevussa had to agree. About the smell. She waved a wing in front of her face, scowling.

“That’s different. This was—”

The Garuda broke off. So did Keldrass. Issa was waving at Bevussa urgently.

“Captain! I just got a [Message]!”

She unrolled a scroll. Bevussa leapt over to her.

“What is it? Facestealer?”

Instantly, both teams were on alert. Keldrass looked up, his posture tense. Issa shook her head as Bevussa snatched the scroll and read.

“No. It’s from that Silver-rank team. Vuliel Drae. It’s her.”

“The Mask Warrior?”

One of Keldrass’ teammates exclaimed excitedly. Bevussa frowned. She noted the coordinates.

“So the mysterious adventurer’s here, is she? Keldrass, you want to meet this mystery adventurer?”

“The one who helps other adventuring teams?”

The Drake raised a brow. Bevussa scowled.

“Yeah. I want to convince her to come to the guild. Or at least identify her. We still have no idea who she is. And from what I heard, she had something to do with the Face-Eater Moth attack on Liscor—”

“She’s an adventurer. We don’t pry. Besides, she could be Named.”

Keldrass grunted. Bevussa shook her head.

“Hah. Named Adventurer? I’ll eat my tail if that’s the case. Er, wings. I’m going to catch her before she runs off. You in?”

The Drake swished his armored tail for a moment before nodding.

“Go. We’ll catch up. We have to seal this tunnel first.”

“Got it. Don’t be slow!”

Bevussa took wing, calling for her team. They flew after her, disappearing down the corridor in seconds. Keldrass heard a snort from another Drake.

“Don’t be slow. Lizard-faced hatchlings. What, do they not see our armor?”

“Shut it. Let’s get this wall up.”

Keldrass exhaled a plume of smoke wearily. He looked around for the other half of the palisade so they could anchor the wall and seal any monsters that might creep through. Then Keldrass frowned. He looked up.

The ceiling was fairly high overhead. And it was dark, but Keldrass didn’t remember seeing any murals on the dark stone when they’d passed through last time. Only now, there was a pale ivory and yellow…thing…

The Drake’s eyes widened. The crawling bone-thing stared down at him, its face a mask of yellowed bone hung with scraps of rotten flesh. He opened his mouth, the fire building in his lungs.

“Abov—”

The Ceiling Crawler dropped on him. Four more launched themselves down at the Flamewardens, biting and tearing with their limbs of sharpened bone.



——



“It’s really good to see you again, um, Miss Warrior?”

Toren smiled. Of course, she was already smiling, but now she traced a smiley face on her mask. Insill smiled back. The Drake [Rogue] edged closer, eying the two dead Ghouls. One had been shot neatly in the head by Larr’s arrow and struck in the chest by several arrows Anith had conjured. The second had been beheaded by Toren’s blade.

“You always seem to appear when you’re needed. I mean, the dungeon’s sort of your home, isn’t it? We’re really grateful. Again.”

“Not that we needed her! I had it all under control! Right, Pekona?”

Dasha called out loudly as she swung her axe into the skull of the last crawling zombie. Pekona made a snorting sound as she cleaned her curved blade; she and Dasha had hacked through the group of zombies following the Ghoul. Anith just sighed. And Toren smiled.

Vuliel Drae had been surprised by the undead attack. Not too surprised; they’d cut through the group with Toren’s timely arrival with no issue. But Toren had been slightly surprised to see so many undead. So had Anith. He knelt by one body, frowning at the loose armor it wore.

“Hm. A [Soldier]’s gear. And undead? The last expeditions ran into very few undead. I thought we had exterminated most of them already.”

“Maybe some fell into the dungeon. Hah! Anyways, they’re just fodder! Although—hey, Insill! Check the bodies! See if any of them are carrying anything valuable! I’ll pull the armor off this lot. We can probably sell it for some good—hey! Pekona!”

Dasha protested as Pekona pulled her back by the hair. The part-Dwarf woman spun around. Pekona’s expression was as disapproving as Anith’s.

“We don’t loot the dead.”

“Since when? We used to do it all the time! Zombie corpses have chainmail? That’s free chainmail!”

Anith coughed, looking at Toren and then at Dasha.

“I believe since we were able to earn enough to outfit ourselves, Dasha. It is about respect. It may be permissible to search their belongings, but at least leave them their clothes.”

The Dwarf’s face fell.

“What, all of them? At least take the armor and swords…”

“And why do I have to search the bodies? I’m talking with Miss Warrior here!”

Insill complained, looking back from Toren to his team. Larr sighed.

“You’re the [Rogue].”

“So? What does that have to do with anything?”

Pekona, Anith, Dasha, and Larr all looked at Insill. He wavered.

“Well? I don’t like searching bodies.”

“But you are the [Rogue]. There.”

Pekona folded her arms. Insill spluttered.

“But that’s…”

Toren patted him on the shoulder. Insill looked around and Toren squatted next to a body. She turned it over and rummaged around. She offered Insill a handkerchief. He hesitated.

“Um. Well, I guess that’s useful, but not exactly what…”

The Drake glanced over his shoulder. Dasha tapped the side of her head and mouthed ‘crazy’ until Pekona slapped her hand down. Anith shook his head.

“Miss Warrior, thank you again. But some ah, other adventurers have been asking about you. If you’d consent to stay so they can speak with you, we’d be grateful.”

Toren looked up, alarmed and intrigued. Adventurers wanted to speak with her? She adjusted the mask uneasily. Was her cover blown? Maybe she should…

She began edging away from Vuliel Drae. Flustered, Insill raised his claws.

“No, wait! They just want to talk! We’re not trying to accuse you of anything! Or blame you for…”

He bit his tongue. Toren looked at him. Blame her? Had she done something wrong?

“Insill, you idiot. You have the biggest mouth of any Drake I’ve ever met!”

Dasha cursed. Insill flushed.

“I just meant.”

“If you’ll let me explain.”

Anith stepped forwards, bowing apologetically. Toren looked around. She heard flapping wings. And in the distance, what sounded like whispering…

“Aha! Hold it right there!”

A giant bird-woman flew down the tunnel. Toren stared, lifted her sword, and prepared to slash. She halted as Insill darted forwards.

“No, wait! That’s Captain Bevussa! The Wings of Pallass!”

Toren froze. The Garuda landed in front of her, staring.

“Well, well. So this is the mysterious Masked Warrior all the teams are talking about. Hello. Bevussa Slenderscale. Wings of Pallass. Gold-rank team. Before you run off, mind if I have a word?”

Toren paused. She stared at Bevussa. A Gold-rank adventurer? She didn’t look like much. The skeleton saw a few magical items at her belt, some enchanted leather armor, a magical shortsword…she nodded slowly, eying the other Drakes who alighted behind Bevussa.

The Garuda smiled. But she was watching Toren carefully. Vuliel Drae hesitated, but Bevussa was a Gold-rank Captain. The Garuda spoke briskly, peering at Toren’s mask, her clothed body.

“Sorry to bother you, but we’d heard there was a solo adventurer in this dungeon. One that refused to leave the dungeon. I couldn’t believe it myself. Someone surviving this long alone? But I suppose anything’s possible. The thing is—you wouldn’t happen to be able to speak, would you?”

Toren paused. She considered this, and then shook her head. Bevussa nodded slowly.

“Mute? Vow of silence? Cursed?”

The skeleton shrugged unhelpfully. She didn’t like all these questions. Nor did she like Bevussa’s tone. She liked Vuliel Drae and the little Drake standing nervously by her side. Not the Garuda. Bevussa sighed. She folded her wings and looked at Toren.

“Miss. Miss…Warrior? I know we’re both adventurers, but let me be honest. Liscor’s Adventurer Guild’s Guildmistress would like to speak with you about some incidents in the dungeon. The Face-Eater Moth attack on Liscor, for one. We’re not saying it was your fault! But you had a role in how it happened. And frankly, after this situation with the Minotaur, we want to treat anyone staying in the dungeon with care. Do you…are you aware about the situation with the Raskghar? The Minotaur?”

She looked at Toren. The skeleton gave her a blank look and turned her head to Insill. The Drake hesitated.

“Well, what happened was…”

“You can tell her all about it. Above. Miss Warrior, it won’t be for more than a few hours, but we need to talk with you. You can write, can’t you? Let’s go to Liscor and you’ll be free to come back here…or we could find you a team. It can’t be easy staying below. Come on, come with us, please?”

Bevussa tried a smile and held out one claw-hand. But Toren was instantly alarmed. What had she just said? Go above? For hours? That would be death. She slowly stepped back, shaking her head.

“What? No? Why not? I mean, what’s wrong?”

Toren just kept shaking her head. Bevussa paused. She looked at Vuliel Drae.

“What’s wrong?”

“No idea. But she never wants to go above. She does that all the time. Annoying, ain’t it?”

Dasha answered unhelpfully. Bevussa exhaled slowly. She looked at her team, but they were waiting for her.

“Where’s Keldrass when you need him? Excuse me, Miss Warrior—”

Toren hopped backwards. Bevussa paused, and then she did frown.

“I have to insist.”

Shake, shake. Toren crossed her arms for further emphasis. No going above. No way. Bevussa paused.

“Captain Slenderscale, it is her choice. She’s a fellow adventurer…”

Anith murmured to Bevussa. She scowled at him and the Jackal [Mage] hesitated.

“I’m aware, Anith. But if I don’t get her to come with me, Guildmistress Tekshia will have my feathers…Miss! Can you at least identify yourself?”

Toren paused and thought about that. She shrugged and then shook her head again. Bevussa snapped her beak.

“Alright. Well. In that case, if you won’t go up, and can’t tell us who you are…take off your mask, please.”

The skeleton froze. So did Insill, who peeked at her masked face. Bevussa walked forwards.

“Or tell me who you are. I’ve had enough surprises from adventurers in this dungeon.”

Toren backed up. And now she had a hand on the hilt of her sword. He was in her head, laughing at the situation and telling her to stab the Garuda. But Toren didn’t want to. And yet—she couldn’t take her mask off. She couldn’t go out of the dungeon. And she wasn’t sure she knew how to write.

All these things made her back away. But now Bevussa had a look of deep suspicion in her eyes. She advanced, only to be slowed by Insill and Anith.

“Miss Bevussa! Wait! She’s saved our team dozens of times!”

Dasha coughed.

“I wouldn’t say dozens…”

“Hey! That’s our Captain, normalblood. Gold-rank. Claws off!”

Issa snapped at Insill. He hesitated, but Anith backed him up, firmly barring Bevussa’s way.

“Captain Bevussa, adventurers are entitled to their anonymity…”

“She can have that. But there’s the situation with the Minotaur—with Calruz, remember? I just want proof she’s not some half-insane person as mad as he is! Or…or a Raskghar or something!”

Bevussa protested. Everyone looked at Toren and her thin frame. The Garuda sighed.

“Okay, not a Raskghar. But you know what I mean.”

She pointed at Toren.

“What reason does she have to be down here? Why not go above? It’s too suspicious. There’s insanity in challenging a dungeon alone, and then there’s this. Why are you down here, Miss? Why can’t you speak? Who are you?”

Toren had no answer. Well, she had tons of answers, but not ones she could give. And not ones that would deescalate the situation. She tried tracing a smile on her mask. Bevussa glared.

“Are you mocking me?”

“Captain Slenderscale, I’m sure she…”

Anith broke off. Toren was nodding her head happily. It was sort of fun.

Insill choked. Dasha guffawed. Bevussa snapped.

“Alright, that’s it. Mask comes off. Miss, take it off or—”

She paused as Toren drew her sword. Bevussa stepped back.

“Lower it.”

Toren shook her head and lifted her sword. Bevussa’s eyes narrowed. She reached for the hilt of her shortsword.

“Captain Slenderscale!”

Anith protested, but the other Wings of Pallass moved forwards, suddenly tense. Bevussa looked around. She exhaled, annoyed and frustrated. She did not want to do this, but Keldrass wasn’t here being reasonable and she was out of patience. She tried one last time.

“If you won’t so much as answer one of my questions, I have no choice but to—”

She stopped. The masked warrior was looking around, cocking her head. Bevussa scowled.

“Hey! Are you listening to me? I said…”

Then she stopped. Because the mysterious adventurer had held up a finger to her mask where her mouth should be. She was looking about, and looking wary. She turned, blade in hand. And then suddenly, Bevussa felt a tingle of danger too. Not from [Dangersense] or any Skill, but just long-honed instincts. She cleared her throat.

“Something’s…”

She looked around. And then she saw the masked warrior pause. Slowly, ever so slowly, prodded by the sense that there were more undead really close nearby, Toren looked up. And so did Bevussa. She shouted.

“Up—”

The Ceiling Crawler leapt. But Toren was faster. She kicked Bevussa backwards and the Ceiling Crawler landed on her. The undead instantly tried to squirm off Toren—she wasn’t a living thing—but Toren furiously stabbed at it and the undead, sensing the threat, began to fight back. Bevussa flew backwards and Dasha shouted in horror.

“Dead gods! Undead crawling on the ceiling!”

“Wings of Pallass! At them!”

Issa shouted, panicked, and the team began to take wing. Bevussa unsheathed her shortsword.

“No! Stay on the ground! They’ll hit you in midair! They’re jumping!”

“Help Miss Warrior!”

Insill shouted desperately. He swung his daggers, stabbing at the skeletal Ceiling Crawler’s back, but it was all bone! Bevussa hacked with her shortsword. The enchanted blade struck pieces of ivory away as Toren stabbed at the thing from below. It was biting her, sinking its claws and teeth into her cloth ‘body’. Anith, Insill, and Bevussa were all trying to get it off her, crying in horror, but Toren mostly just felt tickled.

At last, the three adventurers tore the Ceiling Crawler off Toren and it flipped, trying to snare Insill. He dodged out of the way and it crawled backwards, unnaturally fast. It was bigger than even Larr, and there were three more of them, leaping from wall to ceiling, trying to pin down and savage the adventurers!

“Gah! What are these things! Pekona! Help!”

Dasha screamed as one leapt at her. Pekona leapt forwards and slashed.

“[Flash Cut]!”

Her blade went through the thing’s arm and the bones clattered to the floor. The Ceiling Crawler recoiled and Dasha smashed it on the bony, gnashing face, shouting. The Wings of Pallass were fighting back-to-back, not at home on the ground.

“Retreat! We’re fighting the wrong type of monster! Retreat!”

Bevussa shouted at her team and Vuliel Drae’s. Larr loosed an arrow and watched it bounce off one of the skeletal monster’s heads. Anith raised his spellbook and pointed.

“[Repulsion Barrier]! Go, go!”

The wall of force threw back the Ceiling Crawlers for a moment. All the adventurers turned and ran. Toren bounded after them, feeling distinctly miffed. What kind of undead were these? And why did she sense a lot more ahead of them?

She got her answer as the adventurers streamed back towards the entrance and came face to face with another Silver-rank team. Nailren and the Pride of Kelia. The Gnoll adventurers, most armed with bows, were retreating as well. The Gnoll howled at Bevussa.

“We’re under attack! There are Crypt Lords! And something else! All adventurer teams, pull back! They’ve smashed one wall!”

“Where’s Keldrass? We need his team!”

Bevussa shouted. Nailren drew breath as his team began loosing arrows—Toren peered past them. Those were Crypt Lords! The same ones in his kitchen! She slapped her skull, vexed. Of all the—

And then all the adventurers heard it. Three loud, desperate blasts. They looked up. Bevussa shouted.

“That’s the retreat! Shield Spiders?”

“Or just too many undead! Come on!”

“Not without Keldrass! Wings, we have to find—oh, Ancestors. What is that?”

Toren turned. And then he heard it. Faint whispers growing louder. Voices. A chorus of the damned.

“Doombringer. Bring us doom…”

“Lord Tyrion! The Goblins are—”

“Redfang.”

“Who are you? You’re not a Gnoll. You’re—”

“It’s cold.”

Dozens of voices. The adventurers froze. Toren stared at the writhing mass of hands and bodies, pulling the entire assembly towards him. The flesh-pit writhed, calling out to the living. Dasha paled. Pekona stumbled backwards, eyes wide. Toren wondered how it had gotten out of the inn. It better not have smashed any tables!

“Greater undead. Back to the entrance. Wings of Pallass, throw your alchemical weapons! Issa! Wand of Lightning! Now!”

Bevussa reached for her belt. She grabbed a potion, threw it, and ducked backwards. Toren stared as the other adventurers took cover. What was—

The whumph sent the skeleton flying. She landed on her head, which was fine, and got up. There was a flash—lightning blasted past the adventurers, catching a Ceiling Crawler as it leapt. The Wings of Pallass were using their magical items with abandon. Bevussa yanked an acid potion from her belt.

“Acid potions, on that thing! Withdraw! We’re making a stand at the entrance! Zassil, fly back and find the other teams! Rally on me! On me!”

Anith was chanting, throwing magical arrows of light. Vuliel Drae held their ground as Larr shot zombies and Ghouls through their heads. Pekona leapt forwards, slashing at a Crypt Lord and dodging backwards as it spat black blood and swung at her. Toren wondered if this was somehow her fault.

Probably. She looked around, seeing more of the battle, flashes of light from behind them. The adventurers were putting on a really good fight. The undead, for all that several Crypt Lords were leading them, weren’t actually that much of a threat to this many teams. Toren didn’t see a reason to panic.

The fact that the many dead bodies of the flesh-pit were screaming at the living, calling out to them, didn’t really strike Toren as an issue. The Gnolls crying out to the Pride of Kelia, the Human faces beseeching Pekona, the Drakes screaming at their comrades in the Wings of Pallass—Toren scratched her head. Now where could she do the most good? Or—maybe she could slip away? That angry bird-adventurer got on her nerves.

Toren was just deciding to quietly leg it when she spotted something lurching forwards next to the flesh pit. She froze in place. And she looked back across the battleground at the lurching form. No. At her.

It was Erin. No—the zombie. Toren felt a hand creeping up towards her mask. She seized it, staring at the hand. No! Not now! But it was her! The zombie-Erin had gotten loose, and it was advancing on the adventurers! But it was moving past the flesh-pit, and the desperate undead abomination, looking for something to replenish the bodies melting under the acid and combined firepower of the magical adventurers, suddenly seized zombie-Erin with dozens of hands.

No! He was suddenly wrestling with Toren, trying to remove the mask. She grabbed the hand reaching for the mask with her own. He was trying to take over! Not now! She stared at zombie-Erin, flailing vacantly at Bevussa. It was just a zombie! It wasn’t even the real Erin!

But it was real to him. And Toren felt her feet carrying her forwards. She looked around. The adventurers were stumbling back. But Insill, darting forwards to hamstring the undead, had been caught by one of the hands of the flesh pit. He was screaming, sinking into the abomination as hands tried to drag him into the center of the fleshy mass. Dasha was running towards him with Pekona, but a Crypt Lord barred their way.

Insill. The funny Drake. Toren froze. She looked at him. And then at zombie-Erin, absently waving an arm and groaning. And Toren, both Torens, realized something. They looked ahead. And then at their hands. Slowly, the hand grasping Toren’s mask let go. And it reached instead to the right. Nailren jerked and turned.

“What are you—”

Toren’s hand slapped him on the face and snagged the buckler on his side. The skeleton raised the shield. He and she ran forwards, past the adventurers who shouted at her to come back. For him to stop. But neither Toren listened. For the first time, they began working together.

There were zombies in the way, Ghouls leaping forwards. Toren barreled into them, shield raised. [Daring Charge]! He smashed a zombie aside, ducked as the undead turned their wrath on him. A Ghoul leapt, jaw gaping. Toren blurred out of the way and his sword ran it through the stomach.

[Mirage Cut]. Toren tore the blade loose and ran past the Ghoul as Larr’s arrow caught it in the chest, keeping it from rising. He saw a wall of zombies and hesitated.

Attack? No! [Hi-Jump]. Toren leapt into the air and kicked off a wall. She saw a Crypt Lord turn and swing at her. She slashed down, cutting across the undead’s body, but it kept swinging. Toren flung herself sideways.

[Perfect Dodge]—she braced on the ground and lunged. Her sword slashed through the Crypt Lord’s leg. [Sharpened Edge]. It fell, and Toren stopped. The kick to the Crypt Lord’s face came from both of them.

Closer. Insill was sinking into the flesh-pit, screaming in pain as the bodies inside clawed and bit at him. Toren leapt forwards. He brought his buckler down. [Shield Bash]. Toren heard a satisfying crunch, and one of the arms snaring Insill fell away, broken. Toren sawed at the other. Insill, one of his arms free, cut at the other arms, sobbing.

“Thank you, thank you—”

“Insill! This way!”

Dasha was shouting. She and the other warriors with weapons had opened a hole for them to retreat. Insill leapt forwards.

“Come on! Miss Warrior! The Flamewardens are here! Miss Warrior?”

He turned. Toren was still hacking at the flesh pit. He turned.

“Miss Warrior—”

The masked face turned. She looked at Insill, and then shoved him. He stumbled backwards. Pekona darted forwards, hauling him away.

“No! Wait! She’s—”

Insill shouted, but Toren was surrounded by the undead. Bevussa caught her breath. The undead were being cut down on all sides, but the flesh-monstrosity was coming straight at the adventurers. And it was trying to pull them in like Insill.

“We can burn it down!”

Keldrass rasped. He was spitting smoke, his armor still littered with bones from the Ceiling Crawler ambush. He pointed.

“Flamewardens, prepare to breathe! One, two—”

“No! She’s still in the line of fire! Hold it! Keldrass, there’s an adventurer there!”

Bevussa yanked at Keldrass. The Drake stopped.

“What?”

“What’s she doing?”

Another Gold-rank team Captain, Bessr, lowered his wand and shouted incredulously. Bevussa didn’t know. The masked adventurer had gotten the Drake [Rogue] to safety, but she was still hacking at the flesh-pit. Trying to pull…Bevussa’s eyes narrowed.

“Is she trying to rescue a zombie?”

“What?”

Keldrass stared. Bevussa hesitated. The masked warrior was trying to save the zombie, heedless of the hands trying to pull her into the undead mass. Bevussa cursed.

“Archers! Protect that adventurer! Keldrass, wait! Take out the undead on the flanks! Pull back! Don’t let her get sucked in!”

Toren heard none of it. Nor did he see the arrows that flew, covering him. All he could see was Erin. He began hacking at the mass of moving bodies, heedless of the hands trying to drag him in. He could see the Erin-zombie—Toren grabbed at her, dropping his shield and pulled as he slashed wildly. She came away rotten flesh tearing, light fading from her undead eyes. Toren staggered back. Erin? Erin? He lowered her to the ground. Staring at her.

“Flamewardens! Breathe!”

Fire blasted past him. Toren didn’t see it, didn’t see the other adventurers throwing the jars of acid that seemed so familiar, or the monstrosity of corpses burning, melting. He heard a voice as he held Erin. The zombie was weakly trying to bite his arm.

Right. She was just a zombie. But she was his zombie. She represented…Toren stared at it. It was no good. She was fading. Too damaged by the flesh-pit and the battle.

Damn it. Damn it all. He was going to have to get a new one.

“A second time! Inhale—now!”

This time the fire drowned out the voices of the dead. Toren heard a crackling sound, explosions of fat catching fire. He felt the heat and then hands gently pulling him back. He stayed where he was, cradling the dead Erin in his arms. He’d worked so hard on the clothes. And the hair! It was so hard to find a zombie with the right color hair! Not to mention the same species!

The adventurers slowly regrouped, counting injuries. Not losses, thankfully. The undead assault had been quick, but not deadly. Keldrass’ team was mainly to thank for that. The furious Oldbloods had burnt half the undead themselves, and Bevussa’s holding of the line had ensured the undead hadn’t even overrun them. Even so, they were all shaken.

“Dead gods. What kind of undead was that?”

Bevussa pointed at the remains of the monstrous flesh-pit that had been made of hundreds of bodies. She could still hear the voices, calling out to her. She shuddered; some of the greener adventurers were throwing up. The other veteran Captains looked at each other.

“I think it was a Wailing Pit. You get them in mass graves. I don’t know. I didn’t think they could move.”

“Dead gods, I didn’t know undead could speak—”

“How did so many corpses get in one place?”

“Maybe they fell into the dungeon after the battle with the Goblins. Could be anything, but dead gods, I thought I recognized someone…”

“No recognizing anyone now. Almost all ash. Still—anyone got more acid jars? Let’s melt the rest.”

“What I want to know is why that crazed adventureress stuck around. She got Insill out, but why…?”

And then everyone was staring at the masked warrior. Some of the other teams pointed, recognizing her. Keldrass and Bevussa stared at the enigmatic warrior. Keldrass cleared his throat. Bevussa closed her eyes.

“Oh. Oh, that’s why…”

It was a simple picture, really. A tableau. There was the masked adventurer, nameless, a shadow in the dungeon. And she was cradling someone. A zombie. Yes. A zombie, but one she had risked her life to preserve. And sometimes you forgot that zombies had been people.

Erin. Well, sort of. Toren held the motionless zombie in her arms and bowed her head over the corpse. It was going to be such a pain to find another one. He didn’t notice the adventurers watching him.

“Well, now I feel like a complete Lizardperson.”

Bevussa whispered to her team. She shook her head, ashamed of her suspicion. Keldrass looked at the masked adventurer, a pained look on his face. Slowly, he took off his helmet. After a moment, the rest of his team followed suit.

“You hate to see it. Think she lost her friend in the dungeon or in one of the battles?”

Issa leaned on Zassil, tears in her eyes. The other Drakes looked at each other.

“Fellow adventurer, maybe? A duo?”

“Could be one of the monster attacks.”

“Argh. And no wonder she’s not leaving. But it’s not healthy to stay—”

“You can’t talk sense to her. She nearly drew a sword when Captain Slenderscale tried to get her to leave. It’s the shock.”

Bevussa reddened under her feathers as Keldrass looked at her reproachfully.

“I didn’t know. I thought—”

The Drake paused. And then he slowly walked over to the masked woman. He bent down. Slowly, his voice rasping after breathing so much fire, he coughed and addressed her.

“Miss? Miss. Let’s bury your friend. You can’t do anything more for her. You found her—you did it.”

The masked woman looked up, almost surprised. She let go of the body. Keldrass caught her, patting her awkwardly on the shoulder.

“I’m sorry. We’ve all experienced it. Was she—were you old comrades?”

He waited. Toren stared at him and then the zombie. Keldrass shook his head.

“You don’t have to say anything. But we can’t leave the body. Burial might be—once a zombie—we could cremate her. With respect. An adventurer’s burial.”

Toren had no idea what they were talking about. But she obligingly let them burn the body. All the adventurers made a big deal about it, solemnly standing around and saying a few words. For some reason they expected her to collect the ashes. They even gave her a bag for it. And the bird-woman kept patting her on the back.

“I know it’s hard. But you can’t throw away your life. You understand? Just—come with us for a bit.”

Toren kept shaking her head. She was prepared to run, but Bevussa didn’t seem intent on taking her mask anymore. Toren saw some of the other adventurers whispering and looking at her.

“We can’t force her. You know how unstable—”

“—be worse to let her as she is. Staying down here?”

“The Minotaur did it. Look, let’s get a [Healer]’s opinion on this. One used to dealing with adventurers? She’s survived this long—I knew a team that tried to force it. Turned ugly.”

“I’m really sorry. Again. But if there’s any way…”

Bevussa sighed as Toren backed up. The Garuda shook her head and looked at Keldrass. He grimaced, but tilted his head towards the ropes. Some adventurer teams were already ascending. Bevussa gave it one last try.

“At least let’s say we owe you a drink. Any…anytime you want, we’ll buy you a drink. Hell, we’ll buy you ten! You want to come above, you can find us in Liscor’s Guild, alright? Just send a [Message] and someone will get word to us. We’ll take you to the best inn we know. Alright?”

She waited. And at last, the masked woman slowly nodded. Bevussa smiled. She held out a claw.

“Then—friends? I’ll look for you again when we return. You’ll be there. Promise?”

The masked adventurer wavered. But she came forwards. And after staring at Bevussa’s claw, she took it.

Slowly, the skeleton shook the Garuda’s hand. And Toren—both Toren’s—felt a flash of…warmth. No. Not warmth; they were dead after all and there was no biology to react. But a memory of it. Bevussa smiled and Toren traced a smile on her mask.

He watched them preparing to leave. In the end, Vuliel Drae and the Wings of Pallass and the Flamewardens were last. They’d stayed to try and convince Toren, but now they were going. And in the end…the skeleton wavered.

She would miss them. And he had never understood why. But today, they’d been…fun. They’d killed the stupid Crypt Lords that kept stealing his undead, and the flesh-pit. So, maybe she was right. Maybe…Toren looked at the adventurers and decided they weren’t so bad.

“Dead gods, but I do need a drink. And I’ll buy a round for everyone. My treat.”

Bevussa was talking to the others, glancing back at Toren now and then. She wished she could join Bevussa. But outside was…Toren turned away, sighing inwardly. Bevussa sighed too, watching her leave. She shook her head. Each adventurer made their choice. She only hoped she’d see that brave soul again. By her side, Zassil looked up at his Captain.

“What is the best inn in Liscor, Keldrass? Or bar? Wishdrinks? I know you’re not thinking of the Tailless Thief, Bevussa—”

“Hey! I like that inn.”

Bevussa rolled her eyes at Keldrass as he protested mildly.

“Because you’re a Drake, Keldrass. That [Innkeeper] treats you like royalty and anyone who’s not a Drake like dirt. Please, there’s only one inn I’m thinking of—”

“Oh come on. She doesn’t even have a good selection of alcohols.”

Keldrass protested. Bevussa snorted and turned to him.

“It’s The Wandering Inn for sure. Sure, it’s not the best cooking, but Miss Solstice’s got all those new foods. Sure, the variety’s less than what you can get at some other inns, but there’s the plays and the magic door and the fact that there’s always something interesting going on…”

She turned back to the tunnel. But the masked woman was gone. She’d vanished while Bevussa had been speaking. Damn. Bevussa had been hoping to lure her with the promise of a hot meal, but the masked woman was truly…the Garuda shook her head as she turned sadly back to Keldrass.

“Gah. I hate to see it. We have to do something for her. Carefully. Let’s get that drink, Keldrass, figure something out.”

“You can’t save them all, Bevussa.”

Keldrass patted her on the wing-arm. Together they left the dungeon. The adventurers left, abandoning the horrors of below for recuperation.

And in the dungeon, Toren lay on his back. He jerked—looked around. Why was he lying down?

Oh. He’d fainted. He’d heard ‘The Wandering Inn’. And then he’d heard…the skeleton stared up at the ceiling. He’d heard that wrong. Hadn’t he?

Solstice?

…Erin?





6.49


It was a fact unbeknownst to anyone in the world that Liscor had a population of two intelligent skeletons living in the region. However, as facts went, those weren’t the ones that demanded the attention of the people of Liscor. Even if someone were to tell a pedestrian on the street that a skeleton named Ijvani had occupied a cave in the Floodplains, they would probably ask if it could wait until tomorrow.

Of course, if they were aware that Ijvani were a minion of Az’kerash, said pedestrian would probably have a lot more questions to ask and bump up the priority of undead dispatch on their list of priorities, but that was obviously extraneous detail to the example. Only one fact occupied the minds of Liscor’s inhabitants. And that was that it was election day.

And the election had come and gone. The polls, which were really just guarded booths where each citizen could, after swearing under truth spell, deposit a vote for a candidate of their choice in a box, were closed. The day had been full of note, from a certain [Innkeeper] organizing a group of Pallassian Garuda to fly a banner over Liscor to numerous fights over the candidates in the city.

It was all anyone could talk about. Krshia and her Gnoll candidates for a more open Liscor! How could you argue that the crazy Human and her inn hadn’t been good for the city? That the Antinium weren’t allies, especially the painted ones? What kind of close-minded scales-for-brains would say the city needed more army interferences, needed to close its walls?

At the same time, who could trust the Antinium, really trust them? Or Goblins? Or that crazy Human, who, let’s be fair, was behind half of the disturbances to the city? And why not kill that damned Minotaur in the prison? Those were the stakes, and they had divided Liscor—until today. The arguments, strife, and in one case an assault with a spatula, had been resolved. Some people were in jail. Some people had concussions. Some people were just rather upset.

The tense, nervous energy of the day had given way to a quiet sort of hush. Everyone was waiting. No one knew what the future held and as the Watch took the guarded bins of votes into city hall, a seldom-remembered spot except in times of crisis, everyone waited.

The [Scribes] would be counting, tallying up the votes. And soon, the current Council would announce who had won. Who had it been? Krshia? Lism? They had fought over one district. Would she win, but face a Council full of Drakes? Or would he take the victory? Would any Gnoll win? …Would they all win?

The people had no idea. So a crowd gathered, waiting outside the building in more or less silence. A line of [Guards] had been deployed outside the building to keep anyone from interfering. And so, everyone waited. First for an hour. And then two. They were restless. How long could it take to count all the votes? Then again—it was a big city. And everyone whom everyone asked said they’d voted. So…how long? What would the results be? The people waited, breathless, wondering what the future held and wondering, in the back of their minds, if they’d made the right choice.

Inside the city hall, the building was mostly quiet. It was not, as those outside imagined, a feverish mess of [Scribes] sorting through an imagined mountain of ballot votes. In fact, the [Scribes] were having a drink while they waited for the announcement. If there was any feverishness, it was in the meeting room of Liscor’s Council.

Liscor’s Council. An oft-overlooked body of leaders. Few people in the city could name even one of the Council members until the last month. That was because by and large, the Council kept Liscor running. It did not shake the boat. In fact, it didn’t even really pilot the boat. Liscor had a High Command in the form of the army. The Watch Captain secured the city.

Sometimes a crisis reared its head, but you had a [Strategist] for that. The Council’s modus operandi had been ‘don’t fix what isn’t broken’, or perhaps, ‘if it still sort of works, let’s just not bother fixing it.’ And it had worked. So the people inside the room were a bit peeved that no one seemed to appreciate the hard work they hadn’t done.

The eight Drakes sitting around the meeting room were reclining on their comfy chairs, scowling at each other. They were all rich. One of them, Stales Greenscale, was the current head of the Merchant’s Guild. The others were in the same sphere of affluence. That was who comprised Liscor’s Council, and each time they changed positions, the current Council traditionally nominated their replacements.

Again, until today. The outcry of the public had forced an election. And astoundingly, not one of Liscor’s damned, the ungrateful, er, wonderfully active citizenry had thought to consult the current Council on whether they thought this was a good idea, thank-you-very-much. But here they were.

“Elections. What has this city come to?”

Councilmember Yalla spat as she took a gulp of the fortified wine. She stared blankly around the table; the other Drakes were giving her more or less the same looks. One of them, Stales, cleared his throat. Someone had to say it. The Drake [Scribe] had been standing there for three minutes. He turned to her.

“The votes have been recounted?”

“Three times, Councilmember.”

The [Scribe] gave him a very put-upon look. It stopped Stales from suggesting another recount. He hesitated.

“And you’re sure…?”

“My [Scribes] and I were checked and the [Guards] who watched everyone put the votes in were checked. And the voters were checked. We all passed truth spells, Councilmembers. These are the results.”

The female Drake pointed to the list that lay in front of all of Liscor’s Council. Stales looked down at the neat tallies and winced. Clear as day. Every vote accounted for. Winners, losers—how many each candidate had got and who had won each district. He nodded slowly.

“Hm. Thank you, Miss. We’ll send word of the…results shortly. Have someone come back in—ten minutes?”

It was too short. Some of the Council stirred and looked at Stales. He slowly sipped at his cup and wished he had a puffer—one of those nice ones you could light up and smoke. It was all the rage in the south, especially if you could light it with magic or your own fire breath. Too expensive for him to import regularly though, especially at the Council meetings. Then everyone would have to have a few.

Not that that would be a problem now. He was out. Stales smiled bitterly. But this! He looked up and met the eyes of his fellow Council. Stales cleared his throat.

“Well. It’s not…bad. Two of our own won.”

The other Drakes nodded after a moment. By ‘our own’ they meant people that they thought of more or less like themselves. Councilmember Yalla tapped the list.

“Tismel and Zalaiss. I wouldn’t have made Tismel my first choice—the fellow’s a bit indecisive. But he’s a proper Guildmaster, has been for three years. There are worse picks. And Zalaiss is one of my [Merchants]. She can keep the helm steady.”

Another Drake grunted sourly.

“She’d need to. Look at this. They won two of the eight districts and these…others won the rest!”

“To be fair, there are two other Drakes that won. Er, this Jeiss fellow and Alonna.”

“I know him. A Senior Guardsman. A bit unconventional, but it wouldn’t be so bad if they were like him. He’s a decent fellow. I was one of the people who approved his nomination for Senior Guardsman, come to that.”

“Me as well. No, no problems here. Alonna…well, she is a Guildmistress in the end. That’s something.”

“Guildmistress? But you said—”

“Mage’s Guild.”

“Oh. I see.”

Another bout of silence. Obviously, [Mages] were a bit…different. A bit odd, a bit unconventional. And Stales happened to know that Alonna was new to her position. Still, they could have happily accepted her, or even Jeiss, for all the oddity of his position but for the other four new members of the Council. He stared at the list. Someone else cleared his throat.

“Four Gnolls on the Council? Not bad at all. Just…”

He trailed off. And what was not said spoke volumes. The other Drakes nodded. Yes, not bad! Not bad, but—and there it was. No one had a problem with Gnolls! Certainly not! My son married a lovely one—I have tea with so and so every other week! They add a bit of complexity to the city! Be tiring to look at scales all day. Lovely people. A bit annoying when they shed.

But this was Liscor. Their home. And Gnolls, having an equal distribution of power in the new Council? Not to mention…Stales looked at the list and sighed.

“Senior Guardswoman. [Armorer]. [Shopkeeper]. And [Beast Tamer].”

Not one a Guild leader. Although Stales was conveniently forgetting that exactly two Gnolls in the entire city held a rank equivalent to Guildmaster. The other Drakes were nodding. One sighed louder.

“They took four districts. How? I thought that other fellow, the…er, whatshisname, ran a good campaign. I voted for him. Or rather, his candidate. I was in Tismel’s district.”

She looked around, daring the others not to nod in agreement. In fact, they’d all been in Tismel’s district, which, come to that, was probably why they’d won. Stales buried his head in one claw as he saw why the districts had led to four Gnoll candidates winning. He muttered a reply.

“The Drake who lost was…Lism. Lism Swifttail. A [Shopkeeper], yes, but he’d be the one we wanted as opposed to this Krshia Silverfang and her lot. But he lost.”

The others fell silent.

“If he had won—”

Yalla leaned over towards Stales. She’d crumpled her bit of paper up, never mind it was a waste of good paper.

“How much did he lose by?”

“Not much. But he lost, Yalla.”

Stales snapped, shoving the paper at her. Yalla raised her brows.

“So?”

“So—”

Stales hesitated. Yalla looked around the table. The rest of Liscor’s Council sat up. Yalla narrowed her eyes.

“It’s just a number. And who knows who won, really? Just us and a few others?”

Silence. Liscor’s Council had not been looking forwards to posting the results of the election. They’d let it happen because they hadn’t figured out a way to stop it without getting in trouble. And they’d delayed their announcement because, well, they were unhappy with the results. Until now, they’d been doing what the Council did best: avoiding the problem. But now that they’d run into it, a few desperate minds started churning away.

Another Councilmember leaned back. He didn’t quite steeple his claws or give the others a conspiratorial look, but that was mostly due to inexperience. He slowly put out the thought everyone was thinking.

“How many [Scribes] did the counting?”

“Not many. But I’ll bet they all know the result.”

Stales nodded. He spoke, trying to feel out his thoughts verbally.

“We could…insist this was a Council affair. Persuade them to keep quiet.”

“Under threat?”

Silence. Everyone was trying to look at everyone now, for signs of doubt. No one was particularly adverse to the concept, it seemed. The plot began to thicken. Stales frowned.

“Right. But what are we threatening them with, exactly? The Watch?”

—And then it fell apart. The Councilmembers paused. They looked at each other, coughed. Somehow, getting Watch Captain Zevara to go along with threatening the [Scribes] didn’t quite…gel.

“If we made it a general threat…I mean, the Merchant’s Guild has guards, Stales.”

“Wait, my guards? But they voted!”

“Well, what if they were all Drakes who voted er, for the right candidates?”

“Okay, But what if the [Scribes] talk anyways?”

“We deny it. Obviously! And we burn the votes and these lists! Look, I have a match—”

“Careful where you wave that thing! I accidentally set my desk on fire with them!”

“Nifty, aren’t they! Shame they run out. But as I was saying, deny it! Simple!”

“What if they ask us to swear under truth spell?”

The Council paused. One of them coughed after a moment.

“…They wouldn’t do that. Would they?”

The Drakes thought about it for a second. Gloom immediately set in. They would absolutely do that. The losing party would howl it from the rooftops if the Council didn’t do it—purely as a formality—to ensure the truth had been upheld. The Council looked at each other and the half-burgeoned plot, barely formed, fell apart.

They were too late. If they wanted to meddle, they should have done it earlier. They should have been better at it. But they weren’t [Politicians]. This was a side job! It was just—Stales sighed.

“Four Gnolls? Two would have been fine. Really, even three…”

Gloomily, he stared at the list. You could even see who the most popular candidates were by numbers of votes. Krshia Silverfang had won, handily, but honestly, if you just looked at the numbers, there were more Drakes than…he caught his breath.

“I suppose we make the announcement. Soonest done, soonest over. We’ll convene the Council tomorrow. Try to get it into their heads how it works. And then? Out of our claws, really. And that’s a relief! This year has done havoc to my scales with all the stress…”

Yalla was standing up with the others, resigned. Stales waved a claw urgently and they all looked at him.

“Hold on! Hold on! I have a solution. Look at this. If you look at the list—”

“We can’t lie, Stales. They’ll find us out!”

The Merchant’s Guild’s leader shook his head rapidly, a bubble of delight forming in his chest. It wasn’t perfect, but it would work. He looked up, grinning at the other’s blank expressions.

“Who said anything about lying? This is perfectly legal! Look! Check the number of votes each candidate received. Do you see? Do you see?”

They scrambled for the lists. And they did see. There was murmuring, a hint of dissent. Stales overruled it.

“We said we’d consider the election. We didn’t say we’d do it. Did we?”

The Council looked up. Yalla hesitated, although Stales was sure she’d agree.

“We’d have to explain the decision somehow. If it goes ugly…if the losers object—it could be bad.”

The Council fell silent. The worst case scenario popped helpfully into Stales’ mind. What would happen if the people objected to this idea?

Riots in the streets. He gulped. The Drake wavered. He looked at the list, trying to decide.

“Four Gnolls on the Council. We could live with that. It’s not a majority.”

“But it’s half. And they could push through a lot of votes, especially since it’d be down to Zevara…”

“Two would be perfect.”

“It’s risky…”

Yalla looked around the table.

“If we did it this way…what is it this time?”

“Three.”

“Three’s good. And it works! No one’s going to riot. And we never promised.”

“Exactly. So, all in favor?”

The Council of Liscor looked up. And they cast their last vote. It was unanimous. And they only felt a little guilty doing it.



—-



It was late evening in Liscor. Election day. There was a crowd outside city hall. Thousands of Drakes and Gnolls, filling the plaza and going all the way up to the steps. A line of [Guards] kept anyone from entering. Erin Solstice stood near the front, peering on her tiptoes while Lyonette held Mrsha in her arms.

“You’re heavy, sweetie. If I’d have known it would take this long, I’d have brought a chair. Climb up and hold on, would you?”

Lyonette groaned to Mrsha. The Gnoll cub obligingly held onto Lyonette’s shoulders, taking the burden off the [Princess]’s arms. Erin glanced sideways at Lyonette. She was antsy with anticipation and nerves.

“Why not let Mrsha down?”

“And let her be stepped on?”

Lyonette looked reproving. The crowd was thick with bodies. Erin hesitated.

“Right. Well, I can hold her—”

“No, I have her. It’s good training for my arms, anyways. Although Mrsha’s a lot heavier than a sword.”

Erin blinked.

“You still practice?”

“Every day. Some days I forget, but I do try! Yvlon’s mentoring me.”

“Huh. How come I never notice this?”

“I do it in Liscor. Anyone can use the Adventurer’s Guild’s training courts.”

“Oh. That’s why you take so long to buy eggs.”

It was idle chatter. And their voices were one in thousands of conversations. Mrsha sighed and rubbed her face against Lyonette’s shirt, making an inarticulate sound of protest. Lyonette patted her on the head.

“Just a bit longer, honey. I promise. If they don’t finish in…twenty minutes, I’ll buy you a snack. Promise! But it’s a big day.”

Mrsha nodded. And Erin nodded. And everyone in earshot nodded. It was worth waiting for. Because everyone was here, or waiting for the news. Street Runners were poised to earn some tips delivering the message. Voters were ready to celebrate or maybe, riot.

Erin cast her gaze towards city hall’s steps. There they were at the head of the crowd. The main actors in this drama.

Krshia, Senior Guardswoman Beilmark, Elirr the [Beast Trainer], Raekea the [Armorer], and the other four Gnolls stood together in an anxious knot at the head of the crowd. Selys stood behind them, anxiously hopping up and down to see past the taller Gnolls.

Across from them, alternating between staring at the double doors and glaring daggers at Krshia’s side were Lism, Senior Guardsman Jeiss, Alonna the Guildmistress of the Mage’s Guild, and two Drakes and three Gnolls. Olesm stood next to his uncle, not a candidate, but a part of it all. Erin glared at the back of his head and he winced, as if feeling her stare.

“If that jerk Lism wins, I swear, Olesm’s banned from the inn.”

She wasn’t sure if she was serious. And she wasn’t sure what she would feel if Krshia lost. Erin clenched her sweaty hands. And then, just when she was turning to Lyonette to suggest getting Mrsha a snack—the doors opened.

The murmuring crowd went so quiet, it was as if someone had cast a [Silence] spell over them. It caught the eight Drakes off-guard. They paused, staring at the sea of faces.

It was, perhaps, one of the few times Liscor’s Council had ever been at the center of so much attention. Nervously, they came out, stopping just behind the line of [Guards] who obligingly made way for them. Then reformed as the Councilmembers hurriedly waved them back into place. Erin heard a voice, murmuring, and then someone cast a spell.

The voice that boomed across the plaza came from Stales Greenscale. Not that even a third of the crowd knew his name. He coughed, heard the echo and winced, and spoke.

“Excuse me. Good evening. Liscor’s Council has tallied the votes for this year’s election which will replace the current Council with a…democratically elected group of eight for the next two years. The votes have been checked and verified by magical spell, so I am pleased to announce total authenticity of the results!”

He waited. If it was for applause, it never came. Stales hesitated and then went on, tripping over his words.

“So, therefore, I’m pleased…again…to announce the results of the election!”

Another pause. There was some half-hearted applause. Someone shouted.

“Get on with it!”

Liscor’s Council turned and glared at Relc. The [Guardsman] pretended to be scanning the crowd for the shouter. Grudgingly, feeling as if there should have been…drums…yes, perhaps drums, or trumpets, Stales went on.

“Ahem. People of Liscor! By popular vote, we are pleased to announce the new Council is…”

In the crowd, Lyonette’s head rose and she narrowed her eyes with the senses of a [Princess] sensing a trap. Erin just looked blank.

“Popular—? Why’d he say—”

But then the words came, overriding the confusion.

“Raekea Silversmith, Elirr Fultpar, Krshia Silverfang—”

The roar of sound deafened Erin and made the Council flinch backwards. Gnolls were leaping for joy, literally! The Drakes in Lism’s camp were shouting—he was sagging against his nephew, and Selys was punching the air. Krshia was laughing, beaming as the other Gnolls hugged each other—

“—and Lism Swifttail, Alonna Swiftwing, Jeiss Sielmark, Tismel Lischscale, and Zalaiss Holmfyre!”

The noise of the celebrating crowd suddenly went still. Heads turned back to the stairs. Erin blinked.

“What? What did he say?”

Her words were echoed through the crowd. People were murmuring, staring.

“What? But some of them were running in the same district!”

“Lism and Krshia? What?”

Stales spoke up, his voice carrying across the plaza. The [Merchant] beamed at the staring crowd, sweating as he clasped his claws behind his back.

“The Council has decided to choose the most popular candidates to take the Council seats! No official backing was ever given to the proposed districts! Thus, this was deemed the fairest and most equitable distribution of seats! Based on the popular vote! Congratulations to the new Council!”

No one applauded. No one even moved. Stales’ smile faded. He hesitated. Councilmember Yalla stepped forwards.

“Thank you! You may disperse!”

Obviously, no one did. Okay, some of the Antinium Workers and Painted Soldiers gathered around Yellow Splatters to one side where he and Klbkch were watching began to walk off, but he called them back. And everyone else was still. Liscor’s Council held their breath. Erin exhaled hers. She looked at Lyonette, indignant.

“They can’t do that! That’s cheating!”

“They just did. It’s clever. And the only move they could make. It might be bad, though. Let’s get to the inn, Erin.”

Lyonette looked around. Erin was blank.

“Why? What’s…”

And then she sensed it. [Innkeepers] might not have been [Princesses], who had a healthy fear of mobs and an understanding of mob mentality, but the class was similar enough. Erin could sense and hear the confusion of the people around her. Silently, she pointed and she and Lyonette tried to move through the crowd, Mrsha clinging to Lyonette. And around her, people began muttering.

“Krshia and Lism?”

“Three Gnolls.”

“Not by district? Then—who won each district?”

“Three versus five.”

“Who’s this Tismel guy?”

“Northwest side. Silvershine street and that area. Lots of [Merchants] living there.”

“Oh.”

“Popular vote? But the election was by district!”

The crowd murmured. They weren’t sure how to feel. Was this a good thing or a bad thing? However, some of the people in the crowd, those who had voted for candidates who’d lost, like Beilmark, knew exactly how they felt. And like magnets in a sea of iron, they began polarizing everyone.

“Hey! I bet Gnolls took more than three districts! That’s why the Council made it a popular vote!”

“What? You’re insane.”

“Oh yeah? Why did Lism win and Krshia?”

“Maybe because he was the better candidate, you egg-sucking lizard!”

“Who said that? Who said that?”

Confusion turned to anger. The Council took one look at the crowd and retreated further behind the line of worried [Guards]. Relc started cracking his knuckles, looking happy.

“Everyone stay calm! Disperse! This is an order!”

And Councilwoman Yalla was only fanning the flames. Drakes and Gnolls began shouting questions at the Council. Some began picking fights in the crowd, doing the traditional foreplay to the actual fight in getting angry enough to take a swing at each other.

The audience was turning into a powder keg. Krshia looked around. Lism was already shouting at his supporters not to do anything rash—just yet! But into that moment anything could trigger the detonation. And that one thing came from the Human who would have been voted most likely to do just that. But she was also fairly good at what she did.

“We won!”

A voice exploded from the crowd. Erin shouted it, her [Loud Voice] skill drowning out an order from Councilwoman Yalla for the [Guards] to disperse the crowd. The [Innkeeper] waved her arms, shouting for attention.

“We did it! Krshia! Hey, Krshia! We won!”

Erin smiled around, beaming as if she couldn’t see the angry faces. She threw up her hands and did a little dance with Lyonette and Mrsha next to her.

“We did it! Lyonette, Mrsha! Selys! You won! We did it! Huzzah!”

She ran around in a circle, forcing people back. And then Erin turned. She tried to do a cartwheel and fell over.

“Ow! Lyonette, you do a cartwheel! Mrsha! Aren’t you proud! There are Gnolls on the Council!”

She grabbed Mrsha and tossed the Gnoll cub up. Mrsha stared at her. But then—she smiled. The Gnoll nodded. Erin caught her and looked around.

“We did it. Krshia won! And so did Raekea and Elirr! Mr. Cat-Gnoll Guy is on the Council!”

“Mister Cat Gnoll Guy?”

It was hard to throw a punch after hearing a line like that. And some people began to smile. Gnolls were nodding as Erin put Mrsha down. Yes. They had done it, hadn’t they? Forget numbers. There was a Gnoll, no, Gnolls on the Council.

And in the space she’d made, Erin smiled. Genuinely, shaking hands with Gnolls around her, and Drakes. Asking who they’d voted for.

“Did your guy win? No? Sorry! But hey, you voted! And that’s what counts! Who’d you vote for? Krshia? No way! Me? I can’t vote. Hey Mrsha, do a cartwheel!”

Laughing, she helped Mrsha do one, holding her stomach. And someone else did one, an older Gnoll, laughing with delight. Erin blinked at the woman, but then Gnolls were laughing, bounding forwards with commendable agility despite their age. And the Drakes began smiling too.

The tension in the crowd dissipated like static grounding itself amid genuine relief, happiness. It was over. You could cry foul, but was that a mature thing to do? People began shaking hands, smiling. The Gnoll who called one Drake an ‘egg-sucking lizard’ got punched in the face. But by and large, the anger was fading.

Erin breathed a sigh of relief. So did Liscor’s now-former Council. Relc just sighed and stared at his fist. Erin looked around and saw a group making their way towards her.

“Krshia!”

Everyone turned. Erin raised a hand and was engulfed in a huge hug. Krshia growled with delight, crushing Erin and laughing. Elirr swept Mrsha up and Lyonette smiled as Selys appeared, ruffling Mrsha’s fur. Erin was released finally and gasped for air, laughing. She looked up and Krshia was smiling at her.

“Miss Erin, you have helped us do it. We have won.”

“Yeah. Yeah! I mean…”

Erin’s face fell. She looked at the Council, tiptoeing back through the doors of city hall. Krshia smiled, and there was some reserve there.

“Yes. It seems it was not all it could have been, yes? But you said what was true. We won.”

Erin nodded. She wasn’t as happy as she’d acted; like Krshia, she felt stung by the ending. Even so—she waved at the crowd.

“I wasn’t about to let them start punching each other. Mrsha’s here. So. What happens now?”

The Gnoll [Shopkeeper] blinked at her. Then she looked around. Everyone was staring at her. Selys, Elirr, Raekea, Beilmark—and Krshia’s look of surprise told Erin she had no idea. But it only lasted a moment. Then she turned and beamed at Erin.

“We have a party at your inn, of course! We have some gold remaining from the funds—let us celebrate! And tomorrow—tomorrow, we shall see what being on the Council is.”

“Yeah.”

Erin smiled. Then she turned and waved.

“Alright! Celebration at my inn! First drink’s free!”

And the cheer to that came from everyone but Lyonette. People began leaving the plaza, exclaiming, hurrying to tell the news, upset or vindicated or looking for that drink. It didn’t matter. The results were the results and no one was going to burn down the city hall looking to change it. History had been made and the winners—

Krshia. Elirr. Raekea. The Gnoll [Armorer] looked dumbfounded by her position.

“Me. A Councilmember. I can’t believe it. I hammer metal. What will happen to my business?”

Elirr laughed, his grey fur blowing in a faint breeze as he carried Mrsha back towards the inn.

“You should have thought of that when you ran, Raekea!”

“Yes, but I didn’t really think I’d…I mean, I hoped, but—a Councilmember?”

The Gnoll smiled with delight and amazement, shaking her head. On the other side of the square, Olesm turned to his uncle. Lism was smiling, albeit with the same reserve Krshia had had. Olesm paused.

“Congratulations, Uncle.”

“Thank you, my boy. I think…no, thank you. We couldn’t have done it without you. I’m a Councilmember. I never thought I’d see the day. Me. A [Shopkeeper] on Liscor’s…”

Lism trailed off. Olesm blinked. There were tears in Lism’s eyes. The Drake turned and looked back at city hall. Then he wiped the tears away, turned back briskly to Olesm.

“Ancestors! We need to celebrate! Everyone, to the Tailless Thief! Peslas will have to open his stores for all of us! Where’s Wing Commander Embria? We have to talk! And—Jeiss! Alonna! Where are the other Councilmembers? We need to make a speech to all these people who helped us get this far! And—dead gods, I’ll have to share the Council with Silverfang?”

Lism uttered an oath. Olesm hesitated. He forbore pointing out that but for the Council, it was likely that Lism wouldn’t have been elected at all. His emotions were too mixed to let him celebrate. But he relaxed as he saw his uncle’s happiness.

The Drakes were celebrating, not as exuberantly as the Gnolls—it was hardly a landmark victory for them—but with good cheer nonetheless. Especially the ones who’d voted for Senior Guardsman Jeiss. The Drake was in the center of backslaps, handshakes, and a few unsolicited hugs. He was turning, smiling, when a furry paw reached out and people paused.

“Congratulations, Jeiss.”

Senior Guardswoman Beilmark, his partner and opponent—if not by district, then by party, looked at Jeiss. He froze.

“Beilmark. I…”

The two partners regarded each other for a moment. Jeiss bit his tongue. But it was Beilmark who smiled and shrugged slightly.

“You won, and I didn’t. I’m partners with a Councilmember now. Which means I’ll let you do all the paperwork, yes?”

Jeiss paused. And then he laughed. He reached out and they shook hands. The crowd sighed, and the two nodded to each other. If they had more they wanted to say, well, they’d do it later. Like adults.



—-



“We won! We won! Celebration! Get the cake! Get the ice cream! Party!”

In her inn, Erin Solstice jumped on a table and the room erupted into cheers. Drassi was besieged at her bar, and the staff were taking orders like there was no tomorrow. The inn was heaving, Erin was beaming as she turned to Klbkch, who had come in with Yellow Splatters and Pawn—

But the story wasn’t about her. Tonight’s story was about the victors. Krshia could hardly drink but for all the people coming up to her, whom she thanked, or who wanted to ask when she’d do what she’d promised on the Council, or perhaps would she consider…? Elirr was similarly besieged, although Moore and Mrsha were keeping the worst at bay, Moore by his presence shielding the Gnoll, Mrsha by waving a fork when the crowd got too thick.

Raekea had disappeared with her husband, and the other Gnolls who hadn’t won were either getting drunk or joining the celebration, dancing, eating, or just talking. It was a night to remember. Which made it somewhat ironic that Erin found Selys sitting alone by the bar. The Drake had won, and she’d been an instrumental part of the victory. But it was the Gnoll’s night.

“Hey good looking! Mind if I buy you a drink?”

Erin slid into the seat next to Selys. The Drake stared at her.

“That’s the worst—no, wait, Hawk and Relc are worse. But that’s pretty bad, Erin.”

The young woman grinned and Selys edged her stool over. The two sat together and Drassi slid Erin a drink, Rufelt-style across the bar. She missed. Erin sighed. But the shattered cup reformed itself on the ground! The drink did not, and a shamefaced Drassi went over to refill it.

“Sorry.”

Erin looked at Selys, smiling. The Drake shrugged.

“Hey, work on it.”

“I mean, sorry that the Council were jerks. Do you think the Gnolls won more than three seats?”

“Honestly, Erin? I’d bet every gold piece on it. They’re all Drakes and…well, let’s just say I don’t think they wanted to help Krshia’s side. Maybe we took four seats. Or…five? Either way, it’s done. Krshia can argue against it, but the Council does get to choose! I guess. Maybe if there’d been a riot—”

“Sorry. But Mrsha was there.”

“Yeah. No, I think it’s fine. I mean, I wasn’t running. I’m just worried…”

“…That you don’t have enough seats?”

Erin looked worried. Selys nodded. She gestured at Krshia, who was toasting with a group of Gnolls.

“Krshia will obviously have to figure it out, but it’s three to five if you’re just going by species. And all the Drakes who were elected were in Lism’s camp. Well, more or less.”

“Which means they’ll vote against letting the Antinium help?”

Erin’s face fell. Selys paused.

“Probably. Maybe? I don’t know this Tismel and Zalaiss too well. They’re both wealthy, though; safe picks in their districts which is probably why they won their votes. Tismel’s head of the Cobbler’s Guild, and Zalaiss is a [Merchant] in the guild. Safe picks. But they’re both in Lism’s party. Jeiss and Alonna are actual friends of his, though. Either way, they’ll probably be against some of Krshia’s ideas. It’s—I don’t know, Erin. She’ll have to figure it out. I’m just a bit worried.”

The [Receptionist] sighed. Erin nodded. Then she paused as Drassi came back with her drink.

“[Cobblers] have a guild?”

“Of course they do, Erin. With two different species’ worth of feet in Liscor? I bet he doesn’t even make shoes anymore. He’s probably rich. And see, that’s the problem. There’s no way Tismel will be on Krshia’s side, right? So if Lism just overrules her, what was the point of all this? Did the Council steal a seat? Two seats?”

The Drake gripped her glass tightly, frustrated. Erin hesitated.

“But you did win, Selys. Be happy about that.”

She gestured at the inn. Selys just shook her head. Then she turned to look Erin in the eye.

“I don’t know. Did we win? Can we win if it’s not complete, Erin? If it’s just a little victory? How can I feel good about it when I know—we deserved more? We did, and they cheated.”

She had tears in her eyes from the pure frustration of it. Erin paused. And she took a long drink from her mug before replying slowly. She looked around the inn, at all the faces, at Numbtongue poking his head down the stairs and deciding to go back to his room, at Ceria making ice cubes, Yellow Splatters heading up with a small keg Erin had given him from the bar, Ishkr smiling as he went round the tables—and she smiled too.

“It wasn’t fair. And you can be mad. But tonight, Selys? Be happy. Because there wasn’t a Gnoll on Liscor’s Council yesterday. Tomorrow, there will be.”

She looked at the Drake. The [Heiress] paused. Then she looked up. She slowly raised her class and clinked it against Erin’s. And then Selys smiled.

“You’re right about that.”

She drank her cup down, ordered a Firebreath Whiskey, drank it, and kept smiling. Then she went to go cuddle Mrsha. Erin sighed. She took a sip of her drink at the bar and let the alcohol sting her mouth for a moment. Then she turned off her [Immunity: Alcohol] Skill. She sighed as she flushed with a bit of heat, and then raised her cup. She beamed at Lyonette, who’d come over.

“To victory! Now, let’s go tell everyone in Pallass the good news!”

The [Princess] smiled.

“Okay, Erin. You get to break the news. But then?”

“Yeah?”

Erin twinkled at her. Lyonette beamed back.

“You’re getting in the kitchen. We need more food.”

“Aw. But—but it’s a celebration.”

“Yup. Now, get cooking.”

The [Innkeeper]’s face fell. She sighed, looked around, and muttered as she finished her drink.

“I really need to hire a [Cook]. I wonder if Garry’s free?”



—-



The party that engulfed Liscor that night was an event in itself. From Erin’s inn outside the city to the rest of it, there was drinking and delight, mayhem, a bit of madness, and happiness and sadness. Triumph and defeat, however fairly done.

But it was done. You could argue about the ethics of it all you wanted, but the legalese of it was that Liscor’s Council had made their decision and since no law actually decided the election process outside of their nomination of the candidates, it was all within the boundary of the law.

And it would be a fight uphill and downhill with a Rock Crab on your back to get the new Council to declare itself invalid. Especially because they were the only body who could do so, short of the High Command appearing outside of Liscor’s gates or a mob essentially overturning the government. Best to take the victory where you could and save your energy for another battle.

That was what Krshia and her supporters had reluctantly decided last night, and the former Council had heaved a sigh of relief when they heard it. The next day, everyone had a late day of it. People got back to work. Market Street finally unclogged of the persistent rallies and people got back to work. After all, the elections were done. And that day, the new Council met in Liscor’s city hall.

With the old one. It was a strange gathering, with eight Drakes sitting in chairs around the rounded conference table where the new Council sat. Especially because of how at odds they had been just a day ago.

There they sat, three Gnolls on one quadrant, Krshia, Elirr, and Raekea, and Lism exactly opposite Krshia, flanked by Jeiss and Alonna, with Tismel and Zalaiss occupying a safety wall between them. Krshia and Lism kept avoiding each other’s gaze—and then giving each other death-glares.

The former Council found it all quite amusing. Half of them were still somewhat drunk, Stales included. He felt a huge weight off his shoulders! He was done! And yes, the new Council wasn’t ideal, but they had to deal with dungeons and headaches about monsters and a war with the Humans! He felt ten years younger. The first thing he’d do now—

But there was one last thing to do. Reluctantly, the Drake pulled himself upright and coughed. Everyone in the room looked at him and Stales smiled cheerfully.

“Good morning everyone! I’m please, delighted, to welcome you all to your new positions!”

“We’re honored, Councilmember—erm, I mean, Guildmaster Greenscale.”

Tismel immediately ducked his head quite deferentially, and the Gnolls and Drakes all nodded. Stales grinned happily. Yes, this wasn’t so bad, was it? He’d feared the worse, but it had all worked out for the best. They might be Gnolls and Drakes now, but this Council would work just as well as the old one.

“Delighted, delighted, thank you, Guildmaster—no, pardon me, Councilmember Tismel. I’m sure you’re all ecstatic over winning the election. Now, I think you won’t see the rest of us, the former Council, unless you’ve need of advice—but it’s customary for the old Council to sit in on the new Council’s first meeting. Sometimes second or third if things have difficulty starting up.”

Stales was rewarded by a look of apprehension among the new Council. Yes, there they all were. New to the job and wet behind the…earholes. He remembered what it was like. And the old Council had seemed so wise! He suppressed a smirk as he looked at Yalla and the others and saw the same knowing expression on their faces. Lism coughed. He’d been staring around the rich room in between glaring at Krshia.

“Now we’re here. It feels rather…odd. We won the election. But the process of leading a city—”

He hesitated. Krshia made a sound in her throat and fidgeted in her chair. Elirr scratched at one arm. Raekea patted the belt buckle her husband had fashioned for her. Jeiss leaned back in his chair and Alonna rubbed her claws together, generating a magical spark. Tismel and Zalaiss looked at the old Council apprehensively.

Yes, that was the thing. They’d spent so long campaigning that none of them had ever stopped to think about how to run a city! Stales tsked internally. It wasn’t all fun and games, was it? He decided to show a bit of mercy and smiled.

“First things first! Please, direct your attention to the most important thing you’ll encounter today!”

He pointed to the far wall. Apprehensively, the Drakes and Gnolls turned. Stales beamed as he got up and strode over to the table. There was a pause. Jeiss frowned.

“Are those…?”

“Snacks! Please, help yourself. They’re very fine. They come by way of Invrisil. A Council meeting cannot run without snacks. We always have some sent up, although you’ll have to find your own sources. Candied nuts, anyone? I broke out the last of our stash.”

“Ooh, Stales. You [Rogue]! You’ve been holding out on us!”

Yalla exclaimed. She and the old Council got up and immediately began circulating the table, quarreling good-naturedly over the treats, which ranged from candied snacks to delicate little deviled eggs—goose, thank you, not chicken—filled with a poignant filling. The properly rich stuff; Stales wanted to treat the new Council. He noticed they weren’t getting up. Ah, yes, first-day jitters. He waved them over then decided they’d eat when they relaxed. After a bit, Jeiss got up and snagged a few items, along with Tismel and Zalaiss. When they were all seated, Stales went on.

“Now that’s settled. I suppose, we’d better get to the actual work of the day.”

The rest of the old Council groaned good-naturedly, but they put on a good face as former Councilmember Yalla rang the bell. All the Gnoll’s ears perked up and they looked towards the door exactly as it opened. Handy, that. Stales saw the Drake who’d been waiting on standby bustle into the room.

Olesm Swifttail’s first view of the room as he hurried in with his scrolls of parchment and stack of reports was eerily familiar. He’d forgotten the old Council would be there, so twice as many people in the room gave him a moment’s pause. But he’d done this for the last Council, so he bowed once, and then his eyes went to Lism’s face. The Drake [Shopkeeper] looked astonished, and then delighted.

“Councilmembers, good day to you. I am Olesm Swifttail. You may have met me before, but in this moment I’m acting in my capacity as [Strategist] of Liscor. I welcome you to your positions—”

“Young Swifttail is our [Strategist]. He delivers all our information and gives the morning briefing. He’s also the one who you’ll see the most of; I imagine Watch Captain Zevara might be here later as well, but Olesm is the one who handles most affairs.”

With dreadful timing and a poor whisper, Stales leaned over to confide in Lism. Olesm paused and Lism harrumphed proudly.

“Of course! A [Strategist] to the Council. He never told me he gives daily reports!”

“Told you? My word, you’re his uncle, aren’t you? I’d forgotten! And it’s hardly daily—it’s whenever we meet.”

Yalla leaned over, smiling at Lism. The [Shopkeeper] looked proudly at Olesm and the [Strategist] groaned. This could be terribly awkward. He cleared his throat, trying not to meet Krshia’s gaze. Or any of the Gnolls’. Oh yes, this could be a lot worse than he’d imagined.

“May I continue, Councilmembers?”

“Oh, very wel—”

Stales’ familiar, tired wave was cut off by Lism sitting upright in his chair. The [Shopkeeper] smiled widely.

“Of course! Go on, Nephew, er—I mean, [Strategist] Olesm.”

Lism beamed at Olesm. The [Strategist] cringed inwardly for only a moment before adopting his friendly, helpful expression and tone. He circulated the table, relieved that he always brought a number of copies so he could divide the reports among both former and new Council.

The old Council glanced over the reports and almost instantly passed it to the new Council, who began reading as they listened attentively. Stales smiled as he listened to Olesm, and then observing the new Council’s feverish attention. Hadn’t he been like that? Oh yes, they’d learn all right.

Olesm began with his rehearsed speech, the one he’d given to two Councils before this one. Well, one and a half since he’d taken over halfway through.

“Councilmembers, I traditionally begin each meeting with a small briefing if necessary. I’ll proceed as if the old Council were in session, ah, with your permission?”

“Go ahead! What’s the latest gossip this time?”

One of the old Councilmembers called out. Olesm hesitated, but went on as the new Council hesitated.

“Well then, my first piece of news is that it is more or less confirmed that Manus’ covert operation against the north has been a success. I have the report summarized in front of you, but the damages to Human lands are estimated at—”

“Wait. Manus did what?”

Raekea yelped as she finally caught up to Olesm. She stared at the parchment in horror. The old Council chuckled knowingly as Lism and the new Council sat up.

“There’s been an attack on the north, Olesm? When? Where?”

Krshia’s eyes flickered across the parchment. Olesm raised is claws hurriedly.

“Not an attack? Or rather, it’s not an act of direct war. I’m sorry, I should have prefaced this. Manus ordered dozens of its [Infiltrators] and [Saboteurs] to head north and cause havoc among Human lands. They started fires, engaged in covert assassinations of high-level targets, spread illnesses or simply sowed dissent—”

“I never heard of this! When was this?”

Guildmistress Alonna looked up sharply. The Drake [Mage] stared at Olesm. He winced.

“About one week ago was when I heard rumors of it, Councilmember. And I received confirmation—of sorts—only today. Please understand, all the information you hear here is classified. Not to be repeated as gossip.”

He looked pointedly at Stales and the old Council, who avoided his gaze. Yalla leaned over conspiratorially.

“You can be sure it’s accurate, too. Strategist Olesm is quite informative at these little updates. I will miss them.”

“How do you know this happened? I have people I talk to, but they do not mention an attack. There was talk of a drought and unseasonable weather, but an attack?”

Krshia demanded, looking up at Olesm sharply. He coughed, a bit proud at how astonished she looked.

“Your sources might relay that it was an attack, Krsh—Councilmember, or they might not. Think of me as a fact-checker with a bit more insight into current events. I have access to several lines of communication that allow me to make inferences, and I’m well-versed in Drake strategy. No doubt a lot of the attacks will be news or gossip, although it may be downplayed. Some of the events were quite large.”

“Wildfires. Lightning attacks. A Drake assassinating Humans on their land? How can this be rumor and gossip?”

Elirr’s fur stood up as he read the report. He looked up. Olesm shrugged.

“I don’t think the nobility will want to disclose the findings. But let me explain from the beginning. This is what I’ve put together, and the report isn’t wholly accurate, but—”

“It is reliable?”

Lism looked up quietly. He was reading the report, tracing each line with a claw. Olesm nodded solemnly.

“All the Drake cities get news updates from the other cities and any [Strategist] has their…sources, Uncle—I mean, Councilmember Lism! I’m not in touch with all the minutiae of what’s happening, but I do pick up on the big things. So, from the start.”

He took a deep breath. This time both old and new Councilmembers listened attentively.

“There’s been a lot of public chatter on the subject. The long of it is that Manus has launched several attacks on lands owned by the [Lords] and [Ladies] who participated in the siege of Liscor. Lord Tyrion Veltras, Lady Ieka Imarris, Lord Pellmia, Lord Gralton Radivaek…I have a list in front of you as well as estimated damages.”

“A heavy toll. Serves them right!”

Stales remarked with deep satisfaction. Krshia gave Raekea and Elirr a disturbed look. Lism was biting one lip. Jeiss raised a claw.

“How do you know it was Manus, Olesm? Er, Strategist?”

Olesm paused.

“Well, firstly, the nobles managed to fight off the attack and kill or wound some of the assailants. When they demanded an explanation from the Walled Cities, Manus, ah, replied to the allegations by claiming that the reports of Drakes were probably ‘unusually active Wyverns migrating north’. That’s a code. That means they sent True Oldbloods to launch the attacks. My estimates are that most returned safely, but there were about one in six casualties.”

There was a good-natured groan from the old Council. The new one just looked shocked.

“And they did all this without anyone knowing? Those are powerful nobles they attacked! Why were they not spotted?”

Alonna demanded. Olesm shrugged.

“Manus has a number of agents, Councilmember Alonna. They’re quite skilled and the Walled City can supply them with artifacts. If they’d tried to enter a populated city through the gates, they’d have been caught, but they worked from a distance. As it was, some of the nobles managed to fight off the attacks. As did the rumored [Emperor]…”

“[Emperor]? You mean, that’s not just rumors?”

Olesm took a deep breath. He’d forgotten how it worked. The new Council always had questions. He patiently explained the rumors about Laken Godart, and then gave everyone a summary of the factions supporting Tyrion Veltras—and the split between him and Magnolia Reinhart during the siege. He’d forgotten they hadn’t listened to the reports the old Council had. And the new Council was refreshingly serious; the old one kept eating, rolling their eyes at the explanations Olesm had hammered into their heads.

“All of this, and for what? Liscor? They never even got to the city in time, but they’re launching an attack that might have repercussions for us. Were we even consulted?”

Lism muttered angrily. Krshia was frowning too, looking worried. Olesm could only shrug, but Stales waved a claw.

“The Walled Cities take their own action, Councilmember Lism. Don’t worry. The main thing to ask is this. Strategist Olesm. Will it affect Liscor?”

“Well…no. Not immediately. I predict that the Humans will take offense and maybe seek to retaliate via sanctions or covert action of their own. Maybe hire [Pirates] or mercenaries or so on. But after Magnolia Reinhart’s schism with the other nobility, there’s not enough political consensus or will to launch a second attack, much less unprovoked.”

The new Council sighed in relief. The old one sat back, unconcerned.

“There. You see? It’s just news. No need to worry. This is usually just good for gossip—”

Stales hesitated as Olesm glared at him.

“—among family and personal friends. Highly confidential, of course.”

“I…see. Go on, then, Olesm.”

Krshia exchanged a glance with Elirr as Lism waved his nephew on. Her mind was already spinning. She’d had some idea that Liscor’s Council was well-informed, but this? She was wondering if she really had what it took to be on this Council. Let alone run a city. She listened as Olesm went on, trying to suppress the butterflies in her stomach.

“Let’s see…the army has concluded its defense contract with Oteslia and is moving west. They may be looking for work around Fissival—there’s a standing dispute between the cities of Grailhess and Veish that they might want to seek out, although both cities have fairly powerful armies, so the High Command may prefer work fighting against the Gnoll tribes in the plains. There has been a number of incidents between Gnoll tribes and Drake cities of late—”

“One tribe.”

Raekea muttered that. Olesm paused.

“Excuse me? Um, Councilmember Raekea?”

The Gnoll [Armorer] glanced up. Raekea hesitated, but Krshia and Elirr were nodding. Elirr broke in, growling softly.

“It’s the Woven Bladegrass tribe. Not tribes. Their new Chieftain is young and she’s fought against Drakes before. Her tribe is good at fighting too.”

Everyone blinked at the Gnolls. Krshia looked around, eyebrows raised.

“That is common knowledge, yes? Among Gnolls.”

She looked at Olesm for confirmation. He half-nodded and glanced at his parchment.

“I had no idea. I mean, yes, the incidents would make sense if it was a single tribe. Woven Bladegrass? Let me make a note…ah, ahem. I bring it up as a matter of security. Obviously some of this doesn’t affect Liscor, but it could lead to a larger conflict.”

“It might.”

Raekea looked darkly at Krshia. The Gnoll nodded, but raised a furry finger. Now wasn’t the time for Gnollish politics. Olesm continued, a bit off-kilter.

“Well, aside from the war with Tiqr, I have no notable news of immediate concern for the Council. As I’m sure you’ve heard, several nations from Chandrar have launched an attack on the King of Destruction’s allies, including the nation of Tiqr. The fighting has gone on for weeks now, and Tiqr has been forced back and back. They’ve held on well, but my estimate is that they’ll fall within the week if the King of Destruction doesn’t act in some way, which would violate his pledge not to do so. Er, that’s about it.”

He looked at Stales. The former Councilman nodded.

“The daily briefing is always about issues that concern Liscor as a whole. Apparently the King of Destruction is always pertinent news, which makes sense, I suppose. But the wretched fellow hasn’t done anything but conquer, one, two kingdoms? He’s hardly the threat he was. Still, better safe than sorry. That’s our [Strategist]. After that, we generally move to some conversation and the day’s decisions. Of course, the table is yours now…”

He chuckled and gestured towards the Council. They hesitated, but the time for hesitation was gone. Krshia nodded to herself. She’d fought for this seat. She had to earn it. She opened her mouth—and Lism beat her to the punch.

“Of course, we’ve a number of issues to discuss.”

He smirked at Krshia. She glared at him. There was going to be an unfortunate confrontation soon, and she’d readied herself for it. Lism went on, glancing at the old Council.

“However, I don’t know the uh, protocol for such things. So what do you do first?”

The old Council looked mildly surprised. One of the older Drakes rubbed his neck spines and chuckled.

“Oh yes, those issues. Well, Strategist Olesm usually has a list! We go through them and then leave. Olesm! What’s on today’s list?”

He waved a claw. Olesm sighed as he unfurled the rather long scroll of parchment. The old Council sighed and the new ones sat up.

“Well, Councilmembers, I do generally keep track of the Council’s issues by request. And I’ll note any future concerns. However, today’s list is substantial. The new Council must of course approve a budget for the Watch and issue an announcement to the city and so forth, but there are new concerns for this Council. Among them are the proposed changes to the city each er, party, has campaigned on.”

“Of course. Well, this is the heart of it.”

Stales sighed as he turned and looked around the room. He waved at Olesm.

“Strategist Swifttail will bring us an issue and we’ll debate it. Sometimes it’s as easy as voting to do something. Show of claws—excuse me, claws and paws—and we agree or not. Other times, we have to do some math. Agree on a budget—don’t worry, Swifttail will have the numbers. But there are a lot of new proposals you lot have campaigned on, haven’t you?”

He gave the Gnolls and Drakes a somewhat superior look.

“Well, we can discuss the issue now, but I think you’ll find it’s more complicated than just shelling out gold!”

“We?”

Krshia’s ears perked up. She turned to stare around at the old Council. Elirr and Raekea looked up. And so did Lism. Stales waved an airy claw.

“Just a bit of advice from the old Council! Perspective. After all, we know the ins and outs of running the city. You agree?”

He looked around. Krshia nodded reluctantly. That was true. She hesitated, and then coughed.

“Well, it seems we must talk about the deal to expand the city—”

“Without Antinium help. As my campaign pledged.”

Lism finished the sentence and sat back, satisfied. Krshia stared at him. And then polite civility broke down.

“You mean, your campaign stole from mine, you thief, Lism, you!”

“Hah! I knew it! You couldn’t wait one hour before you had to accuse my campaign of improving on your ideas!”

“I was the one who suggested expanding the city! What did your campaign come up with?”

Krshia snarled across the table. Stales looked wide-eyed at Lism, who laughed loudly back at her.

“Removing the Antinium element of course! And the city voted our party into power.”

“Because you stole our seats!”

Krshia howled back at him. Lism raised his claws.

“By popular vote—”

“Councilmembers!”

Stales didn’t manage to outshout either Drake or Gnoll, but he did silence them. He looked around, flustered.

“Please! Councilmembers, this is not a street argument! This is a civilized discussion! And any issues can be discussed! Frankly, I don’t think this debate will get us anywhere, because as I was saying, the reality of Liscor’s financial situation is that we might not be able to pay for any expansions to the walls!”

Silence fell over the new Council. Stales sat back, and another Councilmember chortled.

“Don’t you wish you’d talked to us, first?”

Lism stared at Stales. So did Krshia. Did they know something the public didn’t? Krshia felt a pit in her stomach and saw Elirr looking at her, alarmed. Lism spoke up into the silence.

“What do you mean, Councilmembers? We have a proposal. Expand the walls. It will generate new jobs, new commerce—”

“Yes, Councilmember Lism, but who will pay for the walls?”

“Well, we could increase the taxes on the dungeon and—”

Yalla cut in, not-very-apologetically.

“I’m afraid, what Stales means is that we can’t just…move around some numbers and come up with gold we don’t have, Councilmember Lism. Perhaps we could raise revenues here, but that doesn’t create gold. Our yearly budget is comprised of a number of sources including revenue from the guilds, taxes, trade, and so on, but it mainly comes from—”

“The army.”

Yalla broke off. Krshia blinked at her.

“I am sorry. Was that not what you meant to say?”

The Drake narrowed her eyes and Krshia felt a bit better. She didn’t like the condescending tone Yalla or the old Council had. Yalla cleared her throat.

“What I mean to say was that yes, Liscor’s army does send back a good deal of funds in exchange for the support we give them. We tend to use it up on necessary products, because the money from the rest of our taxes and so on is…limited. It’s always been a fact of living around Liscor. This is not a rich city like Salazar or even Pallass.”

She shrugged. Lism frowned.

“Poor? But Liscor is the keystone city between north and south!”

Krshia rolled her eyes.

“Again, Lism? When the Council is saying to your face, that Liscor is not rich? Go travelling and you will understand! It is what I have been saying for years. Liscor is important. But not for the reasons you think. It is not economically strong!”

“Well, speaking as the Merchant’s Guild’s Guildmaster—”

“Be quiet, Silverfang. Liscor does have wealth! We export a vast amount of fish and fish-based products each spring. More than any other city, Human or Drake in a thousand miles!”

“That’s because they’re all landlocked. You idiot you, you wouldn’t know reality if someone hit you with a fish!”

Olesm watched in mild horror as Krshia stood up and leaned over the table and Elirr and Raekea dragged her back. Jeiss managed to do the same job on Lism’s end as Alonna shook her head. The rest of the Council looked horrified. But really, it was like watching Lism and Krshia got at it in the market. Their voices did echo a lot more in this room, though.

“Councilmember Lism! Councilmember Krshia! We do not shout! We debate issues.”

Stales held up his claws. Lism sat down with bad grace.

“I’m simply making the point to this Gnoll that Liscor has more sources of revenue than the army. Which she finds delight in deriding—”

“But how would you increase Liscor’s funds, Shopkeeper—er, Councilmember Lism? After all, we do have to fund the projects the city undertakes, and money is always tight. Please, some snacks will settle your mood. Pass the nuts, Stales? Oh, would you like some?”

Bowls of the sugar-coated nuts were passed around the table quickly. Olesm made a face at the rich food. Lism stared at the bowl and so did the Gnolls as they appeared in front of them. He glanced at Stales with a bit of irritation. This was the new Council after all. But he answered with forced politeness.

“Shield Spider silk, Councilwoman Yalla.”

He took a few nuts and popped them into his mouth. Instantly his expression changed for the worse. Olesm groaned. Lism hated sugary things.

“Shield Spider silk?”

The rest of the Council looked blank, except for Stales, who frowned. A bit worriedly. Krshia noticed that, as did Olesm. Lism exhaled as he crunched on some of the saccharine nuts. He frowned and spat his mouthful into the waste basket. Krshia lowered her nose directly over the bowl, gave it one deep sniff, and pushed it to one side. The other two Gnolls, Elirr and Raekea, did the same. The former Council watched in horror.

“Gah. Sorry. Too much sugar. Almost as bad as that Human makes in her inn. Anyways, where was I? Ah, right. Shield Spider silk. Liscor’s Floodplains are infested with Shield Spider nests. You can’t swing a dead rat for five seconds outside the walls without a spider climbing out of the ground and trying to eat you and it. And they’re worth money to the Adventurer’s Guild. Do you know how much you can get for a single Shield Spider corpse?”

Everyone except for Stales and Krshia shook their heads. Lism spread his claws.

“Eleven silver pieces for a fully-grown adult’s corpse if it’s unscratched and unmarked! Of course, that covers the hazard bounty on them, but it wouldn’t be that high if the corpse itself didn’t have value!”

“It wouldn’t?”

Tismel gave Lism a very curious look. The [Cobbler] winced as Lism raised his voice. The [Shopkeeper] struck the table, as if he were railing against the injustices of the world in his stall. He had an outside voice. But for once, it wasn’t annoying Krshia because she saw his point and grudgingly, agreed with it.

“Of course not! You can use the body of a Shield Spider for any number of things! Silk and armor! They’re not called ‘Shield Spiders’ because they’re soft! Their hide—”

“Chitin.”

“—whatever is so tough you can use it as armor! But no one trades Shield Spider components in Liscor. It’s not worth the effort. Processing the damn silk takes classes and an industry we don’t have. But I’ve noticed that Shield Spider silk can make anything from thread to decent clothing if you can dye and weave it right. And Shield Spider chitin can be used to make a number of objects. About, oh, three decades back, I remember seeing Silver-rank adventurers wearing lamellar armor made out of chitin. What happened to that? Now it’s all iron, steel, and leather. So where do the Shield Spiders go?”

“Well, the Adventurer’s Guild sell to the [Merchants]. At a very reasonable price at our end.”

Stales replied carefully. Lism turned to frown at him.

“But how much of a markup do [Merchants] and [Traders] make when they take the cargo to, say, Invrisil? Even if you paid a gold coin per Shield Spider body, how much would that much chitin and armor be worth if you brought it in one piece?”

“Er—I don’t have the numbers in front of me.”

The Drake was hedging. Lism shook his head, ignoring Stales.

“The money goes straight to the [Merchants]. And the Adventurer’s Guild takes their cut since they ‘allow’ us to have a guild in their city. But where’s Liscor’s cut? We increase the price by one silver coin per Shield Spider body and that’s…how many Shield Spiders are killed in just the annual culling?”

“Oh, come now—”

“On average? About three or four thousand Shield Spiders. Not all adults of course, but I could estimate at least a two thousand and a half. This year it was about double that.”

Olesm piped up. Stales and the old Councilmembers gave him a glare, but Lism snapped his claws.

“There you have it. Raise the price by one silver coin—and that’s not even asking for a fair margin from either Adventurer’s Guild or [Merchants] and we’re up five thousand gold pieces after the culling alone. There. Five thousand shovels for the walls. How’s that?”

“You can’t just—”

Krshia spoke over the hot voice raised behind her.

“Or five thousand Workers, who can build without needing to hire [Builders].”

She and Lism stared daggers again, but Stales was coughing and trying to interrupt as he choked on a nut.

“See here, Councilmember Lism! You can’t just place a tariff on goods like that! It could damage trade! Shield Spider parts are one of the few things that keep a lot of [Merchants] coming this way! If you raise prices—”

“What will they do? Go elsewhere for their Shield Spiders? The last I heard, we were the only city with an enduring plague of the things.”

Lism folded his arms. Stales hesitated. He raised a single claw.

“As head of the Merchant’s Guild, I must warn you of the consequences. You may trigger a boycott of Liscor’s goods.”

“By whom? Wouldn’t they have to get the Guildmaster to agree to that?”

Jeiss leaned over the table. The room went silent as every eye fell on Stales. He wavered.

“Well—I er, the [Merchants] who trade with Liscor are exceptionally powerful. Some of them. I’d try to talk them out of it, but I can only do so much—”

He caught part of Lism’s stare and broke off. Stales had been a decently successful [Merchant] before he’d become a Guildmaster and employed people to do his job, and he remembered negotiating with lower-level [Traders], [Shopkeepers] and so on. Some of them were easy to bowl over, but sometimes you ran into one that had Lism’s look. You learned to avoid them or you had to fight like one of Rhir’s Demons to get anything like a good deal. He tried to lean out of the way of the stare.

Krshia broke into the silence with a thoughtful ‘hrm’. She looked around and nodded.

“As I have been saying from the beginning, the issue is one of space, yes? Tariffs are all very well, but Liscor needs more space. A city with walls is always held by the walls. More space will allow more business to flourish. And it will cut down on the rent that makes poorer families suffer.”

“Well, hold on now. That’s a bold claim to make.”

Yalla protested hotly, but Lism, Jeiss, Elirr, Raekea, and Alonna were all nodding. The old Council was frowning, but Lism tapped the table with one claw.

“That was second on my list, Silverfang. But if you want to jump from topic to topic, fine. Let’s talk about reducing the rent.”

“Another issue which I’m afraid we wanted to talk to you about.”

One of the old Councilmembers cut in. This time he received a glare from the new Council, Gnolls and the two Drakes sitting next to Lism. Tismel and Zalaiss were very quiet, glancing from old to new as if trying to figure out where the wind was blowing. Lism folded his arms.

“I don’t see what the issue is. Rent is too high. I can’t count how many families have been evicted or run out of their homes because they can’t pay to stay in the same homes they used to. All these new Humans and adventurers are crowding honest Drakes—and Gnolls—out of their homes! We lower the rent.”

“On that, we can agree, Lism. But it’s Drakes who own the land and apartments.”

Krshia growled at him. Yalla banged her bowl of candied nuts for attention. Her face was crimson with fury.

“Excuse me! You cannot force our landowners to adjust their prices! That is interference in business, which goes against the very heart of Drake traditions! We have a very amiable arrangement with the [Landowners] and guilds managing rent in the city.”

“Which is?”

Lism stared at her. Yalla hesitated.

“The [Landowners] contribute an annual fund to Liscor’s funds, above what we owe in taxes.”

“How much?”

“What do you mean, how m—”

“Nine thousand, six hundred, and twelve gold pieces last year. Rounded up.”

The Drake turned with fury to look at Olesm. He smiled politely back at Yalla. He saw Lism look at him and went on.

“Yalla Aldrake, [Landlady]. You paid four hundred and eight gold pieces to the, ah, Land-Fund, which is an agreed-upon tax on the owners of real estate.”

“Interesting. But I happen to know you own at least four streets. And the prices on one of those streets was six silver coins and five copper per month.”

Lism stared at Yalla. She opened her mouth.

“That was due to—”

“Six silver and five copper per month is seventy eight silver pieces per year. If you multiply that by the number of people per apartment, that’s eight times that. At least. Which is…nephew?”

Olesm’s lips moved as he did a quick summation on his parchment.

“Six hundred and twenty four silver, Un—Councilmember. And converted to gold, that’s thirty one gold and four silver. If my math holds.”

Lism nodded.

“And that’s per house. In the poorest district of the city. Multiply that by what, eight houses on one street? Twenty? Thirty? And multiply that again because streets have two sides?”

Silence. Yalla’s face was pale. Jeiss was doing the math, a deep frown on his face. Olesm came up with the answer at last.

“If you assume sixteen houses per street—and it’s actually closer to twenty six—one street would earn around five hundred gold pieces per year. And uh, not all apartments have only eight rooms.”

“And that’s the poorest district! With widowers, old Drakes who can’t tie down a full job anymore and people who need a home! Where do they go if they can’t afford the rent?”

The [Shopkeeper]’s voice was too loud. Yalla winced.

“How should I know?”

It was the wrong answer, and the wrong indignant tone to take. Lism exploded as his fist came down and sent the bowl of nuts flying.

“They go to live with their families or friends or they sleep on the street! Six silver coins and five copper for a room on Welcaissel Street!? I’d be ashamed to rent that room to Humans!”

“How dare you! What I do with my apartments is my business!”

Yalla shouted back at Lism. He was not to be outdone, and she had made a mistake shouting at someone whose entire job was shouting.

“Really? In that case, you can explain to me what an old lady is supposed to do when she’s turned out onto the streets without two coppers to rub together and nowhere to go!”

“Councilmember Lism! Please stop shouting!”

One of the Drakes begged. Lism’s voice was echoing in the meeting room. All three Gnolls had covered their ears, but Elirr looked approving. So did Jeiss. Stales, shaken, looked around. The Drake, older, one of the old Council, pointed shakily at Lism.

“This is not the place for shouting. We have measured debates, not these—attacks on Councilmembers!”

He looked around for support. The old Council nodded. Stales broke in hurriedly.

“I agree! We’ve gotten completely off-track from our original discussion. Funding Liscor’s expansion might be possible if the Walled Cities and the Antinium are willing to contribute to Liscor’s funds, but suddenly levying fines or controlling the way business is done is not the purpose of this Council! I wish to make this very clear! As a Councilmember and Head of the Merchant’s Guild—”

Stales paused. Because only half of that sentence was true. He went on.

“I think we should take a recess for some further clarification of how things are done. We can all split up into pairs, old and new, and then get back to—”

He stopped, because at that moment Krshia Silverfang stood up. She didn’t do anything else. But it was the kind of movement that attracted attention. It wasn’t fast. But it was slow. And when she was done, she looked down at Stales.

She was the tallest person in the room, just a bit taller than Elirr. And she looked down at Stales very coolly. Somehow, the words froze in Stales’ mouth. Krshia looked at the old Council, from face to face. And then she looked around at the new Council. At Elirr and Raekea, and then Jeiss and Alonna, both of whom were frowning. Tismel and Zalaiss she ignored completely.

“I think we have learned much from the old Council. And I agree with former Councilmember Stales, yes? There is much this new Council does not do like the old one. We lack order. And Liscor’s Council must have order. Pointless shouting does little. We should be focused on what matters.”

She looked around, and then at last, met Lism’s eyes. The [Shopkeeper] didn’t look away and he and Krshia stopped, staring at each other. They began to glare. And then, suddenly, stopped. Olesm held his breath. Then, slowly, Lism looked sideways. And nodded.

“As much as I hate to admit it, Councilmember Silverfang, I have to agree.”

Stales exhaled. The former Councilmember issued a tentative smile. At last, they could get things back on track. The Gnolls were good for something after all! He clapped his claws briskly and looked around.

“Good. In that case, let’s all take a break.”

Lism nodded.

“Good idea. Feel free to take it outside. Councilmembers?”

He stood up. Jeiss, Alonna, Raekea, and Elirr all got up too. The old Council blinked. The next thing they knew, the eight Drakes found themselves outside the meeting room, balancing the snack platters in their claws. They turned as Lism pushed the last former Councilmember out and shoved the waste basket into her arms.

“You can’t do this! We haven’t finished telling you how things work! Don’t you dare—if you so much as try to enforce any rule on our class, we’ll—”

Yalla shouted at Lism. He smiled at her without an ounce of sincerity.

“Miss Yalla. I am a Councilmember. You are not. And the Council will decide on what’s appropriate for this city. If the Head of the Merchant’s Guild or the [Landlady] of Welcaissel have a complaint, you can write it down.”

He paused. After a moment, Yalla retorted.

“And?”

Lism slammed the door in her face.



—-



The Council of Liscor met for the first time, really, for the first time in a room covered with crushed candied nuts worked into the rich carpet. With an angry Drake [Landlady] pounding on the door until Olesm helped remove her. And they took stock of each other a second time then.

You had Krshia, Elirr, and Raekea on one side. Gnolls united by a common purpose. And Olesm, as he came back in wincing at a scratch on his arm—Yalla had sharp claws—looked at the Drakes. You might assume they were all the same, but they weren’t. Lism, Jeiss, and Alonna were all quite firmly together.

Tismel and Zalaiss on the other hand were in the same bed as the old Council. They looked appalled at the way the Drakes had been bundled out of the room and were staring at Lism and Krshia as the two sat back.

“Odious person, that. I should have known. [Landlady]. Pah. She inherited those apartments. They certainly haven’t been maintained since she was born. I doubt she’s even stepped into one.”

Lism was grumbling to himself. Krshia was murmuring to Raekea, who looked nervous. And Elirr? Elirr seemed calm. He was turning his head left and right, regarding the room in much the same way Olesm was. And then he caught the [Strategist]’s eye and smiled.

Almost secretively. As if Elirr had suddenly come across a good joke. Which told Olesm that the older Gnoll had seen something.

And then Olesm looked at the room. Really looked. And he saw something that Liscor’s Council had failed to notice until this very moment. The election for Liscor had been framed as a matter of Drakes vs Gnolls, old vs new, trust in the Antinium and non-Drakes and non-Gnolls versus the traditions of Liscor. But what the old Council really should have been worried about, what they’d failed to notice was this:

The new Council wasn’t rich. In fact, aside from the aforementioned Tismel and Zalaiss, they were all from working occupations. [Guardsman]. [Shopkeeper]. [Armorer]. [Mage]. Olesm knew for a fact that Alonna hadn’t inherited anything that had catapulted her into the Mage’s Guild’s leadership role. And he knew his uncle. And Krshia.

Suddenly, he felt better about this new Council. He hadn’t liked the old one. He hadn’t hated them, but they’d been rather like the Council before them. And the one before that. But this one?

This one was new. Lism finished brushing bits of nuts off his side of the table. He looked around and gestured at the now-empty snacks tray. Jeiss tossed his uneaten deviled eggs into the waste basket with a grimace.

“Not good. Too rich for my blood.”

Lism nodded. He reached for his belt and took out a water flask and drank.

“Next time I’ll bring some decent snacks from my stocks.”

That broke the ice. Krshia looked up from her conversation with Raekea and nodded.

“I know a [Cook] who does very fine work at catering to crowds, yes? He could put a small spread on the table for the cost of one of those other dishes. I could ask him to cater for us.”

Lism turned his head.

“I take it your friend’s a Gnoll?”

The [Shopkeeper] bristled.

“And if he is?”

“Oh, nothing. But will he be catering all our meals? Why not let some Drake [Cooks] provide the meals?”

“Why not? You may suggest a name. I did not hear any from you.”

“I have five.”

Lism snapped back. Raekea looked up as Krshia and Lism began to snap at each other. She caught Jeiss’ eye across the table. They gave each other a nod. Jeiss put a hand on Lism’s shoulder and the [Shopkeeper] paused. Raekea poked Krshia in the side. The Gnoll yelped and glared. But then she relaxed.

“I was simply saying, that if food was desired—”

“Maybe if you alternated species in who’s providing meals for the Council?”

Olesm broke in desperately to avoid another fight. Krshia and Lism stared at him. The [Shopkeeper] nodded.

“Well, obviously. I was just making the point that—never mind.”

He eyed Krshia warily. She looked at him for a second and then Raekea poked her. Olesm cleared his throat. Well, at least this was classic.

“If anyone has a further motion to pass regarding providing sustenance for Council meetings? That was actually on the docket, but we can move it up the timetable.”

The table stared at him. Krshia frowned.

“What did you say, Olesm? That is on today’s list of important topics? Snacks?”

The [Strategist] sighed as he consulted his notes.

“The former Council likes to sort out these matters right away. In years past, it can be a matter of…contention.”

Lism stared at his nephew, aghast. He cast a look towards the door.

“They quibble about—it’s just food for Ancestor’s sakes! We don’t need to discuss it! Do we?”

He looked around the table. Jeiss raised his brows.

“I don’t have an issue with what I eat so long as I’m not going to puke it out on patrol. Or have half the Gnoll kids ask me what I ate.”

“Did the Council actually debate over snacks, Olesm? And for how long? Are they always like…?”

Alonna waved a claw to indicate the show the old Council had been. Olesm hesitated. But that was the old Council. And if they got word that he was telling tales they might…never speak to him again.

“Well—there was a number of heated debates halfway through their first year. I think they devoted two sessions to arguing about nuts. The uh, deviled eggs were a compromise that went on for about four months. The old Drake, Councilmember—er, Mister Saish—really liked eggs.”

He looked around the room. There was just silence from Lism and Krshia’s camps. Again, Krshia and Lism traded glances. Lism raised one claw.

“All in favor of alternating food duties between members, if we need to eat at all? I’ll start.”

Krshia instantly raised her paw. Raekea thought about it for as long as it took to give the idea proper, measured thought. She was only a beat behind Krshia. Elirr’s paw was already in the air along with Jeiss’. Alonna waved a claw.

“I don’t do well with cilantro. That’s all from me.”

“Wait, are we voting?”

Tismel looked dismayed. Lism stared at him, and then at Zalaiss.

“What’s it look like we’re doing? That’s what the old Council said we do, right? Unless we have to do some kind of ceremony?”

“One of the Councilmembers liked to bang a little rock to call the vote. But no.”

“I see. Do we need to write anything down, Nephew?”

“…Not for an informal agreement on bringing food to the meetings, no. I shouldn’t think so.”

Lism nodded.

“Okay then. Vote.”

He glared at Tismel and Zalaiss. They hesitated, and then their claws came up. Lism nodded.

“Everyone’s in favor. So we’re agreed. Is that how it works?”

He looked at Olesm again. The [Strategist] coughed.

“Um. Yes.”

“Good! Cross that off your list, Olesm. What’s next?”

Olesm blinked.

“Well, you were debating—”

“Not that. Let’s get the least important things out of the way first. Then onto the actual debates. Right?”

Lism looked across the table. Krshia cracked her knuckles.

“Of course.”

Disconcerted at the sudden harmony between the two, Olesm looked at his list.

“There’s…the announcement you put out around the city. You see, traditionally—”

“We know what the announcement is. Alright, we have to say something. Thoughts?”

Elirr raised a paw. Lism stared at him.

“Well, spit it out!”

The Gnoll looked affronted.

“I thought we raised paws. No? Very well. For the announcement, just say what is needed. ‘There is no issue. We are all alive’. Simple, yes?”

“Hah! I like that!”

Jeiss snorted. Alonna looked dismayed.

“Perhaps something less direct, Elirr? I think Liscor’s citizens would prefer something with some…what’s the word? Ornamentation. What’d they write last year?”

Lism waved a claw.

“The new Council has assumed its role as leadership of Liscor, etc. etc…copy that and have someone shout it a few times.”

“Wait, but wouldn’t that be lazy?”

It was Zalaiss who raised her claw timidly. Lism’s eyes popped.

“Who cares if it is? And who cares what the Council has to say?”

“Well…”

She looked uncomfortable and glanced around. Jeiss was rubbing at one ear. Alonna shrugged. The Gnolls looked blank. They didn’t see the point either. Lism drawled.

“Next? Or do we vote on it? This isn’t important.”

“On that we agree.”

Krshia folded her arms. Helplessly, Zalaiss fell silent. Olesm went down the list. It would have taken the old Council ages to come up with a worded message. Wasn’t it important? Then he hesitated. Wait, who would listen to the announcement anyways? Not many people. How many would remember it was the same as the last one? He looked at his uncle. Lism had never had time for superfluous work.

“Another issue is when the Council meets.”

Raekea nodded. The [Armorer] was looking more reassured now the old Council was gone. This she could understand.

“Meeting times? What’s the tradition?”

“Once a week on a day chosen by the Council, unless a member convenes the Council due to an emergency or a situation of crisis demands meetings at more regular intervals.”

The Gnoll paused. She frowned.

“Once a week?”

There was a snort from Lism.

“That’s not work. That’s a vacation!“

Krshia nodded.

“Let’s do three days a week at least. Try for five. That would work for me.”

Jeiss groaned. Lism looked at him, but the Senior Guardsman only held up a claw.

“Dawn? It’s the only time that would work for me. I want to see my family nights. I’ll change my schedule with the Watch.”

Lism nodded. Alonna yawned.

“Works for me. This isn’t far from the Guild anyways.”

“All in favor?”

“Er, do you mean right at dawn or…”

Zalaiss trailed off as the other five Council members stared at her. Lism blinked slowly.

“We do have to work, you know. Dawn’s simple. I’m up before it every day.”

Krshia nodded.

“As am I.”

Raekea raised a paw.

“Me too.”

“Sometimes I work through the night. On patrols. Dawn would actually give me a chance to get regular patrol times.”

“I can get up early.”

“My cats wake me up.”

Tismel didn’t say anything. He meekly raised his hand as the Council voted unanimously again. Olesm found himself crossing out item after item on the list. Meeting times? Check. Contact information? They would be here at these times. Just hire a Street Runner! Redecoration? Lism’s glare made Olesm’s quill cross that off the list, never mind the nutty carpet.

“Any more trivial decisions or can we debate the real issues? I see four. Or something. Antinium, walls, Minotaur, funding. Close enough.”

Lism looked around the table. He was met only with silence except from a slow stare from Krshia. Raekea sat up and Elirr leaned forwards. Jeiss took a deep breath and Alonna cricked her neck, looking at Lism. He nodded.

“Alright. Let’s get down to the real issue. All in favor of executing the Minotaur? Let’s get this done.”

“Lism!”

Krshia snapped. Lism just looked at her.

“What? You know we’re all thinking it. That’s what I ran on. Let’s just see a show of claws!”

“You can’t just use a majority vote!”

“That’s how it works.”

“Wait, who are we voting to…execute? The Minotaur? You mean, the one in the dungeon?”

Tismel looked queasy. Jeiss frowned and then raised his hand. Alonna held up hers.

“I’m not voting yes. I just want to know why we have to kill him.”

“We don’t. We should, though. He led the Raskghar to attack Liscor. He’s responsible for deaths. Gnoll deaths as well as Drake.”

Lism looked pointedly at Krshia. She folded her arms. Raekea hesitated and her arm moved for a second. Then she looked at Krshia. Elirr coughed.

“We agreed not to. That is a fundamental issue we promised, Raekea.”

She sighed. Lism looked around. Alonna put her hand down.

“Alonna!”

“Oh, fine.”

She raised her hand. It was three against three. That left Tismel and Zalaiss undecided. The Drake [Cobbler] wavered.

“I just don’t know. This is a sudden commitment!”

“That’s what I promised people, or do you not recall?”

“But deciding it now? Can’t we debate the issue?”

“And waste time like that previous idiot Council did? Ancestors, I want to get things done today, people!”

Lism raised his voice, but Krshia’s growl made him stop. She looked at him across the table, arms folded.

“As do I. However, a life is not something you should casually dismiss. Let alone with a vote.”

The Drake stabbed the tabletop with one claw.

“We’ve been over this, Silverfang. You might have said a lot to get that Human on your side, but I meant every word. That monster killed people. He betrayed his team and put Liscor in danger. He might be crazy or he might not be. Either way, he should be killed.”

“And if he was under—”

“He isn’t under a spell. Alonna or another [Mage] would have detected it.”

“What if it’s something else?”

“Tell me what it is!”

Lism smacked one claw on the table. Olesm held his breath, wavering. Krshia and the Gnolls refused to raise their paws. Tismel raised his claw, lowered it. It was Zalaiss who raised hers.

“I vote for it.”

“Tismel?”

Lism’s voice was dangerous, but the [Cobbler]’s conscience had a hold of him. He hesitated.

“I’m not convinced that just executing a Minotaur—I mean, it’s my vote! That’s a lot to ask of me on the first day! Let me at least consider it—anyways, what if we’re split? There are eight Councilmembers; we could tie. What then?”

The Drake looked disgusted.

“You’re right. That is a tie.”

“Which means we don’t kill him.”

“That’s not how a tie works, Silverfang! A tie? Eight people on the Council? Who choose that number? We could deadlock any number of times! What happens then?”

“I break the vote. Not that it matters in this case.”

The doors swung open. Watch Captain Zevara strode into the room with perfect timing. She’d probably been listening at the door, to be fair, but it still turned every head. Olesm blinked as the Watch Captain strode towards the table. She stopped and placed her claws on the hardwood. She nodded to everyone, pausing for a moment on Krshia and Jeiss.

“Councilmembers. My apologies for the delay. I had to help escort the previous Council from the building. Watch Captain Zevara, reporting before Liscor’s Council.”

She straightened and gave them a perfect salute. Olesm was tickled by the performance, but it had always worked on the old Council. This new one was more relaxed. Lism just scowled at Zevara.

“Why doesn’t the vote of the Council matter where the Minotaur is concerned, Watch Captain?”

She returned his look unflappably.

“As part of my duties as Watch Captain, it is my job to inform this Council about certain laws that govern Liscor and all Drake cities. As a new Council, you have the authority to oversee a number of aspects of the Watch. You may give Watch orders, but I may choose not to obey a Council’s orders if I deem it necessary for the safety of the city. Similarly, the budget is in your control, as is my position.”

“You didn’t answer the—”

Zevara spoke over Lism. The trick was in not hesitating; he fell silent, glowering as she went on in a loud voice.

“Part of that decision is choosing a new Watch Captain. The Council is free to replace their Watch Captain, but the City Watch’s Senior Guards can oppose that decision and nominate a new candidate from within their ranks. In either case, a Watch Captain’s orders have precedence in times of military emergency and she or he has jurisdiction in Watch affairs. Prisoners are under my authority. I thought I made that clear during the election.”

She paused. Lism glared.

“And if we disagree?”

The Watch Captain returned his gaze steadily.

“You can overrule me. In which case you’ll need to select a new Watch Captain as well.”

And there it was. Jeiss whistled and sat back. He shook his head as Alonna, Tismel, and Zalaiss looked at him. Raekea was shaking her head too. Elirr smiled. So did Krshia.

“I consider the issue tabled, unless you wish to vote to replace Watch Captain Zevara, Lism?”

“No. I do not.”

Lism ground out. He looked frustrated. And then, surprisingly, he sighed.

“Fine. Second order of business. Funding the wall. Expanding Liscor. We won’t be taking Antinium money or aid—”

“We will, because it makes sense and you will debate this with me for all present to hear, Lism—”

“Furthermore, in my capacity as Watch Captain of Liscor, I have a second and crucial duty to impart to you!”

Zevara bellowed over Krshia and Lism. Olesm clapped a hand to his earholes. Zevara paused.

“I understand this Council plans to enact a number of changes to Liscor. I’m all for that, and the Watch will fully support your endeavors. Including, I hope, approving my budget requests for this year’s Watch. I don’t know how you’ll get the funds. That’s not my job. But this is. And it will inform your decision regarding the Antinium. Strategist Olesm, it’s time for the presentation.”

She looked coolly at Olesm. He hesitated.

“Now? But we usually wait for the first week before we give it to them—”

“I think they can handle it.”

Olesm hesitated. He saw Krshia perking up her ears, but ignored the quizzical look Elirr gave him. He nodded, and hurried out of the room and into his office. He took nearly five minutes getting back, because he had to use a magical key and then find the requisite files—he didn’t use them that much. When he did, Zevara was midway through her lecture.

Olesm knew it by heart. He’d given it to the other Councils, and the look of apprehension on the faces of the current Council was only compounded as he pulled out paper documents and began passing them around. Zevara tapped her piece of paper as Olesm handed her a copy.

“These are the real numbers we’ve projected for Liscor’s Hive. At any given moment, I estimate that they have at least nine thousand Soldiers and twenty four thousand Workers they could bring to bear on the city. The numbers fluctuate, but that puts their Hive at around thirty thousand fighting soldiers at any given time, with the understanding that Workers will fight if ordered to do so…”

“Dead gods, they could overrun us at any time!”

Tismel clutched the paper, staring at the projections of the Hive’s numbers. Olesm sighed. The Drake had a wide-eyed look in his face. And judging by the way even Krshia was on the edge of her seat, Zevara had begun the hardest part of any Councilmember’s job—realizing just how dangerous the Antinium were.

“Not so, Councilmember Tismel.”

Olesm hurried to reassure the Drake. He hoped Zevara hadn’t started recapping the Antinium Wars just yet. Or describing how dangerous a Soldier was in combat. Councilmembers had outright fainted or gone into panic attacks, and this wasn’t even the worst of it. He cleared his throat nervously. Zevara nodded at him and he took on his role.

“As Watch Captain Zevara has no doubt told you, Liscor considered the Hive of the Free Antinium a very valid threat. Not only do the Antinium have a reason for attacking Liscor, they have far more numbers than their allotted standing garrisons of six thousand Workers and three hundred Soldiers as agreed by the treaty. We are not saying they are likely to attack at this given moment! But our contingency plans extend to any scenario. And we have extensively prepared, so that even if their army currently outnumbers our Watch by a ratio of…”

Olesm hesitated and looked at Jeiss shaking his head past Tismel’s white scales.

“…er, by a significant ratio, we have any number of fallbacks designed to even the odds.”

“Enchantments no one knows about.”

Krshia said that as a fact, not a question. Zevara nodded.

“As Councilmembers, you are sworn to secrecy. But the nature and location of the traps is confidential even for Councilmembers. In case of…interrogation.”

Tismel shuddered. Lism just narrowed his eyes. Olesm winced.

“We’ve placed a number of enchantments on areas where the Antinium could invade from. Back when Liscor’s Council signed the deal with the Hives, we laid as many spells into the ground and city as we could. We cannot go into details, but some of the traps will render tunnels inhabitable, or seal parts of Liscor from being burrowed under. It would effectively—hopefully—damage the nest with the Soldiers and Workers in it. Possibly even wipe them out if all the traps work.”

He bit his tongue, remembering all the key-spells he had access to. It had kept him up for months when he’d first become [Strategist]. A select few could trigger the spells, including him. Lism stared down at the list of non-descriptive spell effects and locations.

“How did Liscor afford all this?”

“It didn’t. The Walled Cities all paid for extensive protective spells. And Wistram itself sent some of its best mages to do the work while giving us a discount. No one was taking the Antinium Hives lightly after the Second Antinium War. Rest assured, we don’t either, but you must understand, even with the spells, conflict with Liscor’s Hive is not something we want to risk.”

Zevara clasped her claws behind her back. Elirr frowned as he stroked his chin.

“If Liscor has so many emergency spells, why did we never use them when a Goblin Lord’s army was knocking at our door? Or when the moths attacked? It seems like those would be worthwhile emergencies, even if they must be remade or it tips our cards, yes?”

Zevara shook her head.

“Most of these spells are focused inwards, Councilmember Elirr. We can’t dismantle them or change where they’re aimed and, I think, neither can the Antinium. They’ve tried on some, or so we suspect. But we can circle back for questions. Strategist Olesm? The next papers.”

“Here you are, Councilmember Alonna.”

“What’s this?”

The Guildmistress leaned back and handed the papers to Lism as she stared at the dates and numbers. Olesm cleared his throat.

“Understanding the Hive also means understanding some of the subtleties of the Antinium, Councilmember. This is a short summary of the phenomenon known as Aberrations. You may be familiar with them?”

“The crazy ones? When you ask them their names?”

Lism looked up sharply. Zevara paused.

“Close. Aberrations are, as we understand them, some aspect of the Antinium gone wrong. Either they rebel or simply go…insane. They attack friend and foe until killed. The Antinium execute their own, but over time, some have gotten loose into the city and caused injuries or deaths. This is a list of all the casualties due to Aberrations over the years.”

“Damn. I remember this one. I killed that Worker. Nearly took my head off.”

Jeiss whistled as he ran his claw down the list. Olesm nodded.

“It’s not a substantial number, and I think most Aberrations occur within the Hive and are…disposed of there. But you can see a trend.”

Krshia looked up, her brows knitted together.

“They increase in number year by year. Until this year when…they stop.”

Zevara nodded and gave Olesm a significant look.

“That’s correct. And that’s also when the phenomenon known as the Painted Soldiers occurred. We don’t have a dossier on them yet, but Olesm and I are putting them at a Level 20 threat ranking as opposed to regular Soldiers, who are around as dangerous as a Level 15 threat. Don’t let the numbers fool you; that is a substantial upgrade in our appraisal of their combat abilities. On par with the other specialists the Antinium Hives can produce. This is the threat Liscor’s Hive presents apart from simply taking Liscor. The fact that they are—and now are successfully—creating their own specialists.”

She let that sink in. Olesm muttered as he found the next papers.

“Which is why trusting them—ow!”

He sidled away from Zevara. Olesm fell silent. He and Zevara hadn’t talked on this issue, but they clearly had different opinions. Like Erin. Why couldn’t they see the danger? Maybe they did, but it wasn’t what Olesm saw. If he thought about it some nights, he didn’t sleep at all.

“Excuse me, uh, Watch Captain. You said…other Antinium specialists?”

Tismel was breathing hard as he raised a claw again. Zevara nodded. She took the papers from Olesm and handed them out. This time everyone at the table recoiled from the image sketched there.

“What in the name of the Ancestors is this, Watch Captain?”

Lism held the parchment back from him. The hair had gone up on Raekea’s body and Krshia’s. Elirr just stared at the image grimly. Zevara tapped the dark, almost transparent form and angled body. Scythe-like limbs. Olesm shuddered.

“This is a sketch of the Silent Antinium’s covert spy-assassin. You may have heard rumors of them during the First and Second Antinium wars. Well, they exist, and one of the six Hives produces them. Not in number, thank the Ancestors, but Manus estimates they have six times the numbers they fielded during the last war. This is what we refer to as the specialized units the Antinium field. Until recently, we had classified five types. Armored Antinium—very similar to regular Soldiers but with armor, Twisted Antinium, radically different in size and shape, the assassin-type Silent Antinium, and the Flying Antinium’s…fliers. Here are [Artist]’s sketches of each. This is what the Antinium can field against us, and why keeping Liscor’s Hive in check is vital towards a possible future war.”

“Can we win it?”

Alonna looked up, her claws nervously moving back the pictures of the Twisted Antinium. Some of those would give you nightmares on the sleepless nights. All of the Council, Drakes and Gnolls, looked at Zevara. She paused.

“The Walled Cities have their own precautions, Councilmembers. However, this briefing is standard for every leadership position in a Drake city, and mandatory for Liscor’s Council. It’s not to frighten you, but to impress on you the seriousness of your duty.”

It was actually to frighten them, a bit. Olesm knew it was important for the Council to actually think on matters regarding the Antinium. He was just surprised Zevara was springing it on them now given how she’d tried to support the Antinium’s cause during the election. Lism threw down his sketch and looked around.

“Look at this. Do you see why trusting the Antinium is a fool’s game, Silverfang?”

Krshia was staring at her sketch. Slowly, she looked up.

“I see it. But I do not see much of Liscor’s Hive that alarms me. Everyone, even the most foolish cub, knew that the Antinium had more than three hundred Soldiers, yes? And they have fought for Liscor, sacrificed for the city. From Skinner to the moths to the siege with the Humans, their Soldiers have died fighting for us. Is that not so, Strategist Olesm?”

“I…have some reports archived in my office. I could bring them here if you’d like.”

“Please.”

Olesm went to get them. When he came back next, Zevara was speaking again, outlining evacuation protocols in case of emergencies. This Council was paying attention. The Gnolls were alert, and his Uncle was asking questions. Senior Guardsman Jeiss wasn’t paying as much attention—but that was because he probably knew the answers to each question given his role. They looked up as Olesm began passing around archived reports he’d written himself.

The contents were illuminating to the Council. They showed a side of the Antinium they’d only heard about, or heard about in gossip. Here it was confirmed; Olesm had done analysis after analysis of the Hive and written it all down. It made him feel good knowing someone was reading it. Of course, he sent the reports off to the Walled Cities too, but he never got a reply to those letters.

“Huh. So they were actually fighting during the Face-Eater Moth attacks?”

“They took at least a thousand casualties during that battle. Getting any other estimates is virtually impossible, but I saw how many Face-Eater Moth mothers they brought up. I have reason to believe that the Antinium…do endure the brunt of the assaults from the dungeon without us knowing a thing.”

Zevara nodded. Olesm shifted uncomfortably. This was painting the Antinium in a good light again. He tried edging the Twisted Antinium’s sketch to the top of the pile until Zevara glared at him.

“What about the undead attack with that…Skinner thing? The Antinium showed up at the last moment. What’s the reason for that?”

Alonna frowned at another report. Zevara sighed.

“A change in leadership, Councilmember. You may recall that Senior Guardsman Klbkch was thought dead during that time. His replacement elected to prioritize the Hive’s safety. When Klbkch was…returned, he immediately led the counterassault. Frankly, that situation was caused by the [Terror] effect by the Skinner guardian. If the Watch hadn’t fled the walls rather than raising the alarm or closing the gates, we would have held the undead attack off easily without them.”

“Why don’t we have enchantments or something to protect the [Guardsmen] on the walls from magical effects like that? There’s got to be amulets or something that stop that, right?”

Raekea frowned. Zevara’s bitter smile spoke volumes, as did Olesm’s.

“On my proposed budget list, Councilmember Raekea. It was rejected by the last Council, but I’m sure you can understand the necessity.”

“I can. And I’ll be damned if I’m facing that thing without gear this time around.”

Jeiss looked up with a toothy grin. Zevara’s lips quirked and she nodded to him. He gave her a tight nod back, and Olesm felt better. At least the Watch would be funded this year regardless of what else was decided today.

No one asked if it was a conflict of interest. As far as Drakes were concerned, everything was their interest, and Gnolls shared the opinion.

“So they’ve been protecting Liscor all this time? Is that what we’re to understand here?”

Lism looked up, unconvinced by the reports. Olesm hastily interjected, shooting a quick glance at Zevara.

“A counterpoint, Councilmember. It’s my opinion that they were hoping to claim the dungeon for themselves all this time and thus expand their Hive into it without our knowledge. However, due to years of failure, they elected to reveal the dungeon to reduce the damage to their own Hive.”

“Exactly. You see, Silverfang? They’re only in it for them. All these warnings, these types of Antinium—they’re preparing for war! We can’t aid them. Not one inch. And you, Watch Captain! How can you argue for giving the Antinium a lease on expanding their Hive if you knew all of this?”

Lism hurled one of the papers at Zevara. It floated past her and she snatched it out of the air and slapped it back on the pile on the table. The sound made everyone look at her.

“Because, Councilmember Lism, I have considered the facts as well as everything I personally know and believe about the Antinium. They may be warlike. And dangerous. And I will fully admit that the Grand Queen and the other Hives are a deadly threat to the safety of all of Izril. However, I know one of my [Guardsmen]. Senior Guardsman Klbkch. And we knew him only as Klbkch the Slayer.”

Olesm turned his head. Zevara walked back and forth in front of the Council.

“When he came to Liscor, he was every bit the impartial monster we thought of all Antinium as. But he’s changed. And when he tells me there is a chance that Liscor might not be swallowed by a war with the Hive under our feet, that we could change the Antinium by working with them—I believe it.”

She stopped and turned to face them.

“I believe in giving the Council all the facts before they make their decision. My opinion is that the Free Antinium of Liscor can be trusted more than the other Hives. It’s a gamble to give them aid or allow them more freedoms. But as it stands, they are already positioned to strike Liscor. It may be, however, that the existence of the Painted Antinium, of these new Antinium like Yellow Splatters or Pawn, might be able to change the Hive as a whole. Or throw the entire network int