n him afterwards.”

Ceria sighed.

“Wish they’d succeeded.”

“Shut up!”

Olesm’s claws slammed onto the table. The tables—no, the entire room went silent. The Drake looked up at the stage full of [Actors] across from him, the Painted Soldiers, regulars, Relc making a fist—he turned red.

“I’m sorry. Thanks for the drink. I’ve got to go. Zevara. Can I have a word?”

He grabbed for some coins abruptly and pushed his chair back. Erin opened her mouth, wavering.

“Olesm—”

“Watch Captain?”

Olesm shook his head. Zevara stood up. She looked at Krshia and Selys.

“I’ll be a moment.”

Quickly, she and Olesm walked out of the inn, through the door to Liscor. They didn’t even need help; the mana stones were now labeled on the dial. The door closed as the silent inn watched Olesm go. One of the [Actors] coughed on stage. Ceria turned guiltily to her team.

“Oops.”

Ksmvr raised a slow hand.

“In fairness, Captain Ceria, drowning is a very horrible way to die. I would prefer disembowelment over drowning myself.”

He looked around at the silent table.

“No? Just me? Strange.”



——



Olesm walked swiftly down Liscor’s streets for a good thirty seconds before slowing. He turned back, the scales along his cheeks dark with color.

“Sorry.”

“It’s fine. We were being insensitive. I apologize.”

Zevara fidgeted as she caught up, her heart skipping a beat. She’d mostly forgotten her burning desire to ask Olesm out, but sometimes it resurfaced in inopportune moments. She schooled her face, though. Olesm seemed serious. Watch Captain Zevara cleared her throat.

“Did you have something you wanted to talk to me about, Olesm? About the proposed deal with the Antinium?”

Olesm nodded curtly. He took a few breaths to steady himself, and then crossed his claws behind his back. When he looked at Zevara, it was seriously, his previous embarrassment and anger put aside.

“I heard what you agreed to. Allowing the Hive to expand? Increasing the limit of Soldiers permitted aboveground? Giving other Hives access to Liscor? Zevara, with respect, are you insane? That deal favors the Antinium in huge ways!”

Zevara’s stomach sank. She didn’t like the disapproval in Olesm’s eyes. Reflexively, she crossed her arms.

“I’m aware of the implications, yes. But elaborate for me. Why is this in particular so egregious? The Free Antinium have been in Liscor for over a decade now. They’re already protected by the peace treaty. What’s wrong with letting in a few foreign Antinium?”

“Besides the fact that they could give the other Hives valuable information or force us to allow them to pass into our territory under diplomatic privileges? That’s not my biggest worry. It’s allowing their Hive to expand. It’s dangerous! Why would you allow any deal involving that?”

Olesm glared at Zevara. She glared back and pointed at the ground under their feet.

“Why wouldn’t I? It’s an easy concession to make! You and I both know that the current Hive has exceeded its boundaries, Olesm. And they maintain far more Soldiers in their Hive than the agreed-upon six hundred. These are paper promises.”

The Drake took a deep, frustrated breath.

“You don’t understand. We regularly use a [Geomancer] to send probes into the earth. We can tell—to a certain distance—whether there are tunnels belowground. The Hive can probably dig below the [Geomancer]’s range, and I’m certain they do. But it still impedes their overall capacity. But if the city expands and the Hive is allowed to expand with it, the danger they represent will exponentially increase.”

“As will the City Watch. We could potentially double our numbers! And Liscor itself will expand!”

“That’s not the point!”

Olesm clutched at his neck spines agitatedly. He stomped one foot on the ground, and then gestured to one of the houses on the street.

“The Antinium are far, far more efficient than Drakes, Humans, or any other species in the world in terms of space. If Liscor expands, the Antinium will gain two Workers or Soldiers for every new person we can house. And they are all potential combatants.”

That silenced Zevara for a second. She gnawed at her lip.

“Even so, we’ve always known the Hive was large. They’ve always outnumbered the City Watch. That’s why we have safeguards in place.”

“Safeguards that account for a certain number of Antinium and being able to hold parts of the city!”

Olesm’s raised voice made a shutter fly open. The two Drakes heard an aggrieved shout.

“Shut up down there! Stop talking about the election! I’m trying to sleep!”

They hurried back, keeping their voices low. Olesm hissed at Zevara, his tail lashing.

“The Antinium have always been able to overwhelm Liscor, Watch Captain. At any moment, if their Queen orders it, they could storm the city, and I would give them the odds of winning. The only thing that saves us is that it is not advantageous for the Antinium to do so. And the fact that there is a chance, a decent chance, that any sudden attack would fail, due to the safeguards we have in place. If we give them more concessions, like having six hundred Soldiers aboveground at any moment…the odds begin to favor the Antinium more and more. If we give them an incentive, the Free Queen—no, the Grand Queen might decide—”

“I know.”

The Watch Captain cut Olesm off. He blinked.

“What?”

Zevara folded her arms. They’d come to a rest in an alleyway, completely sanguine about the dangers. A potential mugging would be welcome at this moment; Zevara’s tight throat and burning lungs made her want to spit fire at something. She contained more than a few wisps of smoke from leaving her mouth.

“I said, I know, Olesm. I haven’t been a Watch Captain the entire time the Antinium were here. But I’ve been briefed. I’ve had conversations with the High Command, the leaders of the other Walled Cities…I know what’s at stake. They may call Liscor a backwater border city, but we are the lynchpin between north and south. And more importantly, we are the experiment. I know how deadly an Antinium siege gets. Don’t you think I do?”

“Then why—”

“To fight the Goblin King, we allowed the Antinium into Liscor. That was the deal. But there was another reason. We wanted to learn about the Antinium. Study their weaknesses. But now, I think some of the original [Diplomats] in charge of the deal were still hoping, thinking it might lead to…peace.”

Zevara looked past Olesm. His jaw dropped.

“Peace? With the Antinium? With all due respect, Watch Captain, that’s insanity. We still have border conflicts. Deaths each week! The other Hives are not content to remain sedentary, and we’ve had Aberrations in the city, which we have never proven are an actual flaw among the Antinium—”

“I know all that, Olesm. Shut up for a second. That’s an order.”

Zevara waited for Olesm to be quiet. She went on, clenching a claw.

“I know. I know the risks. I know the Grand Queen. I’ve read the reports on the other Hives. But there’s something else I’ve learned. I know Senior Guardsman Klbkch.”

Olesm was quiet. Zevara went on, pacing back and forth.

“I remember when I first met him. Of course, I knew the stories. And of course, I watched him like a hawk. And he’s given me reason to watch him—but he’s also been honorable, hard-working—Ancestors, if he wasn’t an Antinium, I’d be worried he’d take my job! A lot of the city hated the Antinium when they first arrived. But thanks to one Antinium, one person, now not even Lism can attack Klbkch directly without losing most of his supporters. And Klbkch is a Prognugator—no, a Revalantor of the Hives. I have to trust that there’s more than just an opportunity for peace. And if one Hive might make peace with us, that’s one-sixth of the Grand Queen’s armies. I trust Senior Guardsman Klbkch, Strategist Olesm.”

She met the shorter Drake’s eyes. Olesm’s blue scales shifted in the moonlight as he studied Zevara. He was breathing fast with agitation, and thinking too. At last, he shook his head.

“I know Senior Guardsman Klbkch too. But I don’t know Klbkch the Slayer. And I know this. To him, we are all dust.”

Zevara stared at Olesm.

“What?”

“His words, Watch Captain. I don’t agree. I understand your reasoning, but I think you’re wrong.”

The knife twisted in Zevara’s stomach. Coldly, she stepped back.

“Well, you’re free to that opinion. But I’ll remind you that I’m not using my authority to unduly shape the election. I am allowing Krshia Silverfang a chance, but I am supporting her as an individual, which is my right. The City Watch may vote to their conscience. As may you.”

Olesm looked up at Zevara. He narrowed his eyes.

“I think I’ll have to do that. I’m sorry, Watch Captain.”

He turned and walked away without another word. Zevara stared at his back and tail until they disappeared. Then she leaned against the alley wall. She sighed slowly.

“…Great.”



——



While Krshia and her small team were celebrating the day’s victory at The Wandering Inn, a similar committee was burning the midnight oil. Literally. It was midnight, and the lantern was using cheap oil. It smelled, but none of them were [Mages] or even capable of casting the [Light] spell. Lism hissed as he rubbed one claw across his reddened eyes.

“Okay. Make an appointment with Wing Commander Embria. Request that two squads join us for our counter to Krshia down Market Street. And if she can spare a third, it would be best used marching wherever those other candidates go. Remind people of the real defenders of Liscor. Now, how in the hells do we figure out how to put a hole in that stupid Gnoll’s plans? Anyone?”

He looked around the table. A group of weary Drakes—and one Gnoll—stared back. All of them, mostly Lism’s age or older, shook their heads. A Drake with grey scales with only hints of speckled orange leaned on the table.

“She’s got the Council by their tails, Lism. They’re going to vote for an election. I can feel it in my scales. And if she runs with all those Gnolls—they could take the Council. Put all those laws through. You can’t argue her ideas don’t sound good.”

Lism’s brows darkened. His voice rose impetuously.

“Sound good? Oh, they sound good, I’ll grant you. But they’ll sell the city to the Ants and open us up to a hostile Human takeover. Did you hear her saying how she’d reach out to all the Human cities if she was elected today? As if they won’t bleed us dry! You all know her proposals are as rotten as ten-day-old fish. None of you would be here if you thought she was right.”

The table slowly nodded. But Lism didn’t like the exhaustion in the eyes of his fellow Drakes. And one Gnoll. He glared to his left.

“Shazzi! You know the Gnolls around your home. Can’t you talk sense into them?”

An old, fierce Drake clutching a cane even in her seat looked up. Shazzi, a retired [Seamstress] who could still sew like a monster, shook her head, pursing her lips.

“Not me. They’re all too afraid to cross Krshia Silverfang. She’s some big shot in her tribe, and everyone who came with her supports her unconditionally. Plains Gnolls. And the rest won’t speak up.”

“Damn. Cellic. What about you? Can’t you rally more support for the army? What happened to patriotic Drakes waving the flag? Cellic? Cell—”

The Drake across from Lism woke with a start. He was far from the oldest Drake here—he was actually in his mid-thirties, but a large scar crossing the back of his head had left a divot in his skull. He looked up, befuddled.

“What? Did I—what’s that, Lism?”

The [Shopkeeper] hesitated. He eyed Cellic and then looked out the window. Nothing but darkness greeted him. Lism looked around at the other faces and modulated his tone and put a smile on his face.

“Ah, nothing, Cellic. It’s clearly late. You should get some rest.”

“No, no. I’m fine. I’m here if you need me. Say the word, Lism.”

The retired [Soldier] protested mildly. He blinked and unconsciously reached for the scar at the back of his head.

“I’m just…”

He yawned and drifted for a second. Lism looked at him, and then around.

“Someone take Cellic back. Make sure he gets some sleep in his bed. On his front, mind! Anyone? Tess, will you…?”

“On it.”

A Drake in her twenties sighed and plucked at Cellic’s shoulder. He awoke with a violent start, and for a second, his claws opened. Then he caught himself.

“I’m…sorry. What’s going on?”

“A nap, Cellic. We’re all going to sleep. You’ll be the thing tomorrow. I’ll be counting on you.”

Lism jovially laid a shoulder on Cellic’s arm. The Drake looked at him and smiled.

“I’ll be there bright and early.”

He let Tess guide him from the room. Lism rubbed at his eyes and looked around. A morose team stared back. The old Drake with orange scales shook his head again.

“We could just petition the Council not to go ahead with the election. Point out exactly why it’s not necessary.”

“Can we stop half the city from following them around? Wait. Maybe. We could…form protective squads. Keep busybodies back. Maybe. I’ll think on it. But it’s late. You all need sleep. You’ve got your jobs, after all.”

The conference table looked at each other and reluctantly nodded. Lism clapped his claws together.

“Go, then. Thank you for your time. Anyone who can spare it, come here tomorrow. But if you’re hurting for coin—I’ll have a plan by the time you wake up.”

He smiled. Unconvincingly, he knew. But the others just murmured agreement and left, patting him on the shoulder, pledging to be here. Brave souls, fighting for what was right. Lism saw them off, and then went to sit back down.

His house was much, much quieter without the group sitting around his dining room table. The Drake sat in a chair, restlessly turning back and forth, getting up to pace.

“Maybe if I—no. Damn. And if I argue with her on—no. No! That won’t work either! If the High Command would only sign over enough money to match the Antinium! Can’t they see what will happen? And Wing Commander Embria’s not being cooperative. Her and those idiots blindly supporting—Silverfang!”

He uttered the name of his mortal enemy like a curse as he had so many times before. Only this time, Lism couldn’t see a way to beat her. He kicked over his chair with an oath.

“That damned furball—”

“Uncle!”

The sharp voice made him spin. Lism’s hand instinctively went for the knife at his belt, but the voice and the face instantly made him relax. A surprised smile crossed his face. He spread his arms.

“Olesm! My boy, it’s been too long!”

The surprised younger Drake with blue scales was enveloped in a hug. Lism clutched his nephew tightly, smiling fit to burst. Suddenly his problems seemed distant, at least for the moment.

“Come and sit! Don’t mind the mess. We’ve just had a late night planning out this election nonsense. Can I get you some tea? A snack? I’ve got some scraps—let me put a kettle on!”

He fussed around Olesm, but the younger Drake was reluctant to sit. He was restless, and his brilliant scales and handsome face—Lism saw the family resemblance. Handsome, regal even, and intelligent. All the marks of the Swifttail clan. He beamed at Olesm.

“It’s been over two weeks! But I imagine you’re beating ladies away with your tail. How is work? Liscor’s [Strategist]. And you’re not even thirty years old! You’ve got more levels than years! Wall Lord Ilvriss himself picked you out. If that’s not a sign of greatness, I don’t know what is. Has he reached out to you since returning to his city? Let me get you some tea.”

“He hasn’t. And I’m not fighting anyone off with my tail, Uncle. Stop fussing, please.”

Embarrassed, Olesm finally sat down. He looked up at Lism and frowned.

“And don’t use that word, please!”

“Word? I was just frustrated.”

Lism spread his claws innocently. Olesm folded his arms.

“You used it in public to address Krshia. Uncle!”

“I didn’t say furbag.”

Olesm ground his teeth together audibly, and Lism sighed. The younger [Strategist] pushed his chair back.

“It’s still insensitive to the fact that we used to skin Gnolls during the old times. It’s as—as—it’s as bad as if I called you a Human-kissing Turnscale. No, far worse!”

“Alright, alright. It was my mistake. But that damn—Silverfang’s caused this mess in Liscor, and I’m trying to sort it out. Give me some credit for stress!”

Lism sighed. He couldn’t deny his nephew anything. He doted on Olesm, in fact, never mind that the boy sometimes hung around with that terrible Human girl and had moped for weeks after his fling with that half-Elven adventurer who’d nearly gotten him killed. But Lism’s heart swelled with fondness for Olesm. He was the family’s pride, after all. Never mind what anyone else had thought. Lism had known Olesm since he was a hatchling. And Olesm had never betrayed his hopes.

“I’m glad to see you, Olesm.”

“Me too, Uncle. Me too. I’m sorry I haven’t called on you. I’ve just been—busy.”

Olesm smiled, but he didn’t look happy to see Lism. He seemed tired. Tired, worried, distraught—Lism felt like he was looking at a mirror. The [Shopkeeper] cast about his modest home and cleared his throat.

“We-ell, why don’t you tell me what’s been happening to you? I could use a break from this business with Silverfang. Don’t worry, I’ll stop her from ruining this city.”

“Oh, Uncle.”

“Not to worry! I can do it!”

The Drake waved a claw. He sat back, opening his mouth and eying his nephew. Then he coughed and shook his head.

“No, no. Don’t worry. I’ll figure something out. I haven’t sold copper pennies for silver pieces for years without picking up some tricks. And I know you’re friends with that stinking—with that insane—with that Human girl, and Watch Captain Zevara is your superior. It’s fine.”

Olesm sighed, leaning forwards on his knees.

“Erin’s a wonderful person, Uncle. I told you already. If you hadn’t tried to swindle her—”

“Overcharge her. It’s not illegal!”

“She’s a really good person. The best chess player. In the world! I’ll swear she could beat the Titan himself. And Krshia’s a good person too.”

“She’s got you fooled, my boy. You can’t trust her. She’s as slippery as a greased eel and twice as treacherous as a Creler.”

“She’s trying to help the city, Uncle!”

The Drake paused.

“You think so too?”

For some reason, the thought of Olesm siding with Krshia stung more than any of the Gnoll’s damned barbed insults this morning. The blue-scaled Drake, a far cry from Lism’s purple-and-red scale colors, more like his mother than anyone else, shook his head.

“I’m not…all for her. But I know Krshia. I know her heart’s in the right place. So is Selys’ and Watch Captain Zevara’s…I just spoke with them, actually.”

“Did you now?”

Lism sat down heavily. For a second, his mind flashed to Krshia’s arguments, seeking a hole in them. But the problem was…Olesm looked up at his uncle. The single, oil-burning lamp flickered, wafting a bit of stink towards the two. Neither one moved.

“Uncle. I came here because I wanted to ask you about the elections. Krshia’s ideas. Her proposing them. You’re her biggest enemy. Tell me honestly. Please. Is this really just about you hating Krshia’s ideas? Or are you serious?”

Lism squirmed like a fish on a hook. He opened his mouth, looked over his shoulder, but he couldn’t escape his nephew’s gaze. Reluctantly, at last, he opened his mouth.

“I’m not saying she’s all wrong. She’s…right we need to expand Liscor. Rent’s up, and we’re all feeling the pinch. Just the other day, Mella, you know her, right? The old [Florist] on Salpik Avenue? She was turned out of her apartment without anywhere to go. After living in her spot for eighteen years. Only now she can’t pay the rent because it’s nearly tripled from two years back.”

Olesm rubbed at his face, shocked and mildly horrified.

“Mella? She used to babysit me. What happened to her?”

Lism was indignant.

“The neighborhood association got to her is what it did. You think we’d let her freeze to death? We put her up with Miss Shazzi. They get along like cats—or two Drakes—in a bag, but it’s manageable. You can imagine the stories, though.”

Olesm laughed quietly.

“I can. I should visit her. Or see about that [Landlord]. Evicting someone from a house at Miss Mella’s age? That could be a death sentence. And triple the price? I’ll check on it tomorrow.”

Lism nodded, proud as any father. Prouder than Olesm’s, certainly.

“That’s the [Strategist] of Liscor for you. Never too large to notice the honest folk.”

“But it just proves Krshia’s right, doesn’t it, Uncle?”

Olesm looked up, fixing Lism with another stare. The [Shopkeeper] hesitated.

“Well…okay, she has a point. And maybe the Adventurer’s Guild could use some coin. And I won’t say I’m against the City Watch expanding—Ancestors, of course, I’m for it! It’s just…”

The younger Drake folded his arms, waiting. Lism grabbed at his neck spines. At last the words exploded out of him.

“It’s just her! That Human-loving Gnoll thinks we can cozy up to any warm-blooded Human. She thinks we can rely on the Antinium for help—and she’ll toss out our entire system of government to do it! Just because she wants power. And she’s wrong. The Antinium aren’t our friends. Hah, we saw that during the First Antinium War, didn’t we? Even if a few can walk about without killing anything in sight—and those Humans! We had an army at our gates not a month back! Has everyone forgotten that?”

Olesm shook his head.

“No one has, Uncle. But I’ve heard you speaking. You talk about filthy fleshbag Humans. About Gnolls getting ‘out of their place’. About other species—Uncle, they’re not all evil. I’ve told you that. Not even all Goblins are bad.”

Lism was quiet. He leaned on his table, and then looked up.

“So? So what? Should I apologize? Change my views? They’re not all evil. But it’s not ‘all’ of them I’m worried about, Olesm. It’s the ones who rule. Tyrion Veltras. That [Lord] tried to take Liscor. He would have slaughtered—slaughtered the entire city and started a war. But for luck, he didn’t. Should I forget that? When? In a month? A year? A decade? What about what Humans have always done? We welcomed the Five Families when they first came. In return, they betrayed us, burned our Walled Cities, slaughtered us in the north and took half a continent away.”

His claws shook as he gripped the table, staring at Olesm. The [Strategist]’s face was bleak.

“I know. But that was millennia ago, Uncle.”

“Have they changed? Should we forget? I don’t like them. I don’t trust them. And I’ve always been honest about that. I don’t put on a fake smile and stab them in the backs. Why do I have to pretend to like them? Why do I have to like them at all? Why can’t I hate them for what they’ve done? What they do? Why do I have to say ‘oh, some of them are different?’”

Olesm bowed his head. He shook it a few times as Lism paced back and forth. The [Shopkeeper]’s voice shook.

“I can live with them. Isn’t that enough. Or will Krshia pass a bill forcing me to duck my tail and smile at every Gnoll and Human who passes my way? Why the Antinium? Why not—not let Drakes and Gnolls build the city? We used to have [Builders] once. Honest work for honest folk. And then the Antinium came with their damn workers and put hundreds out of a living.”

He paced up and down, airing old grievances, angry, despairing. And he felt guilty, because he knew Olesm didn’t agree. He didn’t want to see his nephew’s look, so Lism kept ranting. Right up until Olesm stood up.

“Uncle. Enough.”

And Lism was quiet. He turned to Olesm.

“I’m sorry, my boy. But I’m not going to stop fighting Krshia. And if I have to be the last one kicking and screaming, I’ll oppose her right up until she becomes a member of the Council. If I can just stop it…”

His tail thumped the floor helplessly.

“You know, lots of the Drakes in the city feel just like I do. More than half of the ones I spoke to were uneasy about an election, about messing with the system, the Antinium and Humans. It’s just that when that damn Gnoll sounds so convincing with her talk of free money, people lose their heads. We are Drakes, after all…”

Olesm looked at him, and then he half-smiled. Bitterly, tiredly.

“I disagree with a lot of what you said, Uncle. And if you keep saying it, I can’t—won’t help you. But you’re right about one thing. The Antinium. And if you’re willing to think about what’s good for the city…I’ll help you.”

Lism paused. He stared at Olesm. His nephew looked up at him. Lism didn’t hesitate. He spread his arms wide, beaming.

“For you? Olesm, my nephew? I’ll try. Tell me what you’re thinking.”

Olesm sighed, closed his eyes. And then he pulled out a quill, inkpot, and began to speak.



——



The next day, Selys hummed as she strolled down Market Street, getting ready for the big day. This was it. They’d push the Council to begin an immediate election, put out four more candidates for the Council, and then—win. She couldn’t wait. She was so excited, she was practically vibrating. She saw a crowd had already gathered next to a promenade. They were gathered around something. A council member? Were they having a debate? Selys slowed. And then she stared.

“Ancestors. What is that?”

Five minutes later, Krshia, Zevara, and the rest of the Gnoll candidates were standing in a group, looking up at the large poster made of parchment posted on a wall high up, for all to see. Zevara read it out loud, not even needing to squint to read the words.

“Jobs for Liscor. Build your city with your own claws/paws! What in the name of Dragons…?”

“Is this something you did, Krshia? Anyone else?”

Selys turned to the group. Beilmark, Elirr, Raekea, all of them shook their heads. Selys looked around, puzzled, and then she heard a familiar sound.

Ratatatat.

“Oh no. I thought we beat him yesterday!”

She groaned. Krshia uttered a few Gnoll curses and turned, calling for her crowd to form up. But to Selys’ surprise, this time Lism wasn’t heralded by a huge crowd. Instead, he was walking on his own two feet, followed by a gathering of onlookers—but not the vehement protesters that usually shouted insults at Krshia’s supporters. And the drummer was no [Soldier], but just a regular Gnoll [Drummer], banging a brisk beat on the drum.

“Vote for a better Liscor! Vote for walls! Vote for economy, independence! Vote for a Liscor you built yourself!”

Lism shouted, cupping his hands to amplify his voice even further with the aid of his amulet. Krshia, poised to ride the platform over the heads of the crowd, appeared with a large group of Gnolls. She stared down at Lism and looked around. It was almost comical without the huge crowds of yesterday. Krshia coughed, embarrassed, and called down to Lism.

“What are you doing, Lism? Causing more trouble? Is this your doing?”

She pointed at the huge flyer above the street. Lism smiled, shading his eyes to see.

“Ah. Like it, Krshia? Yes, it’s mine. Courtesy of a few [Scribes] I know! But I see they forgot to add my name to this particular one. It’s my campaign’s slogan. Like it?”

He gestured up at the flyer. The crowd looked at him, clearly confused. So did Krshia. She folded her arms.

“So you’re for an election suddenly? Are you flip-flopping on your word again?”

Lism gave her a huge smile.

“Only because I’ve had a change of heart! Yes! I am for an election! And we should build a new part of the city! By all means!”

He raised his hands. And the crowd behind him cheered. It was, after all, what Krshia had been saying all this time. Completely off-guard, Selys stared at Zevara, whose brows were completely raised. Krshia stared down at Lism. Then she realized where she was and awkwardly climbed off the podium.

“So you’re acknowledging mine is the good idea, yes?”

Lism studied one claw.

“It’s…a good idea. But I’d rather I take the Council seat. You see, I am running in your district, Krshia. And if I’m elected, I’ll ensure that we expand our city by one-third, fund the Adventurer’s Guild, and fund the City Watch! Build those walls! Build those walls!”

He raised his hands, and the crowd cheered behind him. Krshia stared. Then she spluttered.

“What? You can’t say that? That’s—that is my promise, no?”

Lism smiled beatifically.

“Well, it’s my promise too. I’ll ensure that Liscor gets exactly what it needs, but unlike honored Krshia here, people, I’ll do it right! Lism for the City Council!”

He raised his arms again, but Elirr thrust his way forwards. The older Gnoll shouted at Lism.

“Do it right? You just stole Krshia’s idea!”

The Gnolls around him roared the same thing. Lism shouted back.

“Not at all! I improved it! You see, I won’t rely on Antinium to build the wall! I’ll hire honest Drakes and Gnolls to do it!”

The words stunned Elirr into silence. Lism waved a claw around.

“Yes, Krshia has the right idea. And expanding Liscor is the best way to combat this ludicrous rent! But why let the Antinium do it? Think about how many jobs a project like that would create! Thousands! And the money would go into your pockets, not back to the Antinium for such a huge building contract! And I have more—”

“Wait, but that’s—”

Selys was scrambling, tearing through her notes to figure out just what—but Lism was going on.

“Krshia would have us open the city to adventurers from the north. I say, look to our tails. The Bloodfields have always been a deterrent to trade coming north. But with that fabulous door, and our brave soldiers, couldn’t we seek a safer path through the hills around the Bloodfields? Cut a path to enable trade throughout the year? This is just one of the proposals, which I, Lism, would implement if I am elected to the Council. Fund the City Watch! And bring our soldiers back! They could keep our roads safe! Why stop where Krshia is content to coast? Vote for me and let’s get as much done as we can!”

This time, the cheer was drowned out by Krshia’s howl of fury. She advanced on Lism, pointing an angry paw.

“You cannot say that! You stole my idea!”

“It’s just an idea, Silverfang! If you can’t improve on it, what’s the point?”

Lism crowed as he looked around. He got nods of agreement. Some people clearly disagreed, but Lism’s banner was waving above his head. Build your city with your own claws. Selys clearly heard a Drake lady remarking to a friend behind her.

“Why not hire Drakes and Gnolls? My son could use a job.”

“But how will you pay for the wall? Without the Antinium’s help?”

Krshia snarled at Lism, losing her composure. The Drake rubbed his claws on his tunic.

“Well, the army has pledged some money to Liscor. But—happily, three of the Walled Cities have already pledged to cover five percent of the costs rather than force the Antinium to pay. Each.”

Selys’ jaw dropped. Krshia took a step back, her fur paling.

“That is a lie. You cannot have—”

“Reached out to the Walled Cities? Let’s just say they’re concerned about the Antinium too. And they’re willing to help pay for an expanded City Watch—we may be able to fund the Adventurer’s Guild’s upgrade solely based on private donations!”

“Private—”

Krshia’s eyes bulged. Lism reached for something behind him. A Drake carrying a sheaf of…of papers handed a small stack to him. Lism pressed it into Krshia’s paws with a filthy smile.

“It’s just been printed. But the reaction is already spreading across the continent. I’m sure I have a few [Messages] waiting. But until then—Drakes and Gnolls, lend me your ears! Do you want to have the Antinium expand their Hive and build everything? Or would you rather build your city yourselves, and see the gold flowing into your pockets?”

He walked past Krshia, shouting at the crowd further down the street. The procession followed him, and Selys saw, to her horror, that people were breaking off, talking to each other. Spreading the word. It was a twisted parody of yesterday. Selys rushed over to Krshia. They had to stop Lism! Think up a counter! But the Gnoll was staring at something in her paws. Her hands were shaking as Selys rushed up.

“Krshia, what—”

The Gnoll growled. Her eyes flashed as the papers crumpled in her grip. She thrust them at Selys.

“That dirty, rat-tailed—”

Selys stared at the papers. Slowly, she unfolded the crumpled paper, read the freshly-dried ink. It was in fact, a [Scribe]-written copy. A copy of a rather long introduction. The first thing Selys saw was the author’s name. Olesm Swifttail. With a sinking heart, she began to read.



To my remaining readers,

My name is Olesm Swifttail, [Strategist] for the City of Liscor. In my previous newsletter, I made a series of suggestions and recommendations about a possible system that could be implemented along with an analysis of the events surrounding the Goblin Lord’s recent siege of Liscor. I understand it was received with much disagreement by a good number of my audience, not least for the idea of fostering peace with the Goblins. I would like to address that issue in brief:

To those I have offended, I sincerely apologize. My arguments were not backed up with historical fact, which do cite instances where Goblins have coexisted with other species—albeit a relationship fraught with tension. I have since educated myself, and hope this further, more coherent argument will better represent my opinion—and the inherent dangers I was suggesting.

I would like to delve into the realities of trying to work in harmony with species classified as monsters, such as Ogres, Trolls, Goblins, various ape species, Giants, (with the understanding that the remaining half-Giant tribes are, of course, now fully recognized as a species with rights in all cases but those of the Demonfolk of Rhir), and so on.

But before that, I would like to bring up another issue troubling Liscor: that of an election. I consider it a fascinating case-study of politics and will be attaching my opinion over a troubling change in Liscor’s traditional system of governance that may, inadvertently, grant too much power to the Antinium Hive located beneath Liscor, known as the Free Antinium.

My attached summary and thoughts are below, and in this newsletter, I have tabulated the letter to clearly differentiate games of Chess, Go, my findings on the issue of interspecies politics and strategy, and the current situation in Liscor.

Please also note the final section, which contains a fascinating report by Liscor’s Adventurer’s Guild on the species known as Raskghar, an exceptionally savage, monstrous subrace that deviated from Gnolls and their biology, danger classification, and the situation that led to a large tribe abducting Gnolls from Liscor itself for a ritualistic sacrifice, which has many disturbing implications…



“Oh dead gods.”

Selys slowly raised her head from the paper. Zevara, bewildered, snatched at it.

“What is it? What does it say?”

“Olesm. He released another newsletter. And he not only talked about Goblins, but he’s talking about the Antinium in it. About the election. It probably went out to every city on the continent with a [Strategist] in it. And I bet they read his letter with that opening. He just told all of them what’s at stake!”

Elirr’s fur went pale. He read the cover letter over Zevara’s shoulder.

“Olesm? He’s siding with Lism?”

Selys opened her mouth. Then she covered it because she wanted to throw up. No wonder the Walled Cities had just gotten in touch with Lism! If Liscor’s [Strategist] pointed out that they could help fund Liscor’s expansion or let the Antinium get a number of concessions…

Lism’s voice was coming back this way. He was marching at the head of a crowd, and he wasn’t by himself this time. A Drake was marching on his left, another on his right. Lism raised his voice jubilantly.

“For your consideration, good folk of Liscor! Senior Guardsman Jeiss for a seat on Liscor’s Council! Alonna Swiftwing, our esteemed [Mage] and head of the Mage’s Guild for a seat on Liscor’s Council! Vote for them! Vote for me! Liscor, built by our own claws! Or paws!”

The Gnolls watched him march down the street. Zevara stared at Senior Guardsman Jeiss. He saluted her awkwardly. Beilmark, his partner, said not a word. Jeiss avoided her gaze. Selys watched as more Gnolls and Drakes turned to listen to Lism’s new message. And then she realized the worst part.

“Oh no. He’s making this an issue about the Antinium. Not about building more of the city. If he can offer what the Antinium can—then it’s about whether you trust Klbkch and his Hive or not.”

“And whether you want Antinium to build the city or…us.”

The group fell silent. Selys thought she would puke. And then, a Drake approached their group. He was the same one from yesterday. And like yesterday, he made a beeline for Zevara.

“Watch Captain. Are you supporting Miss Krshia here? Are you against Shopkeeper Lism? He says he’ll support tripling the City Watch’s budget if he can. And he says he’s all for you as Watch Captain. Are you against him?”

Every head slowly turned to Zevara. She cleared her throat once. Twice. Three times. Selys beseeched her silently, but Zevara wouldn’t meet her eyes. Eventually, she looked at the Drake.

“Well, if—if any Council member were to see fit to grant the City Watch an appropriate budget, I don’t know that I could categorically denounce Shopkeeper Lism’s proposals…”

“Zevara!”

“Sorry.”

The Watch Captain murmured. The Drakes looked at each other. One of them whistled.

“Well in that case…I mean, I’m supportive of the Antinium and all that, but I wasn’t too keen on having that many Gnolls on the Council. Maybe one? And I like more Drakes. Humans…”

“Exactly. Say what you will, but Lism’s right about Humans. And I mean, Klbkch is Klbkch, but historically, those Ants…”

They broke up, backing away from Krshia’s party. The same Drakes who’d cheered her yesterday. Selys desperately went after them.

“No, wait! That’s not fair! Let me talk to Zevara! Don’t spread that! Krshia—”

She turned to look at the Gnoll. Krshia’s shoulders were hunched. She was staring at Lism with her teeth bared. Selys slowly backed up.

“We can win this. Everyone just stay calm. We need to think up a rebuttal for Lism. Talk to Klbkch. Get Erin in on this—”

Elirr and Beilmark nodded. They grabbed Krshia before she could, say, pounce on Lism. Selys was trying to usher Krshia back from the smug Drake when she saw him, standing across from her on the other side of the crowd.

His head was ducked, and he was looking down. But his blue scales were telltale. And he had a sheaf of papers in one hand. Olesm Swifttail was flicking through them, nodding as he listened to Lism speak.

Oh, spin and spin. Sudden changes and betrayals and the fickle nature of the crowd. That was politics. Selys felt the world, which seemed so solid, turn to jelly around her. And then she saw what Olesm was holding. The papers. His notes.

Selys saw them, and the world went red. She didn’t know what possessed her to push through the crowd. And she didn’t catch herself until she was right in front of Olesm, throwing her detailed notes in his face and punching at him with a claw as he tried to block. But a dozen hands caught her, dragging her back, and Gnolls and Drakes yanked the people grabbing Selys off her.

And then both sides were shoving, jostling, shouting—and then someone threw a punch. And both sides erupted into a brawl and Selys and Olesm were caught in the middle of it. Zevara shouted for order and roared for her City Watch while Krshia and Lism looked on, shouting insults at each other. Selys threw punches and tried to push out of the sudden riot as Lism’s supporters clashed with Krshia’s.

But unfortunately, suddenly, it looked like it was an even fight.



——



Liscor heaved. It turned. It fought amongst itself. And all the momentum Krshia Silverfang had worked for was snatched up, converted, and turned on her in an instant. A classic reversal in chess. Or perhaps Go was a more fitting metaphor?

Whatever the case, it was messy. And dirty. And when a despairing and scratched-up Selys walked into the inn, in tears, while Krshia shouted at Lism on the streets and Zevara sat in her office and thought, the scales were even. Or perhaps slanted in Lism’s favor. He had more than enough scales already.

And there they lay. Right up until the [Innkeeper], a young woman named Erin Solstice, came out of the kitchen, wiping her hands. She listened to Selys. She heard about Olesm. She dropped the towel. Slowly, Erin picked it up off the floor. She looked at Selys, around at her inn, her patrons. She thought of Krshia. Erin Solstice looked out at Liscor and made a fist.

“Oh, it is on.”





6.31


Erin Solstice woke up. She stared up at the wooden ceiling overhead and had a flash of panic. Things felt different. She twisted—and saw a pillow next to her. And then a drop.

She was lying in a bed. Her bed. And then Erin remembered. She was in her room, the first room by the stairs on the second floor of the inn. This was where she slept now.

Her bed in the kitchen was gone. And as Erin got up, she stretched and stared at the brightening landscape through a glass window. She still rose with the dawn, some days. Even though she didn’t have to. Old habits died hard.

And then Erin remembered last night, and her lips compressed. She stared at Liscor, just a ten minute walk from her inn. The [Innkeeper] made a fist and shook it at the inn.

“Olesm. You jerk.”

And that was all. Erin sighed. She closed her eyes and folded her arms. In her pajamas—thin cotton, breezy, and with a tail slit that Erin really didn’t need—the young woman thought. She shook her head.

“Nope. I’m still mad.”

Selys had been in tears yesterday after Olesm had shown up at Lism’s rally and essentially thrown a huge stone in Krshia’s campaign. Erin got why he’d done it—the Drake’s argument had been the talk of the inn. You can’t trust the Antinium. Build the city yourself. And if it were anyone other than Lism saying it, Erin might have understood.

But she was still mad. So Erin left her room. She paused in the hallway. Someone was already up. A green Hobgoblin paused, holding one of the simple toothbrushes Erin had given him. Guiltily, he swallowed.

“Morning, Numbtongue. Are you eating toothpaste again? I told you, rinse and spit!”

Erin gently glared at the taller Hobgoblin. The [Bard] hid the small tin of toothpaste behind his back.

“It tastes good.”

“Right, but I’m sure it’s bad for your stomach! It’s got chemicals and—”

Erin trailed off. She distinctly recalled seeing Numbtongue eat a rock once when he was bored. And he ate bugs. And leaves. She raised a finger.

“You know, Mrsha could see. And that’s a bad example.”

Numbtongue stared at her. Erin stared back.

“…Anyways, good morning.”

“Good morning.”

They headed downstairs together. Erin glanced at Numbtongue. He wasn’t wearing his leather armor. Or any armor today. That was a good sign; the Redfang warrior usually dressed as if he were about to go into combat even when he was lounging around. But today he only had a tank top on, leggings—he looked casual. He still carried the guitar on his back, which Erin supposed was some form of security; Numbtongue seemed to regard it as both club and musical instrument. But as he sat at a table, shifting his guitar out of the way, she saw how relaxed he truly was.

It was what Erin wanted to see. But she wished—she closed her eyes. Oh, how she wished there were five Hobgoblins sitting there, not one. Six; a little Goblin among them, scowling like always. An army.

But that was how Erin felt every day. That was her regret. Her failure. And she had lived with that in her heart for enough time to not dwell on it. It was part of her. Sadness became memory. And she had bigger fish to fry. If she stopped, who would feed Numbtongue?

…Probably himself. He knew where the food was. But Erin went and got a fish anyways. She had a fresh one, preserved from the rainy season thanks to her [Field of Preservation] Skill. It was a hearty meal for breakfast, but Numbtongue ate like a Hobgoblin still. And he had virtually no fat! Then again, his idea of a relaxing day was mining for eight hours after picking a hundred blue fruits after breakfast to warm up. So Erin laid the fish on the counter and eyed it.

“Bones out! Watch the fingers—”

She flipped the fish over, eying it. The innards had been removed already; Erin knew enough about fish to understand that even preserved, a bunch of half-digested insects or whatever fish ate wasn’t pleasant to have sitting around. The fish was, essentially, hollow, and the head stared blankly up at her. Erin shrugged.

“Knife!”

So saying, she reached behind her, for the special kitchen knife she carried on her belt at all times. This one was carried in a custom-fitted leather sheath, and the knife itself was—

Sharp. Erin could barely see the edge, even up close. And while it bore no inscription or fancy decoration, the plain steel shone, more beautiful than any of the other knives in her kitchen. And it was, oh, so very deadly. Erin handled this knife with respect, more than the knife that had once cut open her palm. She sliced off the head along the gills, and absently checked herself before tossing it in the waste bin.

“Acid Fly stuff. Where is…? Ah.”

Erin spotted a row of huge glass jars, along one wall. They were probably intended for pickling or something, but these large vessels were perfect. She tossed the fish head in one; it already had more meat scraps. And when Ishkr set it up, it would be prime Acid Fly bait.

Back to the fish. Next, Erin cut along the belly, separating the fish in two. She did so along the fish’s ribcage. But the sharpness of her knife—Erin barely ran her blade along the fish before it separated in two. She eyed the knife’s edge and didn’t check it with her finger; she’d been told that was a good way to lose it.

“Wow. I cut through all the bones. Okay…in that case…”

She had to get another knife to actually separate the bones out of the fish. A few precise cuts and they came out. Erin tossed the scraps in the jar, then cut the fish with her first knife. Five cuts on both sides: ten portions. Erin smiled. She wiped her knife carefully with a cloth, grabbed a pan, and got to work.

A few minutes later, Erin walked out of the kitchen with breakfast. Numbtongue looked up and surreptitiously hid the tin of toothpaste under the table. Erin pretended not to notice him swallowing; she lifted the plate.

“Fish! Half of one. Salted, seasoned—and I’ve got some mayo and that Gnoll sauce on the side. I know you love it. And here’s breakfast for me.”

She indicated a half dozen boiled eggs and a single serving of the fish. Erin set her plate down and handed three eggs to Numbtongue along with his five-portion fish. He brightened and grabbed a fork.

“Looks good.”

“Right? Let me know if you want more.”

Erin sighed as she sat down. She regarded her plate, and her stomach rumbled. Erin smiled as she grabbed a cup she’d brought out. It was filled with blue juice. Erin sipped it, sighed.

And then she got mad again. The joys of cooking had only distracted her from yesterday for so long. Erin made a fist.

“Olesm. And Lism! What’s wrong with Krshia’s plan, huh? Do they not trust Klbkch that much? I can see the Queen—she’s a jerk. But Klbkch? Really?”

Numbtongue eyed Erin as he stuffed the first portion of fish into his mouth. He shrugged, classically Goblin. Erin went on, chewing on her fish.

“And he put it in the newsletter! And basically stole Krshia’s plan! They can’t get away with it. No way. You hear me, Numbtongue?”

“Yep.”

“I’m going to do something. I’m gonna blow Olesm’s socks off.”

The Hobgoblin looked up as he ate one of the hard boiled eggs.

“How?”

Erin stared at Numbtongue. He was eating the egg without bothering to peel it. She hesitated.

“Don’t ask me hard questions.”

The two went back to breakfast. Erin glared at her food. She didn’t have a plan, actually. But something had to be done! Olesm’s betrayal was—okay, she felt bad about badmouthing Lism. Family was family. But still!

“Grr. Wow. These hard boiled goose eggs are good. Why have I eaten only chicken eggs all my life? Grr.”

Numbtongue nodded amiably. Erin growled into her plate. Selys and Krshia had both tried to come up with a solution, but Selys had been too upset and Krshia too furious to think rationally. Their team—Elirr, Raekea, the other Gnolls that Krshia had been hoping to put on the Council—had disbanded in low spirits yesterday. And Zevara hadn’t shown up after yesterday and Erin was worried she was being swayed to Lism’s side.

“They gave her a good deal. So she’s not all on Selys’ side. Gotta think of something. But the Walled Cities are funding Lism. That Olesm. That’s smart. Jerk move, but smart.”

Numbtongue licked his plate. Erin tapped her hand on the table.

“You know what? We’re not done. Selys was planning on having Zevara wear the Heartflame Breastplate. Fat chance of that now. But there’s something…and it’s not like the Gnolls don’t have good candidates. People like Krshia. And Raekea, that [Armorer]. I didn’t know there were Gnoll [Blacksmiths], did you, Numbtongue?”

“Yes. They probably have fire-resistance Skills.”

The [Bard] strummed gently on his guitar, quietly to avoid waking the guests. Erin looked up at him.

“That’s a thing?”

“Mhm. Very nice Skills. Hard to get. Goblins like to have them. Especially in Garen’s tribe.”

“Why?”

“So we can lay traps with exploding fire or spells and not worry about it. A Goblin stands on a trap with lots of wood. And oil. Angry Gargoyles attack him. Or adventurers. The Goblin sets off the trap and gets away. No one else.”

“Oh. Cool?”

“Not very.”

Numbtongue’s teeth flashed. Erin blinked, and then laughed despite herself. He was telling jokes! Sometimes she forgot how good Numbtongue was with words. And not just for a Goblin; she supposed that was why he was a [Bard].

“Right. Well, I know I can do some things. But I want to make a huge impact, you know? I was fine with Krshia being on the Council, but now it’s personal. I have to help. I can get a lot of attention. But is that enough?”

“No?”

“Exactly. Thank you, Numbtongue. You’re always honest.”

“Got any more fish?”

“In the kitchen.”

Erin thought as the Goblin got up. She was restless, drumming her fingers on the table. It was unusual for her. Usually, she was as placid as Numbtongue in the morning. But today? It felt like someone had poked her head from the inside. Now, Erin was lighting up. She was mad.

“Erin.”

The young woman looked up as the Hobgoblin poked his head out of the kitchen. She focused on what he was holding. Numbtongue grinned hopefully.

“Cake?”

“How’d you find—no cake! I thought I hid that!”

Erin glared. Numbtongue sighed. He patted his stomach.

“I’m hungry.”

“And Mrsha’s coming downstairs in a minute. If you have it, she’ll want some. No cake.”

The Hobgoblin sighed. He put the cake back and came out with the rest of the fish on his plate. Erin went back to staring at her plate. Absently, she felt for the knife on her belt.

“Olesm. I could stab him. With my knife.”

Numbtongue looked at Erin. She raised her hands.

“Hey! I’m just brainstorming. No ideas are off the table. I’m just really mad at him. I know his heart’s in the right place. I wouldn’t stab him too hard. Lism, now…I suppose he’d spin that too.”

The Hobgoblin nodded. He watched with interest as Erin’s eyes unfocused. Numbtongue knew Erin. Or rather, he was understanding more about the strange Human who called him family. And unlike many of her guests and friends, the Hobgoblin was well aware of what Erin could do. Rather like a certain Wall Lord, actually. He waited, eating with interest. Learning. And Erin’s eyes lit up after three minutes of silence.

“Hold on. Selys. Heartflame Breastplate. Stabbing people with the kitchen knife…cake. Yeah. I can work with this.”

Numbtongue paused. He stared at Erin and tried to connect the pieces.

“What are you going to do?”

“You’ll see.”

Erin smiled as she got up. She walked back into the kitchen. The [Bard] stared at her back. He scratched his head, put down his guitar, and began doodling on the top of the table with a sharp claw.

“Cake. Plus knives and Heartflame Breastplate. And Selys. Stabbing people?”

He was working on it when Lyonette and Mrsha came downstairs. The [Princess] called a greeting to the Hobgoblin.

“Good morning, Numbtongue!”

He looked up. A white shape raced downstairs. A nose appeared and then two big eyes. Numbtongue waved as two paws appeared. Mrsha signed to Numbtongue, smiling.

Good morning. (Paw tracing a smile, two folded paws sideways, then rising to a forty-five degree angle.)

“Good morning.”

The Hobgoblin smiled. He smiled at a Human and a Gnoll, and they smiled back. Miraculous. Mrsha sniffed Numbtongue’s plate. He picked off a piece of fish and offered it to her. She snatched it.

“Mrsha! Numbtongue! You eat off plates!”

Guiltily, both Gnoll and Hobgoblin hunched their shoulders. Lyonette put her hands on her hips, shaking her head. Then she glanced at the kitchen.

“Is Erin cooking?”

“Nope. Making plans.”

Lyonette hesitated.

“That’s…good. About the elections in Liscor, right? Did she say what she’s doing, Numbtongue?”

“Maybe something involving stabbing.”

The Hobgoblin frowned, still trying to work it out. Lyonette paused.

“Oh.”

Mrsha finished her piece of fish and scampered into the kitchen on all four paws. Lyonette and Numbtongue heard an exclamation, a delighted laugh, and not a second later, Mrsha was coming out proudly bearing a plate, cups, and silverware on two legs. She trundled over to their table and held them up. Numbtongue and Lyonette took the plate and set the rest on the table. The [Princess] smiled.

“Very good, Mrsha. Good morning, Erin!”

“Hey Lyonette! Today’s going to be a big day! How much cake and ice cream do we have? Oh—here’s some eggs and bacon. Numbtongue ate the rest of the fish.”

“Sorry.”

The Hobgoblin offered Lyonette a last piece of fish, but the [Princess] shook her head. Mrsha’s ears perked up at the words ‘cake’ and ‘ice cream’. The [Princess] sighed as she took the skillet Erin had come out of the kitchen with and doled out breakfast for both her and the Gnoll cub.

“We’ve got two cakes, unless Numbtongue or Mrsha’s eaten one when I haven’t been looking. And enough ice cream ingredients for eight guests. Or two Relcs. Why?”

“Well, we’re going to need about triple of both. You know how to make both, right? Can I ask you to whip up some more?”

“Better. Ishkr’s coming in just a few minutes. He can help make the ice cream. Unless—when do you need it? Because it melts, remember, Erin? And I’ll have to get him to buy some ice. Which is expensive. Even more than sugar.”

“Make Ceria do it. She’s free ice! And, uh, maybe store it in the basement? Her magic stuff disappears after half an hour, and I don’t know when we’ll need it. But we definitely need a bunch.”

“For a party?”

Lyonette sighed. Erin’s eyes were sparkling. As were Numbtongue’s and Mrsha’s, mainly at the prospect of that much sugar. The [Innkeeper] smiled.

“I have a plan to help with that election.”

“Oh, so you are going to interfere. Please tell me we’re going to sell all that food?”

“Most of it. Yeah, get ready for a lot of sales! And—we’re going to need more of all our food, Lyonette. Pizza, hamburgers—”

“Food from your world?”

“…Yes. Although lots of food in general is good. We’re going to have a party.”

The three diners at the table looked up. Lyonette glanced at Erin.

“You’re sure?”

The young woman paused. Erin’s eyes looked up, flickering from position to position. Seeing something in the distance.

“I think so, yeah. I’ve got this plan. It’s got a lot of moving parts. And it’s not quite together. But I’ve got something.”

Lyonette exchanged a glance with Numbtongue and nodded.

“Tell me what you need. Food—I can do food. I’ll send Drassi to shop for ingredients. It’ll take her a while; Krshia’s stall is closed, obviously.”

“Do that. And get someone to tell the Players of Celum that I want them to come in early. They’ll be performing Juliet and Romeo or Hamlet. Or Frozen. Not Much Ado About Nothing. Tell them to bring their best.”

“I’ll do that, then.”

Erin paced around, nodding absently. She glanced up with a frown.

“Thanks. Say, is Octavia bothering you? She wanted to talk to the Horns right when they got arrested, but I haven’t spoken to her since…”

“She hasn’t said anything to me. She’s been quiet, really. It’s almost a relief. Anything else?”

“Mm. One last thing. Send Drassi with a message for…Selys. Yeah. Just Selys. I’ll work out the rest as I go.”

“Go where? I’ll come.”

Numbtongue sat up. Erin smiled.

“Sorry, Numbtongue. You can’t. And it’s a solo mission for now, anyways. Tell Ceria and Pisces I need them to stay in the inn.”

“Got it.”

Lyonette watched Erin writing down her message on the parchment. Numbtongue stood up and went to read it. His brow furrowed further. He watched Erin fold it up, hand it to Lyonette, and then head to the magic door.

He was trying to understand. But as he watched Erin change the mana stones on the door, his brow suddenly cleared. He snapped his fingers.

“Ah.”

“I’ll be back!”

Erin turned and smiled at the room. Mrsha sat up, sniffing suddenly. And the inn was flooded with daylight. She shaded her eyes as the morning sky shone into the room for a moment—and then Erin was gone. Slowly, Lyonette looked at the closed door. And she got it too. She looked out a window, at the mountains blocking the sun from this angle.

Numbtongue squatted by the door. He smiled, pleased. He’d figured some of it out. As for the rest? He went back to his guitar and strummed it softly, playing a quick, upbeat riff. He was looking forwards to when Erin got back. It was never boring around her. At her table, Lyonette watched Mrsha scarf her breakfast. The [Princess] sat back in her chair and cracked her fingers.

“Well, I guess it’s time to make some money. Numbtongue? Mind getting us some more blue fruits? Mrsha? Can you feed Apista?”

The Gnoll looked up and found the Ashfire Bee eating from the Faerie Flowers. She nodded and went to get her watering cup. Lyonette smiled.

“It’s time to make some money.”

Belatedly, she remembered something else. This was the day that Belgrade was supposed to come to the inn and begin construction! She sucked in her cheeks, but Erin was gone. And—Lyonette supposed it didn’t matter. She glanced up. You could almost feel it in the air. An excitement. A premonition.

The feeling was enough to drag even the slothful Pisces and Ceria out of their beds and down the stairs, and Lyonette looked up. The quiet inn was coming alive. Because its owner was on the move. The Wandering Inn got ready. For anything. Because if you knew Erin Solstice, anything was the least of what you should be ready for.



——



In Liscor, both Olesm Swifttail and Selys Shivertail learned what was going on at almost the same time. When Drassi hurried out of the inn, bursting with Lyonette’s message, the [Strategist] and [Receptionist] both heard her excited message. Selys because she was the intended target. Olesm because a young Gnoll repeated it word-for-word to him.

He glanced across the busy street in the morning hours at Selys and Drassi and got a scorching glare in return. The [Strategist] ducked his head and sighed. He fished in his money pouch and handed the Gnoll a few silver coins.

“Good work. Keep listening and following them about. Did you get a look at the paper?”

The Gnoll kid wagged his tail excitedly and shook his head.

“No, Strategist Olesm. But Miss Selys said—‘Oh? The armor? I can do that. But what’s she want?’”

He looked up at Olesm. The Drake made a face. He stared back at Selys and Drassi. They were camped on the other side of the street. Selys was having breakfast with Krshia and her cohort of mainly Gnolls and a few Drakes. On the other side, Lism and his band of Liscorians were eating breakfast, noisily laughing.

It was a standoff. Both sides had appeared on Market Street practically at dawn, ready to campaign. And it was a campaign now. A war in the streets. Olesm had no illusions. With his help, his uncle had thrown a few good hits into Krshia’s unprepared defenses, but the Gnoll [Shopkeeper] wasn’t about to back down. But it was an even fight. No—even weighted in Lism’s favor. He’d taken Krshia’s campaign and turned it on its head. Free money, more jobs, less Antinium. Olesm wished he could be proud about it, but he felt dirty. And yet—

“Nephew! How goes it?”

A jovial voice interrupted Olesm. The Gnoll informant waved a paw and disappeared in the direction of Selys and Drassi. Olesm turned.

“Uncle. Not bad, I guess. But I’m a bit worried. You’re ready with my notes?”

Lism patted the bundle of cards that Olesm had worked up, smiling from earhole to earhole.

“Don’t worry, I’ll send that arrogant Silverfang packing. She hasn’t got a leg to stand on, and she knows it.”

“Don’t be overconfident. One of my informants said that she talked with Klbkch yesterday. The Antinium might have upped their offer.”

“So? It’s still Antinium money. Don’t worry, I’ll hammer her on that. And the Council has voted! The election’s going through! They haven’t said how or when—but they’ve agreed for, oh, what’s the phrase? ‘A referendum on the current Council, which will be taken under advisory for the next appointment of members.’ That’s good, isn’t it?”

“…Could be. It sounds like they’re saying they might not count the votes. Or at least, they’re giving themselves a way out.”

Olesm frowned, working over the language in his mind. Lism bared his teeth, his tail wagging excitedly.

“They do that and they’ll have a riot on their hands. From both Gnolls and Drakes! I’m getting behind this election idea, Olesm. Honest Drakes on the Council, not snooty Merchant’s Guild heads! Watchmen making decisions about their city! Senior Guardsman Jeiss will get the votes in.”

He looked delighted. Olesm was less so. The younger Drake shook his head.

“Just remember, Uncle. My worry is the Antinium. I’m not supporting you if you keep attacking Humans or Gnolls, for that matter. I’m trying to protect Liscor.”

Lism’s expression softened. He laid a hand on Olesm’s shoulder.

“Ah, my boy. For you, I’ll change anything you need. And we’ll safeguard Liscor. Together. Don’t look so worried! The city’s with us. Once we gave them an option that was as good as Silverfang’s, the support poured in. Even if the Antinium offer a bit more—and we’re getting in letters of support from all the cities, and even donations—we can persuade folks to do the right thing.”

Olesm hoped Lism was right. But even so, he cast an agonized glance at Selys again. She was ignoring him after she’d tried to punch his lights out yesterday. His tail drooped. Then he sighed.

“I think we can win this. My biggest worry right now, though, is Erin.”

Lism’s face soured at once.

“Ah. The Human [Innkeeper]. What about her? She can’t vote.”

“No. But she can help Krshia’s campaign out a lot. I don’t know what she’s doing, but it looks like she’s getting Selys to use her Heartflame Breastplate for something. I thought they’d have Watch Captain Zevara wearing it—but she’s staying neutral, it seems.”

“So? If they put a Drake in the armor, it’s the armor that matters, not the Drake. And if they put a Gnoll in it—they’re no Zel Shivertail. A bit of flash won’t change any minds.”

Olesm nodded. That was true. But still, he worried.

“I know. But Erin has a plan of some kind. That’s what Drassi said.”

Lism threw up his hands.

“And so what? You’re the [Strategist], my boy. What can this girl do?”

Olesm looked at his uncle with one eye and shook his head slowly.

“She’s Erin, uncle. Erin. I can’t predict what she’ll do. If there’s anyone who could—win the election by making fish fall out of the sky, it’s her.”

“You have too much faith in that Human girl. Just because she can play chess a bit better than you…fine! Watch for her, by all means. But let’s not forget the facts. We have a better campaign than she does. How can she change the facts?”

The older Drake blustered. Olesm made no reply. He just watched Selys. And she was glancing down the street, in the direction of The Wandering Inn. Selys looked up from a hamburger from one of the street stalls and met Olesm’s eyes at last. She bared her teeth and made a rude gesture as Krshia stood up. Lism stalked forwards, and the two began shouting at each other almost at once.

But that wasn’t what their seconds were waiting for. Olesm was poised, antsy, nervous. Selys looked calmer, but every two seconds, she was glancing eastwards, towards the inn. Both of them were waiting for their friend to make another move. And part of Olesm, no, all of him wanted to see it. Because it was Erin. And he felt as small and far from her as he ever had. He couldn’t touch her on the chess board, or in courage, daring. Kindness. But perhaps here?

He waited, and then ducked as Selys threw her half-eaten burger at his head. And they both waited. But the watchers Olesm had posted on the door to Erin’s inn from the city didn’t warn him that Erin was coming. The inn was quiet. Olesm wondered why that was so. He wondered what Erin was waiting for. Then he wondered where Erin was. And by that time, it was far too late.



——



Here was the truth. The little grain of it, tucked behind the expectation of all her friends. Krshia, the Horns, Lyonette, Numbtongue. Olesm. It was a simple fact. And it was that Erin didn’t know what she was doing.

She had no grand plan. She had…pieces. And they went together, in a halting, logical, twisting flow in her head. From that, Erin thought she could do something that would help Krshia, make Lism really mad. And do more, do good things. But it was just an inkling. A suspicion that if things went well, it could work.

She was no [Strategist]. She had no grand plans. Because Erin knew, in her heart of hearts, that she couldn’t really be a [General]. She wasn’t that kind of person, who could manipulate events and people like fine machinery. But by the same token, Erin did have something. And it was this: she knew people. That was all.

She had friends. With that simple truth, Erin Solstice could bring a city down. And that was today. She stepped through the magic door and into the city.

Pallass. The morning had advanced enough to let a smattering of people onto the streets. Gnolls, Drakes. And yes, the Dullahans from Baleros and the Garuda of Chandrar. They were few and far between, but still more common here than Humans or any other species. Erin spotted an avian head in the crowd and saw a green and white feathered Garuda man with a shopping basket under one arm as she looked around the street. He looked like he was doing some morning shopping. And he was so normal, yawning, scratching under one wing. Erin smiled. People were people.

“List?”

A pointed voice to her left made her look over. A Drake [Guardsman] with a familiar irked expression stared at her. Erin blinked at him.

“What?”

“Are you on the list for today’s arrivals? Do you have a list?”

The aggrieved [Guardsman] stared at her. Erin slapped her forehead.

“I knew I forgot something. No list. But it’s cool, right? No one asked to come through. And I’ll just be walking about. I’ll be back before you know it. I do own this door. Hey, aren’t you the jerk that stopped me last time?”

The Drake glowered. He had his trusty spear, and he was eying Erin as if he would have loved to give her a good tap with it.

“Watch Captain Venim informed you that anyone passing through the door needs to be authorized coming from Liscor to Pallass.”

Erin rolled her eyes.

“And I’m authorized. You let me in just two days ago. Kel, right? Where’s your friend?”

Guardsman Kel glowered.

“It was deemed safe to allow one [Guardsman] to watch the door. Despite the two unauthorized entries several days ago.”

“Who? Olesm and Pisces? Aw. You gave them a hard time too, didn’t you? That’s why they couldn’t come back until the next day, isn’t it?”

Kel folded his arms with a sneer.

“I just did my job, Miss. And I have to inform you that you are also entering without proper authorization.”

“Right. So? What are you going to do about it exactly?”

Erin looked blankly at Kel. The [Guardsman] hesitated. Erin leaned forwards, smiling as she put her hand on the closed door.

“If you want, I can go bother Watch Captain Venim again. I know where he is. Or I can talk to whoever’s on duty. Again. Wanna do that? Because that makes it like the eighth time you and I have done this. And I can do it eight more times. Just say the word. They’ve got free tea, you know.”

“That’s tea reserved for members of the Watch!”

“Too bad! It’s really good! Nice talking to you, Kel. I’ve got to be on my way. I’ll be back, though, don’t worry! Save my spot!”

“You’re here illegally!”

The Drake bellowed at Erin’s back. She waved at him. That was Kel for you. Hot-tempered, couldn’t relax. But she’d gotten to know him a bit. The proof was in the fact that Kel let her go rather than trying to poke her in the guts with his spear. She was wearing him down.

Erin walked ahead, breathing in the fresh air. At this height, it felt cooler, crisper. Or maybe it was because the smells of a muddy Liscor didn’t have any bearing here. Pallass’ air was fresh; even better, it had no smog like the cities in Erin’s world. She caught the whiff of fresh bread, a perfume from a passing Dullahan lady, flowers being offered by a Gnoll [Florist]. And then, a sharper smell. Oil, cleaning materials. Not entirely unpleasant. Erin turned her head and heard a familiar voice.

“You. You want sharp knives. Everyone wants sharp knives.”

A Dullahan stood behind his counter, addressing a Gnoll man. The Gnoll pointed at himself uncertainly.

“Me?”

The Dullahan didn’t nod. But his head, resting on the little pillow in the basket on his counter, opened his mouth while his armored body lowered his pointing finger.

“Yes, you. You need sharp knives. I have the sharpest knives. Come and see.”

“I, uh—I have good knives. Thanks.”

The Gnoll glanced at Erin as she wandered over. The Dullahan glanced at her and then addressed the Gnoll.

“But are they sharp?”

“Pretty sharp. I’m fairly certain…thank you. But I have to be going, yes? Er—”

The Gnoll backed away. The Dullahan sighed. He picked up his head and adjusted it in the basket with his body. Erin leaned on the counter, beaming.

“Hello, Lorent. How’s business?”

“It could be better. Did you hear that Gnoll? He’s got good knives. And is he certain? Or is he so used to a dull blade that he’s taken it for granted?”

The Dullahan [Sharpener] pursed his lips. He tilted his head to look at Erin and the kitchen knife strapped to her side.

“How’s your knife? Any nicks? Blemishes? Dulling?”

“Nope! I cut a fish in half with it just this morning. It’s wicked. Thanks for getting it all ready for me. No complaints!”

Erin patted the kitchen knife at her side. It was the same knife that Maughin had given her after the competition with Pelt. Lorent’s perpetual frown seemed to ease as he nodded at it.

“That was a good knife. Excellently made. It can hold a keener edge than half my stock, easily. I’m glad you respect the metal. But I could also do the same for the rest of your knives. Just bring them in and I’ll give you a discount. Or order some from Maughin.”

Erin smiled, relaxed as she leaned on the counter.

“I will, I will. But they are sharp. I tested them. And your knives are dangerously edged! I don’t want to lose a finger; my hands aren’t armored. Have you ever thought about selling gloves to your non-Dullahan customers?”

Lorent’s brows rose.

“I have not. You mean like a chainmail glove? I could look into it. Although, some of my knives could cut through even steel links fairly easily…”

“Maybe that’s a selling point. Anyways, I’m on business. Lorent, you wouldn’t happen to know if Maughin’s in his forge today, would you?”

The Dullahan paused. He scratched his head with his fingers absently.

“Hmm. He should be working there. You have an order for him?”

“Not exactly. But I do have something fun in mind. Hey, thanks. I’ll see you there. Keep an eye on this street, okay? I’m going to do something fun later.”

Erin winked at Lorent and pointed back towards her door. He nodded.

“I’ll be here. If you spot anyone in need of sharp knives…”

The young woman paused. And a light bulb went off in her brain. Her plan suddenly expanded. She smiled conspiratorially at Lorent.

“I may. Do you have to sharpen knives in your shop?”

“I can sharpen a knife anywhere if I bring my tools. Why?”

“Hm. I may have a lot of business for you soon. Keep an open mind, will you?”

“My mind is completely open to business.”

Lorent watched Erin go. She waved at him, grinning. And she saw a faint smile on the reserved Dullahan’s lips. He liked her, or so Erin thought. She thought he was cool, even if he really did speak only about knives. And her meeting with him had given her another idea.

By now, Erin was used to Pallass. At least, the general layout. She knew where the regularly spaced out elevators were on each floor and at least a few good spots. She hopped into an elevator with a Gnoll attendant and three other Gnolls. The Gnoll raised his brows, surprised to see a Human.

“What floor?”

“Ninth! Thanks!”

Erin answered with a smile. The Gnoll nodded and pulled a lever. The elevator shot up fast, but Erin and the Gnolls were ready for it. She hopped out on the ninth floor as the elevator came to a stop. And ahead of her was the floor reserved for the [Alchemists] and [Blacksmiths], two of the industries that the city was known for.

“Here goes.”

The young Human woman marched down the floor by the guardrails. On her right, the forges appeared, clanging infernos of heat and steel. Erin could see sparks flying, Drakes, Dullahans, a few Gnolls, no Garuda, hard at work. Hammering despite the early hour. Few noticed her, but she kept her eyes open. And by the largest of the forges, she spotted a familiar Dullahan laboring in the back.

“Excuse me!”

Erin waved to one of the Drakes in the front. She had to call twice before the apprentice looked up. She trotted over after sticking a bar of metal into the forge to heat. Erin waved at her, maintaining a respectful distance from the forge; the [Smiths] had drawn a line in paint on the ground, beyond which safety was not guaranteed.

“Sorry! Can I ask if Maughin’s in this morning? And Pelt?”

The Drake recognized Erin at once. Her eyes went to the knife at her belt, and she stepped forwards to shout.

“You’re that Human, right? The one who goes to Master Rufelt’s tavern? And who got Mister Pelt to forge a knife?”

“Tails and Scales! That’s right! Where’s Maughin?”

“In the forge. Mister Pelt’s not here today. He’s probably got a hangover. I wouldn’t wait for him.”

The Drake grimaced. She pointed at an empty forge down the ways. Erin grimaced. Well, Pelt wasn’t her first choice. He was probably a bit of a disaster, in fact.

“Maughin’s fine. Can I ask you to call him over? If he’s not super-busy. Tell him it’s me!”

The Drake nodded. She trotted into the forge, and Erin waited patiently. She saw Maughin’s huge form turn, and soon he was trotting towards her. She looked up at him. Not since Moore had she seen anyone so huge, and Maughin wore his light metal armor over his entire body! He was already covered in sweat, but she saw that he had a water canteen in the basket he carried his head in. And he was drinking from a straw.

“Maughin! Hey!”

“Miss Erin. It is good to see you.”

Maughin smiled slightly as Erin waved at him and stepped over the warning line to meet him. He bent slightly, and his face was largely neutral. If you didn’t know Dullahans, his reserve might have even come off as passively hostile. But Erin knew Dullahans now, and the fact that he was smiling when he met her and that he used her first name meant he felt close enough to be informal.

Erin stopped and gave him a slight bow; Rufelt had told her it was customary for Dullahans to honor [Smiths] whom they held in high regard, even among friends. And Maughin’s pleased expression told Erin he noticed. He inclined his head back, and formalities done, they stepped further away from the forge so they wouldn’t have to shout.

“It is a surprise to see you here this early. May I ask if you’re intending to visit Rufelt and Lasica? Their tavern isn’t open at this hour, but I saw them going for a walk together as I was setting up.”

Maughin pointed down two floors. He had good eyes; Erin squinted at the distant shapes below.

“No…although I might want to talk to them. I was actually here to see you!”

“On business? My forge is occupied, but I can certainly talk about an order.”

Erin shook her head.

“Not quite. Tell me, do you have a lot of work today? Could you clear your schedule, Maughin?”

The Dullahan gave her a large frown.

“If it was an emergency, or the project demanded my attention, yes. Why?”

Perfect. Erin spread her arms, smiling broadly.

“I was hoping you’d come with me! I know it’s sudden, but it would really help me out. Can you abandon your forge—leave the work to your other smiths and apprentices? If you can, I’d love for you to come to Liscor with me.”

Erin had the benefit of seeing Maughin blink at her twice. The Dullahan who towered over her head actually picked up his head and rubbed at his ears with his hands. He put his head on his shoulders and leaned down, cupping a hand to one ear.

“Excuse me? Did you say, go to Liscor, Miss Erin? Why would I do that?”

The young woman beamed and spread her arms out.

“Well, why not? Have you ever sold any, uh, armor to Liscor? How’s the market for swords and stuff in Pallass?”

“There’s always a market. Not always the best one, but we export around the continent. To the rest of the world, even.”

The Dullahan frowned, rubbing his chin. Erin nodded.

“Right. You sell to [Merchants] and [Traders]. But what about selling directly to, I dunno, Celum? Isn’t it better to have multiple markets? To be competitive and stuff? You could check out the quality of their gear. And there’s this Gnoll [Armorer] in Liscor I’d like you to meet.”

“Today?”

“Yup.”

Maughin looked around, frowning as if he suspected Erin of pulling some kind of prank.

“You mean, right now.”

“Uh huh.”

The [Armorer] stared down at Erin. She stared up, smiling hopefully. At last, Maughin shook his head.

“It’s an interesting offer, Miss Erin. But this is really too sudden. I have work. Perhaps I might have time in a week. Or a few days, but today? My apprentices need supervision, we’re working on a set of armor for a [Knight], and I have four glaive heads to manufacture by the end of the week—”

He shook his head, frowning. Erin nodded, as yet undeterred. Time to get serious. She casually glanced over her shoulder, looking apologetically at Maughin.

“Too bad. There’s this election happening in Liscor right now, and it’s a big deal. I know Pallass is going to go through its elections, so I thought you could give my friends some tips. Oh, and one of my friends owns the Heartflame Breastplate and I was thinking you could maybe take a look at it. You know, Selys was wondering if she uncovered all of the functions. It sets itself on fire, very cool. And I made some cake I’d love for you to try…”

Maughin’s face had changed markedly during part of Erin’s little speech. He waved an urgent hand and bent even lower.

“Excuse me. Did you say the Heartflame Breastplate?”

Erin saw his Drake apprentice watching them from the forge out of the corner of her eye. She smiled innocently up at Maughin.

“What? Oh, yeah. And cake. But if you’re busy, I can totally understand.”

“Yes. I mean to say—no. I knew the Heartflame Breastplate was in Liscor. But you say your friend owns it? And I might be able to inspect it?”

Maughin cleared his throat a few times, uncharacteristically flustered.

“The Heartflame Breastplate? We are speaking about the same armor? This is not some—other breastplate?”

The young woman saw two of Maughin’s journeymen smiths, both Dullahans, glancing at their master from the forge. And another smith was eying her from a distance. She waved to the [Farrier], Bealt, at a distance. Then she took a deep breath and looked back at Maughin.

“No, sorry. I said the Heartflame Breastplate. The legendary artifact!”

Erin shouted it across the forges. The rhythmic, background beating of hammers hitting metal faltered. Erin heard an oath two forges over as someone hit himself on the hand. Another [Smith] poked his head out of the forge to stare. Erin looked up at Maughin.

“Zel Shivertail used to stay at my inn. He was a good guy. Drake. And his niece is Selys Shivertail. She’s my best friend. Wanna see her armor? She won’t mind. It’s not like she wears it.”

She shrugged nonchalantly. Maughin turned his head on his shoulders a hundred and eighty degrees. Erin eyed that queasily and saw him making a gesture behind his back. Whatever it meant, both of his journeymen Dullahan smiths took off their heads to nod very vigorously. And half a dozen [Smiths] were also drifting out of their forges. Maughin turned his head back and gave Erin a very casual look. He coughed once.

“Well. I…I would be delighted. I don’t think I need to work on all my pieces right at this moment. Why not?”

“Great! Then let’s take a stroll to Liscor! It’s on the eighth floor. Hey Bealt!”

“Miss Solstice! Did I just hear you say the Heartflame Breastplate?”

“Yeah! We’re going to look at it! Hey, I’ll catch you later, okay?”

Erin waved at the Gnoll. He opened his mouth. Apologetically, Erin cut him off.

“And—sorry! One [Blacksmith] is probably enough! You know about what they say about cooks and broth! It’s probably the same with smiths and armor!”

“What? But I—”

Bealt tried to climb over his anvil and nearly burned himself. Maughin looked at Erin as she waved apologetically at the other smiths. He eyed a Drake trying to get to them while taking off his apron.

“Ah, we should go. I’d hate to keep your friend waiting.”

“Sure, sure! Where’s the nearest elevator?”

The Dullahan pointed.

“The personal elevators are somewhat cramped. We may take the stairs. Follow me.”

He set off. Erin waved at the other smiths, who were shouting questions, and hurried off. She was trying not to laugh. Maughin strode towards the nearest grand staircase until he realized his stride was leaving Erin behind. Then he hurried back to her.

“My apologies, Miss Erin. But you’re sure? This isn’t an issue? I would be allowed to inspect the breastplate at my leisure? No, a glance would suffice. But if I could test it with a hammer—”

“Sure! Sure! Selys isn’t using it. Grab a hammer!”

Erin waited as Maughin practically raced back. The Dullahan was huffing when he returned. He looked at her.

“And you know the owner of the Heartflame Breastplate?”

“Yup. She’s a [Receptionist]. We’re old friends. Well, not old, but she inherited it. Man. I was so sad when I heard Zel died.”

“A tragedy. Pallass was in mourning for weeks.”

Maughin nodded carefully. He led the way down the stairs. Even with Pallass’ many citizens, he stood out. As big as Moore. But apparently they could get even bigger. Erin imagined what one of the War Walkers—which were apparently super-huge Dullahans—would look like. She shook her head as she went down the stairs.

“Apologies. I don’t move around much from level to level. Aside from the larger elevators, I find it difficult.”

Maughin apologized as he navigated down the steps far slower than he’d walked. Erin didn’t mind; from the expressions of the pedestrians hurrying to get clear below Maughin, they weren’t keen on him tripping and falling either.

“No problem. Hey, I appreciate you taking the time. How’s business been? I haven’t really stopped to chat since that knife-making competition with Pelt and Bealt. I saw you in Tails and Scales, of course, the other day.”

“Two days ago.”

Maughin nodded. His head wobbled and he put a hand up and secured it—Erin got the impression he was locking it into place.

“Yes, business has been fine. Ordinary. I haven’t completed any large projects. Pelt drinks too much as usual.”

“Is he—more depressed than normal? The knife he made is really awesome, but I feel bad about making him upset. I tried to talk to him twice, but every time I come up here, he runs off.”

Maughin frowned. He gripped the edge of the large divider between the left and right sides of the stairs for support.

“No. I wouldn’t say that. He’s always drunk himself to oblivion. If anything, he’s working harder than usual. But I would say that he has strong feelings about your knife. And his past. I would not inquire. It would be impolite. And perhaps we caused some offense by finishing his knife. Still, I judge it acceptable; steel that fine cannot simply be wasted.”

Erin nodded. She wished Dawil were still here so she could introduce him to Pelt. Too bad, it was one of those things you took for granted. Then again, it wasn’t like they would know each other. Or get along. She sighed, hopped down the last eight steps, and waited for Maughin to catch up. As she waited, she heard another familiar voice.

“Up those steps! Are you [Mages] or limp-tailed [Scribes]? Pump those legs! This is the last stretch! That’s it!”

Erin peered down the steps. On cue, she saw a huge, muscular figure swarming up the stairs as pedestrians got out of the way. It was a Drake, dressed in robes, but with the body of a professional bodybuilder. And following him was a group of Drakes and one Gnoll, all gasping for air. The Drake summited the steps on the eighth floor and immediately turned to harangue his apprentices.

“You want to learn magic? You pay the price! If you can’t do three laps each morning, how can I expect you to cast a [Fireball] spell? Get those knees up! Faster! That’s right, that’s right…alright, you can rest.”

He waved a disgusted claw at his apprentices as they simply collapsed on the eighth floor. The Gnoll pulled out a water bottle and splashed it over her fur. A Drake pulled out a stamina potion. The [Mage] slapped it out of his hands in a moment.

“You fool! I told you time and again, potions are a shortcut! You want to build a body that’s strong? You don’t rely on potions! They’ll stunt your growth!”

He smashed the bottle on the ground and stomped on the glass shards, ignoring the questionable logic of that decision. The Drake moaned. The [Mage] opened his mouth for further shouting, and Erin waved her hands desperately.

“Ooh! Ooh! Hey! You’re Grimalkin, right? Remember me?”

Grimalkin turned. The muscular [Mage]’s eyes widened, and he pointed a claw.

“I do! Your name is…”

“Erin Solstice?”

Erin stepped to one side to let Maughin move past her. Grimalkin bounded over, leaving his poor apprentices to hug the ground and sweat.

“Erin Solstice? Ah, yes! The Human with guts! An honor! We didn’t get a chance to speak last time.”

He held out a hand. Erin shook it, and her hand was immediately crushed by a huge hand. She beamed up at him. Well, wasn’t this a lucky surprise?

“It’s great to see you. Hey—this is a question out of the blue, but—do you want to visit Liscor?”

“What Liscor?”

“What?”

Behind Erin, Maughin turned his head. Erin turned to smile at him.

“Yeah! The more the merrier! I don’t know what there is for Grimalkin to see, but I’d love to have him. What about it? We’re going right now. Got any spare time?”

The [Mage] blinked, and then folded his arms. His biceps, triceps, and other ceps rippled with the motion. Grimalkin looked up at the sky, tapping one foot.

“Liscor. Liscor…why not? I just finished my morning run with these slugs, and they need a moment. And I’d love to meet the Gecko of Liscor. You wouldn’t happen to know him, would you?”

“Relc? Of course! He’s one of my oldest clients! I can totally introduce you to him! Come on! We’ll go together! Grimalkin, this is Maughin. Do you two know each other?”

The Drake craned his thick neck up. Maughin blinked down at him. The Drake gnawed one lip.

“Hm. Yes I do. Not personally. Pleased. Grimalkin, [Mage].”

“Ah. A pleasure. Maughin. [Blacksmith].”

The two shook hands, blinking at each other. Erin grinned.

“Alright! And if we see Rufelt and Lasica—no, wait, the door will probably shut down. I hope the Horns can charge it. Alright, with me!”

She waved the two onwards. Grimalkin paused to bark back at his apprentices.

“You get a reprieve! When we get back, we’ll keep studying!”

Erin saw one of the Drakes lying on the ground raise her head and give Erin a desperate look of gratitude. The [Innkeeper] waved a hand. Then she marched ahead, leading Maughin and Grimalkin behind her. The Dullahan was turning his head from both Erin to Grimalkin now. But Erin was talking to Grimalkin.

“We just met once. But are you really a muscle-mage? Or a [Mage] that uses the magic of…muscles?”

Grimalkin laughed. He had an energetic pace that matched Maughin’s longer legs; Erin was the one who had to jog to keep up.

“Muscle magic? I suppose that’s one word for it! I’m an expert on physical enhancement. It’s an underdeveloped school of magic. But it essentially allows me to enhance a body’s capacity.”

“Right, like casting strength enchantments on me or something?”

“Exactly. Although that’s a common spell. Still, it’s rare enough to see a [Mage] specializing in that. Why bother with enchanting someone to swing a sword harder when you can throw a [Fireball]? Hah. Well, I also believe a conditioned body is a key to a [Mage]’s success, both academically and in battle. Hence my rigorous training regimen.”

“I can see that. You’ve, uh, got muscles everywhere. Even your tail is thick.”

Erin looked at Grimalkin’s tail. He laughed.

“Exactly! You know, most species consider our tails a hindrance in battle. But tails provide support, a means of catching your opponents off-guard—but listen to me talk on. Humans don’t have tails. I’m always amazed at your sense of balance without.”

“It does get hard. Speaking of which, Maughin, Grimalkin, I hear the Assembly of Crafts is going to have elections soon. That’s what Rufelt and Lasica always tell me about when I visit their bar. How’s that going?”

Maughin, who’d been opening his mouth for a word edgewise for a while now, paused. He and Grimalkin looked at each other, and then both spoke at once.

“My apologies.”

Grimalkin cleared his throat.

“No, no. Go ahead, uh, Master Maughin.”

“Ah. Thank you. Well, as I understand it Miss Solstice, the elections are fierce. It’s between the Protectorate party and the Unitail group this year. They are the two major parties attempting to gain a majority. Last year, the Protectorate managed to form a ruling party coalition with one of the smaller groups—the Zeresian group.”

Grimalkin nodded vigorously. Erin raised her eyebrows.

“Zeresian group?”

The two paused, and Maughin extended a palm. Grimalkin leapt in.

“They favor strong ties with Zeres, who have historically been Pallass’ closest allies. A breakoff from the Protectorate party, which favors Pallassian independence. Whereas the Unitail group, which I suppose Master Maughin and the craftspeople favor, is in support of free trade and open borders between all cities. The Protectorate puts tariffs on the other Walled Cities’ goods, which in turns leads them to tax our alchemical goods and steel. Myself, I consider it all too political. The Assembly is always fighting for power.”

“You’re not in favor of open borders?”

Maughin rumbled from behind Grimalkin, looking disapproving. The [Mage] turned his head back.

“Oh, largely, I suppose. It’s just that I don’t see why we need to tie voting for open borders to this huge discussion about parties and whatnot. I’m tired of it all. Then again, I grew up here. It doesn’t matter to me who’s in charge so long as I can practice my craft in peace. Pallass doesn’t have as strong a mage community as, say Fissival, Miss Erin. We tend to stay out of the politics. Ironic, I know, but we’re not Wistram.”

He addressed Erin. She nodded. Maughin continued to look disapproving, so she turned to him.

“You’re going to vote, Maughin? Are you a full citizen?”

He nodded stiffly.

“I have lived in Pallass for over six years, which is the requisite minimum to be considered a full citizen and accorded voting rights. That in itself is a recent development; the minimum duration required to be considered a citizen was lowered from ten years to six in an election three years back.”

Grimalkin snapped his clawed fingers absently.

“Ah, I remember that. I voted to lower the age restriction.”

“You did?”

Maughin looked mollified. Grimalkin nodded briskly.

“Six years, eight years—if you’ve lived in a city for at least two years, why not call yourself a citizen? You pay taxes either way.”

“I wouldn’t go as far as two years. But if you’ll vote for lowering the age requirement, what about open borders and more protection for other cities? The Protectorate—”

Grimalkin made a disgusted sound and raised a claw.

“Agh! They don’t have my vote. Satisfied? I wasn’t a fan of how they handled the Liscor crisis. Not at all. I admit, I liked their stance when Salazsar was throwing its weight around and inflating the prices of gemstones five years back, but this is too far.”

“Exactly what Rufelt and Lasica have been saying.”

Maughin nodded contentedly. Grimalkin nodded and muttered out of the corner of his mouth to Erin.

“Dullahans never give up an argument. Word of advice, Miss Solstice. How did you come to know Maughin anyways?”

“He knew Rufelt and Lasica, who’re my friends. And I got this knife from a smithing competition.”

The muscle [Mage] blinked as Erin showed him the knife. He bent down while walking to inspect it.

“I do remember that! And you! That’s the second time—wonderful display. Form and physique on show for all to see. That Dwarf was especially good, but Maughin has a classic [Blacksmith]’s build.”

He and Erin both turned to look at the Dullahan. Maughin stopped.

“I do?”

The Drake nodded. He walked around the Dullahan, speaking rapidly and gesturing at his arms and legs.

“Good physique. A bit upper-body intensive, but I can respect that out of a [Blacksmith]. Still, you could do some leg exercises. You’re aware that Dullahans grow to fit your armor, I’m sure, but that strength is often underused. May I ask if you do any kind of curling exercises?”

“Curling? How?”

Grimalkin sighed. He adjusted his robes, and for a moment, the fabric strained against his chest, revealing a row of rippling abdominal muscles. Erin oohed, and Maughin looked impressed—then embarrassed. He averted his gaze.

“Abdominal muscles. It’s the—the foundation of every movement. Even trained warriors neglect their stomachs and backs. I’ve discovered that it’s criminally underused, however. I’m trying to raise awareness, but it’s hard to convince a [Warrior] that he needs to do sit-ups to improve his swing. I realize it’s not obvious at first glance, but the body is connected, you understand?”

The Drake patted his stomach disconsolately. Erin nodded rapidly.

“No, I totally get it! You’re talking about the core, right?”

Grimalkin turned his head and snapped his fingers.

“The core? Excellent name! Where did you come up with that?”

“Well, where I come from, people know about it—”

“They do? Tell me more! Wait, where do you come from?”

Erin’s tongue tangled in her mouth. She hesitated.

“W-well, I—the core’s just the core, right? And you do all kinds of stretches. Sorry, I’m not an expert, but I do know about dynamic stretching versus static.”

“Which is?”

“Well, you do this instead of…”

Erin began showing Grimalkin some stretches in the street, doing arm swings, rotating her body—Grimalkin walked around her, nodding.

“I see. I see. That’s—well, I’ve found the same thing. Stationary stretching tires the muscles, or so it feels, while this—but most [Soldiers] won’t do either before a battle. And I keep telling Pallass’ [Strategists], if an army took ten minutes to warm up before charging into the fray—”

Maughin took his head off and rubbed at his eyes. When the Dullahan put his head back on his shoulders, he cleared his throat gently. Erin and Grimalkin looked up. The Dullahan massaged his temple gently.

“I apologize for interrupting. But I must confess, Miss Erin. I am not certain why I’m here. Is this…why are we here?”

He gestured to Erin and Grimalkin. The young woman realized she was doing stretches in the middle of the street. She blushed; Grimalkin just looked around blankly as if nothing were out of the ordinary. She shrugged.

“Sorry, Maughin. We should get going if we want to get to Liscor.”

“I understand. But you’ve invited me and Magus Grimalkin. Why?”

“…Because I saw him?”

Erin gave Maughin a wide-eyed stare. He searched her face for anything, but clearly didn’t find it.

“So you invited him to go to Liscor? And me, because I was available?”

“Yep. That’s all there is to it. I was gonna get Rufelt and Lasica if you were busy. But this is great too. Grimalkin’s part of the plan.”

“I am? What plan?”

The [Mage] looked suspiciously at Erin as he tried out one of her stretches. Erin shrugged.

“Just something cool. Don’t worry. It’ll be fun! I promise. And you’ll get to see the armor, Maughin. And Relc.”

The two males looked unconvinced. Erin blew out her cheeks. This was why you didn’t tell people they were part of a plan. She threw her hands up.

“It’s just something that will help me out! Besides, do you have a reason not to follow me?”

Grimalkin and Maughin exchanged a glance. After a second, Erin turned and walked down the street. They followed her. Grimalkin muttered out of the other corner of his mouth to Maughin.

“You do know her, right? Are we walking into some kind of ambush? I’m fine with it; I can handle myself. You?”

“I’ve met her a handful of times. I’m told she’s an [Innkeeper] of some sort. But I must confess, I have never actually witnessed her inn or at work—”

“I’m on holiday! Geeze!”

Erin stopped in front of her magical door. She glared back at Maughin and Grimalkin. The Dullahan looked abashed; Grimalkin didn’t. He put his hands on his hips, eying the door as Erin strolled up to Kel the [Guardsman]. The Drake was giving her much the same look as the two men.

“Hey Kel! Two to go through. There’s no fee, right?”

“What? Are you insane? You can’t just bring—that’s Maughin! Our top smith! And that’s Magus Grimalkin! He’s our combat [Mage]!”

Kel spluttered as he pointed at the Dullahan and Grimalkin. Maughin looked pleased, and Grimalkin held out a hand to shake.

“Top smith? Well done.”

“It is a small exaggeration. The Dwarf, Pelt, puts out better quality goods than I can. But I suppose it’s a matter of reliability—”

“Nonsense. That’s an achievement for anyone, let alone someone working Pallass’ forges. I won’t ask your level, but you’re not, what, forty? You must have been a genius. Baleros-born?”

“Yes. I received some accolades, but I thought I wouldn’t grow competing with smiths from my home. So I journeyed to Pallass. I had assumed I’d run up against countless masters.”

“Well, since old Lassilt died of a stroke, I suppose the field is clearer. The other Walled Cities poached two smiths, damn them. And Pelt’s been here a while, but I suppose your work’s really kept us at the top.”

“It is an honor to hear you say so—”

Kel stared at the two. Erin ignored the conversation behind her. She leaned on the door.

“Yeah, I know it’s Maughin and Grimalkin. So what? They can go through, and there’s no fee. Isn’t that right?”

“Yes, but—you have no list, and they’re—”

The Drake spluttered. Erin rolled right over him, speaking louder for the benefit of anyone passing by. Maughin and Grimalkin were certainly attracting looks on the street.

“Then what’s the problem? They’re free to go through. So am I. Move it! Shoo! Shoo!”

“You can’t!”

“I can! Grimalkin, can you give me a hand? Squash this guy’s head like a grape or something?”

Grimalkin strolled over. He ignored Erin, who was pushing at Kel, and investigated the door.

“I’ve seen this door before. Never gone through, of course. So this is the artifact that everyone’s so eager to use, is it? Let’s see.”

He opened the door. Instantly, Erin’s inn appeared on the other side. Erin brightened up. Lyonette had kept it set to Pallass! She waved at Maughin. The Dullahan was staring.

“See? It’s my door! Hey! Is Lyonette there? I’ve got guests!”

“Who is it? Erin?”

The young woman heard voices from the other side. Then Mrsha appeared. The white Gnoll galloped into view, blinked up at Maughin, and then fled. The Dullahan stared at her.

“Incredible. It truly is a magic door. I hadn’t seen it before.”

“Fascinating. This is clearly a portal spell. And it can transmit, what, hundreds of miles? I can’t imagine how powerful the enchantment on the door must be. It has to be worth at least ten thousand—no, possibly a hundred thousand—of course, these spells were more common during certain eras of magical kingdoms. And we do have teleportation spells. But this is so convenient. And there’s no charge?”

Grimalkin rubbed his claws together. Kel tried to protest, but Erin hip-bumped him to one side and motioned Maughin up.

“Yeah! Come on through! Promise it’s not a trap. Hey, Mrsha! Watch out! Maughin’s coming through.”

The Dullahan hesitated. He peered through the doorway but, encouraged by Erin’s smile and very interested despite himself, stepped through the doorway. He blinked as his foot hit the floor of Erin’s inn. He turned around, blinking, then peered into the room.

“Incredible. Are we really—”

He turned to look at Erin and the door went dead. Kel swore. Erin just groaned.

“Aw. He was too big! Normally we can get two people through. Don’t worry! I heard Ceria on the other side. She can charge the door!”

Grimalkin looked surprised. He raised his brows.

“It ran out of mana? No wonder. But that’s a simple enough fix.”

So saying, he put a claw on the door and took a breath. Erin blinked at him.

“You can recharge it?”

“I am a [Mage]. Hm. This door drains mana like no one’s business. But no matter. Concentration! Huah!”

His shout made Kel, Erin, and the onlookers jump. The image of Erin’s inn immediately reappeared in the doorway, like a television turning on. Erin saw Maughin peering at the door anxiously a few steps back. Pisces blinked into the door, and both he and Ceria recoiled.

“Wow! What was that?”

“Hi Ceria! Morning! Grimalkin just fixed the door. Thanks! How’d you do it so fast?”

Erin turned to Grimalkin. Pisces stared as Grimalkin flexed one arm, and his entire body rippled. The Drake replied casually.

“A [Mage] can store mana in his body. I just released some. May I enter?”

“No—”

Erin elbowed Kel in the side.

“Please! Me next!”

Grimalkin stepped delicately through the doorway, and then Erin. She turned and saw Kel glaring at her from Pallass.

“Sorry, Kel! They’ll be back later! Watch the door for me, alright?”

“Watch Captain Venim will hear about this, you—you—”

Erin shut the door on his face. She turned and beamed at Grimalkin. He was looking around her inn. So was Maughin. The Dullahan blinked up at the ceiling that even he could stand naturally under, and then the large room.

“This is quite spacious. Impressively so. No inn in Pallass has this much space.”

“It’s clearly the result of dimensional magic. Or a Skill. See how the room just repeats itself minus the windows after this point? Fascinating. And useful. So we’re in Liscor?”

Grimalkin strode over to a window. He looked out, exclaimed, and peered around excitedly. Maughin looked up.

“What is it?”

“Come and see! The entire landscape is changed! We’re right in the middle of the High Passes!”

The Dullahan’s jaw dropped. He strode over, avoiding a chair, and pulled off his head to see. Erin heard a faint sound; she turned and saw Ceria staring open-mouthed at the Dullahan.

“It’s—Erin, is that a War Walker?”

“Naw, just Maughin. He’s big, but not War Walker big. Hey Pisces.”

The [Necromancer] didn’t immediately respond. He was staring at Maughin and Grimalkin both. Then he looked at Erin.

“That Drake is a powerful [Mage].”

“Yup. He’s a [Sinew Magus] or something. His name is Grimalkin.”

“Grimalkin. You mean, the Grimalkin? The insane fool who thinks magic is tied to the body?”

“That would be me.”

Grimalkin’s claw fell on Pisces’ shoulder. The [Necromancer] paled. He turned. Grimalkin looked disapprovingly down at him.

“And you would be…a [Necromancer]. No, don’t bother answering. I can tell. Your aura screams death magic. And the half-Elf’s a [Cryomancer]. Poor form, both of you. You at least have some arm and leg muscle, boy, but you’re both completely unfit.”

“Excuse me?”

Ceria gaped up at Grimalkin. The Drake shook his head.

“What’s your backup when you run out of magic, Miss? An enchanted dagger? Running away and hoping the rest of your team takes care of the fighting? I don’t want to be rude, but is that how you lost your hand? Have you ever considered learning how to use a sword as well as fighting? [Spellswords] get a bad rap, but in my experience, they live longer when things go south. Now, I can respect a [Fencer]’s build, but that rapier won’t go through anything like a Wyvern’s hide—”

Erin backed away as Ceria and Pisces tried to object—and then run away—and Grimalkin grabbed both their shoulders. She edged over to Maughin. He was staring out of a window, entranced. He turned his head to her.

“We have travelled hundreds of miles in a moment. This is truly powerful magic, Miss Solstice.”

“I know. Isn’t it great? I never thought I could do this myself. And this is my inn, Maughin! I told you I had one.”

Erin waved a hand around. Maughin turned his head to look. Erin saw a flash of white—Mrsha disappeared around the back of a table.

“Aw. Mrsha. It’s just Maughin. He’s a Dullahan. Don’t worry, he can put his head back. Come here.”

Erin went to find Mrsha. The Gnoll cub shrank as Erin pulled her out of the table. Maughin bowed his head slightly, then put it on his shoulders.

“Good evening, little one.”

He held out a finger to shake. Mrsha timidly shook it, then sniffed Maughin’s finger. She looked relieved, and the Dullahan smiled. Then he looked alarmed and shielded his head.

“Miss Erin. There is a gigantic bug over there. Hold the child safe. I will squash it.”

“No! That’s Apista!”

Erin yelped. Maughin stared at her. Mrsha rushed over to protect the Ashfire Bee, and Apista landed on her head. The Dullahan stared at Mrsha. At Apista. At Erin as she tried to explain. He had to sit on the floor.

“Okay! Everyone, stop!”

Erin waved her hands. Grimalkin, Maughin, Mrsha, Apista, Pisces, and Ceria looked up. Erin turned around. She took a deep breath.

“Maughin, Grimalkin, this is my inn. And this is Mrsha—wave, Mrsha—and Apista. She’s the pet of one of my employees. That’s Pisces and Ceria—they’re Silver-rank adventurers. Everyone, this is Maughin and Grimalkin. Maughin’s a [Blacksmith], the best in Pallass! And Grimalkin’s a Muscle Mage. They’re here to visit.”

“Pleased to meet you all.”

Maughin took off his head to bow, looking a bit shell-shocked. Grimalkin bowed slightly. He eyed Mrsha, who eyed him as if she weren’t sure he was actually a Drake. Erin smiled.

“Okay? Everyone cool?”

Pisces and Ceria nodded. Both edged a bit away from Grimalkin. Mrsha came over, with Apista in her paws. Grimalkin peered down at the Ashfire bee.

“I’ve seen odd familiars. Even someone trying to raise Creler as a pet. But I have to admit—I’m somewhat thrown. Hello there. Mrsha?”

He gingerly offered Mrsha a claw. Apista showed her stinger; Grimalkin withdrew the claw. Erin looked around, beaming. Maughin was shaking his head.

“This is quite an experience. I was just at my forge. Now—I am fine. Thank you, Miss Erin. I have been discourteous.”

He rose and approached Pisces and Ceria. They shook his hands, staring up at him.

“A pleasure.”

“Uh, likewise. Master Maughin, is it?”

Ceria stammered. Pisces nodded. He shook Maughin’s hand.

“I am a humble servant of magic, Master Maughin. The day’s greetings with you. Please forgive our lax manners.”

Maughin blinked. He inclined his head.

“No offense taken. I am pleased to meet you. Magus Pisces?”

The [Necromancer] smiled effusively.

“You honor me. I am but a student compared to Magus Grimalkin, but my Captain and I—Captain Ceria Springwalker of the Horns of Hammerad—may one day hope to seek your services. I hope you keep us in mind in that eventuality.”

“Ah. Of course.”

Maughin’s face immediately clouded over. Ceria looked at Pisces, shook herself, and then elbowed him in the side.

“Ignore my companion. I’m pleased to meet you. You’re from Pallass? And their…top [Blacksmith]?”

Both she and Pisces shot Erin a sideways glance. The [Innkeeper] ignored it. She smiled at Grimalkin and Maughin. They both blinked at her. This was clearly not how they’d expected to start their days. And yet—Erin smiled.

“We’re just going for a walk in the city, Ceria. You know? Maybe to see Krshia and her lot?”

“Ah.”

Pisces snapped his fingers, looking amused. Ceria’s eyes widened. She nodded silently. Grimalkin cleared his throat.

“I suppose this is part of the plan you mentioned?”

“Maybe?”

“What plan?”

Maughin warily looked from Erin to Grimalkin. The young woman opened her mouth. And then Numbtongue walked into the inn, with a huge basket of blue fruits cradled in one arm. He paused, staring at Maughin. The Dullahan turned. His face turned pale.

“Hob—”

“Down!”

Grimalkin roared. He didn’t cast a spell, he just leapt forwards, one fist raised. Numbtongue recoiled, and Erin shouted.

“No! He’s a friend!”

“A what?”

The Drake stopped. Numbtongue windmilled wildly, spilling blue fruits and catching the door’s edge for balance. Maughin stared at him, and then at Erin.

“I heard Goblins frequented your inn. But this?”

He pointed at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin stared at Grimalkin. The [Mage] eyed him from head to toe. He opened his mouth, hesitated, and then patted Numbtongue on one shoulder.

“Good muscles.”

He turned to Erin. She grinned weakly.

“It’s Numbtongue. He’s a Goblin, yeah. But he’s my, uh, employee? And friend. He stays here. He’s actually a [Bard].”

She pointed at Numbtongue. He edged past Grimalkin with the blue fruits’ basket in one arm. He paused and lifted his guitar, waved it once, and then put the basket on the nearest table. Erin coughed.

“So yeah. That’s Numbtongue.”

“Goblins working at an inn. Well, it’s your funeral, Miss Erin.”

Grimalkin shook his head, bemused. He looked over at Maughin. The Dullahan seemed petrified by the sight of Numbtongue. The [Bard], eying Maughin’s armor and huge form, was staying clear as well.

“He’s nice! Don’t worry, Numbtongue. Maughin’s a [Blacksmith]. He’s great! Really! And he can take his head off.”

Erin tried to soothe Numbtongue. Grimalkin folded his arms, looking from Numbtongue to Maughin. The Dullahan hesitated. He looked back at the magic door. Mrsha trotted over to it, clicked the dial, opened the door, and checked it. Celum and Octavia’s shop briefly appeared. Mrsha clicked the dial, again, and the stand of blue fruit trees appeared. The Dullahan groaned and sat back down again.

“This is all too much.”

“It’s fine. It really is. Numbtongue, say hi! Don’t shake your head at me! Maughin’s great! Grimalkin’s the one who could pull your head off. He’s a Muscle Mage.”

“I think that term isn’t quite appropriate—”

“We’re back. What did we—oh.”

Erin’s head turned. Maughin’s head turned. Grimalkin made a fist, caught himself, and stared. Ceria groaned slightly. Pisces grinned from ear to ear.

Yvlon and Ksmvr halted in the doorway as Liscor appeared behind them. The Human woman and Antinium stared at Maughin, then at Grimalkin. Erin glanced at Maughin too. The Dullahan had stopped breathing. She gingerly waved a hand.

“Hi Ksmvr. Yvlon.”

Yvlon looked at her. She stared at Maughin.

“Uh. Hi, Erin. We were having our morning training. Who’re our guests?”

“This is Maughin. He’s a Dullahan. And this is Grimalkin. Uh, Maughin, Grimalkin, meet Yvlon and Ksmvr. They’re part of the Horns of Hammerad. Yvlon’s a [Warrior] and Ksmvr is—”

“Antinium.”

Maughin breathed the word. And for him, it was a note of horror. Horror, incredulity—both were written across his face. Ksmvr tilted his head, then approached cheerfully. He stuck out his right hand.

“An Antinium, in point of fact. And I am no longer affiliated with my Hive. Good morning. I am Ksmvr, adventurer for hire.”

The Dullahan recoiled. He looked at Erin with an expression of shock. She stared back innocently. Grimalkin broke the silence by stepping forwards. He peered at Ksmvr with narrowed eyelids. The Antinium turned towards him with an open hand. Grimalkin ignored it.

“Hm. Not bad. Not bad. I’ve seen corpses and fought a few, but even the Workers have a very efficient build. Of course, insects’ bodies are very efficient. No wasted fat. And four arms, excepting injuries in this case. Hm. I’ve often wondered if it’s inefficient.”

“I have wondered the same thing. But I am very sturdy. You may attempt to push me over if you wish. May I shake your hand?”

Grimalkin eyed Ksmvr. He shook his head abruptly.

“No. I fought in both the First and Second Antinium Wars. And I forgot Liscor had a Hive. Well, this day does get more and more interesting, doesn’t it, Maughin?”

He looked back at the Dullahan. Maughin stared palely at Ksmvr as the [Skirmisher] cheerfully turned to him. He looked at Erin. Then he gingerly reached out and shook the hand. Mainly to get Ksmvr to go away. But the Antinium just kept standing there after he was done. Maughin passed a hand over his pale face.

“I…am not certain why I’m here.”

Erin bit her lip. She looked from Grimalkin, to Maughin, to Mrsha, who was happily sniffing Yvlon’s boots, to Pisces who had stuffed part of his robe into his mouth to cover his laughter, to Numbtongue, who was eating a blue fruit and eying Grimalkin. Ceria met Erin’s eyes. The two looked at each other and burst out laughing. It was Yvlon who sighed. And Ksmvr who brightly spread his arms.

“Welcome to The Wandering Inn. My name is Ksmvr.”



——



Liscor’s streets were full of shouting. You could hear Lism’s voice eight streets down. Krshia’s growling shouts nine streets. But in this case at least, volume didn’t matter. The debate about the elections was hot on everyone’s tongues as they stood around and debated, or worked and chattered.

A Gnoll [Tailor] poked herself in the thumb as she debated with her assistants, both of whom were Drakes. A [Butcher] talked with his clients as he prepared a cut of meat.

“The Council’s voted. We’re having elections. A democracy. Like Pallass. Who would have thought?”

“I think it’s overdue. But who will you vote for?”

“Well, seeing as there’s two choices right now, I’ll have to vote for Raekea. She’s in my district.”

“Voting for your species? Come on now.”

“What’s wrong with that? What’s wrong with a Gnoll on the Council?”

“Nothing. If you’re not selling Liscor to do it. Can we trust the Antinium?”

“I saw you going to Senior Guardsman Klbkch just the other day.”

“That’s different. This is about security. And if we can make some jobs and guard our walls—Strategist Olesm is with Lism.”

“Lism’s a racist old bag of wind.”

“I think he makes sense myself.”

“When I was young, the Antinium weren’t here. And we got on fine ourselves.”

“It’s not just about the Antinium. If you’re not voting for a Gnoll, that’s racist.”

“Says who?”

Debate. Arguments. But it was hard, harder now to argue for Krshia. Because the Antinium Wars were on the mind. And, fair play, Lism had his objectionable qualities. But then again, Krshia was fielding only Gnoll candidates, and Lism had now pushed forwards three Gnolls for his Council seats, all in Gnoll-heavy districts. How about that?

Market Street was abuzz with crowds listening to the debates. Selys was wincing as Lism hammered Krshia. He was pointing at the Gnoll and waving an arm to the crowd.

“It’s a simple question! Let’s have the Free Queen or Klbkch answer it, why don’t we? Have the Antinium ever plotted to harm Liscor or its citizens in the last year? Does the Grand Queen intend to pursue war with Liscor? How many Soldiers does the Hive have? Any of these questions—any of them answered under truth spell! How about it, Silverfang? Can’t we at least ask our ‘allies’ if they’ve ever plotted to stab us in the back?”

“You and I know that the Free Antinium are not the same as the other Hives. And has Liscor not plotted to attack the Free Antinium if it comes to battle? Tell me we do not have spells and measures in place for that very day?”

Krshia’s voice was weary and furious. Lism made a scoffing sound, amplified by his voice charm.

“Safeguards, not plans of attack, Silverfang. And, might I add, who needs to prepare for an attack amongst allies? Hm? How much are the Antinium offering now?”

“Thirty percent of the construction. Better than the Walled Cities would do. And they’ll pay six thousand gold pieces per year—”

“All of which is useless when we’re lying with our throats slit in the streets. Or maybe it’s just those of us who don’t fall into line and wag our tails, is that it, Krshia? Tell me, did the Antinium buy your loyalty? And how much was it?”

The crowd howled with glee and outrage. Krshia snarled. Lism raised his claws, smiling unctuously at the crowd.

“It’s just a question, people! But for our peace of mind, will you swear it on a truth spell? Oh wait—I forgot. That’s not something we should be doing.”

“Tell me, do you really believe in your plan for the city? Or did you steal it from me and let your nephew, Olesm, take charge because you just couldn’t stand the idea of a Gnoll on the Council that badly, Lism?”

Krshia’s retort and Lism’s reply were lost by another set of jeering from the crowd. This time against Krshia. Selys, standing behind Krshia’s platform, winced. She looked around and met Elirr’s eyes.

“She’s getting slaughtered up there!”

The Gnoll [Beast Trainer] growled, visibly upset.

“She is. Where is Klbkch? Can he not answer any of these questions?”

“Do we want him to?”

Selys grabbed at her neck spines in frustration. She hated to admit it, but Lism had a point. A really good one that he was using to hammer Krshia with. They had to change the topic somehow! Lism, or rather, Olesm daring Klbkch to swear on a truth spell that he didn’t have plans to attack Liscor was inspired. It was really bothering people, Selys included.

Of course, the Antinium probably had plans to attack Liscor. But they were allies. Right? Everyone had a backup plan. But…why had Klbkch refused to take Olesm’s bait, then? Couldn’t he say something? Selys shook her head. Her claws trembled on her notes.

“I can’t do this. I’m no [Strategist]—I can’t figure out anything good to say back! That stupid, eel-faced Lism is going to win! And all because—where’s Erin?”

“We haven’t seen her.”

“She promised she’d do something.”

Elirr nodded gently.

“But what? She cannot perform miracles, no?”

“I know. But it’s Erin. If anyone can do something, it’s her.”

Despairingly, Selys turned her head. She knew it was unfair to pin so much on Erin. This wasn’t even her city. Not really. But she was Selys’ friend. Surely she could do something, right?

But what? The crowd erupted into more cheers, and Selys looked up to see Lism raising his arms and Krshia grimacing. It said it all. The elections weren’t even happening yet—the Council had tentatively put them a week from today. And already, it felt like it was over. Selys thought about confronting Olesm, asking him what it would take for Lism to back down—disavowing the Antinium maybe. But could they hijack Lism’s platform in return?

And then, Selys felt it. It was like a ripple through the crowd. She couldn’t hear it—Lism’s voice was drowning out any other sound. But she felt it. A sudden lapse in attention. A turning, shifting, as people, with that animalistic instinct, realized something was going on behind them. And Selys turned. She whirled and knew.



——



Here she came. Three streets over, and strolling. Just walking along, chattering to the exceedingly buff Drake on her right. The giant, armored…Human? On her left. Maughin and Grimalkin. Erin was pointing at the street, speaking louder than normal because of the distant shouting.

“And this is a street. You like streets, don’t you? I’ll grant you, it’s not as nice as Pallass’ smooth stone walkways, but it’s a good street.”

“Rugged. Rounded cobblestones. They’ve been worn smooth, but some are going to come loose and leave potholes. Definitely not ideal. You could roll an ankle more easily. But it’s firm enough.”

Grimalkin glanced at the street dismissively. It seemed like the Magus of Muscles had an opinion about everything. Erin smiled. On her left, the Dullahan lowered his head and peered at her and Grimalkin, looking aggrieved.

“Why are we talking about streets?”

“Don’t worry about it, Maughin. You wanna talk about clouds instead? Or Liscor’s election?”

“I’m still trying to figure out what happened.”

The Dullahan [Blacksmith]’s voice was plaintive. He twisted his head from side to side, looking at the Gnolls and Drakes staring at him. And, oh, they were staring. Maughin put his head back on his shoulders and looked down at Erin and Grimalkin.

“One second I was at my forge. The next—I’m here. And I met an Antinium. An actual…it makes sense when I think about it, but it’s so abrupt.”

“You have to adapt. I’ve had this kind of experience—only in battle, not walking down the street. The suddenness of change. One second, you’re marching with your friends, the next, someone’s cast an [Earthquake] spell, and you’re clinging for dear life while a rock splits open your friend’s skull. Adaptability. I try to teach that too to my apprentices.”

Grimalkin nodded to himself. He eyed the streets full of people. Some of the Gnolls were sniffing as they passed. Erin smiled. Could they smell Pallass? She checked behind her and noticed the small crowd staring at their backs. She patted Maughin on the lower back.

“It’s alright. Sorry for dragging you through like that and surprising you with Numbtongue and Ksmvr. I forgot how weird they are to most people. They’re here every day.”

“Goblins and Antinium. I can’t fathom it. Actually, the Goblin I can understand. I did hear about the Goblin’s Lament Company. It was formed—and then declared invalid—before I ever came to Izril. But Antinium?”

“Ksmvr’s just like anyone else. Okay, he’s sort of different, but you shook his hand. He’s nice. They’re not all enemies, right, Grimalkin?”

The [Sinew Magus] shook his head.

“I’m withholding judgment.”

Erin shrugged.

“Well, as long as you don’t punch anyone’s head off. And what’s wrong with walking down the street in Liscor? They have elections. Pallass has elections. Ours are going on right now, actually.”

Maughin nodded. He’d heard Lism shouting and some of the arguments on display. He adjusted his head, raising it to peek over a crowd of bodies ahead of him. A Drake saw that and fainted. Maughin put his head on his shoulders, looking embarrassed.

“It’s still surreal. One second we were in Pallass. The next? Here. This is grand magic. Beyond me. The idea that a door like this always existed in Pallass…why has no one used it?”

Erin smiled to herself. She led the two down the next street, hearing the shouting growing louder, and the press of bodies grew more difficult to push through. But Maughin and Grimalkin generated the bubble of space big, imposing fellows got.

“Probably because Liscor’s a nowhere border city, right? You could have always come through, right? You just didn’t.”

“I never had a reason to.”

“Nor I.”

Grimalkin and Maughin exchanged a thoughtful glance. Erin’s smile widened, and she threw an arm around both. Well, Grimalkin’s lower chest and Maughin’s armored buttock.

“And now you’re here! It’s great! And here we are! Market Street, or Arguing Street, really. The two candidates for Liscor’s election are shouting down here. I think this is where we’ll find Selys and that Gnoll I want you to meet, Maughin. And maybe Relc if there’s a lot of fighting.”

She pointed through a wall of bodies. Maughin frowned.

“Will we make it through? I see two people on platforms, but there must be several hundred—”

“Don’t worry! Just follow me!”

Erin waved at Maughin. He reluctantly stepped after her. The back of the crowd, who had been watching Lism and Krshia argue, noticed the sudden shadow. They turned back. They could easily miss Erin, maybe even Grimalkin. But Maughin was head-and-shoulders taller than the tallest Gnoll. Erin heard a few screams and some shouts.

“What is that?”

“A Human? A half-Giant?”

“A Dullahan? Here?”

“Hey! It’s that Human! You know what that means—”

Erin ignored all of it, especially that last comment. She waved her hands, shouting cheerfully, and she channeled her best Robin Williams.

“Make way! Make way! We’re just having a walk! Excuse me! Don’t mind us!”

Maughin waved a hand, gently edging forwards. And as more Drakes and Gnolls turned their heads, hearing Erin shouting, they stared.

“Grimalkin, this way! Watch the muscles, ladies! He’s got a ten-pack. Muscle Mage, don’t you know? Excuse me! Some room for Maughin! He’s a [Blacksmith]! [Armorer]! It’s close! Don’t stare!”

For some reason, people weren’t listening to Erin’s pleas for anonymity. On the other hand, they were making good progress. The crowd parted, and the electric attention on Lism and Krshia began to fade. Accordingly, more people began to notice and turn. Erin and her two friends were halfway towards the two debaters on their platforms when they noticed. Lism turned his head, breaking off as he felt the eyes on him turning elsewhere.

“And as I was saying the—the Antinium can’t be—what is that?”

His voice, and the pointing claw, pushed all the attention onto Maughin. The [Smith] flushed. Uncomfortably, he adjusted his head. Lism stared. And then the young woman’s voice rose. Erin’s [Loud Voice] Skill made her words echo across the crowd and adjoining streets.

“Hey! Rude! What’s with the pointing? Excuse me, yes, excuse me, we’re just passing through! Keep moving! You can get back to debating after we’re gone!”

“Erin.”

Krshia breathed the word. And there she appeared. Laughing, waving her hands, creating a path in people as easily as a [Hydromancer] shifting the waters of a lake.

“Make way for Maughin, fabulous he! Dullahan [Blacksmith], best in Pallass! He’s got a dozen apprentices! And Grimalkin, the famous muscle mage! Don’t worry, we’re just having a stroll! Nobody stare!”

She danced forwards.

“Don’t mind us. Haven’t you seen a Dullahan before? And a really muscly [Mage]?”

Erin laughed. Lism turned his head to stare behind him. And Olesm, standing in the street behind his uncle’s platform, went pale. He signaled desperately, but Lism’s mouth was faster. He turned.

“Clearly some ploy, by Krshia and that Human, folks. Don’t mind him. What am I saying? Give him some room. Dullahans from Pallass? Ah yes. Well, the Dullahans. Traditional allies of the Drakes. Well, of course, we’re pleased to have you in our city, sir!”

He smiled and waved at Maughin. The Dullahan, already uncomfortable, raised his head and turned it to stare at Lism. The Drake turned pale. The [Armorer] shook his head, perplexed.

“Traditional allies? I’m sorry…sir. But our species have not historically been allies. We were great enemies during the time of Dragons.”

He frowned deeply. A murmur ran through the crowd at that. Erin sighed, but her eyes sparkled. And on her platform, Krshia bared her teeth. She called over at Lism, who’d gone red with embarrassment.

“Historical enemies, you say? But Dullahans are a welcome part of Pallass now. It makes you think—”

“Hush!”

To everyone’s surprise, it was Erin who interrupted Krshia. She frowned up at the Gnoll and made a zipping motion with her mouth. Krshia stared at her. But Erin was pushing forwards again.

“Excuse me. Is Selys here? I’m looking for Selys! My friend?”

“Here! I’m here, Erin!”

A claw rose over the crowd, and Selys eagerly pushed through the crowd. Lism spluttered from his platform, but Olesm had gotten to him and anxiously shushed his uncle to silence. Erin beamed at Selys as the crowd stopped, witness to her meeting with Selys. She gestured at Grimalkin and Maughin.

“Selys! Great to see you. I wanted to introduce you to two of my friends from Pallass. Remember how I told you about them? Grimalkin, this is Selys. She’s, uh, Zel’s niece. My best friend and a [Receptionist] at the Adventurer’s Guild. Selys, this is Grimalkin. And Master Maughin!”

She pointed up. Bemused, Selys offered a hand. Maughin shook it, looking dazedly around at the staring faces. Selys stared at his giant hand. And then Grimalkin seized her claws and gave them a bone-crushing shake.

“Miss Shivertail, I met your uncle a handful of times. But there was a [General] I could respect. He understood something about the physical form. He would have made a wonderful [Mage], but I’m afraid he never took to it. Still, I’ve never met someone with manual dexterity like that. And his claws! Those were on par with a national treasure alone!”

“Oh. Oh? You knew Uncle Zel?”

“I did indeed. A truly impressive leader. May I ask if you take after him?”

Maughin jumped.

“Selys Shivertail? The owner of the Heartflame Breastplate?”

He bent down again, eyes wide. Selys looked up at him.

“Well—yes, I have it. But—”

“He just wants to see it, Selys. Nothing big. I promised he could look. That’s fine, right?”

“Of course. I mean, the City Watch has it in the vaults when no one’s wearing it. I leased it to Keldrass, but he doesn’t keep it when he’s not in the dungeon. Uh—”

“We may be historical enemies with Dullahans, but cooperation between all species is essential! And Pallass’ citizens coming to Liscor proves that ties between our cities are more important than ever! Remember, this is about the Antinium, people!”

Lism bellowed over their heads. Erin shook her fist at him.

“Shut up! This is a private meeting! Stop eavesdropping, jerk!”

“Erin!”

Selys couldn’t bear it any further. She grabbed Erin as Lism spluttered. She could feel Olesm’s eyes on her, but she had no idea what was happening either. She whispered at Erin as the young woman obligingly bent an ear to listen.

“What are you doing? Drassi didn’t tell me what the plan was! What should Krshia say? Are we having the Dullahan speak? What is it?”

Erin looked blankly at Selys. Then she frowned.

“Plan? What, you think I brought Maughin and Grimalkin about the elections? That’s not why I brought them. Maughin wants to see your Heartflame Breastplate. Grimalkin wants to meet Relc. Oh! And we need to meet Raekea. Where is she?”

Selys gaped.

“Not on this street. She’s speaking in Dragondance Plaza, that way. But Erin—”

“Not on this street? Aw, man. Well, we’ll go see her. Can we see the armor? You can bring it by the inn. Please? Maughin will flip if he sees it. Not literally, I hope.”

Erin glanced over her shoulder, her eyes twinkling. That stopped Selys from shaking her friend. She stood back, watching as Erin turned to address Grimalkin and Maughin. She was ready for Erin to make a speech, to somehow flip this on Lism. But all Erin did was shrug.

“Sorry! Wrong street! Raekea’s not here. Selys is going to get the armor, Maughin. Let’s go visit Raekea, shall we? Hey, Selys, do you know where Relc is?”

“N-no.”

Erin nodded. She cheerfully shouted, addressing Selys, Maughin, Grimalkin, and the crowd as a whole.

“We’ll stop by the Watch House, then. Follow me!”

And with that, Erin turned and began walking back down the street. It was so abrupt that everyone stared. Maughin turned, his face one permanent frown; Grimalkin walked after Erin, grinning and clearly enjoyed himself—Krshia stared at Erin’s back.

“You’re leaving? But Erin—”

The young woman turned back. She blinked back at Krshia. The Gnoll waved her arms wildly, much like Mrsha using sign language. Erin shrugged. And her expression was blank.

“Sorry. I’m just showing my friends around. You can get back to shouting, you guys! Maughin, Grimalkin, this way! Let’s go find Raekea! And Relc! Make way!”

And she left. Maughin trailed after Erin, turning his head to look around. And the wide-eyed crowd returned his gaze. They watched as Erin, the legendary, crazy Human of Liscor, left. Accompanied by a giant Dullahan [Blacksmith] and a…[Mage] who would have given Relc’s muscles a run for their money.

“Well. Well—that’s just—clearly a sign of—good to see support from Pallass.”

Lism’s voice trailed off weakly. A few heads turned to look at him. The Drake [Shopkeeper] cleared his throat.

“So. As I was saying…Krshia Silverfang, your refusal to look at the facts is just disgraceful! Even traitorous! I—hold on, where are you going?”

Lism’s head turned. The crowd was moving. Like a flock of fish—or sheep—or really interested dogs following a bone, they were suddenly trailing after Erin.

“Hold on! We’re not done debating!”

Lism called after the crowd. Krshia uncertainly looked at Erin’s back. But the crowd barely glanced back. Someone shouted up at Lism.

“I know, but I really want to know what she’s going to do with those two. We’ll be back!”

“Hold on! This is for the future of Liscor!”

The Drake howled, but the crowd didn’t listen. And that was the point. Suddenly, the street was nearly empty. Behind Lism, Olesm uttered a curse. And Selys felt a delighted smile cross her mouth. She looked up at Krshia. The Gnoll climbed down the platform. Elirr looked at both of them. Selys glanced at Olesm, who was tearing at his neck spines. Then she leaned forwards.

“I’ll get my armor. Elirr, you help me bring it to the inn. Krshia, better get there too.”

The Gnoll grinned. And as Selys turned her head, she could still hear Erin in the distance.

“Nothing to see here! Move along! Really. Hey, why’s everyone following us?”



——



Raekea the [Armorer] looked up from her platform and stared. She had been shouting, arguing against one of Lism’s candidates for City Council. And frankly, she had been miserable doing it. She was no [Orator], [Diplomat], or anything close to a speaker. Metal didn’t argue back, and Raekea generally didn’t have a crowd watching her sweat. So it was a relief to be interrupted.

But what an interruption. The young woman smiled up at her. And the Dullahan was only a bit shorter than Raekea on her speaking platform. Erin Solstice bowed, a delighted smile on her face.

“Maughin, may I present Raekea, the best [Armorer] in Liscor? This is Maughin, Raekea. He’s a blacksmith too. An [Armorer], to be precise. Just like you. The best in all of Pallass.”

“Miss Raekea? I am Maughin. I am gratified to make your acquaintance at last.”

A huge hand rose. Raekea grasped it with her own tough paw.

“P-pleased. Master Maughin?”

“Among smiths, we are equals, are we not?”

The Dullahan inclined his head. Raekea nearly inhaled her tongue. Maughin? The same Dullahan who stamped his insignia on the finest Pallassian arms? In front of her? She looked at Erin. The young woman beamed.

“I wanted to introduce you to Maughin. So he can see what he’s up against in Liscor’s forges. And maybe you could talk to him about selling your stuff to Celum and Humans. You know?”

“I—I’d be honored. But my forge is humble. And I’m sure I haven’t the levels to compare to Master Maughin. Not by half. I can’t…this is very sudden, yes?”

Raekea felt faint. Lightheaded at the sudden, strange turn of events. She saw a look of sympathy cross Maughin’s face. He turned to Erin.

“We are imposing.”

“Nonsense! Okay, we are. But I think you two should chat! Can’t we all take a break from this election thing and have some fun just talking about how hard it is to hit stuff with hammers? I’m down for that.”

Erin protested, ignoring the huge crowd watching her every move. And Raekea saw it. That sparkle in Erin’s eyes. Slowly, she nodded, slipping down from her platform. She bowed again to Maughin.

“I would be delighted. And of course. The election can wait.”

“So there is an election in Liscor. It parallels our own. May I ask who’s running against each other?”

“Oh, that’s a bunch of Drakes. Lism, that shouty guy who thought you were traditional allies? He wants to build Liscor without using the Antinium’s help. Raekea’s with Krshia. They want Gnolls on the Council.”

Maughin nodded slowly. He’d absorbed some of the nuance of the politics. His brows drew together as he glanced around. He wasn’t exactly shouting, but the crowd wasn’t exactly talking over him either.

“Ah. Gnolls have not been traditionally part of Liscor’s Council?”

“No.”

“It is an issue that has come into light in Pallass as well. Dullahans occupy two seats out of hundreds. Despite the fact that we are a growing minority. Garuda have no seats. I hope the Gnolls of Liscor can claim some seats on the Council. Not that I understand the details of your election.”

Raekea cleared her throat, trying not to glance at her opponent, Alonna Swiftwing, the poised Mage’s Guildmistress, glaring at her from her podium.

“I would be pleased.”

“Great! And now we can go back to the inn. Come on, Raekea. I bet Selys has the armor by now.”

Erin cheerfully waved at her group. As if there were nothing out of the ordinary. Raekea blinked. Maughin looked resigned. The Gnoll woman saw another Drake folding his arms next to Erin. And he was…built. Raekea was married to a [Blacksmith], but she looked twice at this Drake’s body.

“Who is this?”

Erin slapped her forehead.

“Sorry. Raekea, meet Grimalkin. He’s a Muscle Mage from Pallass.”

“I keep telling you. That is not an appropriate term for my magic.”

The Drake unfolded one arm and gave Raekea’s paw a squeeze like a vice. The Gnoll shook her paw and stared at Grimalkin. Erin raised her hands.

“How am I supposed to know what you do? Muscle Mage. [Sinew Magus]. What does it mean? You store magic in your muscles. And?”

The question threw Grimalkin. He closed his eyes, began to look annoyed—and then caught himself. He cracked one eye open and glanced at Erin.

“Aha. You’re quite deceptive, Miss Erin.”

She grinned at him.

“And your brain is as muscly as your…legs. But I’m serious. Care to show us?”

The Drake thought it over.

“Well, since you’ve set the stage…I could always use new apprentices. And publicity. Why not? But let’s get one thing straight, Miss Solstice. I’m not the ‘Muscle Mage of Pallass’.”

“Oh really? What are you?”

Grimalkin threw his arms wide. He roared, surprising Maughin, Raekea, and the citizens of Liscor clustered around.

“Pallass’ greatest [Mage]! Grimalkin, the Fist Mage! Laugh! And they do laugh in Wistram. But I have dueled Archmages. And my magic is second to none! Look. They say Archmage Amerys can fly across the oceans. But can she do this?”

The Drake knelt. And then he sprang up. He leapt over Erin and Raekea’s heads. Up, into the sky. As if gravity had no hold on him. Erin’s jaw dropped as Grimalkin nimbly landed. On a rooftop fifty feet distant. The Drake turned, and his voice roared over the plaza.

“True [Mages] are more than walking tanks of mana! True [Mages] can fight! If you run out of spells, stand and fight with your companions! Trust your body, not just your mind! Cowards hide behind their comrades! If you’re a [Mage]—fight! And this will be your reward!”

He leapt down like a falling anvil. The crowd scattered, but Grimalkin landed as lightly as a cat. Erin whistled. Grimalkin strode forwards, looking around.

“What can I lift? That wagon? No. It’ll break. A few Gnolls? Bah. No help for it. [Stone Shaping].”

He bent and pulled part of the plaza up. A cubed block of stone with two grooves near the top rose out of the ground. Grimalkin waved a hand at the awed murmurs.

“That isn’t the magic. People of Liscor! This is what a body can do. Observe! This is without a single spell cast!”

So saying, he gripped the chunk of stone by the two handholds and, with a grunt, hefted it up to chest-level. This time Erin gulped. If that stone was solid all the way though, it had to weigh hundreds of pounds. Grimalkin’s voice shook only slightly.

“Conditioning. Weight. Balance—and now—lift!”

He shifted his grip, and then the block rotated. The roar from the crowd was awed as the block swung overhead in a motion like a weightlifter doing a clean and press. The boulder rose into the air as Grimalkin roared. Erin watched as he lifted up over his head. The Drake roared, and his arms and voice shook.

“With muscle alone! And now, with magic!”

His arms shook. He closed his eyes, and Erin feared that any moment the block would drop on him. Then Grimalkin’s eyes opened, and he bellowed.

“[Lion’s Strength—]”

The shaking arms stopped. Grimalkin stood straight, holding the block of stone over his head with both arms. Then he tossed it up. Planted one claw under the center of the block. And the block landed. Erin heard, felt a thump of impact. And Grimalkin stood holding it with one arm over his head. The audience gasped. Grimalkin grinned around them. Then casually, he lowered his arm. And he hurled the boulder straight up.

“Oh my—”

Erin’s shout was one of a thousand voices crying out in panic. The boulder flew up, ten, twenty feet. And it started coming down, gently at first, but then with all the weight of a meteor falling to earth. Grimalkin stood where he was as the crowd, suddenly aware of the falling stone, ran for it, screaming. He pointed up as the boulder hurled down towards the ground in front of him.

“[Water Colossus’ Grasp]!”

A roaring tide of water rushed around Erin’s legs, drenching them in a second. She yelped as the water swirled up into a gigantic hand, impossibly fast. It caught the stone cube as it fell, and the heavy weight sank into the watery arm. Grimalkin pointed, and the stone crunched down on the ground where he’d pulled it out of the earth. Liscor’s citizens turned to stare. Grimalkin leapt up nimbly and spread his arms. Then he flexed.

Every muscle on Grimalkin’s body stood out as the Drake struck a pose like one of the Grecian statues from Erin’s world. He held the pose as, with lungs of steel, he bellowed at the crowd.

“Strength! Adaptability! A [Mage] with a body like a [Soldier] has no weaknesses! Behold! I practice a magic like no other! Spellcraft and stamina! Muscle and magic! Fight on the front and cast spells with the authority of a true mage!”

He raised his arms and struck a herculean pose.

“Hm! And what do you say? Any takers?”

Grimalkin gazed around at his audience expectantly. The Drakes and Gnolls stared up at him. And then they burst into wild applause. Grimalkin sighed, then turned and waved at the crowd. He dismounted from the boulder, shaking hands and asking questions. Erin, dumbstruck, had to wait for nearly five minutes until Grimalkin won clear. To her surprise, the [Mage] was shaking his head when he approached them.

“No takers. Lots of applause, but there always is when I do this for the first time. A shame, really. But maybe I’ve set the seeds. It is an uphill battle. There’s your demonstration, Miss Erin. Shall we go?”

“Wh—but I—that was amazing!”

Erin burst out, waving her arms over her head. She pointed at the boulder and the rooftop Grimalkin had jumped to, almost too excited for words.

“How? That’s incredible! Pisces can [Flash Step], but that was like Superman! Over a building in a single bound!”

“Well, it’s only two-stories high. And [Flash Step] is a poor spell compared to physical enhancement spells. One is a set spell. The other one scales off of the body’s own prowess. I dare say only I could jump that far with a basic spell, but the principle applies to all [Mages] if they’d just get out there and do some pushups.”

Grimalkin modestly shook his head. He casually kicked the stone cube, and it melted back into the earth. He noticed Erin, Maughin, and Raekea’s stares and shrugged, slightly pleased.

“I did say I was a [Mage], didn’t I? Then again, you wouldn’t be the first to assume my spell repertoire is limited. Hardly. I just believe in not wasting magic. Shall we go back to the inn?”

He began walking. Erin trailed after him. Grimalkin massaged his arms, looking a bit pained as he went. He nodded back at Erin as she followed him, mouth still ready to catch flies.

“Whew. I didn’t expect to do my traditional demonstration today. It takes a toll, even with experience. Was that what you wanted, Miss Erin? Part of the plan?”

“Better. You earned your cake!”

“Mm. I’m glad. And quite interested to see what you’ll do next. Say. You! You there!”

Grimalkin paused. He pointed at someone in the crowd. The Drake stopped, chewing on a stick of dried meat.

“Me?”

“Yes, you. You have the makings of a real [Mage]. Give me ten years—no, half that, and I’ll turn you into a spellcaster as fine as any Wistram graduate. What do you say?”

Grimalkin eyed the other Drake’s body appreciatively. The Drake in question blushed.

“Me? I never thought about being a [Mage]. What do you think, Erin? I don’t like the robes, but I’m not bad myself, huh?”

Relc lifted one arm. Grimalkin nodded. Erin laughed.

“Relc! Grimalkin, this is the Gecko of Liscor himself!”

“Aw, Erin—you know I hate that name!”

The [Sergeant] looked disgruntled. Grimalkin’s eyes went up and down Relc.

“This is the Gecko? I thought he’d be far scrawnier. No wonder you made it through so many battles. Put it here. Grimalkin. [Sinew Magus]—and the Muscle Mage of Pallass, apparently. You, my friend, are an inspiration.”

“I am?”

“How can you not be? Here’s a [Sergeant] mixed with a [Spearmaster] who, not with overpowering Skills or weapons, did in enemy after enemy with nothing but his muscles and speed!”

He gestured to Relc, who had turned bright red under his green scales. Grimalkin slapped Relc on the shoulder and roared the word Erin knew was coming.

“Testicles! If Pallass’ army had half the testicles you do, we wouldn’t have lost half the wars with the other Walled Cities! Can I get you to give a small demonstration of your abilities to my apprentices, sir? They could use the motivation.”

He looked expectantly at Relc. The [Guardsman] swallowed his bite of meat. He looked at Erin. She grinned at him. Relc leaned over.

“I really like this guy. Hey, I heard you were doing something weird. Looks like it. Who’s the War Walker?”

He nodded at Maughin. The Dullahan looked affronted and pleased. Erin laughed as she introduced him.

“Maughin, this is Relc! Don’t mind him. We’re all going to the inn, Relc. Want to come along? I’ve got lots of cake and ice cream.”

“Do I?”

The Drake looked delighted. His tail wagged as he fell into step with Maughin and Raekea. Erin turned to the crowd.

“Sorry for disrupting you, folks! We’ll be on our way! Back to The Wandering Inn! Feel free to listen to that Drake lady! She’s a [Mage] too! Grimalkin’s going to relax, though. Hey, we’ve got blue fruit juice too! Stop by if you want some! Cheap!”

Grimalkin snorted, amused. Relc raised his brows, and even Maughin had caught on by this point. He glanced down at Erin and shook his head. But he followed Erin, lowering his head to speak with Raekea, who was still in the middle of the processing stage. Grimalkin strolled ahead, speaking to Erin and Relc.

“It is demoralizing, sometimes, seeing how few people will step up to try my kind of magic. I feel like more of a [Performer] than [Mage] with that little act.”

“Hey, I’d pay money for it. Relc, by the way. Ooh! You’ve got a good handshake.”

The two Drakes grinned at each other. Erin pushed in between them, glancing up at Relc and Grimalkin.

“Why do you do it, then?”

“It draws a crowd. And it’s proof of my abilities. Can you name another [Mage] who could lift a boulder over his or her head? It’s fewer than you think. Telekinesis is twice as hard as lifting it is. And that’s hard enough. Ergh. I only wish there was an easier way of doing that bit. That boulder’s not even that large—barely wider than I am. And it’s hundreds of pounds. But can you convey that to the skeptics?”

Grimalkin grimaced. Relc nodded appreciatively. Erin hesitated.

“Well, why not use weights? Or is that not cool enough?”

“Weights?”

Relc and Grimalkin glanced back at her. Erin nodded.

“Yeah. Weights on a bar. Like—bench pressing. You know?”

They did not. Grimalkin raised his brows, and Relc looked excited.

“Oh boy. This is some new crazy thing you’ve come up, right?”

“What, weights? You totally have them. Right? Weights? On a bar? Weight rooms?”

Erin laughed, looking from face to face. Then she stopped, because both Drakes were blank. She inhaled.

“You don’t know. Oh, wow. Well, what about this? Instead of lifting a rock or something, you get this metal bar. And you put two weights on each side, see? So they’re like—they’ll be round, so the weight’s perfectly distributed. And that way, you can lift it and work out. And if you want to add more, you just add more weight. Or take it off.”

“Weights on a bar. Of course! And did you say bench pressing?”

“Yup. You lie on your back and hold the bar and push it up. You can do like, I dunno, three hundred pounds of weight?”

“I bet I could do four hundred. Hey, do you have one of those bars, Erin? That sounds like a lot of fun.”

“Nope. And if you two exercise-dudes don’t know them, they might not exist, er…here. But you know what? They’re really easy to make. It’s just metal. Iron for the weights, probably. Or lead. And I happen to know two [Smiths] who have time on their hands.”

Erin, Relc, and Grimalkin turned. Maughin and Raekea broke off from their conversation to look up. The Dullahan frowned at Erin.

“What? Forging? I could work in Master Raekea’s forge. Or my own. But it seems inconvenient. And unless I’m wrong, isn’t this crowd part of your plan? A forge is hardly a space for an audience.”

“Especially mine.”

Raekea put in, looking at Erin. The young woman just smiled. Her eyes lit up even further.

“I can fix that. With a little bit of help. Relc, Grimalkin, would you mind visiting Pallass for a second? I need you to help lift something.”

The two Drakes exchanged a glance. Relc grinned and flexed one arm. Grimalkin laughed.

“I suppose I’ve got more time. What did you have in mind?”



——



“You can’t do this! Do you hear me? You can’t do this! Put it down!”

“Watch me! And watch your heads! Coming through! Whoo! This is like a roller coaster ride or something! Hey Relc, lift your end higher!”

Heads in Pallass turned. On the grand stairway, the people of Pallass looked up and saw a door coming at them. It was a magic door, true, held up by two extremely burly Drakes. But it was still a door. An open door. And in that doorway stood a Human, in a room, an inn in fact, staring out of the doorway.

You had to look twice after a scene like that. Especially because Erin Solstice wasn’t alone. A crowd of other onlookers were staring out of the door, with as much fascination as Pallass’ citizens were staring into it. Relc called out as he hefted his end of the door higher over his head.

“Excuse me! City Watch coming through! Excuse me! Hey. Is that a Garuda? I thought that Bevussa chick was the only one in Pallass.”

“The Garuda population has been increasing over the last few years. There are a few hundred. Not many, but they’ve overtaken the Human population in the city.”

“No kidding? Wow.”

“You can’t do this! Put that down now! This is an order!”

“Onwards! Ignore Kel, guys. He’s just grumpy.”

Erin laughed as the doorway tilted to look back at Guardsman Kel, who was pursuing Grimalkin and Relc. She saw the furious Drake grabbing for the door, and then a clawed hand blocking him. Relc’s voice came through the door as Erin watched.

“Hey buddy, relax. Erin’s got authority to bring this door wherever. Trust me. I’m a Senior Guardsman. I outrank you or something.”

“You’re a Liscorian [Guardsman]!”

“Yeah. But I’m a Senior Liscorian Guardsman. Hey, Erin! Where to?”

They’d reached the ninth floor. Erin pointed, the captain of her mobile door-ship.

“There! Straight to the forges! Make sure we get a good position so everyone can see!”

She stepped back so the crowd behind her could see. Gnolls and Drakes, all attracted from Liscor, crowded around the door. They gasped as the rows of forges and [Smiths] at work all came into view.

“The forges of Pallass. Dead gods.”

“Is that really what they look like? That city—this is Pallass?”

Erin looked around proudly. The Drakes and Gnolls fighting for a view were awed. She wondered how many of them had seen Pallass. And if they had—how long ago had it been? She nodded.

“That’s right! This is Pallass! And those forges belong to the best [Smiths]. And one of them is right there. Maughin! We’re here!”

Erin waved excitedly to someone in the door. The view tilted, and someone else came into view. The crowd pushed back, and Erin waved excitedly.

“Maughin! It’s me! And I brought the door.”

“You brought—”

A huge Dullahan appeared in front of the door. The crowd oohed as Maughin, sweaty, his armor slightly sooty, stepped into view. And next to him was a smaller Gnoll, covered in an apron, holding a hammer. Raekea the [Armorer] stared back through the door at a sea of faces. She looked to one side as Relc, dusting his claws, stepped into view. He grinned at Erin.

“Made it! And there’s an entire crowd of people following us!”

“Oh really? I wonder why.”

Erin innocently blinked at Relc. She heard a rugged laugh from Grimalkin. The [Mage] had good-naturedly agreed to her request and helped her send Raekea and Maughin through first. Now he cracked his neck and glanced through the door.

“Quite a crowd.”

“Only a hundred people or so. Lyonette won’t let more in just yet. They’re all looking through the windows outside. Hey! Selys is here too.”

Erin reached into the crowd and pulled out her friend. Selys waved at Maughin and Raekea. The Gnoll looked around. She ran a paw through her fur.

“I can’t believe I’m here. I just walked through the door and—”

She glanced up at Maughin. The Dullahan laid a hand on her shoulder gravely.

“You do get used to it.”

Raekea looked awed in the face of Maughin’s forge, the rows of roaring furnaces. She gestured around Maughin’s forge, stepping back as the crowd in Liscor jostled for view. Erin saw some people from Pallass peeking into frame and shouts from Kel, warning them to keep back from the forge. Raekea ignored them both. She was gesturing at Maughin’s personal studio.

“My forge has half of your capacity at best. I’d heard that Pallass manufactured a good portion of Izril’s steel. But to see it in action—”

“I’m sure Liscor is well-served by your work as well, Master Raekea.”

The Dullahan [Armorer] smiled warmly at Raekea. A blush appeared on the Gnoll’s cheeks, and she shook her head. She looked around, and both Erin and Selys saw her catch her breath. Selys stared through the door silently as well. Erin nudged her.

“Well, what do you think? I told you Pallass is awesome! But you never wanted to go.”

“It is amazing, Erin. It’s—”

Selys struggled for words. She had watched the door pass near the edge of the eighth floor, stared down into the heart of Pallass. And she had seen the smooth streets, the beautiful sky, the magical lifts in the distance. She couldn’t put it into words.

“It’s—”

There it was again. A moment of—hesitation from Liscor’s side of the door. Just like what was written on Raekea’s face. Selys spotted it because she herself felt it in her chest. A sinking sensation. If she had to give it a name, she’d call it a sense of inferiority. She’d known, of course, that Pallass was impressive. But it was another thing to see it in person.

A Walled City. A treasure of the Drakes. Real, in front of your eyes. You looked at that, and you compared it to the city you knew all your life. The city you thought was so grand and wonderful. And you found it was—

The silence among Liscor’s crowd reflected Selys’ feelings. Erin seemed to notice, because she nudged Selys, smiling gently. She stepped towards the door and peered at something Maughin was lifting up, checking with one practiced eye. And like that, the smiths of Pallass turned to her and the [Innkeeper] of Liscor spoke and two cities danced on her words.

“Hey! Are those weights done? Amazing! How long did that take you? It looks exactly like what I said! Hey, Grimalkin, get over here!”

She pointed at the bar that Maughin was experimentally sliding an iron weight onto. The round, ten-pound weight was exactly like the ones from Erin’s world, albeit smoother, without any markings on it. The Dullahan turned back to Erin, shrugging.

“It was an easy thing to forge. You asked for a circle with a hole in the center and a long rod. The only trick is enough steel to forge-weld together. And my apprentices and I can do that in no time.”

“I wouldn’t even have enough crucible steel to make a bar this long.”

Raekea eyed the long weight bar in Maughin’s hand, solid and metallic. The Dullahan ducked his head slightly, and Erin noticed his eyes on Raekea.

“Ah. This is the product of Pallass’ forges. We do have the advantage of massive furnaces. The heat and capacity, especially with enchanted forges, is unparalleled. I could give you a tour later if you would like. It would be my pleasure.”

“I would love to see them. It is an honor, Master Maughin, truly.”

“The pleasure is mine, Raekea. If I may use your name?”

The Dullahan glanced sideways at the Gnoll. Erin bit her lip. Uh oh. She leaned through the doorway. When Raekea turned to look at one of the smaller forges, she whispered up at him.

“Psst. Maughin. Raekea’s married.”

Maughin’s face fell. Erin patted him on the leg.

“Sorry. I should have said that earlier. Grimalkin! How’s the bar?”

“Let me see. I’ve got these two weights on. And if the bar’s, what, fifty pounds? This is sixty, seventy. And how do I do it?”

“Use a bench! Lie on your back, feet on the ground, press up—”

Erin watched as Grimalkin found a pair of stools and dragged them over. He pressed his back flat against the first stool and put his butt on the second. Lying flat in the air, he took the weight bar as Relc handed it to him. Grimalkin lowered it to his chest, pressed up experimentally, and grunted.

“Light.”

“Well, let’s get more weights and put them on!”

Relc energetically loaded one side of Grimalkin’s bar with four more of the round weights. Erin winced.

“Don’t do it like that! It’s unbalanced! And it’s slipping off, look!”

“Oops. How do you stop that?”

“You need a cap. Something to stop them from sliding too far in one direction. Shouldn’t be hard.”

That came from Bealt. The [Farrier] watched with fascination as Grimalkin tried to do a bench press with five times as much weight on one end. He shook his head.

“Let me go to my forge and knock one out. It’ll just be a tight little ring—”

“I can do it! My forge is hot, and I’ve got some iron!”

One of the other [Smiths] called out. The Drake set a bar stock into a forge fire. Half the [Smiths] on the ninth floor were gathered around the door and Grimalkin, and more were drifting over each second. Erin laughed in delight as Bealt grabbed a horseshoe stock from his forge and began folding a second cap into place.

“Awesome! You know, it also has a stand. Two little holders that hold the bar. That way, if it’s too heavy, you can have someone lift it into place and hold it.”

“I get it. And we challenge ourselves. This—this will definitely exercise my chest muscles. But I wonder, can I lift it other ways? Swordsmen swing weighted, lead-filled blades around. Maybe I could do the same?”

Grimalkin swung the weights bar carelessly with one hand. Erin reflexively ducked with half the [Smiths] nearby. She shouted through the doorway.

“Don’t do that! Just do a, uh, deadlift! Or a squat? Here, I’ll show you! Take those weights off!”

She hopped through the door. Instantly, it went dark. A roar of protest went up from both Liscor and Pallass’ side. Grimalkin strode over to the door and laid a claw on it.

“Hup!”

He barked, and the door flickered to life. The [Mage] grimaced and flexed one wrist.

“Mana-hungry, isn’t it?”

“I’m trying to fix that. Anyways. Here. Give me that. Wow. This is heavy.”

“It’s only fifty pounds. Weak. Weak!”

Relc stopped when Erin turned to glare at him. He and Grimalkin watched as Erin demonstrated a squat as best she knew how. Then a lunge, deadlift, and shoulder press. None of this was actually stuff Erin had done herself; until she’d gotten [Lesser Strength], she doubted she would have been able to lift the weight bar nearly as smoothly as she was doing now. But the exercises impressed her audience to no end. Maughin stopped dejectedly showing Raekea around his furnace to watch.

“That’s an interesting routine. So these weights and this bar. They’re for people trying to exercise?”

“Yup. Build muscle and all that. I don’t know how popular it is—lots of people did it back at home. I never saw the point.”

“Never saw the point? This has to be far more efficient than most of the exercises we do. Sparring and practicing strikes is good for muscle, but this? This is perfect.”

Grimalkin looked like he was in love. He tried a squat, and then a lunge. Erin noticed his form was already perfect. Relc’s, when he tried it, was abysmal. The Drake laughed and swung the weight bar casually like a spear.

“This is so great. Hey! Can you guys make like a fifty-pound weight? Eight of them? I bet you I can lift four hundred pounds. And I bet Klb can’t.”

“Let me try. Think this will sell?”

One of the Drake [Blacksmiths] looked interested. So did the rest of Pallass’ smiths. They could smell business. Relc nodded.

“I’ll use it. Hey, how much does one of these cost?”

“A lot. We used good steel for the bar. Maybe we can get away with iron, but that much raw metal is going to cost, especially if we don’t want it to break.”

Maughin frowned, looking at his fellows. They nodded, and one of them got out a bit of parchment to scribble on. Relc sighed.

“Damn. Really?”

“And unless it has a purpose—what’s the point?”

“Well, there are dumbells too. Smaller weights for the hands? You have stuff like that?”

Erin looked at the Drakes and Gnolls. They shook their heads, frowning. Bealt tapped one foot on the ground.

“I see the point that it builds muscle. But what’s the use for, say, a [Smith]? You’ll get all you need from swinging a hammer. Not much use for us, unless you do it for fun. Which I’ll grant you, it does look like a bit. Competitions and whatnot. But outside of that?”

He looked at Erin. She shrugged helplessly. Grimalkin made a disgusted sound.

“You don’t see the point? I do. And I guarantee you, when I recommend this to the Assembly of Crafts and Pallass’ [Generals], we will have at least a hundred orders of these for you within the week!”

Astonished, the crowd looked his way. Grimalkin looked around, drawing himself up. His robes strained to keep up with his frame.

“You don’t see the point? Dead gods! This is perfect for [Soldiers] and adventurers! Smaller weights, like these barbell things that Miss Solstice mentioned. Large ones. Benches like this to exercise—it’s the perfect way to train without sparring or hurting yourself. Someone can use one of these casually in the Adventurer’s Guild and work out a specific set of muscles! You want more arm muscle? You lift it like this. You want chest muscle? You do those bench presses. Erin! Is there a weight for your abdomen? Because I will pay you gold for a set of instructions on this.”

He turned to Erin. The [Smiths] excitedly murmured, and several began drafting variants of the weight bar on their sheaves of parchment. Relc grunted as he piled every available weight onto the bar and lifted it up.

“Yeah. Where has this been all my life? Lift! Hah! Lift!”

He began doing shoulder presses. Erin watched, laughing.

“Don’t hurt yourself! Seriously. You can hurt yourself bad doing that the wrong way, Grimalkin.”

“Better than [Soldiers] training with each other and putting out each other’s eyes or breaking bones.”

Grimalkin watched approvingly as Relc effortlessly completed a set and then handed it to Bealt. The Gnoll staggered and nearly fell under the weight. Erin grinned. This was not part of the plan. Right until it had been. But she was already improvising. And speaking of which—a flicker from the kitchen made her turn and look back at her inn. Lyonette waved at Erin, and Erin nodded. The [Princess] came forwards with a tray. Erin took it and, beaming, turned to the [Smiths].

“Hey!”

They looked up from their deliberations. Erin walked back into the inn, lifted the tray, and the bowl of white stuff that was already melting from the heat of the distant forges. She looked around.

“You look really sweaty. All of you. Want a towel? Some water? How about some ice cream?”

Relc could have teleported to the door, he was that fast. The smiths looked blank. Maughin walked over, mopping sweat from his brow.

“Refreshments would be welcome. But what is that? Ice? Cream?”

“Ice cream. It’s a delicacy up north, I guess. I dunno. I just make it. Hey, Lyonette! Can we get eleven—no, thirty-two bowls? And more vanilla ice cream! Vanilla’s special the first time you have it. Nevermore after that.”

She lifted up the bowl and took the first bowl she was handed. Relc reached for it through the door—Erin slapped his claw down.

“Here, Maughin. Try it!”

The Dullahan reached through the door. Erin wasn’t sure if that was taxing the door, but he took the bowl without it fizzling out and dipped his spoon into the cold bowl. His eyes widened as he lifted it up and sniffed it.

“I do know this. The pudding-gelatin that comes from Terandria. Lasica was attempting to obtain some for the bar, but she couldn’t. And you have it. Here?”

He looked at Erin. She smiled innocently.

“I happen to know how to make it. And if Tails and Scales wants some, I’m happy to give them the recipe.”

At the name of Pallass’ famous bar, more smiths abandoned the weight bar and came over. As did some other Drakes and Gnolls in the crowd who’d been watching. Erin passed bowls of ice cream through the door and watched them disappear in moments. Bealt, his fur matted with sweat, took one bite of ice cream, and his eyes went round.

“Sweet! Oh, this is delicious! What is it?”

“Milk. Cream. And sugar. And stuff! It’s frozen, so watch out you don’t get brain freeze if you eat it fast. Grimalkin, a bowl?”

The [Mage] took one and eyed the ice cream dubiously. He bit into it, and his expression changed to one of disgust.

“Is this pure sugar?”

“…Maybe?”

“I can’t. It’s not for me. I had enough sugar trying nali-sticks from Baleros, thanks.”

The Muscle [Mage] shuddered and shook his head. Relc licked his lips; his bowl of ice cream was already licked clean.

“Grimalkin, pal, if you don’t want it, I’ll take it off your claws.”

“I miss nali-sticks.”

Maughin quietly ate from his bowl. He closed his eyes, savoring the taste. Behind him, the [Smiths] were exclaiming over the ice cream, and their apprentices, lured by the free food, started forming a line. Erin poked her head through the door and saw a crowd standing to the left. Someone called out.

“What’re you eating, Bealt?”

“Something delicious! Iced cream!”

The Gnoll shouted back, waving his empty bowl. He handed it back to Erin, his tail wagging hopefully.

“Are there seconds by any chance? I’ll pay for more.”

Erin looked back through the door. Lyonette was being mobbed as she tried to get more ice cream to Erin. Liscor’s residents knew ice cream as well.

“I’ll try and get you some. But I think it’s too hot here; we’re melting my stock! Hey Relc, Grimalkin! Can you drag the door back to the eighth floor?”

“You’re leaving?”

Maughin looked disappointed. So did the rest of the [Smiths]. They crowded around the door, waving diagrams and asking questions. Erin laughed and raised her hands.

“I don’t want to disrupt the smiths, so why don’t we drag it back to its spot? And anyone who wants to follow us…hey Maughin, have you ever tried cake?”

“Cake?”

Maughin frowned as Relc and Grimalkin bent for the door. They decided to pull instead of carry it. The Dullahan looked down at Erin and realized she was moving backwards. The door was slowly disappearing. Maughin walked after it, bowl in hand. He stared at Erin as she stood in the retreating doorway, blinking at her.

“I’ve had cakes before. But is yours somehow different?”

“Yup! I’ve got a secret recipe. Well, I have baking soda. So my cakes are very fluffy. And sugary! Sorry, Grimalkin. And frosted. Vanilla again—I can’t find chocolate. But I made a great lime frosting the other day.”

“Frosting? Er…this ice cream is very good. Very, very good. Sweet. But it is freezing my teeth.”

Maughin trotted after Erin. And behind him, Bealt perked up his ears and promptly abandoned his forge. Erin watched a dozen other [Smiths] follow suit. Raekea was still investigating the forges. Erin hoped she’d find her way back. She turned to Ishkr, who’d popped up with more ice cream in a bowl.

“I can get you a drink. This is an inn. On the move! Blue fruit juice? Milk? Just water?”

“Blue fruit juice, please!”

“Drag the door first, Relc.”

“Blue fruit juice? Ah—a glass of water would be most welcome—”

Maughin nearly tripped on the first of the stairs. He called down after Erin as the door descended. She waved at him brightly.

“I’ll see you back in the usual spot! Oh, bring the bowls too! And come on through when you do. I want you to try pizza!”

“Pizza? What’s that?”

Maughin called out desperately, slowly trying to follow Erin down the stairs. The [Innkeeper] waved. The Dullahan took another step and then realized a crowd was rushing down the stairs in front of him. Pallass’ citizens followed, reaching for the bowls of ice cream Erin passed through the door, asking questions much like Maughin. The Dullahan watched as Erin’s magical door retreated, and the flood of Pallassians followed. He blinked at the dregs of ice cream in his bowl. And then he looked at the door.

“Was this all part of the plan?”

His only reply was Erin’s laughter. The Dullahan turned and looked back at his forge. At Raekea, the weight bar and someone trying to do a clean and press that Grimalkin had demonstrated. He sighed and shook his head, and despite the day, the promise of more sugar and business, and the wonders of Erin’s inn, he sagged. The Dullahan kicked at a pebble on the ground disconsolately.

“They’re always married.”





6.32


The Walled City of Salazsar was silent at dawn. Silent, and cold. Frost touched the roofs and stone walkways near the top of the city. Even in the spring, it was so; the braziers that were always tended to with great attention were mundane, not magic, for that very reason. They kept the frost from becoming treacherous sheets of black ice that might cause a fatal fall.

Perhaps it was a luxury. And indeed, the ever-burning flames that warmed Salazsar only provided their warmth to the highest floors of the city. The peaks, where, appropriately, only the richest denizens of Salazsar could afford to live. But it was hardly a small place. For Salazsar was the second-largest of the Walled Cities. Where Pallass was a fortress, and had been constructed to fend off attackers from any conceivable direction or even altitude, Salazsar was different.

The canny [Architects] who had laid plans and designs in countless years past had not trusted to the mere might of walls to protect the city. So they had trusted to something far older, stronger.

They had built Salazsar into the side of a mountain. There it sat, a mountain-fortress, like the capital of Hellios, or the few other famous cities that had chosen to use geography to their advantage. The home of the Dwarves in Terandria was one such location. But, tellingly, the Drakes of Izril were not content to make their homes subterranean. Salazsar was part of the mountain, yes, but it was built of it. As the mountain had vanished, stone by stone, Salazsar had emerged. The city was the mountain, and when the mountain died, Salazsar would finally be complete.

That was the conceit of the city. And it was all conceit. As a lonely Drake made his way from the highest towers and down across crisscrossing bridges in the sky, he reflected that each Walled City was defined by more than just its economic strength. Each city had personality. If Pallass was the City of Inventions, with its limitless capacity for change and burning desire to improve—in politics, in industry, to change and adapt—then its counterpart might well be said to be Salazsar.

For tradition held the city. Tradition—the lineage of Wall Lords and Wall Ladies that had not been rendered obsolete by democracy as in Pallass. A profession—mining, gem cutting, and the wealth and contempt, the arrogance such that even other Drakes pointed to Salazsar as a hallmark of pride. And was that truly a fault? Or had the Walled City transformed a defect into a glowing gem, a city beyond all other Drake cities to aspire to? He knew what he believed. But then, he was a son of Salazsar. The City of Gems.

And it glowed in the light. The towers shone, their stained glass and gemstone windows illuminating the city below with wondrous light from above. The city was a marvel of stonework, of craft, if not engineering like Pallass. No ugly elevators marred its walkways, and indeed, the ramps and stairwells down were sometimes inconvenient to climb. Simply travelling from the top of Salazsar to the bottom would exhaust the lesser-abled. Let alone the reverse. But each section of the city could sustain you; you hardly had to walk far to find amenities at hand or claw or paw. Assuming you were in the correct section. Because, of course, the higher you went, the richer everything was.

Statues passed the Drake by as he walked. Wall Lords captured in exquisite detail, stone busts gravely looking towards oblivion, even entire scenes carved out of stone and given color by gem or paint—or sometimes left bare, starkly reminding the viewer that the past could only be caught in mere stone for moments. And the windows danced their colors upon these pieces of art as well.

It was indeed art that shaped the highest levels of Salazsar, from tower to tower. And why not? The bottom of the city, the width of the city set against the base of the mountain, was made of ancient walls. Already, they were three hundred feet high; anything above that was impossible to strike at. Even a trebuchet would struggle to even graze the tallest of the towers. And Salazsar’s protections were such that no army had even taken the battle to those vaunted heights. Salazsar had fallen before, to treachery and even plague, but not to armies with sheer, destructive might. As the Drake peered over a railing, he supposed that nothing could threaten Salazsar’s elite by air. Not even an entire migration of Wyverns, surely. But Dragons?

Perhaps Dragons. Yet, the ancestors of Drakes had long since passed from the earth. Perhaps all, or perhaps some remained. But they were not a threat as they had been in days of yore. So the Drake walked further down, descending into the main part of the city.

Salazsar was a vertical place. Unlike Pallass, which had floors, Salazsar had towers connected by walkways. Each one was huge, as large as any castle or citadel around the base and narrowing as it rose. Fingers rising to the sky, perhaps. And the Drake descended one of these towers, noting how the elegance shifted, became less pronounced. The statues and reliefs certainly grew sparser in number.

And yet, the majesty of the city never disappeared no matter how low you went. No dingy halls, or low-cut, rough ceilings for the Walled City’s folk. Ilvriss looked up at the ceiling, a product of masterful architecture. Yes, each generation of Salazsar built upon the city, trying to outdo itself. You could capture the construction techniques across a thousand years if you went for a stroll.

It was to the tower closest to the mountain—overshadowed by the retreating rock face—that Ilvriss had journeyed today. The newest tower, being built upwards, was of a classic design. All sleek rock, smooth edges, minimalistic in the nods to, say, gargoyles or other protrusions. Ilvriss was mixed on how he felt about it. Still, it was his base of operations. And he was proud; it had been constructed in his generation. And when he died, it would be there. Standing as a memento to all those who had helped raise it.

That was the pride of this Walled City, beyond all the others. Salazsar grew. It absorbed the mountain into itself. From the stones, the city was built. From the earth, its treasures were excavated. Because Salazsar sat on a mother lode of gems. The largest, most comprehensive and varied set of veins in the earth. From its mines, you could find exports of diamonds, rubies, metals like silver, mithril, even adamantine—and rarer minerals still. That was what made Salazsar richest of the Walled Cities for thousands of years. A vein miles deep, seemingly without end.

Of course, one didn’t simply excavate all those treasures with sheer abandon. Ironically, the Drakes of Salazsar had learned first-hand how easy it was to render gold, gemstones, or any valuable commodity useless by having a glut of wealth stockpiled. So they carefully expended their trove of treasures, digging deeper with each passing year, keeping themselves rich, but not bankrupting themselves by excess.

And some day, yes, some day, the glorious treasures of the earth might run out. But by that point, the Walled City would be the mountain itself. And the keepers of this great city had laid vast stockpiles of wealth against such a time.

It was said that Salazsar’s streets ran with gold and gemstones. Which was a blatant lie; anyone who saw, say, a citrine gemstone lying on the ground would snap it up in a second. Who left money lying around? And Salazsar had its lower classes, Ilvriss was all too aware. It was not perfect. But it was richer than any other Walled City.

And its Wall Lords were richest of all. A match for the wealthiest of the Humans in the north, like the conceited Magnolia Reinhart. But they did things better in Salazsar, of course. Ilvriss walked up the newer tower and pushed open a door set into the stone. Instantly, the cold, even chill air of altitude vanished. And he walked into pomp. Possibly circumstance.

The interior of the latest tower was adorned in rich carpeting. Wood built into the stone made Ilvriss feel as if he were suddenly enveloped in warmth; the fire burning in the entryway certainly did that. He luxuriated in the warmth after his cold walk for a moment, then briskly strode towards the next door.

It opened into a large staircase, which branched off into smaller rooms. This high up, of course, each room was meant for only a few occupants. But further down, as the spiraling staircase widened, you could reach entire mess halls, complexes of apartments, indoor courts for exercise—Ilvriss walked up instead of down. Not much further to go now.

Few people were up. Those who did see Ilvriss, sweeping along in his rich, dark clothing—silk, thank you, pleasant on the scales despite the cold of outside—bowed or nodded to him as was their wont. None exchanged words; they were all busy—until a young voice called out.

“Wall Lord! Wall Lord!”

Ilvriss turned his head. He saw a Drake child, scales as yellow as a flower, waving at him excitedly. He was tugging on the dress of a set-upon Drake, a [Tutor] perhaps, who was urging him into a doorway. The young Drake was dressed well; of course, he wouldn’t belong to this area if he wasn’t rich. Ilvriss strolled towards him, smiling.

“Young Felidel. Good morning to you.”

“You too! Wall Lord, sir. They said you were back in the city! Did you kill lots of Goblins? They said you fought with General Shivertail himself. Before he died.”

Ilvriss’ smile slipped a bit. The Drake [Tutor] curtsied, her cheeks red.

“Apologies, Wall Lord. I’m to teach Felidel’s class, but he insisted on waiting for you.”

“Not at all, Miss…?”

“Hessa, Wall Lord.”

“Miss Hessa. And Felidel, I’m gratified to see you. You’ve grown since our last chat, but we mustn’t inconvenience our fellow citizens, correct?”

The Drake child shuffled his feet.

“But—”

He looked up and caught Ilvriss’ smile. The Wall Lord nodded to Felidel.

“I have been gone a substantial time. I would have worried, but I’m sure you’ve protected our city while I’ve been gone?”

The Drake’s face lit up.

“I have, Wall Lord Ilvriss!”

“I expected no less. And I trust you’ll learn your lessons and grow into a Drake who can serve Salazsar well. Miss Hessa, I leave Felidel in your claws.”

Ilvriss straightened. He held out a claw, and Felidel shook it solemnly. The Wall Lord smiled. He nodded to the two Drakes, and then he was gone. There went Ilvriss. Purple-scaled, unaccountably handsome, regal even, one of the most respected Wall Lords in the city. A terror to Salazsar’s enemies, a champion of all Drakes.

Bereaved. Periss was dead. And few, too few knew or cared of her passing. Ilvriss walked slowly up the steps to a room near the top of the tower. There he paused, checked his clothing, and entered.

A Gnoll was waiting for Ilvriss, bending over a desk with a younger Drake and consulting a sheaf of papers. They had been sent up by a pulley and dumbwaiter; the Gnoll expertly rifled through them as the [Secretary] sent a reply written on neat, clean paper. The Gnoll, dressed in clothing almost as impeccable as Ilvriss, noticed the Wall Lord and turned. Ilvriss nodded to him.

“Alrric.”

“Wall Lord.”

Alrric nodded his head deferentially, but with only a touch of it. He was wearing a suit, a proper, tailored dress to Gnoll specifications, loose enough for movement and tailored to their form; not some ill-fitting suit. And he fit the part, despite suits being a Human conceit. His fur was short-cut, neatly trimmed and combed unlike the vast majority of Gnolls. It shone with a faint oil, and Alrric himself cut a dignified figure. Except for the black eye. Ilvriss eyed it as the [Secretary] bowed his head.

“I see the day has more than one surprise for me. Good morning, Josial. I’ll take the morning’s reports in my office. Alrric, if you’d care to join me?”

The Gnoll nodded. He pushed open the double doors, and Ilvriss stepped through. Down one short corridor with a branching intersection; this series of rooms wasn’t much. It was just big enough to contain what Ilvriss and Alrric considered essential staff for the management of his estates; it was all reports and managing up here. Ilvriss strode down the hall to the next set of double doors and into his office.

You could spend time describing what Ilvriss kept in his office, but that mainly became a description of endless binders and bookshelves of paperwork. Ilvriss kept his office bare of most interesting things, preferring that to his personal rooms. His office was to work, and so his tools of the trade were sealing wax, ink, quills, magnifying glass, spectacles, geological maps, an abacus, and, oh yes, a small bell.

And paperwork. A folder was already there, waiting to be perused. Ilvriss sat down with a sigh. Then he glanced up at Alrric. The Gnoll stood patiently with paws folded behind his back.

“A recent injury, Alrric? Or trophy?”

“I gained this last night. I thought I’d keep it for a day or two to remind everyone what it was for, Wall Lord.”

“Ah. I see. The regular dispute, then?”

Alrric smiled thinly.

“A few upset Gnolls I encountered while relaxing at a bar. They took issue with my appearance. I needn’t tell you what’s said.”

“Enlighten me?”

The Gnoll shrugged his shoulders.

“They call me a City Gnoll, sir. But worse, a pet. I’d use specific language, but I’m afraid I didn’t hear much after I took objection to their objection.”

“And then you challenged them to—what? Fisticuffs?”

Ilvriss smiled. Alrric grinned at the joke.

“I would not use that word to describe it, but something like that, yes. You know, they think I’m your [Butler], Ilvriss.”

The Wall Lord sat back in his chair. He tapped his claws together, eying Alrric. He shook his head dismissively.

“A common misconception they get from watching Humans. Did you explain to them the difference between your job and a Human’s before you took them to pieces?”

“I may have omitted that part.”

The Drake’s expression was wry.

“Perhaps it bears repeating for those who don’t know your class. I can see why they might object, though. Very few Drakes would suffer to be a permanent servant. And Gnolls likewise, Alrric. Could you do what the Humans do? Dress me each morning with your paws? Help me adjust the fit of my clothing? Powder my face?”

The Gnoll’s face said it all. Ilvriss imagined Alrric fussing over him each morning. Helping him bathe. The two shuddered as one.

“Humans. I can dress myself.”

“And I have my dignity, your Ancestors be praised. Will you review your holdings? We hit a vein of beryl the other day. Aquamarine, more’s the pity, but perhaps there’s some variation.”

Alrric gestured to the documents, and Ilvriss supposed the matter of the black eye was dropped. Gnolls did police themselves, and if it wasn’t an incident Alrric was willing to speak on, he could handle it himself. He nodded absently, paging through the document.

“Don’t send word I’ll be along; call it a surprise inspection. Hm. Are the reports…?”

“Left side of the desk. You also have a guest waiting on your pleasure.”

The Wall Lord signed with gratitude and pulled the papers over.

“Ah, efficiency. I have missed it. In that case, I’ll review, touch base with you on the holdings that have been underperforming in my absence—I think my Skills should improve efficiency just by my return, but we can review the [Manager]’s performances. And…did you say I had a guest?”

“Wall Lord Brilm. He’s waiting in the guest room. Not for long; I will send him in directly. It’s good to have you back, Ilvriss.”

“My pleasure, Alrric. I couldn’t leave my affairs out of place for too much longer either. I know you had it well in paw. Even so—it’s good to be home.”

The Gnoll smiled. He went for the door and opened it smartly. Ilvriss sighed. It was good. Managing his investments in his city, seeing to staff, enjoying his home—it had been too long. First a pointless campaign against an alliance of cities and fighting with Zel Shivertail in a bloody conflict, running up against the Goblin Lord, tracking down Ryoka Griffin in Liscor and staying there for—Ancestors, months—before returning home. It truly felt like years. Ilvriss was inspecting the first report in his pile when the door opened. Another Drake, pinkish-beige of scale and somewhat heavier than Ilvriss, but the same age, thrust his way into the room.

“Anyone home? Ilvriss!”

He spread his claws. Ilvriss got up. He walked out behind his desk and the two clasped claws.

“Brilm. A pleasure. To what do I owe this?”

The heavier Drake chuckled. To call him heavier really was mean; he wasn’t exactly overweight, just with a bit of extra flesh. And he cut a very dashing figure in his red-and-orange conflagration he called an outfit. Brilm was as energetic as Ilvriss reserved. He paced to Ilvriss’ desk and hurled himself into the chair.

“Visiting my friend after he’s been back for less than a week isn’t an occasion in itself? Ancestors, Ilvriss, but you haven’t called, and I’ve been remiss. Can’t you take a break from all this for a day or two and savor being back? You’ve been on the road for ages! This must be the height of luxury compared to what you went through.”

“It was hardly me camping out with a handkerchief held over my head. I had my command.”

“True. But it can’t have been easy. And after losing Periss, your best subordinate—ah, I’m sorry.”

Ilvriss’ face froze for a second as he sat down. He cleared his throat.

“Thank you. I’ve spoken to her family, but it’s…a blow. Yes. I regret it.”

“Damn Zel and his army. We might have been at odds with his cities, but he cut apart our army. No love for fellow Drakes, is there? No wonder he threw us over for the Humans at the end.”

“It wasn’t like that.”

“No? Tell me what it was like. Ah—never mind. I’m sorry. I shouldn’t speak ill of a war hero. And you were in the same spot as him, weren’t you? Tell me when I’m in a better mood.”

Ilvriss glanced up at Brilm’s sour face.

“Problem?”

“Only your Gnoll, Alrric. He showed me in without so much as an ounce of courtesy. Used my name and everything. I can’t fathom why you keep him around—it was hard enough dealing with him when you were gone. I know he’s efficient, but dead gods, there are limits to value, Ilvriss!”

The Wall Lord sighed. Suddenly, he remembered all the little issues that came with being home. Such as squabbles like this. He carefully avoided looking at his old childhood friend.

“He’s a busy fellow, Brilm. An [Administrator] cannot be expected to genuflect at every moment to a Wall Lord, can he? Let alone my [Gemstone Administrator] and executive director in command of all my affairs.”

The other Drake made a disgusted sound as he picked up Ilvriss’ monocle and stared through it.

“One step below a Wall Lord and you choose a Gnoll for your second-in-command. I’m not questioning you, Ilvriss. I just think it’s odd.”

Ilvriss leaned back in his chair, frowning.

“Really? Do you want to know how to light a fire under the tails of your Gnoll workers and have them try to outperform their Drake counterparts without actually lighting a fire, Brilm?”

“Enlighten me.”

“Make a Gnoll your top [Administrator]. And give anyone who works for the opportunity a chance to advance. I have six Gnoll [Head Miners] on my staff, each of them the best I could ask for. They came to me because they knew I’d give them the positions they earned. You might consider it yourself.”

“I employ many Gnolls.”

Brilm waved a claw, looking mildly offended. Ilvriss corrected the edge of his papers against the desk.

“How many working in your offices?”

Wall Lords controlled holdings, particular mining areas, or just enough wealth to finance the various sectors that kept Salazsar alive. They were, in truth, the hearts of the city. From their businesses, smaller shops, operations, and so forth flourished. And so each employed individual owed their allegiance to one particular Wall Lord. One…house of Salazsar. That was how the city operated, with efficiency unlike a democracy like Pallass. A Wall Lord had to actively manage his affairs or hire someone to do the job competently.

Brilm ignored the question. He eyed the reports Ilvriss was holding and abruptly changed the subject.

“Heard about the mining crew down on the old Creler-nest shaft? I hear they declined an offer to work for Wall Lady Tielma. Are you going to snap them up? I’ll make them an offer, but if you want another crew as good as they are—”

“I did make them an offer already.”

“Damn. How much? Mind trading me a [Foreman] or two?”

“I’m afraid you misunderstand. I was rejected. Flat out. I fear this team might try to finance themselves and work independent of any support. We might be seeing the growth of an independent mining operation soon, Brilm. Doesn’t that worry you?”

Brilm laughed incredulously.

“And how would they finance all their supplies? Tools? Guards against monsters? I hear rumblings like that every few years, Ilvriss. It’s nothing to worry about. To succeed in Salazsar you need a vast amount of wealth.”

“Or to strike a lucky vein.”

“True…”

The two fell silent. Mining was more expensive than a lot of people thought. Even if you dug up a lot of riches, processing and selling your goods was work. Protecting yourself against monsters who loved magical stones was a huge risk. And feeding miners, making sure they were well-equipped, defending against [Thieves] or the unscrupulous who might raid a mining site…it was why the Wall Lords were the founts of all industry. But Ilvriss had read of Drakes and Gnolls who’d created their own magnates from nothing in Salazsar’s history. He wasn’t as sanguine as Brilm.

“We’ll talk it over if it’s a problem later. At a dinner party. Mine this time. I’ll have my [Chef] put out a proper spread. Something to make you forget about any privations you may have had.”

The Drake smiled warmly. Ilvriss smiled as well, but he shook his head.

“It was hardly as arduous as you might think, Brilm. I was at Liscor when I wasn’t on campaign, and it’s no Salazsar, true, or even a Manus. But it has its strengths. For all its rustic qualities, I found myself enamored with the—the spirit of Liscor’s inhabitants. And there were a number of interesting diversions, for all it was trying at times.”

“Really? You’re saying this? Ilvriss? Ancestors, you have changed! I thought I’d hear nothing but a litany of complaints from you! I was prepared to hear you out and everything—I even brought a gift to cheer you up! I thought you didn’t tell us all about the horrid food and disgusting customs—not to mention the Antinium—because you were trying to spare us at your dinner party! Which was a hit, I might add!”

Brilm slapped the table. His rings struck the wood, and he adjusted one absently as he spoke. Ilvriss smiled.

“I wouldn’t let polite company hold me back from my real objections. But you enjoyed the dinner party?”

Brilm blew a kiss with his claws into the air.

“Magnificent. New dishes, fascinating conversation, tales of a Goblin Lord’s defeat, Antinium to worry over, even you pulling out a Pallassian [Captain] into your service out of nowhere—brilliant stuff! And that—that condiment you served with those potato wedges! Wonderful stuff. What did you call it?”

“Mayonnaise. A Human invention, but my [Chef] managed to make it quite palatable. I only regret that I couldn’t bring back more souvenirs of the journey. Some of the things I encountered were quite valuable.”

“Ah. Yes. The magical door.”

Brilm nodded seriously. He looked at Ilvriss and shook his head.

“That’s a treasure. We could use it. Not least to transport our miners from the lower veins to the surface! Or facilitate trade; a shame you couldn’t steal it. But I suppose with those damned Pallass fools trying to obstruct your travel back home, it was hard enough getting back. Congratulations on giving them the slip, by the way; we were leaning as hard as we could on them to let you through, but they weren’t budging. I was worried they’d sent their people after you.”

“I prepared for that. And the magic door did assist me in my escape.”

“It did? All the more reason to make a bid for it. But—later, later. And speaking of trinkets, I brought this to cheer you up. I might as well show you ahead of my dinner party; have a look at this.”

So saying, Brilm put a small object on the table. Ilvriss eyed it. It was…a gemstone. Quartz; common, fairly worthless until he noticed the shimmer of pink inside the cut crystal. Then he identified it.

“Hm. Pure quartz. Clearly holding a spell. Not a powerful one, though. Some kind of single-use spell? A charm?”

“Charm? Do I look like I use charms? Please, Ilvriss. Give me some credit. No, this is a recording. Listen. It’s a song.”

So saying, Brilm rubbed the quartz and spoke a word. Ilvriss heard a garbled sound, and then a blast of beating drums and a loud, Human’s voice. She was singing—well, shouting something out of the stone. He covered his earholes reflexively.

“What is that racket?”

The sound cut off. Brilm looked offended.

“It’s music! Don’t scowl! Listen!”

“It’s horrendous is what it is. You call that music? Are you on some kind of drugs, Brilm?”

“You have no taste, Ilvriss.”

“I’ve listened to more forms of music than I can count, Brilm. And that is worse than Dullahan love songs. Or Garuda scream-songs.”

Ilvriss grimaced. Brilm glared at him and then, grumbling, reached into the bag of holding he’d pulled the first stone from.

“I should have known not everything would change. Picky, picky—okay, try this one.”

He pulled out another quartz, this one glowing faintly blue from within. Ilvriss ignored the color; that just told him the stone was slightly magical. He watched as Brilm whispered the activation message for the second stone. At once, a soft melody began playing. Ilvriss tried to place the instrument—and then he heard a voice.

It was the same voice as before. A female Human’s voice. Ilvriss braced for a cacophony, but the words that came out were slow, sonorous, spoken with a slow melancholy. And the song—

Brilm smirked as Ilvriss’ eyes widened. Then he looked at the quartz. His own face softened, and his eyes closed. Ilvriss stared at the stone as the song played on. The music swelled, and horns and flutes accompanied the sad, slow song. But it wasn’t just pained. There was a triumph to it. A…passion that the female singer captured. And yet—the words could have come from Ilvriss himself.

The female voice sang on, as soulful as if she were in the same room as the two Drakes. And the words spoke to Ilvriss, in a way few songs had before. Because this was no [Bard]’s melody, certainly no tavern song. And the instruments, the composition—Ilvriss was a studied connoisseur of music in many forms of art. But this was a new style to him. You could feel it in every line. And yet, the song was polished.

And when it ended, Ilvriss felt himself exhaling a breath he didn’t know he’d held. The last notes of the horns and stringed instruments faded out with the young woman’s voice, and Ilvriss stared at the crystal. It stopped playing music, and he looked at Brilm. The Drake raised his brows silently.

“Hm. That’s…genuinely impressive. What’s the name of this song?”

“I believe it’s called My Way. Originally performed by…Frank Sinatra. I have no idea who that is. Look, it’s written here. But the song itself is being performed by the—the Queen of Pop.”

“Who?”

Brilm waved a claw.

“That’s what she calls herself. There’s no country called Pop—don’t bother looking for it. I already did. It’s a nickname. She’s known as the Baroness of the Beats. The Queen of Pop. The Siren of Songs. The [Singer] of Terandria.”

“All that for one Human?”

Ilvriss raised a skeptical eyebrow, but he was rattled despite himself. He looked back at the quartz. Brilm nodded.

“After listening to that song, I’ll call her the Countess of Catchy Music. She’s growing in popularity. And these song-stones are hers. A [Merchant] brought some to me, and I brought all three.”

“There are more?”

Ilvriss was interested. Brilm held his claw up, protecting his bag of holding.

“Not so fast! I have to show my guests something. You’ll like the last song. It’s good too. But I only have three of these crystals. They’re rare. Obviously; it’s a magical recording of a performance. I had to pay dearly for it. I gather it’s only really catching on around Terandria, where this Queen of Pop is based. But if she puts out more music like that—she’ll get my business.”

Ilvriss nodded absently. It might be good to look into. He eyed Brilm.

“You are a hawk for the newest trends, Human or not. You’re planning to back this Human financially, aren’t you?”

“You make your businesses prosper, Ilvriss. I respect that. I find new business and invest in it.”

The other Wall Lord studied his claws, looking pleased with himself. He gestured to the first crystal.

“Sure you don’t want to give the first song a try? I had the same reaction as you, but after a few more listens—I like it.”

“Have some taste.”

Ilvriss rolled his eyes good-naturedly as he reached for his reports. He skimmed through them as Brilm stowed the gemstones. And Ilvriss resolved to get a copy of the song if at all possible. It was why it was good to have Brilm as a close friend; if he invested in this [Singer], Ilvriss would be able to get any number of song-crystals from him.

It wasn’t a new concept, storing music in an artifact to be played later. Like the rat-catching flutes and so on. But storing it in a stone? That was somewhat novel. Could you record pictures in one? No—Ilvriss suspected that the quartz would lose the imprint of the music within a month. Even rocks forgot. He wondered if Brilm knew.

He was about to tell the Drake that when a report caught his eye. The [Secretary] had placed it near the top of the pile, and Ilvriss saw why at once. Brilm looked up as Ilvriss laughed.

“Something catch your eye?”

“Ah. I don’t know if you know, but Liscor’s going through a democratic phase. They’re planning on having elections.”

“Hah. That is funny.”

Ilvriss shook his head.

“No. See here. One of the candidates, a Gnoll, is getting backed by the Antinium.”

“Less funny.”

Alarmed, Brilm sat up. He peered at the report.

“Hang on, this is a copy of a message. From that Olesm Swifttail my [Strategist] was ranting about the other day. Did you hear? He was apparently vouching for Goblins to be—”

“Brilm, just read.”

The Wall Lord fell silent for a second and skimmed Olesm’s introduction to his latest newsletter. Ilvriss laughed to himself as he read it upside down.

“You see? He’s apologizing. But—”

“The election in his city. I see. He’s warning us all. You know this Olesm Swifttail?”

Brilm slid the paper back, looking slightly respectful. Ilvriss nodded. He looked fondly at the letter, picturing Olesm in his mind.

“Clever lad. Bring up the Raskghar to make this an issue of security. And mix an apology with some astute commentary on the Antinium. Well done.”

“It’s more than astute. It’s essential! Dead gods, those idiots at Liscor—I knew they were touched to let Antinium build a Hive below their city, but they’ll let them expand their Hive? Allow more Antinium into the city? Madness! We have to back this Lism fellow.”

Brilm urgently flipped through the newsletter, his neck spines standing on end. Ilvriss frowned, reading another page himself.

“I see. It’s trickier than I thought. Gnolls versus Drakes. I can see why this Gnoll’s pushing for it. And at the same time, I’m certain that with young Swifttail at his back, this Lism could win any regular election. Especially given the campaign topic. But…”

He drummed his claws on the table. Brilm looked up. Ilvriss sighed. He thought of Liscor and wished he’d delayed his departure. If he’d known this would happen—but he had his own city to think of. Even so—he looked at Brilm.

“By all means, Salazsar will back such a proposal. Funding Liscor’s expansion and security is a matter the cities should be united upon. And I may, as a private individual, make a donation to young Swifttail’s cause. I imagine some of our peers might well do the same.”

The Drake pounded a fist on the table.

“Naturally! If it means keeping the Antinium from stealing more power, I’ll give that Drake a few hundred gold pieces myself. So long as it’s going to a good cause. Is that your worry? That this Olesm or Lism will pocket the gold?”

“Not at all. It’s simply that I don’t know if they’ll win.”

“What’s the problem? We fund Liscor’s expansion, and the Antinium don’t have a leg to stand on. Surely Liscor’s citizens aren’t that far gone that they’d reject—”

“It’s not them. It’s her.”

“Who?”

Ilvriss stared out the window of his office. Gently, he traced his claws across the table, and his claws went to one of his fingers. His…ring finger. And the groove of scales, slightly indented. Brilm looked down, noticing the gesture. And his eyes went round.

“Your ring—”

He grasped at a golden band on his own ring finger. Ilvriss looked up. He covered his hand discreetly.

“It will find its way to me. And I gave it with purpose, Brilm.”

“You. Gave your ring. To whom? Your future wife? Ancestors save me. Are you getting married?”

Ilvriss ignored the question. He looked thoughtfully at the report.

“Liscor is an interesting place, Brilm. You should visit it. And they need more security. More funding. And more space, by all means. All these things are pressing. But for donating to young Olesm’s campaign—I think I’ll wait. Until Liscor’s most dangerous Human makes her move.”

“Most dangerous Human. Liscor has Humans?”

“At least one. Erin Solstice. Say, Brilm, you wouldn’t happen to have more of those recorded songs, would you?”

The other Wall Lord smiled distractedly.

“I’ll put you on the list. But about this Human. What will she do? What can any Human do?”

“Well…”



——



“Liscor! Meet Pallass!”

Erin spread her arms and shouted. Hundreds of faces stared up at her through the magical door. And from four hundred miles away, Liscor’s people stared into Pallass.

“Ancestors. Is this Pallass?”

Wonderingly, a Drake poked his head out of the door. He stared at the crowd gathered on the street near one of the four central staircases of Pallass’ city. Stout Dullahans in armor, bright-feathered Garuda flying up off the ground for a better look, Drakes in every color of scales, and Gnolls, their fur less colorful but shaded in patterns of grey, brown, dark red to blonde, black—but never white—staring and perking up their ears.

And beyond them? Pallass. City of Inventions. It might not have been Salazsar, but that did not mean it was any less of a wonder. The city lay below the staircase, floor upon floor of buildings, each floor the size of a smaller Drake city or larger, home to a hundred thousand souls. Pallass, a city of millions.

It was the first time Selys Shivertail had ever laid eyes on it. Really seen it, rather. She had been to Pallass before. But that had been when she’d been searching for information on the Heartflame Breastplate with Pisces. And he had almost trivialized the event. And Selys herself hadn’t taken it in. But now?

Grimalkin stood in an opening in the crowd, lifting a weights bar over his shoulders. He lifted the bar loaded with weights in a perfect shoulder press. Watching him was a giant of a Dullahan, a blacksmith. Maughin, the famed [Armorer] of Pallass. And a dozen other [Smiths] had descended from their ninth floor to join the crowd. They were debating weights as Grimalkin did another press. The [Mage] nodded in satisfaction and handed the bar off to a Drake nearly as burly. Relc.

“It’s too light for me. These weights you’ve added are ten pounds each, Maughin? Can you add something heftier?”

“Probably.”

The Dullahan frowned as he inspected the weights. He turned to Bealt, the Gnoll [Farrier].

“It shouldn’t be too hard to cast some iron weights. I can see twenty, even fifty pounds of iron going on this bar. It’s good steel.”

The Gnoll nodded.

“Not a problem. The only cost is in the actual iron—which is considerable. And while we can use weaker irons, the bar needs to be quality steel.”

“Exactly. But if Grimalkin’s correct, and this is a business opportunity, the actual work is far simpler than, say, a breastplate. A single weight bar and rounded weights? We can do a sample set in a day.”

“Yeah! Give me three—no, four hundred pounds! Come on! I can take it!”

Relc roared happily as he did press ups with the bar. A pair of children, Garuda, and Gnoll, grabbed on to both ends as they descended. The weights bar wobbled, then Relc lifted it over his head to the delight of the shrieking children. He shouted, his muscles bulging.

“This is amazing! Lift! Lift! Hey, the rest of you runts grab on! I can—lift—it!”

He did another shoulder press as six more children latched onto the bar. The Drake had to work for the next shoulder press, but he managed it. His pectorals and triceps bulged, and Grimalkin, watching, nodded approvingly.

“Simple. Safe. Efficient. So long as it’s done right. Maughin, forget the sample. I’ll take six sets. And here’s my gold deposit.”

He reached into his bag of holding and pulled out a handful of gold pieces and began counting them into the Dullahan’s hand. At that, the other [Smiths] crowded around, quoting prices.

“Hold on! I can do a weights bar for—eighteen gold pieces!”

“Eighteen? Hah! I’ll do it for fourteen!”

“You swindling—ignore him. I can do it for sixteen, pure steel, by evening! And I’ll throw in four of those weights.”

“The bar came from my forge! I’ll do a batch myself!”

Maughin elbowed the other [Smiths] back, shouting at them. Grimalkin looked around as Relc tried another shoulder press with eight kids handing on.

“Y-yeah! Yeah? No, wait, you’re too heavy! Let go! Let—”

And that was just the conversation with the [Smiths]. At the door, Erin stood as both crowds from Liscor and Pallass shouted questions at each other. The noise was chaotic at first, but after a few minutes, it began to resolve itself as they took turns shouting at each other.

“I saw this door! This was the one that the army went through! And where we saw those giant moths attacking the city! You can move it?”

A Gnoll demanded with an open mouth, pointing at Erin’s inn through the door. He was one of the onlookers who’d noticed the door on Pallass’ side. On Liscor’s side, a veritable crowd of citizens, all poached from the election debate on the street, were staring back wonderingly. Erin laughed.

“Why not? It’s just a door! Hi! I’m Erin Solstice, [Innkeeper], and owner of The Wandering Inn! All of these people are from Liscor! Sorry—no entry—the door’ll run out of mana! But we can talk!”

“This is really Pallass?”

A Drake with pink-and-blue scales demanded on Liscor’s side, looking urgently at Erin. The young woman nodded, looking perplexed.

“Yup. It’s always been here. Did you hear?”

“I did. And I wanted to go through, maybe. Sometime. But—Ancestors. I’ve always dreamed of coming to a Walled City. But like this? I could just walk through and—”

She waved a claw at the door’s entrance and shuddered, looking pale. Erin’s face went blank. She didn’t get it. But Selys and Krshia and the other Liscorians, standing in the crowd, did.

Pallass. It was right in front of them. A Walled City, one of the six wonders of Izril, just like that. The Gnolls and Drakes stared, almost aghast by the sight. Selys was there, along with Krshia, Elirr, and the rest of the Gnolls on Krshia’s election campaign. But they’d forgotten their campaign for the moment—

“I’ve never seen it. The streets are beautiful.”

Someone whispered from Selys’ right. She looked down and saw an old Drake man blinking back tears. He pointed at the smooth blocks of stone that made up Pallass’ streets, so unlike the cobblestones of Liscor or Celum. Pallass’ citizens stared at their streets, nonplussed. One of them pointed at Erin.

“What was all this about you handing out that wet stuff? Ice cream?”

“Yup! We’re out for the moment—all the [Smiths] ate it. But we’re making more. Hey! You know you can come through, right? We can do like two people a day, but if you ask to go through, it’s free. It has been for ages.”

“Not in Pallass.”

One of the Dullahans folded her arms. Pallass’ citizens looked disgruntled. Liscor’s were still in a state of shock.

“I always wanted to visit all six Walled Cities. It was my dream.”

The old Drake murmured. Another Gnoll in his middle ages shook his head.

“I didn’t. I always thought it was an exaggeration. When they told me stories about Pallass, I thought—their walls couldn’t really be that high. This is it?”

He looked down the grand staircase and blanched. The perspective of the door was unsettling. If you looked at it a certain way, it felt like you could fall down into the door and go flying into the heart of Pallass. Selys felt her stomach roiling at the thought. Erin looked exasperated.

“Well, why didn’t you ask to go through, sir? Or go earlier? You can travel.”

The old Drake looked at her as if she were mad.

“It’s not so easy to travel. I can’t just pack up my life like some [Wanderer]. I thought I’d never leave Liscor in my lifetime. It was my dream. This? This is too easy. And what would I do? Spend a fortune I don’t have on trinkets for my grandchildren? Pay for—for what?”

He waved a shaking claw at Pallass. Erin just shook her head. One of Pallass citizens laughed. A Garuda with a fiery red plume of feathers around her head that slowly shifted to orange raised her voice as she flew up a few feet, flapping her wings. The old Drake recoiled, staring.

“You needn’t spend money, sir! Pallass has any number of free places to visit. Our library, for instance! The Library of Pallass has tens of thousands of books! See?”

She pointed down at a lower floor. Liscor’s citizens craned their heads to see. Erin oohed—Selys stared down at the familiar building. She hadn’t been so blown away when she’d visited it, but then, she’d been with Pisces, and he was an expert at not seeming impressed by anything—she glanced over her shoulder. The Horns were at the back of the crowd, tiptoeing to see.

Pallass’ citizens agreed with the Garuda. More of them began calling out.

“By all means, visit! Even if you have only a few gold pieces, try the bazaar! First floor! Our markets on the first floor see hundreds of [Traders] and [Merchants] each day. We trade in countless thousands of goods.”

“Wow. Is that it?”

Erin pointed at a distant speck, far below. The crowd on Pallass’ side nodded.

“Or just ride a magical lift! Have any of you seen one?”

Agog, Liscor’s citizens shook their heads. The Garuda with the red feathers flew back and pointed out a huge elevator in the distance. Selys’ jaw dropped along with Krshia’s as she saw a small herd of cattle ascending at dizzying speeds thousands of feet away. One of the Drakes on Pallass’ side smirked in patriotic pride.

“Our main cargo lifts can carry goods across the city. That’s how we can have our forges on the ninth. And do you see the canals and water running up the sides of the walls? That would be our irrigation system. Note the water wheels? We’ve developed a system that can efficiently transport water up. We run a river through the entire city, from level to level. Anyone who wants drinking water can have it fresh.”

“You can make water run uphill? How? Magic?”

“Magic and engineering, sir. You see, it’s all about these water wheels one of our [Engineers] came up with. That, plus this system that allows us to convert magical energy into a pushing force that powers these gears—”

He launched into a technical explanation that Selys could only half-process. She was still staring. Then someone collided with her back and she nearly fell forwards.

“Whoops. Sorry. Can you move? I’m dying to see.”

An aggressive Gnoll pushed past Selys and stepped forwards. Too far—hands and claws pulled him back towards the semi-circle surrounding the magic door. Selys looked around. The crowd in Erin’s inn was a hundred strong and growing by the second. She looked at Erin, who was beaming and nodding along with the explanation.

“Erin. Hey, Erin.”

The young woman looked up. She stepped back, and Selys fought clear of the crowd. Panting, she joined up with Erin and looked back. Erin had moved her magical door to the side wall to allow as many people as possible to look through. But the inn was packed, and Selys saw more people crowded by the door—and peeking through the windows! Erin looked miffed as she gazed at them.

“Oh, so now they want to check out Pallass. They didn’t all the other days it’s been here!”

“No one really took it seriously, I guess. I mean, walking through a door and going to Pallass? I didn’t know it was so huge. Even when I visited, we just took an elevator down. But this view—”

“Cool, isn’t it?”

Erin smiled. Selys gulped. That wasn’t her word for it. The sight was daunting. Terrifying. It made her feel insignificant. She had known Liscor all her life and thought of her home city as fairly big. But now—it would fit on one of the lower floors!

To distract herself, Selys pointed at the door as she looked at her friend.

“Erin, what’s all this? You said you’d help me with Krshia’s election! Is this part of your plan?”

“…Sort of?”

Erin narrowed her eyes. She frowned at the crowd and shrugged.

“It’s a work in progress. We’re still waiting on two more parts, but it’ll do.”

“How? This isn’t helping us. I mean, it’s a distraction from Lism, which is what we need, but what can Pallass offer us? That’s more of Lism’s campaign—they’re promising to help pay for the expansion instead of the Antinium.”

“I know, I know. But—trust me, I think it’ll work out. I just need to get some stuff from the kitchen.”

Erin grabbed Selys’ claws, smiling reassuringly. She turned as a harried young woman appeared.

“Lyonette! What’s the word?”

“Erin! How did you attract half of Liscor to the inn?”

The [Princess] looked delighted and close to baldness as she yanked at her hair. Behind her, Ishkr, Drassi, and a dozen of the inn’s staff were rushing in and out of the kitchen and behind the bar. Erin smiled.

“Don’t worry about it. No one’s hungry—yet. Just get that ice cream ready and have the ovens working, okay?”

“We need four more ovens and twenty more hands!”

Lyonette bit her lip. Erin just shrugged. Both Lyonette and Drassi eyed her and both had an incredible urge to poke the smiling [Innkeeper], if only to get rid of that relaxed grin.

“You have a plan.”

Selys folded her arms. Erin nodded seriously.

“I do. And—wait for it, Lyonette. You’ll get a chance to sell stuff. But wait. Are the Players of Celum here?”

She looked at the stage. Lyonette stood on her tiptoes, and then found a chair and stood on it to look over the crowd. Selys was the tallest of the three, so she could see by craning her head that there was a bunch of very nervous [Actors] on the stage at the far end.

“They arrived this morning like you wanted, Erin. But I don’t think they’re ready to perform in front of a crowd like this.”

“They know Juliet and Romeo. If they can put on a play, it’s fine. I’ll talk to them. What I need from you, Lyonette, is one of our pizzas. Hot and fresh.”

“I have six in our two ovens baking—”

“The old ones are good. Can you warm one up? I’ll talk to Temile. That’s all I need. Selys, you just wait. I think I know what’s going down. Tell Krshia not to worry—I’ve got this on lock! I think.”

The Drake stared as Erin pushed through the crowd, who parted almost unconsciously for her. The [Receptionist] looked back at Lyonette. The [Princess] gave her a harried look.

“She says she knows what she’s doing.”

“Right.”

They stared at each other. Lyonette sighed.

“I’ve got healing potions, and if we sold to just a tenth of the people here, we’d make a small fortune! Selys, if you see Mrsha, please make sure she stays back from the crowd. I don’t want her getting trampled. I warned her, but—”

Selys looked around and spotted a flash of white balancing on one table. Mrsha and Apista craned to see over the crowd. She pointed mutely, and Lyonette frowned.

“I suppose that’s fine. Pallass, huh?”

She looked at Selys. The Drake nodded.

“It’s something. Compared to Liscor.”

The [Princess] gave her a look.

“Compared to anywhere. My home kin—my home isn’t as impressive in a lot of ways. A Walled City is impressive. I should visit. I took it for granted too, really.”

“Yeah.”

Selys looked back at the doorway. But not just the doorway. At the soaring Garuda, the Dullahans. Species she’d only heard of before, never seen in any numbers. And Grimalkin. Selys remembered his performance, and Maughin. Even Relc seemed small beside Grimalkin as the [Mage] reclaimed the weight bar. And that bothered Selys more than she could say.

“I’ll get that pizza.”

Lyonette hurried off. Selys drifted back to the crowd. She looked to Krshia, thinking to reassure her, but the Gnoll was entranced by the conversation happening at the door. Pallass’ citizens were no less curious than Liscor’s, and now that a dialogue had been established, the questions were turning to Liscor as much as Pallass.

“So your city’s the furthest north. What do all of you do? I know your army fights abroad—we had them, oh, three years back on contract for a nasty campaign against some Gnoll tribes who were raiding our trade routes. But what do the rest of you do?”

A Pallassian citizen dressed in casual velvet—which was a contradiction in terms—looked interestedly through the door. She looked and felt richer than anyone Selys knew. Saving herself, perhaps. A Drake volunteered the answer, patting at his somewhat stained jerkin.

“Well, there are a lot of regular crafts folk, [Farmers] in some of our villages, artisans—you know how it is. [Miners] too, since we do have some deposits. Come spring and the rains, we’re all [Fishers], of course. But I’m a [Hunter] by trade. I’d say there are at least a hundred or two of us in the city. There’s a lot of good game on the Floodplains.”

“Really? Hunters?”

The rich Drake lady had a blank look on her face that said that she’d never picked up a bow, except of the ribbon variety. Some of Pallass’ Gnolls looked interested, as did some Garuda, though. A Pallassian Gnoll raised a paw and shouted to be heard.

“But I hear your city’s got lots of monsters about! How do you handle it? The area around Pallass is good for game and sport, but serious hunting?”

“Well, we do have Hollowstone Deceivers—”

“What?”

“Rock Crabs? Big, scuttling monsters. But you can scare them off with a bit of luck, or outrun them in most cases. They’re not exactly stealthy. Sometimes, I have to abandon a kill, but the real problem is Shield Spiders. We’re lousy with them—it’s actually our annual culling season for them. Prevents them from digging too many pit traps.”

Pallass’ citizens were appalled. The Drake woman spoke slowly as she nervously fondled a velvet sleeve.

“Shield Spiders? You have actual monsters living that close to your city?”

“Well, not in it—”

There was a tentative laugh from both sides. Selys wanted to, but she felt a constricting feeling around her chest. The curious Pallass Gnoll folded his arms.

“Lots of spiders, huh? I wouldn’t mind coming through to Liscor. Bag a big one for my mantle, maybe. It’d be a unique…experience. Right?”

He looked around. Some of the people in the crowd nodded with grins. Liscor’s people looked mildly offended. The Drake [Hunter] coughed.

“There’s plenty to see. Not just our monsters. True, we don’t have, uh, as much space as Pallass, but we have a few wonderful spots.”

“Like what?”

“Well—we’ve got an indoor park. Terrific fun for the children. Enchanted, of course, by Wistram [Mages]. And we have public bathhouses—the best for a hundred miles! The Human cities like Esthelm and Wales don’t even have them. And we get [Merchants] from the north—”

“Really? We don’t see many Humans. A lot send goods by way of Zeres, but it’s generally Drakes or Gnolls who make the land route. And a public park? We just leave the city if we want to run around. There’s a lot of nice space to run.”

The Gnoll smiled. He gestured at the walls.

“It’s just a few minutes’ walk, tops. Our lifts are very efficient. As for bathhouses—well, Liscor might be the best in a hundred miles. You should come and try ours.”

“Thanks, but ours are fairly famous, you know?”

Another Drake chuckled in The Wandering Inn. The Gnoll on Pallass’ side just shook his head. He pointed down at a lower floor at a large, circular building.

“See that? That’s one of our bathhouses. We have five. Each one can hold thousands of people at any moment. We even have pools to swim in. Fed by our river.”

Pallass’ citizens nodded. On Liscor’s side, the Drakes and Gnolls fell uncomfortably silent. The Gnoll glanced over his shoulder.

“There’s the other one. They’re themed, you see. In the style of each continent? I personally like the Rhir architecture myself, and they’re all cheap—”

His pointing pa w was blocked for a second by a flurry of movement in the air. Selys frowned. What was that?

“Are those birds?”

She pointed at a bunch of dark shapes, a flock or something, that had blocked the view for a second. The Gnoll glanced over his shoulder. The Drake in velvet laughed. She shook her head.

“Birds? No, no. Oldblood Drakes in training. We might not have Oteslia’s winged corps, but we do have hundreds of fliers in the city.”

“Hundreds? Wow.”

Someone muttered behind Selys. Selys felt the same sentiment. But she refrained from saying it out loud. One look at the Drake lady’s face said too much. She smiled—politely—and stared back through the door at Liscor’s crowd.

“What else does your city have?”

And there it was again. That same wavering in the stomach and heart that Selys had felt looking upon Pallass’ forges the first time. Liscor’s citizens drew back a step unconsciously. And no one spoke. Of course, their city had lots of wonders. Tons! The—the dungeon for instance? True, that wasn’t exactly a plus. And it had lots to see. Wishdrinks, for example. Great bar. Or how about Market Street? It was always bustling?

Or—or Stonesong Boulevard? That was where all the aspiring [Singers] or [Bards] were exiled. Liscor didn’t have many high-level musicians, but it was a good place if you wanted to hear some nice music and a few duds.

It had plenty, thanks. Only, it was hard to say that to Pallass’ expectant, almost—no, definitely patronizing—crowd. With their stupid five bathhouses. So what? Liscor wasn’t as big.

And that was it. That was the thing. Liscor wasn’t as big. And if you lined them up like this, with an open door so you could see their city and yours, it hurt. It might have hurt more if they were on Liscor’s cobblestone streets, wonderful, but—narrower. Humbler. Selys looked around desperately. Wouldn’t someone say something?

“Well, I’d like to visit. Just once or twice. I didn’t see the need, especially with that five gold entry fee. But maybe a visit or two? But later—I think your side should come through and have a look. Shame that you can only do, what, two per day? But come on over, by all means! It’s a wonderful thing, this door. For both cities.”

The Pallassian Gnoll looked around, to murmurs of agreement from Pallass’ crowd. Selys opened her mouth, but no words came out. She felt in her bones that she had to defend her home! But what could she say? What could she point to? The citizens of Liscor looked on as Pallass’ citizens started to drift away, looking so smug—

And then a cheerful voice rang out. A familiar scent caught Selys’ attention. Erin Solstice walked through the crowd, and they parted for her. The young woman beamed, stepped through the door, and lifted what was on a large serving platter.

“Hey! Anyone want a pizza?”

Pallass’ citizens turned. They blinked at the strange, round object that Erin was holding. A pizza. Selys recognized it at once. Just a pizza. She must have eaten at least ten already, so it was no surprise to her. Big, round crusts, warm, melted cheese, and slices of salami—it looked good. Even if Selys wasn’t hungry. But for some reason, it stopped Pallass’ crowd in their tracks. The [Smiths] arguing over weights looked up. So did Grimalkin.

“Pizza? What’s that?”

Erin innocently raised it over her head, waving at Maughin and Bealt and the [Smiths].

“I thought I’d bring some out. As a thank-you. Come on over and have a slice! You don’t need a plate, but I do have napkins.”

The [Smiths] looked bemused, but some of them who knew what was what by now pushed forwards, including Bealt. Maughin had to edge forwards slowly so he wouldn’t crush any toes, but Relc wasn’t so restrained. He dropped the weight bar at once and punched a fist up in delight.

“Aw yeah, pizza! Grimalkin, buddy, get over here. You have to try this.”

He towed the [Mage] forwards. Erin offered the platter, and Relc pulled off a gooey slice, crowing in satisfaction. He lifted it up and took a bite.

“So good! Erin, I love you. This is free, right?”

“Free for my friends! Don’t you dare take another slice! Grimalkin, want one?”

The [Mage] looked bemused as she watched Relc holding his slice on his scaled palm.

“You don’t use a plate? Ah—like Lizardfolk walking foods. I had something like this on Baleros, but they were skewers.”

“I’ve got a napkin if you don’t like greasy palms. Here.”

Erin expertly flipped a bit of cloth onto Grimalkin’s hand and offered him a slice. He took it, bit into it, and his eyes widened.

“Hm! Better than that sugary stuff! Fascinating. And quite good!”

“Right? Can I have another slice, Erin? Please? Please?”

“I’ve got one pizza! No! Maughin, here.”

Erin lifted her platter off, fending Relc’s claws back with her free hand. The Dullahan delicately took a slice with one huge hand and lifted it up. Erin lowered it and offered the pizza to Bealt and the other [Smiths]. Three [Smiths] and an apprentice snatched the last four slices. There was a moment as everyone watched the eight chewing, and Selys felt a rumble in her stomach. Then Maughin smiled.

“Hot. Good food. Too much cheese for me, but it’s novel.”

“I like it.”

Bealt was wagging his tail hard. So was Relc, and the other [Smiths] all gave silent thumbs-up. The crowd, eying the wagging tails, looked at the empty platter. Someone—the supercilious Gnoll—coughed.

“You wouldn’t happen to have another one of those, would you, Miss? Where is that from? I’ve never heard of it. Some kind of local dish?”

“Nah. It’s just new. I mean, I haven’t seen anyone else selling it. And sure! I’ve got at least three more in the inn. Want to try them? Say, eight copper a slice?”

“One silver’s easier! One silver!”

Lyonette hissed at Erin as she rushed three more pizzas out of the kitchen. Liscor’s crowd watched, bemused, as Erin grabbed the pizzas and began doling them out on handkerchiefs.

Selys bit her tongue. One silver for a pizza slice? But Pallass’ citizens didn’t even object. They pulled out silver coins and practically tossed them at Erin, even fighting to get the pizza slices before they were consumed. And after the lucky twenty-four had gotten their slices, a call went up for more.

“What is it? Good? I’ve never seen anything like it. And I was in Oteslia just last week!”

The velvet Drake lady complained as she watched the Gnoll devouring his. He was biting it cautiously. His brows shot up as he took a bite of the tip, then he peeled back the cheese on the rest of the pizza and studied it with a practiced eye.

“I detect a bread-like base. Clearly a tomato sauce. And…cheese on top? With those slices of salami of course. Not hard to replicate.”

He looked expertly at the crowd. Selys sensed at once that he was a [Cook] or [Chef] or [Baker] of some kind. He sniffed the pizza, took a huge bite, and swallowed. Then he turned to Erin.

“Miss? I’ll have another slice, if you don’t mind? To go?”

He had a cunning expression on his face. Erin turned to him and raised her eyebrows.

“Sorry. I’m out. We have six more on the way, people!”

Lyonette nodded rapidly from inside the inn. Pallass’ citizens looked discontented, but the Gnoll, his expression and fur around his mouth both oily, shook his head.

“No need. I can make some of these myself.”

“You can?”

The velvet female Drake was intrigued. The Gnoll puffed himself up. He grinned, pointing at the remains of his pizza slice in his hand.

“Yes. And it’s hardly a hard recipe to follow. We could get this to our restaurants within an hour with some experimentation. Even improve it. Say—you Liscor folk.”

He pointed through the doorway. Erin put her hands on her hips, smiling with a glint in her eye, but the Gnoll didn’t notice. He pointed at the Drake [Hunter], and waved the slice of pizza at him.

“Sir, how would you like to have one of these ‘pizzas’ at a lower cost? With better ingredients? I’m sure we could shave at least a few coppers off the price. Imagine it, a new dish, served in my restaurant, the Wyvern Steakhouse—”

He was surprised by the chorus of laughter from Liscor’s side. Selys grinned openly as the Gnoll blinked at them. The [Hunter] from Liscor shook his head, highly amused.

“I’m sorry, sir. No discredit to your Skills, but even the most superior pizza wouldn’t tempt me. I had one just the other day, and it’s not new to us over here. We’ve been eating pizzas for months, Mister [Chef]. And we’ve had all different types. Fish pizzas, mushroom pizzas, Yellat pizzas…”

The elderly Drake nodded.

“They do a really nice all-meat pizza. Have you been to that Gnoll [Baker] down Cherile Walk? She makes this pizza with eight different cuts of meat—goat, Corusdeer, beef—all crispy and tender.”

A few of the others in Liscor’s crowd smacked their lips. The [Hunter] turned to the elderly Drake, intrigued.

“Really? I have to visit sometime. Myself, I enjoy a good soup, but I enjoy the novelty of this kind of food. It doesn’t sit as well in my stomach, mind—”

Pallass’ citizens just stared. Crestfallen, the Gnoll [Chef] looked around.

“This isn’t new? But we haven’t heard of it.”

“Probably because it came from Liscor. Or at least, this inn. Maybe Pallass just hasn’t gotten the latest recipes? Ice cream—Erin knew how to make that too.”

Selys called out, laughing with delight. The red-feathered Garuda exclaimed in excitement.

“That was what it was? But I heard it was from Terandria! It’s rare even in First Landing!”

“It’s okay. Too sugary for me. We’ve had it as long as the pizza.”

The [Hunter] waved a claw, looking at the others with an expression of deep pride. Selys saw the expressions go slack on Pallass’ side. Erin smiled and winked through the doorway.

“It’s not for everyone. But I have more! Lyonette! How’s our ice cream?”

“I’m selling a bowl at four silver!”

“Four silver?”

Selys and the crowd on Liscor’s side looked aghast. Pallass’ citizens stared at each other. Then they tried to rush the doorway. Erin had to hold them back, blocking the entrance and shouting as Lyonette exchanged money and bowls at the door. Ishkr, a long-suffering look on his face, held a bowl steady as Drassi scooped out the ice cream into bowls that Mrsha was holding up. And Selys felt that knot in her chest easing almost without her noticing it.

Then she saw Erin turn. Someone shouted, and the crowd’s press around the door broke up. A group of yellow-armored [Guards] fought through and formed a curtain around the door. Pallass’ City Watch. Selys stared as an angry Drake strode forwards, shouting the crowd back. He whirled, and Erin smiled.

“Hi, Watch Captain Venim! How’s it going?”

The Drake took one look at Erin, the door, the crowd beyond, and closed his eyes. When he opened them, Erin was still there. He looked at her, half-furious, half with the resigned look that Zevara wore whenever she saw Erin. Still, it was only his fourth or fifth time, so he mustered some genuine outrage.

“Miss Solstice. What is the meaning of this? You’ve caused a blockage on the southern stairwell, and my Watchman on duty claims you strong-armed him, absconded with two of our most prominent citizens—”

He broke off, eying Grimalkin and Maughin. The Dullahan winced, but Grimalkin just folded his arms.

“Absconded, Watch Captain Venim? What am I, a kidnapping victim? Master Maughin and I went through that door of our own free will. As we are allowed to do? And the last I checked, public gatherings aren’t considered a crime.”

Venim backed up a step. He worked his jaw, and then spoke civilly to Grimalkin.

“My apologies, Magus Grimalkin. However, this is a disturbance. What is—what’s going on?”

He only now seemed to realize exactly how many people were standing in Erin’s inn. Watching him. It was a mark of his experience that Venim only paused for a second before smoothly turning to Erin and pretending the crowd didn’t exist. Erin smiled a bit guiltily. She looked over Venim’s shoulder at the [Guardsmen], the fuming Kel, and shrugged.

“I’m sorry. I know I’m causing a fuss. But—I’m just having a fun conversation! Selling some food out of my inn.”

Venim passed a claw over his face.

“Selling food. You mean, like a street vendor? Miss Solstice, you need a permit, and you’re not allowed to sell outside of designated areas—”

“Nope! Out of my inn. Which is right there.”

For proof, Erin pointed. Venim turned and caught a few hundred pairs of eyes again. He wavered.

“Even so, it looks like—”

“I can move! If it’s illegal. Or is it just inconvenient?”

The young woman gave Watch Captain Venim another innocent stare. He wavered.

“And the crowd?”

He looked at Liscor’s citizens. Lyonette silently circulated their ranks, passing out bowls of popcorn and receiving copper coins in return. Erin beamed.

“They want to see what your awesome city looks like! Is that illegal?”

“No. Of course. I mean—it is a crowd. In Liscor. We have loitering laws, you know. But if it’s Liscor—”

The Drake Watch Captain was clearly struggling to keep up. He glanced over his shoulder and decided there was no help for it. He saluted smartly.

“Citizens of Liscor, a…pleasure. But Miss Solstice, this is blocking a major stairwell.”

He looked at Erin as a pleading note entered his voice. Erin was at once instantly reasonable.

“Is it? You’re right! I’m so sorry. We can move back to the old spot! Hey Grimalkin, Relc! Mind shifting the door a bit?”

The two Drakes looked up. Grimalkin shrugged, and Relc grinned. The [Guardsmen] hesitated as the two burly Drakes walked at them. They looked at their Watch Captain, but Grimalkin just pushed aside a Dullahan in Pallass’ uniform and casually lifted a corner of the door. Venim bit his tongue as Relc cheerfully scooted past two Gnolls who didn’t quite want to bar his way.

“City Watch, we’ll give the door an escort. And—and maintain a presence to enforce the peace. Miss Solstice?”

Erin cheerfully nodded. She pointed, and the two Drakes lifted the door with a grunt. Inside the inn, Selys experienced vertigo and a sense of movement as she watched the door proceed down the street—despite her not moving her feet. Elirr, standing next to Krshia, murmured.

“How odd. But fascinating! I would pay money to have someone walk this door around the city, yes?”

Someone else nodded.

“Me too.”

On the other side of the door, Erin walked with Venim. And the crowd walked with the door. They were certainly not about to disperse when the fascinating doorway was leaving. Even Maughin was tromping after the door, holding the weights bar. Perhaps he smelled more opportunity for business in the air. Or perhaps, like Bealt and the other [Smiths], who’d doubled in number since Erin had last looked, they’d been caught.

All according to plan. Although—Erin looked around swiftly. She didn’t recognize the two faces she was really waiting for. Still, her plan was mostly going in the general direction she’d hoped for. And Venim was just a happy accident. She smiled at him, and the Drake gave her a long-suffering look.

“What is this about, Miss Solstice?”

“I dunno. Just a bit of city-to-city sharing, Watch Captain. Say, can I offer you a bowl of ice cream? On the house? It’s that super-expensive stuff from Terandria, apparently.”

She proffered a melty bowl of ice cream. Venim opened his mouth and hesitated.

“Wh—ice—you know that bribing an officer is a cause for offense, Miss Solstice?”

“Who said anything about bribing? I just asked if you wanted ice cream. I’ll make you pay if you want. Four silver! No, wait, two silvers? Half-off for our boys in…yellow!”

Venim tried to object, but Erin thrust the bowl into his hands. He reluctantly took the wooden spoon, ate a bit of ice cream, and the rest was history. Erin watched the bowl disappear in moments—after an obligatory pause for brain freeze—and called into the inn.

“Lyonette! Ice cream or pizza for the [Guardsmen]! And two [Guardswomen]. Priority! And get me some hamburgers!”

She hadn’t missed the looks on the City Watch’s faces, especially the Gnolls. And as the [Princess] hurried back and the [Guards] dug at their pouches, Erin turned her head. She just had one more thing to do before Rufelt and Lasica arrived. She was interrupted from asking Venim if he liked the ice cream by the panting Gnoll [Chef]. He practically shoved Venim out of the way.

“Wait, what’s a hamburger?”



——



Lorent the [Sharpener] was honing the edge of a nearly-pristine knife with a whetting stone and eying his next potential customer on the somewhat empty street. He was trying to find someone whom he’d never seen before, and who looked like they needed a good knife.

Of course, everyone needed knives, but Lorent had to admit that his business had been slow today. Not that it was ever necessarily brisk; he was resigned to that. He got a lot of his money from repeat customers, really. Still, more business would be nice. With a sigh, the Dullahan put down his blade and adjusted his head in the comfy basket he’d set up.

And then he heard the crowd. They swept down the street like a carnival in progress, only Lorent had never seen a carnival and had no idea what it was. To him, the crowd was like a mob at first, and he was grabbing his wares urgently when he saw a familiar Human waving at him.

“Here he is! Stop the door! Lorent! It’s me!”

Erin Solstice, the young woman who he’d sharpened a particularly fine kitchen knife for just last week, stopped in the street next to a…Lorent stared. He’d seen the magical door to Liscor, but the sight of a huge crowd, and the inn’s floor hovering in the air as two Drakes supported it, made the Dullahan’s stomach turn. Slowly, he picked up his head and rubbed his eyes.

“Erin Solstice?”

“That’s me! Hey! Hey, everyone! Liscor especially! This is Lorent! He’s a cool dude. Lyonette, Selys, Krshia, I told you about him. Maughin, look who it is! Lorent’s here!”

Lorent blinked. He turned his head and saw Maughin walking behind the crowd. Maughin, who was practically the most important—Lorent was bowing his head hurriedly, flushing with embarrassment. How could he have missed the Dullahan, even in the crowd? Maughin nodded back, looking amused.

Lorent was speechless, but Erin was not. She turned and waved into the door filled with Drakes and Gnolls. A lot of them were seated near the door, munching on some food out of a bowl. The rest were standing and pointing, clearly enjoying the view.

“Lorent’s a [Sharpener]. Isn’t that so cool. This is what Pallass has. Libraries, bathhouses, [Sharpeners]. Amazing.”

Some of the people on Pallass’ side of the doorway sniggered. A Drake standing in the inn looked embarrassed. She called out, leaning down to address the young woman.

“We do have [Sharpeners], in Liscor, Erin. It’s not like we haven’t heard of them.”

“Oh. Well, Lorent’s the best. By far. Hey Lorent, do your thing! I told you I’d do something fun! Now’s your chance!”

Stunned, the Dullahan stared at her. But Lorent was too good at his job to miss an opportunity like this. He whipped out his best knife and his block of wood. He called out to the crowd.

“Lorent. Dullahan. You all need knives. Better knives than the ones you have in your city. You may think you have [Sharpeners], but can they do this?”

He raised the knife, tilted it so the edge was face-up, and dropped the wooden block on it. Lorent held his breath—this trick was risky even for his best work—but it worked. The knife split the block of wood in half as it fell. The crowd, Pallassian and Liscorian both, gasped in surprise. And Lorent felt an inordinately pleased smile cross his face. He knew it was immodest to display that much emotion, but he couldn’t help it. And Erin’s beaming smile could have lit up Lorent’s shop for days.

“Anyone who wants a knife, grab ‘em and pass them through! Lorent, follow me! This door needs to go back, but you can move your shop, right?”

Lorent looked up. He took one look at the door, the Drakes and Gnolls eying his blade with the utmost appreciation, and sprinted back in his shop to grab his tools. He hurried out after Erin, part of her crowd. And it was still growing. And then one of the people Erin had been waiting for appeared. On Liscor’s side.



——



The crowd that surrounded Erin’s inn was beginning to shrink a bit. Not because of lack of interest, but rather because frustrated people who wanted to see and hear what was going on inside were squeezing into the inn, taking seats further up the common room rather than wasting time standing outside. Perhaps that was why few of them reacted to the new group that appeared out of the Floodplains. Few exclaimed to see the band of Antinium, sixty Workers and half as many Soldiers, tromping this way. True, it was an unnerving amount of Antinium to see in any one spot usually. But Liscor’s citizens had bigger things to attract their attention. And anyone who looked at the Antinium who lived in Liscor would know what they were about.

The Workers were armed with hammers, saws, nails, picks, buckets, shovels, and more tools. The Soldiers were carrying huge beams of lumber on their shoulders, or rocks. They proceeded up the hill, led by a pair of Workers. One of them paused when he saw the inn. The other, Belgrade, assumed it was normal and calmly turned to his Workers.

“The inn is currently occupied by a higher ratio of guests than normal. Begin earthworks. I will direct you to the building site in time. Eight Painted Soldiers, adopt a perimeter.”

The Workers and Soldiers spread out, placing their burdens on the ground. Eight Painted Soldiers broke off to watch for monsters as the rest grabbed digging instruments and tromped over to a smaller hill next to the one The Wandering Inn stood on. There was no hesitation, no milling about—they transitioned from walking to work in a heartbeat. Belgrade turned to Pawn.

“Perhaps we should confer with Miss Erin first?”

Pawn nodded slowly, eying the crowd around the inn.

“I think that would be wise. Lyonette did say today was the day. But maybe Erin is doing something. Let’s find out.”

The Antinium marched up to the doorway and saw it was blocked. The door was open, and filled with Gnolls and Drakes peering inside at…something. Pawn hesitated. Belgrade, with a [Tactician]’s quick thinking, raised his voice.

“Excuse me. We are here on business. Please make way. Excuse me. We are on the business of the Hive of the Free Antinium. Please make way—”

His call made those closest to the door turn. A Drake spotted the two Workers, jumped, and grabbed at his friend. A Gnoll looked around, saw Pawn and Belgrade, and laughed at his friend.

“Let them through. Hey! Move on! And now—quick! Follow them in! That’s our ticket!”

The duo enterprisingly pushed at the crowd ahead of them and were promptly rebuffed. But Pawn and Belgrade moved forwards, and the Drakes and Gnolls, seeing them, moved aside. They didn’t quite want to stand next to a Worker, but Pawn didn’t see half as many looks of disgust or horror he sometimes recalled seeing. Still, the Antinium made progress where no one else could. Pawn stared around at the packed room, somewhat dizzy from all the body heat and voices.

“What is going on? What is—”

“Ah. There.”

Belgrade grabbed his arm and pointed. Pawn saw a little Gnoll peering over one table, her tail wagging excitedly. Apista, perched on her head, took flight when Pawn and Belgrade approached, and the Ashfire Bee, who had already been given her own bubble of space, further widened it as she flew around the Antinium.

“Hello, Mrsha. We are looking for Lyonette. May we know where she is?”

Pawn greeted Mrsha. She peered at him, then pointed. Pawn saw a flash of red hair, and then another familiar young woman. Erin. He pointed, and Belgrade nodded. The two Antinium moved forwards again, towards Erin and Lyonette, who stood at the magic door. They passed by the Horns of Hammerad, who were sitting at a table.

“Good morning, Ceria, Pisces, Yvlon. Ksmvr.”

Pawn stopped to greet them, and he barely stumbled on the last name. The Horns looked up. Yvlon waved. Ksmvr hesitantly nodded at Belgrade, who paused, just staring at them. Ceria smiled.

“Hey Pawn. Some day, huh?”

“What is going on, Ceria?”

The half-Elf shrugged.

“Erin. She’s got the door open to Pallass, and everyone’s coming to look. Something to do with the election? We’re just here in case something explodes with monsters or something amazing happens.”

“And to talk to that [Mage]. Grimalkin. You said he’s a big shot, didn’t you, Pisces?”

Yvlon looked pointedly at Pisces. The [Necromancer] sniffed and folded his arms.

“He is of some renown, but infamy is a closer descriptor for his level of fame. He might be an interesting personage to converse with—”

“I saw him throw a boulder twenty feet straight up. If he can teach you to cast that spell on me and Ksmvr, you’ll call him Sir Grimalkin and treat him like an Archmage.”

Yvlon jabbed a finger at Pisces. Ksmvr raised a hand.

“I will call him Sir Grimalkin for you, Comrade Pisces. However, it seems I am disliked by Grimalkin. If you would like, I will remove myself from this room, Captain Ceria, Yvlon.”

“No way. You’re part of the team, Ksmvr. And Pisces and I can play nice. Right, Pisces?”

Pawn heard a sigh as he and Belgrade proceeded. The crowd was especially thick around Erin and Lyonette, but the two Workers simply tapped people on the shoulder and waited for them to turn around. The sight of a Worker’s mandibles, even politely smiling—was enough to make most people step back hurriedly. It didn’t work on Krshia, but only because she was conferring with Elirr and Selys.

“I have no idea what Erin is up to, yes? This is welcome—Lism has barely anyone but his supporters to shout at in Liscor, but should I begin talking about the election now?”

Selys shook her head.

“Better not. It’s not the right mood, and Erin’ll probably give you a signal. I have the you-know-what armor in my bag of holding, and I’m not sure when I’ll show it to the [Smiths]. That Maughin guy? We just have to wait and see.”

Then she caught sight of Pawn and Belgrade. Selys paused, and then a smile came over her face. Elirr sniffed the air before he saw the Antinium. The [Beast Trainer] turned and grinned.

“I think I begin to see part of Miss Solstice’s plan, Krshia. Look.”

The Gnoll [Shopkeeper] turned around. Krshia paused. Then, silently, she pulled the Gnolls in front of her out of the way. Mystified, Pawn walked forwards. Belgrade just marched towards the door. Erin turned and saw them. She spread her arms, stepping around the door. Pawn stared, fascinated, through it. Was that Pallass on the other side? He’d never seen it. Erin walked in front of them and gave the two Workers a hug.

“Belgrade! Pawn! Just the Antinium I wanted to see!”

“Miss Erin. Miss Lyonette. We are here to begin construction on the inn and surrounding area as Revalantor Klbkch promised. However, the crowd around your inn will obstruct our building. We may even have to remove a substantial piece of the inn—the damage to the second floor is substantial, and the third floor likewise, and we would like to remodel some key components of the structure—”

He got no further, because as he was turning and Erin stepped aside to let Lyonette come forwards and join the discussion, Pawn suddenly had an unobstructed view of Pallass and the crowd of people on the other side. And they had the same view of him. For a moment, Pawn saw a bunch of curious faces, chatting, talking, sampling hamburgers, and for some reason, a Dullahan sharpening a bunch of knives on the ground—and then their faces all turned to horror.

“Antinium! Run for your lives!”

A Drake in a velvet dress recoiled and screamed. Half the crowd screamed with her. Several eyes rolled up in their heads, and the Gnoll [Chef] fainted into Venim’s grasp. The rest of the crowd turned and tried to run. The Pallassian [Guardsmen] at the door whirled, spotted the Antinium, and grabbed their weapons. They formed a wall as Watch Captain Venim recoiled. But it was Erin who whirled, a gleam in her eye, and bellowed with her [Loud Voice] Skill.

“STOP!”

The word had more force behind it than just volume. As one, the crowd halted in their tracks, shaking loose the almost primal fear that had gripped them. Erin clenched her fist.

“[Crowd Control]—Venim, don’t let them run! They’ll get hurt!”

The Watch Captain had the same thought. He turned and bellowed, thrusting an arm in front of Kel, who was about to make a run at Pawn and Belgrade through the door.

“Order! No one move! The situation is under control! Guardsmen, do not advance! Hold your ground!”

The panicked crowd stopped, held by both Venim and Erin’s Skills and authority. The Pallassian City Watch held their ground, staring at the two Workers and clutching their weapons with white-knuckled grips. The only people not frozen in this tableau were Maughin, who looked only mildly alarmed, Grimalkin, who looked mildly disgusted, and Lorent, who had looked up once warily and then went back to sharpening his knives.

And of course, everyone on Liscor’s side of the door. Bemused, Krshia, Selys, Elirr, and hundreds of Liscor’s citizens watched as Venim kept shouting for order. They stared at the Workers. Someone—the Gnoll [Hunter]—laughed nervously.

“It’s just two Workers. It’s not like it’s an army of Soldiers, right?”

Everyone in earshot nodded, including Selys. Her eyes flicked to Erin. The young woman was standing in front of Pawn and Belgrade, and only from behind could you see Erin’s hand was on her kitchen knife. But the smile she gave Venim as he rounded on her was saccharine.

“What is the meaning of—”

“They’re Workers, Venim. Antinium Workers. Pawn and Belgrade. They’ve come to work on my inn. Rebuild it after the Goblin Lord—no, those Human jerks—blew up the top of my inn. It’s completely legal. They’re in Liscor. They’re not trying to cross into Pallass. They’re just here. There’s no problem, except if Pallass’ citizens panic.”

Venim stared at Erin. His arm tensed—he was gripping his sword hilt.

“The Antinium have been under a non-aggression pact with the Walled Cities for ten years. However, their presence in any lands controlled by Pallass is an act of hostility—”

“Not Pallass. Liscor. You don’t like it? Close the door.”

Erin met Venim’s gaze, and hers was suddenly electric. She glared across four hundred miles, and the look in her eyes was suddenly direct. Challenging. And scornful. The Drake’s jaw tightened. He put his hand on the door to do just that. He began to swing it closed, never looking away from Erin’s gaze. And to stop him, she spoke two words.

“Scaredy cat.”

The door halted halfway. It opened, and Venim’s eyes locked on Erin’s.

“What was that?”

Erin raised her hands, giving him a not-so-innocent roll of the eyes.

“Nothing. I just thought you were brave enough to look at a bunch of Antinium. They won’t cross through the door. But hey, if that’s too much for you, go ahead.”

If it were possible for Pallass’ City Watch to get even more hostile, they did. Venim’s claws tightened on the door’s edge. He clenched his teeth so hard that Erin could have sworn she heard a crack. He stared daggers at Pawn and Belgrade. Belgrade waved hesitantly. Venim glanced at Erin.

“If they so much as cross over the line—”

He was not prepared for the finger that came through the portal and grabbed the collar of his armor. Erin yanked, and Venim stumbled forwards a step before he caught himself. She leaned forwards, glaring at him nose-to-nostrils.

“If they cross the line, it’s an accident. And if they do, you’d better think twice about stabbing them. Because until they do something wrong, they’re Liscor’s citizens. And if you stab them first, you’re breaking the law.”

She met Venim’s eyes, and then let go. He gaped at her as she pulled herself back. The crowd stared. The Drake to Venim’s left raised his spear.

“Assaulting a Watch Captain—”

“Shut up, Kel!”

Erin stepped back and folded her arms. She waited, daring Venim. But he didn’t take her up on it. He looked at the door, clearly regretting not slamming it, then whirled and marched back without another word. The [Guardsmen] glanced at each other uncertainly. Erin glared.

“Step back.”

They did not. Erin’s glare only went so far. But the scene had stemmed the flight of Pallass’ crowd. And they did come back, although this time it was to stare in disgust as Pawn and Belgrade moved backwards. Lyonette whispered to Pawn and Belgrade.

“Go do your construction. Don’t worry about this. We’ll handle it.”

Both Workers nodded. They pushed back through the crowd as a Dullahan spat on the ground in front of the door. She coldly lifted her head, making eye contact with everyone around her to prove just how offended she was. She pointed at the backs of the Workers.

“You let Antinium into your inn? This inn is foul. Disgusting. I regret eating any of the food there.”

“Me too!”

One of the Drakes looked close to being sick. He gagged. On the other side of the door, Liscor’s citizens looked bemused. Even insulted. A Gnoll growled, shaking his head.

“Why are you panicking? There were two of them. There are hundreds of you. And us! They’re not even the scary Antinium, you know? Workers. And besides, the Free Antinium, they’re part of our city. You do know that, right?”

He peered at another Gnoll standing in the crowd. She sniffed the air and recoiled. She growled back.

“Well, of course, we know that. It’s history, no? But—Ancestors, I’ve never seen one before.” She shuddered. The Drake lady wearing velvet nodded.

“I’m shaking.”

She held out a claw to demonstrate. Selys snorted at the slight tremor in her hands. She wasn’t alone. That needled the Pallassian Drake. She narrowed her eyes at Selys.

“How can you live with those things in your city? Are you all insane?”

That stung. The [Receptionist] lifted her head and retorted angrily.

“Just like you live with Gnolls—or Garuda or Dullahans! They’re not a threat!”

Her words provoked a ripple of incredulity, and outrage from the Garuda and Dullahans in the crowd. Someone actually shook a fist at Selys. The Gnoll [Chef], who’d been revived, got to his feet, shaking his head.

“Just as mad as I heard. Liscor. Really? Even those Drowned People that visit Zeres have to be better than Antinium. By far.”

“Madness. They’re touched in the head!”

Someone else agreed. Selys gasped. She looked around and saw Krshia had gone stiff. Elirr frowned, his normally kind face turning dark. And they weren’t the only ones. Every Drake around Selys stiffened, and the Gnolls bared their teeth. As one, Liscor’s citizens felt the same thing.

Outrage. A Drake with a scar on his chin leaned forwards, putting his head through the door to snap back.

“We’re mad? Says the lot who can’t tell a Worker apart from a Soldier and run screaming at the sight of two!”

“Who needs to tell them apart? Who would let them into a city? Or walk down the same street as one?”

“Anyone who has a Hive in theirs, that’s who! They don’t just attack people out of the blue! They’re our Antinium. And I’ll have you know that we haven’t had any incidents with ours in years. The last Aberration that appeared—”

“Aberration? Dead gods. What do they even do? Collect refuse? Dig?”

“They build.”

Selys snapped back. The Pallassians scoffed—Selys wanted to curse at them. She saw Belgrade moving back around the side of the crowd, and Lyonette hurrying over. The Worker bobbed his head deferentially.

“Excuse me, Miss Lyonette. We need to take down this wall to finish repairs on the side of the inn.”

“What? Really? Uh—”

“Do it!”

Erin shouted over the heads of the crowd. Belgrade nodded. He turned his head and signaled with three of his four arms—and the far wall came down. Two dozen Antinium Workers ­pulled the wall out as Soldiers positioned pillars of wood and scaffolding under the ceiling, which creaked but didn’t fall in. The move was so sudden that even Liscor’s citizens recoiled.

“Dead gods!”

Belgrade walked past the crowd as they drew back from the sudden opening. Selys blinked into the sunlight now shining into the building. Even Erin’s jaw dropped. But the Antinium didn’t hesitate. They took apart the far wall as if there was nothing to it. And of course—they’d built it. But it was incredible to see them just bring it down. But more Workers were already rushing forwards. Belgrade stood in front of the new construction area and raised his voice.

“Excuse me. Stand back, please. We are going to begin construction in this area. Anyone in this area may suffer the risk of death. Thank you.”

After one second to digest that, the Gnolls and Drakes on the perimeter moved back. Selys saw some of the people outside watching the Antinium work, or peering inside to finally get a glimpse of Pallass. And around the wall and inn, the Antinium began reconstructing the inn.

Temporary support beams were already in place, and the Antinium were swarming on the second and third floors. One of them was pulling up floorboards to get to a damaged beam with a few cracks in it, while another was already messing with the stone foundations of the inn below. And more—they were digging up earth in a huge flurry, Workers and Soldiers, and behind them, Antinium were laying stones down, creating a larger foundation.

Selys stared along with Krshia and Elirr. It was all so efficient. The Antinium had no concept of personal space or the need to verbally coordinate or get on the same page. They had Workers replacing floorboards, refitting a cracked windowpane, while below them their comrades began replacing parts of the ceiling of the common room, replacing a support beam.

And only when they needed to do the swap did the Antinium on the second floor disappear—and then only for a second while Soldiers held up the roof with temporary supports and their own strength and the Workers replaced the crucial pillar of the inn in a moment.

“It is just reconstruction of the existing inn template for now. We are performing foundational work, but the expansions you requested will not come until later. Revalantor Klbkch also mentioned the issue of payment in installations.”

Belgrade calmly informed Lyonette. She nodded, staring as a Worker emerged from a hole in the ground, and another piled in a crude cement and more stones. Selys saw the Antinium abandon the replaced support pillar and jumped.

“Ancestors. Are they building the wall back right there?”

Every head turned. The wall was going up piece by piece within seconds. The Antinium, having completed their work, were putting it back just as fast as it had gone down. Selys turned her head to stare through the door when she heard someone mutter an oath. The Gnoll [Chef] was staring in awe and fear at all the black and brown bodies.

“They can build that fast?”

The Liscorian [Hunter] snorted. He pointed at a Worker with a hammer striking nails into the wood with two or three strokes at most. Copper—Selys noted that with a frown.

“Of course. They’re our Antinium. Fastest builders in the world. I’ve seen them put a house up in the time it took me to have my lunch break. We have this plan, you know, to expand Liscor. With Antinium Workers, we could have a new section of the city done before next spring, and cheaply too!”

“What? You do?”

Selys jumped. She looked around and saw Krshia’s head turn fast enough to crick. The Drake nodded. A Gnoll by his side tapped him on the shoulder uncertainly. She coughed, and then growled, looking at the Antinium.

“That’s not all set in stone. If Lism wins, he’ll have us build the city ourselves. Jobs for everyone. And there’s what he’s said about the dangers of the Hive—”

The [Hunter] rolled his eyes. He pointed impatiently back at the wall, which was nearly completely whole again.

“Come on now. How many high-level [Builders] did we ever have in the city? How many does Pallass have? The Antinium are like thousands of Level 20 [Builders] who work for copper where most Drakes would charge silver. Look at that!”

The last part of the wall went into place, and the Antinium Workers calmly walked out the door while more headed upstairs with boards of wood. A few people whistled—the Gnoll looked uncertain. Someone else in front of Selys leaned over and conferred with the Drake next to her.

“Makes you think, doesn’t it? But hey—I can tell this was planned. It doesn’t mean that Lism isn’t right—”

“Yeah, but look at them. You think we could get a crew of Gnolls and Drakes to build a bunch of houses that fast? The lazy slugs I work with? Not a chance. And I mean, they’ve been here in the city for ten years, right? When have they done anything, aside from the odd Aberration?”

“I’m just saying, I don’t trust the Grand Queen. They’re our Antinium, but—”

Heads turned back to Pallass. The velvet Drake was shaking her head.

“Appalling. Just appalling. Imagine living in a building built by one of them? I need to have a lie down.”

That was it. Selys opened her mouth to snap, and someone beat her to it. The Drake with the chin scar.

“Aw, eat your tail. They’re better than any [Builders] you have, I’ll bet! And our Antinium work fast and cheap!”

“That’s right!”

Liscor’s citizens shouted agreement and insults through the door. Pallass’ people just looked incredulous, but Selys wasn’t the only one to proudly look over her shoulder at the Antinium. For the first time in her life, perhaps. But if there was any time to be proud, it was now. They might be Antinium. But they were Liscor’s Antinium, damn it!

Selys felt vindicated just watching the stunned looks on the faces of the Pallassians as three Soldiers carried a replacement support beam in and inserted it into place in less than a minute.

“Mad. Don’t keep talking to them, Miss Volpel, just leave them.”

The Gnoll [Chef] was urging those around him back. Already, the edges of the crowd were marching away, tails stiff with disgust. Selys welcomed that, but again, Erin slid into the conversation from the side. She waved, smiling in that fake-innocent look she’d been putting on since this morning.

“See you! Come visit the inn if you want to! Don’t be strangers! Hey! Lorent! Why don’t you come into the inn to work on those knives? You can talk to your clients. And Maughin, Grimalkin, Relc, and Bealt! Get over here! I want you to watch one of our plays!”

Four heads turned in the crowd, against the flow of bodies away. And like stones in the way of a river, they halted the flow of traffic. Especially Maughin. He looked uncertainly at Erin. She waved at him.

“Come on! Hey, have you ever seen a play?”

“A…children’s game?”

The Dullahan [Armorer] frowned. Erin winked at Relc. The [Guardsman] was pulling Grimalkin forwards.

“No, a play. By the Players of Celum! Temile! You’re up! Go for it!”

Erin turned her head. And on stage, the Players of Celum, who had watched the drama while waiting for their own, sprang into action. It was Temile himself, dressed as Benvolio, who strutted out from behind the curtain and delivered the opening lines of an iconic play. One Selys had seen three times, incidentally. She could have recited the words by heart.



“Two households, both alike in dignity, In fair Verona, where we lay our scene, From ancient grudge break to new mutiny, Where civil blood makes civil hands unclean!”



Perhaps it was nerves, or perhaps it was Temile’s own burgeoning sense as an [Actor] that made him bellow the lines. But it worked. The crowd in Pallass looked back. You could hear the Shakespearian verse, the iambic pentameter in the air. You could practically see it. Maughin stepped forwards, frowning.

“What was that?”



“From forth the fatal loins of these two foes A pair of star-cross’d lovers take their life; Whose misadventured piteous overthrows Do with their death bury their parents’ strife!”



Temile shouted the second sentence, face somehow conspiring to be both red and white as the Dullahan stared at him. He delivered the rest of the prologue and turned, walked straight off the stage, and then a very nervous Sampson and Gregory, both Drakes, entered from stage left. Erin just smiled up at Maughin.

“It’s a play. A story told on the stage with [Actors]. Haven’t you seen something like it?”

“On Baleros. We have something similar. Among Dullahans. But I’ve never seen anything like it in a Drake city. What did he say? The language is—”

Maughin wavered at the entrance. Grimalkin had already gone through. Grimacing, the [Mage] put a hand on the door and grunted—Relc clambered through along with Bealt. Behind Maughin, all of the Dullahans paused and turned their heads back to look. The Drake lady paused.

“What? What about the language? And what did that Human shout?”

“He’s blocking the view. What is he looking at?”

Curiosity killed the cat. Or Drakes. And perhaps just Pallassians in general. They were residents of the City of Invention, after all; if they didn’t love new and interesting things, they’d be Salazsar’s folk. A Drake woman called out loudly, waving a claw around Maughin’s armored body.

“Oh, that. Just a play. We have them all the time in the inn. My nephew’s one of the [Actors], you know. He’s playing Mercutio. But I’ve seen Juliet and Romeo about a dozen times now.”

“Playing? [Actors]? Wait, explain this.”

“Coming?”

Erin teased Maughin. The Dullahan hesitated. He looked over at the crowd, who seemed to be wavering between staying or leaving as well. Erin pursed her lips, eyed them, and then grinned.

“It’s a great play. Promise. Oh. And Selys has the Heartflame Breastplate. You wanted to see it, right?”

Maughin froze. He stared down at Erin. She smiled at him, then glanced over her shoulder.

“Selys?”

The Drake jumped. She’d nearly forgotten her role! But now was the time, and what a time for it! Selys reached into her bag of holding, felt the warm metal, pulled it out, and there it was. The glow prompted a gasp from the people around her.

Maughin’s head fell off his shoulders. He caught it before it hit the ground, gaping. Erin laughed.

“Don’t be surprised! I told you that you could see it! And I didn’t lie! Selys owns it. And if you want to see it—the Heartflame Breastplate—come on through!”

Her voice was perfectly pitched to be heard all down Pallass’ streets. And if there was any line to pull them back, it was that. The Pallassians—Drakes especially—flooded back around the door in a moment.

“Wait, what?”

“Did she say—”

“Who’s that Drake? Does she know General Shivertail somehow? How would she have—”

“The Heartflame Breastplate.”

Someone pointed. Selys heard a gasp from the other side, and then a susurration. She held it up, her arms trembling with the weight of it. Maughin looked from side to side. Pallass’ City Watch still had their weapons ready. They gazed in awe at the armor, and then uncertainly at Maughin. The Dullahan bit his lip, but decided himself in an instant.

“Excuse me. I’m going through. I believe I was invited.”

He stepped through the doorway. Kel, the angry [Guardsman], half-tried to stop him, but no force on earth could have halted Maughin. And indeed, the glow of the legendary armor as Selys put it on a table was hypnotizing. Almost as much as the words rolling off the stage as the Players of Celum shouted their lines, vying for attention.

And Erin? She looked from Maughin, reverentially approaching the armor with his head under his arm, to the Pallassians, their objection about the Antinium forgotten for a second, and then to the people in the inn. She raised a hand and pointed.

“Hey! Can we move the door so they can see the play? If they want to, of course. Ishkr! Get some popcorn for the people of Pallass. Anyone who wants food? We’ve got food! We’ll put some chairs here so we can chat between Liscor and Pallass. And then—”

“Quiet offstage!”

Relc bellowed at Erin. She winced. He was sitting at the front with Grimalkin, pointing at the [Actors]. She lowered her voice and stage-whispered to Pallass.

“Well? Anyone leaving or staying? Did I mention we have blue fruit juice? And I could make a milkshake!”

And she had them cold. The Drakes stared at the armor of their people. The Gnolls sniffed the air hungrily and eyed the stage. The Dullahans looked to Maughin and the armor. The Garuda looked at the blue fruit drinks. The residents of Pallass looked at the Antinium workers. At the stage. At Maughin, and the brilliant, flame-gold armor that was the center of attention from Liscor’s own crowd. Then the Gnoll [Chef] raised a tentative paw. He gulped as every eye turned towards him, but met Erin’s gaze. He grinned weakly.

“Can I come through?”



——



Half an hour had passed since someone got word to Rufelt that the young woman, the Human [Innkeeper] from Liscor, was up to something. He didn’t get much from the Street Runner who’d been paid in silver to relay the gossip. Only that Erin had gone to Liscor with Maughin and Grimalkin, then returned, and she was causing a fuss.

Even with that heads up, it still took twenty minutes for Rufelt to grab his wife from her shopping at the bazaar on the first floor and make the trip up to the eighth floor and the magic door. They took the elevators, of course, and Rufelt, mindful of what might be going on, urged Lasica into a run. But even then, the panting [Chef] and [Barkeep] duo were still far, far too late.

Or just in time. Because the furor around the door to Liscor hadn’t died down. If anything, it had grown larger. So large that it took five minutes just for the married couple to push into the crowd and see what was going on. And then? They stopped and listened awhile.

On a stage, a Gnoll dressed as Romeo stood with a Gnollish Mercutio. In the background, a fabled piece of armor was being inspected by a Dullahan who held it as carefully as a wounded dove. Gnolls and Drakes circulated the tables with food, all unknown even to Lasica. And some stopped by the door, exchanging their food for coin with the audience. In the background, black-bodied Antinium occasionally trooped up and down the stairs, with tools in hand, or paused to stare at the play.

And in the center of it—Rufelt’s eyes found Erin Solstice at once. He could feel her, in an eddy of attention and emotion. She had caused this. He pointed her out to his wife. Lasica leaned on Rufelt’s shoulder, wondering.

“Is this really the same young woman we met, Rufelt?”

“She looks the same, dear. But she did this. I’ll bet my teeth on it.”

“By herself? No—look at that armor. Maughin, Grimalkin—I can see how, but even then—could you do this?”

“If I had to. But I would have to try hard. Look. She even has Watch Captain Venim eating at one table.”

“Incredible.”

Lasica shook her head as she saw Venim sitting at a table. He seemed equal parts annoyed and confused, but he was there. Rufelt met his wife’s gaze. They both started for the door, but a spear blocked their path.

“No entry to the inn. The door’s nearly out of magic.”

A tired voice and surly Drake confronted them. Rufelt eyed Guardsman Kel, and instantly felt someone push at his back.

“Hey!”

He turned, annoyed. A shorter Drake glared up at him.

“Hey yourself! Move! We’re trying to watch the play!”

The crowd voiced their annoyed agreement. Rufelt hesitated. He saw Erin’s head turn, and the young woman locked eyes with him. Her face lit up.

“Rufelt! Lasica! Just the last two people I need for my pl—er, my best friends! Come on through! Kel, they’re with me.”

“What? You can’t just—”

“Can and do! My door! My guests! Sorry folks, they’re VIPs.”

“What? Can you eat that?”

“Let me through! I’ll pay! I’ll—”

Rufelt took Erin’s hand and stepped through the door. Lasica followed, and the door suddenly went dark behind them. Erin sighed. There was a murmur of protest from the seats around her. Rufelt saw a group of Drakes and Gnolls were sitting with drinks and foods, staring through the doorway with as much intensity as the Pallassian citizens had been. Erin waved a hand in apology.

“Sorry, folks. We’ll get a [Mage] to fix it! Rufelt, Lasica, this way—hey, Grimalkin?”

“I have it.”

The [Sinew Magus] pushed himself up from a table and walked over. He slapped the door tiredly and it flickered back to life. Grimalkin winced. He rubbed at his back, looking uncharacteristically tired. Rufelt just blinked at him. He knew Grimalkin, of course, but what was he doing here? Erin’s smile of gratitude was accompanied by a slap on the back.

“Thank you! Sorry about asking for it so much.”

“This is for the weights. I’m not doing this twice. I have my limits, you know. You still need to show me these dumbells.”

Grimalkin sighed. Erin nodded rapidly as he went back to sit down next to Relc. Rufelt turned around and saw a bunch of Pallass’ citizens arguing with Kel on the other side. Watch Captain Venim got up from his table.

“Everything alright, Guardsman Kel?”

“Can’t you get someone to add more magic to this door, Watch Captain?”

A Garuda demanded as she flapped up from the crowd. She pointed at the door as the crowd voiced their agreement.

“You’re a Watch Captain. Aren’t we allowed free passage into that city? We have hundreds of [Mages] in the army and City Watch! Call some over here! It’s a public service!”

“The door is extremely mana-intensive—”

“Well, we’re missing the play! And food! Miss Innkeeper! Why haven’t we been allowed to use the door before now?”

She glared at Erin, snapping her beak. Erin shrugged.

“Hey, you know, it’s not my fault. I was totally for people coming through. But no one wanted to, from Liscor or Pallass. Weird. And I had no idea you had to pay fifty gold or something to go through. But that’s what your Assembly of Crafts came up with, right?”

“They did?”

Erin winked at Rufelt. He blinked, amazed. Lasica was still just looking around. Erin led them away from the door and towards the kitchen, which had a steady stream of people coming in and out. She turned to them, her expression radiant.

“I’m so glad you guys made it! I was thinking you wouldn’t notice!”

“It’s fairly hard to miss when a Human spirits away our best [Blacksmith]. This is fairly incredible, Erin. But what’s this all about?”

“Oh, just helping out a few friends. Hey, Lasica! Welcome to my inn! First time, huh? Like it? The Antinium just rebuilt part of it. Sit down, sit down! Anything you want’s on the house, for all the times you invited me to your inn!”

“Erin.”

Lasica opened her mouth. She leaned back as Erin waved, and a Gnoll scooted over with two bowls of…white, solidified cream? Rufelt took it and bit into it. His eyes went wide. Lasica took her bowl, put it down, and then looked at Erin.

“I take it back. You’re no magical innkeeper. You’re an expert on crowds. I feel silly treating you like an amateur. This is incredible.”

“Aw, Lasica! It’s good to see you too.”

Erin reached out to hug the [Chef]. Lasica blocked her with a claw. She looked at the bowl.

“And what is this?”

“Ice cream. Told you I could make it.”

Erin proudly puffed out her chest. Rufelt nearly choked on the sweets. Lasica just blinked.

“You made the dish from Terandria that we couldn’t get the recipe for? Just like that.”

“I told you I could.”

“And I didn’t believe you. Ancestors. Alright.”

Lasica blinked at the bowl, eyed the melted bit of ice cream at the bottom, then stuck a spoon into her mouth. She didn’t immediately scarf the sweet food down like Rufelt—he loved it and was trying not to lick his bowl clean. Lasica’s brows shot up with the clinical detachment of a food connoisseur.

“Geh. You Humans really do like sugar in everything. But it’s good. Yes. Hard to pair with most dishes, though. Definitely a dessert. Rufelt?”

“I can put this with a drink. Or maybe in a drink.”

The Gnoll eyed Lasica’s bowl. Silently, she passed it over. He savored the next spoonful, but then grew thoughtful.

“It would make a fantastic mix-drink. With something spicy? No…something with some impact to counteract the powerful sweet and milk flavor. This is a milk product, right?”

“You two are so smart! And yeah! This would be a perfect root beer float! …Please tell me you have root beer.”

Erin beamed at Rufelt and Lasica. They caught themselves, looking at her. Rufelt let out a breath he felt like he’d been holding since he saw the inn through the door; Lasica blinked around and rubbed her eyes. Then they started over.

“Erin, this is simply incredible. Confusing, but incredible. You have to explain what happened. In order?”

“Well, I just decided I needed to help out my friend. So I thought—hey! If I grab Maughin and bring him to Liscor, something’s going to happen. I actually planned for you and Rufelt, but everything else is just me winging it.”

“Doing what exactly? And how can we help? You seem to have stirred up a huge amount of guests for your inn by yourself. Is that your bar? Mind if I have a look later?”

The Gnoll leaned over the table. Erin matched his grin.

“Be my guest! And I have some blue fruit juice I want you to take a look at! Lasica, you need to try my pizza, hamburger, uh, french fries…it’s not gourmet stuff like your cooking, but it’s good!”

“And you pulled in all these people with those plays you mentioned. And the Heartflame Breastplate.”

Lasica looked at the radiant piece of armor that Maughin was still poring over with a crowd of [Smiths]. The young woman shrugged.

“I don’t do subtlety. I tossed everything I had—okay, nearly everything. Hey Lasica, want to try it on after Maughin looks at it?”

The [Chef] had been trying very hard not to be swept away. But this time her jaw dropped. Erin twinkled with delight. Rufelt looked at her, leaning back in his chair, and got the definite impression this was payback for his first whirlwind tour of Pallass with her. He nudged Lasica.

“I’m sure she’d be delighted. But Erin, why is this happening? Don’t tell me this was a lark. I can feel your intention in this inn. From [Barkeeper] to [Innkeeper], what’s our place in this?”

He met Erin’s gaze over the tabletop. She paused. And then jerked her head.

“This way. I want you to listen to this.”

She led the Drake and Gnoll from their table at the back to the bar. It was overflowing with people along with the rest of the common room, but the crowd around the bar wasn’t one of the groups watching the play, the armor, or the door to Pallass. This group seemed intent on a cluster of Gnolls in the center. One of them, a female with a striking jawline, gave Rufelt the definite impression of command.

Joy. A Tribal Gnoll. Female too. Probably a local pack leader. Rufelt controlled his grimace and nudged Lasica, pointing out the speaking Gnoll. Lasica picked up on some of Rufelt’s unspoken commentary and turned her head to listen to the Gnoll as Erin led them through the crowd. The Gnoll’s voice reached them, half-shouting just to be heard over the background noise and the play.

“This is proof, yes? Proof that what Liscor has to offer is our bond with the Antinium! Do you really think anyone but them could build part of the city as quickly as we need it?”

“I hear you, Krshia, but I’m still not sure on the safety of the city. It seems like we’re making a lot of concessions to the Antinium we don’t need to. I admit, the sight of those Workers doing their job so well gave me something to think about. But don’t you feel bought and sold?”

A Drake was debating with Krshia at the bar. The Gnoll turned to him, and Elirr jumped in, smooth as could be.

“Bought and sold, Mister Deik? How do you mean? The Antinium want something, and we could use their gold. This is an exchange if anything. A transaction. And like any transaction, there is room to negotiate. What bothers you the most? Just the fact that the Antinium would get something for defending our city? Are we really exposing our city to that much danger by allowing a few guests in? Expanding the Hive? Allowing Painted Soldiers to serve on the Watch?”

“Huh. Well, I think expanding the Hive is my biggest problem—”

“If we curtailed their expansion to a few hundred feet, would that do? What’s the problem? The Antinium are willing to offer more for less. It’s good faith. Or is this just Lism’s paranoia we’re all believing here? What will satisfy? Or is it just fear that holds us back?”

Krshia looked around. The crowd murmured thoughtfully. There were just as many Drakes as Gnolls, but Rufelt, picking up on the dynamic, thought that the Gnolls were mainly on Krshia’s side. He saw her look up and bare her teeth at Erin as the young woman approached. Then she looked at him, sniffed, and lowered her head in an authoritative nod.

Definitely a Tribal Gnoll. Rufelt tried not to let that color his judgment. He waited as Erin introduced them.

“Krshia, these are two great people you have to meet. Rufelt and Lasica. They will want to hear what you’re saying.”

“Really? Oh, and pleased to meet you.”

Lasica raised her eyebrow at Erin as she held out a claw to shake. Krshia politely shook hers and then Rufelt’s.

“A pleasure. But these two are from Pallass, unless my nose betrays me, Erin. What can I offer them?”

All three looked at Erin, perplexed. The [Innkeeper] shook her head as if it were obvious.

“You’re all in the same boat, of course! Don’t you see? I figured it out when I was thinking of how to help you, Krshia. Think about it. Well, actually, I’ll explain. Lasica and Rufelt here are part of the, uh, Unitail group. You know how Pallass has elections? They want to vote out the Protectorate and make Pallass more open and friendly.”

“Not necessarily friendly. But more open. We disagreed with how they handled the Siege of Liscor, and they don’t support free trade. As businesspeople, we object to that.”

Lasica quickly clarified. Krshia nodded.

“I’m a [Shopkeeper] myself. I value goods sent Pallass’ way. But you two aren’t [Senators], are you?”

That made Rufelt and Lasica grin. He shook his head.

“Call us the people who back [Senators]. They get our support and we get them to vote the way we want. That’s how a democracy works.”

Erin nodded.

“And guess what Liscor’s going to have soon? An election for the Council.”

“What?”

That threw Rufelt. He blinked at Erin, and then his gaze narrowed.

“So you’re—”

“I suggested the elections, yes. And if I win, which is not so likely, I might be the first Gnoll on Liscor’s Council.”

Krshia bared her teeth. Lasica’s eyes widened. She looked from Rufelt to Krshia, and then to Erin. Then she snapped her claws.

“The first Gnoll? Democracy in Liscor? Why haven’t we heard of this?”

“Probably because news is just spreading today. You’d hear of it later. But Krshia’s been having a hard time because the Antinium are backing her, and there’s this jerk who’s running against her. He’s a Drake.”

“Lism. If it weren’t for Olesm joining him, he would have no platform. And his arguments make sense, yet they play on fear! And we’re tied to the Antinium now. He stole my platform, my ideas—I have a plan to make the city expand! And that tailless—”

Krshia uttered the word like a curse. Erin hurried to speak over her before the Gnoll could begin a rant.

“Sure, sure. And Lism totally loves Humans, Dullahans, and Garuda. And Pallass. Liscor should build itself and all that! You know what? He’s probably like the Protectorate, isn’t he? He went to Pallass to ask for funds to build Liscor. So you’re paying for it.”

She eyed the owners of Tails and Scales meaningfully. Lasica folded her arms.

“I didn’t hear about that. Liscor’s getting our tax money? When the Antinium would give the money instead? That’s not going to be popular when word gets out. And, oh, it will get out. Believe me. Tonight it’ll be shouted from the rooftops.”

She gave Rufelt a significant glance. He felt a huge smile spreading from ear to ear. Erin was nodding.

“But that’s not all. Since Pallass is having an election, and Liscor is too—I was thinking, why not bring up that Pallass is backing the non-Gnoll candidate? I’m sure that’ll go over really well. Especially with that jerk [Senator].”

“Errif Jealwind? That would bother his voters.”

Lasica drummed her claws on the table, thinking fast. Rufelt, meanwhile, was catching onto more of what Erin wanted. He eyed Krshia.

“And what if the Unitail faction were to propose a trade deal with Liscor? Closer ties? With, say, the provision that Krshia Silverfang were on Liscor’s Council? Is that what you want, Erin?”

“Maybe…look, I’m just an innocent [Innkeeper]. I don’t know about politics. But it just occurs to me that Krshia might get a lot of support from Gnolls in Pallass. And Pallass might benefit from allies in Liscor.”

“From liking Liscor, you mean. And Liscor would certainly value its Humans and Antinium if they see how valuable our one Human is, yes? With pizza, ice cream, plays, and so forth.”

Krshia folded her arms. She looked at Erin and shook her head.

“This was your plan? It is cunning beyond belief.”

“Hey! I just thought it’d be nice to open up Pallass. Impress them with Liscor. And I knew Maughin was cool. I met Grimalkin…I forgot Belgrade was going to upgrade the inn, and I knew Lorent…our cities should like each other, right?”

Erin spread her hands. Then she looked around.

“It’s like playing two chess boards at once. Except I’m taking pieces off one side to use on the other. Simple, right?”

She waggled her eyebrows. Rufelt looked at Krshia. The Gnoll gave him a slight shake of the head. Lasica just laughed. She glanced at her husband, and they shared an unspoken question. Rufelt broke the gaze by nodding slightly. Lasica stood up.

“I’m for it. Krshia, let’s have a talk. Tell me exactly about this plan, and I’ll tell you about the Unitail [Senators] we know. Maybe we can have you visit Pallass tonight? Or send a few [Messages] at least. I need to know about your campaign—ah, Ancestors—how are you managing this election? I’m no expert, but I know experts. We’ve been doing this in Pallass forever.”

“I’ll help over here. Listen—sway a few minds.”

Rufelt got to his feet. He looked at the crowd as Lasica stepped to a free table with Krshia, and slid behind the bar in a moment. He checked the alcohol, found a glass—Erin had a very small variety of liquor. None of it particularly good!

He made a note to have a word with her about her selection and eyed his crowd. He saw that Elirr and another Gnoll who looked like a [Blacksmith] were talking to the crowd. They turned as Erin trotted over and blinked at Rufelt. He raised a paw, smiling.

“Let me get you all a drink. Erin, I’ll borrow your bar. Hm. Blue fruit juice, huh?”

Rufelt filled a mug with the sweet juice and tasted it. He frowned, grabbed another cup, and filled it. He splashed a shot of rum into the blue fruit juice and swirled the drink.

“Not bad. But let’s add something to it. What’s it like cold? [Chill Paws].”

The glass frosted over as he touched it. Erin whistled—Rufelt just eyed the slushy. It needed a straw in his professional opinion. Or a spoon. Too much sweet as well; he’d normally cut something bitter with the sweet. This would be good for anyone with a sweet tooth. But it would do. Rufelt looked up at the admiring crowd, who’d stopped to watch him work. He winked.

“Barkeep from Tails and Scales of Pallass. Rufelt. If you have a drink, shout it out! I can mix anything—provided Miss Erin’s got the liquor. This is on the house for…”

He paused, searching the crowd. Let’s see. Who needed a shot of the silver tongue? Ah, of course. Rufelt muttered a word. Then he flicked the drink. The frozen slurry shot across the bar at Elirr, who blinked as it landed in his open paw. The [Beast Trainer] raised the glass almost unconsciously, and Rufelt nodded to Erin. She nodded back. He winked.

“Not a bad plan, Miss Solstice, not a bad plan at all.”

“It was just vague. And it came together with luck. But I like to think I know people. It’s not about the plan. It’s about tossing the right people together. If you do that—hey! You never know what’ll happen next.”

Erin laughed. Rufelt just shook his head in amazement. He mixed another drink, casually doing a trick where he kept two different liquids separate with the aid of a spoon. No Skill there. Then he snapped his fingers and lit the top of the drink on fire. That was for the show.

Heads turned, and the [Barkeep] saw the flow of the inn divert towards him, another eddy in the swirl of attention. And if Erin saw the ‘right people’ and how to mix them, he was a [Barkeep] who saw thirsty people and the right drinks to serve them…at the right time. You could do a lot with a drink made right or made wrong.

The [Barkeep] smiled. As his hands blurred and he fixed drink after drink, weighing, assessing, and talking, he saw a small, white shape crawl behind the bar next to him. Rufelt paused in the middle of searching for Erin’s drinks and stared down at a small Gnoll cub staring up with wide eyes at one of his flaming drinks with awe. She sat on her hindquarters and waved at him. He blinked.

“A white Gnoll?”

She froze. Rufelt remembered what Erin had mentioned to him once. So he bent, smiled, and offered Mrsha a cup. Water mixed with blue fruit juice.

“Hello. My name’s Rufelt. Want to help me mix drinks?”

She nodded eagerly. So Rufelt lifted her up, and he looked at Elirr. The Gnoll was speaking with twice as much eloquence as he had been a few seconds ago, and it wasn’t all liquid courage. The [Beast Trainer] paused for a breath as the crowd around him applauded, and Rufelt gestured at the Gnoll child blowing on the flaming drink.

“Something tells me that you know her. Mind telling a [Bartender] a story?”

Elirr looked at the white Gnoll. She looked at him, and then Rufelt. And the [Barkeep] thought of all the old sayings. But he was a City Gnoll. And he’d always wanted a child. He and Lasica were thinking of one. So Elirr nodded and leaned forwards. And Rufelt found out the Gnoll’s name was Mrsha. Of course, Erin had told him that already. But suddenly he wanted to know more. All he could about this strange inn. When he got a chance to talk with his dear wife, he was sure Lasica would agree:

They’d underestimated this place.



——



Circumstance. Coincidence. And careful planning. These were the elements of Erin’s grand plan. Her improvised mess. But it had worked. She knew she could do it, and she did it.

Rufelt hadn’t called it a lucky event. He’d said it was because she had manipulated everything exactly as an [Innkeeper] did. As he could. Erin wasn’t sure if she believed that. Then again—she could sort of tell what he was talking about.

It wasn’t all intentional. It was just what she’d told him. People meeting people. That was all there was to it. When Erin had been mad at Olesm and searching for a way to kick his tailed behind and Lism’s, she hadn’t come up with one. But she’d had an inkling.

Maybe if Maughin were here, people might see that non-Drakes and non-Gnolls were cool. Grimalkin hadn’t been part of it, but Erin had wanted to meet him. And the weight-lifting? That was just being cool to a new friend. It tied in with Maughin too.

As for attracting attention in Pallass? Well, Erin had known they were snooty to Liscor for a while. So why not make Liscor look good? The real stroke had been getting Lasica and Rufelt here. And honestly, it was the least-involved bit of Erin’s plan.

She looked over and saw Krshia and Lasica still in conversation. Erin hadn’t had to do more than introduce them, make a few suggestions—it wasn’t nearly as hard as getting the people in Pallass to watch a play while Antinium worked in the background. But that was what would matter.

If Erin was only concerned with the election. But she wasn’t. If she could play two games of chess at once, well, she could also play three. The young woman smiled as she saw a green figure peering down the stairs. She beckoned, and Numbtongue hesitantly walked down into the crowded inn.

“Numbtongue! Great to see you. Don’t run off, please? I want you to meet Rufelt and Lasica at least.”

The Hobgoblin hesitated. But Erin grabbed his hand and towed him across the inn. Past Liscor’s citizens, who looked up at a Hobgoblin. Some recoiled, some didn’t. And Erin coincidentally passed by an open magical door, and a huge crowd of people who broke out into a furor.

“Is that a Hobgoblin?”

“Dead gods, it’s—why is she holding its hand?”

“Hobgoblins in an inn? Bad as Antinium if you ask me.”

“What? Where? Move out of the way, I can’t see the play!”

“And do you have anything else to eat?”

Erin ignored the voices. She looked back at Numbtongue. He was peering at the door.

“Sorry. Just showing people my totally awesome Hobgoblin friend.”

She shouted back at the door. Numbtongue smiled, and that was all Erin wanted. She heard a clamoring from the door and pointed at a Gnoll rushing by.

“Popcorn! Ishkr, pass a bucket through. Anyone who wants it has to be okay with Hobgoblins.”

Lyonette grabbed a fresh bucket of buttery popcorn and shoved it through the door. The [Princess] shouted, practically beaming with how much gold she was making tonight.

“Two silver! Someone pay up!”

The Pallassian citizens looked appalled as Erin brought Numbtongue to Rufelt. The Gnoll nearly dropped his cup. Numbtongue eyed a flaming drink and reached for it.

“Disgusting. Is this really—”

“Shh! What’s going on stage now?”

One of the Dullahans on Pallass’ side refused to be budged. She folded her arms, glaring through the doorway at a few of Liscor’s citizens who were people-watching.

“So your city lets in Hobgoblins too, is that it?”

The citizens of Liscor looked at each other. They glanced at Numbtongue by the bar. And then at Erin. And the Antinium. And yes, at Grimalkin, chatting about weights with some interested Gnolls and Drakes. At Maughin, towering over the others. Lorent, selling his Skills. And back through the door to Pallass.

City of Inventions. A Walled City. And Liscor was tiny compared to it. But not inferior. Thanks to her.

This is what you have, and this is what we have. Who we have. So the Drakes and Gnolls smiled. One of them shrugged, toasted the group with a drink that seemed to appear in his claws at the right moment, and downed it.

“Hey, we’re open to fresh faces. What, you scared of a single Hobgoblin too?”

And for a second, they were proud of Numbtongue. Just for a second. And how was that for a day of work? Erin thought about it. And in her head, another few pieces clicked together.



——



They were travelling down a forest road when the door opened. Noise and light spilled out. The sudden outpouring of sound and energy nearly gave Jelaqua a heart attack. She flailed as she woke up from her nap, rolled reflexively, and would have fallen off the wagon had Moore not caught her. Seborn jerked to wakefulness, grabbing at his daggers. He looked up and into a smiling face.

An old friend. But perhaps—not so old. Erin Solstice looked up at Moore, who had been guiding the mule-pulled wagon.

“Moore! Seborn! Jelaqua! Hey! It’s been too long!”

The Halfseekers stared at Erin. The young woman had to shout; it sounded like there was a wild party going on behind her. Jelaqua sat up, brushing dirt off her scales. She was wearing a female Drake body. She blinked blearily at Erin.

“Wha—Erin? What’s this about? Is there trouble?”

“Nope! I just wanted to say hi! I knew you had the door! How’s it going? Are you at Invrisil yet?”

Jelaqua frowned.

“Erin, we’re still nearly a hundred and fifty miles away yet. We don’t exactly run, and we had this adventure that—are you having some kind of celebration?”

Was that a half-giant behind Erin? No—Jelaqua blinked.

“Wait. Is that a Dullahan behind you? Where did you meet a Dullahan? He’s half the size of a War Walker!”

Erin looked over her shoulder.

“Oh? That’s just Maughin. He’s an [Armorer]. And I know you’re not there yet. Buuuut—I am having a ton of festivities! Food, drinks—there’s this amazing [Barkeep] who’s helping me out, and a [Chef]! And there’s an election in Liscor. It’s this huge thing. Anyways, want to come through?”

“Wh—now?”

Jelaqua turned to her companions. Moore scratched at his chin.

“But we’re so far away. And we are on the road…we said our goodbyes. Wouldn’t it be premature to come back?”

He said that, but Jelaqua saw him craning his neck, searching for Mrsha. Erin looked blankly at him.

“So? What’s stopping you? I have all kinds of new things. And I miss you. Come back, just for a little bit. We’ve got tons of [Mages]. And I’ve got blue juice. And some acid jars I’d love to sell you.”

She gave Seborn a hopeful glance, checking his reaction. The Drowned Man pulled some hay out of his clothing and scratched his chin with one claw.

“Acid what?”

“Acid jars, Seborn. Really nasty. Perfect for a [Rogue]! Tell you what, come on through, and the first two drinks are on me. Please? I can’t keep this door open too long or the guys in Pallass will kill Kel. And that’s probably a bad thing.”

She held out a hand. Seborn stared at it. Jelaqua looked at Moore. He wavered. Seborn chose for them. He grasped Erin’s hand and let her pull him up. He nodded at his teammates.

“I’m tired of sleeping on carts. We can say goodbye twice.”

Erin beamed. Jelaqua laughed. And Moore was just as fast to put the door on the ground and clamber through—after responsibly hitching the mules to a tree. They walked into the inn and stared around. Erin changed the door back to Pallass to hear a roar of fury from the door.

“What was that?”

“Door change! Sorry!”

“We missed part of the play!”

“Well, you can watch the rest! Look!”

Erin pointed at the stage, exasperated. One of the Gnolls on the other sides of the door drew in a breath to howl, and then he broke off. He pointed with one paw at a new group standing by the door.

“Is that—the Flamewarden’s Captain, Keldrass?”

“Maybe? Hey! Keldrass!”

Erin wandered away from the door. She laughed as she saw the Oldblood Drake talking with a few more adventurers. He looked up, and his jaw dropped as he saw the Halfseekers. He immediately grabbed Bevussa and towed her over.

“Jelaqua! I thought your team had left!”

“You know how it is! Magical doors! Bevussa! Erin just appeared and dragged us through! What’s this about an election? And why’re you here?”

“Erin called us over. To talk about acid flasks. Not that I would have missed this for anything. In fact, we’re lucky she called for us; there’s a line outside the inn, and no one can enter!”

Bevussa pointed a claw at the door. Jelaqua looked outside and did a double-take. Erin rubbed her hands together and gestured to the three adventurers. Seborn was already sitting at the bar, and Moore was sneaking up on Mrsha, who was sniffing the air with wide eyes.

“Hey! The more the merrier! And I called you all here today to unveil my latest product. Which is really my oldest product. Hey Lyonette! Acid flask?”

“Coming!”

The [Princess] hurried over, albeit watching the green bottle in her hands very carefully. Erin took it from her and showed it to the adventurers.

“See this? Acid flasks. Or jars. We’re selling them at twelve silver coins a flask. Extremely cheap given what it can do. And the price is going up—”

“Wait, that’s all acid?”

Bevussa recoiled from the jar. Erin nodded.

“Pure, uncut, Acid Fly juice. You know, the stuff they explode with when you swat them?”

“I’m not familiar. How corrosive is this? I’ve bought [Alchemist] acids before, and I haven’t been too impressed. This stuff can’t be too potent or it would eat through the glass, right?”

Keldrass eyed the green liquid sloshing about inside. Lyonette smiled and took the bottle back from Bevussa, who was tossing it up and down experimentally in one claw.

“Well, I’m told one can kill a Ghoul in less than a minute. And Erin took down the boss of Liscor’s crypt with one. It melts through organic material in seconds. Not glass or metal. If you want me to demonstrate—”

Jelaqua recoiled when Lyonette dosed a sausage in it, and the liquid practically melted the food. Lyonette turned a bit pale herself; Erin looked over and made a face.

“Ooh yeah. That’s as bad as I remember.”

“You let me toss that in the air? I could have killed myself!”

Bevussa was horrified and delighted. She looked at the melted remains of the sausage.

“That’s fast! You only have a few seconds to neutralize it before you’re dead, huh? Maybe water would stop it. But against a monster? One without hands? If my team had a dozen and threw them—”

“If you’re hit on the wing, you’re dead. Absolutely not.”

Keldrass was pale as he edged back from the acid. Jelaqua poked the sausage remains with one claw and frantically scrubbed it on her tunic. She eyed the damage to her claw and shrugged.

“Store it in a bag of holding and don’t drop it when you throw. Seborn! Look at this crap! You can stop moaning about your old acid dagger—this stuff is worth gold!”

Lyonette’s eyes gleamed. Erin laughed as she turned from the group to Rufelt at the bar. Seborn sighed and got up. As he passed Erin, she turned to him.

“You have to tell me all about your story, alright?”

“It’s not much of an adventure, but I’ll stop Jelaqua from exaggerating. Is there a room for us tonight? I’m sick of bugs eating me alive.”

“Sure! The third floor’s probably finished by now. I’ll get someone to make you a bed! And a bucket of water so you don’t get dehydrated!”

The Drowned Man smiled. Erin turned past him to Moore, who was hugging Mrsha very gently. Past him, Rufelt was serving drinks while talking to Lasica.

“…not sure about this Antinium thing, but definitely sounds better than this Lism fellow, yes? Why not? We can use tonight as proof that Liscor deserves our consideration. If we don’t have a few hundred people from Pallass clamoring for a visit—”

“Erin!”

A voice bellowed in Erin’s ear. She yelped and spun. Grimalkin grabbed Erin by the shoulder. He looked down at her and nodded.

“Outstanding! I didn’t get a chance to thank you. But this weight bar? Your ideas about the smaller weights? This will revolutionize Pallass’ training regimen. No—the world! I can’t believe I never thought of it! It just never occurred to me. Weights? We’ve had training weapons and lead-filled objects forever—but who would think to make something so useless in any context but this?”

“Um. Thanks?”

Erin smiled up at Grimalkin. The [Mage] shook his head.

“Thanks? Thanks? Give yourself more credit! This is the kind of tool that will go down in history. And you—you invented it. Or did you? You said it came from your homeland? Where in the world do you come from? I’ve never seen the like.”

“Uh—uh—well, you know. Terandria?”

“Where in Terandria? I’ve travelled across any number of kingdoms. And no one’s even breathed a word of this to me—and believe me, I would look! Is it something in your village? Some concept no one’s thought of in a military context?”

Erin panicked. Normally, people left it alone when she hinted she was from Terandria, but Grimalkin was excited. And he had a death-grip on her shoulder. She looked around, searching for a lie.

“Well, my home town’s called Grand R—”

“Ah! Grimalkin. Just the Drake I was looking for.”

A smooth figure interposed himself between Erin and Grimalkin. The Drake let go as he turned to Pisces. The [Necromancer] gave Grimalkin an oily smile, and Erin vowed to be nice to Pisces for at least a week. The muscular Drake raised one brow as he looked at Pisces.

“Ah. The [Necromancer]. Did you see my performance in Liscor?”

“I did indeed, sir. And I’d be delighted to learn the spell you cast. [Lion’s Strength]? I myself am something of a generalist [Mage] despite my main class being, ah, [Necromancer]. If you’d care to exchange spells or perhaps I could offer you remuneration to learn that spell in particular—”

“Not interested.”

Grimalkin turned his back on Pisces with a snort. The [Necromancer]’s face fell.

“I assure you, I can fully compensate you for your time. I happen to be in possession of a large quantity of gold that—”

“I don’t train [Necromancers]. Or [Mages] I’m not personally training. If you were my apprentice, that would be another matter. How about it? I sign my students up for a year’s course. If you can meet my basic physical tests, I’ll teach you my basic repertoire of magics. As fine an education as you could find in Fissival, with an added physical core component!”

Grimalkin flexed one arm for proof. Pisces’ face fell.

“Ah, well, I happen to be a graduate of Wistram myself—”

“And? You think that qualifies you? I see a rapier at your hip, but can you use it?”

Grimalkin poked a claw at Pisces’ side. The [Necromancer] narrowed his eyes.

“I assure you, I was considered a very proficient dueler in the academy during my tenure there.”

The Drake rolled his eyes.

“Against other [Mages] with more body fat than bone? I don’t doubt it. But you don’t have a [Fencer]’s muscles. And believe me, a bit of skill won’t save you against anything with a stony hide. Muscle is the only thing that will pierce that! Or raw magical talent. Again, my classes train both.”

He folded his arms, and his disparaging gaze said it all. Pisces’ eyes flashed.

“And if I said that I had more magical talent in my left hand than all your muscles could possibly—”

“Okay! Pisces! My turn.”

A half-Elf slid into the [Necromancer], bumping him to one side. Ceria smiled up at Grimalkin as the rest of her team appeared. The Drake eyed Ksmvr, but didn’t comment—he was watching Erin slowly edge away with one eye. And worse, he was no idiot. Ceria offered her good hand, smiling nervously.

“Sorry about that. Pisces can be rude.”

“Arrogant is the word I’d use. The half-Elf [Cryomancer]. Want to join my school? You could both use the effort.”

Ceria wavered.

“Well—I was hoping we could just learn some spells from you. I’m not one for, uh, physical exercise—”

“I noticed. You’re lucky that half-Elves have strong metabolisms, or you’d weigh more than you do. It’s not often I see overweight half-Elves, but give it five years at the offset, and you’ll notice a change.”

Grimalkin pointedly eyed her stomach. Ceria turned beet-red.

“I—we’re adventurers. We can’t spend the time training. My team, Yvlon and Ksmvr, can’t wait for a year or even months.”

“I see that too. Worker. Missing an arm—funny, I heard your people could regenerate limbs.”

“Not without the right substances. Hello, Sir Grimalkin.”

The Drake ignored Ksmvr. He looked at Yvlon and then dropped his arms. He bent and stared at her arms.

“What in the name of the Walls did you do to your arms? I sense—”

His head spun towards Pisces. The [Necromancer] gulped. Yvlon jumped in.

“My arms were damaged by a fire elemental. My bones are fused with metal.”

“Damn.”

The expletive made heads six tables over turn. Grimalkin struck his thigh, looking disgusted.

“That explains that. I’m sorry, Miss…?”

“Yvlon.”

“Miss Yvlon. No wonder. And no wonder you’re paired with…”

Grimalkin thoughtfully looked at Pisces, then he shook his head.

“You know what? I take it back. Perhaps there are good uses for [Necromancers] in this world after all. Not that I’ve met one that wasn’t half-weasel or necrophiliac.”

“Necro—”

Pisces’ outraged shout was stopped by Ceria’s hand. He tried to speak, but she gripped his mouth. His face turned slowly red as he tried to shout at Grimalkin. The Drake ignored him and went on.

“Still, I can see that my training won’t do you any good, Miss Yvlon. A shame. I was looking into bone-grafting and the like at one point, but I had no desire to be a [Flesh Mage] or dabble into real necromancy. That’s your best shot. I can help you regain your muscle mass if you were to find a way to regrow your bones—with these weights, I’ll be able to do it twice as efficiently as ever! But I can’t help you until then.”

Yvlon smiled crookedly.

“That’s fine. Really. I’m searching for a cure, but I do have a backup until then. But about the spells. Are you certain you won’t think about teaching my companions one spell? We could pay you. I’m not sure what the going rate is, but a few thousand gold coins…?”

Grimalkin’s shake of the head was no less brisk.

“Truthfully, Miss Yvlon, that’s an insulting offer. [Lion’s Strength] is a Tier 4 spell, but it’s an enchantment, which you could call Tier 5 since it’s not as simple as, say, [Grand Fireball]. If I were selling my knowledge of the spell and time it would take to train your companions—which I am not since I’m rich enough—I’d ask for at least nine thousand gold pieces. Minimum.”

“Nine thousand? For a spell? I could buy a good magic sword for that!”

Yvlon was aghast. Grimalkin just heaved his shoulders once.

“It’s a seller’s market. Spells that are rarer or harder to obtain deserve the cost. And my time is valuable. And your friends could tell you—most [Mages] burn through gold like a bonfire does wood. These weights are the most cost-efficient devices I’ve ever come across. Non-magical. Just metal? Brilliant. I have my own inventions and concepts for training, but they’re not nearly so good.”

“Really? You dabble in magical theory yourself, Magus Grimalkin? I would have thought your pursuit of physical perfection consumes your time.”

Pisces, still flushed, sneered at Grimalkin. Ceria immediately slapped the back of his head. The [Sinew Magus] frowned down at Pisces.

“Wistram isn’t the sole bastion of magical knowledge. The last time I visited the academy, I presented a collaborative dimensional sphere—you’re aware of the ancient contained worlds, aren’t you? Wistram is technically one such area, albeit not portable… my fellow Drakes and I succeeded in creating a pocket dimension of fifteen feet by fifteen feet in a six-and-a-half foot sphere. Not ideal, but it was a prototype. If we just had access to the true magics of old, or we could call upon the world’s foremost experts in diverse fields like enchanting, dimensional magic, teleportation, and so on…”

Pisces and Ceria’s jaws dropped. Pisces, suddenly sounding much more respectful, stammered.

“You. Created a working sub-dimension artifact? In this era? Without relying on any sort of pre-existing blueprint or materials or relics of an older time…? Er, Sir Grimalkin?”

“For a training room. Why? Isn’t that what they teach you at Wistram? I could teach you. And if you take my class, I’ll waive your fees, boy! Now that I think about it, anyone who can mend all the broken bones my apprentices come down with would cut short their recovery time immensely! And ice is sovereign for bruises—healing potions just reverse muscle damage, which stunts muscle growth! Think on it—I’ll be sure to come back if only to talk to Miss Erin. Who has run off before she could answer me about her home town, I see. Perhaps she’s…hm…”

Grimalkin looked around and spotted Erin. She’d made her escape and was being cornered by Keldrass and Bevussa. The Drake was distractedly addressing someone from Pallass.

“What? Support for Krshia Silverfang’s election? No!”

Heads turned to look at the Oldblood Drake. Keldrass hesitated.

“I mean, I’m not against it—I’m here to look into acid flasks. I, uh, well, my team isn’t eligible to vote for Liscor’s new Council, obviously. But we do like the idea of an expanded Adventurer’s Guild. Which both candidates are offering as far as I understand.”

“Yeah! He’s just in my inn! To buy from me! A Human! Vote for Krshia! Lism’s a jerk!”

Erin cheered over Keldrass’ shoulder. The Drake bit his tongue and turned to her. Bevussa laughed.

“You walked into that, Keldrass! So Erin, how many acid flasks can we buy here? Lyonette says she only has forty-three—can we have all forty-three if we pay more per flask? What if I come out and endorse Krshia’s campaign?”

“Hold on, Bevussa, you can’t just take them all!”

Keldrass spluttered. Erin’s eyes went round.

“You want all of them?”

“It’s called storing up. Bags of holding don’t let most things go bad. And yeah, I want that acid stuff myself. Seborn will kill me. So—sorry guys, Erin and I go way back.”

Jelaqua elbowed in between the two captains. The Selphid smiled at Erin, and the [Innkeeper] held up a hand.

“Hold on! I can’t give you all priority! I told Selys I’d sell them at the Adventurer’s Guild. I just wanted to advertise them here.”

“Aw, come on, Erin!”

“…What if I sold you all twelve?”

“I’ll take it!”

Jelaqua reached for her coin pouch at the same time as the other two Captains. Ceria, who’d missed the discussion entirely, only saw an acid jar as Erin began handing them over and practically froze her way across the room to get to Erin. Jelaqua was cackling as she stowed the jars in a bag.

“If this works well, Erin, you are going to be rich, and I’m going to be one happy Selphid. Imagine using this on a Troll, guys?”

“I want to see if it works on Stone Starers myself.”

Bevussa nodded. Jelaqua grinned, turned her head towards Ceria to offer a teasing remark—although Erin had already set aside some of the jars for her friend—and froze. Her eyes locked on Grimalkin as Yvlon let him examine one arm. She fumbled with the acid jar, and both Keldrass and Bevussa swore and leapt clear. Jelaqua caught the jar, absently put it in her bag of holding, and then grabbed Erin’s arm.

“That is the most muscular body I’ve ever seen in my life. Who is that? Erin, you have to introduce me.”

“To who? Grimalkin?”

“Is that his name? Please.”

Erin didn’t want to go back just yet, but Jelaqua practically towed her across the room. Grimalkin looked up from a cursory conversation with Pisces and blinked at Jelaqua.

“Hey Grimalkin! My friend really wants to meet you. She’s a—”

“Selphid. Of course. A pleasure to meet you, Miss.”

Grimalkin smiled and held out a hand. The Selphid shook it gently.

“Hi. Jelaqua.”

Erin eyed her from the side. Was she—was she blushing? Jelaqua was staring at one of Grimalkin’s pectorals. The [Sinew Magus] sighed and whispered to Erin as he stepped back.

“I got a lot of stares on Baleros. And I have a number of bids for my body when I die. It’s flattering, I suppose.”

“Uh—”

“Can—can I touch your arms?”

“By all means.”

Grimalkin struck a pose. Jelaqua sighed. Erin looked at her face, edged back, and then waved her friends over.

“Grimalkin, meet Keldrass and Bevussa! Hey Seborn! Moore! Get over here!”

“I know you two. Keldrass. Oldblood elites. Didn’t I train your unit once? You’re an adventurer now?”

The muscular Drake looked at Keldrass, who seemed to have inhaled his tongue. Bevussa shook his hand, laughing. And then Seborn appeared and stared up at Grimalkin. He looked at Jelaqua and towed her away without another word. She was still staring. Grimalkin looked around—and then he saw Moore.

“I’m very pleased to meet you. I apologize for my captain. She—”

“Dead gods, man!”

Grimalkin roared, making Moore jump as the half-Giant held out a hand to shake. Mrsha, perched on his shoulders, leapt free in alarm. Bevussa caught her. Grimalkin stared up at Moore and then strode around him.

“You! Sir! You! Do you understand what you could be doing with that body of yours? You should be turning it into a work of art! This is a criminal waste of your potential!”

He pointed at one of Moore’s arms, which, while large, didn’t ripple with muscle like Grimalkin’s. The Drake clenched a fist and leaned in to Moore, speaking urgently as the half-Giant backed up in alarm.

“You could be the finest [Mage] I’ve ever taught. What do you say? Join me, Magus Moore, and by the time we’re through, you could punch a hole in a Wyvern and rip out its heart!”

“I’m not one for exercise. I’m large enough as it is. Thank you, but I’m really—”

“You have talent! Young—half-Giant, you could be a legend! I’m past my prime, but you’re barely, what, in your thirties? Come with me, and I’ll pit you against Feor himself and watch that old half-Elf crumple under a single blow! First the Gecko, now you—this city is a breeding ground for unused potential! At least hear me out! Listen—I’ll sponsor your training. You want to learn magic? I happen to know a variety of Tier 5 spells, even a Tier 6 spell! Stick with me—”

Moore tried to retreat. Grimalkin pursued him. Pisces, wide-eyed, followed them both.

“Tier 6 did you say? Moore, hear Sir Grimalkin out. I happen to have newfound appreciation for his philosophy…”

He disappeared into the crowd after them. Erin, laughing, leaned on Ceria for support. The half-Elf whispered urgently to her.

“Can I get some of those acid jars too, Erin?”

“Sure, sure! Just let me check on my guests. I’ll save Moore from Grimalkin in a bit. Or—Mrsha, you do it! Protect him so he doesn’t turn into Grimalkin!”

The little Gnoll nodded and raced into the crowd. Erin turned around.

“Let’s see. Where’s Maughin? I want him to get on this thing Rufelt and Lasica are discussing. Is he still with the armor? There he is! Maughin! Hey! Maughin!”

Erin waved at the Dullahan. He was sitting alone, drinking from a large tankard and watching Hamlet, which was now being shown on stage. There were still [Smiths] gathered around the Heartflame Breastplate, trying to activate it, but he seemed to be done for a moment. The Dullahan looked over as Erin walked towards him. Bevussa, however, was shocked. She grabbed Erin with one wing-arm and steered her backwards. The Garuda opened her beak and whispered into Erin’s ear.

“Erin! That’s Maughin! Our best [Armorer]! In all of Pallass! His work is so good that you can buy his stuff, take it to an [Enchanter], and have it enchanted with practically anything you want! His metal is good! How in the name of the Ancestors do you know him?”

“Eh. We met? Hey Maughin, how’s it going? Are you bored? Do you need anything? How’s the armor?”

The Dullahan stared down at Erin. He shook his head slowly and looked around. He hesitated, then shook his head again.

“I’m—fine, Miss Solstice. Truly. The armor is exquisite. I can’t even tell what metal it is, but the detailing, the craft—it’s magic and metal, seamlessly blended. Beyond my craft. I wish that I had the gift for magic. But perhaps if I were Level 40, or Level 50—Pelt might know what it was made of. I am not that much of a master yet.”

He laughed hollowly for a second. Then he bowed his head.

“But I am grateful. Truly, for this opportunity. And these sights. This food…I am simply enjoying myself.”

“That’s great. And, oh—this is Bevussa. She says she’s a big fan of yours.”

Erin introduced Bevussa. The Garuda colored—although with her feathers, it was impossible to really see.

“Master Maughin? An honor. I bought my blades from you, do you recall?”

“Of course. The Wings of Pallass are an illustrious team. We share a common friend. I will remember that.”

Maughin inclined his head. Erin beamed, missing the Dullahan’s polite nuance, and Bevussa bowed.

“I am honored, sir. I don’t want to interrupt you, so I will remove myself.”

She tugged at Erin’s arm tactfully, and the [Innkeeper] caught the message and decided to introduce Rufelt and Lasica to Bevussa and Lyonette instead. Maughin sat alone at his table, watching them go. After a moment, a Selphid staggered by, downing two shots of whiskey in quick succession. She was following a shadow in the air, which eluded her. Maughin watched with curiosity.

“I wasn’t going to insult him! I just wanted to touch that body! Seborn! You—you jerk! Do you know how amazing a body like that is? Even Level 30 [Warriors] aren’t that incredible. That’s Level 40 or something. Beautiful—come back here!”

Jelaqua sighed; she’d lost Seborn. She looked around and saw Maughin’s table was one of the only empty ones. The Selphid sat down and raised an unsteady hand.

“Sorry. Sir. I just need to catch my breath. I was blown away by—and I think I had five or six shots in the last few minutes to steady my nerves.”

“It is fine. Take your time.”

Maughin ducked his head politely. He thought about taking it off, but someone might knock his head to the floor by accident. People were everywhere. Jelaqua swayed, and then glanced up at Maughin. Her eyes widened.

“Oh, sh—sorry, for the interruption, Mister, uh, Dullahan. I’m not trying to be rude.”

Blushing, she stood up. Maughin held up a hand, and Jelaqua stopped.

“No offense taken. Truly. Tell me, are you a regular? I saw you speaking with Erin Solstice.”

Maughin felt comfortable enough to use her name. Jelaqua sat with a smile.

“Me? I know her. I stayed at this inn for a long while. Sorry. Adventurer. Jelaqua Ivirith, Captain of the Halfseekers. My team was trying Liscor’s dungeon until we decided to stop. We were on the road, but Erin’s magical door…”

She waved an unsteady hand at the doorway. Maughin nodded.

“So you know her well. Tell me. Is it like this here every night? Is it always so…busy?”

His head still spun from all of the events of this morning. He had been in his forge. And now he’d been to another city, had a bunch of new orders for weights, had gotten involved in Liscor’s politics, seen Antinium and a friendly Hobgoblin…

And Raekea was married. Maughin sighed. Jelaqua shrugged as she looked around the room.

“Nah, but this is an Erin classic. Like it? I know it’s crazy, but no one gets hurt at one of her parties. Much. Erin’s great at throwing them; the only time I’ve seen more people just fill a room was back home. Lizardfolk.”

Maughin smiled nostalgically.

“They do enjoy their parties. But theirs are spontaneous. I cannot help but feel this was entirely organized by Miss Erin herself.”

“True! She’s cunning. But I swear, she could make a Centaur get off his high horse and laugh!”

Jelaqua punctuated that sentence with a laugh of her own, and Maughin chuckled with her. Even though she was a stranger. Then his brow furrowed. He leaned forwards suddenly.

“…Excuse me. Did I hear you say you were from Baleros?”

“Who? Me? Yeah! I’m a Baleros native! Born and raised! I haven’t been home in ages! What about you?”

“I’m from the north. One of our—that is to say, my people’s—capitals.”

Jelaqua held up a hand. She squinted at Maughin.

“Don’t tell me. The biggest one? Invictel? No? Cephalium?”

“Invictel.”

“Of course! Your armor’s got that color pattern.”

Jelaqua drunkenly waved at Maughin’s armor, which did indeed look mostly white to the untrained eye. But it was the slight flashes of color on the armguards and parts of the armor that told you where to look. An old Dullahan tradition, so their warriors could hide in the snow. Maughin smiled.

“And you are? I didn’t think most Drakes came from Baleros.”

Jelaqua paused. She looked down at her body and laughed.

“That’s just because you see me like this! Sorry, scales hide the obvious.”

“Selphid. Of course.”

Maughin felt like a fool. In fairness, Jelaqua’s current body had dark, almost magenta scales. But if you looked at her eyes, the way she didn’t breathe as often as everyone else—he shook his head.

“My apologies, Miss Ivirith. It has been a while since I went home.”

“You and me both, Master…?”

“Maughin. Forgive me. That was an indiscretion.”

Now the Dullahan did turn red. Jelaqua just laughed good-naturedly.

“I insulted you by sitting down unwelcomed. We’ll call it even! And it’s great to meet another Balerosian! I suppose there are enough from Pallass—”

“Too few. Many lived in Pallass before I came here. We have a community. And those that came here didn’t live back home as long as I did. I spent nearly thirty years there, and not just in my city. Coming here, I have made a life for myself for this last decade. But…”

“Home is home. Bugs and all.”

Jelaqua raised her empty glass. Maughin raised his half-filled tankard.

“From north to south, to frozen earth and humid soil. We call it home.”

They clinked glasses softly. Jelaqua laughed, but it was quieter, more pleasant. She leaned back in her chair, sobering a bit or perhaps just telling her liver to do some work. The orange flush in her cheeks died down a bit. She leaned forwards.

“Do you get much news from home? I’m starved myself.”

“A few [Messages]. Mainly politics from Invictel and among my people. But the topic on every lip was Daquin. Did you hear about the latest game with the Titan?”

“Hear it? Dead gods, I would have paid a hundred gold pieces to see it! It had all the action you could want for, or so I heard. And Tulm the Mithril? The Iron Vanguard? Seriously? I couldn’t see a thing, but you bet I flipped every table in the inn when I heard it was being broadcast! Live of all things!”

Jelaqua slapped the table, groaning. Maughin smiled hugely.

“It was a sight to see. There were people of every species—Cameral of Lord Astoragon’s students, Yerranola—they teamed up together, you know. They might have won, but for Tulm the Mithril himself intervening at the last moment.”

“You mean the feint? What happened? Wait, how did you see?”

Agog, Jelaqua scooted forwards. Maughin took off his head so he could place it on the table and speak without having to lean all the way down.

“I have an acquaintance with a scrying orb. I was able to view all of it. Are you aware of how the game ended?”

“I heard it was a trick! And there were two winners!”

“Close. You see—actually, I think I could persuade my friend to lend you the scrying orb if you are in the area in the next few days. He bought a—a recording of the entire game. From Wistram. It was exceptionally expensive, but—”

“I could watch it? Really? I’ll pay you for that honor, Mister Maughin.”

“Maughin, please. But if you’re willing—”

“No, tell me more! I have to know. I’ll watch it again, hells, three times! Who won? And how? Hey—is that blue juice with rum? Two drinks for us! Don’t bother with shots. Just fill up that mug!”

Jelaqua turned and caught Ishkr as he hurried by. The Gnoll sighed and supplied both Selphid and Maughin with drinks. The Dullahan smiled and raised a mug. Then he leaned forwards to talk about the games at Daquin, which he’d been dying to talk about with someone who really knew what it all meant in the context of home. Jelaqua grinned, and they both felt a moment of elation. Pallass and Liscor weren’t the only places that had children who were proud of their homes.



——



And the night wore on. In The Wandering Inn, it passed slowly, and in sudden jumps, leaping from moment to moment. But in Liscor, it passed at a more even pace, if uncomfortably for many. Those who wanted to know what had happened but refused to go to the inn out of principle or commitment.

A furious Lism and a sleepless Olesm, whose worst fears couldn’t quite keep up with Erin herself. And those who didn’t know quite what they were doing. Not anymore.

“It’s her. I heard what she did at the inn. She opened the door to Pallass and started getting people interested in visiting the Walled City.”

“Mm. One would assume that isn’t very hard.”

“Hah. No. But you’d be surprised—no one wanted to go. I think they were all waiting for someone else to be the first. And then it slipped out of memory and…well, she did it. She was the first. But she didn’t just open Pallass to Liscor. She opened Liscor to Pallass.”

“I don’t follow.”

“…I mean, she made us look good to them. To a Walled City. We’re a small, border city. I get that. But she impressed the Pallassians. She showed them what Liscor has to offer. And that’s the catch.”

“I still fail to follow.”

“What Liscor has to be proud of is—her, I suppose. That’s what’s so funny. Pallass may have its marvels, but it does not have Erin Solstice. Her pizza, her crazy ideas, her magic door and plays…and she showed them that today. Ancestors, I saw two of Pallass’ legends walking my streets today. Grimalkin and Maughin. Know them? Well, they’re important personages. The kind any Watch Captain remembers.”

“In case of siege? As valuable assets?”

“Or potential traitors. People who could be enticed away by another city. People who can’t be allowed to die. Important people. Over Level 30. But—at least Grimalkin, I know he’s over Level 40. I’m almost positive. Not sure about Maughin, but he’s probably Level 35? At least. The top [Armorer] in all of Pallass.”

“Ah. And Erin brought them here? She knows them? How?”

“…Because she’s her. And she walked around with them. As equals. And she treated with Pallass as equals. Do you know how that feels?”

“Yes. It’s something my…people have wanted ourselves.”

“Right. Well, it’s a great stunt. And she did make the Antinium look good, or so it seems. And it puts a dent in Lism’s arguments against Humans. Because she’s our best Human. And worst. It’s a fair point she made. It’s just that it doesn’t fit in the actual debate. This is about Antinium versus non-Antinium aid for the city.”

“And the popularity of said Antinium is meaningless compared to the very real dangers they present.”

“Exactly. So what does this mean? Nothing.”

“Hmf. Or perhaps everything. This is a democracy. The hearts and minds of people are won by deeds as much as rational debate.”

“But it doesn’t matter. If the Grand Queen orders an attack on Liscor, how much we like the Antinium or they like us—it’s meaningless. We all die, or we fight them off. That’s the only thing that matters.”

“Wrong. It matters. Because she, Erin Solstice, is a friend to the Antinium. They laid down their lives for her. Would you discredit her faith in them? Their sacrifice? If you believe they would not kill her even if the Grand Queen willed it, you must consider that they may hold Liscor by the same values. It is an argument by example.”

“One example isn’t much to stake a city’s survival on.”

“Of course not. But again, this is about Erin Solstice. And she moves hearts as well as minds. In an election, that may be enough to win Krshia Silverfang her votes, even if this Lism has more logical an argument.”

“Really? You think that will win a crowd more than the facts? Well, I was never a debater.”

“I was. It is a custom among my people. We appreciate both the spirit of one’s argument, the emotion and delivery of words, as well as the logical reasoning and impeccable structure of rhetoric. Both have merit. And if Erin Solstice cannot argue to the surety of logic, she can speak to the hearts and minds of those she meets. That is what I see in her.”

“…I see. So Krshia’s got a chance, is that what you’re saying?”

“As long as she has Erin Solstice? Yes. I have been thinking. And she is the leader I should have aspired to be. Rather than the one I was. She does not force or control in the way you or I do, Watch Captain. She brings out the best in us. I knew her so briefly. But when I listen to Ceria or you, I wish that I had spoken to her longer.”

Zevara looked up at the ceiling. She stared at the silent, hunched silhouette illuminated by the cage door’s field stretching across the floor in front of her.

“She doesn’t visit you, then?”

Calruz shook his head once.

“Never. She has not forgotten what I have done. The lives I took. Or perhaps she has simply forgotten me.”

“Maybe.”

Zevara saw him sitting there, out of the corner of one eye. Huge, somber, his one arm resting on his knees. He sat there, his back to her, and each sentence came slowly, deliberately.

“You’re not forgotten by your team, you know. At least not by Ceria Springwalker. She has come to my office at least twice a week since you’ve been imprisoned here. She visits you at least four times each week. It’s an annoyance.”

There was a smile in Calruz’s voice.

“Ceria was always good at that. And we do…talk.”

“About what?”

“Her team’s latest missions. Current events. What Erin Solstice has done. Little else.”

“Not about your execution?”

Calruz paused.

“I have you for that. But you do not speak of it either. Don’t spare my feelings. When?”

Zevara sat up. Her back pressed against the cold wall, and her tail coiled in on itself. She ignored the pit in her stomach.

“It’s a complicated business. Liscor has no dedicated [Executioner]. I have to negotiate for one to arrive. Set a date. Choose the…method of your execution. That’s not simple, but I can do it. The real problem is the matter of your people. They’ve expressed an…interest in your fate.”

“Ah.”

One word. But it spoke volumes. Zevara turned her head.

“Ah?”

Calruz’s shoulders rose and fell.

“I can guess what they’ve said. They would prefer to try and execute me on Minos. It would be less dishonorable to my kin and people to make it a public display. However, somehow, I doubt I will reach my home.”

Was he smiling? What did it look like? Zevara craned her head, but she couldn’t see. She sat cross-legged. Bowed her head over her knees.

“It’s my choice when you’re executed. This current Council seems to have forgotten about you too.”

“Everyone has. It makes sense; these politics, the affairs above, they matter. My fate is sealed. But your duty is to carry out my sentence. So. Again. When?”

The Watch Captain closed her eyes. She did not want this. This, of all her duties, she did not want. Exile was usually how it went—criminals seldom returned to Liscor, knowing that if they were caught, they would die. And perhaps if it had been a common murderer, a [Thug], this would be easy. But this?

“My job is to protect Liscor. Part of that is understanding whether you were affected by some component of the dungeon. The water that makes people blind to parts of the dungeon—the way the monsters don’t attack each other. It could be linked to your madness. That’s why…”

“Why you’ve been speaking to me?”

“Yes. I’m trying to ascertain whether what Ceria claims is true. Whether this is an enchantment, a hex of some kind that damaged you, even a Skill someone used, or—”

“Me.”

“Yes.”

Silence. Calruz shifted. Zevara watched his one arm go up, disappear in the shadow on the floor.

“If it is an enchantment, I would be glad to know. But your [Mages] detected no magic on me or my possessions.”

“No. They did not. But Ceria claims to have seen you switch personalities. She believes something affected you in the dungeon. And you are…saner whenever I’ve talked to you.”

“I have had moments where I am not.”

“True. And you only vaguely remember them. And to me—you seem different.”

“Such is the nature of madness.”

“Or a spell. We haven’t detected it, but Springwalker claims that it could have been an artifact the Raskghar gave you. Or some function of the dungeon itself.”

“She has no proof. Without evidence, the logical conclusion points one way.”

“Well, say it was her emotional, continued pleas that swayed me. And I’m trusting the judgment of my own eyes. Calruz. Tell me again.”

There was a long pause. The Minotaur turned his head at last. Zevara searched his gaze for deceit. She clutched something in one claw. But all she saw was uncertainty, all she heard was his low voice.

“I…believe the me that was below is not who I am now. But I feel it, Watch Captain. Gnawing away inside of me. Calling me. Telling me to—to throw away pride and honor for glory. To seek the treasure at the heart of the dungeon.”

“Do you think this is all your madness? Do you think you yourself did all this? Abandoned your team? Hunted the Gnolls? Sacrificed them? Became the Raskghar Chieftain?”

Zevara waited, and Calruz rolled his eyes upwards. He closed them, clenched his one fist, and seemed to struggle. But at last, the same answer came out again.

“No. But am I lying to myself?”

Zevara didn’t reply. She glanced down at her claw. Calruz stared past her.

“Even if it was not me, Watch Captain. What does it matter? I am going mad in this cell. Does anyone above remember me? Besides Ceria? I waste away.”

“I see you doing pushups and sit ups every time I come down here.”

“I am losing my mind.”

The Minotaur intoned the words with slow, steely calm. On the brink of snapping. He looked at her, and his eyes were clear, blue, deep.

Desperate.

“I may be innocent. But if I and you cannot prove it, so what? I still committed the crimes. Even if I were under a [Charm] spell, the blood remains. And besides. It is better to die than live like this forever.”

“Don’t tempt me. And don’t say that. I’m weighing my options. I’m not just stalling. You’re a waste of money. I have other options.”

“Such as?”

“Getting a proper [Mage] to check you out. Not just one from our Mage’s Guild. Wistram-certified. Or finding a [Healer] who knows something about these sorts of things. Give me…well, less than a week.”

The Minotaur nodded heavily.

“I can wait that long. Especially if you keep telling me of the events in the city.”

He paused, and then managed a small smile.

“And I must confess. I want to know who wins this election.”

“I’ll keep you informed. Just…well, thanks for listening to me. I still don’t know if Lism winning would be for the best. I was sure of Klbkch. But some days…”

“You never know who will be your enemy. Even a trusted friend can turn.”

Zevara grimaced.

“You’re the last person I want to hear tell me that. I’ve got to sign off.”

She stood up. Troubled. Calruz watched her go. Zevara walked slowly down the line of cells, ignoring the calls from the two drunks and [Pickpocket] currently awake. She waved at the [Guardswomen] on duty, and then stopped outside. The night was calm. Quiet. Unless you counted The Wandering Inn, probably ablaze from the battlements with noise and light. But right now?

Zevara looked down again at the thing she was holding. A smooth gem, bright blue. She eyed it, shook it. She checked the truth stone for cracks. It glowed blue, without a hint of even violet.

“Damn.”

The Watch Captain sighed. She looked back at the cell. He was uncertain. But she was certain that Ceria might just be right. And that was a certain uncertainty that had given her ulcers. If—if it was the dungeon. But if it wasn’t—

“Going mad in there. Every day in a box.”

Zevara shuddered. There were kinder fates, and those included slavery or death. Imagine living a year like that. He had been there for…she shook herself.

She still had to go to her office. Sign some papers. So Zevara did. She walked down the street, trying not to think of Calruz. But she did. And as she sat in her office, she thought about the fact that she was the only person in the city who really thought of him outside of Ceria and the guards who took him his food and emptied the waste bucket. The only one. Zevara drummed her claws on her desk.

If. She’d met murderers. She’d killed them, or watched them die by hanging or the axe. It wasn’t ever pleasant. But there had been a finality to those Gnolls and Drakes. A sense of guilt, even when they pleaded innocent or for leniency. The certainty, even over the hollow bitterness or vengeance, that justice, in the letter of the law, had been carried out. But if Zevara watched Calruz dance on a hemp rope or lie down under the axe, she knew she wouldn’t feel that certainty.

She didn’t know. And how Zevara wished she could, one way or the other. Slowly, she looked around for the bottle of stout spirits she’d been given by Lism for ‘considering his platform’ just the other day. She’d been about to throw it away, but now she wanted it.

Zevara found the bottle. She eyed it, then cursed. She grabbed the bottle, stood up, and stormed back to the prison. There she uncorked it, took a drink, then checked the field of the cell. It was attuned to her. So she looked at the Minotaur sitting there, lifted the bottle, and rolled it into the cell. He stared at her. Zevara glared as she made herself comfortable on her seat.

“Well? What are you waiting for? Say Krshia does win. Am I throwing Liscor away? Tell me I’m not wrong to trust Klbkch. Or tell me I am. But if you don’t pass that bottle back in the next minute, I’ll call for a [Headsman] tomorrow. And I’ll make sure he has a rusty axe.”

She waited, impatient, uncertain. Terribly lonely. And the Minotaur smiled.



——



Coincidence was a funny thing. Anything could happen if you put two people who might never meet in the same room. And to the weary [Innkeeper] who went to bed well into next morning, she considered it a job well done. But even she didn’t know everything of what she’d done.

Even so, it was about connections. Rufelt and Lasica, who both went to their bed, smiling, delighted, and remembering the name of a Gnoll in Liscor. Krshia Silverfang, who slept reassured that victory wasn’t a pipe dream. The hundreds and thousands of citizens in Pallass and Liscor who thought of Goblins and Antinium in perhaps, perhaps a different light. And thought of another city as close by rather than far away.

But the effects ran deeper still. To Relc, and Grimalkin, who had struck up a friendship, if only beginning. To Temile of the Players of Celum, whose performance had attracted a Walled City’s attention. To the [Smiths] of Pallass, who lifted weights in their dreams. And to Watch Captain Zevara, who woke up with a hangover sitting next to the furthest cell in her dungeon and found there were worse places to be.

And lastly, to a Selphid. Jelaqua woke up with a hangover the next day, when the sunlight blasted her true body through the nerves of her eyes. They were fresh, and she was connected, so she groaned in agony. The one good thing about rotten bodies was not feeling a hangover. But the pleasures of a new body were the ability to get drunk, feel—and, of course, feel awful.

Right until she disconnected the hangover sensations to the rest of her body. Jelaqua sighed and rotated her neck. Strange. She felt larger. And furrier. What body was she wearing? That had been some drinking—

And then the Selphid remembered last night. She looked down at the large, beyond [King]-sized bed she was lying in. She whistled softly and half-grinned.

“Wow. I felt that.”

Then she rolled over and saw a head looking at her. Maughin’s face stared at Jelaqua from the bedside table. The Dullahan’s body was lying on his back in his bed. Next to her. Jelaqua’s stifled oath made the Dullahan blink. Once.

“Grandmother’s tits, I—sorry, I forgot that I—”

Jelaqua tried to move her legs, but she, the inner she, was still drunk. And she belatedly realized she was wearing a Raskghar body. Female. Which, given what had gone on last night…

“I’m sorry. I mean, uh—last night—”

She stared at Maughin. He was clearly awake. His head stared back. His body seemed content to lie on its back.

“I enjoyed last night.”

“Oh? M-me too.”

The cold cheeks of the Raskghar warmed a bit, and the pale skin beneath the fur turned slightly orange as Jelaqua blushed. She looked around for some clothes. No—wait—did this Raskghar even have clothes? She spotted something that looked like a loincloth and grabbed it. It would do.

“I’ll get out of your hair! Just give me a second—where’s my belt and bag of holding? Don’t worry, I can get out through a window unless there’s a drop. I’m an expert at covert exits—”

Flustered, she grabbed for her possessions. Maughin blinked at her.

“Why?”

“Well, because—”

Jelaqua turned, a host of things on her tongue. Because she was a Selphid. Because it would really look bad if she went out his door and people put two and two together. Or even one and one. Because she knew alcohol did things, and she really appreciated him not expelling her once he came to his senses—

“Because, you know? This?”

She gestured at her dead body. Maughin stared at Jelaqua. He stared up. He stared down. He blinked.

“So?”

And Jelaqua stared. She looked back at Maughin, and then a huge smile spread across her face. And his lips moved slightly up in return. Jelaqua sat on the bed. This was a first. And then, well…

It was all about chance. People meeting people. You never knew what would happen next.



[Magical Innkeeper Level 38!]

[Skill – Inn: Partial Reconstruction obtained]





6.33 E


Day ?



Dawn struck the city of Manus, illuminating the tops of the buildings first and working its way down the Walled City. It took a while for the sun to reach the center, the secret center of the city where they gathered. And that was fitting; even light could not so easily find Manus’ heart.

And those that walked in the keep, one of the most secure places in the world, did not begrudge the lack of sunlight. They had artificial light of magic and fire; if they longed for the sun, the security of this place, this city, was a welcome trade.

For their city was Manus. It was no Salazsar with its simpering impractical architecture, or even Pallass’ unoriginal, boxed design. Oteslia? Waiting to be burned. Fissival? Weakest of the Walled Cities—practically a miracle it hadn’t been destroyed yet, hah! Zeres?

Zeres was pretty good. But the minds who’d designed Manus had been determined to build a city that would never fall. And, to be fair to them, it hadn’t, which was considerable in itself because Manus, perhaps as a product of destiny or bad luck (to their enemies), was based right on the border zone next to the five Hives and land claimed by the Antinium during the First Antinium War.

For proof of the architect’s determination, you had only to look to Manus as a city compared to other cities. Not Manus’ design—a many-sided star that allowed its walls to overlap and hit any threat—but the way the wall had been built unlike every Walled City still standing.

The wall itself was slanted a few degrees outward, so the tops of the wall put the bottom into shadow. Due to this unique miracle of engineering, it meant that anyone trying to slap a ladder against Manus’ outermost walls would have it fall on their heads by force of gravity alone.

And if they decided to hunker under the battlements, or try some other method of climbing up, the machicolations, the meurtrières—or as they were colloquially known, ‘murder holes’—built into the wall would allow the defenders to mercilessly assail those below with boiling oil, spells, arrows, or just a few rocks dropped from a height.

This overhang was a feature seldom seen in most architecture, let alone on this scale. It required exceptional engineering knowledge to pull off, or even describe. Overhang, machicolations, taluses, and so on—it was a language the defenders of Manus had inscribed into their lexicons. How else could you even describe a city like this?

Beyond the first wall was a glacis and a secondary, inner wall on top of the incline, ready to fire upon the helpless invaders who had finally taken the outer wall, only to find that they were now exposed and facing a second wave of defenses from a situation deliberately designed to place them at the most disadvantageous position possible.

The outer wall protected the first, lowest layer of the city, which could and would be sacrificed in time of attack. It was filled with buildings, of course, mostly residential; the valuable architecture and goods lay past the second wall, in the heart of the city. Should the enemy somehow take that wall, they would still not seize Manus as easily as Pallass, with its open floors. In other cities, an army forced to fight in the streets might have a home ground advantage, but they would be demoralized fighting with an opponent that had summited the one major defense of the city. Manus’ soldiers, on the other hand, would simply retreat to another level of fortifications: that of the inner city itself.

Slanted walkways, choke points, portcullises, plazas that allowed those seeking the inner city to trickle in reinforcements slowly while the defenders had three or even four ways to quickly block an army’s advance—the city was a fantastically fun place to be if you were a child or tourist, with its crazed architecture and unique landscape. Was it fun to live in? Well, Manus’ residents certainly numbered as many as any of the other Walled Cities. And the soldiers didn’t seem to mind it much either.

So, then. By ground, Manus was unassailable. By air, almost likewise. The architecture had been made by Drakes keenly aware of the nature of three-dimensional combat. So Manus incorporated towers, narrow passages that would stymie a flyer, and sacrificial heights that could be evacuated in case of aerial spells. Or Dragon’s fire. Archers could pepper an enemy in a game of cat-and-mouse, giving fliers little opportunity to maneuver.

But again, this was all architecture. What did Manus have besides extreme paranoia? The answer was its academy. The officer’s academy of Manus was to Izril—perhaps much of the world—what Wistram was to [Mages]. The sprawling complex in the inner city boasted a curriculum and facilities even the Titan would admit were impressive.

And if Manus didn’t have a [Strategist] who was Niers’ exact equal, you could argue their school turned out far more graduates and leaders than Niers’ smaller, private academy. Drakes from every city, and Gnolls too, came to Manus to learn the art of war. That was what Manus had to offer.

The largest army. The training schools that produced legends like General Sserys or Dalthson Forwing. The bastion of Drake might against the numberless Antinium. Manus did not export goods but sheer military might. This was the City of War.

It was also fairly poor, as Walled Cities went. Second-poorest, only defeated by Oteslia, in fact. A military juggernaut Manus might be, but the money that went to fuel its military industries and import fine Pallassian steel, Oteslian foods, and the best magics from Fissival along with the quality Drake and Gnoll recruits it so desired meant that it was weak to economic pressure or sanctions.

Yes, Manus had stockpiles of preserved food that could last it for potential decades in siege, but those were rations. It could and did experience food shortages or a lack of goods, which the other Walled Cities often did not. For who wanted to take their goods so close to the Antinium Hives? What could Manus really sell that, say, Zeres or Salazsar could not? Thus, Manus often found itself weaker in areas that did not involve swords.

Still, Manus was only a punching bag in diplomacy until the Walled City went to war. Then its coffers flowed with the spoils its soldiers looted. So other cities treaded carefully around Manus. It was needed.

Manus was a gateway of sorts. A bastion that held the land of Drakes and Gnolls from the Antinium. While it stood, the Antinium could never march forwards without exposing their backs. And the Walled City could be surrounded, but never taken. Not by the Ants. They had broken themselves twice on Manus’ walls without ever managing to take the city for themselves.

That alone had given Manus more value in the last few decades. A renewed importance beyond acting as a war leader in repelling foreign armies from Izril’s shores. It made Manus’ defenses all the more important to maintain. When the Third Antinium War occurred, it would be Manus that stood on the front lines again and dared the Grand Queen’s armies to assail them.

Anyways, that was Manus. The people were still people, and the [Soldiers] weren’t always at war. And in the center of the inner city, the keep, the heart of Manus was guarded at all hours. Walking down these halls now came the rulers and protectors of the city. There were many of them, but a select few, eight in number today, had been called to a council. They walked down into the most secure spot in the keep. Eight came, but the war rooms in the keep could have held dozens of their number. Hundreds in one.

Manus had Lords and Ladies of the Wall. But, unlike other Walled Cities like Salazsar, whose venerated ranks of aristocracy grew fewer with each century, or Pallass, whose nobility were almost unknown in the face of democracy, Manus’ Lords and Ladies of the Wall added to their ranks with each decade. They did not trust in heritage alone for worth. So Manus’ own added to their number, choosing the most valorous, high-level, and sound of judgment and elevated them to their peerage when they appeared.

Those were the Lords and Ladies of the Wall who came to answer the call now. They were [Generals] and [Captains], [Commanders] and [Strategists]. And they acted in conclave, under the lead of their ruler. Manus was an elective monarchy, and their leader ruled for two years with each election unto perpetuity if they did their job well. That meant that, with a host of poor leadership, Manus’ champion would be replaced often, but with a wise one, they could reign for decades unchallenged.

This was the room they stopped in. An angular table—a decagon—allowed for ten seats around itself, cut from one block of black marble. As the eight called to the room took their seats or greeted each other, the table flickered to life. The magical map depicted Izril in miniature.

The geography of the table was perfect, or it had been when the table had been made some two thousand years ago. Some parts of the geography had been corrected to match the present terrain, but clumsily. The [Mage] who had created the map table first had been an artist; those who had endeavored to alter it in centuries past had not had the same level of skill.

Still, it would do. And as the eight waited, the person who had called them here walked from her own tunnel down into the room. Her stance was heavy. Her wings folded. But her gaze was no less determined. Just more tired. She entered the room, and those seated stood at once and bowed to her. The Drake returned their bows with a short nod. She did not speak as she went to one of the chairs—they were all the same—and seated herself. But with perhaps one exception, she was above everyone else in the room.

She had ruled Manus for fourteen years. And she wore the trappings of her station, even in this secure room. A set of armor any Named Adventurer would envy. A helmet crafted to fit the Drake skull, the cold-blue metal emitting vapor even in the cool room. Armor made of wide, shimmering scales of every color, which flashed as they caught the light. Dragonscales.

On her clawed feet were boots whose soles never touched the ground, made of a leather from a hide no one could name. And lastly she carried a glaive, the air around it crackling with an unspent thunder of electricity at her side. Manus’ people knew it as the Fang of Manus, but those who were privileged to wield it as a symbol of authority knew it by its old name. The first name, given to it when Manus was still new.

Parentkiller.

It was said that it could damage Manus’ walls. All these things she carried, and they were heavy. The Drake set her glaive against the table, and the eyes of the eight went to it for a moment. But they had seen it and her armor a hundred thousand times, so they made no comment and focused on her instead. The Drake had blue scales, as blue and pale as the open sky, mixed with white and, a rarity, yellow. Three colors gave her scales a quality as exotic as any Lizardperson’s, although that was an unspeakable insult to her and thus the city.

Because she was Dragonspeaker of Manus. And beneath her armor of state, her clothing was white in mourning. The six Drakes and two Gnolls who filed into the room dared not speak at first as Dragonspeaker Luciva Skybreath settled herself in her seat. She looked around heavily, meeting each eye. Then she began without preamble.

“We are here to discuss the Siege of Liscor. The battle that followed at the Bloodfields. And the ambitions of Tyrion Veltras. We have held our conclave en masse with all our peers. Let us talk frankly now. Your thoughts?”

The Lords and Ladies of the Wall exchanged swift glances. Not of nerves; just waiting to see who had the most pressing opinion. That came from a Gnoll with half of his face damaged, his nose, cheek, and jaw along his left side all scar tissue. He enunciated carefully, and his eyes were sharp despite the damage to the rest of his face.

“If I may, Dragonspeaker. We came close to disaster at Liscor. Pallass’ Assembly was slow to act, and their idiocy could have cost us our gateway to the north. We have been complacent; that much has been discussed. In the coming days and weeks, we shall question how and why Pallass was so lax and, indeed, the circumstances under which the Humans obtained so many trebuchets. It bodes ill. But this has been discussed. I say we have averted disaster, though by no action of any Walled City but luck and Liscor’s own defenses. As for the battle at the Bloodfields, we were dealt a loss. But it was a small battle—”

He broke off, grimacing. His eyes flicked to Luciva’s and away. The table held its collective breath. Not a minute into the conversation and it had already been brought up tactlessly. The Gnoll Wall Lord spoke in a pained voice.

“I beg your apologies, Dragonspeaker. I misspoke.”

Luciva went still for a moment. But then she shook her head quietly.

“No. I agree with your assessment, Wall Lord Makhir. It was a small battle. Larger than the ones we have fought in recent years, but small considering the scope of the wars we have traditionally had with the Humans. In centuries past, in the battles that first formed the Blood Fields, our armies held humanity off by the barest of margins, and the dead lay in such profusion…it was a small battle. If one that I consider beyond all acceptable cost.”

A small exhalation came from all those present. The Gnoll, Makhir, bowed his head.

“I agree. And yet, the remark was insensitive.”

“I take no offense, Makhir. No one here is to blame.”

He nodded and fell silent. Luciva looked about, meeting every eye. And no one made comment. They did not need to. It hung in the air unspoken.

The history books as they were being written would record Tyrion Veltras’ battle at the Bloodfields after being unable to take Liscor as an act of spite—or perhaps calculated gains. The Humans in the North did take the lead in the battle, yet the losses were hardly substantial on either side in the grand scheme of things. But it had cost Dragonspeaker Luciva everything. The reinforcements from Manus had taken part in the battle. And that had resulted in…

Her daughter’s death. Luciva closed her eyes. Just for a moment. And she breathed out slowly. Heavily. In the dark room, illuminated mainly by the magic table’s glow, the Wall Lords and Ladies could see bright flashes from the small opening in Luciva’s mouth as she sighed. And they smelled something acrid.

Oxidization in the air, much like the sparks that the Fang of Manus sometimes gave off. It was one of the reasons why the inner war room was bare of carpets and why all of the other guests, save the youngest, touched the ground or the wall before touching anything metallic. Especially the Gnolls; you could get a damn good shock, and scorch marks in fur were hard to get rid of. On Luciva’s back, her furled wings stirred, but that was the only nod to her emotions she let slip.

Wings and breath. That marked her as Oldblood, but more than that—True Oldblood, the rarest of all those who bore their ancestors’ heritage. Manus was famous for that, too. The old bloodlines ran strong in the city, and the people respected that as much as military genius.

And speaking of old blood…another Drake leaned forwards, filling the silence Makhir’s comments had caused. Her scales were teal, but that was such a poor word to describe the color. The scales shone and flowed, more like water than a solid. And her wings, the yellow spines along her neck, all were sculpted. If Luciva was a shining example of the full extent of her heritage, this young Drake was the radiant sun itself. She was beautiful. And when she spoke, it was crisply, loudly, without a hint of awkwardness.

“A small battle. We lost tens of thousands of Drakes in total. So did the Humans. A small army’s worth, [Hunt Commander] Makhir, Dragonspeaker. It may be few in comparison to the population of Drakes as a species, but it is still a blow. One we must reply to. That’s why we’re here, isn’t it? Let’s not waste time.”

The others nodded soberly. The fact that this Drake looked younger than any other Drake by at least a decade was unremarked upon. She was meant to be here. The next to speak was a Gnoll who had brought his spear to the table.

“Is this a prelude to war? Tyrion Veltras was halted from besieging the city, I remind you all, not only by luck, but by his peers. Magnolia Reinhart was instrumental to that. She threatened her own people to avert the battle.”

One of the two female Wall Ladies, General Milka, leaned in, her claws gripping the table. Her scales were prickling with a static charge as she sat next to Luciva, but she didn’t even acknowledge the jolts of static.

“Does that speak to her practicality, sense of honor, or simply a Reinhart scheme though, Spearmaster Lulv?”

Lulv frowned.

“I am uncertain. But I think her actions have attracted the goodwill of some of our peers. My informants—I submitted a report you may have all read—tell me a Courier bore a message straight from Oteslia’s city to her mansion.”

Another Wall Lord, Aldonss, shook his head, unmoved by the lightning, which seemed to actually congregate around one claw tapping on the table. Lightning powers and Manus had been associated with the leadership for generations.

“I saw the same report. Whoever is making an overture to her is not being subtle. Need we be concerned?”

“Not yet, I think. The north is in more turmoil. They’ve started a political war amongst themselves. I have no doubt it will develop further as the nobles return to their estates. If this is Magnolia Reinhart’s scheme to take advantage of this in a way that harms us, it is hard to see. Whether it benefits her in the north, though…”

Luciva raised her claw to prevent someone else replying. All eyes fastened on her again. The Dragonspeaker nodded.

“So. Back to my question. Is this a prelude to war?”

“Perhaps not against all the north. But Tyrion Veltras has made his position clear.”

Wall Lord Makhir growled, and the others nodded. So did Luciva.

“As have many peers of the north. Let us say Lady Magnolia Reinhart is averse to war. She and her faction do not represent the north. And it is humanity, once again, which has launched an assault that was unprovoked. Do we agree on this as well?”

“Hm. I do.”

“Barring the usual tensions? I do.”

“Sunken ship. Two murders of Human [Merchants] on the roads. Hm—we have not had a major war save for the Terandrian incursion four years back, and that was only backed by Izril’s nobility, which they disavowed quickly. This was unprovoked, I agree.”

Spearmaster Lulv drummed his paws on the table.

“Tyrion Veltras does have a reason. His wife.”

The table fell silent. After a moment, General Milka shook her head.

“That was nearly four years past. He may have cause, I grant, but those who followed him even when it became clear that Liscor was the target have no excuse. Unprovoked I say.”

The rest agreed. So did Luciva. She spread her claws on the table.

“So. Leaving out what must be done in Liscor, the fault with Pallass, Magnolia Reinhart as an individual, I ask this question: given the unprovoked assault on our people, should we reply?”

And then there was silence. The eight paused. After a moment, Lulv spoke up.

“I am against it. Let the north tear itself apart for months or a year. Our interference might unite them.”

Makhir clenched a paw into a fist.

“And if we do not reply? Will another Walled City? They must know we have teeth, or how else will they back away? These are not rational foes. They are like dogs, circling, testing. They must have blood drawn, or they will come back with less fear.”

General Milka nodded. Wall Lords Aldonss and Kishield dissented. The youngest female Drake, who had remained silent, flicked her claws at the map. Wall Lord Aldonss spoke as Luciva glanced at the youngest Drake, trying to read her reaction.

“I agree with Lulv. If we reply, we risk inciting a conflict. And we cannot risk it. Not with the Antinium.”

Aldonss looked around the suddenly quiet table. A few of his peers grudgingly nodded, but Luciva didn’t. She wanted another opinion. So, the Dragonspeaker looked to her left at the youngest Drake and nodded to her. “Rafaema. Your thoughts?”

The Drake was poking at the geography of the continent. She looked up, blinking, as the other members of the Security Council looked at her expectantly. Her tail swished—in embarrassment?—and she replied in the same, clear, definitive voice.

“If they attack us, we attack back. It’s as simple as that, isn’t it? Why are you all debating about it?”

Without hesitation. Manus’ High Command glanced at each other. And one by one, they nodded. All except Lulv and General Milka. The rest had been swayed though, and they turned to Luciva. They didn’t need to voice their opinions; she had eyes.

The Dragonspeaker nodded. She closed her own eyes, thinking for a long moment. Her wings and tail stirred. The others waited. After a minute, then two, Luciva silently opened her eyes.

“It is an action that cannot be ignored. The south must answer.”

A sigh, and that was all. It was done. Lulv grimaced, but beyond that, he listened as Luciva went on.

“We will take the lead in this. The other Walled Cities may know of it—and we may request the best fliers of their cities. The True Oldbloods are needed. Manus’ children need not bear the entirety of the risk alone.”

Rafaema’s tone was hesitant as she lifted a claw, for all her words had been the deciding factor.

“You intend to go forwards with our first plan of ruination?”

“It is the one we decided upon. There is no need to adjust it.”

“Which one is that? I forget.”

Rafaema’s question was answered by Lulv as he leaned over. Luciva ignored the whispering and went on, speaking names, which got nods. A few suggestions were made, more names floated along with the cities the Drakes hailed from. But the majority of the work had been done in the decision-making. The names and plan itself had already been meticulously thought-out and prepared for execution. Manus’ elite didn’t waste more frivolous time talking.

“Thank you for your counsel. I will give the order.”

Dragonspeaker Luciva paused for a moment, then marked a document with her signature, stamped the magical wax with her ring, and it was done. The file would be copied and indexed, and the plan would go into action. Results would take a while to appear. Yet she knew what had been done, and the small action felt heavy.

How personal was this decision? Luciva wondered. She had no answer, but she had gotten no pushback. Not from the Security Council, nor Manus’ most important resident, who sat in this very room.

Nor would the other cities do more than offer minor complaints; she expected only Oteslia to object, and only in words. The only other figure she could name who might interject had drawn these very plans up. The Cyclops had said nothing; it would be done.

So she cleared her throat and brought to docket the only other item worthy of the Security Council’s time.

“One last thing before we adjourn?”



——



Rafaema was already half out of her seat. Surprised, she sat. Even for smaller wars, the Security Council’s time was precious. What could merit this? Luciva gestured.

“Aldonss. Your report on the Noelictus rumors.”

Noelictus? Rafaema’s brow became a mass of confusion. That was a Terandrian nation; completely inconsequential to Manus’ politics. But a few members of the Security Council, like Milka and Makhir, sat forwards suddenly with apparent interest.

“Ah. I intended to save this for the next meeting. To be brief, Dragonspeaker—I have authenticated the reports from Noelictus.”

Lulv was clearly struggling to remember as well.

“What’s this one about? Is that the file flagged on some village and the upset there? War with Ailendamus?”

Luciva shook her head.

“Not Ailendamus. They’re far out of our radius of concern even if they invaded. Rather, it was one of our Grade 9 threats.”

Rafaema almost sent her stack of papers flying. Grade 9?

“We don’t have any of those anymore! Do we? The Immortal Tyrant’s dead. The Antiinium we’ve met aren’t that dangerous, and the rest of them are still on Rhir if they’re even alive…the Deathless are extinct—they were killed when I was young—Old Hungry? No, wait, Noelictus is inland.”

She rattled off the few, very few, threats that warranted Manus’ highest threat classification. ‘Old Hungry’ was the largest Kraken to ever exist. Luciva gave Rafaema a frown.

“None of them. This is about the…Witch.”

A susurration ran through the Security Council. Lulv had been closing his eyes, trying to recall the report. Now he cracked one eye open. General Milka put her claws together. Rafaema hesitated.

“Oh. Her. She hasn’t caused trouble for ages. Nothing major since before I was born.”

“That situation has changed.”

Wall Lord Aldonss informed the Council. His report was extensive, and Lulv and Rafaema made faces when they saw the length.

“I suggest you read it; the entire scheme is, in retrospect, difficult to fully appreciate. The matter is settled. The Witch is on the run, for once.”

Makhir was audibly disappointed.

“Not killed?”

Luciva murmured.

“No one kills that one. The fact that anyone bested her…so. [Witches].”

An unfamiliar class to most Drakes. An old one. Aldonss nodded.

“I recommend vigilance. Not just for her; the [Witches] of the north are apparently moving. Gathering. Whether in support or defense, it’s hard to say. News of Noelictus has not spread openly; the Court of Dusks and Landsreight seems to have tamped rumors down well. But I might suggest a clandestine anti-[Witch] operation if any try to move past Liscor…?”

Luciva frowned as the Security Council murmured. Makhir lifted a furry finger.

“I’m against. Wisdom says we don’t need to join in on that sort of thing.”

The Dragonspeaker agreed.

“Put a proposal together if you feel strongly, Aldonss. Tell me if there’s any credible reports of the Witch arriving on Izril. That’s all. Adjourned.”

Not once did any of them actually say the Witch’s name, which Rafaema thought was overkill. Then again, names had power. And the events of Noelictus were far away. So the Security Council rose to their feet, then strode back to their tasks.

Luciva bade them all farewell one by one. A few of High Command stopped to talk with her or exchange brief goodbyes among themselves; the rest filed out, returning to their homes and other duties quietly. This meeting had most certainly happened, but none of them would ever talk about it.

Only one Drake lingered in the room afterwards with Dragonspeaker Luciva. She was hunting for something she’d dropped. It turned out to be her personal bag of holding, under her chair. Luciva patiently let her fasten it to her belt, then nodded as the young Drake turned.

“What do you make of this, Rafaema? Was that a wise decision or not?”

Rafaema turned, surprised. After a moment, she shrugged slightly, and a bored, even tired expression crossed her face.

“It’s fairly normal to me. Humans have always been Humans. The Antinium bother me more. They’re new.”

She frowned. Luciva nodded seriously. The Antinium were a threat two decades old, but they marked a change in the balance that had existed for ages between Gnolls, Drakes, and Humans.

“Spearmaster Lulv and General Milka were correct in saying that a war with Humans would be disastrous. The Antinium would not be idle. We risk much by provoking them, even in reply.”

Luciva was stating the obvious. Rafaema nodded, tilting her head from side to side, regarding the magical map on the table. She considered Luciva’s statement, then turned around and shrugged again.

“Maybe. But then they would get away with it. And why would we ever allow that?”

And that was that. It was a pure answer, without second thoughts attached. Luciva nodded.

“Thank you for your time. No doubt my peers took your words to heart.”

“I just said what I felt. See you, Luciva. Um…sorry about Hedica.”

“Thank you.”

Rafaema left. That left just Luciva standing at the table. She looked back towards the passage that would lead her up to a place where she could give the orders that would set the plan in motion. But she didn’t go right away. Instead, she sat back down in her seat and leaned on the table, ignoring the magical geography her arms and head rested on. She didn’t know if she’d made the correct decision.

That was why she had called this meeting, to deliberate over one point. Had grief swayed her judgment? Had they been right to listen to Rafaema’s opinion? Luciva didn’t know, but she had made her choice, and she had learned not to second-guess herself. She rested her head on the table, taking some small relief in the fact that no one would intrude on her here, at least not for a bit.

The decision had been made. The plan would work. Manus, and the Drake cities, would have their vengeance for Tyrion Veltras’ aggression, at least in part. But today, all Luciva felt was grief.





Day 1 – Durene



She stood in front of the [Witch]wearing the pointed hat, swaying. The news of Laken’s disappearance, the loss from the battle, her yet-to-be-healed injury all made Durene’s head swim. The girl was tall, strong, with a [Farmer]’s muscles and a build that came from her heritage. Her skin was cracked, grey, and rough. She was taller than almost any Human, six foot eight. And she was strong. But right now, she could have been knocked over by a feather. Words were nearly doing the same trick.

“Where?”

The [Witch] frowned. She was young—although maybe older than Durene by a few years, three at most—and she was dressed in a long, dark-blue robe. Her hat was pointed, and but for a broom and a crooked nose and some warts, she could have been a young version of the [Witches] that Durene had heard about in children’s stories. But Wiskeria’s normally business-like manner, intelligent eyes, and spectacles were…not. Now, she looked worried as she avoided the question.

“Where what?”

“Where are they?”

Durene was in no mood for questions. She clenched her hands, and Wiskeria, mindful of being picked up and shaken like a rag doll again, backed up. At last, she answered, speaking quickly and eying Durene as the half-Troll girl swayed again.

“I don’t know exactly. Durene, you’re in no condition to move just yet. If you’re thinking of following them, forget it. They had Skills and horses. They were trying to catch Tyrion Veltras, I think. And if he’s where I think he is—”

“Just tell me where! In what direction did he go?”

Durene covered her face. She wanted to cry. Nothing was right in the world. She heard nothing for a moment, and then Wiskeria sat next to Durene. She put a hand on the half-Troll girl’s shoulder, and Durene felt it trembling. She looked up and saw the desolation in Wiskeria’s eyes too. They’d failed. The two sat together for a moment, and then Wiskeria spoke.

“South. They’ve all gone south.”

“South…?”

The news hit Durene like a wall. She looked around. She barely knew where she’d woken up. Her chest throbbed. It had been healed, right? It looked—red. Inflamed. Like a really bad cut. Durene touched it and made a sound.

“I don’t feel well. You used a healing potion, right? I think I need another.”

She tried to open her shirt to see the injury. It was being given air to breathe. The scar was bad. Red. Puffy around her grey, cracked skin. Wiskeria looked alarmed. She put a hand on Durene’s arm, trying to steer her towards the bed. But Durene was far too heavy for the [Witch] to move.

“Lie down, Durene. You’re still not healed. You’ve been sick. You need to rest, okay?”

“I need to go after Laken. I think…I’m healed, aren’t I?”

Durene sat automatically. She touched at her chest and winced. The blade had gone straight between her breasts. That Hobgoblin…it was hurting a lot more now. Wiskeria put a hand on Durene’s shoulder. Incredibly, when she pushed, Durene felt herself flop back. The bed groaned.

Durene’s head swam. Wiskeria appeared above her, worried.

“The healing potion worked. But it also caused complications. You have a good [Healer] tending to you. Just—rest. Let me get her. It’s good that you woke up. But you need to rest, Durene.”

“I have to find Laken.”

The world was fading out. Durene kept on blacking out. Red, hazy pain, and Wiskeria’s voice flickered in through her mind, filtering in through sleep as it pulled her down.

“Sleep. You’re going to be okay, Durene. Laken was worried. Just—sleep. And get better.”

“I thought I—”



Day 2 – Durene



It was a bad night and a worse day. It felt like forever. Durene slept and woke in bursts. Her chest was on fire. It burned with a deep, inner pain that tore her apart from the inside. It hadn’t hurt as badly when she was cut in battle. Now, it felt as though she were being burned. Her body was hot. And the pain—it went down inside her chest. Deeper, sickness turned to agony.

“It hurts. It hurts.”

Durene didn’t remember when she first called out for aid. She didn’t for a long time, until it was too much to bear. She’d never had anyone to look out for her. Not since she was thirteen. But she called out anyways.

And they were there. Voices soothed her. She felt cool hands, cloths mopping at her brow. Then—unkind swabbing at her chest, pain bursting there. She pushed away weakly, but the hands came back. And above her, swimming into focus and out of it, were faces. Voices. Some were familiar, others not.

One was Wiskeria’s, kind and worried. Another was stern, sometimes worried, sometimes not, but always filled with steely determination, snapping. Durene heard Mister Prost, Beniar, even Lady Rie, but never the voice she wanted to hear. They mixed together over the long night and the day until the conversation was one confusing blur.

“Not going…increasing…tell him another day.”

“Clearly—my brews and poultices—”

“My authority here. If you—”

“Complexion’s poor…what should I write…?”

“…asking about you, Durene.”

“Further south? Dead gods, what is Tyrion—”

“…here. Continue your conversation—”

“Not getting better? Maybe if…”

“…Another healing…you mad?”

“—No! Drop…and she will die. You…down now and leave my—!”

And then at last, a voice broke through the fevered mists.

“Durene. Laken’s doing well. He’s coming back as fast as he can.”

“Laken?”

Durene opened her eyes. She heard an exclamation. Wiskeria was looking over her. Durene blinked. The [Witch] bent hurriedly.

“How do you feel? Durene?”

“I’m okay. I just had a—nap. I’m hot.”

There was a strange look on the [Witch]’s face.

“You’ve had a fever.”

“Oh. Good I didn’t have a potion. That makes it worse.”

“Yes…you should rest. Laken will want to hear you’re awake. Healer Pirose? Hold on, Durene. Let me just call her.”

Durene put her head back. She shook it gently. Her chest hurt, and it was hot. Not as bad as the night, but her lips were parched.

“I don’t need a healer. Just a nap. I’ll get up tomorrow. Can I have some water?”

“Of course.”

Wiskeria grabbed a pitcher from the bed and offered Durene a cup. The girl drank thirstily and laid back.

“I’ll be fine. Tomorrow…I heal fast.”

“I know.”

Durene closed her eyes. The world swam. She licked her lips and raised her head.

“Can I have another cup of water?”

But Wiskeria was gone, so Durene lay back again. She was hot, then cold. The world swam, and the fever and the pain in her chest began to ebb. Too slowly. She licked her lips, wishing Wiskeria would return. She was a bit too—too weak to grab the pitcher herself. Which was rare. Durene murmured into the air as the night returned.

“Thirsty.”



Day 3 – Durene



The rain woke her up. Durene licked her cracked lips. She heard it pattering overhead. On a roof of some kind. Not hers; she knew the sound the rain made when it hit her thatch. This was different.

Slowly, Durene opened her eyes. She was hot all over. And…weak. The fever hadn’t broken yet. But she was oh so very thirsty. And someone had put a bandage on her chest. Durene frowned at it. She couldn’t ever remember having a cut that needed anything like that.

Normally, even the worst cuts she’d had closed in a few days. And were they tending to her with a [Healer]? She vaguely recalled Wiskeria saying that. That was…nonsense. All Durene needed was some broth, some time, and she’d be right as rain. The worst of the fever was over.

The patter of rain distracted Durene. She sat up unsteadily. The world swam, but she was very, very parched.

“Thirsty.”

She didn’t remember getting out of bed, but she did feel each step in the unfamiliar…room? Yes, it was a room. And here was a door. Durene pushed it open. The rain. She just had to find—

The room past her bedroom looked foreign. New. One of the houses in Riverfarm? Someone had set up a lot of strange equipment here. Clean linens, needles, glowing potions—even scissors and a thin saw for some reason. Strange. Durene stared at it all and then saw the door. It was so close.

Step. Step. Durene chanted to herself, grabbing at a passing chair for support. It groaned under her weight.

“Door. Thirsty. Step. Door—”

And there it was. Durene leaned on the handle, and it opened. She saw the rain coming down in sheets. The landscape was dark, and a bolt of lightning arced down in the distance. It threw the world into relief. Durene saw a row of houses opposite her. A familiar mountain in the distance. Yet the houses were foreign. But the rain was familiar, and when she stepped into it—

Durene sighed. It cooled her skin, soaked the bandage on her chest and her light clothing. She opened her mouth, letting the rain fall into it. How long she stood there, gulping down rain, she couldn’t have said. But then Durene heard a scream.

“Monster!”

Someone shouted it from afar. Durene’s eyes opened with a snap. She looked around. A monster? Instinctively, she looked for the long greatclub she’d been using. But it was gone. Durene’s hands curled into fists. They would do. She stepped forwards—

And saw a girl pointing at her down the street. The child was standing in the door of a house down the street, light at her back. Pointing at Durene. Slowly, Durene stopped. She saw someone rush to grab the girl, a man, and more doors flicker open. The call of ‘monster’ was taken up for a second by another voice, and then someone roared.

“Durene!”

Swaying, the half-Troll girl turned. Prost ran towards her, ignoring the rain that soaked his clothing. He grabbed at her as she leaned on the doorframe.

“What are you doing?”

“I’m thirsty.”

He stared at her. Durene blinked at him. Her chest felt worse than before. The dull pain was back, and the water wasn’t helping. He looked around.

“Get the [Healer]. And shut up whoever’s shouting that. You five, help me bring her inside.”

“I can walk.”

Weakly, Durene protested. Prost looked at her. Durene shook her head.

“I don’t need to be a bother, Mister Prost. I can walk back to my bed.”

“You’re sure?”

Durene smiled. The concern in Prost’s voice reminded her of…a long time ago.

“Yeah. I’ll just—”

She took a step and let go of the doorframe. The world spun.



Day 4 – Durene



The next time Durene woke up, it was in her bed. Her bed…no normal bed could fit her. Wrong house.

She stared up at the ceiling and realized the rain had stopped. This time, she felt much, much more awake. And finally, there was someone in the room. A woman with her back to Durene, dressed in green and yellow clothing, was mixing something in a bowl behind Durene. The girl blinked at the unfamiliar back and sat up.

“Um. Hello?”

The woman whirled about, jumping in shock. She had a stern face. Her eyes widened as Durene swung herself out of bed.

“You’re awake.”

“Yup. Sorry for the inconvenience.”

Durene didn’t know how they’d gotten her back into bed. But she felt better after another sleep. Not as thirsty. And much cooler. She got to her feet. The woman’s eyes widened.

“You shouldn’t be able to get up! We haven’t been able to treat your wound with healing potions, not since it was infected—lie back down!”

“I’m fine. It doesn’t feel bad. I don’t want to be a bother.”

Durene muttered as she looked around the room. She shook her head; her legs felt wobbly, but she felt sure she could make it back to her cottage at least. She walked around the bed, and the woman blocked her.

“Absolutely not. You’re finally getting better, but you’re far too weak.”

“I can walk. Really.”

Durene sat on the bed because the only other option was to pick the woman and put her to one side, and that was fairly rude. The woman—was she the [Healer]?—pursed her lips.

“You can talk and walk. That’s impressive, I’ll grant you. I wouldn’t expect even a Gold-rank adventurer to do that so soon.”

“It was just a fever.”

The half-Troll girl smiled uncertainly. The [Healer]’s brows shot up. Durene anxiously looked down at her chest. But the bandage on her chest had disappeared, and the red gash on her front was only a tiny bit enflamed. The [Healer] noticed the look and nodded.

“You’re pulling together faster than you have any right to. Conscious and able to get up?”

“I can walk if you want me to.”

Durene informed the woman calmly, a bit nettled by the strict tone. Maybe the [Healer] was used to patients other than [Farmers]. She was fine. Three days out of commission was bad enough. The [Healer] just shook her head.

“Lie back down.”

“But I—”

“No arguments. If you can get up tomorrow, I may let you move about. Your injury closed in two day’s span from what it was. That’s healing power. And if that’s so…one day of rest.”

“A day? In bed?”

The thought horrified Durene. She moved to get up again, but the [Healer] placed a hand on her shoulder.

“[Healer]’s orders. I insist.”

“I understand, Miss. But I can’t just sit here and—”

“[Order of the Samaritan]. Lie down.”

The woman’s eyes flashed. Durene found herself laying back and pulling the sheets over herself before she knew what she was doing. She blinked up at the woman. The [Healer] sighed.

“You used a Skill on me?”

“I’ll use more if I have to. I don’t intend to lose you, not after a battle that hard-fought.”

That seemed like a poor reason. Especially because Durene had lost that battle. So had the army. The half-Troll girl closed her eyes for a moment, remembering. That was why the woman was here.

“Fine. I’ll stay in bed. Don’t worry about me. You’re tending to the others, right?”

“Others?”

The woman looked blank as she reached for her poultice or whatever was in the bowl. Durene’s head rose a bit, and she frowned.

“The others from the battle. How’re they doing?”

The [Healer] had a very odd look on her face as she turned.

“Them? They’re fine. I’ve seen to them already.”

“Oh. Well, don’t let me keep you. I’m right as rain. Sorry I walked out yesterday.”

“Of course.”

Another frown. The woman felt at Durene’s brow. Then she shook her head.

“Your fever’s broken. Tomorrow, if you’re well, we’ll let you stand up. Please don’t get up. I’m tired of having to chase you down.”

“You’ve done it before?”

“Six times already. You don’t remember? You keep looking for your cottage. Or this [Emperor] of yours.”

The woman smiled drily. Durene blushed. She lay in bed as the woman checked her scar and then dabbed something cool from the bowl over it.

“I’m sorry. But I’m awake now.”

“Yes. You are. And since you’re still awake, I suppose you could do with some food.”

Durene considered that.

“I am hungry. Do I have to stay in bed for that too?”

“Yes. Although you may sit up.”

So saying, the [Healer] left the room. Durene sighed and sat up. After an interminable amount of time where Durene just stared vacantly at the weird mixtures and the mortar and pestle on the table across from the bed, she heard the footsteps and saw the [Healer] come into the room with a large bowl.

“A stew. Let’s see you keep this down.”

“That’s not much. I could eat three bowls. I’m ravenous.”

The woman blinked at Durene. The girl blushed. She ate a lot, but it wasn’t as if she gained weight—well, not fat. The [Healer] shook her head.

“No matter how you feel—here. Do you need a hand?”

Durene shook her head. She took the spoon, lifted the bowl up, and began to eat. There were bits of meat floating in the lentil stew. It was hot, good—she barely tasted it. The stew would have burned Laken’s tongue, but Durene had finished the bowl in under a minute. The [Healer] looked shocked. Durene smiled a touch smugly.

“Told you.”

“Can you keep it down?”

“Of course!”

The woman folded her arms.

“Give it fifteen minutes.”

“Can I stand up while I wait?”

“No.”

“Then can I do something? I’m bored.”

The woman considered this.

“Wait.”

She left the room and came back quicker this time. Silently, she handed Durene a book. The [Farmer] turned [Paladin] blinked at it.

“What’s this?”

“A book. If you need to entertain yourself, use this.”

Durene hesitantly stroked the cover. The book was bound expertly, and it wasn’t nearly as worn as the trio of books she’d seen on Miss Yesel’s shelf. She opened it and saw a lot of neat words arranged on the page. They blended together seamlessly on crisp paper. Durene’s eyes widened.

“This must be expensive!”

“Mildly. You may borrow it. I’ll take your bowl.”

The [Healer] did just that. She left the room and came back to see Durene paging through the book restlessly. The girl closed it, embarrassed, and the [Healer] frowned.

“Not to your taste?”

“No…but it’s just that it’s a lot of words. And I can’t—er—”

“Ah.”

The woman looked at Durene’s blush, then the book. She instantly understood what Durene was saying. Durene hung her head in shame. She couldn’t read it. She knew her basic letters and numbers, but a book wasn’t something she’d ever owned. She didn’t know if anyone in Riverfarm—the old Riverfarm—could read that well either. Mister Prost could, and a few others, but reading wasn’t a necessary skill. The [Healer] briskly took the book back from Durene.

“That’s fine. I suppose there’s no help for it. If you wish, I will read to you. Otherwise, I can ask and see if there’s something you can do with your hands. Knitting? Carving?”

“I wouldn’t mind knowing what the book was about. If it’s no bother, Miss.”

Durene blushed again. She had to admit she dearly wanted to know what the lovely tome contained. The front was a title—she could make out a few words, but the fancy calligraphy and the plain, pale-purple binding didn’t tell her much. The [Healer] nodded.

“Very well. It is something of a good story. I’m rather taken with it myself. This is a chronicle of an adventurer’s life. Not an adventurer, but…the tales of Thivian Stormless, the famous hero known as the Lightning Thief. Do you know of him?”

Wide-eyed, Durene nodded. That was an old name. An adventurer who’d passed away not too long ago. One of the names everyone knew, of course. He’d died when she was…eight?

“He has a book? I remember hearing about him dying. They said he died at sea, fighting a horde of sea serpents. And they said he could still steal lightning as it fell from the sky. Even Archmage Amerys’ lightning! Is that true?”

The [Healer] smiled.

“I think he died in his bed. But I do recall him as well, and I even had the privilege of seeing him at a banquet once. He was a talented [Thief]; he stole any number of hearts even in his late years.”

“You saw him? Really?”

The [Healer] coughed, a blush rising to her cheeks.

“It was what prompted me to get the book. I will read it if you’d like.”

“Please. But—can I have another bowl of soup?”

On cue, Durene’s stomach rumbled. The [Healer] blinked.

“You’re hungry still?”

Durene’s eyes darted to the bowl. It wasn’t a bowl meant for a single serving; you could fit half a pot in it. It was probably meant to hold salad, not soup. Durene was embarrassed, but nodded.

“I’m sure I can keep it down.”

“Well…let me get another bowl. I’ll read to you, and if you’re still hungry…”

The [Healer] took the bowl and left. Durene sighed and sat in her bed. She felt at her chest; her skin was still tender. The injury really had been bad; normally, her skin could shrug off even her kitchen knife when it slipped. That Hobgoblin with the axe…Durene closed her eyes. Then the door opened.

This time, the [Healer] was back with a bowl of soup and half of a rounded loaf of crusted bread. Durene’s stomach rumbled loudly, and she reached out. The [Healer] blinked as Durene tore into the bread. She kept the bowl and watched as Durene ate the loaf down.

“Eat slower. You’ll give your stomach a cramp.”

“I always eat like this. And I’m hungry.”

Durene complained. She reached out, and after a moment’s hesitation, the woman handed her the bowl. The soup went down slower this time, but still quick. Durene tasted it and savored the bites; the bowl was gone in a few minutes. The [Healer]’s eyes widened as Durene handed her the bowl back.

“You weren’t exaggerating, were you?”

“I said I was hungry. I could do a third bowl. Probably.”

The woman opened her mouth. Then she just shook her head.

“You’ll wait an hour this time. But if you’re still hungry then, I’ll get you more. Dead gods. Have I been underfeeding you this entire time?”

“Everyone thinks I eat less than I do. It’s fine.”

Durene sighed. She sat back, and the [Healer] sat across from her. The woman eyed her, then opened the book she carried.

“Well, you’re certainly the most lucid I’ve seen you. Incredible, really. Your fever broke yesterday, and you’re already able to stand.”

“That’s normal.”

“Not for someone who’s gone through what you have.”

Durene supposed that was true. An axe blow to the chest would put down most people, healing potion or not. She shrugged.

“I could really walk around. Honest.”

The woman pursed her lips.

“Tomorrow. As I said. You’re not to leave this bed except to use the bathroom.”

“Fine. But what will I do?”

“Listen. I’m going to read this book to you, unless you object?”

The woman’s brows raised. Durene yelped.

“What, for the rest of the day? Until I go to sleep?”

“That’s part of my job. And it’s why I’m here. I want to see how long you can stay up.”

“I can stay up all day, thanks. You’ll read that entire book and then some.”

The half-Troll girl folded her arms. The [Healer] just shook her head.

“That remains to be seen. Now, sit there until your stomach’s digested that food. Don’t lay back or it may come up.”

She opened the book. Durene settled against the headboard comfortably. She felt odd and couldn’t place why. Then she realized that not once had the [Healer] looked askance at her skin. And she looked completely normal around Durene. Well, she had been tending to her for three days. The [Healer] opened the book, licking one finger as she flicked to the first page.

“Very well. Let me know if you feel sick or ill at any moment. Ahem.”



Five days into the storm that raged across the sea, and the ships still sailed on. One ahead, five behind. The Bloodtear Pirates, one of the most feared and dangerous [Pirate] navies in the world, were in hot pursuit of the Waveblade, the stalwart vessel captained by Gallheart herself, a Drake with two scars across her face, one of the finest [Ship Captains] to ever leave Zeres’ harbor.

She stood on the bow of her ship where she had lashed herself to the wheel, and still she steered her ship onwards, though it had been five days since the storm began, and she had neither slept nor abandoned her post.



Durene’s eyes widened as the [Healer] turned a page. The woman’s voice was soft, and she was no natural reader, but the words and language were unlike any story Durene had ever heard told. It had form, structure—it wasn’t a fireside tale, but something as good as the travelling [Storyteller] had told. No, better. The [Healer] smiled as Durene sat up. She began the second page.



The storm blew even fiercer, threatening to drown the ships. Yet the Bloodtear Pirates did not relent. The Waveblade had a treasure they sought, and so even as the waves threatened to capsize the ships with each swell, they sailed through them. Gallheart took her ship through one wave, and then the next. But the third caught her unawares, and it bore down on them. She cursed as she looked up at the waters rushing down as one of the Bloodtear Pirate ships turned over, swept away by the water.

“Damn them and this mission,” she swore. “If this is the end…!”

And it was at that moment that the waters disappeared. The wave crashed down, but for a hundred feet, from bow to stern, the air was suddenly clear. Waveblade sailed through the wave as two more Bloodtear Pirate ships were broken by the massive wave. But someone had taken the waters that would have doomed Gallheart’s ship. She turned her head.

And there he stood. The [Thief] of legends. He stood on her decks, smiling, his eyes, one real, one enchanted, glittering. Thivian Stormless. He swept Gallheart a bow.

“Why the startled look, Captain Gallheart?” He laughed lightly. “Surely you didn’t forget the Lightning [Thief] was your guest of honor? If I can steal a bolt from the heavens, a wave is child’s play. Or didn’t you think the legends were true?”

“If I thought the legends were true, I’d have wondered how Thivian Stormless could have landed us in the worst storm this side of the century,” Gallheart snapped back. “Tell me this cargo’s worth it or I’ll throw you overboard now and damn our contract.”

“Once more, Captain Gallheart. The fate of Baleros may rest on it. If the Eye of Medusa is not returned, there might be war between the Gazers and the entire continent. Take us on. And you’ll be rewarded in not just gold, but glory.”

“Gold’s enough for me. Glory fills no holds. Just you keep your hands at the ready, Human. Because there are two ships on our back, and I have no doubt more seeking to block us. Once this storm ends, we’ll get our bearings…”



Durene listened as the [Healer] flipped from page to page. And the book unfolded, a tale of daring and wonders caught on page. The half-Troll girl had never heard the like. Her eyes were fixed on the book as she sat, forgetting about her desire to get up. And, true to both their words, the [Healer] read into the night and Durene listened, pausing only to use the bathroom thrice and eat a large dinner.

The book closed with Thivian Stormless’ last daring tale, and Durene felt her eyes flicker shut moments later in the darkness. The [Healer] regarded her and shook her head as she blew out the candle she had lit.

“Incredible.”

That was the last word Durene heard before she fell asleep.





Day 5 – Durene



Durene heard the same word the next day. She was on her feet this time before the [Healer], whose name was Pirose, even awoke. The older woman left her room to find Durene scarfing down a plateful of bread, salami, some hard cheese—all that Durene had found in the cupboards. The half-Troll girl paused guiltily, but Pirose just shook her head.

“Incredible.”

“What?”

Durene tried to hide the food behind her back. Pirose ignored that. She gestured to Durene on her feet.

“If I didn’t know you were half…well, I would have assumed you had some kind of healing Skill. Without healing potions, an infected injury that deep usually takes months to heal—if it even gets better. You’re a lucky young woman.”

“Well, it’s long for me. Four days is the longest I’ve ever been out. And I once cut my arm nearly to the bone. But I was back the next day. I heal quick.”

Proudly, Durene stuck out her chest then she remembered the scar. The [Healer] blinked at her and opened her mouth. She saw Durene checking her chest; the tip of the scar was just visible at the hem of Durene’s dress. The [Healer] frowned as Durene lifted a hand.

“Don’t touch it. And don’t lie on your chest when you sleep, obviously. It’s still yet to heal. You may recall that you were sick? The healing potions are too dangerous to use even now, so it’s had to heal on its own. You’ll still be weak for…at least a day if your healing continues to be this quick. And you’ll have a scar.”

“I know. Thank you for looking after me.”

Durene mumbled. She absently bit into her breakfast. Pirose shook her head.

“I’m just doing my job. I was sent by Lord Veltras to ensure that Riverfarm’s wounded were cared for. You were my last patient.”

“Lord Veltras sent you?”

Durene nearly choked on her next bite. Pirose smiled.

“Of course. He struck an alliance with your [Emperor]. Emperor Godart, isn’t it? Part of that was a [Healer] who could tend to the injured. Especially you. Lord Veltras is not a man to forswear himself. I am his best [Healer]. Until I came here, I was with the main war camp. I’ll be travelling north tomorrow, I think. I expected another week until I was sure you wouldn’t relapse, but this is astonishing.”

“I’m just good at healing. Thank you. Uh, Miss Pirose?”

Durene was suddenly shy, as if the two hadn’t spent last night gasping over Thivian’s exploits in the book. Pirose smiled, and her stern face warmed slightly.

“My job is reward enough when my patients live. As I said, it was a challenge this time. I know infections, but you did as much work as I. When I think of the state of your wound when I first arrived—idiots with healing potions should be hung.”

“You mean Beniar? What, did he pour a healing potion on me?”

“Three. Your people couldn’t tell that they were accelerating your illness with each potion. I can understand that as you were being carried off the battlefield, but your [Witch] friend should have known better. Then again, she was the one who stopped them from killing you. Idiots.”

Pirose sighed. She walked past Durene and found a kettle. She seemed used to the house they were in, enough to make tea without having to look for anything. Durene fidgeted. Were they in a village other than Riverfarm? This couldn’t be Pirose’s home; it was far too modest and newly built.

“I always thought it was weird how healing potions made people sick like that. They cure normal wounds right off. So why do sicknesses get worse? Sometimes, they’ll fix my cold right off. Other times, they get worse.”

Again, the [Healer] eyed Durene.

“They shouldn’t ever be used in times of sickness. And with respect, the healing potions you probably use shouldn’t have that effect either. Healing potions are essentially regenerative energy poured into the body. They let the body heal fast, to the point where it ‘remembers’ being before it was hurt. That’s why they work so well even with serious injuries. Of course, they can also hinder; you can’t build muscle since a potion will just revert any gains you make. And the same goes for illnesses.”

“It gives the sickness strength?”

Pirose pursed her lips as the kettle boiled on the small fire she’d lit. She poured the tea into a cup, caught herself, and poured Durene a cup too. She offered the girl a cup, and Durene tasted the liquid.

“Close. In theory, a good potion augments the body’s strength to fight off the sickness. And a master [Alchemist]’s potions will do that; they’ll allow the body to recover from the illness if it’s at all possible, doing the work of weeks or months in seconds. But in practice, most of the energy goes to the illness for some reason. So suddenly your small cold has more strength than your body, and it gets worse and turns into something potentially deadly. I can’t imagine how strong your body must be against disease. Well, I’ve seen it first-hand.”

“I’m tough.”

So saying, Durene gulped her tea. She knew the liquid was close to boiling, but it was only hot on her tongue. Pirose blew on her cup, eying her.

“Even so. Your infection was beyond bad. I’ve given your people a lecture on everything they did wrong. Again, your [Witch] friend saved your life. Her craft saved you in the time it took for me to arrive. You should thank her when you see her next.”

“It wasn’t that bad, was it? Me being sick?”

Shocked, Durene prodded at her chest. Pirose slapped her hand down and sipped her tea. Her silence spoke volumes. Durene looked around the cottage.

“Well, thank you. I owe you so much. Is—where am I? Are we in Riverfarm?”

Pirose’s eyebrows shot up.

“Of course. This is one of the new houses built. I’ve been staying here—with little to want, I might add. Except for new reading material. The [Steward], Mister Prost, has been very accommodating. As has Lady Valerund.”

“Rie? Prost? Where are they? Can I see them? I can walk today.”

Pirose nodded.

“I told them you were well yesterday. I think they’ll want to meet with you. But before I let you rush out that door—”

She held up a finger as Durene started for it. The girl turned. Pirose frowned.

“You’ll do some tests, and I’ll ask you some questions before I’m satisfied you’re well. Don’t lie. I have a truth stone for difficult patients.”

“I’m fine. Really. I feel great. A bit weak, but I can do anything you want.”

Durene patted one arm. Pirose put down her cup.

“You can prove it to me. Take a breath.”

She ran a series of quick tests, from listening to Durene’s lungs as the girl breathed in and out to making Durene stand on one leg and answer some questions about her childhood. Pirose didn’t seem convinced Durene was fully recovered; she asked about the color of Durene’s urine and even what her other leavings looked like this morning, and she forced Durene to strip.

Blushing fiercely, Durene let her inspect the scar with practiced fingers and answered truthfully that she could barely feel the fingers. Pirose might have kept asking questions but for the strength test; when she handed Durene a length of thin firewood and asked her to snap it, the half-Troll girl, exasperated, picked up a log and snapped it in half.

The spray of splinters shot across the room and into the fireplace. Pirose stared. Durene hadn’t even used her knee; she’d just flexed the wood, and it had split like that. She stared at the wood; it wasn’t even that dry. Durene abashedly dropped the wood pieces.

“Sorry about the mess.”

“Well, that proves that. You have a Skill? You must. Even for your size, that was impossible.”

“I do, um, have a Skill. [Enhanced Strength].”

Pirose’s eyes widened.

“On top of your natural body? Dead gods. One wonders how you were ever hurt to begin with. You could have killed a warrior in steel plate with your fists.”

“I fought the Goblin Chieftain. I think he was their leader. He had an enchanted axe. I nearly got him. But he got me.”

Durene frowned and sat down in a chair. Pirose silently regarded her and then the wood littering her floor.

“That’s a battle as I understand it. But you’ve satisfied me that your body’s well. If tomorrow I check and your scar’s nearly healed, I’ll consider you fit for anything.”

“Thank you. Again.”

Pirose smiled softly.

“It was my duty. No more, no less.”

She showed Durene where the broom was, and the two were finishing sweeping up the wood splinters when a sharp rapping came from the door. Someone opened it before either woman could answer, and a voice called out.

“Durene! You’re awake!”

The half-Troll girl turned. She saw a flash of dark red, a sweeping dress patterned with silver. Beautiful, costly fabric, something completely alien to Riverfarm. A face with skin not roughened by weather. Painted nails, lilac-touched lips, and two sparkling indigo irises. The mouth lifted into a delighted smile as Lady Rie Valerund walked, no, glided towards Durene. The girl froze up instinctively, but Rie threw her arms around Durene and hugged her.

“Rie?”

“It’s a delight to see you, Durene. No—a miracle. After your third fever, I thought—Miss Pirose, can she be on her feet so soon?”

Lady Rie turned to Pirose, looking mildly alarmed. The [Healer] inclined her stately head, combining a nod with a slight curtsey for Lady Rie.

“I judge her to be almost recovered, Lady Valerund. When the sickness was defeated, her strength came in a rush it seems. She went from barely lucid to being able to stay up nearly a day yesterday. This morning, she rose before me.”

“Amazing. Truly. We owe you a debt of gratitude, Miss Pirose. If there is anything I or the demesne of Riverfarm can do for you…His Majesty wishes it to be known that no reward is too large.”

Lady Rie bowed slightly. Pirose paused.

“The offer by His…Majesty is most gracious. But I am paid by Lord Veltras for my services. I executed my duty to the best of my abilities, as I do with any patient. I am only glad Durene is so healthy.”

“Just so. Durene, please sit. You look well, but why risk it? Here. Prost will be here shortly. He will be as delighted to see you as I, I’m sure. We’ve already spread the word that you’re on your feet; there are many waiting to greet you. But we shall take it slowly. You have so much to catch up on…”

Rie fussed over Durene, guiding her to one of the chairs in the small living room that was combined with the kitchen. Bemused, Durene sat, watching the [Lady] arrange her dress to sit in a humble chair herself.

This was not the Rie that Durene remembered. The woman Durene recalled was just as elegant and beautiful, but the girl distinctly recalled hating Rie’s guts. Not least because Durene was convinced Rie was attempting to become closer to Laken than she had any right to be with Durene at his side.

She was exquisite, that Durene had to admit. Compared to the plain, honest folk of Riverfarm, a [Lady] like Rie was a brilliant, rare creature, exotic and wonderful. And scheming. She often tried to talk with Laken privately, or flatter him. And while he had ignored most of her attempts, Durene hadn’t missed any of it. How could she? It was obvious.

How did you seduce a blind man? With soft hands and a soothing voice. And that was what Lady Rie had and Durene didn’t. The half-Troll girl had been paranoid that Rie would manage to trick Laken in some way, and she had hated Rie with all her heart—she’d had the feeling Rie regarded her as an obstacle, not as competition or a rival. So Durene was naturally cautious, remembering their history.

But today—all of Durene’s jealousy and worries not only seemed to be groundless, but her old emotions also felt far away. Durene found herself smiling at Rie. She was so grateful to see a familiar face, and the [Lady] felt completely genuine.

“What’s been going on, Rie? Why are you so upset? I’ve only been out…half a week?”

“Half a—”

The [Lady] didn’t even blink at Durene not addressing her by her title, but she inhaled sharply. She looked at Durene, and then at Pirose, who made a face and shrugged. Durene looked from woman to woman, and Rie was opening her mouth when the door opened.

“Durene? Are you—”

A weathered man stepped into the room. Prost was every bit as worn from his old class—[Farmer]—as any of the men and women Durene knew. But he was stalwart despite it all, and of late, he looked taller. More distinguished. And certainly kinder than the man Durene had known. Indeed, when he saw Durene, he strode over and hugged her as well!

“Durene! Girl. It’s a sight for sore eyes to see you on your feet. But should you be out of bed?”

“I’m fine, Mister Prost. Really! I feel as strong as ever. I’m sorry to have worried you!”

She must have been really badly hurt for all of them to be so anxious. Durene smiled, and the man stepped back, looking her up and down. His eyes fixed on the top of Durene’s scar, and she blushed. He looked away hurriedly. Pirose made a disapproving sound.

“We need to get you into proper clothing.”

Lady Rie nodded at the thin dress Durene wore. The girl nodded and only now wondered where the clothes had come from. They fit her well, and there hadn’t been anyone close to her height or build in Riverfarm. The [Lady] went on.

“I can have someone fetch your clothes. And we’ve kept your cottage maintained—as well as we can with that bird attacking anyone on sight. As for the rest, we’ll get you sorted, don’t worry, Durene. You can take it slow these next few days. Assuming Mistress Pirose thinks it’s wise?”

“I’m leaving tomorrow if Durene continues to heal at this rate.”

Pirose replied blandly. She sat at the opposite side of the table as Durene, Lady Rie, and Prost sat around the dining room. Prost still looked incredibly relieved to see Durene on her feet, but Rie’s eyes were now flickering to Durene’s face, and a cautionary frown was written on her features. Durene felt her own hint of reserve return as she looked at the [Lady].

“What is it, Rie?”

The woman pursed her lips and looked at Pirose.

“How much do you remember, Durene? Or should I say, has Miss Pirose told you what’s been going on?”

“Nothing. But I remember everything. I remember the battle. Us losing—the Goblins beating us back. And that Hobgoblin with the axe.”

Durene closed her eyes. The room went quiet. Slowly, the [Paladin] remembered the battle. It had all been going so well. She’d been leveling up, they’d been harrying the Goblins—until the Goblins reached the city and took it in an hour. Then Durene and the army that Wiskeria had called for had camped, anxious, waiting for a fight until the Goblins started hurling rocks at them. Wiskeria had been nervous, debating whether it was time to attack. Then she’d gotten the message, and they’d gone in. They’d been winning. Right up until—

“We lost. Right?”

Rie hesitated. It was Prost who nodded. His voice was low.

“We did. The Goblins overran our lines. We were retreating—we might have been wiped out but for Lord Veltras’ army. They saved us.”

“I remember. Wiskeria said. But was it really Tyrion Veltras? The Tyrion Veltras?”

Durene looked wide-eyed at Prost. He nodded, and his gaze reflected a touch of the awe she felt. Tyrion Veltras. He was a [Lord], perhaps the most important [Lord] in the north. A real war hero, a man who controlled a huge amount of land—he had sent his army to save Riverfarm?

“They pushed the Goblins back. And Lord Veltras himself rode to Riverfarm. He took out a group of Goblins that had tried to attack Emperor Laken. Well—it was more than that. But he showed up just in time, and no one can deny that. We’d have lost you, everyone fighting the Goblins, and perhaps Riverfarm and His Majesty himself but for Tyrion.”

“And then Laken went with him. Why?”

That question had plagued Durene since she woke up. Prost and Rie exchanged a glance.

“They struck a deal. Lord Veltras needed Riverfarm’s trebuchets. They’re invaluable. Or rather, they were. His Majesty, Tessia, the engineering team—they all left after building as many trebuchets as they could. They went with the army.”

“To fight the Goblins?”

“Um. In part.”

Again, both older Humans looked at each other. Pirose just grimaced into her teacup. Rie’s fingernails absently flicked delicately. She looked at Durene.

“What else do you remember, Durene? Anything after that?”

“I—had a conversation with Wiskeria. She told me I was out for a week and that I couldn’t go after Laken. I guess I got sick again because I had to sleep. I remember having a fever the next day. I heard you talking—you were all pretty worried. And then I woke up and went out into the rain. Sorry about that, Mister Prost.”

The man nodded, blinking. He looked at Rie, and she shook her head.

“Anything else?”

“Um—the next day I woke up, and I was feeling a lot better. I could get on my feet, but Miss Pirose had me sleep. We read a book. And today I felt just fine.”

Durene looked around. She had a sinking feeling that something was off. The looks Prost and Rie were giving each other and her told her something was amiss. Both looked back at Pirose. The [Healer] shrugged.

“Her sense of time’s off, but her memory is quite good. There’s nothing to worry about. But you should tell her now.”

“Tell me what? Is something wrong?”

Rie nodded. She smiled tightly and smoothed her dress.

“You’re largely correct, Durene. All that happened. But I’m afraid you’ve misunderstood how long you were sick. It wasn’t a handful of days you were lying abed.”

Durene could see that. She frowned.

“How long was it then? A week?”

Prost and Rie shook their heads. Durene whistled.

“Two weeks? No, three? It can’t be longer than three.”

She looked from face to face. But their expressions were grave. Prost shook his head slowly.

“It’s been far longer than that, Durene.”

“But I remember…”

Durene broke off. That first day had been a blur of voices and pain. And now that she thought of it, the sky had been all too clear after that night of rain where she’d gone outside. But it couldn’t have been longer than three weeks, surely? She looked around, growing restless. Rie hesitated. It was Pirose who stepped in. The woman spoke calmly, putting down her cup.

“I can’t tell you how long you were initially sick for, Miss Durene. It took me two days to reach Riverfarm from the main force with Lord Veltras. I haven’t his movement Skills, and I had to travel with an independent escort from his command. When I got here, the potions had accelerated the infection in your chest. It was into your lungs and almost down to the bone. I didn’t think I could save you, even with my Skills and techniques. But somehow, you recovered, and faster than anyone could have dreamed. Even so, that healing process…have you seen people taken sick by infection?”

“Once. Davimy got cut bad around his leg. He took weeks before they had to cut off his leg. Then he got sick and died two days later. And sometimes I know it takes weeks, but you see a [Healer] and use poultices. You can move about unless it’s real bad.”

Durene muttered. Illness and infection weren’t too common, even in Riverfarm, what with potions. And when it happened, it was bad. But…she looked up. At Rie.

“How long was I asleep? Just tell me.”

The [Lady] nodded and took a breath.

“Durene, you’ve been fighting your illness for fifty days. Today is the fifty-first day since the battle with the Goblins.”

The world spun. Durene put one hand on the table. Prost reached for her arm, but Durene stood up.

“That can’t be! Fifty-one days? I was only out for a few days! A week! I would have remembered that. I—”

“You had a fever for weeks. Three, in fact. Each one worse than the last. When Prost found you in the rain, the last one was breaking. But while you had them, we thought you might die. You didn’t wake up. And the infection was so deep—I saw it. And I’ve never seen anyone survive a wound like that.”

Rie shuddered. Prost nodded, looking pale. Durene looked wordlessly at Pirose. The [Healer] nodded.

“The healing potions closed the wound, but the disease took root. And when that idiot adventurer—”

“Beniar.”

“—when he decided you weren’t healing fast enough, he accelerated the infection rather than letting it heal naturally. If you’d just stayed and rested after the [Witch] who treated you gave you the first potion, you’d have been fine. As it was, you survived. But it has been fifty-one days.”

Durene stared. She looked around the table at Prost’s grave face, Rie’s anxious one. At last, the pieces fit. This house, Pirose being accustomed to living here—the houses she hadn’t recognized.

“What happened while I was gone? Tell me. Please?”

She whispered it, unsteady. Rie stood up. She laid a hand on Durene’s arm gently.

“More than I can say, Durene. Don’t worry; Riverfarm isn’t in danger from the Goblins anymore. And—you may need to sit. There’s a lot that’s gone on that you need to know about. Where to begin? The Goblin Lord’s dead, for one. But the siege—well, it’s been complicated.”

“Siege? What siege?”

Another round of glances. Durene felt as though she were meeting the strange folk that Laken had summoned. The fae. She raised her voice. She couldn’t help it.

“Where’s Laken? I want to see him. He’s back now, right?”

It had been fifty-one days. Surely he was back in Riverfarm from wherever he was gone? Why wasn’t he here? But the look in Prost’s eye—he shook his head.

“He’s still not back yet. Durene. He went down to Liscor. You know where that is?”

The name was only vaguely familiar. Durene’s heart sank.

“Isn’t that a Drake city?”

“The northernmost one. Right in the High Passes.”

“But that’s hundreds of miles away. He went there? Why? Did the Goblin Lord run that far? Why did Tyrion Veltras need trebuchets?”

Aghast, Durene looked around. Prost hesitated. Rie bit her colored lip.

“It was an entire event. And while I can assure you His Majesty is safe, Durene, it may be weeks before he returns still. And his prisoners will bring more trouble than I can imagine. As if we don’t have enough for him to deal with when he returns.”

“Prisoners?”

The world was shaking on its axis. Durene looked around, breathing faintly. She wanted to run, burst out of the door so Prost, Rie, Pirose, all of them would stop looking at her like this. Cautiously, as if she might explode from what they were keeping from her. Or lash out.

“Goblins. Hundreds of them.”

“Goblins?”

Durene’s incredulous, horrified look made Rie stand up again. She walked past Durene and poured herself some cold tea.

“We’ll explain everything. But before you leave, Durene, you must understand. Riverfarm’s changed. It’s larger. Much larger than you remember. And we have more problems to deal with. Emperor Laken Godart cannot return quick enough. So much is different. But Durene. It’s going to be alright.”

Rie laid a warm hand on Durene’s shoulder. The girl let it happen. She met Prost’s concerned gaze, and saw the reserve in Pirose’s eyes. And Durene held still. Laken was gone. He was gone. And she—she looked around, and everything was different. So very different.

When she had gone to war, Riverfarm had been a collection of nearly six hundred people, already bursting at the seams, the remnants of a few villages banding together.

Today? It was over two thousand.





6.34 E


Day 51 – Durene



Fifty-one days. At first, Durene couldn’t believe it. But when she stepped into Riverfarm and looked around, she had to accept it. The village she knew was gone.

Riverfarm had always been a village of a hundred people, sometimes more, sometimes less. A family moving out of the village was serious business. And while the avalanche had effectively cut Riverfarm’s population by a quarter even with Laken’s miraculous intervention, it had still felt small, even with Windrest and the other villages’ inhabitants joining it.

Durene had been inordinately proud of the first row of houses that had been freshly built by Riverfarm’s folk under Laken’s guidance. She had been there as he designed the village’s layout with Prost and Lady Rie. And hadn’t that been amazing? Designing how a village should be built rather than just letting folk build where they pleased?

But it had order, function. Laken had shown Durene how it was better to have organization, to allow for wells to be dug so water could be drawn to fight a fire or so old folk wouldn’t have to walk far for it. And Laken was perfect for the job because his [Emperor]’s Skill allowed him to ‘see’ the landscape and plot out the village even better than Prost could with maps or a vantage point.

The irony of a blind man being the one to understand how a village should work had been lost on no one. And yet, that had been the excitement of the future. At the time, Durene had vibrated with energy imagining how Riverfarm might one day look. But now? It lay before her.

The street of houses was neat. Swept of debris, but made of stone. The paving of the road would come later. First, houses had been essential. So these had gone up. One after another, all built the same, but spacious, each one able to fit a large family quite comfortably. They had no glass, and the materials the builders had access to were just wood and stone.

But they were comfortable. And each was still new, the newest having gone up yesterday. It wasn’t hard, even. As Prost led Durene down the street, the girl stared at a line of men and two women hauling materials to the next plot of land. The foundation was already laid; now they were placing their equipment just so, bringing in the sturdy beams from which the house would be supported.

“It’s not hard to do. I know it’s a sight—imagine [Builders] from Riverfarm being able to put up a house in less than a day. Or two or even three houses in a day! Well, we do have a very large crew, but even at the beginning, it was easy. After the first house, we just had to copy what we did and do it right. It became so smooth that it’s almost boring. Emperor Laken was right—teaching everyone how to do a part of the house makes it dead easy.”

Prost pointed as a pair of workers rolled over two window frames in a handcart.

“Someone does the window frames, or prepares the roof tiles, and so on, and someone else brings them here. All the [Builders] on the site have to do is put things together one after another. We can go even faster, I think, but we haven’t made everything perfect.”

“It looks fast enough to me!”

Durene stared. Prost grinned excitedly. He cupped his hands as the two [Laborers] hauled off the window frames from the cart with a grunt and carefully placed them in the collection site.

“Hey! What’s taking you so long? We want to get four houses done today! Or are you all asleep on your feet?”

A few good-natured curses answered Prost. Some of the men and women looked up and spotted Durene. They waved, a few cautiously, and Durene smiled, recognizing one of the men from Riverfarm. A few gave Durene a very long look, but their comrades whispered to them, and they relaxed. Someone, a woman with a bandanna over her head, spat out a nail and pointed at a beam.

“We’re waiting on ropes to pull that load-bearing beam up. Some of ours are getting frayed, and I’m not going to see if it snaps.”

Prost grimaced.

“Fair enough. You have enough hands?”

The female [Builder] grinned as she hammered a floorboard into place.

“Why? You want to help, Mister Steward?”

He laughed and strode forwards. So did Durene. She eyed the beam and saw it was indeed a chunk of wood. But…

“I reckon we could do this without any ropes, Mister Prost. A few hands and I can push this up myself.”

She casually flexed one arm. She still felt groggy, but this looked simple. The [Builder] dropped her hammer as Durene approached. Perhaps they’d mistaken her for a man at a distance, but up close, Durene’s skin and height were unmistakable. One of the unfamiliar men backed up as he saw Durene.

“Dead gods—”

He reached for his belt. But the Riverfarm man pushed past him, beaming.

“Durene! You’re awake! I thought you’d be abed forever! How’re you? Come here, girl.”

He reached out. Durene smiled.

“Hullo, Mister Ram.”

Ram, or Ramel, laughed as she gave him a light hug. He grunted, and Durene realized she was squeezing—but she’d always liked him. He’d been decent to her even before Laken, even if he seldom came to Riverfarm. The [Rancher], who also had a few [Carpenter] and [Hunter] levels, smiled up at her and then turned to the others.

“Come on! This is Durene, our Emperor’s, uh—fiancée? She’s a [Farmer] and a [Paladin], whatever that is. We don’t need to wait on ropes, Miss Beycalt. Three or four hands plus Durene should do it.”

He waved at the reluctant others. Some of the folk who clearly remembered Durene stepped up. The female [Builder] in charge, Beycalt, raised an eyebrow.

“You’re sure?”

“Never surer. Come on, you three. We’ll do it.”

Prost answered for Ram, and the two men stepped over. Durene saw the reserve in the other faces, so she kept the smile on her face and squatted next to the end of the beam. She put both hands under the end as Prost and Ram and three others did likewise. Durene counted.

“One, two, three—lift!”

She lifted upwards slowly. The men grunted, and the beam came up. It was probably the worst way to lift something like this, honestly—the other end of the beam was level, which meant the lifters would have to struggle as the end they were lifting grew higher. If they weren’t strong enough—or even tall enough—to get it up, it might fall. But that equation didn’t account for Durene.

Up the load-bearing beam went. Durene lifted it over her head, bracing her legs, pushing up. It was heavy, but she was strong. She was a [Farmer] with the [Enhanced Strength] Skill, which already made her very strong. And she was bigger than any man here. She kept lifting and realized that Prost and Ram were struggling to reach over their heads.

“Hold on! We’ll get around the bottom—”

Ram shouted. Durene just laughed.

“I have it!”

So saying, she pushed, and the beam went vertical. A gasp went up from the other builders, and Beycalt blinked. Durene caught the beam before it could overbalance.

“Where do you want it?”

“Here!”

Another man pointed to a spot where the wooden beam was ready to be driven deep into the earth. There was even scaffolding set up to let a man hammer it deep with a maul. Durene wrapped her arms around the beam in a bear-hug and lifted it. She saw two men grunting and lifting as well—it didn’t feel much different to her. Huffing, Durene shuffled it over.

“Dragons take me! Is she carrying that by herself?”

“Stand clear! Durene, put it in the hole. Nice and gentle—”

Durene obeyed Ram’s words and edged the bottom of the beam into the waiting foundation. The [Builders] moved around it, steadying it, tamping earth and making sure it was steady. Then a man with a mallet climbed up and began to drive it deeper, solidifying it until even the most powerful of impacts wouldn’t so much as budge it loose. Prost and Ram wiped their brows as they stepped back. They looked admiringly at Durene.

“I forgot how strong you were, girl. Hell on Rhir, you didn’t even need us, did you?”

Ram slapped Durene’s back cheerfully. She grinned.

“It was nice support, Mister Ram.”

He laughed and slapped her back again. Durene smiled and found the [Builder] woman was staring at her. She dusted off her hands, a bit embarrassed. It was a familiar look in Beycalt’s eyes. One of amazement—and fear. Durene supposed it would have taken all the people here to move that beam without her. Especially since they’d have to crowd about and get in each other’s way to lift it.

The woman hesitated, but then she put down her hammer and stood up. She walked over to Durene, hopped off the foundation of the house, and held out a hand.

“Did I hear Mister Prost right? You’re Durene?”

“That’s me.”

Durene lightly squeezed the woman’s hand. It was gloveless, but the woman’s calluses were nearly as tough as Durene’s own skin. The [Builder] gave her a firm handshake.

“Pleased. I’m Beycalt Newman. Only, without a man, and [Forewoman] of this lot. And I do recognize you, come to think of it. You were with the army at Lancrel.”

Durene’s smile slipped away. Around her, Ram, Prost, and the other [Builders] went quiet. One of them took off his wicker hat. Durene nodded.

“I was. I’m sorry.”

Beycalt frowned.

“For what? I saw you smash at least thirty Goblins before we got away. You’ve got my thanks.”

She nodded to Durene. Speechless, the girl looked at Prost. He cleared his throat.

“We all owe you thanks, Durene. You and the brave lads…and lasses that fought there. Heycin, you were there, right?”

One of the men in the back nodded soberly.

“[Archers]. We got out fine. It’s good to see you, Durene.”

“You too.”

Durene waved at him. She vaguely recalled his face. But somehow, suddenly, she felt like she knew him as well as Ram. He nodded respectfully to her. The others looked from Durene to Heycin. Prost again broke the silence.

“Durene’s just been on her feet this morning. She’ll be getting her strength back. We probably shouldn’t have tested it—but she might come back this way if she’s needed. Then you lot won’t have any excuse to slack off, heh?”

That got a laugh. The [Builders] split up, getting back to work, and Ram waved at Prost and Durene before trotting back to lay the floorboards down with Beycalt. Durene stepped back, feeling…odd. Like someone still dreaming, really. She walked back with Prost and distinctly heard some of the men whispering and eying her.

“She’s the fiancée of this blind [Emperor]? Are you sure this place is…”

“Some kind of—”

People forgot her ears were every bit as good as theirs. Durene turned her head, blushing, and Prost noticed. He frowned back at the men, who went quiet under his gaze. Prost led Durene back down the street.

“Ignore them. They’re new. Most of the folk who came to Riverfarm were forced out of their homes by the Goblin raids. When they sacked the city—remember? Most of them fled to their families in nearby towns or villages, but some came back with us.”

“Riverfarm’s huge now. This is one street?”

“That’s right. One of our residential districts, according to Laken’s plans. We prioritized those—along with pastures, which were dead easy to fence off, and farmland. Our [Farmers] are sowing as fast as they can. Once we have the houses, we can worry about putting buildings further out and all the other non-essentials.”

Durene and Prost both nodded at that with a [Farmer]’s appreciation for crops first. All you needed was a bed and some land. The rest could come later. She looked around. The streets were full of people. Some waved and called out to her, but many stared at Durene as if she were a monster. Prost briskly shouted at them, waving them on, pausing to greet some people—introducing them to Durene.

“Miss Xathy, is that the harvest from the [Foragers]? Good haul! Place it with our other foodstuffs in the warehouse; don’t let people pick at it or you’ll have nothing left! It’s not snacks, folks, it’s dinner! Mister Calic, I told you, you’re an [Artist] when we need one! Right now, we need a [Painter], so slap a coat on those houses and don’t talk about decorations or I’ll have you working as a [Laborer]! This is Durene. Our best fighter save for maybe Beniar. She just woke up—you remember the announcements?”

A crowd of women holding baskets had paused in the street to stare at Durene. They were about fourteen in number, and a man with a bucket and paintbrush, who’d been arguing with a [Builder], turned and jumped as Prost shouted at him. He opened his mouth, saw Durene, choked on his spit, and backed up. The women stared up at Durene as they paused. Prost opened his mouth and then snapped at someone behind the [Painter] and women.

“Jelov! What are you doing?”

He bellowed at an old [Carpenter]. The old man uneasily started and tried to hide behind the small crowd. When he realized he wasn’t able to, he crabbed over. Durene stepped beside Prost; she knew the [Carpenter], and he had a tendency to lubricate the air when he spoke.

“Doing? Just getting rid of a few try-pieces, Mister Prost. Er, Steward Prost. I’m having a little break—”

“—Selling miniature totems as good-luck charms? I told you, we need to replace those totems the Goblins burned. It’s been fifty days, and you still have fifteen to go!”

Prost’s frown was thunderous. Jelov groaned. He held out his hands imploringly.

“I can’t work on the large pieces all the time, Mister Prost! My mind wanders, so it does. And the little ones are so well-loved—they take me only a few minutes each!”

“And they net you a tidy sum. I told you that no one’s earning money in Riverfarm. Not yet; we’re pooling it and buying what we need. Do I need to shake what you have stashed away out? Turn it over, man!”

Prost growled. Jelov whined, but he reluctantly held out a pouch filled with bronze and copper coins. Disgusted, Prost emptied it into his money pouch.

“Prost! You’re hurting me! It’s just a bit of coin—half the folk who came here have their own money stored away! You’re not asking for their coin. And I work twice, no, four times worth what I’d charge for eating or sleeping!”

“Yet. And I’m not charging them for food or rent. They work, they eat. We don’t have the resources to let them buy everything. Or are you going to pay for the house you live in alone? Or the wood we buy you? The tools Mister Helm forged for you ahead of everyone else?”

The [Carpenter]’s eyes slid sideways as Prost raised his voice.

“Well—I do suppose—I should get back to work. I have lots of work to do! I suppose an old man can’t take his time, can he? No. And when he goes out, he’s yelled at. I can’t wait for His Majesty to return. He was understanding of old folks’ needs…good to see you, Miss Durene!”

He edged backwards. Prost let him go. He turned to Durene with a sigh. She waved at Jelov, then looked around. Miss Xathy was still staring, basket of greens in hand. The woman was short, rotund, with an apron on her front. Durene smiled at her and then at the small gaggle of women, all of whom bore baskets filled with edibles taken from the wilderness.

“Pleased to meet you.”

“Ah—you too.”

Miss Xathy bowed very nervously to Durene, and another woman thrust her basket behind her arm and nodded.

“Durene? A pleasure to see you. And about time you put Jelov in his place, Mister Prost. He’s been here every morning when you’re not in sight, selling his little ‘trinkets’. He’s got ten times what he gave you stashed away.”

Prost grimaced.

“I’ve no doubt, Miss Hecla. I’ll see to it. But we have more work to do. There’s time enough to make Jelov cough up what he’s taken.”

The sharp-nosed woman nodded.

“Indeed. And with that, let’s get this sorted and see what we can make of it, ladies! Durene, again, a pleasure.”

She turned, summoning the crowd with her. Durene stared at her as the woman, tall, straight-backed, wearing a new-looking dress with no embroidery, marched off. Short Miss Xathy gave Durene another long look before scurrying off.

“Do I know that lady? Miss Hecla?”

Prost paused. He stared at the women’s backs and nodded after a moment.

“She knows you. When the Goblins were attacking, I think your group was the one that saved her and her husband when they were fleeing on the road. They lost everything save for the clothes on their backs. She’s a right sort.”

“I don’t remember that either.”

The [Steward] looked up at Durene and shook his head.

“No wonder you don’t. Hundreds of people know you and Emperor Laken for what you did. Still more came here just hearing about a safe haven. More still don’t know you or His Majesty. But that’ll change. He’s coming back. Until then—I’m keeping them all busy. Not one person doesn’t do work here. Building, foraging, making goods to sell, sewing clothes—everyone contributes. Even idiots like that [Painter], Calic.”

Prost sighed. He looked tired as he rubbed his neck. He turned to Durene with a smile.

“It’s good you’re back. I don’t know where you’ll fit in, but we can use you, Durene. I’d think it over, but I have to keep moving. Your cottage is right where you left it—we haven’t been able to get near it. Not with Bismarck and Frostwing guarding it.”

“Bismarck? And Frostwing? Laken didn’t take them with him?”

The man paused and shook his head.

“He didn’t. I think he thought you’d be here. They’re alive. Healthy—that bird’s a menace now. But I haven’t been able to see to them. Ah, dead gods, Durene. There’s so much to do.”

He sighed. And as Durene looked at him, she wondered how hard it had been. Part of her felt sorry for Mister Prost. Another part remembered the man who used to watch as the children threw rocks at her. And who told her to keep away from Laken.

Perhaps Prost remembered that too. He looked tiredly up at Durene.

“Things have changed, haven’t they, Durene? You know, I never apologized after the avalanche. I used to think of you as…well, I remember you digging up snow and pulling people out. Now look at you. You were fighting for us against those Goblins.”

He gestured at Durene, and his eyes went to the visible section of scar on her chest. She raised a hand to cover it instinctively. Durene paused. Her throat worked for a second.

“Thanks, Mister Prost. But I lost that battle. I let everyone down.”

He looked surprised.

“Says who? That [Healer]? She saved lives, but she’s no—”

“No. She didn’t say it. I just know.”

Durene hung her head. Prost reached out, hesitated, and then grabbed Durene’s arm with a firm grip.

“No one thinks that. We all know you fought—hells, girl. When they brought you in, I was ashamed I wasn’t fighting myself. I always thought of you as invincible. We should have made you armor. Given you something other than a club to fight with! We thought our army was invincible because we beat the Goblins all those times before. I guess that was a wake up for everyone. His Majesty included.”

Durene nodded slowly. She felt a lump in her throat. And Laken was…

“What was that about, Mister Prost? Back there? Is he really bringing Goblins to Riverfarm? Why not kill them all?”

She clenched one fist. Prost hesitated and shook his head.

“I don’t know. But if Emperor Laken has his reasons, he has his reasons. And we’ll find out what they are when he arrives.”

“And you’re fine with that? After what they did? Why won’t Laken just get rid of them? You said he tried to make peace with that Goblin Chieftain! Why did he—are you really alright with this?”

Durene couldn’t understand. She waited and saw the older man hesitate. His jaw clench. But his voice remained level.

“I don’t know. And no, Durene. I’m not fond of the idea of Goblin prisoners. But if Emperor Laken says so, he says so.”

“Really? You’re not going to have words with him?”

Durene was, right when Laken got back. She was…angry at him. He should have been here! She had stepped forwards months in time, and she’d thought—she understood he had gone south, but if he could have been back? If he’d delayed to keep a bunch of Goblin prisoners? Again, Prost hesitated. But this time, he met Durene’s eyes.

“No. I’ll hear him out. That’s all.”

“Really?”

The [Steward] nodded once.

“He found my daughter in snow ten feet deep. Ten more seconds, another minute—and I’d never have heard her voice again. If His Majesty says jump, I’ll ask why because I’m his [Steward]. And then I’ll do it. If he wants Goblins prisoners? He has them. That’s all there is to it.”

He turned his head. And it was that simple. For him. Durene clenched her fists. She didn’t think it was so simple. But Laken wasn’t here. And she…

“What do I do now, Mister Prost?”

He looked back at her.

“I don’t know. If you need rest—”

“I don’t.”

“Then I could use you in dozens of places. Farming, cutting wood, hauling, building—anywhere you want to be. But maybe you should visit your cottage, Durene. Check on Laken’s animals. You don’t have to do everything today. You just woke up. And if you really need help, Lady Rie or I will be about.”

“Rie. She’s helping too? You trust her?”

Durene muttered resentfully. She knew it was petty, especially after the way Rie had greeted her with such relief. Again, Prost shrugged.

“I don’t know if she’s here for more reasons than wanting to become part of whatever this is. It’s hard to imagine a [Lady] living as she does. But she does. And I’ll say this, Durene. Lady Rie’s one of the reasons why Riverfarm’s still working. She’s been buying supplies, using her connections—and managing the half of the village I can’t. I’m grateful for her.”

He met Durene’s eyes, and she had to look away, embarrassed and ashamed of herself. At last, Prost checked the sky.

“I have to go. I need to organize more people to the farms. To feed two thousand…we have to plant and harvest as fast as we can. Durene, I’ll leave you. But maybe there is somewhere you need to go first.”

“Where?”

“The cemetery.”

Durene froze. Prost looked west.

“I say that. But it’s more like a memorial spot. Not many graves. Still, there’s markers…it’s that way. By the old village. Seemed like a good spot to place it.”

He pointed. Then he looked at Durene and walked off. And the half-Troll girl followed his gaze and began to walk. All the strangeness of waking, the bitterness and confusion of Laken being missing and doing strange things with Goblin prisoners—all of it became background.

She was there again. Walking side-by-side with men and women from Riverfarm and every village, city, and town in the region. A woman with a pointed hat aimed her wand at a ruined city. Durene saw the ranks of Humans moving faster. Then running. She heard a roar and echoed it. And from the city they came, thousands of green bodies, shrieking in their high-pitched war cries, fighting in the mud and gore. And Durene charged, swinging her club—and the dead fell. Goblins and people.

There they were. Buried in rows, in a place where a village had stood. Side-by-side. Neatly in death. Not how they had fallen. Durene halted as she left the neat, organized dirt roads of the village. Someone had cleared the spring growth from the ground in the immediate area, but sprouts still bloomed, poking through the soil.

Rows and rows of them. The grave makers had been planted. But Prost was right. Few had been dug. The markers were what mattered. And they were neatly tended to, the flowers still fresh. The grief hung in the air, and the cemetery itself was quiet. Durene walked forwards silently.

This was Riverfarm. The original Riverfarm. She remembered it. This used to be the southern end of the village. But it had been buried in snow after the avalanche. Only near the end had they recovered the deepest bodies. No one had wanted to rebuild here.

And now—the graves were quiet. Durene supposed they were visited, but Prost probably did keep everyone moving. So if the cemetery had visitors, it was later. She looked from gravestone to gravestone, reading the markings written in ash on wood, or in the cases of stone, carved there.

Names. Sometimes with a [Class] and levels attached. Other times just left so. Sometimes with a few words, written in memory of the deceased. Or that the person had said in life. Rows and rows. So few that Durene recognized. Too many that she did.



Nielfra Grassc. [Huntress]. Died fighting Goblins.

Thel Grassc. [Hunter]. Died fighting Goblins.

Inmki. Aged 41.

Sadil Prowli, beloved child.

Grimby, the Woodsman of Windrest.

Ellric Edsmund, died in the Battle for Lancrel.

Rachella—

Fin—

Vellima—

Haskel—

Aberal—

Tchronson—



Name after name. Each grave tended to. Some by family and marked with care. Others placed there with respect, if not love. Durene walked past marker after marker. And, horribly, she felt nothing for so many.

She had not seen them buried. She didn’t remember them. They weren’t of Riverfarm. And Durene hadn’t known them except for a passing face, a jest, a flash in the battle. But—she bit her lip until it nearly bled. They had answered Laken’s call. They had come to fight Goblins.

Then she saw a name she did recognize. Lamily, Daughter of Riverfarm. Died fighting Goblins. Durene paused. Lamily? She remembered a woman, always grumpy, nowhere near as pleasant as her name indicated. A widow, a [Farmer]. Skilled enough with a pitchfork to kill a Corusdeer that went on a rampage eight winters back.

Dead. Durene hadn’t even known she’d died in the battle. She bent, trying to imagine the woman’s lined, angry face. She’d been at the battle? Or had it been earlier? In the first battle for Riverfarm against the Goblin raiders?

Durene couldn’t remember. The deaths felt so long ago. And she felt—lost.

She was a stranger to Riverfarm. Some of the faces felt familiar. Prost did. Rie did. Ram—and yet, the village was bustling. It wasn’t even a village anymore, was it? Durene hadn’t seen more than a fraction of it. And yet, it had streets and hundreds of familiar faces.

Her home was gone. And it had gone in the days where she’d slept in fever and madness. And Laken was missing.

Durene slowly bent in front of Lamily’s grave. She felt so tired. And adrift. It felt like nothing was real. She wanted to lie down and sleep again, and if she slept long enough, perhaps, perhaps Laken would be back. Time would flow backwards, and she wouldn’t feel so lost. Durene bent to sit on the thin layer of grass. Then she saw something fluttering down out of the sky.

The half-Troll girl looked up. A bird flew out of the sky. Not a robin, though, or a forest bird she was used to. It was a crow. No—a raven. It flew down, cawing. And Durene saw it land on something in the graveyard.

A bit of blue poking up above one of the headstones. Durene frowned. The strange blue thing didn’t match the rest of the solemn place. The graves were stone or wood, grey and brown and sometimes even white stone, but never blue. And the brown earth, the green shoots of grass and occasional flowers—

Blue? Durene took a step towards it. Then she saw the patch of blue move. It rose and became a pointed cone. A hat. And the raven, pecking at it, flew up and alighted on a gravestone. Durene saw someone stand up from where she’d been kneeling. And she saw a pale face. Spectacles. She recognized the person who turned to look at the raven.

It was a [Witch]. Wiskeria. Seeing her, Durene felt a shock. Because Wiskeria, at least, hadn’t changed.

She was the same as Durene remembered seeing before the battle. The same, from her clothing to the spectacles on her face, an oddity in Riverfarm. The same, but her face was shadowed. Her expression clouded and upset. Her eyes red-rimmed. So she wasn’t the person Durene remembered. Nor was her voice as she shouted at the raven.

“Begone! I told you twice, no! Tell her no! Tell them all I said no!”

The raven cawed and flew up as Wiskeria pointed a trembling finger at it. It flew around her head, making loud, shrill sounds. It alighted on another headstone. And then, to Durene’s shock and horror, it spoke.

“Wiskeria. Come. Come!”

The voice sounded like a raven’s caw, but the words were undeniable. Durene froze, her eyes wide in horror. What kind of animal was this? Some kind of [Beast Tamer]’s special pet? Like Laken’s? But Wiskeria just shook her fist at it.

“No. And no again! I said no! I won’t go. I have duties here. I can’t leave! I don’t care what the others say. Tell them no!”

“Come!”

The raven was insistent. Wiskeria glowered. She grabbed a piece of soil from the ground. She hurled it, and a shower of dirt sent the raven flying.

“No! Begone and tell her no!”

This time, the bird took flight. Wiskeria glared as it flew off. Durene followed it with her eyes and then saw the [Witch] walking towards where the raven had been. Durene walked closer and saw Wiskeria was bending over, brushing at some dirt that had gotten on top of a grave. She was so engrossed she didn’t notice Durene at first. Then she looked up. Durene was hard to miss.

“Durene?”

Wiskeria’s pale face went paler. Durene looked down at her. The [Witch] was thin. Thinner than Durene remembered her. But still the same.

“Wiskeria. It’s me.”

Durene felt silly saying it out loud. But Wiskeria seemed as shocked to see Durene as the half-Troll girl was to see her. The [Witch] opened her mouth and hesitated. She looked at Durene’s tunic, and her eyes widened as she saw the scar on her chest.

“Your injury—”

Durene reflexively covered the wound. Then she stopped. Wiskeria had been the one to save her, according to Pirose.

“Yeah. I was asleep. Sick, apparently. I’ve been…asleep.”

“I know. I kept coming to see you. Do you remember?”

“No.”

“Oh. Well…it’s good to see you.”

Wiskeria tugged on the brim of her hat. She looked around almost unsteadily. Then back up at Durene.

“I’m so glad.”

She reached out and caught herself, withdrew the hand. Durene blinked. Wiskeria wasn’t like this. She remembered a confident, no-nonsense person. Not whoever this was.

“I’m glad to see you too. What was…that?”

She pointed vaguely in the direction of the raven. Wiskeria turned her head.

“That? Oh—a message. From a…friend.”

“Really?”

Durene had no idea you could train ravens to send messages. But then, Wiskeria was a [Witch]. Wasn’t that what they did? Durene knew of [Witches] as scary, mysterious people. Riverfarm had never had one around, but you heard rumors. But Wiskeria had been so normal when she’d shown up as part of the Celestial Trackers that Durene had hardly given it a second thought, what with everything else happening. Now?

“I’m glad.”

Wiskeria repeated herself. She wavered. And then she looked around.

“Sorry. It’s such a surprise. I’ve been…did you just wake up? Are you here to pay your respects?”

“I guess. I mean, I am.”

Embarrassed, Durene realized that must have been why Wiskeria was here. And the [Witch] seemed so solemn, so pained, so sad that Durene felt callous by comparison. Wiskeria nodded a few times.

“I’ve been here. Most days. Thinking about my—what happened. I try to do it now, when no one’s about. They come after sunset. The families, you know.”

“Are all these people who died in the battle?”

Durene gestured around the graveyard. Wiskeria shook her head.

“They’re also your folk who died before that. But most of them come from the battle. This isn’t all of them either. The rest were buried in their homes. If they still remained. I…I saw to that.”

She bit her lip and looked down. Durene stared at her. She looked around the cemetery again.

“What have you been doing? Besides this?”

“Besides…?”

Wiskeria looked blank. She stared around and shook her head.

“Laken’s gone. I haven’t gotten any orders from him. Well—Rie and Prost keep in contact. But he’s coming back. With Goblins. You heard about that?”

Durene gritted her teeth.

“I did. What do you think about it?”

The [Witch] shrugged her shoulders listlessly. She shook her head.

“I hope he comes back. Riverfarm’s growing. And it’s difficult now. There’s so many new people. Did you see…?”

“No. I just went down one street. Then Prost pointed me here. I had to get away from it all.”

Another nod.

“You’ll see it tomorrow. Or the next few days. It’s amazing. But Prost and Rie have everyone doing jobs. Farming—there’s nearly a hundred people working the fields. They’re huge. So big that we need people with bows shooting down birds and animals trying to get at the seeds. And [Woodcutters], people quarrying stone—it’s incredible. But problematic. There’s crime now. [Bandits] have started raiding the area with Laken gone. As well as [Thieves] in the village. Town.”

Durene’s eyes widened. Bandits? Laken had helped crush a few groups early on, but the Goblins had scared most of them away. She looked at Wiskeria.

“That’s awful. Are you having trouble finding them?”

“Me?”

The [Witch] looked blank for a moment. Durene nodded and frowned.

“You’re our [General]. What’s the army doing? Are we putting out traps or hunting for them or what?”

Wiskeria was just shaking her head.

“No. No. I’m not—I quit, Durene. I stepped down. I’m not in charge of anything anymore.”

“What? Why?”

Thunderstruck, Durene’s jaw fell open. The [Witch]’s face was covered by the brim of her hat. She looked at the graves, at the sky, and then shook her head again.

“I shouldn’t be leading. I was the one who got everyone killed during the battle. All these graves? They’re because of me. I feel terribly bad about it.”

Terribly bad. That was underselling…Durene felt a flash of anger, then wondered how she’d even say it. She saw Wiskeria lift her head—and then realized the [Witch] was crying.

Tears ran from Wiskeria’s eyes when Durene could barely weep. They trickled down her face, and Durene panicked.

“Wiskeria! Don’t cry. It wasn’t your fault. It was a bad order; Rie told me all about it. Laken didn’t want you to attack.”

That had been a shock too. Someone had betrayed Laken. Knocked out Nesor to send a [Message] telling Wiskeria to attack the Goblins. The [Witch] nodded, tears falling from her face. But her voice was oddly steady.

“I know. But I obeyed it. I made the wrong choice in the moment, and but for House Veltras, we would have been wiped out. Lord Tyrion saved us. This was a disgrace. All the dead—my fault.”

She gestured around at the graves. Durene swallowed.

“That wasn’t your fault, Wiskeria.”

The [Witch] paused. Tears kept falling, but her voice was still steady.

“That’s kind of you to say. Few people agree with you. It doesn’t matter either way; the army’s disbanded. The remainder is sticking close to Riverfarm. We have a mounted group—the adventurers and [Soldiers] patrol around Riverfarm. But there’s no need for an army.”

Durene snapped.

“There’s every need. Laken’s bringing back Goblins. Hundreds of them!”

Why was no one talking about that? Wiskeria just shook her head.

“He has his reasons. Whatever they are. When he comes back, he can appoint a new [General]. I’m just staying to make amends. There’s not one [Alchemist] among all the people of Riverfarm; they all were lured to other cities. There’s an [Herbalist], but she’s Level 9. I’m helping until Prost can find or train someone up. By the way, have I been crying too long?”

“What?”

Wiskeria touched at her eyes.

“I weep for the dead. I have been, since the battle. I did not when I was still acting as a [General] because you shouldn’t in a position of command. I can and do as a [Witch]. Too much? I suppose it is.”

And like that, the tears stopped. As if they were something you could just…begin and end when you pleased. Durene recoiled a bit as Wiskeria produced a handkerchief and wiped her face.

“How did you do that?”

“What, cry? I let out my grief. Well, tried. I don’t know how to mourn; I have never lost anyone under my command before. I failed as a [General], Durene. I was arrogant. I thought I could fill the role, and look what it cost. I’m…ashamed.”

She pulled down the brim of her hat and seemed to deflate a bit before Durene’s eyes. The half-Troll girl didn’t know what to say. Wiskeria seemed genuinely sad, but she was also—

Everyone surely expressed being sad differently. The [Witch] stared at Durene’s scar and then looked around.

“I’m going to clean up. Then gather some herbs. It’s good to see you, Durene.”

“You too?”

The [Witch] nodded, ignoring the question. She walked off. Durene let her go. She stared around the cemetery. And the sense of wrongness intensified. Durene hurried away, stepping carefully between the graves. Everything was so wrong. The village. Wiskeria. All of it. She didn’t head back to Riverfarm. Instead, she climbed, up, towards the forest. And her home. Her and Laken’s. On the way, she looked back once.

Riverfarm had been a group of farms by a river. Small enough to miss in the shadow of the mountain, and it was a small mountain compared to any of the High Passes. It had been a collection of spread out houses connected by a small street.

Now it was a town. Neat rows of carefully laid houses stretched down a main street, and the residential district was already nearly four hundred houses large. Massive warehouses had been formed in another district to hold food. Fires and lights burned in the town, and hundreds, thousands of shapes milled about, forming queues for supper.

Across the river, Durene saw farmland. Not the patches a single [Farmer] or family could tend to, but a vast swathe of converted farmland, enough to feed tens of thousands if it all came to seed. The landscape had changed. A forest had vanished to make way for the houses. The uneven meadows across the river were all tilled soil. Durene stared. And then she turned away and went home. It had to be the same. Let one thing be the same. One—

The cottage was as she’d left it. Durene nearly cried with relief at the sight of the humble hut. The thatched roof was still there, unlike the rooftop tiles used in Riverfarm’s houses. Her garden was there, messy, overgrown—it looked like animals had torn it apart. But the fencing was still there, broken in only one spot by something heavy. And her door, her shuttered windows—they were all there.

“Home.”

Durene’s eyes filled with tears as she stumbled towards her cottage. She just wanted to sleep there. She could think about Laken being gone tomorrow. She could face everything. But now—she reached for the handle. Then she heard a shriek. Something hurtled at her from the evening sky. Durene instinctively held a hand up. She felt something rake across her arm, stinging her skin.

Something screamed in her ears, then flapped up. Durene swung an arm, and the thing retreated. It darted forwards to peck again and then—abruptly—halted in midair. Durene stared. She saw a flash of vibrant blue feathers. Two staring, yellow eyes. And a shape she half-recognized. The half-Troll girl lowered her arm.

“Frostwing?”

The bird screamed. It was a familiar sound, the obnoxious complaint the bird always used to utter when it demanded food. But it was louder. And Frostwing was fully grown. A huge bird, nearly as large as an eagle, spread her wings and glared at Durene. There was a fierce, predatory look in her eyes. As Durene hesitantly reached out, Frostwing pecked.

“Ow! Frostwing, it’s me!”

The bird halted, baring its talons as it perched on Durene’s cottage. She seemed to know Durene, but she was hesitant. Durene was as much a stranger to Frostwing as the bird was to her. Slowly, Durene held out a hand.

“Frostwing? It’s me. Durene. I live with Laken. You remember him?”

The bird reacted to Laken’s name. It half-pecked at a finger, then slowly hopped forwards. Durene felt the bird latch onto her arm and winced, but only a bit. Frostwing’s talons were sharp. Slowly, carefully, Durene brought her close and raised a hand. Frostwing flinched, but Durene’s fingers were gentle as she stroked the bird’s head. It stared at her, trembling. And Durene felt her heart hurt.

“Have you been here while I’ve been asleep? Did no one look after you? How could Prost? How could they?”

The bird didn’t reply. Durene looked around. The cottage was tended. But why hadn’t anyone taken care of her garden? She’d planted during the winter. They could have looked after it. And there was a hole in her roof! Why hadn’t—

Then she heard the shuffling. Something grunted. Durene whirled, and Frostwing took off, screaming in alarm. Something was lurking around the side of her cottage. Durene hesitated. Her heart pounded in alarm—then she caught herself and made a fist. She strode forwards, ready to swing—

And paused. A large, green-furred bear blinked up at her. He was a giant, larger than any regular black bear and even brown bears. His fur was thick, the moss-green color that gave his species its name. The fur was dirty, and Durene could swear there was even a mushroom growing among the hairs.

But the bear seemed placid and content. He clearly recognized her because he came snuffling up to her, padding forwards with a tread heavier than even Durene’s. He leaned against her and sighed. Durene looked down.

“Bismarck?”



Day 52 – Durene



It was raining when Durene woke up. That didn’t bother her. The steady funnel of water pouring through the hole in her roof, on the other hand, definitely did. At first, Durene’s sleepiness conflated the water with her own bladder, and she got up to pee. And then she saw water soaking her floorboards and shouted in disgust.

A bird screamed. Frostwing took off, flying about the cottage in alarm as Durene, muddled, rushed about for a bucket to contain the water. But after she saw her warped floorboards, she realized it was no use. The hole had been here for weeks, and her floor was ruined.

“Damn, damn—Frostwing, shut up!”

Durene shouted at the bird. Mercifully, Frostwing shut up. She stared as Durene, swearing, found a dusty hammer in her toolbox. She didn’t bother looking for her scrap wood—she just yanked up a floorboard and stomped outside. Durene had a ladder she kept for repairs of her roof; that at least was in the right place. The problem was that someone was in the way.

Bismarck, the bear, was snoozing in a den around the cottage’s back. He’d apparently fallen in love with her woodshed. And her root cellar. The bear had torn the door off her cellar and combined it with the woodshed to accommodate his bulk. Durene was too annoyed to be impressed with the Mossbear’s intelligence. She prodded at him.

“Gawl.”

Bismarck’s annoyed growl was deep and rumbling. It was the kind of sound that would have scared the urine out of anyone who heard it and saw his huge eyes open and his mouth reveal a row of teeth. Bismarck growled in annoyance and then looked up into Durene’s wet face and her glare.

“Move.”

He blinked, got up, and shuffled out of the way. Durene scowled at the broken back of her ladder. But half of it was working, so she propped it up, climbed up four rungs, and started pounding nails into her roof.

“Lousy—stupid—Frostwing, be quiet!”

The bird was protesting its captivity. Durene hammered the last nail into place, decided that was enough, and stomped inside. A glaring bird assailed her with more shrieks. Durene nearly shrieked back.

“I’ll get you some food! Be quiet!”

And Frostwing was. The bird watched as Durene cast about the cottage only to realize that she did not, in fact, have any food. Anything she’d owned was long-since rotted. But Durene was saved from being screamed at by the sight of a basket filled with…food?

She peered inside. Dried meat, half-eaten, moldy potatoes, and fish bones peeked out at her. Durene recoiled from the smell, but Frostwing alighted on the basket and tore at it. Durene stared at it and then at the shutters that had clearly been opened to let it go through.

“So that’s how they fed you. Left it and ran? And what are the potatoes for? Bismarck?”

On cue, the Mossbear pushed open Durene’s cottage with his head. He trotted over to the basket and stuck his nose in. Frostwing, affronted, fluttered up and screamed at him. Bismarck made a galumphing sound and nosed in the basket for the potatoes. Frostwing landed on the other edge of the basket and began pecking at the meat after a moment.

Durene just stared. Then she caught hold of herself and snatched the basket. Bismarck and Frostwing both recoiled. The two animals turned to Durene. Bismarck made a confused growling noise. Frostwing shrieked—and received a tap on the beak.

“Stop. That.”

Durene frowned at the bird. Frostwing screamed, and Durene waved a bit of dried meat in her face. Abruptly, Frostwing went still. Her head darted for the meat—and Durene let her take it.

“Be quiet. Understand? Quiet. And I’ll feed you.”

The bird considered the deal. She hopped back onto the table, and Durene saw a large nest had been made out of a pillow and branches. It was covered in bird poop, bones, and scraps. Durene wrinkled her nose, but Frostwing sat in it. She opened her beak and screamed, but softly. And she made a begging motion, as if she were a chick.

“Okay.”

Durene handed her another bit of meat. Frostwing took it and swallowed, then begged again. The sight hurt Durene to see. Frostwing was nearly feral; apparently, the only way people had been able to feed her while Durene was asleep and Laken was gone was to leave meat out in the open and let her eat it. She wasn’t unhealthy—but she should have been with Laken. He must have thought she was with Durene until he found out she was sick.

“It shouldn’t have happened like this. None of it.”

Durene whispered. She felt her eyes stinging as water dripped down from the poorly patched hole. Then she felt a wet nose and jumped. Bismarck tried for the basket. Durene pushed his head back.

“No. Go back. Sit! Sit!”

She ordered him as if he were a dog. Laken had never really trained Bismarck, but the bear hadn’t needed it. Bismarck considered the instructions, then, to Durene’s great surprise, went over and sat. Stunned, the half-Troll girl stared at him and then took out a moldy potato. The bear devoured it and opened his mouth for more. On the table, Frostwing shrieked, demanding attention.

Caring for the two animals took nearly two hours. Not just to feed them; to make them comfortable around her. Durene alternated between stroking Frostwing’s head and combing Bismarck’s dirty fur with her comb. The bear and even the bird soon began to nuzzle her, leaning against her, as their wariness faded and memory of her returned.

It wasn’t so bad with Bismarck; he clearly regarded Durene as a friendly face. But Frostwing hurt. When the bird finally seemed to remember Durene, she leaned against the girl and shivered into her side. Durene closed her eyes. Why hadn’t Frostwing gone after Laken? She could clearly fly. But then—this was her home.

“You shouldn’t have stayed here. Prost should have gotten you. But maybe you were too scary for him. I’m sorry, Frostwing. I’m so sorry. I was asleep.”

The bird’s only response was to peck Durene on the cheek, but softly. Durene didn’t know if the bird understood her. But from the way Frostwing looked around and then at Durene, she realized she was looking for Laken now.

“He’s gone. I’m sorry. I don’t know when he’s coming back.”

The bird just stared at Durene. The girl couldn’t give any other answer than to stroke Frostwing’s head. In her ruined cottage, the girl sat. And she felt worse than she had yesterday.

For two hours. And then Durene had to get up. She looked outside as Frostwing perched on her arm and Bismarck trotted outside. It was still raining. Durene was used to the spring rains, and the downpour outside wasn’t too bad. In fact, one of Durene’s few [Farmer] Skills—[Weathersense]—told her that it wouldn’t be much longer before the downpour stopped.

It must have started in the night. And try as Durene might to hate the weather, she knew it was essential for the crops. Riverfarm needed water for the harvests. This was usual. It was just that Durene hadn’t been able to prepare herself. She looked at Frostwing, and her stomach rumbled. That startled the bird; Frostwing fanned her wings and nearly took off.

“I’m hungry. There’s no food for me.”

Durene looked at the empty basket. The two animals had handily devoured the scraps. Not that Durene would have eaten from it anyways. She looked out the window.

“I’ve gotta go to Riverfarm, I guess.”

Durene opened the door. Sure enough, the rain was becoming a sprinkle. She would have gone outside, but Frostwing panicked. The bird pulled at Durene’s tunic, trying to pull her inside the cottage.

“Frostwing! Ow! Stop! I’m not going to leave you!”

The girl protested, but the bird refused to calm down. Exasperated, heartbroken, Durene looked around. Laken had asked for a hawker’s glove to let Frostwing land on his arm. He’d made one for her, but she hadn’t used it. She found it under a bed and put it on. Durene held out her arm like she’d seen Laken do.

“You can come with me! But only if you behave. Understand? Behave.”

The bird quieted down. Slowly, she hopped onto Durene’s arm and braced. Durene stared at her. The bird stared back. Slowly, Durene looked about. Bismarck paused as he backed into his den around the cottage back.

“You’ll scare everyone. You stay here, okay?”

“Gaeghr.”

The Mossbear made a sleepy sound. Durene eyed him. She decided it was fine. Bismarck rolled over in his little outdoor den, and Durene wondered if this was what owning a dog was like. Probably not; all the dogs in Riverfarm used to hate her. They’d bark non-stop when she came near and even tried to bite her—until she’d thrown one that bit her arm into a tree. Then they just barked and ran away. Until the avalanche.

Slowly, balancing Frostwing on one arm until she got tired and the bird decided her shoulder was more fun, Durene descended into the village. It was even larger than last night. But Durene could see her old road slowly entering Riverfarm from the side, so she walked down into the village’s streets.

And she got lost. It seemed impossible, but even the few streets of Riverfarm were enough to throw Durene off. She stared at the flood of people walking about, some forming lines for food. There were multiple cooking stations, based out of buildings and awnings, serving food to people who grumbled and tried to stay out of the last of the rain. They stared back at Durene. Hundreds of faces as she trotted down the street. Frostwing uneasily fanned her wings, and the murmurs increased.

“Five Families. Is that…?”

“Half-Troll? I thought she was on death’s bed!”

“—Durene—I told you. She’s Emperor Laken’s—”

“A giant! Killed a dozen Hobs herself. I saw it all—”

“Monster. Should have gone to Muerfurt. Or Kingscell. Anywhere but this.”

That last voice made Durene look around sharply. But she didn’t see who it was. A girl ran up to Durene in the street.

“Durene? Durene!”

The half-Troll girl stared. She recognized this face. The long, red pigtails. The overalls. Prost’s daughter had inherited her hair from her mother, Miss Yesel, but she had something of his build, stocky for a girl. She was only…nine? No, ten. She waved at Durene and came to a halt, eying Frostwing. The bird glared back, and Durene raised a hand to sooth her.

“Chimmy?”

The girl nodded. She stared up at Durene.

“You’re alive! Da said you were, but you went home. He’s in His Majesty’s throne room. Do you want to meet him?”

“I—I need breakfast. And I should see him. I just…this is Frostwing. Frostwing, you remember Chimmy. Right?”

The bird glared down at the girl, clearly not sure if she did. Chimmy stared back and warily held out a hand. The blue bird pecked, and Durene blocked it—Chimmy withdrew her hand sharply. She regarded Durene.

“I can get you food. You want bread? Stew? We’ve got meat too.”

Durene’s stomach rumbled, and Frostwing nearly took off.

“That would be great. And, uh, maybe a bit of meat?”

She wasn’t sure if it was for Frostwing or for her. Chimmy nodded and dashed towards one of the cookhouses. She slipped through the lines, and Durene saw a [Cook] serving food frown and look up. She glanced out a window, did a double-take as she saw Durene petting Frostwing, and grabbed some food.

The folk waiting in line protested when they saw Chimmy coming out with a double-helping—again, until they saw Durene. Then they just stared as she wolfed down her breakfast in the street, and Chimmy offered a bit of meat, which Frostwing deigned to eat after three sniffs. Fortified, Durene nodded to Chimmy, and the girl showed her where to put the empty bowl and plate.

“Just there. We’ve got [Washers] and such who do all the dishes. I’m supposed to help them today, but helping you is more important.”

The girl informed Durene with the air of a child who had her alibi all sorted when she was inevitably asked. She led Durene down the street, chattering as the older girl followed her, mystified.

“All sorts of things happened when you were asleep, Durene. Riverfarm’s big now! There’s hundreds and hundreds of people. And they all listen to my dad. And Lady Rie. She makes them work, and anyone who argues has to stand in the pillory! We have a pillory now. Da says we shouldn’t ought to need them, but until Emperor Laken gets back, we need them. But most people work. There’s everything to do, and we need so much of everything. Wood, stone, nails—Mister Helm is making lots of metal, but he says we need to have our own mines. We have to buy our ore, which Lady Rie says is costly. And Da’s worried about how much coin we have, even though we all pool our wealth. He says we need to grow something worth coin, but he doesn’t know what. He’s gonna ask Emperor Laken with a [Message] spell. Do you know where he is, Durene?”

The girl looked up expectantly. Durene, caught off-guard by the stoppage of the flow of words, shook her head.

“South. With Goblins.”

“Why? I asked Da, but he won’t say.”

“I don’t know.”

“Alright then.”

Chimmy shrugged and skipped ahead. Durene followed her. The girl was so casual about Riverfarm as it was now. Durene envied her. But—Chimmy had survived the avalanche and even begun to smile within a week of the snows that had claimed her youngest brother. She was tough. She had to be, living out here.

So did Durene. She straightened her back, trying to process all of what Chimmy was saying.

“We’ve got smokehouses and a place for Mister Helm’s forge, only we’re going to change them because Mister Prost says in the ‘blue-prints’ that he and Emperor Laken came up with—they didn’t account for the winds. So we need to put them downwind or people complain. It’s all good, though. Everyone gets enough to eat, and we don’t need to buy food because some of the [Farmers] have [Fast Growth] Skills. One even has [One Day Bloom]!”

“Really?”

Durene’s eyes widened. That was good! Chimmy nodded proudly.

“It’s great, but he’s only one [Farmer]. So Da came up with a great plan. He has Mister Tepple sow all the seeds and the other [Farmers] till the earth and so on or water. That way, them with [Fast Growth] make the seeds come up, and the ones without growing Skills do other things. See? Da reckons we can be as good as any big farm if we work together! As good as any noble’s lands with lots of farmers on Terandria, Lady Rie says. And all because we’re all here serving under Emperor Laken!”

“That’s great.”

Durene muttered. Her head was still spinning as she stared around the streets and saw more people lined up. And more and more were getting to work! Four dozen men, all with axes, were proceeding down one street. A fellow on a wagon was loaded up and driving it down the street. Women were hauling dirty, muddy clothes in washbasins towards the river—and each basket was piled to the top! Across the street, Durene saw two old men carving a table with…squares and tiny little pieces out of wood. And the fellow with the wagon had more than one of those tables lashed to it. He was loading them up, talking to them.

“—Good sales on these things. I’ll bring back a board of Go so you can copy that too. It’s worth gold if they’re varnished and made all fancy, so long as people don’t realize I’ve got twelve more in the back.”

“Mind getting us more designs? Only so many ways we can make these pretty. We could do more if we had a few good [Artists] instead of that idiot who Prost has painting walls.”

One of the old men groused as Durene and Chimmy slowed down to watch. The [Trader] laughed as he adjusted his belt. A man with a hooded face bumped his shoulder, and the [Trader] frowned at him for a moment. The street was getting crowded, and the fellow pushed past the [Woodcutters], who cursed at him good-naturedly.

“I’ll see what I can do. It’s not on the list of things Lady Rie asked me to buy, but she’ll see the sense in it. And with the gold I can bring in with these things—those good-luck charms that Jelov makes aren’t bad either. People like the idea of them. Although they ask if they’re actually the product of a Skill, and I can’t answer that.”

“Say they’re blessed by His Majesty. That’s good enough for me. I have one right above my bed when I sleep.”

One of the old men smiled. The other nodded. The [Trader] grinned, and so did Durene. She thought she knew him. Either way, he was smiling as he adjusted his belt. He went back to the wagon to load the last chess set up with the [Wagon Driver], and then his eyes widened. His hand flew to his belt.

“My money! Someone stole my money bag!”

Every head turned as Frostwing, alarmed by the scream, took to the air, shrieking herself. Durene’s whipped around. She searched the crowd for the hooded figure who had bumped into the [Trader]. She spotted him, hurrying away.

“There!”

The [Trader] had seen him too. He pointed, and half the [Woodcutters] turned and began to give chase. The hooded man broke into a run. And he was quick—but Durene was already running after him.

“Hey, you, stop!”

Durene bellowed. The man ducked as her voice boomed at him. He turned his head, saw her, and his eyes went round. He turned and sprinted. Durene charged after him, but people were in the way, and even leaping aside, she was afraid she’d hit them. The man ducked left, trying to lose his pursuers around a house. Durene rounded it—and saw another street. People stared as she and the [Woodcutters] dashed out into the open.

“There was a man! He stole Trader Gellid’s gold! Where’d he go?”

One of the [Woodcutters] shouted. The people in the street looked around. Durene’s head swiveled, but the hooded man was gone.

“I thought I saw—but he’s nowhere.”

A woman looked around, wide-eyed. Durene cursed. Had the man vanished? Used a Skill? She turned desperately and saw Chimmy running after her with the breathless [Trader]. They stared around, horrified, at the crowd devoid of hooded figures. Durene clenched her fists helplessly—

And then a shriek tore the air. Everyone ducked as Frostwing, enraged, hurtled out of the air like a blue bolt of lightning. She landed, tearing, pecking, at the very same woman who’d seen the [Thief]!

“Frostwing! Stop!”

Durene shouted and began to run forwards. But before she could reach the bird, the woman ducked away, cursing. And her face, her entire body—blurred. The hooded figure ran backwards, shielding his head, cursing at Frostwing.

“That’s the [Thief]! Get him!”

The [Trader] howled. Now, the entire street grabbed for the [Thief], but he ran through them, shoving, ducking Frostwing, running faster than anyone could catch up. Durene swore as she ran after him. If she could throw something—he was nearing a break in the crowds, and she had a feeling he was going to make a break for it! He was too quick—

“Watch out! Make way!”

A voice roared to Durene’s left. She drew up as she saw a figure racing at her from the right. A mounted figure. The [Thief] spotted the armored shape rushing down the street on horseback too late. He turned, darting back towards Durene, but the horse galloped into him and tossed him to the ground like a sack of flour. He made a pained cry—the [Rider] turned, leapt from his saddle, and grabbed the [Thief] before he could get back up.

One hand thrust his face into the ground, the other raised a gauntleted fist. As Durene reached the pair, the armored man swung a fist down, and the [Thief], struggling, went limp.

“Got him! You bastard, we finally got you!”

The armored figure crowed as he hauled the man up. He yanked the hood off and then swore. Durene, staring, saw the armored helmet go up. A shock of black hair emerged, and a young face. Beniar, sweaty, hair-tangled, stared in surprise at the man’s face.

“You? You’re our [Thief]? You bastard!”

He shook the unconscious man. Then he looked up and saw Durene. His eyes widened. Beniar dropped the [Thief].

“Durene!”

“Beniar!”

She reached out. The Silver-rank adventurer strode past his snorting horse and grabbed her up in a hug as fierce as her own.

“Durene! Dead gods, it’s a relief to see you! I heard you were up, but I didn’t dare visit—that [Healer] swore she’d stab me if I got near you with a potion again! I’m so sorry! I thought—how are you?”

“I’m fine! Fine!”

Beniar eyed Durene’s chest.

“The infection? It went away? Wiskeria said I shouldn’t pour a potion on it, but I thought—dead gods, she nearly killed me. Everyone did!”

“It’s fine. You didn’t know. I would have done the same thing.”

Durene touched her chest. Beniar’s expression twisted, but then he looked down.

“And here you are! Catching the damn [Thief] who caused us so much trouble for weeks!”

“He did? I mean—I was just there. I saw him grab that [Trader]’s bag. Why are there thieves in Riverfarm? We have nothing to steal!”

Durene was shocked. The adventurer, no, the [Cataphract] just shook his head. He adjusted the full-body plate armor that was a symbol of his class; his steed was likewise enveloped in mail. He cut a fearsome sight, as did the [Riders] who only now caught up to them. Durene saw a band of fifteen riding down the street—seven the way Beniar had come, eight the other way. Clearly, this had been a trap.

“You got him, Beniar? Who’s that? Durene?”

One of the [Riders] called out. Then she slid off her horse. More of them exclaimed, and Durene saw familiar faces, adventurers and [Soldiers], coming off their horses. They surrounded Durene and then stared and swore as they saw the [Thief].

“Master Elmmet?”

“The very same. This bastard’s our [Thief]. I’m sure of it!”

Beniar scowled and kicked the comatose [Thief] in the stomach. Hard. The man groaned; Durene winced.

“What’d he do?”

“Only steal from anyone with coin for the last two weeks! Look—he’s got a face-changing Skill! I swore I saw a young man just a second ago.”

Beniar crouched down and showed Durene the man’s face. Durene saw dark brown hair and a beard. She frowned—she could have sworn the [Thief]’s face had been younger, clean-shaven, and light blonde!

“I saw a woman before Frostwing attacked him.”

“That’s how you ratted him out? I was just mounting up with the patrol when I heard the shouts. Lucky!”

Beniar whistled. He looked up as Frostwing, screaming, her beak bloody, swooped down. All the [Riders] ducked, and two horses reared; Durene caught Frostwing on one arm and reached out.

“Good girl. Good Frostwing. You were amazing. Stop screaming? Please?”

Miracle of miracles, Frostwing did. She inspected the [Thief], looking very pleased with herself as she cleaned her beak on her plumage. Beniar whistled.

“Frostwing. I haven’t seen her since…yesterday. Prost makes me leave the food out. Durene, did you see Bismarck? That huge bear’s camped out behind your cottage!”

“I was there last night. How come no one fed Frostwing? Why didn’t she go with Laken?”

“It was too dangerous, according to him. They were fighting Goblins. He thought you’d be on your feet in a week. But for me, you would have. And after that—I tried feeding her, but she tried to savage me! But for the armor, she’d have taken chunks out of me. You know she’s been hunting too? I saw her kill a fox just last week!”

Beniar reached out to Frostwing. She obligingly pecked at his face, and he backed off. Durene soothed the bird again.

“I just woke up, Beniar. This is so much to take in—you know this [Thief]?”

The adventurer, reminded, scowled and looked down.

“Know him? He’s a big shot from Lancrel. Ah—they’re one of the big groups that came to Riverfarm when you were asleep. Those bastards are always saying they should have more of a say. They want to vote a [Mayor] in place of Prost—they keep saying that as if we don’t have an [Emperor]! But they’ve never seen Laken. His Majesty. Apparently, this fellow was part of their leadership. Well, looks like he was just a dirty [Thief] again!”

He went to kick the man with a big windup, and one of the [Riders], an adventurer who’d been part of the Celestial Trackers, stopped him.

“Save it, Beniar! Let’s get this idiot tossed in the pillory or to Lady Rie or Mister Prost. They can sort it out. Elmmet’s one of Lancrel’s big leaders. [Thief] or not, they see you kicking him and there will be another fight.”

“So? We’re keeping order! They want a fight? Let them get some swords and we’ll have it out!”

Beniar snapped back, but his hot-temper cooled as he looked at Durene. He spat on Elmmet and shook his head.

“You’re right, Alvais. And we have to patrol. One—no, two of you take Elmmet straight to Prost. Anyone asks, you don’t answer! Don’t stop until he’s there and in chains! The rest of you, mount up! We need to sweep the road! I’ll get the gold back to Trader Gellid, but we need to check the roads before he takes them. Those [Bandits]…”

The other riders nodded. They began mounting their own horses as Beniar strode over to his. He paused, then turned back to Durene.

“Sorry, Durene. But we’ve got to ride. There’s a [Bandit] group hitting the roads, and without Laken, we need to escort everyone there. I’ll catch you tonight, yeah?”

“Of course. It’s great to see you, Beniar. But—[Bandits]? [Thieves]? What’s happened?”

Durene waved at the limp man being hoisted over a saddle horn. One of the [Riders] shouted for the crowd who’d gathered to watch to make way. Beniar glanced at the sea of faces, and Durene, turning, caught them as well. She jumped to see how many were just…watching. More people than Riverfarm had ever held were staring at her and Beniar. And the [Thief]. Frostwing flapped her wings uneasily. Beniar nodded at the crowd.

“That happened. It’s crazy. Once that Lord Veltras showed up, things quieted down. But people just kept pouring in. Without a home. And with Emperor Laken gone, everything’s a bit…off, you know?”

Durene nodded quietly. Beniar put his helmet back down and shook his head.

“When he gets back, everything’ll be alright. Until then—I’m glad you’re back. Talk to Prost and see if you can join up with us. We could use your strength, Durene.”

“Fighting? Wiskeria told me she resigned. Where’s the army?”

Beniar paused. He slid his visor up and looked soberly at Durene.

“Besides the militia? We’re all of it. We need Wiskeria back. I can’t do this alone. Tell her that, would you?”

He nodded at Durene. Then he turned and galloped away. Durene watched him go. Then she found Chimmy in the crowd. Beniar wheeled his mount and roared.

“Darksky Riders, with me!”

They galloped off. Silently, Durene let Chimmy lead her back, and the crowd, moving out of her way, decided to get to their jobs as well. The girl found her father seeing to the [Thief]. The two [Riders] were hauling him to a house, and Prost’s disgusted look turned to one of relief when he saw Durene and his daughter.

“Chimmy! Durene! I heard about the thief. It was Master Elmmet all this time? Disgusting. The man was a [Councilman]! That disgusting, Creler-sucking—and what’s worse, Lancrel’s folk are already saying he’s been set up!”

He swore, and Chimmy, listening, glowered just as fiercely as her father. Prost noticed her watching and turned red. He coughed.

“Chimmy, thank you for bringing Durene to me. Go back and help the [Cooks] now, or your mother and the [Washer] teams. There’s a good girl.”

“Aw, Da! But I could help Durene out! She doesn’t know where to go, and I—”

“Back to work, Chimmy!”

The girl went, sulkily, pausing to wave at Durene. Prost closed his eyes. He looked tired, and the sun was barely up. Durene looked in the direction of the [Thief].

“That was really a [Councilman]?”

“City folk. They don’t know their own neighbors.”

Prost sighed disgustedly. He ran a hand through his greying hair then looked at Durene.

“I heard you helped catch the [Thief]. Thank you, Durene. We don’t have much, but what we do have, that bastard took. He stole gold from people who had only that after losing everything, raided our stocks until we started putting locks up and guards…it’s a nightmare.”

He passed his hand across his face.

“At least this stops one of the problems. There are more [Thieves] than him—and fights. Dead gods. Someone died in a brawl a week back. It’s madness, Durene. But Beniar and his [Riders] keep the peace.”

“I met him. He said he’s all that’s left of the army. Is that true?”

Durene anxiously looked at Prost. He nodded.

“Did you hear? Wiskeria resigned from being a [General] after the battle. Not that I blame her—she stays out of Riverfarm for the most part. Most people understand she wasn’t to blame, what with whoever sent that [Message], but there’s a lot of folk who’ll throw stones just as soon as look at her.”

“We need an army. If we have [Bandits] and—and [Thieves], we need more people! I’ll help! I just need a weapon and my shield.”

Durene looked at Prost. He half-nodded, then switched it to a shake of the head.

“Wiskeria won’t budge. And we don’t need more [Soldiers], Durene. What we need—according to Lady Rie, that is—is [Guardsmen]. A proper City Watch, according to her.”

“Well, maybe I can help. If there are thieves stealing from your warehouses, point me to them. I can stand guard. Give me a club—I’ll just use a fist.”

Durene made one. Prost eyed it and shook his head again, brisk.

“They’re [Thieves], Durene. Not brigands or murderers. If you hit one of them—remember that fellow who was robbing houses around Riverfarm a while back? He tried your cottage, and you caught him.”

He looked at Durene, and her face went slack as she remembered.

“Four years ago. Yeah, I remember. I hit him.”

“More than once. He was half-dead when we found him. Broken bones in his face; even the [Healer] thought he might not make it. I know he was a [Thief], but dead gods, Durene, I was terrified of you back then. I wouldn’t want people to think of—well, with so many not knowing you—”

Prost stumbled over his words, looking at her carefully. The half-Troll girl just stared back. She touched her chest slowly.

“Scared of me? Back then—I was terrified, Mister Prost. It was a [Thief] with a dagger! He tried to stab me, and I was so scared I kept hitting him—maybe you thought I went too far, but I was so frightened! I cried for three days and didn’t leave my cottage once after he was taken away. And no one came by to tell me he was gone.”

“Oh.”

The [Steward] stared up at Durene. His jaw opened, and he worked it soundlessly. Closed it. His voice was strangled.

“That’s odd. I don’t remember that. We were so focused on whether he’d live or die that…”

He looked up at Durene, and an expression of shame flashed across his face.

“I’m sorry. Dead gods, I never thought of that. Back then…”

“You didn’t call for me unless you needed me to lift something. I get it.”

Durene crossed her arms. On her shoulder, Frostwing screamed softly. Prost hung his head.

“That’s the truth. But hear me, Durene: if we were unkind, it’s nothing compared to these city folk. They bother me, some of them. Lady Rie’s good at handling the Lancrel lot especially—they look up to her, but it only goes so far. We are in control. But until His Majesty gets back, neither Rie nor I want to upset this lot. The people who know His Majesty are about a third of Riverfarm now. And there are good people among the new ones. But…”

“I get it.”

The girl exhaled slowly. She’d seen the looks she’d been getting. Prost patted her shoulder.

“Don’t worry, Durene. There’s plenty of need for your strength outside of keeping us safe from [Thieves]. I’ve got two dozen former [Sentries] and [Watchmen] and so on guarding what needs guarding. Shame more of them didn’t come to Riverfarm, but I suppose they thought there were no jobs for them here. Hah! That’ll change. But for now, we could use your help building houses or clearing new ground.”

Durene forced a smile onto her face.

“Sure. I’ll be glad to. Although I need some time to repair my cottage if I’m living there. It’s a mess. Water’s damaged my floor—and Frostwing and Bismarck have torn it apart.”

“Agh. I know we should have kept it up. But those two scared everyone away—it’s good to see you managed to get to Frostwing. Poor bird.”

Prost nodded at Frostwing. The ‘poor bird’ eyed the man, then casually raised one leg and evacuated her bowels onto Durene’s shoulder. Both girl and man stared at the bird. Frostwing rubbed her beak affectionately on Durene’s cheek. Durene threw up her arms.



——



Some things were new. Like a town full of staring people. Other things never changed. A cottage was a cottage. You fixed it up the same way. Prost was only too happy to direct Durene to whatever supplies she needed, and an ecstatic Chimmy was brought off dish-washing duty to help out. The [Steward] also showed Durene to some spots she could be helpful, like [Woodcutters] excavating stumps to make more farmland.

“Honestly, you’ll be useful in any spot you want to go, but I’ve no notion of ordering you about. You’re still waking up, and you’re…you. You do what needs doing. Cottage first, and then wherever you need to be.”

The [Steward] nodded deferentially to Durene. She felt odd, seeing the [Woodcutters] looking at her and appraising her. Everyone jumped when Prost gave the orders—he and Rie ran this place, but he wasn’t going to give her orders? Embarrassed, she pulled at a tree stump and yanked it and a mountain of dirt up. Of course, that made the [Woodcutters] just stare harder. It was a rare sort of girl who could pull up an entire root system one-handed.

Cottage first, with food, nails, a cart of wood, a replacement ladder, and broom. Durene spent six hours fixing up everything, giving Bismarck a permanent home, and relocating Frostwing’s nest, much to the bird’s displeasure. The Mossbear hadn’t moved much since Durene had left him there; indeed, he seemed content to just laze about and eat.

“I suppose that’s heaven for a bear. But you need to work. Do something!”

Exasperated, Durene stared at Bismarck. He just opened one eye and huffed. She could sense the contentment rolling off him. This was the life. Glowering, she poked him with the broom handle until he moved so she could sweep his pellets out of the way.

But mainly, Durene was just glad to be doing something. Her work on the cottage occupied most of her day, and only when evening fell did Durene realize she had nothing more she really needed to do here. She looked at her repaired home, shook her head, and then thought of Riverfarm. Immediately, the mountain of problems crashed down on her shoulders—and she knew that she didn’t know all of what ailed the town!

“It’s too much. How can I help? I can pull some stumps up or hit a [Thief]. But I’m not Rie. Or Prost. Or even Beniar.”

Durene sat outside, feeding Frostwing a snack. The bird shrieked happily, and Durene winced. She looked down at her hands, then thought about something.

“[Bandits]? Prost might be right about needing a City Watch. But [Bandits]? That’s too much. Beniar and his [Riders] can’t handle [Bandits] alone, can they?”

Maybe they could. Or maybe they couldn’t. But imagining him and his few dozen riders (had they expanded or lost members since the battle?) faced against another enemy like the Goblins gave Durene shudders. That decided her. Rather than go and help out, she put away her tools, let Frostwing hop on the cloth shoulder pad that was extremely washable, and set off in search of Wiskeria.



——



She found the [Witch] in the same place she’d found her yesterday: in the graveyard. This time, Wiskeria wasn’t alone. Black shapes had descended and landed on the gravestones all around her. Not ravens either. This time it was crows. A murder of them.

“Wiskeria. Come!”

Durene froze as she stepped into the cemetery. The voice issued from dozens of beaks, a cawing, calling sound. The only sound in that silent place. The crows’ beady eyes locked on the [Witch] dressed in the same blue robes and hat as yesterday. Wiskeria stood among them, her back straight.

“No. I told you, no. Tell your mistress that. Tell them! Mavika! I won’t go! I know you’re listening! Tell them! Please!”

The crows didn’t like that answer. They took wing and flew around Wiskeria in a tight circle.

“Wiskeria! COME!”

“No!”

She shouted at them, but that only enraged them more. A crow darted out. It snapped its beak, and Wiskeria ducked. Another struck her hat with talons. A third struck Wiskeria from behind, and she staggered. Durene, frozen, gasped; blood was running from the back of Wiskeria’s head. A crow darted again at Wiskeria’s cheek and drew blood; the [Witch] jerked. If she hadn’t, the beak might have struck her eye.

“You can’t force me! I know the rules! I have to make things right here!”

“COME! WISKERIA.”

This time, the cawing voices were blended. And the voice that spoke didn’t sound like a crow’s mockery of language. It sounded…different. Not Human. But not an animal’s sound either. A mix of the two.

The circling crows tightened around Wiskeria, biting, clawing. She shielded her face.

“I—refuse—”

She sank down as the claws dragged at her robes, and the murder of crows descended, landing, pecking. It was at that moment that Durene couldn’t hold back. She surged forwards, shouting and waving her arms.

“Hey! Get lost! Begone!”

The crows turned on her. It was so fast that Durene only saw them covering Wiskeria then flying at her face. She shielded her eyes reflexively and shouted as dozens of beaks began hammering at her skin. Her body was tougher than Wiskeria’s, but the screaming birds were terrifying. Birds didn’t act like this!

“Get off! Get—”

Durene flailed, but although she struck a few forms, the birds refused to abate. Wiskeria was shouting something. Durene felt a flash of heat, and a crow screamed. They turned on both girls. And then, above them, Frostwing shrieked and dove.

The press of bodies broke up at once. The crows fled as Frostwing, shrieking louder than Durene had heard her yet, smashed into a crow. They turned to mob her, but Frostwing was quick! She struck with talons and beak and flashed upwards, nearly as fast on the ascent as diving. The crows tried to follow, but Frostwing dove again, and the crack as she struck a second crow sent the bird crumpling on top of a grave, neck twisted.

That was enough. Or it would have been if birds were like people. Kill or hurt a few people in a gang of bullies and the rest might flee. But the flock—no, Durene remembered what they were called.

The murder of crows saw their second brethren fall and mobbed Frostwing. Then the younger bird was shrieking, dodging away from a sea of beaks and talons.

“Frostwing! Here! Here! Help—”

Durene was swatting at crows as the bird flew into her arms, and she shielded Frostwing from the merciless beaks. They were sharp! Durene shouted and closed her eyes, but her skin was too tough for the flock to get at. But they were landing on her, trying to kill Frostwing—Durene flailed one hand, knocking several off of her hard enough to break their bones, but these were insane—

She was about to break into a run when a voice snapped.

“Mavika! I said—enough! Upon my hat, send your crows away. Or a flock I’ll slaughter this very day.”

The voice was Wiskeria’s. And Durene heard a loud cracking sound—then another. She opened one eye open as the murder of crows suddenly became panicked cawing. What she saw was Wiskeria. No longer shielding her face, but brandishing a length of cloth.

And she was using it like a whip! Cracking the wet cloth so fast through the air it sent two crows to the ground, stunned—and Wiskeria put her foot on one’s body very lightly so she wouldn’t kill the thing.

“My friend doesn’t know your ways. Don’t make this personal.”

Wiskeria stared at the crow’s beady eyes—then lifted her foot. Whomever she was talking to, or maybe the flock itself, decided it had had enough.

The crows fled. Frostwing, victorious, screamed and tried to pursue them, like the idiot she was. Durene grabbed her, and Frostwing squirmed—then decided she wanted to savor her kills. She alighted, tearing at one of the two dead crows she’d savaged.

Shakily, Durene lowered her arms. Her skin was cut, but not even deep enough to draw blood. Wiskeria, shaking her head, was bloodied. Red ran down the back of her head, but she wound the bandage around it.

“Wiskeria—”

“I’m fine. I’m fine. I just need a bit of healing potion. Not even that. Sorry you were involved, Durene. That’s Mavika. She’s almost as bad as my mother.”

The [Witch] shakily readjusted her hat. She looked at the crows that Frostwing was tearing into and shook her head.

“I didn’t think she’d go that far. And two of her crows are dead. She’ll be furious.”

“Who will? What was that?”

Durene was still shaken from the attack. She stared at Wiskeria. The [Witch] inhaled, but to Durene’s disbelief, she didn’t seem shaken so much as upset.

Two similar emotions, but the fear, the surprise? It wasn’t there. Wiskeria. She nodded off to one side.

“Let’s clean up the feathers. And the birds. I don’t want them staying here if someone comes to look.”

A few minutes of picking up feathers later—Frostwing took the bodies—the two young women stood on the road to Durene’s cottage. Wiskeria was still breathing heavily. So was Durene for that matter. The [Witch] shook her head as she watched Frostwing cleaning her bloody beak.

“Dead gods. I knew that birds like Frostwing were hunters, but I didn’t know they could kill one of Mavika’s flock.”

She seemed very impressed. Durene was still on ‘shock’ and began to blurt out questions.

“Mavika? Who’s that? Does she own the birds?”

Wiskeria nodded.

“That’s right. She sent them to get me. Or threaten me, really. She’s not happy I’m not agreeing to join her. I know I should, but right now—I can’t. Something must have happened if she’s trying to form a coven. She’s a loner, you see. But she wants me because…well, I think she wants to mentor me. It’s not like I matter at the moment. Maybe it’s prestige? Either way, she doesn’t take ‘no’ for an answer.”

“Coven?”

Durene was lost. But the word was…familiar. In a vague way. Wiskeria nodded. She took a breath.

“Durene. You know that I’m a [Witch]?”

“Of course.”

“Well. I’m supposed to be part of a coven. That’s a group of [Witches] that meets every few months. It’s…well, I suppose you could say it’s part of my class. I know most classes don’t have that, but we do.”

“A coven. I think I’ve heard of them. I’ve never actually met a [Witch] before you. And you’re not like—”

Durene closed her mouth. Wiskeria smiled shortly, eying her as she dabbed at the blood on the back of her neck with a wet handkerchief.

“What? Like all the stories?”

“I don’t know many.”

Durene lied. She knew a few, even though she didn’t go to Riverfarm. But they were all old stories, like the [Witch] who gave a hero an enchanted brew to help him fight the evil [Warlock]. Or the [Witch] who poisoned the fair [Damsel] until a [Knight] or [Prince] could wake her with a kiss. But she didn’t mention that. Nor did she need to. One quirk of Wiskeria’s lips said that she saw through Durene’s lie.

“Everyone has stories about [Witches]. I’m afraid we’re common in old stories.”

“Are they true?”

Durene blurted that out. And she saw Wiskeria hesitate.

“Most of them are. I can’t fly on a broom, for instance. At least, not the brooms in Riverfarm. I can do a number of things. Cast spells, like that fire I threw at the crows, brew things, and so on. But I’m afraid a lot of stories are exaggerated. Or about high-level [Witches]. I’m neither.”

“Oh.”

It was a bit rude to talk about levels. Embarrassed, Durene studied her feet. She wore nice, sturdy boots most of the time, but she only had one pair, so sandals were her other option. She could make them herself, and her feet’s soles were tough.

She didn’t want to make Wiskeria feel bad—not that Durene had many levels either! But Wiskeria was more matter-of-fact about it. She just looked regretful, so Durene pressed on, trying to be mindful of Wiskeria’s feelings.

“The crows. Do they belong to the [Witch]? Mavika? I heard of [Witches] owning black cats.”

“Some own other animals. It’s part of our class. Mavika’s a strong [Witch]. A great witch, some say. I don’t know if she’s there with the greats, but she’s certainly among the strongest of this era. And she can make her crows talk or carry messages or do things. It’s not like being a [Beast Tamer]. But she’s powerful. I don’t want to make her mad, but she’s insisting I join the coven, and I don’t want to. I also don’t have to, no matter what she thinks.”

Wiskeria answered slowly, and Durene opened her mouth. Wait, go back. ‘Not a great witch’, but also ‘strongest of this era’? It seemed like a contradiction in terms!

It occurred to Durene she knew less of Wiskeria than she thought. The [Witch] had been part of a Silver-rank team, though she hadn’t been a full-time adventurer, and she had made Laken’s acquaintance, and he’d made her a [General], a job Durene thought she’d done amazingly well for someone just given the class.

But Wiskeria’s nature as a witch? Durene pressed on, fumbling for information.

“Why do you need to go to a coven in the first place?”

That seemed to be the wrong question. Wiskeria looked a bit insulted and tugged on her hat’s brim.

“I am a [Witch], even if I’m low-level compared to most. Witches have to have a coven. It stands to reason.”

“What reason?”

Another shrug.

“A witch should not be alone. We’re too few. And our power isn’t in just casting spells like [Mages]. Or—or potions or animals or any one thing. We’re strongest in our coven. Besides, those are the old ways. And [Witches]—we’re all old ways. A witch who isn’t in a coven is surely a bad witch. The worst of the worst. And I don’t want to be that.”

Wiskeria murmured to herself. She seemed to be repeating something from memory. Durene just blinked at her. There was a faraway look in Wiskeria’s eyes. Then she shook herself.

“…But I don’t have to have one right now. Witches can wander, and you have to fit in. Mavika knows that, but she insists because she thinks I need it. Or it’s just her. She’s really into the old ways.”

“I saw that. But can’t you go? It’s not as if…well, it’s not as if you’re being a [General] here, are you?”

Durene hesitated before saying that, but she did say it. Wiskeria tensed up, but Durene didn’t look away. Wiskeria took a deep breath.

“I told you—”

“Beniar says he can’t handle everything alone. We need an army, Wiskeria. Remember the Goblins? What if they come again?”

The [Witch] tugged distractedly on her hat, then adjusted her spectacles.

“I know that. I know. But I just—I can’t do it. I thought I could, Durene, but I can’t act as a [General]. I guess you do need years of training. I was so overconfident I got people killed. I thought I had the talent to just pick up the job. If need be, I could step into the role, but only if need be.”

“If need be? You mean, you’re waiting for a disaster!”

Durene’s brows shot together. Wiskeria raised her palms defensively.

“I don’t want to! But I’m the only [General]. You’re right. But no one would trust me! Don’t you think I know that too? If I’m needed, I’ll do what I can. Until then—”

“You should take command now! We need you! Laken needs you! Prost could use someone to chase down [Bandits], to help—”

Wiskeria raised her voice.

“I can’t. Durene. I can’t do it. I tried my best, but I was too low-level. Too inexperienced. I’d repeat the same mistakes, and none of us want that. Here I thought I could do everything, just like a story from when I was a child. I’ve been thinking on my path forwards. What I did wrong. Whether I want to continue trying to even be a [General].”

The [Witch] sighed and hung her head. That made Durene angry.

Not just because of how self-defeating Wiskeria sounded, but because—and Durene had just realized this—it wasn’t guilt she was hearing. There was some, but mostly, Wiskeria sounded angry at herself. That she had failed to lead the army, make the right decisions.

The dead almost sounded like an afterthought. She had cried in front of Durene, but not wept. Her voice was steady—unnaturally so. Just like when she talked about her mistakes, and now, after surviving a crow attack, which had Durene rattled—Wiskeria’s voice was closer to matter-of-fact.

So Durene snapped at her.

“Well, what are you doing? Sitting in a graveyard, fighting with crows?”

“Well, if I go into the village, I get pelted with rocks, by that Rehanna woman most of all. Everyone’s filled up with sadness, but I don’t want to take it from them. I’d let them throw rocks to make themselves feel better, but I got tired after the fourth time, and I don’t want to put Mister Prost to trouble. Tensions are already high enough.”

Durene felt struck, as if she had felt the stones hitting her—and she had, hundreds of times. She knew exactly what that was like. Children, or even parents, hurling a rock at the ‘Troll’. And yet—Wiskeria didn’t look half as upset as Durene, who seized Wiskeria’s shoulders.

“Don’t let them throw rocks at you!”

“So I should break their arms? That wasn’t my first thought.”

Wiskeria eyed Durene dubiously, and the half-Troll girl spluttered.

“No! Shout at them! Get Prost to arrest them for a day or something! I’ll stop them! No one will throw stones at you, or I’ll—I’ll—”

She let go and clenched a fist, unable to articulate what she’d do. Then she worried about what might happen if she lost her temper. Then she decided she didn’t care.

But Wiskeria’s smile was just crooked, and again, not angry. She shrugged.

“Eh. They have bad aim. Again, I did get their family members and children killed. Some people deserve to have rocks thrown at them, Durene.”

“Not you or me.”

The Troll girl’s eyes were wide, and her throat was tight and burning. Wiskeria blinked, glanced at Durene, and her eyes softened.

“Oh, Durene. Not you. I meant me. I’ve done enough to deserve it, both now and in the past. I’d offer them my hand if I didn’t need it, or a pint of blood, but it doesn’t work like that. You don’t deserve stones. Don’t be so sad and ashamed. I deserve them.”

Her yellow-green eyes seemed to shine with such conviction and—sincerity that Durene hesitated. The bond she’d felt with Wiskeria changed. They were both strangers, but Wiskeria…Durene grabbed the [Witch]’s shoulders again. There it was, the dissonance.

“Wiskeria! Aren’t you sad? Why are you talking like that?”

Durene shook Wiskeria, and the [Witch] seemed genuinely upset.

“What? What? I did! Am I not sad enough? Do you need more tears?”

“No, it’s how you talk! You’re not even crying right—look, you’re doing it again!”

“I am crying!”

“Yes, but you’re not actually—”

Frostwing screamed, and both girls jumped. Durene realized she was shouting. Wiskeria had been too. Tears were running from her eyes, but she flushed now, and the [Witch] covered her face with her hat.

Durene felt at her red cheeks. But she stared at Wiskeria, and once more, the tears stopped. Wiskeria stood there, and Durene panted.

“Why aren’t you crying right?”

It was the strangest thing. Was Wiskeria even sad? The [Witch]’s cheeks turned redder, and she almost jerked her hat down to cover her face. Then she looked up and met Durene’s eyes.

An outcast [Witch]. A half-Troll girl. Strangely, they got along. Strangely, Wiskeria talked to Durene, and she spoke now, uncertainly, even shyly, as if confessing something.

“I’m sorry, Durene. I—I never learned how.”

“To what?”

“To cry. To mourn properly.”

“What are you talking about? It isn’t something you learn.”

Durene was annoyed by the response. But Wiskeria just looked at Durene sadly.

“Well, I suppose that’s the problem. My mother never taught me how to weep. I am sorry, you know.”

The [Paladin] stood there, unsure of how to even respond. So she awkwardly nodded her head and changed the subject.

“How long until the coven?”

She meant to ease Wiskeria out of the conversation, but Wiskeria took a shuddering breath—then switched to more casual conversation so fast Durene was left startled. Maybe it was just her way? It was unsettling, though, as Wiskeria replied with a tilt of the head.

“When the two moons are full. We meet then, so it’s not every month. But it’s easy to tell if you know the stars. This time it’s in—”

“Six days.”

Wiskeria broke off. She stared at Durene.

“That’s correct. How do you know that?”

“When the two moons are full, right? I’m a village girl. I know how the moons work.”

The half-Troll girl shrugged. Wiskeria nodded slowly.

“Then that’s when. Don’t worry. Mavika won’t force me again. Not after losing two of her crows. Some of the others might try, but I can say no.”

“If you say so.”

Uneasily, Durene looked back in the direction of the graveyard. Then back at Wiskeria.

“Are you sure you won’t…?”

“I’m sure. If I thought I could, I’d try. But I see how they looked at me. I promised Laken—Emperor Laken, that I’d be his [General]. But until he comes back and decides what to do with me, I’ll stay here. And…help.”

Unhappily, Wiskeria gestured around. Back at the graveyard. Durene realized that was why it was so clean. And she saw, in the distance, the first family walking into it, heads bowed. Mother, two sons, a man, perhaps an uncle or grandfather. But from the way they walked, no father. Wiskeria bowed her head silently. She looked so thin, so faded standing there. Durene couldn’t help it. She transferred Frostwing to her other arm and reached for Wiskeria.

“Do you want to eat at my cottage tonight?”

“What?”

The [Witch] looked up. Durene pointed.

“It’s just up the way. I don’t know what you eat. In the village? It must be harder.”

“I don’t eat there. I forage for myself. It’s not hard.”

Wiskeria muttered. Durene stared at her. She knew there were…roots and berries and such, but she doubted Wiskeria could land more than small game with so many people and [Hunters] about. No wonder she was so thin!

“Come with me. I’ve got food from Prost. We can eat there. And you can sleep in my cottage.”

“I can’t do that.”

“Why not? I’ve got…one bed. But I can sleep on the ground!”

“I have a tent.”

“Then put it up in my garden. Bismarck snores, but you—I can roll him over. Come on.”

Bullying, cajoling, and then switching back to bullying, Durene got Wiskeria to show her the small tent she’d pitched not far from here. Durene yanked up the pegs, grabbed the tent and Wiskeria, and practically carried both under her arms to her cottage.

There she made food. It wasn’t much; just a stew with some meat. Stews were big in Riverfarm, owing to how many people there were. But there was a loaf of fresh-baked bread that everyone, including Frostwing and Bismarck, wanted a piece of.

They didn’t talk about their fight or anything else for a while in pursuit of dinner. Wiskeria ate almost as hungrily as Durene, and the girl was glad to see some color enter Wiskeria’s pale cheeks. She refused Durene’s bed, which was just as well; the tent would only fit Wiskeria. The [Witch] went to bed silently as Durene washed up and Frostwing lay in her nest, pecking at one of the crows’ heads. Durene shuddered when she came back from letting Bismarck lick her pot clean.

“Frostwing, get rid of it. Come on. Be a good girl.”

The bird didn’t want to give up her prize. She pecked at Durene, and the half-Troll girl, grimacing, picked up the head. She carried it outside, ignoring Frostwing’s scream-crying. Durene walked away from Wiskeria’s tent, in which the [Witch] seemed already asleep, and pitched her arm back. The crow’s head was wet and slimy in her grasp. And as she aimed, she felt its beak move in her grip.

“Wiskeria. Come.”

Durene dropped the crow’s head and shouted in horror. The head landed on the ground. She saw the staring eye turn up at her. Something looked through the disemboweled head. The beak opened.

“Wiskeria! C—”

Durene’s sandal smashed the head into the ground. She stomped twice more, feeling the fragile bones and skull crunch. Durene didn’t care. She stomped again and again until, panting, she stared at the mess on the ground. The fragments of beak made no sound.

Shuddering, Durene backed up. Her skin crawled. She walked back into the cottage and grabbed a shovel. With it in hand, she went back and dug up some soil. When the hole was deep—four feet—Durene tossed the remains of the head inside and covered it, pressing the earth down. When that was done, she went back to the cottage.

“What was that shout?”

Wiskeria poked her head out of her tent. Her hat was off her head for once, and her expression was bleary. She must have woken back up. Durene eyed her face and opened her mouth.

“It’s n—”

She began to lie. Then she remembered that a disembodied crow’s head had come to life in her hands and talked to her. So Durene pointed back at the patch of soil.

“One of the crows’ heads—it came to life and said your name. In my hand. I smashed it.”

Wiskeria’s sleepy gaze sharpened. She stared at Durene. The girl shuddered and wiped her hand on her tunic. The [Witch] was silent.

“Well? Is that other [Witch] of yours—is she going to do anything?”

“I think that was it. She can probably still use crows when they’re dead. Or it was some other spell. Crows…well, some of us know necromancy too.”

“Necromancy? You mean you use the undead? Like the Necromancer? From the stories? Az—”

Durene recoiled in horror. Wiskeria shook her head rapidly, noting the shock on the half-Troll girl’s face.

“We’re not [Necromancers]! Absolutely not! No [Witch] I know has any levels in [Necromancer]! Don’t badmouth our craft!”

She pulled her head into her tent. Durene exhaled in relief. She got back to bed slowly, wiping her hands many times. Frostwing snoozed in her nest, and outside, Bismarck’s gentle snoring was even comforting. It was only after Durene was dozing off that she realized that Wiskeria hadn’t really answered her question at all.





Day 53 – Durene



The next day drizzled for a bit before Durene woke up, but the sky was clear when she got up. She knew it had rained from the smell in the air, though, and Wiskeria’s wet tent. It was waterproof, so the wan [Witch] had gotten her sleep. She met Durene in robes much like yesterday’s. Exactly like yesterday’s, in fact. Durene eyed them.

“Don’t you have other clothes?”

“I have another change. But I lost most of my things when we fled the Goblins. It’s fine. I cleaned the blood and the rest off with a cleaning charm.”

It was true, the robes were clean. But that didn’t disguise the fact that they smelled lived-in. That they had no holes was a frank miracle. Durene decided what Wiskeria needed was new clothes. The [Witch] disagreed.

“It’s how I dress! It’s how all [Witches] dress! My mother made this for me!”

“Okay, fine, no replacements, but they smell! And you need a bath! You don’t need to borrow my clothes! Just get some new ones! I’ll get them for you! I’ll even get more robes!”

Wiskeria eventually agreed when she realized Durene was close to stripping her and throwing her into her tub herself. But she was adamant on one point.

“Not my hat! My hat stays where it is! A [Witch] has to have her hat!”

Durene agreed to leave it. She helped Wiskeria fill the tub from a stream with cold water. Durene was about to suggest letting the water warm in the sun when Wiskeria poked her wand into the tub. Durene saw a flash of light, and the water became steaming. She narrowed her eyes at Wiskeria’s smug expression and thought of all the cold baths she’d had to endure.

Silently, Durene handed Wiskeria her soap and slapped Bismarck when he tried to eat it. The Mossbear, affronted, stared at the naked Wiskeria, who covered herself protectively, and at Durene. Seeing nothing of interest, he went back to sleep.

“I’ll get someone to clean your robes. And be back with new ones.”

“What? No, they really don’t need more than a wash. Durene? Durene!”

Wiskeria yelped and grabbed for Durene, but the girl was already trotting away. Durene turned and waved with her other hand as Frostwing decided to sip from Wiskeria’s tub rather than accompany her.

“If someone comes, uh, hide in Bismarck’s fur! Or dance around naked! Isn’t that what [Witches] do?”

“Stupid girls do that! No [Witch] I know will dance about naked anywhere! In a forest? Do you want insects biting you everywhere?”

The [Witch] shouted back. Durene, smiling, just headed into Riverfarm.



——



“Wash? I can wash this. But—ergh! I’ll have to put it in the men’s pile. It’s too foul to go with the good linens.”

Miss Yesel recoiled when she saw and smelled Wiskeria’s robe. It turned out that Wiskeria either couldn’t smell or didn’t know that her cleaning spell only got the outer side of the robe. Durene wrinkled her nose.

“That’ll be fine, Miss Yesel. Can I have some, uh, robes? I need them for Wiskeria.”

Mister Prost’s wife paused as she put the blue robes in a pile of strongly scented clothing. Some of the other [Washers] doing the ceaseless job of scrubbing the clothing by the river looked up. A shadow flickered over Miss Yesel’s face.

“Wiskeria? Of course I can get some robes. Is she staying at your cottage?”

“That’s right. Is that a problem?”

“No…”

Yesel drew the word out as she found some robes for Durene. And the look in her eye told Durene the answer was yes. She had much the same expression she used to have when she’d see Durene in the village. Come to think of it—the woman treated Durene with respect, but she hadn’t ever apologized like Prost had. Maybe for her there was nothing to apologize for. Either way, Durene didn’t feel as comfortable around the woman as Ram or Prost.

“It’s good that you did the delivery. Not that I’d turn anyone with such dirty clothing away, much less Wiskeria. But she isn’t much beloved in Riverfarm. Of course, a good number of those Lancrel troublemakers can’t stop running their mouths, but even Emperor Laken’s folk…”

She meant the original three villages that had come together under Laken’s banner. Durene nodded, but without any agreement.

“I understand that. But Wiskeria did her best. She was tricked! And it wasn’t her fault. We all fought. If we’d been—I’d been…”

Durene fell silent. Miss Yesel opened her mouth and cast a glance over her shoulder. Some of the [Washer] women were silent or as pale-faced as Wiskeria had been in the graveyard. She clapped her hands briskly.

“Time’s been enough for maybes and if onlys, Durene, my dear. You did your best, and no one faults you. Or Miss Wiskeria. It’s just as it is. Take some robes from that basket. We have enough, and I’ll settle the complaints.”

She helped Durene find some green robes that would probably clash with Wiskeria’s blue pointed hat. But Durene didn’t bother arguing. She was walking away from the river when she saw a woman in a dress sweeping towards her with a burly man at her side.

“Durene! I hoped to see you! Do you have a moment?”

It was Lady Rie. Durene hadn’t seen her for a long time. Two days, in fact. The [Lady] briskly walked over despite the dress she wore. Her shoes were fancy but built for walking, and the dress she wore was green and had some kind of cobweb pattern in white near the bottom. It suited her very well, and the envious looks the other women gave her was proof enough. Durene didn’t care. Laken liked her.

And it was a mark of the changing times that Durene’s first response wasn’t to stiffen when Rie appeared, but actually relax and want to speak with her. The half-Troll girl eyed the big man accompanying Rie. He was…

Rie noticed Durene’s look. She turned to the man.

“This is Geram, Durene. You remember? My captain of the guard in my estates. He’s escorting me as my…assistant at the moment. He’s quite good at commanding attention.”

Geram, big, brawny, and unfortunately bald, was certainly all that. A former [Fistfighter] of some renown, his scarred knuckles were a work of art in themselves. And a threat. The man eyed Durene at the same time as she appraised him. And he didn’t seem to like what he saw. He bowed slightly.

“Miss Durene.”

“Ah, Geram. I think Durene is quite safe enough for me to talk to. Go find Nesor and make sure he’s not being bombarded with requests for [Message] spells. I told him to keep up.”

The woman politely turned to Geram. He hesitated, but then inclined his head. He strode off. Durene turned to Rie.

“You’re worried about being attacked?”

Rie smiled. She had a lovely mouth, lips colored green to match her dress today. Durene wondered who she was making the effort for. Rie nodded in the direction Geram had gone.

“Not at all. But a [Lady] must be protected. And there was that incident with Master Elmmet the other day. Terrible business.”

She raised her voice slightly. Durene noticed some of the [Washer] women nodding, others hesitating visibly. Rie glanced at Durene and then pointed delicately further upstream.

“I wouldn’t want to trouble Miss Yesel and the women about their work, though, Durene. Would you like to chat?”

“Of course.”

Durene walked up the river a bit with Rie. This was an open spot; she could see [Farmers] in the distance, working with plow horses to cover more ground while other [Farmers] checked the crops. They were indeed already sprouting, and so quickly! Durene felt a flash of excitement. Rie just regarded the farms with a critical eye.

“Not bad. We’ve harvested once, and I hope to do it again. It’s eased the pressure of feeding everyone, but even with our current fields, I’d like to double what’s there.”

“Double it?”

Durene’s eyes widened. She imagined how much food the current acreage could produce. Enough to feed old Riverfarm for a year, probably! But Rie just sighed.

“This is probably enough to feed the current Riverfarm and have some left over, but what about later in the year? To sell? To stockpile? We need runes of preservation or some other storage system, or simply to acquire cats and weevil-proof a storehouse. But this is simply not enough any way you look at it. Unless you think a [Farmer] can make these fields twice as productive with the right Skills?”

“I—maybe. I wasn’t a good [Farmer]. I had good Skills, but I only had a small garden.”

Durene shook her head. Rie sighed.

“Well, Riverfarm is my responsibility, and Mister Prost, who knows a lot about farming, shares my opinion. And food is but one of the resources Riverfarm lacks. I can make up for whatever shortcomings there are in our resources with my estates’ income, but I will be glad of some assistance from His Majesty. When he finally returns.”

She pursed her lips, not bothering to conceal her displeasure. And Durene, unwillingly, felt a jolt of pleasure at Rie’s expression.

“You think him taking so long is bad too?”

“Taking Goblin prisoners? Not joining Lord Tyrion and the other nobility, who have already returned to their estates? If there were a map of the wrong decisions to make, I’d say Emperor Laken had charted us a splendid course on it. But he must have his reasons, not least because he’s abandoned you in your time of need.”

Rie looked directly at Durene. The half-Troll girl flushed, with pride or embarrassment she couldn’t say. Rie was so direct!

“I—you didn’t act like this before.”

“Before, I was content that things were going well. This is not the time for petty games. Or haven’t you noticed how perilous Riverfarm is? I’m sure Prost is aware, even if he downplays the situation.”

Rie’s voice was low. Unconsciously, Durene bent to address the considerably shorter woman.

“I, uh, did. Do you mean you lied about not needing a bodyguard?”

“Of course I did. Go around unescorted? When the first bands of people started arriving, I told Geram to watch me day and night. Many are simply desperate for a place to live. That is bad enough, but some are dangerous. You’ve heard there have been fights.”

“Prost…mentioned it. But I thought—”

“The folk of the city the Goblins sacked—Lancrel—regard their destroyed city as Emperor Laken’s fault. In his absence, several members of their ruling council seem to believe they deserve a voice in how Riverfarm is run. But for my presence and Mister Prost’s respect, I think they would try to replace him. By force.”

“What?”

Durene felt a chill. She looked back towards the village, as if she could see the Lancrel people. Then she remembered the ones who stared at her and called her a monster. Rie nodded tightly.

“Are you surprised? People who have lost power want it back. Desperately. And the only things holding them back from behaving…well, my position as [Lady], the unity of Riverfarm and the country folk, and the presence of Beniar and his Darksky Riders are keeping order. But one disaster can fan the flames…this business with Master Elmmet may be a problem in itself.”

“He’s a [Thief]. I saw him changing his appearance. I didn’t know he could even do that.”

Durene shuddered. Rie just scowled.

“Level 30 [Thief]. Probably [Master of Faces] as a Skill. The problem is that his people don’t want to admit he is the scum he’s proven himself to be. They dislike being forced to work with ‘common’ [Farmers]. At least, the former upper classes do.”

“So kick them out! They don’t want to work? They can leave!”

Durene’s sharp tone made Rie smile. She flicked a lock of gleaming, dark purple hair out of her eyes. That was another thing Laken had never noticed because Durene had never told him. She wasn’t sure if Rie dyed it or if it was one of those rare hair colors that was the byproduct of some magical accident or bloodline, but a sultry, smooth-skinned [Lady] with purple flowing hair and impeccable dress sense was too much for Durene.

“If only it were that simple, Durene. I’m afraid that even if a revolt didn’t start if we attempted to oust the dissidents, they would quickly turn into a hostile group. As bad as—no, worse than the [Bandits]. And I fear more Lancrel folk are flocking to Riverfarm, not least because many are already here, but because some see the opportunity this group does.”

“They want Riverfarm. That’s so—”

The [Lady] was nodding.

“It’s not all of them. Many are content to work here. It’s only a small core, a hundred, perhaps two, that are truly incorrigible.”

“In—what?”

“Impossible to work with. The rest are just frightened. They believe what the others say, that the Goblins were a ruse or manipulated by Laken to attack the city. Rumors of his ability to find monsters on the road have sadly been turned against him. Obviously, he didn’t protect cities who didn’t declare themselves for him, like Lancrel! And—there’s you. And Wiskeria, I’m afraid.”

“Because I’m half-Troll, and Wiskeria’s the one who lost the battle.”

Durene folded her arms, but she wasn’t mad. Rie was speaking the truth. And it was refreshing. The [Lady] nodded, tapping one foot. Geram had returned with the pale, nervous Nesor, and the two were patiently waiting by the [Washer] women, some of whom were admiring Geram or teasing Nesor.

“Prejudices. I’m sure I don’t have to explain to you. It doesn’t help that Wiskeria is also a [Witch]. Riverfarm has never had a [Witch], or so I understand. But they do crop up across the continent in remote villages for the most part. And their reputation—”

“Poisoned apples?”

Durene snorted. But she saw Rie’s gaze flicker in the direction of Durene’s cottage.

“That is the least of it. I’m sure Wiskeria is honorable. She was not the traitor. That—[Maid] of Magnolia Reinhart was. But her class is…well, I had reservations when I learned she was Emperor Laken’s [General]. I trust his judgment. But [Witches] in general…”

Durene opened her mouth, and then she thought of the crow’s head from yesterday. She closed her mouth. Rie flicked her eyes to her, then looked around.

“I don’t want to keep you too long. The washer ladies will be suspicious if we chat overmuch anyways. But I do wish to speak with you, Durene. If you could convince Wiskeria to take on her role as [General]—”

“You want her back?”

“Do I want an army? Yes. And I should very much like to arm you, Miss Durene. It may agitate some of the Lancrel folk, but they will think twice about anything when they see you fight. Moreover, it might discourage these [Bandits] who are raiding. They’re desperate—most likely hungry as opposed to avaricious—but they’re no less deadly.”

“I’ll see what I can do. But I need to talk to Mister Helm for armor and the like.”

Durene refused to ask what avaricious meant. She could guess. Rie smiled and laid a hand on Durene’s shoulder.

“It is good to see you awake. And I hope you can rise to your class in Emperor Laken’s absence. I will call on you later. Until then—I have to work against Lancrel by keeping them squabbling with each other. And busy.”

She swept off. Durene stared at Rie and rubbed her arm. Rie’s hands were soft. She must use oil on them or something. The half-Troll girl watched her rejoin her companions, and then realized she was still holding Wiskeria’s robes. Guiltily, Durene hurried back towards her cottage.



——



Rise to her class. She was a [Paladin], but she didn’t feel like one. Durene sighed as she strode up the cottage’s path. She wondered if, sometime soon, Riverfarm would put dozens of houses along the lonely walk. It certainly seemed like the village was expanding, and while they hadn’t gone up into the beginnings of the mountain’s foothills, there was only so far you wanted to expand across the flats and forests, right? Unless they were going to build walls to keep it all safe?

Laken would know. Laken would know so much. And without him here, Durene felt like she wasn’t doing anything of value. She was lost without him. And that fact bothered her. He had changed her life as easily as she had ripped that door out of the wall. Now that he was gone, Durene didn’t know what to do with herself.

“Something. I can help without him. I have to. Otherwise, Riverfarm might not be here before he gets back. I have to do something. But what? I’m a Level 16 [Paladin]—what can I do? Fight? Fight what?”

The girl stomped up the hill. Then she heard a shout from the cottage. A female voice, raised—and a male one. Durene stopped, and then she charged up the hill.

Wiskeria was shouting and Frostwing was screaming when Durene got to her cottage at a run. But the scene wasn’t what she expected. A young man wearing a Runner’s insignia was cowering in the door of her house, ducking behind the door as an enraged Frostwing besieged him. She couldn’t get past the door, but Bismarck was snuffling around it, looking peeved. The young man was shouting at Wiskeria.

“Please, Miss! I’m begging you, just send a response! Say yes, and I can go! If not—”

“My answer’s no!”

“Please! I can’t go back to her without an affirmative! Do you know what she’ll do to me if I don’t say yes? The last Runners who got on her bad side—”

He yelped as Bismarck nosed closer to the door and pulled it closer towards him. Wiskeria shouted back.

“Is it worse than being eaten by a Mossbear? Tell her no! I’m not going!”

The City Runner wavered. But he didn’t budge. His eyes were so fixed on Bismarck that he didn’t spot Durene. When he did, his face went pale.

“Oh, dead gods—”

“Hey! That’s my cottage! Frostwing, stop! Bismarck, get back!”

“Durene? Where are my clothes?”

Wiskeria bellowed from around the cottage. The City Runner peeked around the door.

“Please, Miss! I’m terribly sorry. But I’m a City Runner on delivery! I have to have this [Witch]’s response or—”

Durene vanished around the cottage’s side. A few seconds later, a dripping, scowling, but very clean Wiskeria stomped back around. She yanked the door open.

“I said no. And you can’t get another answer from me. Tell Witch Oliyaya that I will not be attending her coven’s meeting, either. And I’ve already told Mavika the same. If she threatens you, run away.”

“That won’t save me. You know what she’s like, don’t you?”

“Her hexes wear off. And she doesn’t hex people for doing their jobs. Just be polite.”

“Polite?”

The young man groaned. Wiskeria was unsympathetic.

“She won’t hex you. Now, get out of Durene’s cottage before she feeds you to her bird. Or her bear.”

The City Runner looked up at Durene. He stared at Bismarck and at Frostwing, perched on Durene’s shoulder. He gulped. Then got up and ran for it. Frostwing took off, and Durene called her back—after she’d dive-bombed the City Runner’s head.

After he was gone, the two stood alone at Durene’s cottage. Wiskeria adjusted her hat and smoothed her green robes, which didn’t clash that badly. She looked reproachfully at Durene. The half-Troll girl had the grace to look ashamed.

“I didn’t know someone would find you here! What did he want?”

“The same thing as Mavika’s crows. I told you, my fellow [Witches] can’t force me to do anything.”

Durene nodded, but she was still a bit wary. She glanced down the road.

“Is it really alright to say no? That City Runner looked—spooked. Are you sure this…Oliyaya won’t do something more serious?”

She was remembering the crow’s head from yesterday. Durene wiped her hand, and Wiskeria noticed. She shook her head.

“She’s not Mavika. She threatens and bullies, and that’s about it. She looks scarier than she is. He’ll be fine. And I’m clean. Thanks for the clothes. What took you?”

“Lady Rie wants you to be a [General] too. She said…”

Durene relayed the encounter. Wiskeria looked grim, but all she did was adjust her spectacles and tug her hat lower in response to Rie’s assessment of the situation.

“I…understand. And I agree. But I’ll just fan the flames if I return to my job. I’m trying to let people grieve. Not throw my failure into their faces. Maybe I can work with Beniar in private. Maybe. If you’re willing to get him to talk to me—if he’s around the village—I can try helping out a bit. But Durene, I’m a [General]. Level 12. That’s high for how fast I leveled, but I have two good Skills I can use in a battle. I’m no trainer of armies. All the stories I know are hard to implement in practice.”

“You’re still the only one good at tactics and other stuff. You helped kill the Goblins. Remember Laken’s poison traps?”

Wiskeria nodded slowly. She sighed.

“That was his idea. But I did make the cauldrons. It’s just—I’ll try, Durene. I’ll try.”

That was better than her attitude yesterday. Durene smiled encouragingly. Wiskeria almost smiled back. Then both girls heard pounding feet on the road behind them. Wiskeria scowled.

“I told you—”

But it wasn’t the City Runner. A young woman, perhaps a former Street Runner herself, pounded up the slope to Durene’s cottage. She stopped, panting, and waved at Durene.

“Miss Durene? Lady Rie’s calling for you!”

Durene frowned. So soon?

“What? Why? What’s the emergency?”

“It’s Emperor Laken, Miss Durene! He’s sent a [Message]!”

The girl froze. Wiskeria looked up at her. Both took off running so fast that the Street Runner was caught off-guard. She ducked as Frostwing dove past her. And even Bismarck roused himself. But that was only to pad eighteen steps down the slope, then decide to go back and have a nap.



——



There were four people who gathered in Mister Prost’s house. Wiskeria, Durene, Lady Rie, and Mister Prost. Wiskeria and Durene were the last to arrive. Durene had run all the way here, but even trying to hurry, they attracted a lot of attention. And the sight of Wiskeria entering the village had provoked even more hard stares than Durene herself.

She hadn’t been lying. But Durene didn’t care. She strode into Prost’s living room, which, under Miss Yesel’s influence, was already homelier than most of the bare rooms. Prost and Rie were reading something as Nesor trembled in a seat behind her.

“Well? What did he say? Is he coming back?”

“Durene. And Wiskeria. This is a pleasant—”

Rie broke off as Durene strode past her. Nesor leaned back as Durene turned to him and Mister Prost.

“Well? What did he say? Is he still talking?”

The [Lady] cleared her throat softly.

“Nesor is in contact with a [Mage] with Emperor Laken. Someone in a Mage’s Guild, in fact. He’s transcribed the message. If you’d care to—”

The slip of parchment made Durene hesitate.

“I—I can’t read that.”

She flushed. Prost cleared his throat, and Rie blinked.

“Of course. Then—allow me.”

She unfurled the slip and read in a clear voice.

“We have passed the town of Greenforge and are continuing north and west. Progress remains slow. The road is secure, and my companions maintain their escorts. We estimate two weeks remaining at most.”

She looked up. Durene and Wiskeria stared at her. Rie sighed.

“The issue is the prisoners. That’s what’s holding them back. The wagons break down, and their captives are not cooperating. Nor is Tyrion giving them any aid now the army has disbanded.”

“That’s it? That’s all he wrote?”

Durene demanded, incredulous. Rie looked down.

“Oh no. He also writes, The situation in Riverfarm is understood. Ask Wiskeria to resume her place if she is willing. I have faith in her. If the situation worsens, I trust in your judgment.”

She tsked.

“I wish he had more advice to give. But then—I suppose even his options are limited. Couldn’t he—no. If he could ride ahead, there would be no point. It’s a miracle that his allies are staying with him so long.”

“Allies?”

Durene felt a pain in her chest, a sinking, weighted feeling. She looked around dully, as if the answer would make this confusing, painful message make sense. Prost nodded.

“Lord Yitton Byres and Lord Gralton Radivaek. They’re riding with Emperor Laken. They’re his companions.”

He pronounced the names with some satisfaction, and even Rie smiled. Durene was just blank.

“They’re [Lords]? Are they important?”

“In the grand scheme of things? The Byres family is small, but notable. They have a silver business that has waned and waxed over the years, but Yitton Byres is as honorable and trustworthy as any [Knight]. More so, in fact. I would consider him a perfect ally, although he isn’t powerful per se. But the respect he garners is value enough. As for Lord Gralton…that shocks me.”

Rie tapped a finger to her lips.

“He’s mad. Eccentric? No. Just mad. More dog than man, according to some, but he’s not only powerful in wealth, but a fierce fighter. With his estates backing Laken—”

“They’re important. Fine. But what else does Laken say? Anything? Does he know about…me?”

The word felt almost plaintive as it forced itself out of Durene’s chest. Rie stopped smiling. Prost and Wiskeria turned to her.

“I…he was informed that you were on your feet. Yes. He writes this at the end. Ah…I am relieved Durene is well. Tell her I am coming home as soon as I can. I am sorry I wasn’t there sooner.”

Durene waited. But Lady Rie rolled up the parchment as if that answered that. The girl looked at her, and her heart hurt.

“That’s it?”

The [Lady] blinked.

“It’s quite a lot. He’s paying for each word at costly rates for such quick sending. Nesor is, of course, free, but Mage’s Guilds cost coin. As for the rest—yes, he doesn’t mention the details, but we have corresponded before. And I think he is being cautious. He may even be using a different location than the one he mentioned out of caution.”

“Caution?”

Wiskeria looked up, frowning underneath her hat. Prost nodded. He spread his weathered hands on the table.

“We don’t know if someone’s following Emperor Laken or might set a trap for him. Lady Rie’s worried about Magnolia Reinhart—”

“As we all should be. Laken is firmly against her, as are many peers of the realm. She is already acting. Riverfarm may not feel the immediate effects of her [Trade War], but she is hardly toothless in other areas. And there is still the issue of the saboteur. The one who knocked out my [Mage], Nesor, and gave the wrong orders to Wiskeria.”

Rie drummed her painted fingernails on the table. Durene looked from face to face. Prost was nodding, and Wiskeria looked grave.

“So that’s his message? Carry on until he returns?”

“It’s two weeks. I think we can manage that.”

Prost was cautious. Rie nodded.

“If we use that information to reassure people—no, he might be closer than that. Remember, he is speaking in an abundance of caution. If need be, I could see him riding closer to us. And if he gets even closer, Beniar and his riders can of course ride to meet him. We should plan on that, in fact. And in the meantime—”

Durene’s fist smashed down on the table. Nesor jumped out of his seat. Rie stopped. Prost and Wiskeria recoiled. Durene stared down at the splintered wood, then looked up.

“That’s it. That’s all he said?”

They stared at her. Durene took a shuddering breath.

“After I’ve been asleep for fifty days? After he was gone—gone!—capturing Goblins instead of killing them? When Riverfarm is falling apart and there are [Thieves] and—and—he can’t say anything to me? To me? And he can’t think of a way to save Riverfarm?”

The others were silent. Prost opened his mouth, but Durene glared at him, and he didn’t speak.

“He’s always had an idea! He’s always cared about Riverfarm? Who is this? Why isn’t he back? Why isn’t he telling us what to do? Carry on? Wait? You.”

She pointed at Nesor. He turned dead white and recoiled from her finger. Durene shouted at him.

“You—send a [Message] back to him! Tell him what I said! Tell him—tell him we’re not waiting! Tell him he should be back now and damn the Goblins! Tell him I’m here! Tell him to talk to me! I want him to say something! We’re in trouble, and we need help! What do we do? What do—”

She broke off, her chest heaving. The room was silent as Nesor, eyes wide, put a finger to his head. Durene’s eyes were bright, and she was blinking rapidly. Next to Rie, Prost coughed quietly into one hand.

“It’s not…that bad, Durene. The Lancrel folk are agitators, some of them, but it’s not got beyond a few fights between our folk and theirs. No one’s armed among them; Beniar’s Darksky Riders could rout a few hundred in moments.”

“At night, they’re practically unstoppable, especially in pitch blackness. I realize I warned you of the risks, but Laken’s aware of the dangers, and I’ve told him we can handle it.”

Rie’s quiet voice made Durene blush. But she kept looking at Nesor as he closed his eyes. She knew she was upset. But Laken’s reply had hurt her. It wasn’t just that she was far from him. It wasn’t just that he’d decided to take Goblin prisoners or that he’d left Frostwing and Bismarck. Or that he wasn’t here when she needed him to tell her it was alright, that losing the battle wasn’t her fault.

It was simply that she wanted to see him again. She missed him. Riverfarm, her world, wasn’t the same without him.

In the silence, as Durene snuffled and tried not to cry, Nesor opened his eyes. He spoke, his voice flat, without intonation, reciting the words one at a time as he caught them tens, perhaps over a hundred miles away.

“I’m sorry, Durene. I’ve made a lot of mistakes. The Goblins are not all evil. I’m afraid. Terribly afraid they’re people. In which case I’m more monster than they are.”

Durene’s eyes opened wide. She opened her mouth, but Rie silenced her.

“He can’t hear you.”

Nesor went on, blindly speaking word after halting word.

“And I’m sorry I wasn’t there. I am coming back. Protect Riverfarm while I’m gone. Please. I know it is dangerous. So watch your back. Wiskeria, I am relying on you. You. And Rie. And Prost.”

The three looked up, old man, [Lady], and [Witch]. Wiskeria looked down and fiddled with the brim of her hat. Prost nodded, straightening his shoulders. Rie just sighed. The voice paused and went on a final time.

“Perhaps there is a storm coming. I feel the danger. So. Durene. I am sending you the only aid I can. I hope it arrives. You will know it when you see it. I love you. And I will be back soon.”

Nesor closed his mouth. The spellbound gaze faded from his eyes, and he blinked rapidly. He looked up, and his nervous, warbling voice interjected into the silence.

“It—uh—the connection broke, Lady Rie. I think that was all of it.”

“Thank you, Nesor.”

Lady Rie looked at him with a reassuring smile and then at Durene. At Prost and Wiskeria. All of them were silent for a bit. Durene wiped at her eyes. And somehow, she felt better. The words had been in Nesor’s voice. And they had come from a long ways away. But she had heard him. He was coming back.

“Help. He said he was sending help? What did he sense? Trouble?”

Rie mused out loud, troubled. She turned to Durene and Prost.

“Emperor Laken said you’d know it, Durene. You and only you, it seems. What is it? Do you have any idea?”

Silently, Durene shook her head and shut her eyes.

“I have no clue.”

And she didn’t. Not one thing came to mind. But she knew it would solve everything. It had to. Laken was going to help save Riverfarm. Whatever aid he was sending would come, she was sure. And it would make all the difference.

If it didn’t? Durene opened her eyes with calm, clear resolution. She would protect Riverfarm. And this time, she wouldn’t fail. She clenched her fists and felt the storm coming. In the distance, the rains began to fall again.



——



And not too far north, and a bit to the east. The rains were already falling, already pouring down on the thick roof overhead. The [Message] spell had come in hot and heavy, and the person it was addressed to leaned on the desk, eying the contents of the message. And the reward. The [Receptionist] at the Runner’s Guild in Walta checked the authentication from the [Mage]’s Guild and nodded.

“The seal is backed by House Byres and House Radivaek. You may claim it upon receipt of…Lady Rie Valerund’s personal seal. We may subject you to truth spell as well. Will you take the delivery?”

The young woman with Asian features drummed her fingers on the table. Her black hair blew as the storm’s gusts hurled open an unlatched pair of shutters and blew cold rain and air into the guild. She shivered as the [Receptionist] waited patiently. And she considered the contents of the [Message]. The hidden meaning. Debts. And her own failures and sins.

Riverfarm.

Ryoka Griffin’s still, silent contemplation was interrupted by the clip-clop of hooves on the wooden floor. A Centauress walked past her and eyed the [Message]. She ignored the [Receptionist]’s scowl as the woman blocked the contents of the message. Charlay, the Centauress City Runner, munched on a stalk of celery and spoke with her mouth open while she chewed.

“Ooh. Is that your first personal delivery request? Lucky. Hey, are you going to throw up out of excitement again?”

“Shut up.”





Interlude – Numbtongue (Pt.1)


It was night when the traveller arrived in Celum. Mainly because he had been moving all night. He wasn’t tired, although he had beaten the sun’s rays to the gates of Celum. He’d gotten his sleep on the wagon, riding here, in pleasant company with a very amiable [Wagon Driver] with two fine horses. And he was a night person anyways.

If anything, the hard part was waiting for Celum’s gates to open. The Human cities of the north didn’t all have walls; some, like Invrisil, were without proper outer walls or had outgrown them, which had advantages and disadvantages. This far south and in proximity to Drake lands, though, the cities of the north tended to copy the Drake standard of boxing in their cities behind a sturdy wall. Not that this one was enchanted or even that high; the traveller thought he could have slipped into the city and past the sleepy patrolling [Watchmen] if he’d needed to.

It would have been easy. But it would have also been rude, so he politely waited for the gates to open in a small queue. Politeness was important. As was a proper appearance. So the Human man checked his travelling coat, made sure his boots were scraped clean, and that there wasn’t any hay on his hat. He was dusty, a bit travel-stained, but he looked very well-kept despite it all. Maybe it was the way he held himself, or perhaps it was his hat.

It was a fine hat the man wore. Comfortable, not stiff, and not necessarily that expensive either; you could find a richer hat on any [Merchant] or well-to-do citizen you wanted. But this hat was beloved. It was custom-stitched, kept safe from any harm—it was a hat to define a man. The traveller held it to his head as a weary [Guard] opened the gate.

“One atta time. Don’t bother giving me your details. I just gotta check your faces.”

The [Guardsman] grumbled as he let people in through the gates. He had a small list of illustrations of wanted faces, and he waved in the people one after another, not bothering to do a search of possessions or asking the incoming traveller’s purpose as he might if something was afoot. The traveller waited in line, patient as you please. And in fact, when he spotted a laboring woman, clearly pregnant, at the back of the line with her husband, he immediately stepped out.

“Excuse me, sir and ma’am? Might I give you my place?”

The man carefully waved at the married couple. The man, clearly weary and escorting his wife—from a nearby village perhaps—gave the traveller a suspicious look. So did the wife. But the traveller tipped his hat, and the smile he gave them was genuine. The couple hesitated, then stepped forwards. The people in line grumbled for a moment, but they stopped as the traveller walked out of line.

“Thank you.”

Puzzled by this common decency, the husband stopped the man. The traveller in his worn clothing just smiled and tipped his hat at the pregnant woman.

“My pleasure, sir. Your lady should be off her feet as soon as possible. A bit of common decency. Think nothing of it.”

“I appreciate it.”

The woman smiled. And that was that. The man with the nice hat stepped to the back of the line. Never mind that it would take a few more minutes; what was time to doing the right thing? Behaving the right way was its own reward.

And sometimes fate liked to reward a bit of decency too. That happened now. The man, standing at the back and watching the married couple go through the gates, spotted someone slipping into the queue ahead of him. Quite roughly too; a slim woman and a man elbowed into line. Or rather, the woman did; the dark figure beside her didn’t get a second glance. She pushed back the married couple.

The husband angrily opened his mouth, but one look from the woman made him shut up. She had an edge to her expression, and her clothes were close-cut. Revealing, even. The man with the hat didn’t look, but the husband did once—before his wife stepped on his foot. The elbowing woman stepped forwards to the tired [Guardsman] without another word, and the traveller with the hat identified her. And her companion.

The [Guardsman] didn’t recognize the [Nightstalker], nor did the people in line. But anyone with the knowing would see it. The thin blades concealed along the sleeves of her arms, the way she held herself, tightly poised—and her beauty.

Her clothes made the [Guardsman] wake up and leer a bit, but her expression made him pass her through the gate quick. Because the woman was attractive, oh my yes. She could and probably still did receive propositions when she walked down the street. That was a remnant of the first class she’d had: [Nightwalker]. But the class she had now was different from that origin. Oh, so very different.

The traveller didn’t speak as the woman passed through the gate, followed by her escort. The [Guardsman] didn’t even check the man. Or notice him. But the traveller did. And when he got to the gate, he saw the pair still walking down the street.

“You’re clear. Go on.”

The [Guard] gave the traveller’s face a quick look and checked the illustration of wanted faces. The man tipped his hat politely.

“Thank you, sir. And a good morning too.”

“Yeah? Get lost.”

The reply was abrupt, rude, and accompanied by a glare. Nevertheless, the traveller just nodded politely. He was polite, even if the man wasn’t. Which was lucky for the [Guardsman].

So came the traveller. And he had no name, at least, none that anyone in Celum needed to know. If anyone had to identify him here, it would be through his class.

[Enforcer]. And a high-level one at that. He strolled through Celum’s gates, past the weary, irritable [Guardsman] without getting a second glance. Because what kind of idiot got their face on a wanted poster? Real criminals, the kind that ran in cities far larger than Celum, would walk in and out as innocent as you pleased.

And the [Enforcer] was a criminal. He thought of himself as a professional instead of a lawbreaker, but he’d admit to the latter readily enough. What differentiated him from the common breed of scum, though, was how he behaved. He and his associates had standards. They were known, in certain circles. Perhaps not in Celum, but then again, the Brotherhood of Serendipitous Meetings had branches in unexpected places. Even here. Or rather, they’d had people in the area.

The [Nightstalker] and her companion were ahead of the [Enforcer], but he’d tagged them the moment he’d seen them. And they hadn’t seen him, so he took the time and identified her. He already suspected who she was, but the instant he saw a scar across one cheek, he was sure. You only got that ragged cut of a scar from a fight. And an improperly used healing potion. A woman of her beauty would normally find a way to remove it with tonic or spell, but one group prized their war scars.

The Sisters of Chell. That also explained the man next to her: apparently extra muscle. The [Enforcer] squinted, casually appraising the man who neither the visitors to Celum nor the [Guardsman] had seen. A man dressed from head to toe in ragged, wrapped bandages, dark, stained in a few places. Ah yes. [Blackguard]. Protector of the underworld. Lawful and lawless.

The [Enforcer] noticed this because he was looking, because he had a ring, and because they were in the same line of business. Most people probably didn’t even see the [Blackguard], hence him not being called out to by the [Hawkers] lined up around the city gates. But even if he was invisible until he attracted attention, people sensed his presence. And they didn’t block the blank-faced man’s path any more than they did the [Nightstalker]’s.

They were dangerous. But they were all in the same line of business, so the [Enforcer], after a quick calculation, stepped forwards. He caught the two unawares; the woman was speaking to the [Blackguard] without turning her head as she flipped off a [Hawker]. She whirled as the [Enforcer] strolled up beside her. The [Blackguard] had already seen him and just warily stepped between the two. But the [Enforcer] just tipped his hat genially to the two and smiled at the [Nightstalker].

“Good day to you, Miss. I hate to be a bother, but I’d be much obliged if we could speak for a moment? In the most sincere and respectful of ways, of course.”

She eyed him. Then the [Nightstalker] turned her head and spat. The [Hawker], who’d been approaching the much nicer-looking [Enforcer], recoiled in disgust as the spit hit him on the front. He backed away, cursing the woman. She ignored him and looked at the [Enforcer]. With a jerk of the head, she started walking down the street. The Brother of Serendipitous Meetings followed.

The [Enforcer] and [Nightstalker] did all the speaking as they walked. The [Blackguard] was a silent shadow, unheard but never forgotten by either. The two didn’t beat around the bush, for all of the [Enforcer]’s niceties. Nor did they ask names. They were both professionals, albeit with different styles. The Sister of Chell sneered at the Brother’s hat and dapper clothing.

“One of the Brotherhood? You’re alone.”

“It’s convenient for me. I spotted you two coming in with the morning. Thought I should give my regards.”

“Lucky for us. Why’re you here?”

The [Nightstalker]’s face said the opposite was true. The [Enforcer] smoothed his jacket.

“Fact-finding, Miss. Just the facts. I see you’re about the same task?”

“No, we’re here for the lovely Celum weather and eating a bucketful of dust to this useless city so far south.”

The woman snapped back. The Brother tipped his hat again.

“Apologies, but it helps to be certain.”

The Sister thought about spitting again, but there was no point. She and her organization knew the Brothers, and they were insufferably like this. She opted to glare instead.

“I’m finishing our investigation today. You want to get out of our way? I don’t need you interfering with our business.”

She gestured to the [Blackguard] with her head. The Brother just smiled politely.

“And here I was hoping we could work together.”

“Hah. We got in here first. And there’s two of us. We don’t trust you, and you probably don’t trust us—if you’re even here to investigate and not intercept us.”

The woman’s glare spoke of paranoia and deep suspicion. The [Enforcer] sighed. It was good he’d approached her without her noticing him tailing them. It might have been…complicated otherwise.

“I can assure you, Miss, our meeting was purely serend—”

“Don’t you fucking say it.”

The [Enforcer] stopped. The [Nightstalker] rounded on him and glared. Her hand inched towards one of the flat blades on her wrists.

“Leave off Celum for a day. Then you can poke around. Otherwise, bring back more of your brothers. We’re going this alone.”

The [Enforcer] sighed. Negotiations weren’t going well. He tugged on his hat a bit, vexed, but his voice was still polite.

“I’d hate to bother my associates. And I’d hate to be so rude as to say leaving you to do your investigating might mean we lose any evidence my associates are looking for. But the fact remains that we find it ve-ry suspicious about what went down and all.”

“Join the club! We don’t trust your word, and you sure as hell don’t trust ours. But you’re alone. You don’t even have the numbers to settle things with the Plague Mage if he’s responsible.”

The [Enforcer] sighed.

“I’m not sure if our middleman’s still in the area—if he’s not, one of my peers’ll find him to ask some questions. Not harsh, of course; just pressing. Unless the answers are that distressing. But I’m here to find out what went down, and I can’t delay my investigation. If I meet our middleman, I’ll have a word. As for our interests—can’t we agree to work together or, at least, alone in amiability? That’s preferable to me.”

“Eat shit. And get out of the city.”

The [Nightstalker] glared. She nodded to the [Blackguard], and the man reached for something concealed by his clothing. The air grew tense as the three stopped in the street. The [Enforcer] considered his options. He looked from the [Nightstalker], whose crossed arms meant she was ready to draw, and then at the [Blackguard] hovering over his shoulder, already holding his weapon.

The [Nightstalker] smiled arrogantly. She knew they had him dead to rights. Still, the [Enforcer] refused to budge. He sighed, and then slowly, deliberately, he reached up. And he took his hat off.

The two hadn’t expected that. The Sister of Chell’s eyes widened, and the [Blackguard] moved. His hand flashed—and he froze as the [Enforcer], hatless, turned and gave him a look. The Sister of Chell didn’t see the expression on the [Enforcer]’s face, but she saw her companion halt mid-strike. The Brother of Serendipitous Meetings slowly flicked at something on his cap, then placed it back on his head. The air, which had gone from tense to intense, relaxed just a hair. The Sister of Chell exhaled.

“Don’t you dare threaten—”

“Just a bit of dust, Miss.”

The [Enforcer] gave her a polite smile. But what was said and had been done spoke volumes. Rattled, the [Nightstalker] looked at the [Blackguard]. And the tiny shake of the head and his wide eyes told her she’d misjudged the level and nature of the [Enforcer]. Slowly, she let go of the hidden blades she carried and thought fast. At last, grudgingly, she jerked her head.

“Fine. We go together. That way we can watch you. Don’t get in our way. We work together until we find something. Deal?”

“A most amiable decision. Thank you for your consideration, Miss.”

The [Enforcer] tipped his hat. The [Nightstalker] just made a disgusted sound and walked off. He followed her, and the [Blackguard] trailed the two. An accord had been reached, and as difficult as the negotiations had been, they now had an agreement. So the air eased between the two, at least for the moment.

When you had a deal, you trusted the other party, especially when those present represented larger organizations. If one or the other were to break the accord, there might be ramifications that went far beyond them. So neither was inclined to do so. There was security in having more to fear from your own side than the other’s. It was what made the…lesser known side of cities run so smoothly.

Not that Celum was used to the trio that strolled down the street. The [Enforcer] and [Nightstalker] looked around the city, taking in the scenes, the sights—Celum probably held ten thousand people at most. It was small, quaint in the [Enforcer]’s lexicon of words. The [Nightstalker] would have used a different word to describe it.

“I must confess, I’m not at a firm place to start, Miss. Do you have a preference? I might grab a drink and scope out the scene first.”

The [Nightstalker] snorted.

“They sent you here without intel?”

“Mm. More like I would’ve met some of the chaps if they’d been about. Unfortunately…”

“Hah. Well, we have information. This way. We’re headed to an [Alchemist]’s shop.”

The [Nightstalker] moved down the street, clearly following a map in her head. The [Enforcer] nodded and followed. They made good time; dawn was still breaking. And they came to the little store down a side street quick enough. The [Enforcer] peered at the boarded-up front. He could see into the store through the glass door, but the twice-repaired front already told him an interesting story.

“Stitchworks? Fancy seeing one of the String-folk around here. She any good?”

“Don’t know. Don’t care. Take a look at that, though.”

The Sister of Chell nodded to a small sign attached to the front of the store. The Brother read it, frowning.



Potions half-off! No longer selling ‘matches’; please inquire at Alchemist Quelm’s.



He nodded.

“So that’s the game, is it?”

“Part of it. Come on. That’s who we’re finding next.”

“And this store?”

“Where both teams went in.”

The [Enforcer] paused and gave the shop a sharp glance. He could tell someone was inside; there was a light on. But the shop’s sign said ‘Closed’. For good reasons, no doubt. But…

“Really? The, ah, target was in there?”

“You mean the fucking door? Yes. Don’t ask me why. But it’s there. The access point is, anyways. The real thing’s still in Liscor.”

“Fascinating. So this other [Alchemist]. Quelm…”

“It’s a lead.”

The [Nightstalker] and the [Enforcer] both nodded. This was worth looking into. It might be coincidence, but the sign and the damaged frontage spoke to their area of expertise. And they had been sent to run down all leads, so the [Nightstalker] led the way down another street. She did have a map; the [Enforcer] saw her checking it covertly. He politely coughed.

“You wouldn’t happen to know what this Quelm business is? Just in the interest of sharing information.”

The woman looked sour, but in the end she nodded.

“Low-level racketeering. We’re not sure who’s leading them on the street front, but it’s a new gang. Brand new. Their backer’s Quelm. [Alchemist]. Level 20 to Level 25. Moderately successful. With his help, they’ve created a monopoly on this new item. Matches.”

“Matches?”

“Some new alchemist invention.”

“Wants to sell it all from his store, does he? Understandable. So this Quelm’s got muscle to keep the other [Alchemists] in line. And the gang’s being funded through…?”

“Protection payments.”

The [Nightstalker] grinned. The Brother only grimaced. It was understandable, typical even, but the Brotherhood didn’t deal in that area. The Sisters of Chell, on the other hand…

“Ah. What about the City Watch? Do they know?”

The Sister shrugged, clearly impatient as she picked up the pace.

“They know. But their new Watch Captain doesn’t want to risk blood, and he’s being bribed with potions. Apparently, the last one took off to be an…[Actor]? That answer all your damn questions?”

The [Enforcer] nodded absently. It did indeed. He might not know if this Quelm was connected to the incident he was investigating, but he understood this new gang and racketeering business. A gang had worked its way into Celum’s city. Not just a gang, but a Gang, the kind of criminal element that went beyond some local [Toughs] or [Thieves]. The beginning of proper organized crime, the kind both he and the [Nightstalker] were familiar with.

This was always how it started. To the [Enforcer], the [Nightstalker], and probably the silent [Blackguard], it was as obvious as the sun what was going down. It was like…if they were [Woodcutters], they were seeing a cut along a tree’s base. They could tell you exactly how the tree would fall if things went a certain way.

On the other hand, they could spot complications, oddities like maybe a strong wind that could randomize how the tree fell. But they had seen this a hundred times; they knew the broad strokes.

New Captain of the City Watch. A potential source of gold—these matches, whatever they were. Add in some displaced villagers, a few experienced underworld folk, or just a local [Bandit] group dying off and the stragglers entering a city and you had the beginnings of a gang.

The Sister of Chell broke the silence after two more blocks of walking.

“Why all the questions? You know the score. Are you looking to move back down here? If you are, you’re not dealing with me. I’m warning you, we want this city.”

She looked back, a bit agitated. She eyed the [Enforcer] and was clearly relieved when he shook his head.

“We’re not looking to expand south at the moment. They’re yours to conversate with when you want the pleasure.”

A grin crossed the [Nightstalker]’s face. She shrugged indolently and looked around Celum’s streets with contempt.

“We’ll wait until they actually earn more than a few gold pieces. Anyways. We’re here. Look.”

She pointed. The [Enforcer] saw they’d reached another [Alchemist] shop, clearly doing better than Stitchworks. Glass windows showed a variety of products, from low-level potions to a Tripvine bag. It wasn’t good by any of the standards of the three visitors, but the small bundle of matches, put pride of place in the glass window, caught the [Enforcer]’s eye.

“Interesting. I’d not mind a look at these things. Mind if we take a look? After you.”

He held the door open for the pair. The [Nightstalker] snorted, but walked in. A beaming [Shop Assistant] greeted them; the store already had a few guests this early. The young man gestured around the shop.

“Good morning! Welcome to Quelm’s Bazaar of Alchemies! Are you here for matches?”

“As a matter of fact, sir, I’d be delighted to buy some to test them out myself. May I ask what they are and what they do?”

The [Enforcer] tipped his hat to the [Assistant], and the young man’s face lit up. He quickly trotted behind the counter and got a matchbox and match. The [Nightstalker] watched with impatience as the [Shop Assistant] made his pitch.

“It’s the newest thing. Alchemist Quelm’s latest invention—matches! They came out in the city earlier, but Mister Quelm—excuse me, Alchemist Quelm—was working on them ahead of everyone else, and his designs were stolen. These are the best in the city, the only ones sold in the city these days, in fact! No one’ll buy the inferior designs, so we have all of them!”

“I’m sure.”

The [Nightstalker] smirked. Even sardonic, her smile could turn a man’s head. The [Enforcer] was unaffected; he’d met women with her type of Skills before, but the [Shop Assistant] had clearly never run into a woman like the Sister of Chell. He hesitated, and his eyes fixed on her still beautiful face and then cleavage for a moment. She glared at him, and he turned red. The [Enforcer]’s cough brought the young man back to his senses.

“I—uh, well, these are the matches! And they’re wonderful. Ever seen what they do?”

“That’s why we’re here.”

“Well…observe! You don’t need magic or tinder or anything else! You just strike the match against this box here, or even a rough surface, and—fire!”

The [Enforcer] blinked as the match head flared into flame. The Sister of Chell recoiled, and the [Blackguard] twitched. The [Assistant] noticed none of this as he held up the match, admiring the flame.

“You see? As simple as that! It’s all alchemy, no—”

“No magic.”

The Sister spoke flatly. The [Enforcer] reached into his jacket pocket and felt at a little orb he kept there.

“No magic. Mind if I try one, sir? Or need I buy this box?”

“Oh, no! You can try one for free. And a box’ll only be six silvers! For twenty matches? Very cheap!”

“Expensive is what it is! I used to be able to pay two silver for a box of twenty-four and then four for the same amount at Stitchworks! Why’s the price gone up?”

Another shopper complained as she browsed the shelves of boxes. Some were painted different colors and varying sizes of matches were on display. The [Shop Assistant] cleared his throat self-importantly.

“It’s about quality, Miss.”

“Expensive is what it is! I like these things, but they’re not better than a flint at these prices!”

“But it’s convenient, Miss—”

The [Enforcer] listened with half an ear to the discussion. He lit the match on the box the way he’d seen the young man do it. He lifted the match and watched the flame burn. The [Enforcer] wore gloves as a habit, so he didn’t bother tossing the match as it burned down. He noted how hot the flame was and handed the box to the Sister before nodding in approval.

“This is very nice. Very posh. Beats magic for me, and I love the feeling of it. I could see some of my associates being very interested. This will be a bit of gold—if another [Alchemist] doesn’t figure it out.”

The [Nightstalker] lit one match, dropped it before it could burn her, and then another. She ignored the [Shop Assistant]’s protests and eyed the second before tossing it on the floor. The young man hurriedly stomped it out. The [Nightstalker] flicked the box back at him and nodded.

“Not going to happen in Celum. But I like it too. No magic, just a stick. Easy to start fires with secretly. Give me five.”

“And me ten I suppose.”

The delighted young [Shop Assistant] brightened as the pair bought fifteen boxes all together. The other shoppers gaped at the gold being forked over so casually; the [Enforcer] and [Nightstalker] didn’t blink. Nor did the money in the store’s till vanish after it was handed over. Neither of them were [Thieves].

After that, the trio walked outside the shop and thought. The Sister lit a match, watched it burn with a smile, and nodded.

“I can see why it’s created a gang.”

“Me too. The problem is, where might we find said gang?”

“Around back? They’re new. They’ve gotta hang around their boss. Or we wait for one of the [Alchemists] to pay up. Bet you they get money every day too. Amateurs.”

The [Nightstalker] rolled her eyes. The [Enforcer] silently agreed. And as luck would have it, they found the very group they were looking for. Not behind Quelm’s shop, but a street over. The group was, as befitted their nature, idling with intent in an alleyway.

They were clearly ready for something; both the [Enforcer] and [Nightstalker] could sense it. A group of sixteen rough men and women glanced up sharply as the trio strolled into the alleyway. They didn’t notice the [Blackguard]. The Brother tipped his hat to them cheerfully.

“Hello, sirs and madams. Might I trouble you all for a bit of time? The pair of us have a few questions as it were.”

“Who’s asking?”

One of the biggest men, a [Thug], clearly, strolled out of the group. He had muscle, but a beer belly to go along with it. And he was drunk. The [Enforcer] smelled it on the man’s breath. He resisted the urge to wrinkle his nose and politely tipped his hat.

“G’day, sir. I’m just here by serendipity. And this here’s an acquaintance of mine. One of Chell’s girls. You know Chell?”

The words were innocuous. But they were carefully phrased. In Invrisil or any other city to the north, they would have attracted any group’s attention and respect, regardless of whether they were common street trash or…in the same line of business.

Unfortunately, Celum was just that far removed. Not a light flickered in the heavyset [Thug]’s face or the rest of the group’s faces, but a shrewish [Thief] skulking around the back of the group looked up suddenly in alarm. He opened his mouth, but the [Thug] just scowled.

“Never heard of her. Piss off.”

The [Enforcer] sighed. The [Nightstalker] frowned dangerously. The [Thief] who’d recognized their signals, on the other hand, pushed forwards nervously.

“Betram, listen. Those two are—”

“Shut up, Yapper. You. Clear off. We’re busy.”

The [Thug] pointed at the [Enforcer]’s chest. He eyed the [Nightstalker] and grinned.

“You’re free to stay, though. In fact, why don’t you leave this idiot and stay with us for a while, Miss?”

“Not interested, you ugly piece of crap. We’re not here to play games. Listen to your friend or we’ll get impatient.”

The Sister of Chell glared at the [Thug]. His face went red as some of his group laughed. His hand moved faster than the [Thief] trying to pull him back and whisper to him. He reached for the [Nightstalker] with an open slap. And his hand was knocked aside by the [Enforcer]’s.

“Excuse me, sir.”

The Brother politely blocked the [Thug]’s path, moving the hand out of the way. Lucky for the man too; the [Blackguard] would have stopped it far less kindly. But the action only enraged the [Thug]. He knocked back the [Thief].

“Betram, don’t! They’re—”

“Shut up, Yapper! You want to die, you bastard?”

He shoved the [Enforcer]. The man was braced, so the blow didn’t knock him back like the [Thug] had intended, but it did make him stumble. And that made his cap slip slightly, revealing some brown hair. The man caught the hat before it slid off his head. And when he looked up, the [Thug] hesitated as he raised a fist.

The Sister of Chell and [Blackguard] saw the [Enforcer] slowly adjusting his hat. The [Nightstalker] looked at her companion and made a rapid call. She tsked, shook her head at her bodyguard, and stepped past the [Enforcer].

“I’ll handle this. Move back.”

The [Enforcer] thought about this and did so. He adjusted his clothes as the [Nightstalker] eyed the taller [Thug] up and down. By now, the crew in the alley had realized the man and woman weren’t normal. They were checking their weapons, and the [Thug] was hesitating, clearly fighting with his ego over pushing things further with the [Enforcer] while his subconscious was trying to hold him back. It was too late either way. The [Nightstalker] eyed him and then, with a flash, drew one of the blades in her hand.

A stiletto. The edge was needle-sharp, and the hand holding it moved so fast that only the [Enforcer] and the [Blackguard] saw its path. Everyone saw where it ended, though. The [Thug] stared down in horror at the blade piercing his—even the [Enforcer] winced. Then the pain came, and the man’s eyes bulged, and he opened his mouth. But the [Blackguard], who’d slipped behind him, grabbed him.

The others in the alley jumped back in horror as he seemed to materialize and slapped a gloved hand over the [Thug]’s mouth. The [Nightstalker] just grinned. She lifted up the bloody stiletto as the [Thug]’s eyes bulged. Then she pointed at the [Blackguard].

“Hold him tight.”

The [Thug] tried to move, but the black bodyguard held him tight. The [Nightstalker] stabbed him twice more in the groin. The man screamed, but the hand covering his mouth let no sound out. Blood and urine ran to the floor as a stain spread in his clothing. He dropped as his mind mercifully rendered him unconscious. The [Blackguard] let go, wrinkling his nose, and walked behind the [Nightstalker].

The rest of the low-level criminals in the alley stared in horror at the big man. They were [Thugs] and [Thieves] and even [Bandits] and [Raiders] from the countryside, used to violence. But not as casual as that. Or as brutal. The man lying on the ground would probably live, but his genitals were mutilated. The [Nightstalker] wasn’t done, though. She kicked the man between the legs, and he doubled into a ball, even unconscious. The [Enforcer] just sighed. It wasn’t how he would have done it. But it had certainly gotten everyone’s attention.

The [Nightstalker] raised the bloody stiletto and looked around. The alleyway was silent. Now everyone was staring at her, aware without words of what she was, if not who. She looked at the trembling [Thief], Yapper.

“I’m not here to play games. I’m from the north. You heard about a job that went bad right before the damn battle at Liscor? One where my people all died? Well, I’m the one sent to find out what happened and why. The Sisters of Chell want answers. And we’ll have them.”

“The Sisters of Chell?”

One of the men standing behind his friend started, finally recognizing the name. He paled as the [Nightstalker] aimed her dagger at him.

“Shut up. Anyone else says something I don’t want to hear, and they’ll lose whatever swings between their legs. Or find something else sticking out there instead.”

She pointed at one of the female [Bandits] in the back of the crowd. The woman turned as white as the men. The [Nightstalker] eyed the group in disgust and turned to the [Thief] who’d recognized her and the [Enforcer] from the start.

“Start talking. I want to know three things. One. Who’s in charge of your gang?”

“Uh—I—milady—it’s Alchemist Quelm, Miss. He’s in charge.”

Yapper froze as the [Nightstalker] advanced. He shook as the stiletto poked his throat. The woman hissed at him.

“Not your backer, you idiot! Who runs the street? Who’s your boss?”

“It was—it was—”

Yapper looked over the woman’s shoulder at the comatose man. The [Nightstalker] looked over her shoulder and laughed incredulously.

“Him? So you’re actually taking orders from an [Alchemist]? You’re a shit gang. Fine. Question two. What do you know about the heist with the door in Stitchworks?”

Yapper’s eyes widened.

“That thing? Nothing. I swear! We heard some big players were coming south. And I knew a guy who said some of the Brothers from Remendia were coming, but I didn’t hear anything about it.”

“Really. Any of you know what went down? Anyone?”

The Sister swept her blade across the alley. The men and women shook their heads rapidly.

“Fine. How big’s your gang?”

“About…forty?”

“Really? So you’re just starting. What’s your angle? Protection money and helping that shit [Alchemist] steal all the business? That’s all you layabouts do?”

“Not much longer. Mister Quelm has plans. We’re going to pay a visit to the other [Alchemists] later.”

“And do what, exactly?”

The Sister of Chell listened impatiently as Yapper stammered. She shook her head.

“Fine. But what about the door?”

“He didn’t say nothing about that, Miss. Just said to leave it be. There’s a crazy [Innkeeper] on the other side. She’s got Gold-ranks staying at her inn. Mister Quelm says it’s too much work to deal with at the moment. He just wants that Octavia gone.”

“Huh.”

The [Enforcer] frowned. That was surprisingly restrained, even for a low-level gang. But if it was being run by an [Alchemist], the man probably still thought he could control his crime. Just muscle out his competition. Sooner or later, someone would take over who was a serious leader. Maybe even Betram, if he hadn’t just lost his leadership role and manhood. But it seemed like this really was just a coincidental thing to their real investigation.

The Sister of Chell clearly agreed. She wiped her dagger on Yapper’s front as the [Thief] stood, paralyzed, and sheathed it in disgust.

“Fine. We’re done here. If I find out you lied, I’m coming back and cutting all of your balls off. We don’t need anything from you lot. Stay out of our way. ”

She turned and walked out of the alleyway. The [Blackguard] followed, and the pale-faced group stared as the [Enforcer] tipped his hat. He looked apologetically, but without any hint of sympathy, at the silent Betram lying on the ground.

“I apologize for the rudeness that was done with. Sorry about the disturbance and shame on your friends, gentlemen, ladies. Good morning to you all.”

And then he followed the Sister of Chell out of the alley. The gang stared at his back and watched as the three disappeared into the street.

“So we’re back to square one, it seems.”

The Brother strolled up to the [Nightstalker]. She glared at him and nodded, annoyed by the entire ordeal.

“Useless cowards, that lot. They’re only a starting gang. Not even big enough to scare the Watch.”

“It all starts somewhere. Give them a few months or a year and there could be a hundred. Forty’s big.”

“Probably some [Bandits] got wiped, and the stragglers came here. Who cares? They don’t know anything. What’s next?”

She’d clearly been expecting the Quelm angle to yield fruit. But the [Enforcer] was used to coincidences that turned out to be nothing like this, so he just shrugged.

“There’s the door. Odds were always that something on the other side got our teams. And it being inconveniently a Drake city, my associates didn’t get any valuable information. I was thinking of travelling to Liscor and seeing what the scene was there.”

“And waste a day of travel?”

“You could always go through the door.”

The [Enforcer] raised his brows. The Sister of Chell spat.

“I don’t plan on walking through the same door that got an entire hand of my sisters dead.”

“Not exactly high on my list of activities to do either, I’m afraid. Well, why don’t we take a small break and figure out if anyone else knows something about this door? Who comes through to Celum?”

“Fine. You’re taking lead? That’s not our specialty.”

The [Nightstalker] jerked a head at the [Blackguard]. The [Enforcer] smiled.

“Just so and so. Then, while we happily gather information on this place for our mutual associates, might I offer to buy you a breakfast, Miss? It’d be my pleasure after seeing you resolve our spot of bother while I was so rudely still. Same goes for your friend.”

The [Nightstalker] rolled her eyes.

“Why not? I want to see what happens later today. Could be this Quelm knows more than he’s letting on.”

“My thoughts exactly. Then, let’s head back down to Stitchworks. I saw an outdoor restaurant down the street. If we’ve good eyes, we can spot anything that needs spotting.”

The Sister agreed with a tight, annoyed nod. Back they went. It was admittedly tedious to have to go back and forth like this, but the [Enforcer] knew it was necessary. You didn’t rush about; the Sisters of Chell knew that too, because the only overt action their agent had taken was with the [Thugs] in the alleyway. They would never go to the City Watch, and standards were standards. You took this slowly, carefully.

Patience. Prudence. And something else that started with ‘P’. The [Enforcer] found the restaurant he’d spotted, really just a fancy bakery with some outdoor tables. He sat down, and the server or maybe apprentice baker found them in a moment.

“Hello! Are you looking for some breakfast?”

“Yes, we are, Miss. Good morning to you, and might I ask what your fine establishment serves?”

“I dunno about fine, sir.”

The young woman blushed as the [Enforcer] gave her a charming smile and a tip of the hat. She had a lucky feeling he’d be one to tip her just for bringing food out to him. And she’d be right.

“Well, if you want, we’ve got a menu. Printed. Or I can tell you our best.”

“I can read it from here. And I think some of your spinach tarts would be a treat, Miss. May I have that and some refreshments?”

The [Enforcer] read the menu inside the front of the bakery from his seat, making the young [Baker] blink. But she nodded readily and went to get the meal. All three of Celum’s visitors did appreciate the hot food when it came out, despite their varying temperaments and goals. As the Sister of Chell dug into her food, the Brother of Serendipitous Meetings struck up the young [Baker] in conversation.

“I hear that there’s a miraculous door to Liscor, Miss. Magic, or so I hear. There wouldn’t be any truth to that rumor, would there?”

The young woman brightened with the chance to gossip and nodded.

“Oh? You’re new to the city and you heard about the door, have you? It’s true! The door goes all the way to Liscor! And you can go through for not even a bronze coin! I went there myself—it goes to an inn of all places! It’s nice, and the Players of Celum used to put on shows there every night—but most of the good ones like Wesle left.”

She sighed deeply and went on.

“But the door’s always there. Usually, you just have to wait while that [Alchemist] bothers you inside the shop. Lately, though, it’s hard to go through; my brother waited all day to go, but apparently people were going from Pallass to Liscor. Isn’t that amazing? Pallass is all the way south…”

She waved a hand vaguely, clearly not understanding the distance involved. The three at the table did understand the distance, though, and the [Nightstalker] sat up in her chair. The [Enforcer], whose back was already straight, felt a skip in his chest. That was a powerful door. And one his organization would love to get their hands on. But that wasn’t why he was here.

The [Enforcer] was indeed on a mission. He’d come all this way south, at considerable distance and inconvenience, for one reason. His investigation in Celum was, as he’d told the Sister of Chell, a fact-finding mission. Just like hers. A few months back, a few of their Brothers in the region had been contracted for a very expensive, very sudden mission.

That wasn’t unusual in this line of work, but the buyers had paid for top quality. And so the best in the area had been sent. And the best in the area had died. That too happened in this line of work, but it was never something to be brushed off lightly. When people in the [Enforcer]’s group died, their deaths were investigated. And if need be, avenged.

The duo sitting across from him were clearly here for the same reason, to find out what had happened. If they weren’t actually responsible for the deaths themselves. The [Enforcer] ruled nothing out, and neither did the Brotherhood, which was why he was here.

The Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings wanted to know what happened to their group just as badly as the Sisters of Chell, but they had a second motive that the other underworld groups had no notion of. A highly, highly lucrative offer from the Tallman of Baleros himself. And intriguing—the [Enforcer] wasn’t high enough to know all the details, but he kept his ear to doors in a figurative sense.

Intriguing indeed, and the money was considerable. You didn’t turn that down lightly. But you didn’t rush into deals like that either. Hence why his job was doubly important. So the [Enforcer] was content to wait to see what became of the poor [Alchemist] sitting in the store who owned the door. If it turned out she was only a bystander in this whole affair, he’d regretfully continue on his way to Liscor to find the truth. He had no intention of using that door until he was very sure of it, even if everyone in Celum had used it.

The [Enforcer] sat back, took a bite of his spinach tart, chewed, and swallowed. Then he smiled at the young [Baker].

“I’m amazed. This is a delicious tart. And that door’s not anything to sneeze at lightly either.”

“Oh, you’re too kind. Miss Ginla made those, but I helped with the crusts!”

The young woman blushed with pride. The [Enforcer] complimented her, ignoring the impatient look he was getting from the Sister of Chell. It was always good to be polite. Then he sat back, adjusting his hat and preparing for a long wait.

“I’d like to buy a few more from your counter if it’s all fresh. Throughout the day, like. If you’ll stay open? Ah, by the way, what’s this about Pallass, Miss?”

The young [Baker] beamed and hastened to explain. The [Nightstalker] sat lower at her table, scarfing her food and resigning herself to a long day. She glared, and the [Blackguard], sensing that this might be the start of a long day, decided it was time to eat. He ignored the tarts on the table, although he’d inspected them for poisons or other tricks like glass shards already. He unscrewed a flask from his side and raised it. The [Nightstalker] punched him in the side and lifted one of the cups of water the young woman had placed on the table.

The [Blackguard] silently poured her a drink from his flask, and she sipped it. She turned her head and her enhanced eyes to watch the shop, where she could see an [Alchemist] moving about, slowly, furtively, her eyes on the shop front. Stitchworks was still closed, but the [Nightstalker] could see a door propped up against the far wall. Her eyes narrowed, and she settled back, watching. Waiting.

And on the other side of the door? An inn sprang to life as dawn faded and the sun rose. A hundred miles away, Liscor, a city of Drakes, got about its day, and The Wandering Inn filled with guests from Liscor and farther south still. They all used the magic door in the inn. But the first person to use it had already used it before the dawn. He had left the inn, using the door to travel up into the mountains. Now he walked through the caves, playing a song. His name was Numbtongue.

And he was a Goblin.



——



Numbtongue started his day as he always had for the last few weeks. Alone. At least, when he felt like it. He walked in the caves of the High Passes, although barely at the foot of those towering peaks. Nevertheless, there were plenty of caves and passageways to explore, even in the foothills. So the Goblin walked through one dark cave now. And as he walked, he played his guitar.

Music flowed through the dark passageways, through the rocky ceilings, across moss and stone. A song plucked from the strings of the battered but functional guitar that the Hobgoblin carried. His claws strummed the guitar, playing with absent grace. And the song was simple. It halted and flowed as Numbtongue made it up on the spot. But it had components.

Melody and harmony. The fundamentals of music as Numbtongue understood them, although he had not known the words until recently. But they had meaning. Because a song needed both. Melody was the base. Harmony was different. Erin had explained the difference to Numbtongue, but she hadn’t taken music class in years, so the distinction was somewhat hard for the Hob to articulate.

But he thought he understood. You could have both in a song. And while harmony was easier, a melody could be achieved just by singing. That was all you had to do.

The reason why he was thinking of the distinction this morning was because he was trying to use two Skills at once. Numbtongue was a [Bard], and he had multiple Skills that involved music. Not many, since he had been a [Warrior] before becoming a [Bard], but the Skills he did have were powerful. At least, to him.

The first was [Peaceful Melody]. That was easy. The base of the song was that. As Numbtongue walked the cave floor, his wrapped feet avoiding the sharp stones, he sensed the shapes moving around him in the darkness. He didn’t have to look down to spot them, and they moved aside to allow his passage. Small, scuttling shapes, the denizens of this cave.

Rockmites. Dozens, possibly over a hundred of them. Not dangerous if Numbtongue didn’t agitate them, but possibly a deadly threat if he made a mistake. And they were territorial, protective against intruders even if they were largely peaceful. Numbtongue had found that out in a number of painful encounters that had made the swarm increasingly hostile towards him. But now they moved aside and gave the Hobgoblin no trouble.

Because of the music. It soothed them, calming the insects and granting Numbtongue passage. That was the base of his song. But Numbtongue was trying something more today. Something harder.

The harmony of the song he played was halting. Difficult to come up with. Numbtongue muttered to himself and decided to trying singing,

“Goblin wakes and Goblin eats. And Goblin mines and Goblin sleeps. This is a Goblin’s day. Isn’t that…neat?”

It was a poor song. When Numbtongue hesitated, the Rockmites stirred restlessly. The Goblin gave up on singing and instead strummed, creating a soothing harmony from his guitar. And when he gave up on forcing the music, when it came naturally, the melody appeared.

The Goblin’s crimson eyes saw the pitch-black cavern light up. The light that filled the cave was a gentle glow, summoned by the strumming of Numbtongue’s guitar. It wasn’t normal light either, or even a [Light] spell. It was a faint, gentle glow to match the song.

The light wasn’t one color either. The ambiance changed from note to note, blooms of brilliance softly lighting the cave. All in sequence too, all connected. As if the notes Numbtongue was playing were coming to life in shades of color. A beautiful sight, not harsh, soft and subtle against the stone walls. And the Rockmites, far from hating this unfamiliar brightness, instead seemed to dance, scuttling up and down the walls, waves of motion enjoying the light, the music.

Light and peace. Two Skills at once. Numbtongue smiled. He kept the guitar singing, trusting it to light his way and pacify the Rockmites. And it did. The Hobgoblin walked through the last section of the cave, and on his back was a pack filled with a jar of glowing magicore. A few rare gems. And his latest prize, secured from another cave system connecting to this one. Numbtongue had been mining since before dawn, and while his latest acquisition hadn’t actually come from hitting any veins but from theft, the Goblin felt good.

Rockmites scuttled after Numbtongue, but stopped when he reached the entrance of the cave. They had probably been lured by the music he was playing, but also possibly because they were attracted to the magical minerals in his pack. Especially the nugget of gold that Numbtongue had just stolen from one of their nests.

The Hobgoblin had known that Rockmites enjoyed all sorts of minerals and gravitated to magic as many monsters did, but he’d had no idea that they liked gold. But one look at the gold-plated Rockmites who’d been feasting on this nugget and what looked like a depleted vein of the stuff told the Hobgoblin that the mineral gave them some kind of benefit.

Or maybe it just tasted good. Either way, he’d raided the nest for the last bit of gold. Unfortunately, that had enraged the generally peaceful bugs, and he’d had to play the guitar to get out in one piece.

Even at the entrance of the cave, the bugs didn’t want to leave him alone. They scuttled into the light and then back into the shade, waving their little feet as they seemed to waver about going after the Hob. Experimentally, Numbtongue stopped playing as he stood warily by a wooden door. It was propped up next to the cave’s entrance, and it had a glowing mana stone embedded in the frame. The Rockmite swarm flickered as the music stopped, and they scuttled forwards in a mass. Then retreated as the rising sun struck them.

“Hah!”

The Hob laughed as he saw a group of the golden-shelled Rockmites retreating with the regular, brown ones into the cave. He waved as the bugs fled from the sunlight, deciding they couldn’t follow the Hobgoblin after all. He strummed a victorious tune.

“Goblin got gold! Goblin goes home! Goblin…this is a bad song.”

He sighed and put his guitar down. He wasn’t sure he liked singing. Erin kept encouraging him to sing, especially songs from her world, but he preferred just playing his guitar and letting her sing. He liked her voice. His he could take or leave. Usually leave. It was the guitar that made him smile.

The Hob thought about that. Then he picked up the guitar and played a short chord. Only, this time it wasn’t with the intention of peace and light. Sparks crackled down the strings of his guitar, shooting across his claws. The guitar took on a bass, echoing crackle. The Rockmites, already retreating, fled the static sound. And Numbtongue felt a potentiality gather in the air.

“[Lightning Melody].”

He whispered, and his guitar howled like one of the electric guitars that Erin had told him about. Only, his was electric. The jolts of lightning that ran from his guitar were only a herald of what he could summon. Numbtongue looked up at the clear skies and the morning.

“Lightning.”

He could call it down by playing music. Just by playing. If he played long and hard enough, he could direct a bolt of lightning down to earth where he pleased. It was a power on par with any spell. A miraculous, useful ability that would have made him beyond valuable in his tribe.

But it didn’t always work when Numbtongue wanted. For instance, though he was playing now, he didn’t feel the lightning forming in the air. He knew the air was more crackly, but only a bit. It felt…dull.

“Needs more clouds.”

The Hobgoblin sighed. That was the trick. If the air was already crackling with lightning or it was a storm, he could pull down lightning in a minute or less of playing. Otherwise, he had to play for minutes, maybe even half an hour, to call down even one measly bolt. It was inconvenient, but Numbtongue supposed it made sense. Erin had tried to explain why that was, but her explanations, her little ‘school lessons’, seldom made sense.

“Lightning is actually electricity. And electricity is a…charge of particles. Which are tiny things no one can see. And when the particles get really excited, they make electricity. It’s because tiny particles are like magnets, and electricity goes from positive to negative. Or something like that. That’s how lightning works, Numbtongue! It goes from a really charged place like clouds to the ground. I think.”

The Hobgoblin paused, shook his head, and tried to figure out what that meant again. Erin meant well, but she clearly didn’t understand the lessons she was trying to impart. Some things were very interesting, like her lessons about how diseases worked. Numbtongue had readily believed there were extremely tiny bugs that could make you sick. But he lost interest quickly when Erin didn’t know what she was talking about.

She tried. That was the thing. She made Numbtongue sit down every week with Mrsha and learn something new. Sometimes it was interesting, like facts from her world. History. Numbtongue particularly liked the stories of Humans killing each other over a few thousand years without anyone else to kill. Other times, they were just weird, like chess theory. Both Numbtongue and Mrsha slept through those, much to Erin’s indignation.

But she was…kind. And nice. It was just that today—Numbtongue sighed. He put down his guitar, and the charge in the air dissipated as he turned to the door. Glumly, Numbtongue opened it. He stared at the black rock face behind it and sighed again.

He waited for the portal to the inn to open. And waited. And waited some more. After ten minutes of waiting, Numbtongue sat down. After twenty, he stopped strumming tunes on his guitar and looked in his pack. He admired the gold nugget, a smooth lump worn away by the Rockmites’ snacking over years. It was heavy; it would make a good throwing stone if need be. Or a distraction. Numbtongue wondered if Erin would like it. If she ever remembered to open the door.

After thirty minutes, Numbtongue was about to walk down the mountain to the inn, never mind that it would take two hours. He was just getting up when the rock behind the door was replaced by a room filled with noise and people. Numbtongue jumped as two dozen conversations blasted out across the quiet rock face. He turned and saw Erin standing in the common room of her inn looking incredibly upset.

“Numbtongue! I’m so sorry! I forgot you were mining, and everyone in Pallass is using the door non-stop! Come in, quick!”

She waved at Numbtongue. The Hob got to his feet, picked up his pack and guitar, and strode through the doorway. Erin slammed the door shut and ushered him to one side. The Hob looked around at the crowd of people behind her. Half of them recoiled or frowned or reacted in some way; the rest just stared at Numbtongue. None of them ran, though. They were Drakes and Gnolls, some of which Numbtongue recognized. He looked over his shoulder at Erin as she fiddled with the dial on the door.

“Just a sec…the wood’s a bit sticky. I need to check Celum…anyone here?”

Erin threw the door open, and Octavia’s shop appeared for a moment. Erin stared around the empty shop, and Numbtongue smelled a bunch of strange, unpleasant odors. He saw a rack of colorful, glowing potions that made him long to snatch an armful and then a Stitch-girl sitting behind her counter. Octavia looked up sharply as Erin opened the door.

“Erin?”

“Hey, Octavia! Just checking for guests. Anyone?”

The [Alchemist] hesitated. Numbtongue eyed her face. She looked sleep-deprived. And less chatty than usual. She looked at Erin and the crowd in the inn and bit her lip.

“No, Erin. I…no. It’s fine.”

“Alright! Thanks! Let anyone know we’re checking in thirty minute intervals! Appreciate it!”

“I’ll—”

Whatever the [Alchemist] was about to say was cut off. Erin slammed the door, cheerfully adjusted the dial, and threw it open. Another city appeared as Numbtongue stared. Pallass and a crowd of people standing in a street suddenly appeared in the doorway. The Drakes, Gnolls, Dullahans, and Garuda standing there were all crowding forwards. But they recoiled as they saw Numbtongue.

“Hobgoblin!”

“Aw, shut up! It’s just Numbtongue! Door’s back! You lot chatter on! Remember, no one goes through or it goes dead!”

Erin shook a good-natured fist at the crowd. There was grumbling from Pallass’ side as Numbtongue stepped behind the door, out of view. Erin had moved it from the wall to a more central spot, so the people on both sides could chat and see what was going on with the inn.

“I can’t believe this. One door and it’s limited to, what, friends of the inn? That’s nepotism!”

“No, that’s favoritism. Nepotism’s for family.”

“Right. My mistake. Even so—hey! Move! Is that play still on?”

The people on Liscor’s side shuffled to one side. A few sitting closer leaned next to the door and whispered to some people standing right next to the door on Pallass’ side. A Drake nodded to a Garuda sitting on the other side.

“Sorry. Our [Innkeeper] had to let that Hobgoblin in. And check for guests from Celum. Where were we?”

The Pallassian Garuda smiled, keeping her voice low as the crowd, some of whom were now sitting on tall chairs, craned over her head, watching a play in the background. She whispered back to the Drake.

“I think we were talking about family. Do you have any relatives around here?”

“Well, I have an Aunt who lives in Lassil. Have you ever been there?”

“Lassil? No way! I was there just last—”

“Quiet in front! I’m watching the play!”

The Garuda turned her head and glared.

“Some of us are talking! You shut up!”

“Why can’t we go through? Just get a [Mage] already!”

“Shut up! I’m watching the play! And I’m on the list for tomorrow!”

“What? I have to wait three weeks—”

The crowds on both sides began arguing with each other while the aggrieved play-watcher demanded silence again and again. Numbtongue, watching from the side, was amazed neither group started jumping through the door to hit each other. Erin, watching with him, shook her head.

“Nuts, huh, Numbtongue? Everyone loves the other city suddenly. Sorry about forgetting to check on you; I’m really busy today!”

She waved around the crowded inn. Numbtongue nodded silently. He had been here yesterday and witnessed Erin introducing Liscor to Pallass and vice versa. Today, it seemed no less busy—and it was just past dawn! Erin glanced up at him and frowned.

“When did you go through the door anyways? Lyonette said she saw you off right when she woke up, but I got up an hour before dawn! How long have you been mining?”

The Hob shrugged.

“A while? I found something. Want to see?”

He shifted his pack, ready to show Erin. He had been looking forwards to her reaction, and the delighted smile on her face made him smile unconsciously. Erin looked at the pack.

“Really? More magicore? I know you have a few mana stones from…Pyrite’s stuff. But what else did you get? No, wait…sorry. I’ve got to take this.”

She grimaced. Someone was shouting her name from the door. Numbtongue lowered his pack and watched as she fought through the crowd.

“Alright, who is it? I told you, no one’s allowed through no matter how much they’re paying unless—oh! Hey, I remember you! Grimalkin! I need a door charge!”

Erin turned and bellowed across the room. Amid the roar of protests from the door crowd on both sides, a muscly Drake turned his head and grimaced. Grimalkin was sitting in the inn with Relc, doing some workouts with some barbells and other weights Erin had helped him come up with. He sighed but came over to the door as Relc took the barbells from him.

“I told you, I’m not your walking battery, Miss Erin.”

“Yeah, but—please? I helped with the weights. Maughin made a bunch, right, Maughin?”

Erin waved at a Dullahan who was sitting with a Selphid in a corner of her inn. The Dullahan jumped and looked up. He raised his head and looked around blankly.

“What? Am I needed?”

“Nah, it’s just Erin being Erin. Sit back down.”

Jelaqua laughed next to him. The Halfseekers were in the inn, having been derailed from their journey towards Invrisil for two days now. Moore got up and cautiously made his way towards the door with Grimalkin. The [Sinew Magus] was arguing with Erin as he leaned on it.

“It’s not that easy. We don’t regain all of our mana in a single night’s rest, Miss Solstice. And yes, I generate mine efficiently thanks to my muscles, and I have a larger mana supply than most, but this is taxing. I appreciate Mage Moore’s help, and the other [Mages] have pulled their weight, but you need a better system in place for this.”

“I know. But…one more person? Please? I helped you with the barbells! And I think I remember this weird bar with curves in it you could make!”

The Drake sighed. But he put his hand on the door.

“One charge then. Moore? I appreciate the help. No more than that, though, Erin. We have to send ourselves back, remember? Who’s coming through?”

“Him! Hey! No one else comes through! Kel, keep them back!”

Erin shouted into the doorway. Numbtongue watched her waving her hands as he silently came back downstairs. He’d taken his pack off, and now he had the nugget stuffed into one of his belt pouches.

He had only a few pieces of equipment, although he carried an adventurer’s compartmentalized belt. Two healing potions, a stamina potion, a Tripvine bag, a few carrying compartments…Numbtongue irritably shifted the belt to adjust for the weight of the gold nugget. He missed who came through, but Erin bounded over with a smile on her face and found the Hobgoblin.

“Sorry! Busy as usual. Say, Numbtongue, have you had breakfast?”

“No. Got any food?”

The Hobgoblin saw lots of people eating a late breakfast. He smacked his lips as Erin nodded rapidly.

“I’ve got some food—sorry, you missed breakfast! But I’ve got bits and pieces you can nobble on. Just one sec!”

“Nobble?”

The Hobgoblin stared at Erin. She entered the kitchen, bypassing the lines of her staff moving in and out, and came back with…two slices of pizza, one of her experimental crispy chicken wings, a bowl of eggs covered in ketchup, an entire carrot, and a fluffy bread roll filled with raisins. Numbtongue stared at the food, which Erin had all heaped in a bowl.

“Sorry, it’s a mess in there. Lyonette’s cooking, and Ishkr’s helping, but we really need a dedicated [Cook] at this rate! I’ll pop in there after I greet—”

“What’s nobble?”

Numbtongue selected a slice of pizza and began eating. He liked all the food Erin had given him and began chomping it all down. He was hungry enough to eat it all too. Erin shrugged.

“Nobble? Nibble and nosh. You know? Eating?”

She mimed what Numbtongue was doing. The Hob frowned, chewing with his cheeks full.

“Is it a word?”

“Well, it is now!“

Erin beamed at Numbtongue, purely unaware that the word ‘nobble’ was, in fact, taken and was the sort of thing the [Enforcer] in Celum might use in parlance with his job. Numbtongue just stared at her. Then he dug in his belt pouch.

“This is what I found. See?”

He offered the nugget to her. Erin’s eyes went wide.

“Ooh! Is that gold? Can I see?”

Numbtongue nodded, smiling. This at last was what he wanted. As he ate, he handed it to Erin. She marveled at the weight, examining the curiously smooth nugget.

“It’s so polished! Did you do that? No, wait, did you find it lying about somewhere? Is…is that really how gold’s mined? It’s heavier than I thought it’d be. And it’s not as shiny!”

She accusatorially held it up to the light. The sparkle and her repeated use of the word ‘gold’ attracted some heads. A passing Drake blinked at the sparkle and wandered over. He missed Numbtongue at first; his eyes were on the nugget Erin held.

“Where’d you get that? Are you handing out gold? Is that what the theme of today is? Ancestors, it is gold. Where’d you—dead gods!”

He spotted Numbtongue at last and recoiled in shock. The Hobgoblin paused in the middle of chowing down on the carrot. He hadn’t been doing anything, but the Drake still backed away before catching himself. He warily stared at Erin, who’d lowered the nugget with a frown.

“I, er, oh. That’s the Goblin. Uh—and that’s gold. Can I see it?”

“No. Numbtongue dug it up. Or…found it. Numbtongue, where’d you get it?”

“I found it—”

“Hey, is that gold?”

Another Drake spotted the nugget. A crowd immediately turned from the door to Pallass and stared at Erin. And at Numbtongue. She looked at him.

“Where? Oh, and no one touch! This is Numbtongue’s!”

She handed the nugget back to him. All eyes were on the sparkling bit of metal. Numbtongue opened his mouth to tell Erin and then noticed the stares. He looked around at all the faces. Half were staring at him, the other half at the nugget and at him. All had the same expressions. Wariness, caution, avarice…he dropped the half-eaten carrot in the bowl.

“Erin. Want the gold?”

“Uh…sure? I mean, maybe later. It’s, uh, a bit—”

Erin waved her hands as she looked up at him. Numbtongue nodded. The crowd sighed as he put the gold away in his belt where it sagged heavily. The Hobgoblin kept eating, but the Drakes and Gnolls didn’t exactly disperse. They just stared at him. So he crammed the rest of the food into his mouth and tapped Erin on the shoulder.

“I’m going.”

“Oh? Back to mine?”

“Where exactly? Er, I mean, this Goblin has a mine? Somewhere in the mountains?”

One of the Drakes leaned forwards interestedly. Erin glared at him, and he drew back, but his eyes flicked to the magic door. Numbtongue just sighed.

“No. Out.”

He pointed to Erin’s actual door to the inn. She nodded and followed him as he walked to the doorway. There were people coming in, making the short trek from Liscor to the inn. Like the others, they focused on him. Numbtongue stared around the busy inn. Liscor’s citizens and a few of Pallass’ filled it. Celum’s [Actors] were on stage—it was full to the brim. And it wasn’t even midmorning. He shook his head and turned to Erin.

“I’m going. Be back later.”

The young woman looked up at him. Her expression, which had been excited earlier and annoyed as she shooed back the crowd, became concerned. She grabbed Numbtongue as he went for the door.

“Hey.”

He turned back. Erin hesitated and pointed up at the stairs where a few Workers were trooping up with wood and nails.

“You…wanna have dinner tonight? The third floor’ll be fixed by then. I figure we can turn one of the rooms into a dining room for a day. Lyonette’s already talking about having private rooms. We can go up there and eat. You, me, Lyonette, and Mrsha?”

“Sure. Sounds good.”

Numbtongue nodded. Erin smiled and patted his arm. But she wavered as Numbtongue put a hand on the door.

“Numbtongue? Exactly where are you going?”

He paused, his back to her.

“…Out.”

“You mean, around the inn? Or the Floodplains? Or…you know we had a talk.”

“I know.”

Numbtongue didn’t look at Erin. He could sense her sidling to his left, watching his face.

“You’re just going out. You’re not going to go there, are you?”

“…No?”

“I know you want to. But look, I’m trying to get Zevara to agree. But until then, it is dangerous. I can’t let you get hurt. You know that, right, Numbtongue?”

“I know. I’m just going out.”

“Okay then.”

Erin was clearly unconvinced by Numbtongue’s lie. But she forced a smile onto her face.

“Dinner tonight. With the family. Alright! See you then!”

She patted Numbtongue’s arm, and he stepped out the door. He walked through the door past a pair of Gnolls, making them freeze, and out of the inn. A few stragglers coming up the hill pointed at him in shock. Numbtongue looked around and felt thoroughly miserable. Slowly, he descended the hill and walked towards Liscor.

Her inn was full. It held Gnolls and Drakes, Dullahans, Garuda, even a Selphid and half-Giant. But the one Goblin was going. He couldn’t stand it in there, and he didn’t like to think of another day with the inn full of…people.

He was glad for Erin, he really was. But he felt out of place in her inn when everyone was filling it and she was at the center of it all. Especially when half of them recoiled from the sight of him. It wasn’t just tiring, it annoyed him. He knew it was natural; his heart skipped a beat whenever he saw an adventurer he didn’t recognize. But he didn’t like it. Nor did he like being stared at all the time.

So he left. He walked down the hill from The Wandering Inn and towards the city in the distance. No one stopped him. As he neared Liscor, no one blew horns or raised the alarm. And that was…wonderful. A miracle. He could walk in the inn, even go near the city, without being hunted. Like a monster. It had been his dream since being a child.

When he was young, he used to dream of entering a city and walking around, seeing what Humans did when they weren’t hunting his kind. Greydath used to tell him stories of marvelous cities, of sights few Goblins had ever witnessed. So Numbtongue had dreamed of it.

Ironically, it had been Garen Redfang who had taken that chance; he could pass as Human while Numbtongue had been far too fat when he’d become a Hob. So Garen had been first and had learned so much more than Numbtongue ever could. Funny, when you thought of it, that they were both of the same generation, children during Velan’s war.

But Numbtongue had always felt older than Garen, if only by a few years and experience. Perhaps it was how they—Numbtongue blinked and missed a step. He slid down a hill, catching himself before pitching into the muddy sludge at the bottom. The valleys were still filled with water. Numbtongue cursed, dug his feet into the side of the hill, and climbed before he could take a bath in the mud. He stomped over the next hillock, pounding his forehead with the heel of his clawed hand.

Pyrite. It was Pyrite who had spoken to Greydath and dreamed of being in Human cities, not Numbtongue. He, Numbtongue, had grown up in a Human city in his youth. In the sewers, before the Humans had eradicated all Goblins living there.

They had both dreamed of walking a city’s streets in peace, though. Both dreamed of a day when they could see the cities that they could never approach in person. Human cities, full of wonders and lights. An enticing, deadly dream. And now it was true. Only, in reality, it was a Drake city that Numbtongue could walk near without dying. While they didn’t shoot him with arrows, their stares sometimes felt as painful.

For this privilege, Numbtongue knew, the price had been tens of thousands of Goblin lives. Over a hundred thousand. It had been his brothers and his Chieftain. A Goblin Lord and his people. All dead to win one Goblin the right to be stared at in peace. Numbtongue bowed his head as he walked, and he remembered a time when five Goblins had stayed at Erin’s inn. He liked to think he was happy, now. But he wanted to believe he had been even happier back then.

The memories. Sometimes they hurt. Pyrite’s or his. The Goldstone Chieftain’s memories didn’t hit Numbtongue as frequently as before, but they were always there, waiting to be tapped into. And sometimes Numbtongue felt so similar to Pyrite…the [Bard] shook his head. Pyrite’s memories weren’t the worst. He remembered his four friends. He thought of Headscratcher. Of Shorthilt, and he touched the steel sword at his side.

First had gone thirteen. Then six had remained. Then five. And then…was it three? Or one? Numbtongue didn’t know. But here he was alone. He remembered the fallen. Here, at Liscor, on the battlefield. Then against the Eater Goats. And then at Esthelm—his brow wrinkled in confusion for a moment.

Hold on. He remembered Headscratcher and Shorthilt vividly. And Bugear, who’d fallen fighting the Eater Goats, when they’d met Erin. And before that had fallen…

Grunter. Orangepoo…what were the other names? Rocksoup? Yes. Rocksoup, Leftstep, Bitefly, Patchhelm, Justrust.

Numbtongue breathed out, reassured. But for a moment, a terrible moment, he’d forgotten the nicknames of his comrades. If he’d forgotten—what would happen? How could he forget? Numbtongue bit his lip, remembering the names, hitting himself with them.

“Patchhelm. Justrust. Bugear. Grunter. Rocksoup…”

Each one hurt. Memory hurt. Because it hurt, because he couldn’t forget, because he was alone, Numbtongue walked. He walked across the muddy floodplains past valleys of sludge, past green grass and flowers blooming. Away from the inn. Towards the walls looming ever higher.

Towards Liscor. Towards the gates. And then his walk turned into a jog. Then a run.



——



The gates of Liscor stood open. The City Watch on duty were active, guarding all four cardinal entrances to the city. There was less traffic, at least from foreign travellers, at this time of year, but the [Guards] checked everyone exiting and entering with more zeal and attention than Celum’s sleepy City Watch.

With more efficiency too; outside of caravans led in by [Merchants] or travellers whose belongings amounted to more than a single pack or who had a bag of holding, the [Guardsmen] let through everyone with barely more than a cursory question or two in the case of foreigners.

Faces were checked against descriptions of criminals by the [Guards] manning the gates without the need for a scrum, and those with Skills singled out individuals to be questioned. It allowed for smooth travel, and while it kept the [Guards] on the northern gates hopping, the other three gates were quieter. Usually.

The southern and eastern gates usually saw traffic from a few villages or from the south, but with the Bloodfields active, only the locals would come through, which made it a cushy job. The western gate was even more infamous; the road going north led to the northern gate, which meant that very few people at all ever used the western gate.

Normally, it was a nice place to be, but recent events had made it the least-popular spot for [Guards] to be posted, even more so than north gate duty. Which was why Tkrn, Gnoll [Guardsman] and one of the four [Guards] posted on the ground, resented being put here for the fourth day in a row. He had to check all of the people going to The Wandering Inn and back to make sure they were locals, and worse, he couldn’t relax on the job with regular inspections and tests of the security at the gates.

Speaking of which…the Gnoll looked up as two of his fellow Gnolls on duty waved through more people heading to the inn. He sniffed the air, frowned, and then swore as he saw a green shape charging towards the gates.

“Aw! It’s him again!”

He bellowed at his fellow [Guardsmen]. They looked up, and the Drake [Guardsman] with them spotted the distant figure at the same time Tkrn did. He must have taken a different route because he was closing on the gates fast this time. The Drake bellowed up at the battlements.

“Hey! Close the gates! Close the—”

The huge, metal doors of Liscor, pure metal to contain water during the spring season, slammed downwards as Tkrn blocked the path of two alarmed Drake ladies. On the walls, he heard shouts—not exactly of alarm—and then a voice as one of the Drakes shouted down at the figure who’d stopped a couple dozen feet away from Liscor’s gates.

“Hey! You! We told you, you can’t come in!”

Tkrn listened to the Drake shouting angrily, a peeved note in his voice. The Gnoll growled and shook his head as he turned to the female Gnoll [Guardswoman] explaining to the frightened old Drakes what was going on.

“This is the third day in a row he’s done this. Doesn’t he get tired?”

She growled at him, vexed.

“Maybe it’s fun for him. Here. Escort these two to the Southern Gate, will you? And warn them the Goblin’s here again. He might try going to the other gates like last time.”

“Aw. Bersa—”

“I did it last time. Your turn.”

Tkrn sighed, but he gestured to the two elderly Drakes. One of them quavered as she stared wide-eyed at the gates and craned her neck at the shouting from above.

“What is it? An attack? Are we fighting Shield Spiders this time? Moths?”

“No, ma’am. It’s just a Goblin. The Goblin.”

“Oh. That Goblin?”

Tkrn sighed as he led the two away. Outside, Numbtongue stared up at the walls of Liscor. The gates were closed; they’d shut them faster this time. He hadn’t been able to even get close. A Drake poked his head over the battlements and shouted down at him.

“You can’t come in. Understand?”

“Why?”

Numbtongue folded his arms. He knew the answer, and the Drake sighed.

“We told you yesterday. And the day before that! No Goblins are allowed in Liscor. The Council voted on it! You’re a public threat.”

“I won’t hurt anyone. You can stab me if I try.”

“That’s not how it works. We can’t let in a security risk. And we have orders.”

“I’m not a threat.”

Numbtongue repeated himself slowly. He could see the Drake, a male with a helmet, looking exasperatedly to one side. Some other members of the City Watch were on the ramparts above the gates. The Drake nodded tiredly at Numbtongue.

“Sure, I believe you. But we’re [Guardsmen].”

“[Guardswoman] over here.”

“I’m a [Watchman].”

The Drake sighed.

“Right. All that. And we have orders. You can’t come in. It’s not our decision—it’s the law. Got it? Will you please go away? You know we’re not opening the gates. Please don’t make us close the others.”

He looked helplessly at Numbtongue. The Goblin reached into his belt pouch and pulled out a folded bit of parchment. He unfurled it and waved it at the Drake.

“Read this.”

The Drake hesitated.

“I can’t see it from here.”

“Come down and read it. It says I can come in.”

“I know what it says. You showed it to me yesterday. The answer’s still no.”

Numbtongue ground his teeth. He stared up at the tiny head dozens of feet above him. He pointed furiously at the parchment, as if the Drake could read one of the names signed on it.

“Your Watch Captain. She signed this. It gives me…permission. To enter this place. Understand? It says I am an adventurer.”

“I know. But I can’t read it.”

“So open the gates. Your Watch Captain—”

“I’m sorry, but Watch Captain Zevara gave the orders. You can’t enter.”

The Drake tiredly cut Numbtongue off. The [Bard] ground his teeth. He looked around.

“I’ll get Erin Solstice. She’ll make you open the gates.”

The [Guardsman] hesitated. He glanced towards the inn and shook his head, a touch wary.

“…She can’t make us open the gates. And she agrees with the Watch Captain. The magic door’s off-limits too. And if you do enter, we’re allowed to arrest you. So don’t try.”

Numbtongue knew that. The [Guardsman] clearly knew that was the case as well, which was why Numbtongue hadn’t tried the door. He’d had…conversations with Erin about this. He folded his arms.

“I want to go in.”

“Sorry, Mister, uh…Hobgoblin.”

“Numbtongue.”

“Right. Sorry. But you’ll be in danger if you enter the city.”

“I don’t care.”

The Drake sighed. He glanced at someone on the battlements and then looked down and shook his head.

“Well, believe it or not, I do. It’s my job if you get in, and that Human [Innkeeper] will probably gut me. If Captain Zevara doesn’t turn my face to ash first. You’re not getting in. And you can try the other gates, but they’ll just close too. And if you keep standing out here…”

“You’ll shoot me?”

“No. But we are authorized to call Erin Solstice.”

Numbtongue glared. The [Guard] gave him a tired look. The Hobgoblin paused. He looked back at the inn and clenched his fists.

“Goblins died for this city.”

The pause that this statement provoked was longest yet. The [Guard] on the walls hesitated. But at last, he shook his head.

“Right. I’m sorry.”

Numbtongue stared up at the Drake. He stared at the closed gates. He heard the whispering from above and looked up bitterly.

“For what?”

“Excuse me?”

The Drake on the walls frowned. Numbtongue gestured up at the city.

“We all died. But that doesn’t bother you. It’s a good thing. Less Goblins. Too bad one survived.”

He turned and stomped back the way he’d come. Numbtongue heard no reply from above, but after about fifty paces, he heard the gates slowly begin to rise. The Hobgoblin was tempted for a moment to run back and run for the entrance, but he knew they’d close the gates before he even got there. Staying in front of the gates wouldn’t work either. They’d get Erin. And she wouldn’t help. At least in this.

The Goblin walked back towards the inn, head bowed, feet padding through the dirt and growing grass. He was banned. From Liscor. After his first passage into the city, he’d tried going back again, but the City Watch had forced him back through the door after bare minutes. And, to Numbtongue’s shock and hurt, Erin had agreed with Watch Captain Zevara’s reasoning.

Numbtongue was in danger in the city. More than one member of Liscor had vowed to kill the Goblin if he entered again, people who’d lost relatives or loved ones during the Second Antinium War or to Goblins in general. More than that, though, it was the fact that Numbtongue’s arrival brought the city to a standstill, caused arguments, even fights.

Zevara had refused to let him back in, and Erin had backed her, if only because the City Watch had orders to halt Numbtongue entering their city, via door or by the gates, in any way short of killing him. If he went through the magic door again, Zevara had warned Erin, it would be removed from the city.

Numbtongue would have taken that risk if he didn’t know that it would inconvenience Erin. And he would have entered the city, danger or not. Even if he was attacked. It was his right. It was what Headscratcher, Shorthilt, Grunter, Justrust, Rocksoup, Butterfly, Orangepoo, Patchhelm, Lefstep, and Bugear had died for. They had died for Liscor. He had to enter it.

It was like a compulsion. No—a sickness. Numbtongue felt it. Ever since Erin had told him he was…family, his life had been overturned. When he was in the inn with her, having breakfast, he was deliriously happy. When he realized his four friends—no, twelve friends would never share that moment, he was crushed more than any blow could ever do to him. And when he stared at Liscor in the distance and knew he couldn’t enter it, even though he had a piece of paper signed that said he was a person—that he needed the paper at all—

Up and down. Happy and sad. It was the cycle to Numbtongue’s day. He mined, practiced with his sword, upheld Redfang tradition and tried to combine Pyrite’s memories with his, and grew stronger. He enjoyed being around Erin, Lyonette, Mrsha. Even Apista. He learned from her, ate, and lived every Goblin’s…it was beyond a dream. But he couldn’t be part of the rest, of anything else. So he went off by himself and remembered. When it got to be too much, he came here. To a city he wasn’t allowed to enter.

That was how it went. What could Numbtongue do besides all of that? He couldn’t wander far from Liscor. Adventurers, travellers, anyone who wasn’t immediately part of Liscor or in sight of the inn might kill him. The mountains were equally dangerous; Numbtongue was wary of going higher than the caves he’d entered, and Pyrite’s memories told him to take it slow.

The inn was…nice. But it was still too small these days. Numbtongue was restless there. Lyonette, Mrsha, Erin, they all had things to do. They couldn’t be with Numbtongue, who had every day free, all the time. So that often left him…

Alone. But that was only part of the time. Then he was with Erin with so much love he felt like his heart was bursting. And then to loneliness again. Staring at a city that wouldn’t even let him through the gates. If he could only be in there or—or if Shorthilt were here. Rabbiteater, Badarrow. Numbtongue.

“They’re alive. They weren’t there. They are alive. Somewhere.”

Numbtongue clutched at his head as he stopped. He looked back at the city. At Liscor. It was his dream. It was Pyrite’s dream. The city taunted him. He had walked its streets once. But once was never enough. Numbtongue stared at Liscor and then at the inn. For the first time, it felt like the inn was a cage. One made of kindness and good intentions. But a cage nonetheless.

Happy and sad. Together and alone. Numbtongue was sick of it. He wanted to enter Liscor even if it meant being hurt, even if it meant dying. He wanted people to see him and not stare when they visited the inn. He wanted to meet the people who tried to avoid him, who pretended he didn’t exist. He wanted to be there. Or he wanted to leave and give up on that dream. The worst thing was being caught in the middle of it. Of Erin giving him everything he wanted and Liscor holding it out of reach. Again and again.

It felt like a…pattern. A cycle. Numbtongue wished it would stop. Because otherwise, soon, either the cycle would break or he would. Slowly, he walked back to the inn. This was his life now.

He…hated it.



——



A lonely Goblin walked across the Floodplains back towards the inn he called home. And he realized he was miserable. In Celum, a trio of Humans who were accustomed to a different world than most knew finished off a quiche and waited for something to happen. An [Alchemist] sat in her shop and counted her coins. Pure misery awaited all and each in their own way. The quiche was off.

Yet it was all backdrop. These were the lives of the inconsequential. The small. They did not move the world, even in small ways. They were in the wrong place, the wrong time. But in The Wandering Inn, part of the world shook and moved and changed. In the inn and on the streets of Pallass, crowds were gathered as the morning progressed.

They were back. In fact, the inn was even more crowded than yesterday. Erin had opened Pallass and Liscor to each other. Now, the two cities couldn’t get enough of each other. Already, the ripples Erin had splashed were turning into waves.

Rufelt and Lasica were standing in the inn with a trio of Gnoll [Senators] from the Assembly of Crafts. Even Errif Jealwind, a member of the Protectorate group. But he was a Gnoll, and he looked very uncomfortable in the group consisting of the Gnolls from Liscor, the Pallassian Gnolls, and Lasica. He might have been a [Senator], but in the Gnoll hierarchy…

Across the inn, Jelaqua was practically glued to a certain Dullahan. And the implications of that had every Dullahan who’d seen them today spinning their heads on their shoulders. Moore and Seborn, stranded in the inn with their Captain suddenly on vacation, were a mix of happy and irritated. Mostly irritated after watching the two hold hands or talk to each other while ignoring everyone else.

The Players of Celum were performing their second play of the day. Temile, the [Stage Manager], was giving the new cast and crew the workout of their lives, and the new [Actor] Drakes and Gnolls and Humans were performing until their throats needed healing potions. But no one complained; this was their moment, and they all felt it. Eight of Pallass’ citizens were already on the roster to come through this week and learn from the cast up close, rather than having to watch through the crowded door. And what might that lead to?

Some things were predictable, like Grimalkin and Relc happily devising workouts with Erin’s new weights. Wing Commander Embria had joined them this morning, and Erin was tickled to see that she and Grimalkin were getting along like a house on fire. Possibly because Embria seemed to hold Grimalkin in some esteem, or because she was as enamored by the weights as they pertained to her soldiers as he was. The [Innkeeper] was about to circulate past them as she helped load some freshly baked pizzas onto plates with Drassi.

“Say what you will about pizza and how bad it is for you, but it’s fast food!”

Erin nodded to the crowd percolating the inn. Drassi only smiled. She was having a great time listening to the debates around the elections.

“It’s easy to serve! I’ll get the plates out, Erin. You have someone looking for you!”

She pointed. Erin sighed. Someone was always looking for her.

“Do I care? Who is it this time—”

She broke off. The person waving at her and making his careful way across the floor was someone on her list of people to care about. Erin beamed as a tall, older Gnoll approached.

“Xif! Hey! Thanks for coming!”

The Gnoll [Alchemist] paused in front of Erin and bowed slightly to her. He smiled around at her and then vaguely waved; Krshia and her group had spotted him and were coming over.

“A pleasure, Miss Erin. This is a sight!”

“Isn’t it? Sorry I didn’t get to talk to you right away!”

“No, no. I’m grateful enough that you let me through that door. I didn’t realize it was a matter of privilege—ah, Lasica. Rufelt. I came to see what all the fuss was about.”

The [Bartender] and [Chef] couple came over, smiling widely. Erin stepped back as the two introduced Krshia and the Liscorian Gnolls to Xif. She was tickled to see the Gnolls begin to sniff at Xif and recoil slightly. He nodded apologetically.

“I’m the proprietor of Cunning Crafts. I apologize about the smell. I can’t seem to shake it; it’s a byproduct of being an [Alchemist] and having fur. I’ve thought about shaving, but that’s no pretty sight. City Gnoll, Xif. [Alchemist]. A pleasure to meet you all.”

He extended a paw to shake like a Drake would, instead of sniffing. Looking very surprised, Krshia put a smile on her face and shook Xif’s paw.

“Ah. A pleasure. I was told I might make your acquaintance, Honored Xif.”

“Just Xif, please. I must confess, I’m not one for politics. But…I heard there was a great deal of interesting things to see here, and I had met Miss Solstice. So I’m delighted to come. Truly.”

Xif’s eyes flickered to the three [Senators], who were looking around the inn with interest and wariness. Then he smiled at Erin, who entered the almost all-Gnoll conversation as naturally as could be.

“Xif’s really cool, Krshia. He’s the best [Alchemist] in Pallass, right?”

She turned to Lasica, and the Drake nodded. Xif, on the other hand, frowned. He scratched his head, embarrassed.

“I’d never say that. Second-best? I’ll claim that, thank you. But best? No, no. I can’t say that at all. Granted, I might be the most diverse [Alchemist] for recipes, but in terms of specialization, there’s someone far, far better than I in the city.”

“Adventurers don’t count, Xif. And you sell your potions unlike how Saliss auctions them. If anyone deserves a voice to represent Pallass’ [Alchemists]—and Gnolls—it’s you. Come and chat with us. We’re discussing the elections.”

Lasica nodded firmly, and Rufelt grinned, motioning Xif over to the part of the bar where they’d been talking.

“I suppose so.”

Xif sighed, clearly reluctant. He looked at Erin, and she came to his rescue.

“Maybe in a bit, Lasica. But what if I showed Xif around for a moment or two? There’s a lot of cool things! Like the play!”

“If you have to. But bring him back soon, alright?”

Lasica frowned, clearly impatient. The party moved away, and Xif nodded gratefully at Erin.

“I appreciate that. I’m not one for inter-Gnoll politics. I really did just want to see what all this was about.”

“It’s totally cool. You can just listen, and I’ll pull you out if you want to. But first let me show you all the cool things! We have pizza, ice cream—I think we’re making a batch—the play, and you have to meet Mrsha!”

“Ah. The white Gnoll. Rufelt did tell me about that. I would like to meet her. I feel as though we may have done the Doombring—the white-furred a great disservice. Again, I’m not one of the Plains Gnolls, but I would like to meet her very much.”

Erin frowned as she peered around for Mrsha.

“That’s what Elirr said. She’s not cursed, you know. It’s just…white fur. She’s been nothing but good to the inn. Nothing bad—well—it wasn’t her fault.”

“So you say, Miss Erin. So you say. But tradition runs deep. I’d like to meet her, if only to assuage my own—what is that?”

Xif grabbed Erin suddenly. An anomaly had appeared out of the crowd of milling species. A single figure surrounded by a circle of space and silence. Erin spotted Numbtongue at the same time the Goblin spotted her. He seemed upset. Xif, on the other hand, was terrified.

He recoiled from Numbtongue, his paws instinctively going to a potion hanging from his wide belt. Erin grabbed his arm just in case, but the Gnoll caught himself.

“The—I heard there was one. But a Goblin?”

He stared at Numbtongue. The Hob’s crimson eyes narrowed. And his upset stare grew even more pronounced. He turned abruptly. Erin, distressed, looked at Numbtongue. He hadn’t seemed so unhappy when he’d left twenty minutes ago. Now—

“Numbtongue! What’s wrong? Did you go for a walk?”

“Nothing’s wrong. I’m going back outside. To practice with my sword.”

The Hobgoblin turned. Erin reached for him, but he was already striding back towards the door. She shouted at him.

“Aw, Numbtongue, hey! What if—”

Too many people. Or the Hobgoblin just didn’t want to listen. He pushed out the door, and Erin let her hand fall.

“Damn. What’s wrong with…”

She had an inkling, but before she could go after Numbtongue, there was Xif to reassure. The Gnoll was pale under his stained fur, and Erin found him a seat. The [Alchemist] gratefully accepted a cup of water that she found for him.

“I apologize. I heard from Lasica—but I didn’t realize he just…I apologize.”

“You can say it to him when he comes back, okay? And don’t freak out when you turn around or I’ll be actually mad this time.”

Erin stared at Xif and then someone behind him. The [Alchemist] froze and slowly turned his head. He didn’t quite squeak when he saw Pawn and the pair of Workers behind him, but he did twitch a bit.

“Erin. I am sorry to interrupt, but I just arrived. I see construction is already underway.”

“Hi, Pawn. Good morning! Yeah, Belgrade’s already at work. They’re nearly done with the third floor—Lyonette wants them to do more work on the foundations or something. She wants to expand the inn!”

Erin smiled weakly. Only now did she feel like she was too busy. She had to go after Numbtongue! But Pawn was looking around for Lyonette, and Erin had to flag down the [Princess]. And explain to Xif who Pawn was. Because that was important. First impressions were important. So was Numbtongue.

“This is Pawn, Xif. He’s a Worker, but he’s really nice. Really.”

“A…a pleasure.”

The [Alchemist] shook Pawn’s hand, which was good for most first impressions. Lyonette paused, tying back her sweat-soaked hair, and blinked as Pawn appeared. She had to meet Xif too. Then Erin had to remember the Worker standing next to Pawn.

“Archer…B23?”

“B19.”

Pawn quietly corrected Erin. She slapped her forehead.

“Duh. Of course. I, uh, well, I’m just scatterbrained. Hello, Archer B19!”

The Worker bowed to Erin.

“This one—I—I mean, I—am very gratified to meet you. Miss Erin. I have wished to convey my thanks. You gave me a bowl of soup. And you taught me how to play chess once. Before I became Individual. I have never forgotten it.”

You couldn’t ignore something like that. Erin paused and reached out to hug Archer B19. Xif looked on, amazed. And Pawn? He edged around to Lyonette and timidly but insistently stood by her side. She smiled at him.

“Good morning, Pawn. Are you supervising the construction?”

He hesitated.

“That is Belgrade’s job. I am here to assist. And let the Workers and Soldiers relax. But perhaps it would be wise to supervise the construction? We are only restoring the third floor, but there is a good vantage of our groundwork for your future plans. Perhaps we should take a look? Together?”

He looked at Erin. So did Lyonette. Erin looked up and didn’t think twice. She nodded.

“Go for it. We can hold down the fort, Lyonette. Take a break.”

“You’re sure?”

“Yup. Go for it! I’ll—handle anything that comes up.”

It was dangerous to say, but the way Pawn brightened was worth it. Lyonette smiled and reached out. She held his hand, and they walked upstairs to ‘supervise’ the ‘construction’. Which probably meant exactly that, but with hand holding. Archer B19 trundled after them after saying goodbye to Erin. The [Innkeeper] sighed, then turned to Xif, who was dumbstruck.

“Crazy kids, huh? Wanna nobble on something?”

Xif stared at Erin blankly.

“Nobble?”

She laughed and looked around for some food. She had to be a good host to the Gnoll and keep him from the politics until he wanted to talk to them—and then only for a bit. And she had to make sure the staff had food and could do their jobs while Lyonette was on break. And where was Mrsha?

So much to do. And yet, Numbtongue’s expression remained in Erin’s mind. She had to talk to him. But—could he wait? Just for an hour? Or two? Or four? Then she could listen to whatever was on his mind. She would. But she was so busy right now. Erin chewed her lip and then forgot about Numbtongue when she saw Mrsha trying to peek inside Maughin’s neck cavity. By the time she remembered the Hobgoblin and went to look for him, it was already too late.



——



This was what happened. Outside the inn, another force was moving across the Floodplains. The Antinium. Not the construction team working on Erin’s inn, but a second force. A larger one.

Painted Soldiers. They stormed across the Floodplains, invading Shield Spider nests, wiping them out with brutal efficiency. And their actions went completely unnoticed by the crowd in Erin’s inn. By all of Liscor, actually.

It was ironic. Not three days ago, the Painted Soldiers had been the talk of the town. People had been gathered on the walls to watch them. And yesterday and today they’d been doing their jobs, just like normal. It wasn’t as if spider-killing season ended just after a single day, after all. But apparently, no one but the Painted Soldiers cared anymore. The City Watch was leaving the duty to them, and 4th Company was busy raising support for Lism in the city or strategically lifting with Grimalkin.

No one cared about the Painted Soldiers anymore when all eyes had been on them yesterday. But that was okay. They cared about themselves. And they had a job to do.

Kill the spiders. They ran, a wall of black carapace mixed with paint, and a wall fell into the nests, pounding the eggs and spiders flat, moving over the hills and avoiding the valleys filled with muck. The Painted Soldiers were in tip-top form, but they pushed beyond even their regular limits.

Because of him. Yellow Splatters, the giant, their [Sergeant]. He had returned. He was leading them. He had a voice. Like their duty, the excitement and reaction his presence provoked among the Painted Soldiers didn’t fade after a single day either. So they ran, arms and legs pumping, racing to do their job. They were…happy.

One particular wall of Painted Soldiers was running up a hill about a mile away from The Wandering Inn. They had disposed of an especially large nest of Shield Spiders. They were not led by Yellow Splatters; he was actually six miles away. But he was on the same field. They had heard him give the order. That was enough. Now the five Painted Soldiers ran forwards, hunting for another nest.

The Soldier in the lead rushed up the hill and began to cross the top. The mud splashed around his feet as he ran, splattering across the blue-white paint delicately patterning his body. Falling Snow, he was named. As he ran, he spotted a deep valley ahead of him. The thick mud, a remnant of the rains, still covered the bottom quite deeply. That was fine, and it meant no Shield Spiders were making their nests in all that. Falling Snow turned to find another hill. And the Soldier behind him, Zebras, bumped into him.

It was a simple mistake. They were too excited. All five were going too fast. The Soldier tripped. He lost his footing. He struggled to regain it, but the hill was steep, the mud was slippery. As Zebras grabbed for him with three of his striped arms, Falling Snow overbalanced. And he fell into the mud.

It covered him at once. Thick, clinging, heavy mud. More solid than liquid, but deep enough, watery enough to ensnare the Painted Soldier like a…bug. In the mud. Falling Snow struggled, arms and legs grasping at something, anything, as Zebras and the three other Painted Soldiers skidded to a stop on the hill. But he couldn’t move. The mud dragged him down.

Suddenly, the excitement was gone from the air. Zebras stared down at the mud pit. At the flailing Soldier. He made to step forwards and slipped. The other three Soldiers dragged him back. The valley’s slopes were steep. The footing was treacherous. One wrong move and Zebras would tumble into the pit.

And that deep—Falling Snow was struggling. He’d managed to right himself, but he was sinking deeper. He was too far away from the pit’s edges to pull himself up. The mud was closing over his head. His mandibles snapped. They covered with mud. He couldn’t breathe.

The four Painted Soldiers stood helplessly on the edge. They thought. They looked at the ground. Zebras reached for the others, and they tried to make a chain. Two of the Soldiers went down, and the two tried to hold them. The mud footing slipped, and all four nearly cascaded down. They were too heavy. It would never work. Zebras began digging at the ground, but there was no time. They couldn’t excavate Falling Snow in the time. It would take to changing the geography of the entire valley.

By now, the distress of the five Painted Antinium was being broadcast across every level of communication they possessed. Other Painted Soldiers noticed the still group of four on the hill. They turned, and like a ripple, all the attention of the Painted Soldiers fixed on the spot. On the scene.

Six miles away, Yellow Splatters looked up from killing a Shield Spider. He saw the four, saw the other Painted Soldiers converging on the spot at a dead run. He ran too. But too late.

Too slow.

In the valley of mud, Falling Snow was drowning. Mud was closing around his head, and his four arms and legs were caught. The Soldier flailed, but he understood nothing of swimming. And he was too heavy. The mud was too deep and too thick. He…couldn’t…

His flailing was growing slower. Zebras and the Soldiers on the hill were digging. But it was no use. Slowly, one by one, the Painted Soldiers stopped. They looked down at their comrade. And Falling Snow felt his consciousness dwindling. His struggling grew weak. Sporadic. He stopped moving at last.

“No!”

The voice that shouted was five miles distant. Yellow Splatters was running, racing. But he was too slow. Too far. The Painted Soldiers on the hill looked down. And the Soldier in the mud looked up as the mud covered his eyes. He gazed at the blue sky. At his fellow Soldiers, watching him. He knew he would die. Falling Snow looked up and waited for heaven.

And a green angel dove from above. Numbtongue hit the mud, and it dragged him down. But the Hobgoblin reached. And he found the still Soldier in the darkness.

The Soldier was heavy. Too heavy. Numbtongue heaved, but Falling Snow was part of the mud trap. And Numbtongue felt himself sinking. Above him, the Painted Soldiers milled. The Hobgoblin gritted his teeth. He reached for his belt and pulled something loose. Numbtongue fumbled with the drawstrings and then pulled.

An explosion of vines engulfed him as the Tripvine Bag in his hands exploded. The impact, confined, blasted the vines into Numbtongue, making him inhale the mud. The vines twined around him and Falling Snow, shooting upwards. Growing, expanding. Reaching the Painted Soldiers around the pit. The Antinium stared at the vines. Then they grabbed them and heaved.

Two dozen Soldiers grabbed the muddy tangle of vines. Three dozen. They backed up and pulled. The vines had completely entangled the pit and the Hobgoblin and Soldier in it. The mud clung to the tangle, weighing it down. It had to be hundreds, no, thousands of pounds of weight. The Soldiers grabbed the vines and heaved. And the muddy tangle began to tear itself free of the pit.

Vines exploded with the weight, and Soldiers stumbled back before surging forwards to grab at more vines. One had four vines in each arm, and more Soldiers rushed forwards by the second, grabbing at vines, pulling, pulling—

The mud surged upwards, caught in the vines. It began to cascade over the edges of the hill. Then the huge tangle of vines. Mud slopped down as the Soldiers yanked the tangle up onto the hill. Then they tore at the sides, ripping mud and magical vines free. The Tripvines fell to the ground, and an arm emerged. Green. The Soldiers excavated it.

Numbtongue’s head came out of the tangle. The Hobgoblin vomited mud. Then he dragged at another figure. An Antinium, mud dripping from his body. The Soldiers grabbed at the mud, sloughing it off. Frantically, they uncovered Falling Snow’s mandibles, found his mouth blocked with mud. Numbtongue pushed his way forwards with a flask of water.

The mud washed away as Numbtongue scraped at the opening. The Soldier’s mandibles and inner mouth cleared of debris. He lay on the ground, his body still. The Painted Soldiers stood around him, and Numbtongue sat back, waiting. Listening. The Soldier’s chest was still. Then the silent audience heard it.

A faint whistling sound. Breath, intaken. Falling Snow inhaled. And then he sat up. He looked around, and his muddy body jerked. The Painted Soldiers surrounded him, wiping at his mud-covered eyes, antennae. Numbtongue lay down on the ground and breathed.

He was alive. Alive. If anyone had looked, if anyone had cared, they would have seen every Painted Soldier on the Floodplains converging on the spot. Gathering around Falling Snow, who was still just breathing, surrounded by the other Soldiers.

As the furthest-flung Soldiers arrived, they began digging at the valley, removing the deadly mud trap, giving the mud a place to flow out. Others joined the huddle, a quiet mass. But not one without emotion. Numbtongue saw it. He felt it, lying on his back with mud in his ears and hair. And he was relieved. He had made it in time.

That was all he thought for a while. Then a shadow blocked the light. Numbtongue looked up and saw a strange Antinium in the air above him. He was taller than the other Soldiers. Bigger. His body had a…familiar pattern, though. And when he looked down at Numbtongue, he spoke.

“Thank you.”

“…Uh?”

The Hobgoblin was so surprised he only stared for a second. The Soldier’s mandibles moved again. And it was words, distinctly words, that came out of his mouth.

“Thank you. Falling Snow will live. You saved him.”

Slowly, the Hobgoblin sat up. He gazed up at the strange Painted Soldier who was speaking to him. He was so familiar. But the voice? Numbtongue couldn’t place it. So he inspected the markings on the Soldier’s body. That was easy. Numbtongue had his own war paint. He understood the way the Painted Soldiers marked themselves. Each one was different. But this Soldier had a pattern Numbtongue had seen before. But that couldn’t be. He was—

The Hobgoblin blinked at Yellow Splatters. The [Sergeant] tilted his head as he regarded the Goblin. And both of them just continued staring.

“You’re alive.”

“You’re alive.”

Yellow Splatters spoke as slowly as Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin saw that this was Yellow Splatters. The body was different, but the way he held himself, the markings—they were familiar. And yet—

“I did not know any Goblins survived the battle.”

“You were dead.”

“I came back.”

Numbtongue’s eyes widened. The [Sergeant] raised one of his four arms, touched his body.

“I was brought back. It was my Queen’s will. That and the will of the other Soldiers. The Rite of Anastases gave me life. It is an Antinium secret.”

“Really?”

The crimson eyes widened. The Antinium head nodded once.

“Yes. My resurrection was revealed to the city of Liscor days ago. But I did not see you.”

“I’m not allowed in the city.”

A pause. Two antennae waved for a second. Goblin eyes blinked.

“That is why.”

The two looked at each other one last time. Numbtongue stared down at the mud and broken vines he sat in. Then up at Yellow Splatters. He remembered a broken body. A column of Soldiers charging. A spell that tore their ranks apart. And Yellow Splatters’ foreign gaze inspected Numbtongue. What he remembered, the Hobgoblin didn’t know. At last, he bent and extended two of his hands on his right side.

“It’s good to see you, Numbtongue.”

Slowly, ever so slowly, the Hobgoblin reached up. And when the cool insect’s hands touched his, he flinched. But the touch was real. Strong. Numbtongue felt himself being pulled up. Numbtongue rose and turned to Yellow Splatters. He searched for words.

“You too.”



——



The Goblin and the Antinium Soldier stood on the hill, gazing down across the Floodplains. The valley of mud was being torn down, and the thick, wet sludge was slowly spilling across the ground. The Painted Soldiers were getting back to work. But Yellow Splatters didn’t join them. He stood with Numbtongue.

The Hobgoblin saw the [Sergeant] watching Falling Snow. The Soldier was sitting on the ground, still muddy. Recovering. Numbtongue couldn’t be certain how well the Soldier was. So he asked.

“He will live. His mind does not seem affected. He was waiting for death, not out of air entirely. He will live. Thanks to you.”

“Mm. Good.”

The Hobgoblin nodded once. And that was all he said. At last, the [Bard] grunted.

“You can speak?”

The [Sergeant] nodded shortly.

“I can. I was reborn, my body remade by the Free Queen. I have a voice that I might lead my fellow Soldiers.”

“…Huh.”

Yellow Splatters waited for a question like the ones Erin had showered him with, or Pawn or Belgrade. But all Numbtongue did after that was grunt.

“Good.”

“What?”

The Painted Soldier looked over. Numbtongue shrugged a Goblin’s shrug.

“Good. Right? Feels good.”

“Yes. It…feels good.”

Yellow Splatters breathed in and out. He spoke the word again.

“Yes.”

Numbtongue smiled.

“Good. Better.”

That was all he said. The wind blew across the Floodplains, drying the mud on the Hobgoblin’s body, ruffling his hair. Yellow Splatters watched the Goblin pick some mud out of his ears. He spoke abruptly.

“You were there. With the five—with the Goblins.”

The [Bard] paused. His expression clouded for a moment. Then he looked up at Yellow Splatters, and it cleared. Not becoming happier. But easing, opening. He nodded to Yellow Splatters.

“We were there.”

The Painted Soldier paused. Then it was his turn to nod. He opened his mandibles, and a hundred things to say flashed across his mind.

“It was—”

He broke off. He glanced at Numbtongue.

“We—”

Another pause.

“When Pawn—”

Silence. Yellow Splatters, for the first time in his life, found himself at a loss for the words he had been given. Because they were all inadequate. But the [Bard], quietly and with simple words, said what Yellow Splatters struggled to find.

“Being the last one is hard.”

The [Sergeant] paused. He opened his mandibles, and his four hands clenched and unclenched. His antennae waved, searching. Then he looked at Numbtongue. And his explanations, his lies, his need to tell fell apart. Because there was nothing to say. The Goblin had been there. He understood.

“Yes. It is. Very hard.”

The two stood together. Just looking at each other. A dead Antinium and a lonely Goblin. And they remembered. Numbtongue remembered a Soldier who spoke with no words. Yellow Splatters remembered a Goblin much like the one he saw. But one of five. The two saw what had changed and what had not. And they remembered something else.

Numbtongue looked across the valley. At the Painted Soldiers, fighting, struggling against Shield Spiders, watching the valleys filled with mud carefully, excavating them in key spots to let the drainage begin. And he looked at Yellow Splatters. Suddenly, he felt thirsty. And dirty. And tired. So he pointed back across the Floodplains at a small building he called home.

“Want…want to get a drink? The inn has drinks. And food.”

Numbtongue had never said those words before, but they felt natural. Perfect for the moment. Yellow Splatters froze for a heartbeat. He looked at Numbtongue, and he read the Goblin. He understood him without having to speak. More than just words—he read Numbtongue’s face, his body language, almost tense, expectant.

Numbtongue looked at Yellow Splatters and saw the Soldier’s antennae flicker for a moment, his mandibles open, and his posture stiffen—and then relax. And the looseness of the way he lifted his mandibles, the opening and shutting of his hands—all of it was different, but familiar. The Soldier nodded at last.

“I would be grateful to do so. But I am tasked with a duty. I must clear the Shield Spiders another hour yet. I cannot abandon my post. Or my Soldiers.”

He looked at Numbtongue. And Yellow Splatters felt regret. The Hobgoblin nodded as if it were the most natural thing in the world. He eyed the Painted Soldiers, the destroyed Shield Spider nests, and then he turned to Yellow Splatters.

“Want help?”

And the Soldier hesitated, then smiled. He saw the green clawed hand extend. This time, the Antinium took the Goblin’s hand. The monster looked at the monster. For once, neither found they needed to explain. They were dissimilar, from the color of their bodies to their classes and their species and their purposes. One stood alone. The other had been made to be different.

And yet, the two had something. A connection. They had been there. They had seen the same battlefield. They had lost. They understood each other. They…understood each other.

It made the world feel like a different place.





Interlude – Numbtongue (Pt.2)


(Hey, I’ve got news! Volume 2 of The Wandering Inn might come out as an e-book soon! The Audiobook is scheduled for September 10th! Madness! Find out more details )



Later, at lunch time, The Wandering Inn was faced with an unusual sight. And that was by the standards of the inn, which meant it was very unusual. Even unexpected. The crowd of Pallassians and Liscorian citizens couldn’t help but stare. One of the many tables in Erin’s common room, enlarged by the [Grand Theatre] Skill, was occupied. That wasn’t the unusual bit. The unusual bit was who sat there still smelling of mud and Shield Spider fluids.

An Antinium Soldier and a Hobgoblin. They sat casually at the table next to each other, rather than across from each other. It was odd, perhaps, but the distance would have been stranger. And the two could watch more of each other’s body language like this. They spoke in bursts, in a private world in the public inn. The Soldier, Yellow Splatters, nodded as he glanced around the inn at the staring faces. Those he locked eyes with snapped away quickly, but the rest just stared.

“They do look. I knew it before, but now I see them more often.”

“Stare and stare some more. But if we stare, they run off.”

Numbtongue bared his teeth. Yellow Splatters looked about and met eyes with a Drake. Said Drake flinched. The Painted Soldier calmly held the gaze until the Drake looked away.

“Yes. This is true.”

Numbtongue nodded and shrugged. He looked down at the bowl in front of him and smiled. He’d just been served, as had Yellow Splatters. He showed the Soldier what was in his bowl and offered him his spoon.

“Have this. This is my best—no, favorite—food.”

The Painted Soldier stared into the bowl curiously. It was very…orange. He detected small, squiggly noodles in what seemed like some kind of sauce. The Soldier took the spoon, which Numbtongue had been licking, and dipped it into the bowl. He sampled a spoonful.

“What is it?”

“Mac and cheese. Which is…noodles and cheese. Erin says it’s from her home. It’s good for the stomach. Lots of energy.”

Numbtongue patted his. Then he frowned.

“Wait. Can you eat noodles?”

Yellow Splatters paused.

“Yes.”

The Goblin frowned.

“Erin said…”

He broke off, clearly trying to recall that pertinent bit of information. Yellow Splatters shrugged.

“My Soldiers and I can eat wheat. It is just…uncomfortable. Later. This is good. The cheese is good. Try mine.”

He slid his bowl to Numbtongue. The Goblin frowned at the black dots with wings.

“Acid Flies.”

He shrugged and took his spoon back from Yellow Splatters. The Antinium had been using his fingers. Numbtongue loaded his spoon and took a bite. He crunched for a second with a sound that made the nearby diners gag. Excepting the other Painted Soldiers, of course. Forty-nine of them were enjoying their own bowls of Acid Flies at nearby tables. Numbtongue chewed and swallowed.

“Hm. Crunchy.”

“You do not like it.”

Yellow Splatters turned to Numbtongue. The Hob shook his head.

“Okay. Good for travel. Not enough taste.”

“I see.”

The two stared at each other. Then, silently, Numbtongue offered his bowl to Yellow Splatters. The Soldier tipped Numbtongue’s bowl up and spooned the cheesy sauce out over the Acid Flies. He handed the first bowl back, and Numbtongue ladled some of the cheesy Acid Flies into his bowl of noodles, thus creating largely the same dish for both. The two began to eat. Numbtongue grunted after a second.

“Hm.”

“Good. Crunchy.”

“Yes. Flavorful.”

The two smiled. Mrsha, peeking over the edge of the table, gagged. Numbtongue grinned at her.

“This is Mrsha. You know her?”

He gestured, and the Painted Soldier peered at Mrsha, who shyly sat there, drumming her paws on the table. He stared at her white paws and remembered. The [Sergeant] nodded abruptly.

“We have met. Hello. I am Yellow Splatters. Do you remember me?”

The Gnoll cub sniffed at Yellow Splatters and frowned. But studied the pattern on his carapace and then nodded. Yellow Splatters hesitated, and Numbtongue nudged him. The slight nod the Hobgoblin gave was enough. The [Sergeant] held out his hand. Mrsha sniffed it, then carefully held out her own paw.

She cautiously shook the offered hand. She nodded at Yellow Splatters, took another sniff at his bowl, and hopped off the table. The [Sergeant] opened and closed his hand as Mrsha scampered away.

“Soft.”

Numbtongue nodded after a moment and went back to shovelling down more of his combination food. After a moment, Yellow Splatters returned to his meal. The Goblin considered the Antinium sitting next to him.

He didn’t understand the Soldiers’ reverence for everything. But he did connect with their love of good food. And more—he spotted a Gnoll passing by holding a bowl.

“Ishkr.”

The Gnoll [Waiter] stopped. Numbtongue reached for the bowl Ishkr was carrying. The Gnoll sighed, but let him have it. The Hobgoblin placed the large bowl in front of Yellow Splatters.

“Try this.”

The Painted Soldier did. His mandibles clicked softly with the first bite.

“Soft. Cold. Wet. And sweet. What is it?”

“Ice cream.”

“It is cold!”

“Yes. Good, right?”

Numbtongue grinned at Yellow Splatters. And he was rewarded by an Antinium smile: mandibles raised and opening. The Hob was pleased—until he heard a voice snap at him.

“Numbtongue! Did you take the entire bowl? Ceria just helped us make that!”

Lyonette had noticed the purloining. The Hob hunched, but she strode over, hands on her hips. He pointed at the bowl as the [Princess] glared down at him.

“Sorry. Can I have some?”

“You already did. You mean for Yellow Splatters? Fine.”

The young woman sighed. Numbtongue brightened.

“Okay. Yellow Splatters. Now try this.”

He scooped the ice cream into the [Sergeant]’s bowl, covered it with Acid Flies, and held it out to Yellow Splatters. Lyonette seemed queasy, but Yellow Splatters took the spoon and began to eat. His mandibles raised.

“Good! Cold and good.”

“Right?”

The Hobgoblin was so pleased Lyonette didn’t have the heart to voice her own opinion on the matter. She turned and saw another young woman making her way across the room. Erin did a double-take at the sight of Goblin and Antinium, then at the ice cream.

“Ooh! That’s like chocolate chip ice cream! Hey, Lyonette, how’d you make—oh. Ew. Those ain’t raisins.”

She paused at the table. Erin and blinked at Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters.

“Hi, Yellow Splatters. And…Numbtongue? You alright?”

“Yup.”

The Hobgoblin barely remembered why Erin would ask. She eyed his muddy, sweaty brow, the scratches on his right arm, and Yellow Splatters. She opened her mouth and then frowned.

“Is that our ice cream?”

The Hobgoblin nodded.

“All of it, yes.”

“And you just turned it into fly cream. Or—no, wait, that’s even worse. Iced flies? Ice fly cream. Ice cream with flies.”

Erin’s tone was, mockingly severe. He hunched his shoulders.

“…Yes? But it’s good.”

To prove it, he took a spoonful of the ice cream and dipped it in the flies. Erin closed her eyes rather than watch the rest. When she opened them, she looked at Numbtongue.

“Well. If you like it, fine. But don’t expect us to eat the crazy stuff you and Yellow Splatters eat. You two are so crazy—”

“We need the rest.”

Lyonette interjected. Numbtongue frowned. Yellow Splatters turned to his Painted Soldiers, who had noticed the strange dessert. Erin blinked at him, then saw Numbtongue silently meeting her eyes. There was a pleading gaze Erin hadn’t ever seen before. She met his eyes, nodded, and then turned to Lyonette.

“Give it to the Painted Soldiers, Lyonette. Let the Pallass group eat cake. Rufelt and Lasica know how to make ice cream anyways.”

“What? Erin!”

Lyonette protested. She met Erin’s eyes, saw the jerk of the head, and the [Princess] blew out her cheeks.

“I—oh, fine! We’ll make more.”

“Sorry.”

Numbtongue hesitated, because Lyonette did seem peeved. The [Princess] shook her head.

“Sorry, Numbtongue. It’s fine, really. And hello, um, Yellow Splatters.”

She waved at the [Sergeant] awkwardly. Erin smiled at the two and followed Lyonette. The Hobgoblin and Soldier clearly heard Erin whispering to Lyonette as they moved backwards.

“It’s just ice cream.”

“Worth six gold! We only have a narrow window to make money—they’re already copying the recipe in Pallass!”

“So? The Antinium can have it. Numbtongue just invented their favorite dessert! Don’t be mean. He’s made a friend!”

Erin glanced back at Numbtongue, and Lyonette relented. Numbtongue, sitting at his table, blinked. A friend? He looked to his side at Yellow Splatters. The Antinium carefully spooned more ice cream covered in flies into his mandibles.

“My visual and auditory senses were improved by my Queen for my new role. However, it usually does not matter. Others seem to forget the Antinium are capable of hearing.”

“Or Goblins.”

Numbtongue nodded. He stared at Yellow Splatters. Again. He’d been sneaking glances all throughout their conversation. No, before that, even. While they’d cleared the Shield Spider nests. Marching to the inn…he’d just been watching Yellow Splatters. And Numbtongue was sure the [Sergeant] was doing the same.

It was hard to tell; the Antinium had eyes like bugs, so all he had to do was turn his head. But they were watching each other, this Goblin and Antinium.

They had exchanged few words since their conversation on the hill. Verbally. But, talk? They’d talked, like about which nest to destroy next. And this chatter about favorite food had come up just before they’d come to the inn. That was the thing that threw Numbtongue every few seconds.

They were chatting. Just chatting about nonsensical things. Favorite food? Numbtongue hadn’t had a favorite food before a month or two ago. His favorite food had been the one he could eat without throwing up later. Any food when he was starving. But now…

He was chatting. Again, the Goblin felt an odd sense of imbalance, as if he’d turned around repeatedly and the world was spinning. Because this was not something that Goblins did. Not something he did.

Look at Mrsha. The Gnoll was experimentally sniffing one of the bowls covered in Acid Fly ice cream. Numbtongue offered her his spoon, and she licked at the ice cream, avoiding the bug bits. He didn’t talk to her. Numbtongue liked Mrsha. And he was, oh, so very grateful that she was willing to talk to him. Goblins had killed her tribe. But he couldn’t talk to her.

“Mrsha, don’t lick that! Numbtongue, don’t encourage her. She gets one dessert, and if she spoils herself, she doesn’t get anything else.”

Lyonette scolded both Goblin and Gnoll as she passed by, serving the precious ice cream to the Painted Soldiers. Both Hob and Gnoll child winced at their table, and Mrsha, making low, insulting growling sounds, made a sign with her paws that made Numbtongue laugh. Lyonette looked back sharply, and Mrsha disappeared as Numbtongue schooled his face to sobriety.

“What?”

“Nothing.”

He didn’t chat with Lyonette either. He talked with her, although the [Princess] was very busy. But he did talk with her—Numbtongue had the impression Lyonette was still a bit wary of him. Well, he was wary of her. But they respected each other. And she was one of two people he ever conversed with. The other was—

“No ice cream! Sorry, we’re making more! Give us, uh, five, ten minutes!”

“What?”

Yellow Splatters and Numbtongue looked to the side. Erin was informing Pallass’ crowd of the delay. They were outraged, as were some of the Liscorites. Liscorians? They were giving the Antinium and Numbtongue the stink-eye. Numbtongue didn’t care. His eyes were on Erin. She was shaking her finger at an angry Garuda visible through the magic door.

The portal hurt Numbtongue’s eyes; if you walked to the side, it became two-dimensional until it nearly disappeared. From the back, the door was just…a door. Standing up with a crowd gathered around it. Weird. The portal only activated from the front.

Numbtongue shook his head. Erin. She was moving around the inn, talking to the odd Gnoll that smelled like a dozen potions, Grimalkin, Jelaqua, and the huge armored…Dullahan named Maughin. She was the person that Numbtongue spoke with most often.

No matter what, if she was busy or he was out of the inn all day, Erin always tried to find at least ten minutes, an hour, to talk with Numbtongue. Even if it was only having dinner in the same room like she’d offered tonight. She was kind. But Numbtongue couldn’t chat with Erin.

He talked with her. She was that kind of person. She’d listen to Numbtongue’s adventures seriously, his worries, and what he wanted. When he told her, Numbtongue was sure that Erin was listening. If he had told her about his struggles, about being unhappy in her inn, he was sure Erin would have made resolving his problems a priority of hers. His world became hers. But Numbtongue didn’t want that. He was afraid of Erin’s kindness as much as the hatred of others. He loved to talk with her. But it was talk.

And yet—Numbtongue’s eyes went back to Yellow Splatters. He jumped and realized the Soldier was staring at him. Had been for a while. The Painted Soldier put down his bowl and pushed it forwards. It was cleaned of all flies and melted ice cream completely. Which was impressive; Yellow Splatters couldn’t lick his bowl clean like Numbtongue. The [Sergeant] nodded again.

“They truly do not notice that we listen.”

“Who?”

Numbtongue frowned for a moment before he recalled what Erin had said. He looked around at her and Lyonette rushing back and forth.

“Oh. Friends.”

The [Sergeant] nodded. He delicately reached for a cup with one hand. Two of his other hands were resting on the table; the last was flicking a bit of food from his mandibles. Numbtongue watched, fascinated.

“I have much respect for Erin Solstice. She is…important to Pawn. And to the Painted Antinium. And me. But I believe she is wrong in this regard. We are not friends.”

He paused. Numbtongue blinked at him. The Hobgoblin shrugged.

“Goblins don’t have friends.”

The Antinium nodded.

“Indeed. The concept is foreign to Antinium. It is not a relationship that exists in the Hive.”

“Mhm. Same with Goblins. Goblins have a tribe. Or Goblins are in another tribe. Either way, Goblins are all Goblins. We don’t have friends.”

This time, both Goblin and Antinium nodded. They were on the same wavelength. Goblins didn’t have friends. They were all Goblins. Sometimes you attacked another tribe, but you were all Goblins when you got down to it; you were on the same side. Goblins had too many enemies to make distinctions. And your tribe…Numbtongue thought of his fellow Redfangs and swallowed, though he had nothing to eat. You were friends with everyone in your tribe, or no one.

Yellow Splatters was still nodding.

“We are not friends. We have not established any grounds for friendship as I understand the concept. Nor have we formally declared it. I am also unprepared for such a relationship. I have not studied the subject under Revalantor Klbkch. Thus, we cannot be friends. I apologize if this offends you, Numbtongue.”

The Goblin considered this for only a moment before waving a claw idly.

“I don’t care. I don’t have friends. Except for Erin?”

He and the Antinium considered the [Innkeeper]. Yellow Splatters frowned, which, on the Antinium’s face, was represented by his antennae drooping and mandibles drawing together and lowering.

“Would she qualify as a friend? By that standard, then, all of the Painted Soldiers….”

“Maybe? Maybe she’s not a ‘friend’. Maybe…Lyonette? No. She’s not my friend. Mrsha?”

The two looked around for the Gnoll. Yellow Splatters scratched at one antenna gently.

“I was informed by Revalantor Klbkch that making friends with members of the Antinium not considered fully grown was something of a social fault.”

“Hm. Maybe?”

Yellow Splatters leaned over the table.

“How does one become a friend, anyways? I have heard they exchange blood.”

“Um…Redfangs do that.”

“Really? Are you all friends, then?”

“…No. Wait. Let me think.”

The Hobgoblin sat back, thinking. There it was again. He was chatting with Yellow Splatters. Not talking about something huge and momentous or deeply personal like with Erin. Just…talking about mundane things. Unimportant things, like friendship or favorite foods. It was so novel.

Of course, Numbtongue had done the same with Headscratcher, with Badarrow and Rabbiteater and Shorthilt and the others. But they hadn’t done this. They’d been a team; they didn’t often waste time talking when they could read each other so well. That was why this was so novel.

“Redfangs aren’t friends. Garen would have said so. We’re brothers. Comrades. Warriors. F-family?”

Numbtongue pronounced the word awkwardly. It was one of the first times he’d used it. But Erin had taught him the meaning, and it was true of his old tribe. He looked down into his mug. Yellow Splatters gazed at him, and Numbtongue waited. But all the Antinium did was nod and drink from his own mug.

“Friends. Family. What…refreshing words.”

Numbtongue glanced up sharply.

“Yes. They are.”

The two regarded each other a second time. And there it was. Numbtongue had waited for Yellow Splatters to ask a question. Any question. About the Redfangs. About Numbtongue’s past. About what he was…feeling. And he hadn’t. He didn’t need to ask. What was amazing, what was special, was the way the two knew each other. More than just acquaintances who’d met once before.

They’d fought on the same battlefield. And more—their lives mirrored each other’s. They both understood something Numbtongue could never have explained to Erin or Lyonette. That mattered.

“I have thanked you for saving Falling Snow. I feel I should do so again, and for accompanying me while fulfilling my duties. And for sharing your food.”

Yellow Splatters was getting up from his table. Numbtongue felt a pang. He looked up as the Painted Soldiers noticed and immediately stood with their [Sergeant].

“You’re going?”

“I have no reason to stay. And my absence will allow a Painted Soldier to take my place. They will rotate into the inn so that all may enjoy the experience.”

“Oh.”

The Hobgoblin stared at the [Sergeant]. Yellow Splatters visibly hesitated and glanced around the inn. Back at Numbtongue.

“I could sit longer. I…would not wish to deprive another Soldier of their time above. But…”

He hesitated and looked over. The forty-nine other Soldiers gazed back, and Numbtongue saw them communicating, invisibly, as the Redfangs might. As any Goblins would. He envied them and hurt at the same time. Yellow Splatters turned back to Numbtongue after a moment.

“I will stay. To acquire more information. If you would agree to keep me company?”

He watched Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin smiled. And as Yellow Splatters sat back down and leaned over the table, Numbtongue realized something. He wasn’t feeling unhappy. It still hurt, but he wasn’t dissatisfied. He was…he lifted his mug and sipped it, then noticed it was empty. Numbtongue absently waved at Drassi for a refill. For him and Yellow Splatters. The [Sergeant] accepted a mug with a free hand.

“So. What have you been doing since the battle against the Goblin Lord? I was dead.”



——



At first, it was just a continuation to the thirty minutes they’d sat and talked. Then an hour. And then two. By two and a half hours, Numbtongue had to pee. He got up, wandered out of The Wandering Inn, and joined the queue for the outhouses. There were five now; apparently, two had just been dug. Even so, Gnolls and Drakes were standing in line, and Numbtongue was grateful for the distance between each outhouse. It made the sounds a bit less…pronounced.

One of the outhouses had been built to accommodate a half-Giant. It was that one Numbtongue was in line for; he liked the space. The door opened, and Maughin stepped out. Or rather, his body did. His head was still chatting with Jelaqua in the inn.

Numbtongue and the Drakes and Gnolls stepped out of the way, but the Dullahan’s body had some kind of instinctual awareness because he walked calmly back to the inn without any uncertainty.

“Ancestors, that’s creepy.”

One of the Drakes in line muttered. A Gnoll in front of him nodded and sniffed, then made a face.

“Ergh. That was a mistake.”

“You Gnolls have it rough around here, huh?”

The Drake seemed sympathetic. The Gnoll just grimaced.

“Well, we grow up smelling everything. This is hardly worse. But whatever that Dullahan ate—”

“Don’t talk to me about it. I just had lunch. I’ll tell you one thing, though, those forges Pallass has. If those Dullahans can work steel everyday like I saw them doing this morning—makes you think.”

“That Lism’s right? Or Krshia?”

“I don’t know! It just makes you think.”

The Drake grimaced. He glanced across another line at a nodding Drake and then turned his head.

“It’s weird. I know it’s because it’s the crazy Human doing it, but she is our crazy Human. What do you th—”

He stared at Numbtongue and froze. He must not have seen the Hobgoblin, or mistaken green skin for scales. The Gnoll jumped when he spotted Numbtongue as well. The [Bard] looked at them as they edged closer to the big outhouse and closed his mouth. He said nothing, and the line moved a lot faster. And no one got into line behind Numbtongue until he was done with his business and walking back to the inn.

That soured Numbtongue’s mood. It was still the same. So, when he sat down across from Yellow Splatters, he didn’t immediately speak. Which was fine; the Antinium was waxing eloquent after two hours of speaking.

“There you are. I was waiting for your return. Did you know that Erin Solstice is considering selling the Hive’s supply of Rxlvn?”

“What?”

“Our alcohol. It is…potent. I believe it is technically classified as a poison, but Miss Solstice has expressed interest in it. I was saying that I believed it would leave an impact.”

Numbtongue nodded restlessly.

“Maybe.”

He glanced at Yellow Splatters. The [Sergeant] was in a good mood, but Numbtongue was suddenly miserable again. Restlessly, the Goblin carved into the table with his claws, scratching the softer wood. He could feel eyes on him again. Of course, they’d been staring all this time. But his visit to the bathroom had refocused them on him and Yellow Splatters. The Antinium was getting looks, of course, but it was on Numbtongue, the Goblin, that they were harshest.

Some of the Drakes by the door to Pallass had seen Numbtongue pass by on his way in and out. They were speaking to the people on the other side, explaining. Justifying. Numbtongue could catch fragments of the conversation.

“…well, yes, but—you know, about the battle…?”

“—not saying that I would personally—not allowed in the city, of course not! There was an incident—”

“Never in Pallass. Well, it’s just one. There were others, an entire damn tribe. Thankfully—”

The Hobgoblin’s grip tightened on the table. Yellow Splatters noticed, and both turned to the doors and the speakers there. They shut up.

Drakes and Gnolls gazed across the inn at the duo. Some were just talking, enjoying themselves, watching the play. But too many went silent and still as they noticed the Goblin and Antinium looking. And silence was a plague. It spread.

As she circulated the room, Erin heard the sound die down. She frowned around and saw the source. She might not have known what had caused Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters to go silent, but she could see the tenseness. She began to push her way through the crowd. Too slowly; a Drake made uncomfortable by the staring Hobgoblin decided to make his voice heard. He stood up a touch unsteadily, and the alcohol slurred his tongue a bit.

“Hey! What’re you looking at, Goblin? And you—Antinium!”

The rest of the room fell silent. Temile, on stage with his cast, paused, and every head turned to the source of the shout. Numbtongue shrugged, a Goblin’s catch-all answer.

“Just looking.”

“Oh yeah? Look somewhere else. I can’t enjoy my drinks with a Goblin watching me.”

The Drake glared and tried to make a rude gesture. Erin pushed her way past a group of Gnolls.

“Hey! If you have a problem with Numbtongue, you can get out! Other people can take your place!”

“I’m not killing him. I read the sign. Just because I’m tolerating his presence doesn’t mean I have to put up with him staring. See? He’s still doing it!”

The Drake pointed angrily at Numbtongue. To be fair, the Hobgoblin was glaring. Erin hesitated. She looked at the Drake. He was drunk, and he had faded green scales mixed a bit with blue. Erin folded her arms.

“Well, maybe you shouldn’t say mean things. I bet that’s why he’s glaring.”

“Mean things? What, like the fact that it’s good that Goblins are banned from the city? Good. Pallass doesn’t let Goblins in. Why should Liscor? I’m fine with Dullahans and those bird-people, but Goblins? No. Never.”

The Drake took another drink, ignoring Erin’s glare. Worse, his words had a lot of silent support. Numbtongue looked around. He was tense. Erin just got mad. She thrust a finger at the Drake’s snout, and he recoiled.

“Hey, I’m drinking here!”

“Hey yourself, buddy! You say that one more time, and you’re out! In fact, I should kick you out! Numbtongue fought for Liscor! His friends died because he helped stop the Goblin Lord! Goblins attacked Liscor and—”

“Shut up!”

The Drake hurled his glass onto the ground. It smashed, and Erin leapt back. She opened her mouth furiously, and at another table, Relc stood up with a groan. He abandoned Grimalkin and Embria and stepped forwards at the same time as Ishkr.

“Alright, buddy. You’re drunk. Why don’t you pay up for the cup and liquid and leave?”

He raised his claws placatingly. The drunk Drake wavered. He might have gone without more than a fuss, but Erin was eying the broken glass and looking back at Numbtongue. She turned back and raised her voice.

“Yeah! Get out! We don’t need racist jerks here. Goblins aren’t all bad, you know!”

The Drake stopped as he fumbled for his coin pouch, swearing. Slowly, he gazed up at Erin. His drunk anger faded and became something soberer. Darker. He pointed at Erin as Relc barred his way.

“Not all bad? Goblins killed my sister.”

The room went silent. Erin’s furious mouth closed slowly. Relc hesitated. The drunk Drake glanced around.

“I’m being unreasonable? Me? I’m sitting in the same inn as that thing because I wanted to talk to my brother.”

He pointed unsteadily through the door.

“I didn’t come here to cause a fight. But that thing’s here. Staring at me. You know what Goblins did, Miss Human? They killed my sister. My best friend. They were just travelling from our village to the city. It was a two hour walk! You could see them from the walls. But a bunch of Goblins killed them. Stabbed them to death and tried to eat them. You monsters.”

He directed that last at Numbtongue, spitting in his general direction. All eyes fastened on the Goblin. Relc, looking around, made a judgment call.

“Alright, pal. We get it. That’s terrible. Really. But you’re drunk—”

“Get your claws off me!”

The Drake shoved at Relc but failed to make the [Guardsman] fall back. He swore as Relc manhandled him towards the door.

“You didn’t save her! The City Watch saw everything, and they didn’t stop it!”

“We can’t be everywhere. Keep walking.”

“Are Goblins supposed to be safe? Huh? I’m letting this one stay! Aren’t I the reasonable one? I’m not seeking vengeance. But why do I have to pretend that this thing isn’t dangerous? Goblins killed my sister! What do you have to say to that, Hob, huh?”

“Don’t answer that.”

Relc snapped at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin ignored Relc. He stared at the struggling Drake and around at the silent room. The judging eyes. Slowly, Numbtongue stood up. He called across the room at the Drake.

“Humans killed my parents.”

The Drake paused. Relc swore under his breath. Now the conversation had two sides. The drunk Drake shouted at Numbtongue.

“Oh yeah? Join the club! I’m not a Human, though. So if you think that—”

“Drakes killed my tribe.”

Numbtongue interrupted the Drake. He slowly pointed at Relc. The [Guardsman] paused.

“That one killed my Chieftain.”

Numbtongue’s finger pointed right, towards Embria.

“That one killed thousands of my people. Because you didn’t open the gates after we stopped the Goblin Lord.”

Embria looked up. Unlike Relc, there was little guilt in her eyes. Numbtongue gazed around the room and then back at the angry Drake.

“I didn’t kill your…sister. Or friend. I didn’t know the Goblins who did. I’m not them. And your—people—killed more Goblins. Why should I tolerate you?”

He folded his arms almost triumphantly. Daring the Drake to come up with a response. He couldn’t, Numbtongue was sure. But that surety—after a second of hesitation, a sneer crossed the Drake’s face.

“It doesn’t matter. You’re monsters. You can pretend you’re not. You can even speak. But everyone knows what Goblin Kings and Goblin Lords do. A few of you can be tamed. But that’s all.”

Numbtongue’s eyes widened. He took a step forwards, and Erin blocked his way. She glared at the Drake and then around uneasily.

“Alright! That’s it! Relc, toss this guy out!”

“I need the magic door. He’ll just roll down the hill and come back up.”

Relc pointed to the open door as he restrained the struggling Drake. Erin nodded as Lyonette rushed over to change the setting. Relc didn’t budge as the Drake tried to elbow him and stomp on one foot. He had the drunk in a headlock. But the Drake could still shout. He cast one eye at Numbtongue.

“Go on! Kick me out! But everyone knows I’m right! Maybe Goblins can be safe! One or two. But no one’ll ever let a tribe stay around Liscor in peace! You know why? Because of the Goblin King! And it doesn’t matter how many of you die. Because Goblins—Goblins are animals. Get it? We’re Drakes. And Gnolls. And even damned Humans. We’re not animals, so we count. You don’t. Get it?”

Numbtongue opened his mouth. But he didn’t know what to say. He clenched his fists, and Erin grabbed him. The Drake just laughed at the Hobgoblin’s expression.

“I’m right! See? It can’t even respond. See? I—”

Relc adjusted his hold, and the Drake’s supply of wind cut off abruptly. He choked, and Lyonette raised her head as the portal in the magic door changed.

“Door’s open!”

“Finally.”

Relc grunted and heaved. The Drake flew through the door, scattering a crowd of potential guests. They stared into the inn as Relc glanced over his shoulder. Numbtongue was shaking. His mouth was still open, but he didn’t know what to say. He’d never had to argue like that before. And he’d—

“It’s just a drunk guy. I guess Goblins did kill his family. But he’s wrong.”

Erin looked around in the silence. She met everyone’s eye, but few were looking straight at her. A Gnoll from Liscor murmured as Lyonette silently let people into the inn.

“He might be. But he came to the inn peacefully, Miss Solstice. Didn’t do more than complain. Which he has a right to, no? He lost his sister and friend. That he came here, knowing a Goblin was present, shows he was on your side. And Krshia’s.”

“So he has the right to say that to Numbtongue?”

Erin snapped back. The Gnoll didn’t reply. He turned away from her. And he didn’t leave, but the silence in the room grew more pronounced. Numbtongue looked around. He stared at the faces, some calm, some judging. Others, like Grimalkin, weighing him on some imaginary scale. And he hated it. Most of all, though, he hated the ones standing at the back, in a group of their own.

Bevussa, Keldrass, Earlia of Gemhammer, and Nailren of Kelia’s Pride. More—the Horns of Hammerad. A few other Silver-rank teams. Adventurers. They said nothing. But their expressions told Numbtongue what they thought. Here was a ‘safe’ Goblin. One they wouldn’t kill.

One, and only one.

It was the same as yesterday. The same as the one time he’d gone to Liscor. Numbtongue clenched his fists, aware of every person who drew back when they saw that and his bared teeth. He searched for the right words. But he didn’t have them. He wished he could tell that Drake how wrong he was. Tell him of the Goblins he called animals. Numbtongue wished he could show him. But the others were dead and gone. And he…

The Hobgoblin moved. People jumped out of his way as Numbtongue stormed towards the stairs. Up them, towards his room. Erin ran after him, but no one else moved. They watched as he disappeared upstairs. And then Erin. And then the big Soldier got up and followed both. After a few more moments, someone told a joke, the inn laughed, and it got back to normal.

The Goblin was gone. But upstairs, the Goblin was always there. And he was always a Goblin.



——



Yellow Splatters stood behind Erin, listening. Just listening to Numbtongue and her talk. She was standing in the hallway outside his room. Numbtongue was standing in the doorway, Yellow Splatters closer to the stairs. The sounds of the merry common room drifted up. But above, the air was colder. More painful.

Numbtongue was upset as he stood in the doorway. He had just stood there when Erin and Yellow Splatters found him. He hadn’t slammed the door or hid in his room. That was a thing for Human children. A door couldn’t stop an adventurer with a crossbow or a spell. You had to stand and fight or run far away. And he had lost that fight. Yellow Splatters had seen his face.

Intriguing. The Soldier had never considered a fight could be won with words. But these ones had left invisible wounds. Erin was trying to mend them now, but it wasn’t working.

“It was just one Drake, Numbtongue. He won’t come back. I’ll make sure of it.”

“They all think that way.”

“Not all. Relc’s trying. You didn’t have to…I know what he did. But I think he’d even apologize if—”

“For Garen? He can say sorry to Garen, not me. If sorry brings back dead Goblins.”

Numbtongue sneered, his fists clenched. Erin fell silent. She looked at him helplessly, angry and upset for him. Yellow Splatters saw that too. That was what drove the Antinium to Erin. The fact that she would be angry or sad or happy with them. For them. But now it wasn’t helping.

“You don’t have to—no. I mean—I know it’s hard. If there’s anything I can…what can I do to help, Numbtongue?”

“Let me go to Liscor.”

The Goblin’s head rose with burning eyes. Erin wavered.

“You can’t. I’m sorry. I talked it over with Zevara, Numbtongue. You’ll be in danger.”

“Don’t care.”

“You can’t fight them. Any one of them could hit you with a stone or cast a spell or stab you—”

“I don’t care. I want to go.”

“Why? What’s Liscor got? I can get you anything, Numbtongue! What do you want?”

“I don’t know. I want to go there and find out.”

The Goblin turned his head and stared out his window at the city in the distance. Erin bit her lip hard. She didn’t know what to say. Numbtongue turned back and gazed past her at Yellow Splatters. The Soldier raised a hand.

“If I am intruding, I will remove myself.”

Erin jumped. She hadn’t realized he was here. Numbtongue just laughed, and a flicker of envy entered his eyes.

“You can go into Liscor. Do they stare at you there? Do they say things? Like…”

He gestured to the stairs. The Painted Soldier paused, his arms folded.

“They stare. But they stare everywhere. I have not been addressed like you are. I understand that you are banned from Liscor.”

“Yes. They close the gates before I can get in.”

The Hobgoblin clenched his fists, staring blackly ahead. Erin’s face fell.

“You went again? Why does it matter?”

“They died for Liscor. I can’t go in.”

Numbtongue’s claws dug into his flesh. Erin opened her mouth, but it was Yellow Splatters who tilted his head. The Soldier had been enjoying his conversation with Numbtongue. He felt a kinship to the Goblin. But this line of thought confused him.

“Why does it matter? Is the worth of Goblins—and their deaths—truly linked to your right to be in Liscor? Is that what they all died for?”

Erin gasped. Numbtongue’s eyes narrowed, and he tensed. But then he focused on Yellow Splatters and, slowly, relaxed. From anyone else, the question might have stung. But Yellow Splatters returned the gaze calmly. After a moment, Numbtongue blinked. The Hobgoblin exhaled and shook his head.

“It’s not about Liscor. We—the Redfangs, the Flooded Waters tribe didn’t fight for Liscor. We fought because the Goblin Lord was bad. Bad Goblin. And for you.”

He looked at Erin. Her face went pale. Numbtongue turned from her to Yellow Splatters. The Soldier nodded.

“We fought and died for Erin Solstice as well. As Pawn requested. This is a fact and what I understood of Goblins. So why does access to Liscor matter?”

The young woman looked from Goblin to Antinium. Suddenly she was unsteady on her feet. Numbtongue shook his head. He pointed at Liscor.

“So they do not forget. So they cannot forget.”

And the pieces clicked. For Yellow Splatters, they fit together in a moment. It took Erin longer.

“Oh.”

She softly uttered the word. Numbtongue looked at her.

“They say Drakes saved the city. Or…they fought off the Humans. They forget. But I am here. We were here! They stop talking about Goblins! About the Redfangs, the Flooded Waters tribe. They forget. The ones in the city, who never come here. They forget. Why can I not remind them? Why can I not go there when we all died—”

His voice trailed off. That was it. It wasn’t that he needed to be there. He probably didn’t even want to go. But it was that he couldn’t. To Yellow Splatters, it was like knowing there was sky. And never being able to go above again.

The [Sergeant] considered the Hobgoblin standing across from him. He didn’t know what to say. Numbtongue’s pain wasn’t his own. His cause wasn’t Yellow Splatters'. He did not matter to the Free Antinium. And still—the Soldier slowly uncrossed his arms.

“The Antinium fought the Goblin Lord for Liscor. So did the Goblins. To not say that is a lie. We died. And we were there.”

He touched his chest with one hand and pointed two. At Numbtongue and at Erin. Her face was white, but the Goblin only nodded. He met Yellow Splatters' gaze.

“They died. All of them. You. And me. My Chieftain. Headscratcher. Shorthilt. Spiderslicer. Noears. Reiss. Pyrite.”

“Glorious Sun. Grassleaves. Six and Five. Red and White Flowers. Cold Blue.”

Yellow Splatters nodded. The Soldiers’ colors, their symbols, flashed in his mind. Numbtongue looked at him. And the Hobgoblin’s wide eyes conveyed a message without words.

You were there. You understand. You remember. Yellow Splatters nodded. He reached out, and Numbtongue clasped his hand gently. Both of them heard a small sound and turned.

Erin was crying. She wiped at her eyes as water flowed from them. It was another strange sight. Yellow Splatters stared at Erin’s face. And—strangely—he felt uncomfortable. Pained. As if the tears were hurting him. It was like looking at a wounded Soldier or Worker. He touched his chest, averted his gaze. But the pain in his chest didn’t clear. And Erin kept crying.

“I’m sorry. I know I asked you, but I—I thought—I’m sorry—”

She hiccupped and then began crying and hiccupping. Numbtongue looked at her helplessly. He shook his head as Erin turned to him.

“That’s not—”

Numbtongue looked at Yellow Splatters. The Antinium saw his mouth working, and the words came into his mind first. He looked at Erin.

“It is not grief we seek, Erin Solstice. The cost was paid. Antinium and Goblins died. But if we were faced with the same choice, we would do it again. We won.”

Numbtongue closed his mouth. A flicker of something—a smile—tugged at his expression. He nodded. Erin shook her head. She was still crying.

“I—no. No. It was—”

She broke off and kept sobbing. But the tears didn’t last. Numbtongue awkwardly patted Erin on the back. She hugged him. Yellow Splatters looked at the Goblin’s face and gently copied Numbtongue, patting her on the back. And he met Numbtongue’s eyes.

That was what they couldn’t explain to Erin. The tears matched. But he and Numbtongue had something she didn’t understand. Pride. The dead had not died in vain. All of what followed—Yellow Splatters' resolve, Numbtongue’s desire for the dead to be remembered, to enter Liscor—stemmed from that.

They had not died in vain.

Yellow Splatters kept patting Erin until she let go of Numbtongue. The young woman dried her face. She looked helplessly at them and sniffed.

“I’m sorry. I’m sorry, Numbtongue. I wasn’t thinking of how you felt.”

“It’s fine. Go lie down. Sleep.”

Numbtongue pointed to Erin’s room across from him. She wavered.

“No. I should get downstairs. Although—”

She noticed her wet apron and shirt. Numbtongue eyed her.

“Lyonette will be upset if you go down. Mrsha will howl.”

“Probably. And I guess everyone else will want to—maybe I’ll lie down. You’re sure you don’t want to talk?”

“Sure.”

The Hobgoblin smiled. Erin wavered, but he ushered her gently and insistently into the room. She eventually went, promising she’d be out in a little bit. The door closed, and Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters looked at each other. And again, they felt at ease. Yellow Splatters stepped into Numbtongue’s room, and the Goblin closed the door so they wouldn’t bother Erin.

“They can’t forget. Ever.”

He meant Liscor in the distance. It was different from Yellow Splatters. He shook his head.

“Memory matters little to the Antinium. We desire the expansion of our Hive. Revalantor Klbkch has a plan, and I am helping to carry that out. I deem it worthy. But that is not what concerns me. The Painted Soldiers. My unit. We were weak. We are weak, still. But I was given a chance to strive again. So I will—I must become stronger.”

He held Numbtongue’s gaze. The Hobgoblin clenched a fist, understanding at once.

“Strong enough for all to not die next time?”

Yellow Splatters nodded.

“Yes. That is it exactly. I have more to protect. My…people need me to be strong. So I must be strong.”

The Goblin [Bard] smiled for a second. A trace of bitterness flickered in his eyes.

“Good plan. Doesn’t work for me. Mine are dead. Or gone.”

“Then why do you stay? What keeps you moving? What reason do you have to be alive?”

The question had no rancor; it was just a question from one warrior to another. Numbtongue smiled. He pointed at the door.

“Someone has to stay. To protect…”

“Ah.”

That was the beauty. He didn’t have to explain why Erin had to live. Why her life could justify the countless dead. Yellow Splatters understood. He reached out and made a fist. Numbtongue stared at it, gently perplexed. The Soldier spoke calmly.

“It is good you remain here. You are strong. I have a strong body, gifted to me by the Free Queen. Thus, I am stronger than when I died. But I must level. That is what I intend to do. I lost all but six levels when I died. I have regained five already; I intend to reach Level 20 within the month.”

“To be strong. To be the strongest.”

Another nod. The Soldier kept his fist extended towards Numbtongue’s chest.

“I must be the strongest of them all. And make them stronger. But do it with…kindness. I failed once before. It will not happen again.”

“Good. Be strong.”

Numbtongue reached out. His own fist extended, and Yellow Splatters nodded. They bumped fists gently. Yellow Splatters regarded Numbtongue, his head tilting slightly back and forth.

“I understand now why you are here. But what will you do? Train? Level? If you wish it, it would be possible for you to fight against local threats and patrol with the Painted Antinium. Your company would be enjoyable.”

Numbtongue wavered. He was pleased at the offer, but he shook his head in the end.

“No good.”

“Why?”

Yellow Splatters was honestly confused. Numbtongue struggled to explain. The best he could do was talking about the images in his head. The inferiority he felt when he picked up a sword.

“I know a strong Goblin. The strongest. He fought the…Human. Lord Tyrion. He stopped him. He was stronger than me. And he died. How can I be that strong? I am a [Bard].”

Pyrite. Shorthilt. Headscratcher. Each had been stronger than Numbtongue. And each was dead. He wasn’t as gifted as they had been in combat. And his class…Numbtongue closed his eyes and shook his head. Yellow Splatters regarded him.

“But they are dead. You could surpass their levels in time. Does a [Bard] not become strong?”

“Not like a [Sergeant]. Or…[Warrior].”

“Really. What does your class do?”

The Hobgoblin shrugged.

“Lightning from the skies. But mostly—makes music. It helps a bit. Makes animals not bite. But it isn’t like…[Warmaster]. [Chieftain]. Or even [Savage Warrior]. Those are strong classes.”

“Really. They are not ones I am familiar with. But I do not know many classes.”

That surprised Numbtongue. He shook his head.

“I know lots. What do you have? [Sergeant]? Not a Goblin class. But could have…[Spear Soldier]. [First Sergeant]. [Captain]. At…Level 20? If you can upgrade. But [Warrior] classes are good. Sometimes better. [Sergeant] is officer. Good for leading, but sometimes weaker. Sometimes strong.”

“You know a lot about classes.”

“We had many. I was just a [Warrior]. But Garen knew many classes, and there were many in my tribe. The Redfangs wer—are strong.”

“Stronger than the Antinium. At least, individually.”

Another nod. It came from both sides. Yellow Splatters was under no illusions. He sat on Numbtongue’s chair while the Hobgoblin sat on the bed, cross-legged.

“The power of the Antinium lies in our numbers. We die by the hundreds to kill a single high-level foe. This tactic…works. But it is not acceptable. The Painted Antinium—no, all Antinium must live. And yet, how do we overcome this difficulty? The Antinium have no [Mages]. No capacity for fighting at range. At least, the Free Antinium do not. I envy your levels, Numbtongue. The Antinium are too low-level, too focused in one area. We have [Archers] now. But magic is…if we fight the Goblin Lord a second time, we will die by the hundreds or thousands to bring him down.”

That was the [Sergeant]’s nightmare. Even if they tunneled, the Goblin Lord might collapse their tunnels, use the same spells to blast apart their ranks. It terrified him. The Hobgoblin sat on his bed quietly, listening to Yellow Splatters' fears. At last, he shrugged slightly. Not out of indifference, though. He looked at Yellow Splatters.

“Do you have sneaky Antinium?”

“Sneaky Antinium?”

The [Bard] nodded.

“It’s how the Redfangs fought. We lost our [Shaman]. So we just used traps. Gold-rank Adventurers love teams with [Mages]. So we learn to attack them from one side. Ambush them—use big rocks or artifacts or sneaky Goblins to break their barriers. Then it’s easy. One arrow and—”

He mimed being struck in the chest. Yellow Splatters paused.

“I understand the Silent Antinium are a…Hive specializing in sneak attacks. But their forces are not part of the Free Antinium, or so Klbkch has explained to me. But you use traps? Belgrade makes traps. Tell me more. You are much more experienced than I.”

“Oh?”

Numbtongue was surprised. And pleased. He shrugged again, and then looked around. He went over to his desk. Erin had given him any number of things to occupy himself with. Snacks, a jar of cookies, parchment, ink, quills, a nail file—he grabbed the parchment and a quill and ink and brought it over. It was largely unused, although Yellow Splatters saw some lyrics on one sheet. Numbtongue unrolled the parchment and dipped his quill in the inkpot.

“Hm. This is how Redfangs attack [Mages]. Very easy? See? Pit trap here, archers here with cover, boulders here with slope, oh. Poison arrows. And Carn Wolf [Riders] here—and sometimes angry beehives. Or exploding things like Tripvine bags. Simple. Anyone can do. What do you want to know?”

Yellow Splatters stared at the trap. He hesitated, and then he raised three hands.

“Please explain everything.”



——



Life had its ups and downs. You didn’t win every fight. And sometimes you cried. But the trick was to keep moving. To pick yourself up again. That was why, after about forty minutes, Erin Solstice was able to leave her room and go downstairs with a smile on her face and reassure her friends. She’d had a few more tears, a handkerchief to blow her nose, and a nap. And really, it wasn’t her that she was worried about. It was Numbtongue.

She’d expected the Hobgoblin to be somewhere else. But to her surprise, he was in his room. He hadn’t even gone downstairs. Erin cautiously poked her head into the room, holding a tray with two mugs of tea.

“Heeeey, guys. How’s it going? Um—everyone okay? Sorry for going off like that. Anyone want a drink?”

Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters looked up. Erin blinked as she saw them sitting on his bed and chair. They’d dragged the table over and were gathered around it. The young woman smiled.

“Oh wow! You two are really getting along!”

“Hi.”

Numbtongue gave Erin a smile and accepted the tea. He seemed to be over his earlier frustration, and he’d clearly been absorbed by some kind of discussion with Yellow Splatters. Erin peered at the parchment as Yellow Splatters took a mug.

“Whatcha working on? Ooh, are those maps?”

“Tactics.”

Numbtongue tugged at one bit of parchment, looking slightly put upon as Erin peered around the table. She was clearly intruding. Erin made out a list of what looked like classes and Skills. And then she identified some of the drawings. Numbtongue wasn’t exactly an [Artist], and he was no [Tactician], so his picture of a Goblin stabbing an adventurer in the back was crude. But it got the point across.

Erin’s face fell a bit. She glanced up at the Goblin and Antinium.

“…You’re discussing fighting? Really? Nothing else?”

They looked at her blankly. What else would they talk about? Erin sighed, but she smiled.

“I’m glad. Hey, you could go downstairs. If you want! Or I can get you a snack.”

“I ate.”

“And I have imbibed adequate sustenance.”

“Right. Okay! Well, glad to see you two are making friends. Don’t let me bother you!”

Erin stepped back. Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters turned to look at her. After a second, Numbtongue coughed. Erin blinked.

“Oh my god. I’m my mom.”

Numbtongue blinked.

“What?”

“I have to go. Sorry. I’m cramping your style! Oh no…I’m a mom. Wait, does that mean Lyonette’s the dad? Or the bossy older sister? Am I the dad?”

Erin groaned and slapped her forehead. Completely lost, Yellow Splatters and Numbtongue exchanged a glance. But they were relieved when she was gone. It wasn’t that Erin wasn’t welcome—it was just that both were well aware of how distracting she could be. And this was serious business. They leaned over the table again. Yellow Splatters nodded.

“Back to our discussion. Survival rates among the Soldiers is typically low when encountering powerful monsters. Belgrade’s traps do work well—I will suggest the ones you use to him. We also have magical items, but I am certain Revalantor Klbkch will not allow their use.”

Numbtongue nodded.

“Can make slings, though. Slings are good.”

“Indeed. I am not sure if a Worker can swing four slings at once, but that is a viable experiment.”

Numbtongue laughed, trying to imagine that. Yellow Splatters politely smiled. They’d been discussing how to fight, and to Numbtongue’s surprise, it was actually…fun. Talking about Redfang tactics and survival strategies with someone who appreciated them. Right up until you realized they might all die in one of the scenarios they were laying out.

The Painted Antinium were certainly unlike any tribe Numbtongue had met. They could overwhelm a foe just like Goblins, but their Workers and Soldiers were all a lot stronger than the average Goblin. By the same token, though, they didn’t have strong Hobs or Chieftains, with the exception of Yellow Splatters. That complicated things, especially if your goal was to keep as many alive as possible.

Something occurred to Numbtongue as he looked at Yellow Splatters' description of the Painted Antinium’s forces. Bow unit, low-level [Soldiers]…he looked up sharply, realizing there was an obvious discrepancy besides a lack of magic users and more sneaky and ranged types.

“You know what you need?”

“What?”

Yellow Splatters leaned forwards again. He was more decisive than the Workers, but when he listened to Numbtongue, he was a very attentive student who asked a lot of questions. Numbtongue grinned and tapped his belt. Next to the small satchel holding his mined treasures was a vial. He pulled it out and showed Yellow Splatters.

“Potions. Potions are good. All your Soldiers should have potions. Redfangs use potions.”

“I am intrigued. Tell me more.”

Numbtongue gave him a blank look.

“Potions. You use them. You heal. Or get effects. Like…spitting fire. Potions are good.”

Yellow Splatters hesitated.

“The Antinium do not use potions. Ever.”

“Really? What if you get hurt?”

“We have a healing gel. That we seldom use. Soldiers have a recovery area. There they live or die.”

Numbtongue shook his head. That sounded like a poor Goblin tribe.

“Potions heal everything fast.”

“So I understand. And the Hive has a supply. A very…large supply, in fact. But Revalantor Klbkch has designated such stores off-limits except in case of war or emergency.”

“Okay. So get more.”

“How?”

“Steal? Kill adventurers? Or…buy?”

“Buy?”

The Hobgoblin nodded uncertainly. He wasn’t completely in on this concept either. But since the first two options weren’t viable around Liscor—

“Potions cost money. You have money, right?”

“I have a stipend allocated to me by Klbkch, yes.”

“Can you buy a potion with it?”

Yellow Splatters opened his mandibles slowly.

“…I have never purchased anything except for food from Miss Erin. Have you?”

“No…”

They stared at each other. Antinium and Goblins didn’t buy anything. But the thought was beguiling. And Numbtongue had seen Lyonette coming in with food that she’d bought with the shiny coins Erin gave to him. Yellow Splatters had seen the same while marching through the city.

“You have coins.”

“Yup. See?”

Numbtongue found some silver and two gold coins stuffed in his desk. Erin had paid him for guarding the inn along with the other Redfangs. They’d been keepsakes. Useless. Until now. Yellow Splatters produced his own money pouch. He poured the coins onto the table. Numbtongue stared at the bronze, silver, and gold. Yellow Splatters stared at the pile and him.

“…Is that enough for a potion?”

“Maybe? Maybe one.”

The Hobgoblin had no idea. He thought about asking Erin. Did she know how much a potion was worth? Maybe Ceria? Yellow Splatters opened his mandibles and clicked, clearing his throat.

“I could…attempt to look at some in Liscor. However, I do not know if the [Alchemists] there would allow me into their stores. Obtaining potions…that would be very useful. Very.”

Numbtongue nodded. Potions were every Goblin’s dream. You could save your life with one. Even the Redfangs, who were rich, had coveted every bottle they found. Speaking of which…Numbtongue frowned at his belt. He had two healing potions. And another stashed under his pillow. Erin had given them to him, but she’d gotten hers from—his eyes widened.

“Want to look at some? I know a place.”

“In Liscor? You are banned from the city.”

Numbtongue scowled and then suppressed it.

“No. But I think—we can go there. Follow me.”

Casually, he left his room and went downstairs. Yellow Splatters swept his and Numbtongue’s money into his pouch and followed. Erin was downstairs, serving guests. They looked at Numbtongue when he came down, but no one caused a scene this time.

“Erin. Can we go somewhere? With the door?”

Numbtongue innocently walked over to Erin. She looked around suspiciously, but when she heard what he wanted, she nodded after a moment.

“Sure. I mean, if you’re just visiting her. Don’t let her rip you off! Tell you what—the Pallass crowd’ll riot if I don’t keep the door open there. But I can let you two through and…check on you in ten minutes? Just tell Octavia that if she scams you, I’ll rip off her arm or something. Got it?”

Numbtongue nodded eagerly. He beckoned to Yellow Splatters, and Erin pushed her way towards the magic door. Lyonette looked anxious as Erin changed the door, let the Hobgoblin and Antinium through, and then came back.

“You’re sure that’s fine, Erin? Shouldn’t one of us go with them? Or at least one of the Horns?”

“It’s fine. It’s just Octavia. Numbtongue promised to stay in her shop. And I’ll head over as soon as I finish setting up the fondue. Relc’s gonna love this. Hey, Relc!”

Erin waved and turned. It was just five minutes. Ten or fifteen at most. She’d be over as soon as she finished melting the cheese in the big pot. Pisces was providing the flame, and Erin had already equipped Mrsha, Ceria, Yvlon, and Ksmvr with some long forks to dip sausage into the cheesy goodness. Relc was beaming as he rushed over with Embria following, and Erin was smiling too. She’d introduce the wonders of fondue to the inn, then pop over to Stitchworks and…deal with Octavia for a bit.

It never occurred to her to worry. Right up until her [Dangersense] started going off, that was.



——



It was past lunch in Celum. And Stitchworks, the [Alchemist]’s shop owned by Octavia Cotton, was not open. It was still closed despite the [Alchemist] being awake. She sat in her shop, and for once, she was too tired to make a sale.

She knew she had to. The day’s payment had been twelve silver. More than half a gold coin! For an [Alchemist], it was doable. But Octavia had to sell and sell well to get ahead of that. Let alone make money.

“But what’s the point? I might as well pack up rather than keep on here.”

Dully, Octavia stared at her racks of potions. The magical glow they gave off was usually enough to cheer her up. But today the colors just looked pale. Fake. Octavia was an [Alchemist]. She could see the low quality of her own potions.

She used to think she made up for quality with quantity, an affordable margin for both her customers and herself. She’d liked to imagine she was making her mark in Izril, despite the competition. Today? She wished she’d never left Chandrar.

Octavia stared at her potions. Then she stared out the boarded-up window of her shop. There were slits in the imperfect covering, but the pane of glass in her door also gave her a view of the street. She could see them out there. They were watching her.

The [Alchemist]’s eyes flicked to her shelves. To the door. Then to another door set in the back of her shop. It was a magic door. Or at least, the mana stone glittering in the doorframe was magic. But if Octavia opened the door, it would just reveal a wall. It wasn’t connected to Liscor at the moment. So she couldn’t just run through with all her gold and potions.

Even if she could, then what? Octavia shook her head. Assume she could get her gold, her equipment, and all her ingredients and wares through. She was still out the cost of her shop. Not to mention she’d have to set up in Liscor. If they even accepted String-people. And would Erin let Octavia stay? Or—if Octavia opened the door and asked, begged for help…

No. Octavia shook her head and slowly got up. She went over to her shop sign and slowly changed it. Erin wasn’t going to come to her rescue. She, Octavia, had given up on the thought. Why ask? Octavia hadn’t gotten anyone she knew to slow down and hear her out. Bad pitches, bad timing…it didn’t matter. She knew all the Gold-rank teams had left Erin’s inn anyways. And who would answer her call if she did ask? Erin? That small Gnoll, Mrsha? Lyonette? The Horns?

“Say they did take care of…”

Octavia peeked out her door again and counted. Then she shook her head. Even if they got all of them, Quelm had, what, two times that many lurking about. He’d gone mad. And it was Octavia’s fault. Well, he’d started it by stealing her designs. But…

“Can’t wriggle out of it this time, Octavia Cotton. It was a bad deal, and you knew it. You should have just let it lie. Now you’ve got to pay up. It’s just twelve silver. Every day.”

Octavia stared blankly at her shop.

“I have to move. To Remendia. Ocre. Or Esthelm. Yeah. Esthelm doesn’t have an [Alchemist], right? Or if they do, how good can they be? City gets sacked by the Goblin Lord—there’s bound to be plenty of business opportunities! I hold on, make a few preparations…Quelm’s not watching the gates, right?”

Her eyes flicked to the window, then to the magic door again. If only—

“Erin. Ten gold? I could manage that.”

It was all her savings. But if Erin swung it for her…Octavia hesitated. Ten gold wouldn’t buy enough Silver-rank teams for a fight with that many thugs. Not to mention the City Watch wasn’t getting involved. They were bought-off. Or something. Quelm had Octavia’s gold. And his sales from the matches. And…

She was sitting behind her counter. Octavia buried her head in her hands.

“I thought she liked me. A bit? I know I’m a bit pushy. But I thought Krshia—or the Horns—we have a business relationship. I’m still selling to Krshia. Surely—”

She stared down at her counter. It was swimming a bit.

“Did they all hate me that much?”

Nothing in her shop answered her. After a moment though, Octavia heard a jingle. She looked up. At least she had this. She put a smile on her face.

“Welcome to Stitchworks, friend! Can I interest you in my potions? Four silver off any first purchase and—ulp!”

She stared at the rough figure that had pushed open the door. Octavia slowly closed her mouth and sat down. The [Thug] grinned at her. He was rough-shaven and smelled of sweat.

“Morning, Miss Octavia.”

“Ah. H-hello. How’re things? Checking in on the shop? I paid today, you know. Promptly and on time! There’s no need for…”

Octavia could normally out-talk anyone she met. But the words dried up as the man looked around her shop. She could see the long knife at his belt. But that wasn’t what terrified her. String-people didn’t fear knives. It was fire she feared. Fire and those who caused it.

“Looks like you haven’t got much business. Alchemist Quelm’s concerned.”

“Is—is he? Well, you can assure him that I’ll get him his money.”

Esthelm. She could move tonight if she found a good [Wagon Driver]. And if they weren’t watching her shop. The [Thug] looked around and shrugged.

“So you say. But he’s concerned. And since he’s so worried, he sent me and some of the guys around to help you sell.”

For a second, Octavia was confused. Was Quelm mad? Did he think this would be a good [Shop Assistant]? She stared as the [Thug] went over to one of her shelves of potions.

“Help me sell? He really doesn’t need to—hey! Wait! What are you doing?”

The [Thug] was grabbing bottles off the shelf. Octavia rushed around her counter.

“No! Those are mine! Here, you want the next payment? I can make it! Tell Quelm—”

She grabbed at her money drawer and realized it was locked. The [Thug] just shook his head. He grinned at her, exposing bright, well-kept teeth. Octavia felt they should have been rotten or replaced by gold.

“Alchemist Quelm has decided there’s a new deal. You’ll be selling your potions through his store. You’ll get your cut—but everything goes through him, got it?”

He grabbed an armful of bottles. Octavia couldn’t take it.

“No! That’s my merchandise! If he takes that—”

Her income was liquid. Literally; more money was in the potions waiting to be sold than anywhere in her shop, even her safe. The [Thug] raised a fist as Octavia grabbed at him, and she flinched.

“Don’t. We’re taking all of these today. Damn, we’ll need a wheelbarrow or something. I’m not carrying them. You’ll get two-thirds—Alchemist Quelm gets a third. And he won’t even charge you a daily fee anymore. Isn’t that fair?”

“He—that—”

Octavia gulped for air. The world was swimming. If Quelm did that, she’d lose far more than twelve silver every day. A third of her profits? He’d be the only [Alchemist] selling in the city, and she’d be unable to run. Both she and Quelm and the [Thug] knew it. He gave her another pearly smile.

“You can’t do this. This is too far. Quelm—I know we had our grudges, but this is robbery. I’ll go to the City Watch if you take my potions. I’ll testify under truth spell! I have friends in Liscor too. I go through that door—”

Octavia’s voice shook. The [Thug] turned to her. His eyes narrowed. Suddenly, deliberately, he dropped his armful of potions.

“No—”

Too late. Octavia grabbed one bottle, but the rest smashed on the floor. Horrified, she stared as four stamina potions and three healing potions mixed on the floor. That was—at least three gold’s worth of—she looked up as a boot smashed the glass shards flat. The [Thug] drew his knife with a snarl.

“And what? You tell the Watch or you go through that door and your store won’t last till morning. Neither will you. We’re in charge now, not some [Guardsmen]. Or didn’t you hear what happened to Jeffil?”

Octavia froze, the last potion in her hands. She backed up.

“I heard. But—but—”

The [Thug] grinned unpleasantly.

“Too bad String-people can just replace their arms, right? Don’t make us make an example of you. Be smart. Mabel the ‘Magnificent’ is smart. She’s working for Alchemist Quelm. You’ve got one chance to make the right move. Either you agree right now or—”

He broke off. Octavia heard a sudden roar of sound and jumped. A familiar voice rang out in her shop!

“Okay! Ten minutes! Remember, stay inside!”

The [Thug] swore and ducked back. Octavia turned. The door to Erin’s inn was open! Her heart leapt, but the warning growl behind her made her tense up. And the door was closing as soon as it opened. Octavia opened her mouth—and then choked when she saw who was coming through the door. A Hobgoblin and—

“What the hell is that?”

The [Thug] hissed at Octavia. Frozen, the [Alchemist] stared at Yellow Splatters and then looked around.

“An Antinium Soldier. And that’s…Numbtongue.”

“That’s a Hob! A flipping Hobgoblin!”

The man seemed afraid, which pleased Octavia. She hesitated, looking at Numbtongue. He glanced at her and waved.

“We want to look at things.”

“Uh, okay! I mean, great! Pleased to have you here! And your friend! I’ll be over in a second!”

Octavia smiled nervously. Her eyes flicked to the [Thug]. He glared at her. Slowly, he edged back to her door and caught himself. He leaned over to Octavia and hissed.

“We’ll finish this later. Get them to go away.”

The Stitch-girl hesitated. The [Thug] caught her arm, squeezing it tight.

“Say anything and we’ve got fourteen people outside your shop. Don’t be stupid. I’ll be right here.”

He bared his teeth. Octavia’s heart sank. She saw him go to the door and wave his hand urgently. Damn. If there weren’t more—she hurried over to Numbtongue.

“Hey, Numbtongue, right? Good to see you!”

The Hobgoblin eyed the [Alchemist]’s smile warily. He sniffed the air and frowned. Then he leaned around her and spotted the puddle of potions. His eyes widened. Octavia glanced at him and then the [Thug].

“Oh, that? Don’t worry about it. Minor spill. What can I do for you? Is, uh, Erin—”

“In her inn. She’ll come later. We want to buy a potion. We have…money.”

Numbtongue waved vaguely at the Antinium Soldier. Octavia backed up a step as she saw the Soldier towering over her. Was it her or was this fellow big even for an Antinium?

“Uh—well, uh—a Soldier? I’m happy to sell to all customers, but how do I know what he wants? What you want? Does he have a name?”

Too late, Octavia remembered. You weren’t supposed to ask Antinium their names! She froze, but the Soldier nodded and opened his mandibles.

“Yellow Splatters. I was reborn and given a voice. I am looking to purchase as many potions as possible for this amount of money.”

He opened his money pouch. Octavia’s jaw dropped at the gold and silver glittering there. She could sell—her eyes darted to the [Thug].

“Great! I mean, wonderful! I—I can definitely sell you whatever you need. And hey, did you say Erin’s coming through?”

“In a bit. What’s this?”

Numbtongue replied absently. Octavia glanced at the potion he was indicating.

“Pepperspray Potion. Uh—listen, Numbtongue—”

“Miss Octavia! You’re gonna close up shop soon, right?”

The [Thug] called out from where he was standing. Octavia’s heart sank. He was eying her as he pretended to browse the shelves. And fingering the dagger on his belt. She looked at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin had a frown on his face as he looked at the [Thug]. Octavia inhaled.

She could tell him. But what if he said no? If it was Ceria or Pisces or Yvlon—not Ksmvr—she might have risked it. But she could see more people slowly advancing down the street. And Numbtongue? The Hobgoblin? Weakly, Octavia realized that the [Thug] was going to make her chase out Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters. And Erin too.

Erin. Oh no. If she came by and started a fight, he’d knife her. This wasn’t any tough. They’d crippled Jeffil. And they were going to take her potions. How many did he say there were? Fifteen? Octavia looked at Numbtongue. The Soldier. Then she thought of Erin. If Erin got into a fight and they drew their weapons—

The sigh that escaped the [Alchemist]’s mouth was slow and long. She wiped her eyes across her stained sleeve once. That was all. Then she gave Numbtongue a big smile.

“Actually, you came here just in time, Numbtongue. I’m doing a clearance sale. Reorganizing my stock. Whatever you want—it’s half-off. Tell me what you need, and I’ll get it to you.”

The Hobgoblin did a double-take. So did the Soldier. Numbtongue looked at her suspiciously.

“Really? Is this a…trick?”

Octavia had to admit that she’d never done a sale like that without some kind of trick. But today she just spread her hands wide.

“Nope! Let me get you your potions. I think Erin’ll have to wait on coming through; let’s do business before she gets here. Okay?”

“Are you sure?”

The Hobgoblin’s response was so normal that Octavia wavered. She looked over her shoulder. And she tried to think of a code, something he could relay to Erin. But she was sure that the [Thug] would pick up on anything obvious like that.

“Just grand, Numbtongue. Just grand. What can I do for you?”

The Hobgoblin exchanged a glance with the Soldier. Octavia could have sworn she saw the Soldier’s antennae do some weird twitching. But it didn’t matter. She’d sell them everything she could just to spite Quelm. And then let the gang take her goods. Then leave Celum or…she looked at Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters. They looked strong. Stronger than the [Thug]. But there were a lot of thugs outside.

And she didn’t have anything to offer them. Even if she could warn them. It wasn’t a good deal for them. So Octavia bit her lip and smiled.

“Come on. Time’s money. What do you want?”



——



There was someone else watching Stitchworks. The [Enforcer]. The [Nightstalker], and her [Blackguard] escort. They sat in the little bakery café. It had been a few hours, but they’d bought enough snacks and drinks to keep the [Baker]’s assistant quite happy to let them stay as long as they wanted.

They’d been good for gossip too. The polite, well-mannered man with the hat who’d tipped well had asked any number of questions about Liscor and the magic door that the [Baker]-in-training had been only too happy to talk about.

Now they were watching the door as she reluctantly helped her master, who was actually a mistress, prepare dough in the kitchen. At the table, the [Nightstalker], who’d been sitting and slowly drinking the hours by while gnashing her teeth, suddenly swore and sat up.

“Fucking rotted Ghoul dicks. What the hell is that?”

Even surprised, she was too professional to point at the [Alchemist]’s shop. Nor did she need to. The [Enforcer] and the [Blackguard] had seen the same thing. The [Blackguard] checked his blades. The [Enforcer] just tipped up his cap and sat up.

“Well, that’s not something you see every day.”

“It’s fucking insanity. What the hell’s going on in Liscor? No—where does that damn door lead?”

The [Enforcer] winced at the [Nightstalker]’s language. But he didn’t take his eyes off the strange pair who’d entered the [Alchemist]’s shop. He stared at the green Goblin and the insect-man as they wandered about the shop.

“I believe it’s a Hobgoblin. And that other one is…an Antinium Soldier.”

The [Nightstalker] settled back in her chair, but only slightly. She was gripping the stilettos concealed in her dress.

“They came at the wrong time. That [Thug] was just about to wrap up that shop with his gang.”

The [Enforcer] nodded quietly. It hadn’t been too interesting to see. Predictably, this Alchemist Quelm had sent a gang in to make sure his competition didn’t fly the coop as it were. Taking their goods and selling them through his store was a classic move that hadn’t impressed the [Enforcer] or the [Nightstalker]. But now a wrinkle had entered the plan. A very big wrinkle with four arms and another one with green skin and glowing eyes.

“Hobs. Fucking Hobs walking about in daylight.”

“I heard there were some in Liscor.”

That didn’t come from the [Enforcer]. It was the first words the [Blackguard] had spoken. The man must have been rattled to break his silence. The [Nightstalker] glanced at the man and glared.

“It doesn’t change things. But maybe they’re our marks. Who knows? You see anything?”

She was clearly expecting the answer to be ‘no’. But the [Blackguard] leaned forwards.

“Yes. I do.”

“What?”

The woman sat forwards. Now her eyes were fixed on the two. She glanced at the [Enforcer] and leaned over to the [Blackguard]. He whispered urgently to her, and her eyes widened. She kept her voice low, shielding her mouth, but the [Enforcer] wasn’t looking at her. He was adjusting his cap and sniffing the air. A foul odor drifted towards him.

“Well, this is a right mess.”

He muttered to himself and reached for something concealed at his side. A bit of leather and lead, that was all. Inside the shop, the Hob and Soldier were wandering about, peering at bottles. The [Enforcer] could see them through the door and the boarded up window, moving about. The [Nightstalker] narrowed her eyes. She had a better vision Skill than he did; she could clearly see through the boards of wood.

“That idiot [Thug]’s still there with the Stitch-girl [Alchemist].”

“Probably to make sure she doesn’t run. Not that she’d abandon her shop. That’s her livelihood.”

The [Enforcer] commented. The [Nightstalker] nodded, her enmity with him forgotten. Her painted nails drummed on the table. She glanced down the street. More people were moving towards the shop. The [Enforcer] grimaced; he saw the gang he’d met that morning drifting towards Stitchworks, as subtle as a cow walking through a brothel. The [Nightstalker] bared her teeth.

“Look. The Hob’s noticed the gang outside. See the way he’s looking over the shelves? So’s that bug. What’re they going to do?”

“Interfere?”

The [Enforcer] frowned. He could see the [Alchemist] tagging along besides the Hob, clearly offering him a potion. Was she trying to get rid of him? From the way the [Thug] was glaring, he’d made a threat. Get rid of them so we can take your inventory. The [Enforcer] shook his head. Classless. Embarrassingly rude. Unconscionable, even. He itched to intervene. But he had a job, and that was to watch.

The [Nightstalker] was eying the dozen plus men and women now loitering about Stitchworks. They were clearing the street; the passersby could smell trouble. They’d probably already seen Quelm’s thugs shaking down the [Alchemist] before. She snorted.

“It’s not their fight. Two versus fifteen? And I saw a second gang close by. Looks like that Quelm has people looking for us after I stabbed that idiot. Would you take those odds?”

The [Enforcer] didn’t reply. But he knew even the [Nightstalker] and her [Blackguard] bodyguard would have hesitated if the fifteen had shown some teeth in the alleyway this morning. They might be low-level, but numbers were enough in a fight. A knife between the ribs was all it took, if you didn’t have the right Skills or magical equipment.

“They might have numbers, but it looks like they’re spooked by the Antinium and Hobgoblin.”

“Amateurs.”

The [Nightstalker] sneered. The gang was right outside the shop, giving the nervous [Thug] inside visible support. He looked relieved and began haranguing the [Alchemist] inside the shop. She stepped back to argue with him, pointing at the Hob and Soldier. The [Enforcer] cursed and craned his head to see.

The odd duo were talking, staring at a potion and occasionally looking at the [Thug] and at the gang outside. They were clearly aware of something, but how much the [Enforcer] couldn’t say. He’d known…well, Goblins were unpredictable sometimes. And he’d never met Antinium. The sight of that Soldier made his skin crawl. But then the [Enforcer] saw the [Thug] reach his breaking point.

Inside the shop, the [Alchemist] was arguing with the man. He, impatient with her, nervous of the two strange creatures, did what came naturally to a man like him. As Octavia Cotton pointed at the magic door, he lost his temper and struck her across the face. It was a light blow, but Octavia went stumbling back, clutching at her cheek.

The Hobgoblin and Soldier looked up. For a second, everyone, the gang outside, the [Thug], the [Enforcer], and the [Nightstalker] and [Blackguard] tensed. The Hob looked at Octavia, blinked, and then pointed at the bottle in his claws. The Soldier nodded, and they went back to talking. They didn’t move, and Octavia raised two placating hands as the [Thug] shouted something at her.

The [Nightstalker] snorted.

“They’re smart at least. Do we really have to watch this no-name [Alchemist] get shaken down, or can we—”

The [Nightstalker] broke off, eying the [Enforcer]’s face. The [Blackguard] turned in his chair to eye the Brother as well. The [Enforcer] slowly tugged the hat lower on his head.

“I’m going to stroll closer.”

He stood up. He’d already paid for his food, so he left the table and the Sister of Chell behind. Slowly, the [Enforcer] strolled down the street. Inside the shop, Octavia was placating the [Thug]. And it seemed the Hobgoblin and Soldier had made their decision. The Hobgoblin was showing a glowing, green and blue bottle to her, and she was nodding.

The [Thug] stepped back, practically trembling with adrenaline, as the Hob walked past him to the counter with the [Alchemist]. The Soldier stayed where he was, next to the door. The Hobgoblin turned as he passed the [Thug] and pointed to the bottle. The [Thug] recoiled and snapped something.

The [Enforcer] slowed as he saw the Hobgoblin raise the bottle and smile. It was a toothy, big smile that exposed his teeth. And his crimson eyes widened. He turned back to the counter as the [Thug] backed up. Then he whirled and smashed the glass bottle into the [Thug]’s face.

The sound of the glass breaking was audible from outside the shop. The [Thug] stumbled back, clawing at his face, as the potion ran into his cut flesh. The Hob inspected the man’s face. Then he grabbed the man by the collar.

The [Enforcer] saw a blur of motion. He cursed and accelerated, casually walking towards the group of low-level criminals outside. They were staring into the shop, looking at each other. The [Enforcer] heard a shout from inside.

“Numbtongue, wait—”

The next thing the [Enforcer] saw was the body of the [Thug] flying through the boarded up window. He landed on the ground in a shower of wood and splinters, face bleeding. His friends recoiled. The door to Stitchworks slowly opened, and the Hobgoblin walked out. He strode over to the [Thug], who was lying on the paving stones. The man tried to get up, gasping, his lungs and chest malfunctioning. The Hob regarded him. Then he waved at someone in the shop.

“You stay there.”

He turned and stomped on the man’s chest. The [Thug] screamed. His friends grabbed their weapons. And the Hobgoblin turned around. Fourteen Humans surrounded him. They had knives, clubs, a spiked mace, even a sword. He had his bare hands, two potions at his belt, and a small sack at his waist. No weapons. The [Enforcer] sniffed the air and smelled for death. He saw the Hobgoblin grin. After a second, so did the man.



——



There was no point to this fight. No benefit. Numbtongue raised his fists as the shouting Humans surrounded him. They were screaming, asking questions, making threats. As if they hadn’t seen him just throw their friend out Octavia’s window. They were clearly amateurs. When you saw an enemy, you didn’t shout at him. Numbtongue spun.

Instead, you did this. He lunged at the nearest Human, a man, and grabbed his arm. The fellow had a club and recoiled. He tried to yank away, but Numbtongue had his club arm. He raised his other hand to punch. Numbtongue was faster. He hit the man across the nose and heard something crunch. He stumbled back, screaming, and Numbtongue took careful aim with his knee.

The crunch was the sound of Numbtongue’s knee hitting the man’s groin. Perhaps the man had had some kind of protective leather cup there. Either way, it was now part of his genitalia. Numbtongue let go of him, and the man dropped, clutching at his privates.

“Dead gods! He got Blaikil!”

“Get him! It’s one Hob!”

The Humans were screaming at each other. Numbtongue swung around and saw the first one move. He dodged backwards as a knife swung at his stomach and grabbed the arm attached to it. His claws dug into the skin, and whoever was holding the knife screamed and dropped it. That was sloppy. Numbtongue belted the Human woman in the stomach and jumped back as she threw up. He looked for the knife—

And someone slammed into him from the side. The Hobgoblin went tumbling as a huge man struck him a blow across the face and kicked at him. Numbtongue rolled, sprang to his feet, and grabbed the leg as it hit him in the chest. He growled and twisted the leg until he heard something go pop.

The scream this time was rewarding. The man fell, clutching his leg. But another swung, and Numbtongue felt a spiked club tear across his chest. A tearing pain made him back up, shielding his face. The spikes tore at his arm, and the [Bandit] hollered.

“I’ve got him! Stab the monster! Stab him—”

His friends charged Numbtongue. Six on one. The Hobgoblin fell back, cursing. It wasn’t a good fight. They might be unprepared. They might be lower-level. But there were so many. Why take this fight? Why do it at all?

Octavia had nothing to offer Numbtongue. Nothing he couldn’t buy at another shop. And the trouble of saving her wasn’t worth it. Not to the [Alchemist]. Or the [Enforcer] or [Nightstalker] or gang. It didn’t make sense to them. But it did to Numbtongue.

Sometimes it wasn’t about what someone had to offer. Or about how useful a person was. It wasn’t about value or cost. If you thought like that, people became numbers. And if you gave people value, what value had Goblins? If that were so, Erin Solstice would never have given a Goblin food. Or asked a Worker’s name.

As the gang swarmed Numbtongue, the door to Stitchworks opened a second time. The men and women closest to the door looked up as it opened. They stared and screamed. The rest turned as a huge shape barreled out of the door.

It had taken Yellow Splatters eight seconds to walk around the shop without bumping into anything. Now the Antinium charged. His fist took the man with the spiked club in the face. The man spun—the other three fists lashed out, pummeling the Human. Yellow Splatters turned, and his hands grabbed a Human [Thief]. He lifted the screaming man overhead and threw him on the ground.

The gang stared at their friend as he fell. They listened to the sound he made as he landed. He didn’t move. Yellow Splatters looked around, and his mandibles opened wide. His deep voice boomed as Numbtongue set himself behind the Antinium.

“Flee. Or stand and suffer.”

The Humans wavered. They looked up at him. A giant, a black-brown insect from the nightmares of Rhir. A Soldier. And behind him, a monster that grinned with glowing red eyes.

Goblins and Antinium really didn’t count cost. Erin had never counted the cost of kindness. You did what you did. And that usually involved hitting things.

Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters charged with a roar that shook the street. Two against eleven. The Hobgoblin leapt and kicked a man in the chest, ignoring the sword that slashed at his side. His blood hit the street as he and the man fell. The Human reached for the sword—Numbtongue kicked him in the face as hard as he could. The man’s head snapped back and made a gurgling sound. But it wasn’t enough to kill. Numbtongue saw a confusion of legs as he rolled.

Up. He had to get—someone rammed into him from the side, a knife stabbing. Numbtongue felt it hit his gut twice. He sucked in, but the pain wasn’t even registering. To the woman’s horror, he caught the bloody knife with one claw, ignoring the way it cut his palm. He tightened his grip as she tried to pull away.

“Dull.”

Numbtongue informed her before he put a thumb in her eye. Screaming, the woman let go and Numbtongue tossed the knife aside. Any blade he could grab that hard without losing his fingers was dull. It had still gotten his stomach. The Hobgoblin reached for his belt and saw someone swinging at his chest. He raised an arm and felt the impact as a [Highwayman] hit him with a cudgel. The man gaped, and Numbtongue kicked him in the groin as he grabbed a potion. It was a winning tactic.

The Hobgoblin didn’t bother to uncork the vial. He tossed it into his mouth and chomped. Shards of glass splintered, cutting his mouth, but the cuts began to heal as the potion flowed down his throat. Carefully, looking around, Numbtongue held the shards with his tongue and spat them in the face of the next Human he saw.

This was a fight. This was a fight! The Humans were everywhere. And though they outnumbered Numbtongue, he was not alone. Behind him, Yellow Splatters had his back to Octavia’s shop. He looked around as six Humans came at him at once. A man stabbed at him with a long-handled knife, and the blade sunk into the [Sergeant]’s carapace. A few inches. Then the poor metal snapped.

Casually, Yellow Splatters backhanded the man with one of his four arms. Then he turned as another man charged him with a yell. The Soldier swung left with two arms into the man’s chest and stomach, and then right, hitting a woman across her scarred face and belly. Both Human’s bodies made dull, heavy sounds, and their feet left the ground. When they landed, they crumpled into heaps.

“[Power Strike]!”

Someone struck Yellow Splatters from behind. This time, the Soldier’s carapace cracked as a fellow with brass knuckles delivered two powerful blows into his back. But aside from a green trickle that began to run from the cracked spots, the Soldier barely staggered. The [Brawler] paled as Yellow Splatters turned.

“Five Families save—”

All four of Yellow Splatters' arms shot out. Two grabbed the [Brawler]’s fists. The other two began battering the man in the face and chest. After five seconds, Yellow Splatters let go. He turned around, and the other Humans backed up.

“Antinium.”

Someone whispered it. The Soldier nodded. He looked at the weapons the street gang held. They were deadly in Celum. A club with spikes, a sword, a few daggers—they were good against Humans. Drakes. Gnolls and Goblins even. But the Antinium had been built for war.

“Come or flee. It makes no difference to me.”

He raised his fists and advanced. The others pulled back. Numbtongue, seeing Yellow Splatters advance slowly, shouted a warning.

“Dodge!”

The Soldier glanced at him. Then he twisted. Too late—the vial exploded, and half of Yellow Splatters' body was aflame! The Soldier made no sound, but instantly dropped and rolled. But the vial had been sticky oil. The flames refused to go out, and the Humans swarmed the Antinium, kicking and beating at him.

“Off!”

Numbtongue leapt at the nearest one. The man turned and screamed as Numbtongue grabbed his arm, ready to break it. The Hobgoblin twisted and then felt an arm descend around his throat. He twisted—but too late. The man tightened his arm in a chokehold. Numbtongue gasped, staggering forwards, and the man shouted.

“I’ve got it! Stab it—stab—”

He shrieked, clutching at his arm and letting go of the chokehold. His friends stared at the huge chunk of flesh missing, gushing blood. Numbtongue spat the flesh and grinned with bloody teeth. He turned, head butted the man, and heard a nose break again. Then he punched.

One rib. Three. The man gurgled and fell down. Numbtongue looked around as he grabbed Yellow Splatters and hauled him to his feet. The Soldier came up, wiping at the liquid. He clicked, and Numbtongue grabbed for his other potion.

“Drink!”

The Antinium grabbed at the vial. Numbtongue whirled. There were…seven Humans left. They backed away as he bared his bloody teeth at them. They had wide eyes, and they were panting despite only having fought for—what, a minute? Less?

They could do this. Yellow Splatters and Numbtongue. Despite the numbers. The Humans weren’t ready for this fight! They might have killed once or twice, but they hadn’t fought in the battles Numbtongue had. They weren’t prepared for his ferocity or his willingness to do anything to win. Or Yellow Splatters’ strength, for that matter.

But they did outnumber the two. Only six or seven now, maybe, but Numbtongue knew how this fight worked—he’d been on the other side of it countless times before. One high-level adventurer versus dozens of Goblins. He might cut them down, but if one managed to land a blow, or if he fell, he was dead. He raised his fists, looking around. If they could retreat into Octavia’s shop—grab some more potions—

Then ten more masked Humans ran around the street corner. And they were holding bared blades and clubs. One stopped when he saw Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters, but the man who’d run to grab them screamed.

“That’s them! Get them! Backup’s on the way!”

Seventeen Humans advanced. Nervously, but in concert. Numbtongue growled, and Yellow Splatters, the flames on his carapace still burning, looked about.

“The alchemist’s fire—”

“Back. Backs to the shop.”

The Hobgoblin and Soldier backed up. The Humans chased them. Only two had what looked like throwing weapons. Numbtongue ducked, and Yellow Splatters blocked a throwing knife with one arm. It glanced off his armor, and another Human heaved a brick. It shattered on the Antinium’s other arm.

No more alchemist weapons. But some of the Humans were tending to their friends with potions! Numbtongue cursed.

“Them!”

He pointed. Yellow Splatters didn’t ask questions. The two charged, scattering the Humans before they could revive their friends. Numbtongue grabbed at a potion, twisted an arm out of its socket. Took a fist to the face. He snarled, kicked out, and hit a Human in the groin. It was a woman, so she didn’t fall down from that alone. A second kick to the same spot dislocated her hip.

Numbtongue whirled, dodging another knife. He grabbed the arm and swung his elbow as hard as he could into the face that followed when he yanked. He cursed as he looked for Yellow Splatters, twisting out of the way of another Human and throwing him into his friends. This wasn’t how Redfangs fought! They outnumbered their enemies! And Numbtongue hadn’t brought his sword or his guitar.

He felt two—three pairs of hands grab him from behind. Cursing, the Hobgoblin struck backwards, but they were holding him still. In front of him, a Human with a crossbow was aiming it. Real weapons. Numbtongue struggled as the man sighted, ignoring the peril to his comrades. He aimed at Numbtongue’s stomach—and a Human man standing next to him lifted the bolt out of the bow. The [Crossbowman] gaped—and the [Enforcer] stabbed the tip of the bolt into the [Crossbowman]’s chest and twisted.

The hands holding Numbtongue slackened for a moment in surprise. Numbtongue twisted, saw the first Human, leaned over, and bit. The screaming woman clutched at her shoulder. The other Humans started back too late. Numbtongue yanked a head down into his knee and turned around. The man who’d stabbed the [Crossbowman] stepped past the downed archer; the crossbow was busted, having been slammed into the man’s chest until both bones and frame broke. He tipped his cap to Numbtongue and smiled.

“Pardon me, sirs. Saw you were in a bit of a scrap. And I’m afraid my fellows wouldn’t forgive me letting this rude lot go.”

So saying, he drew the object at his side and turned. An outraged [Footpad] with a garroting wire staggered back, and Numbtongue saw his nose was broken. The [Enforcer] adjusted his cap and then stepped forwards smartly.

He was quick. And as ruthless as any Goblin. The man stomped, broke the screaming [Footpad]’s foot, and knocked him flat with a blow from the leather sap he carried. Numbtongue stared as the [Enforcer] turned around.

“Back.”

Numbtongue whirled, and his elbow caught a woman across the head. She went down in a moment. Absently, the Hob grabbed a man and put him in a chokehold, keeping him in front of the man’s buddies while he watched the mysterious Human set to the people around him. What was he carrying?

A sap. It was a bit of leather filled with something heavy, extending the [Enforcer]’s reach by only a hand’s length. It wasn’t a tool any Goblin would use. But here? On these streets? The [Enforcer]’s hands were almost too quick to see! He was striking people with the sap multiple times each second, elbow, arm, fingers, jaw—he stepped back as a burly man swung past him with a cleaver. The Brother raised his sap and stepped into the man with the cleaver’s guard.

“[Shatter Blows].”

His sap struck the helpless [Rogue] across the chest, the arm, the face. Numbtongue could hear bones breaking with each strike. The [Rogue] fell down. Numbtongue realized the Human he was holding was unconscious. He let go, ducked a swing, grabbed a leg, yanked up. It was easy to kick the Human on the ground.

Someone came at Numbtongue from behind, but they disappeared. Numbtongue whirled. And Yellow Splatters tossed the Human aside. Numbtongue looked up at the Soldier. He saw Yellow Splatters turn.

“Cover me.”

And Numbtongue did. The moments blurred together. He stood with his back to Yellow Splatters, shouting.

“Redfang!”

Then it was like how he remembered fighting. The Humans were everywhere. But his friend was at his back. Numbtongue spun, kicking, grabbing for a weapon. A club—he swung it, and the wooden club locked with a sword trying to take his chest.

More Humans! Numbtongue didn’t know where they’d come from. Suddenly, there were twenty around him! Yellow Splatters guarded with two arms, swinging with blows that lifted men and women off their feet and put them on the ground. But he was too big a target. Someone threw a bag, and vines showered him and Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin fought clear, and a mace caught him on the side of the head.

Reeling, he nearly tipped over. The [Brigand] tried to finish him off, and a potion exploded in his face. He clutched at his eyes as a Pepperspray potion detonated. More Humans scrambled clear, but there were even more of them as Numbtongue got up. Yellow Splatters moved back, guarding the shop as Octavia hurled potions out of her window. Numbtongue swung his club and hit something.

But they were losing? No. Yes. The [Enforcer] spun past him, dodging four people at once, his hat clean. But he’d taken a knife to the side. Numbtongue glanced around.

So many Humans. Where did they keep coming from? He looked down at the club in his hands and realized he was bleeding. He felt at his side. An arrow stood out.

“Ow.”

The [Bard] grinned weakly. The Humans were closing in. He looked back at the shop.

“Numbtongue!”

Yellow Splatters roared as he threw another Human. But he was cornered, his carapace bleeding. Three versus twenty had been done. Three versus thirty was possible. But forty?

Numbtongue was surrounded. A [Warrior] with a sword advanced, and Numbtongue saw four more Humans closing around from each side. The Redfang Warrior bared his teeth.

“It’s just one Hob. Kill it.”

Shakily, one of the Humans breathed. Numbtongue stared at him. But it was true. Numbtongue was just a Hob. Not Headscratcher. Not Shorthilt. If either had been wielding this club—Numbtongue blocked a slash from the [Warrior]. He staggered, slipping. Someone jumped in, stabbed Numbtongue along the shoulder, darted out. The Hobgoblin twisted his head, took a punch from a pair of brass knuckles.

If only I was Headscratcher. If only he were Pyrite. The other Goblin’s memories surged in his head. He’d fought Eater of Spears. He’d hurt Reiss! He’d stopped Tyrion Veltras. He could have won this fight. With fat. With strength. With skill. He would have seen them coming. The sword flashed at Numbtongue’s face.

Pyrite would have ducked forwards.

Numbtongue knew it. He ducked forwards, and the blade flashed over his head. But because he was moving, the Human [Warrior] actually ran into him. He tried to bring the sword down, but Numbtongue was under his arms. The Hobgoblin rose, staring at the sword.

Good sword. Pyrite would have taken it. How? Oh—

Another bite. This time down to the bone. Numbtongue felt a wrench as the [Warrior] yanked his arm free, screaming. But he’d loosened his grip on his sword. Numbtongue seized it. He eyed the blade.

Iron. Not too sharp. But decent. What would Pyrite say? Not good. But okay. The [Warrior] grabbed at a dagger. Someone charged Numbtongue. A dagger for his back. And Pyrite—

In the street, a Goblin turned. With one hand, he swung the iron sword in an arc. He brought it down, and the hand stabbing towards his back fell to the ground. The Human stared at his stump. Then he clutched at his arm and screamed.

In a dream, Numbtongue gazed with interest at the Human. He looked at the sword, impressed. That was a good cut. As good as any Shorthilt could have made. He didn’t know how to do that.

And yet—he did. The Hobgoblin turned, and both of his claws grasped the sword’s hilt. He took a stance. A proper one, not like the self-taught [Warrior]’s fighting style he’d learned as a Redfang. The [Warrior] with the dagger backed up too slow. The Hob slashed his chest, leapt back, twisted, and cut. A second Human lost her hand, this time at the elbow.

The street—slowed. The gang of Humans backed up. Yellow Splatters, shielding his face, bleeding from a dozen injuries as Octavia tried to heal him, saw a Goblin turn. Numbtongue’s face was dreamy. But his sword swung in patterns and arcs, measured, warding his back and sides. And fingers flew. Hands cut down to the bone. Iron sheared through arm. Until the Humans were running.

Numbtongue cast aside the ruined iron blade. The edge was deformed from the last sword strike. A final Human charged him, not realizing her friends were running. She had blood in her eyes—literally. But his memories, both his and Pyrite’s, told him she was a high-level [Fighter]. Her brass knuckles had spikes on them—she’d gotten the [Enforcer]. The Hobgoblin looked down at his torn left arm, exposing sinew. And him.

The [Bard] might have hesitated, grabbed at the sword. But part of him said look. Numbtongue looked. He saw the woman’s muscles moving along her arm and saw where she’d punch. Numbtongue stepped back, and the tips of the knuckles struck the side of his face. Then he stepped in.

His punch went through the gap in the woman’s guard. She stumbled back, and Numbtongue followed it with a left hook. Stumbling, the woman retreated. He advanced, swinging, kicking.

Don’t give her a second! Left hook, kick, elbow, punch, head butt, kick to the chest, punch, punch, punch—he swung a fist and missed. The Human was lying on the ground, her eyes rolled up in her head.

“Dead gods.”

Someone breathed it behind him. Numbtongue turned. The street was filled with bodies. The [Ruffian] dropped his shiv as Numbtongue looked at him. The Hobgoblin’s eyes burned. The man screamed and ran. Numbtongue caught him halfway down the street.

“Let me go! Let me go!”

The man was screaming, calling to his friends. Numbtongue turned the man to face him. The man grabbed at his side for something—he stopped when Numbtongue made a fist.

“Who sent them?”

He pointed down the street. The last of the gang was running as the [Enforcer] drank a potion. The [Ruffian]’s eyes were wide, the unkempt man’s face white.

“You can speak?”

Numbtongue shook the man so hard his bones rattled. The Hobgoblin spoke again impatiently.

“Who. Sent. You?”

“A-Alchemist Quelm! He sent us! He hired us! Go after him!”

“No.”

The [Ruffian] blinked, uncertain. Numbtongue made a fist.

“Tell him if he tries again, we will hurt him. That is a Goblin threat. Understand? See this?”

He waved the fist under the [Ruffian]’s nose. The man was nodding, relieved.

“I’ll tell him. I’ll t—”

Numbtongue aimed at the man’s jaw. He punched the man in the teeth and felt them cut into his fist—and felt six of them break. He shook out his clawed hand, grimacing. Then he picked up the man screaming into what remained of his teeth.

“Goblins don’t make threats. Run.”

He let go, and the man ran. Numbtongue looked around the street. Amazingly, no Humans had died in the fight. Some were dying thanks to the blood leaving their body from the stumps of their arms and hands, but no one was dead. Yet. There was a remarkable amount of screaming. Numbtongue wandered back to the shop. Yellow Splatters looked up at Numbtongue as the Hobgoblin walked over.

“Potion.”

“Who—oh, dead gods!”

Octavia poked her head out of the shop. She ran back inside and grabbed a bottle, threw it at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin caught it, opened it vaguely, and drank.

“Thanks.”

He looked down and saw a dozen injuries on his body closing. It occurred to him he might have been close to dying of blood-loss. Looking at Yellow Splatters, the Hobgoblin saw the Soldier was in better shape. Well, sort of. Yellow Splatters had been burned, and it seemed like something had melted through his right shoulder’s armor. He was healing too; the cuts hadn’t gone through his carapace, and it was mostly cracked. The Soldier looked at Numbtongue.

“I called you back to the shop. You did not hear me.”

“Sorry. I got a sword.”

The Hobgoblin pointed vaguely at the iron sword laying in the street. The Soldier nodded.

“So I saw. You were impressive with it. A [Bard] is dangerous.”

“Not me. It was—”

The Hobgoblin wavered. He turned his head. Belatedly, nearly fifteen minutes after the fight had begun, he heard a shrill whistle and the marching of boots. Dozens of [Guardsmen] flooded the street, covered in chainmail and leather armor, shields raised, clearly apprehensive. They stopped in horror when they saw the bodies and the Antinium and Hobgoblin.

“Dead gods, it’s a massacre!”

One of the women cried out in horror. A flurry of [Guardsmen] aimed at Yellow Splatters and Numbtongue.

“Don’t move!”

One of the men with a plumed helmet screamed at Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters. The Antinium and Goblin looked at each other. Neither one moved.

It didn’t seem to reassure the [Guards]. They advanced slowly, screaming at the two. One of them took a look at some of the Humans lying on the ground clutching at their limbs and called for healing potions.

“A-arrest the two of them—”

The [Guardsman] with the helmet began uncertainly. Another one stared at Numbtongue and swore.

“Hell to that! Shoot them!”

The arrows tensed as the bowstrings drew back. The Watch Captain inhaled, and Numbtongue, seeing Yellow Splatters stiffen, reached for his belt. He said one word.

“Stop.”

No one did. They never did. The arrows aimed at Numbtongue, and the Watch Captain roared.

“Don’t shoot! Don’t shoot! There’s an Antinium, and by the Five Families, if there’s war—”

He froze as Numbtongue pulled a scroll out of his belt pouch. The Goblin unfurled it, muttering to himself, and tossed it at the Watch Captain. A bow twanged; an arrow flew, and Numbtongue ducked under it. He straightened, and the [Archer] went white as the Hobgoblin glared at him. Then Numbtongue turned to the Watch Captain.

“Read it.”

He waited, arms folded, as the Watch Captain shakily picked up the parchment and read it, keeping one eye on Numbtongue. Then he blinked, did a double-take, and began to read again. He looked up.

“That’s impossible.”

The Hobgoblin grinned toothily at him. He raised his voice so all the Humans on the street could hear.

“My name is Numbtongue. A member of the Redfang Goblins. I am a Bronze-rank adventurer. The Humans threatened me and attacked. I defended myself.”

The Humans stared at Numbtongue for a long second. Someone breathed out.

“Bullshit.”

Numbtongue shrugged.

“They hit my friend. In there.”

He pointed into Octavia’s shop vaguely. All eyes turned to Yellow Splatters. Octavia, breathless, poked her head out the window.

“Oh, stitches. Now you show up?”

The Watch Captain blinked around at her and the Humans on the ground, most of whom had passed out.

“I—this is—”

“Quelm did this! He sent his gang to attack the shop! Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters, er, defended me!”

The [Guardswoman]’s voice rose higher.

“Defended? That monster killed—there are limbs everywhere!”

“Only six.”

Numbtongue blinked at the [Guardswoman]. She gaped at him and pointed a trembling finger.

“Watch Captain! That thing speaks! It’s a Hobgoblin—a Goblin monster! Just shoot it and—”

Her eyes went to Yellow Splatters, and her throat worked soundlessly. The Watch Captain was made of sterner stuff though, if only just. He pointed at Numbtongue.

“You—Goblin. You’re a monster. In our city.”

Numbtongue folded his arms.

“I have a paper proving I’m a person. Where’s yours?”

The Watch Captain stared down at the scroll and hesitated.

“Wall Lord…Guildmistress…Gold-rank…Pisces?”

He looked at Numbtongue. Then, nervously, at Yellow Splatters.

“That thing’s an Antinium Soldier, though. It’s—this is war! Isn’t it? It’s under arrest.”

The [Guards] around the Watch Captain looked uneasy. One of them sidled over and whispered.

“Can we do that?”

“How’ll we cuff it?”

Yellow Splatters didn’t give them time to try it. He copied Numbtongue and folded all four arms.

“I am the Prognugator of the Free Antinium’s Hive. Will you try to arrest me?”

He loomed over the Watch Captain. And that was Yellow Splatters' skill, or Skill. He was able to loom in multiple dimensions, not just vertically, but horizontally as well. The Human [Guards] edged back as they stared up at him. The Watch Captain went white.

“Another Prognugator…?”

He glanced from Numbtongue to Yellow Splatters. Octavia had disappeared inside her shop. The Watch Captain hesitated, then looked at the bloody street. His expression firmed at last.

“You two. I don’t care if you’re Antinium Prognugators or backed by every Walled City in the world! You just attacked dozens of Celum’s citizens. You are under arrest. Come with us quietly or…we’ll be forced to take you down.”

The City Watch raised their weapons behind him. Numbtongue bared his teeth. He knew they’d die if they fought. Human criminals were one thing, but these ones had proper weapons, even if they looked like half of them would run away screaming. He looked at Yellow Splatters. The Antinium gazed at him. Slowly, the [Sergeant] uncrossed his arms and made four fists.

“You may try.”

Celum’s City Watch shuddered. But that was the thing about bluffs, even great ones. Sometimes they didn’t work. The Captain of the City Watch inhaled, his face going dead white. The arrows nocked on the strings—and Erin Solstice walked out of Stitchworks in front of a very nervous Octavia.

“Hey, Numbtongue! I’m here! Sorry it took so—oh my god, what happened?”

She stopped in the doorway. She looked at the blood on the cobblestones, the severed hand lying at Numbtongue’s feet, the City Watch, whose bows were now aimed at her chest. Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters moved to block them. The Captain of the Watch pointed at her.

“You—that Goblin—the Antinium, and Octavia Cotton are all under arrest.”

“Numbtongue. What happened?”

Erin ignored the man. She turned to Numbtongue, then narrowed her eyes. The Hobgoblin tried to look innocent. But while his injuries were healed, Erin could hardly miss the blood staining his clothing or the tears in said clothing. Erin inhaled and then bellowed.

“Alright! Who’s bullying Numbtongue?”

She glared around the Hobgoblin at the Captain. He bellowed back, face crimson.

“Your Goblin just killed two dozen of Celum’s citizens!”

At that, Octavia danced around Erin nervously. She shouted at the [Guardsmen]—and the people watching from down the street and the windows.

“They were thugs! Sent to destroy my shop by Quelm! A bunch of criminals! And the Watch didn’t do a thing to stop them!”

“What? No—we didn’t—be quiet!”

The Captain of the Guard roared at Octavia, his face turning from red to pale pink with horror. The [Alchemist] pointed a trembling finger at him.

“He’s taking money from Quelm! The City Watch is being bought out! They didn’t do a thing when those [Rogues] set fire to part of my shop! Or extorted me for money!”

“Be quiet! You’re under arrest! And you’re under arrest! You’re all under arrest!”

The Captain of the City Watch pointed from Numbtongue to Yellow Splatters to Octavia. He pointed a fourth time, looking for Erin. But she was missing. The Captain stared around, then heard Erin’s voice from the inn.

“Hey, Relc? Grimalkin? Uh—Maughin and Jelaqua? How do you feel about [Thugs]? Someone mind giving me some backup? I’ll take you too, Keldrass. Not you, Moore. There are a lot of arrows out there. But you’ll do, Senator Errif! Come on!”

The Captain of the Guard might not have known who most of those names were. But he knew trouble when he heard it. He quailed, and Numbtongue, looking at Yellow Splatters, saw Octavia sag in relief. The Hobgoblin looked around at the wounded Humans, the staring city, and grinned. It wasn’t Liscor. But it was a city. He looked back over his shoulder as Erin, protective mother with an army of friends, stomped back through the door. And the rest was her story.





——



Celum was in turmoil. The City Watch was under fire. Erin Solstice, Grimalkin, a [Senator] from Pallass—it was enough to drag Celum’s own [Mayor] out of his bed. While he would have loved to order his Captain of the Watch to arrest everyone present, especially since a Goblin and Antinium had incapacitated nearly twenty of Celum’s people, there were complications to giving that order.

Firstly, it was apparent that all those injured were some variety of [Thug], [Thief], [Brigand], or so on. Celum’s criminal underbelly, although it hadn’t had much of one until recently. Unfortunately, it had grown substantially bigger thanks to a certain [Alchemist] Quelm, who had, in fact, been threatening his rivals and using the gang to extort money from them.

That was bad. But what was worse was the fact that Celum’s own City Watch had clearly been ignoring or unaware of the gang’s activities, both of which did not look good. And there was no chance of sweeping this under the rug, because a very vocal [Alchemist] was shouting it from the rooftop of her shop.

And the last thing stopping the [Mayor] from arresting everyone was a [Innkeeper] who was leading Pallass’ most important [Blacksmith], a Drake [Mage] capable of wiping out Celum’s entire City Watch, a [Senator] from Pallass, a Gold-rank adventurer, and one of Liscor’s own [Guardsman]. The [Mayor] and Erin were having a screaming match in the street.

“You can’t bring Drake [Guardsmen] and adventurers into this city and start arresting our citizens!”

“Oh yeah? Oh yeah? Watch me! Your City Watch let these guys threaten Octavia, steal money—hey, Relc, if you find all that gang and this Quelm guy, I’ll give you free food for a week!”

“Awesome!”

The [Mayor] clutched at his hair.

“You can’t do this! There will be consequences!”

“I am the consequences!”

The rule of law in Celum was breaking down. But that was another story. For the Goblin and the Antinium Soldier relaxing in the street outside of Stitchworks, their role had ended. Numbtongue was checking himself for more injuries as Yellow Splatters pulled broken bits of metal out of his carapace.

“I will most likely level from this. But this encounter proves how weak I am.”

“Yeah?”

Numbtongue looked up. By his count, Yellow Splatters had downed at least twelve of the Humans here and injured a score more. The Soldier nodded.

“We were overwhelmed by low-level Humans. It is proof we are weak. We are all weak. I am told even Revalantor Klbkch died when fighting a score of small Goblins.”

Numbtongue shrugged. A knife in the belly was a knife in the belly.

“Not enough armor. Too slow. Redscar or Garen could beat all of the Humans. Or maybe Headscratcher with his enchanted axe. Actually, even Headscratcher would probably die alone. Fighting lots of anything is hard.”

“Yes. But we must improve.”

“You’ll level up.”

The Hobgoblin winced as he pulled a bit of wood out of his side. His flesh had healed around the splinter. He looked up as the [Mayor] stormed off, having lost the shouting match with Erin. Yellow Splatters looked too.

“It appears that Erin Solstice is attempting to resolve the situation on our behalf. That is very convenient.”

“She’s…family.”

The [Bard] looked at Erin. He shook his head. There would be consequences. There always were. But for a moment, with Erin shouting, she could turn a city on its head. He looked at Yellow Splatters after a moment.

“Are you really the Prognugator? Of the…Hive?”

The Soldier paused.

“That was a convenient fact.”

The [Bard] smiled.

“A lie.”

“Perhaps.”

They waited as Erin stomped back towards the shop. Octavia clambered down from her roof to look at the young woman. Erin seemed angry, upset—and frightened. She’d looked at Numbtongue with real fear when he’d been covered in blood. Now she rounded on Octavia.

“Thugs? This Quelm dude threatening you? Octavia, why didn’t you tell me this was happening?”

The Stitch-girl looked down at her hands. She tugged at a string and muttered.

“I—well, I tried, Erin. Remember when I tried to talk to you? But you were busy, and I thought the City Watch might handle it, but it all got out of hand too fast. I went to you, Lyonette, Krshia, Ceria at the start, but no one would listen. And after Ksmvr said no, one of those Humans came by and said that if I went through to your inn again or I tried to inform the Watch again, they’d burn down the shop. With me inside.”

“Oh.”

Erin stared at Octavia. The [Alchemist] grinned weakly.

“Don’t worry. I knew you’d do something if you found out, but those guys—they’re dangerous. There was another [Alchemist] who didn’t listen. Jeffil. They…broke his arms. Stabbed the [Watchman] he hired. I thought if I went to you and they got you…it all worked out, right?”

“Sure. I mean—yeah. I’ll make this right, Octavia. Those guys and this Quelm dude are going to pay. Relc’s on the case! He can beat them all up. I think Embria’s followed him. And Grimalkin.”

Erin waved at the street vaguely. Numbtongue exchanged a glance with Yellow Splatters. One against thirty? The Soldier whispered.

“Weak.”

Numbtongue just watched Erin. She was talking to Octavia, frustrated, angry—but there was another emotion running underneath it all. It was guilt. She turned to him after a moment.

“Hey, Numbtongue, I’m going to fix this. You stay here, okay?”

“Sure.”

The Hobgoblin nodded. The [Innkeeper] smiled at him and then turned and stomped back towards the [Mayor] for round two. He watched her for a second, then stood up. Yellow Splatters was already on his feet.

“Hey. That’s the Human.”

Numbtongue pointed. Yellow Splatters turned his head, and the Soldier started.

“Ah. The ally.”

The Goblin and Soldier walked over to the man standing down the street. He had cleaned the blood from the place he’d been stabbed, and he seemed in better condition than Numbtongue or Yellow Splatters. The [Enforcer], who to Numbtongue was just another Human with a hat, tipped his cap as they approached.

“Good scrap, sirs. Pardon the abrupt introduction. I hope I was of some help? I can’t abide uncivilized sorts. That young lady in the shop doing well?”

He nodded towards Stitchworks. Numbtongue stared blankly at him.

“Octavia? Fine.”

He noticed the [Enforcer] didn’t bat an eye at the way Numbtongue spoke. His eyes did widen a bit when Yellow Splatters turned to him.

“You rendered us assistance during the conflict. For that, you have my gratitude. I am Yellow Splatters. Who are you?”

The man shook Yellow Splatters' hand without a second’s thought. He tipped his hat to Numbtongue, who didn’t hold his hand out to shake. The [Enforcer]’s smile was genial. And reserved.

“You can call me a serendipitous friend. We don’t deal in names, us that work in this line of business.”

“What line?”

“The same as those poor fools you and I scrapped with.”

The man nodded to the street. Some of the Humans were still there, although the City Watch had put them in cuffs. For some it was a cuff too many; their limbs had healed, but the severed digits and hands were gone. A consequence of using a potion too early; they might have tried to reattach the limb, rare as it was to go well. Numbtongue frowned at the man.

“You’re a criminal.”

“A criminal?”

Yellow Splatters instantly loomed over the [Enforcer]. His fists clenched. The man looked up to Yellow Splatters, and his hat twitched on his head.

“I’ve committed no crimes in Celum, sir, and none that come with any bothersome bounties or crimes you’d know of, such as it were. I’m just a visitor to the city, like you good gents. In fact, I came here looking for answers to a spot of bother some of my associates had the other month.”

“…I do not understand.”

Yellow Splatters frowned, stepping back from the [Enforcer]. The twisted language made little sense to Numbtongue as well, but he understood vaguely what the man was hinting at.

“You’re looking for more friends. Who are also thieves.”

“Not for my…acquaintances, sir. I believe I know what became of them. Rather, I would like to know how they ended up that way. And I think you might be just the fellow I’m looking for.”

The [Enforcer] tipped his hat to Numbtongue politely. The action was…familiar. In a way that bothered the Goblin a lot. He frowned at the [Enforcer]. The sap was hidden as well, but that too triggered a memory now that Numbtongue was out of the battle.

“Why me? Who are your friends?”

“I don’t know that they gave names. But did you by any chance run into a…unpleasant meeting with some people, oh, a while back? During that business with the siege of Liscor. Before the Goblin Lord. Some men. Three. Humans. Like me. All with caps, unless the business truly got nasty in the end.”

Numbtongue paused. He’d met lots of Humans. But now he was certain. The [Enforcer] stared at him. And the slight smile on his face…

“Perhaps this might jog your memory.”

He began to hum. From his lips, Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters heard a faint tune. A quiet rhyme. A children’s song.



“The night’s been long and the bodies are wet,

But don’t you fret; be quick and ain’t not a guard who’ll be upset

The good folk are rising, and we’re off to our beds,

The smart thieves away with the loot and the slow ones are dead.”



And Numbtongue remembered. The man with the cudgel. The thieves who’d taken Erin’s door. The [Enforcer] winked.

“Jog a memory, perchance?”

“I…”

The Hobgoblin hesitated. This was something else unfamiliar to him. He looked for Erin, but she was still hollering in the middle of the street. When he looked back, the [Enforcer] had stepped close. Too close.

“I’ve just a question. Sir. How’d it happen that you should cross paths with my brothers? And what terrible twist led you to kill them?”

“Numbtongue?”

Yellow Splatters was staring at the [Enforcer] cautiously. But he was behind the man, and Numbtongue—the Hob’s hairs all stood up on end. Pyrite’s memories that had melded with his during the battle were screaming at him.

That sap can break all of your bones in a moment. His [Shatter Blows] Skill is probably recharged. The sap and his hands are so quick he’ll kill me in a moment. It’s something Humans developed for cities. On a battlefield, you could kill him. Here—do you lie or tell the truth?

Maybe the [Enforcer] sensed what was on Numbtongue’s mind. One hand tipped the cap. The other hovered on the hilt of the sap.

“In case you were wondering why I’m so insistent…I’ve a Skill. [Grudgescent Terrier], sir. I can see the deaths of my associates on you. So I’ve a question. No unpleasantness for now. Truth is its own reward. Do not lie. Please.”

Numbtongue wavered for only a moment. Then he nodded.

“I killed them…”

The [Enforcer] listened to the short description of the fight. His eyes flickered when Numbtongue talked about the last man’s salute and the nursery rhyme. But all he did when Numbtongue was done was sigh.

“So you had no idea this group was coming your way. You simply saw the boats—and the door that you knew they’d no right to—and made your call. Simply done, sir. Simply done. But it brings up more questions for me, sad to say.”

He stepped back, pondering, and Yellow Splatters moved next to Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin saw two more figures approaching them down the street. A woman and…no, was it just her? She was beautiful as Humans went he supposed, and the scar was very pretty. Any female Redfang would want that. But her eyes struck him as predatory. Dangerous. And she had two blades in her sleeves.

“So this is the one.”

“The gent says he ran into our groups on the way out of the Floodplains. He recognized the door, but how our teams ran into him and apparently an entire tribe of battle-ready Goblins is the real question.”

The [Enforcer] informed the [Nightstalker]. She bared her teeth.

“A Hob and some Goblins killed an entire group and your three?”

“Apparently he’s better in a scrap when he’s armed. And there were…a few hundred of his lot. Now, why weren’t our groups warned that some very expert Goblins were in the area, hm? I think that’s the real question.”

The [Enforcer] smiled, but when he lifted his hat, his eyes were bleak. Numbtongue looked at the [Nightstalker]. The woman eyed him and spat.

“Are you from one of the gangs, Hob?”

“Gangs?”

“He’s a tribe Goblin.”

The [Enforcer] replied drily. Numbtongue looked at him, and the [Nightstalker] growled.

“I wasn’t asking you. Step off.”

She made a dangerous motion. The [Enforcer] eyed her, but stepped back. The Sister of Chell advanced.

“You, Goblin. Answer my questions or you’re dead. Got it?”

Yellow Splatters lowered one of his hands. The Sister of Chell stopped, and her stilettos flicked into her hands. Numbtongue saw a man—he blinked, frowning. There was someone else here. He narrowed his eyes at…Yellow Splatters was also turning his head, but he addressed the woman succinctly.

“Attack this Goblin and you will die.”

“Really?”

The [Nightstalker] glared up at the Soldier, but warily. She looked at Numbtongue and then jabbed a finger at him past Yellow Splatters.

“Who hired you to take out the Sisters of Chell? Was it the Plague Mage? Someone else? Who told you about the heist?”

“Who? What’s a heist? I just saw Humans stealing the door. So I killed them.”

Numbtongue was regretting it a bit now. It was impulsive, but when he’d seen Liscor on alert and the Humans running off with Erin’s door, he was sure they’d been up to no good. The [Nightstalker] glared at him. She looked at the [Enforcer], and he spread his hands.

“The story checks out. The Hobgoblin’s innocent, Miss. As far as I’m concerned. The question is whether this was bad intelligence or deliberate.”

“It doesn’t matter either way. Someone’s paying for this. And that includes him.”

The stiletto jabbed at Numbtongue. Yellow Splatters had had enough. He grabbed the hand—

And suddenly the other stiletto was sticking out his chest. Numbtongue began to shout, but the [Enforcer] leapt forwards. He caught the black shadow of a man before he swept the shortsword towards Numbtongue’s head. The [Nightstalker] recoiled as another of Yellow Splatters' hands gripped her throat. She stared at the Antinium as the [Blackguard] held very still. He and the [Enforcer] had locked eyes, and Numbtongue was crouched, ready to attack.

“Easy, gentlemen. Lady. Let’s all back off. Slowly. The good folk aren’t more than a few dozen feet away. And I don’t think I’d like to outrun a Gold-rank adventurer and whoever else is in that group. Would you?”

The [Enforcer] addressed the [Nightstalker]. She hesitated. Yellow Splatters' hand was around her throat, but it could have been a scarf for all she cared. What really seemed to bother her was that the Antinium kept the hand there after ten more seconds had passed. Her eyes swiveled to Yellow Splatters. With one of his free hands, the Antinium slowly pulled the stiletto out of his chest.

“Poison is useless against the Antinium.”

The woman’s eyes widened. She looked at the [Enforcer] and nodded slowly.

“Fine. Let go of me and him and we’ll go. For now.”

The [Enforcer] considered the offer. Then he looked at Yellow Splatters and Numbtongue.

“Best you’re going to get I’m afraid, lads. And if you were thinking of making this unpleasant…the Sisters won’t look kindly on having one of their own die on investigation. Whatsoever the cause.”

Yellow Splatters considered this. He slowly let go, and the [Enforcer] did likewise. The woman and man stepped back, and Numbtongue narrowed his eyes as the man vanished from Numbtongue’s immediate perception of the area. But the Goblin was now marking his general location.

“This isn’t over.”

The [Nightstalker] warned Numbtongue and the [Enforcer]. The Human man sighed, as if disappointed.

“And after you gave your word? That’s hardly polite. I say, wait until you know more of the picture. Time to visit Liscor and ask about. There’s a scene there, even if it’s foreign. As for you, sir…”

He turned to Numbtongue and regarded him.

“I’d like to believe it was all chance on your end. In which case, the Brothers won’t hold much of a grudge. But there’s always debts to be settled, sir. I’ll make my report fair as I can.”

“Thanks?”

Numbtongue had no idea what was going on. He looked at the woman as she grabbed her other stiletto and walked backwards. She was easier to understand. She was going to try and kill him. She confirmed this by pointing at Numbtongue’s chest.

“The Sisters of Chell don’t play games of chivalry. You are marked.”

“The Antinium protect him. Remember that.”

Yellow Splatters raised all four arms. Numbtongue saw the invisible man warily stepping between him and the Sister of Chell. The two retreated, never taking their eyes off Numbtongue. The [Enforcer] just sighed.

“Time was it was easier to deal with situations. No Goblins, just good, old-fashioned backstabbing. Not that I blame you, sir. You answered me truthfully, or my Skills would have told me so.”

“You know Goblins. You said I’m a tribal Goblin. Are there Goblins in cities?”

Numbtongue couldn’t believe it. Goblins lived in cities? Garen had said he was the only one! The [Enforcer] hesitated.

“My…association doesn’t work with Goblins or non-Humans as a rule. But I’ve heard and seen it done. We even have a few lads in our ranks of that sort. Good fellows. Very good fellows, as it were.”

“There are Goblins? Working with you?”

Numbtongue said it again. The [Enforcer]’s smile was wide and secretive. He tapped his nose and then tugged his cap.

“There’s a world unseen, gents. In the cities of the north, there’s places no upstanding citizen knows of. And while we ain’t quite as dangerous as the Antinium or a Goblin Lord…well, we’ll be about. Some of our folk died, and we want to know why. Simple as that. You’re the one who killed them, sir. But it seems they were set up or they ran into you by chance. And I’m not sure I believe in chances.”

He nodded at Numbtongue. The Goblin nodded. Yellow Splatters stared at the [Enforcer].

“Who are you?”

“A serendipitous sort. A friend of the quiet folk. Never you mind, Antinium Soldier sir. It’s not the sort of thing a fine sort like you’d ever run across. At least, so I thought until now. If we meet again, let’s all have a drink. I’d hate to meet in less happy ways.”

The [Enforcer] tipped his hat. He stepped back and walked towards the crowd of people. Numbtongue followed him with his eyes as the man slipped into the milling Humans.

Like that, they were gone. And though Celum was overturned by any number of significant events, largely involving an [Innkeeper] upsetting the rule of law, the two, no, three individuals that Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters had met were nowhere to be seen.



——



That night, Erin gathered Numbtongue, Lyonette, and Mrsha to discuss what had happened. The common room of The Wandering Inn was still packed, and the magic door was connected to Pallass via portal. No one would stand to have it connected to Celum at the moment, which was why Octavia was standing with the four, looking nervous and withdrawn. Tired. She wasn’t as chatty as she had been, and Erin was being…kind to the [Alchemist].

“Celum’s hopping mad, guys. Mostly at the City Watch, but I guess sort of at Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters. At least, the City Watch is. But he’s an adventurer, and those were bad guys he, uh, dismembered.”

“You mean disarmed.”

Lyonette frowned. Numbtongue snorted into his cup, and Mrsha looked from Erin’s suddenly blank face to Numbtongue’s and Lyonette’s. There was a pause, and then Octavia burst out laughing, which made everyone else but Mrsha laugh as well. Erin called out.

“Lyonette! That’s terrible!”

“Sorry. I just thought—”

The [Princess] laughed, and Numbtongue, snorting out ale through his nose, coughed. When he had wiped it with a handkerchief, Erin signaled them all towards seriousness. Mrsha folded her arms, not amused at the adults’ hilarity.

“Seriously, though. Octavia’s shop is sort of, um…damaged. I mean, it already was, which was sort of my fault—but the thugs took money from her and did all sorts of stuff. And she used a lot of potions by throwing them during the fight. We need to pay her back.”

Erin nodded at Octavia. The Stitch-girl looked up at the word ‘pay’, but she shook her head when Erin finished.

“It’s okay. I had it coming. I did start it with Quelm. And I’ve learned my lesson. I’m…I guess goodwill’s more important than gold. If it wasn’t for Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters, I’d have lost everything.”

She smiled at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin peered at her and looked at Erin. This was not the fast-talking [Alchemist] he remembered. She seemed deflated. Erin met his eyes and nodded, concerned.

“Everybody’s at fault. Maybe us more than anyone because we didn’t listen. Then again…Ceria says she’d have been in trouble with the Horns if they fought forty guys. How’d you survive that, Numbtongue?”

“Potions. Yellow Splatters. Good memories.”

And a dangerous man. But Numbtongue didn’t say that out loud. Erin nodded.

“We’ll make it right, Octavia. I promise. We’ve…I’ve been bad to you. Even if you do try to sell a lot. To make it up, Ksmvr’s volunteered to stand guard in the shop tonight with the door open. If anyone comes to make trouble from that old gang, he’ll call us. And you’ll sleep in the inn. Okay? Our third floor’s rebuilt.”

She pointed upstairs. Everyone else looked up. Numbtongue blinked.

“It is?”

“Yup! So, Octavia, sit down. Have a drink.”

Erin gently ushered Octavia to a seat. The [Alchemist] girl sat, and soon Erin was fussing over her as Lyonette, Mrsha, and Numbtongue watched.

“I feel awful. Octavia didn’t deserve that. Or rather, most of it. I think they really did threaten her. Maybe with fire. Stitch-people are terrified of burning.”

Lyonette confided in Numbtongue. He nodded, his eyes on the [Alchemist]. He understood the gang wanting to steal from her, at least. Her shop was so valuable. The potions Octavia had made had saved him and Yellow Splatters. He thought about how hard it was for a Goblin to get even a single potion.

Then Numbtongue heard a voice in the milling crowd. Mainly because it mentioned his name. He looked around and saw Keldrass, one of the Drakes, speaking to the adventurers around him. The Pallassian adventurer looked disgruntled as he argued with Bevussa, Jelaqua, and some of the others.

“I’m not saying it was wrong to destroy a gang. But how can Celum—or any city, Liscor or Celum or Pallass—allow a single Human to throw laws out the window as it pleases her?”

“You’re telling me you object to Erin storming in there and helping arrest that crooked [Alchemist], Keldrass? Really? It’s idiots like him that create monopolies on potions and make adventurers like us pay twice or three times what we have to along with everyone else! Or have you not been to any city besides Pallass?”

Jelaqua was arguing with Keldrass in a Raskghar’s body, much to the displeasure of most of the Gnolls in the room. She folded her arms below her breasts and looked down at Keldrass, much to his displeasure. The Drake hissed in frustration, his tail lashing.

“I’m not saying that. I’m saying the way she went about it was wrong. Or don’t you think she did that just to protect her pet Goblin and Antinium Soldier?”

Numbtongue’s eyed locked on Keldrass. The Drake glared around. Jelaqua opened her mouth to respond, and Bevussa saw Numbtongue incoming. The Hobgoblin walked towards the adventurers, and the Garuda groaned.

“Oh, Ancestors.”

The Hobgoblin strode towards Keldrass, and the adventurers went quiet. In accordance with silence-theory, so did a good portion of the inn. Erin turned around from Octavia and swore. She stood up, but Numbtongue was already confronting the Drake.

As before, now again. Keldrass shifted, one claw moving to his side, and Numbtongue saw the mace hanging there. Keldrass was wearing the armor one of the Raskghar had been using—a powerful magical set. And he could breathe fire. But it was words he spat at Numbtongue, sharp and cruel.

“What, Goblin? I’m speaking the truth. You walked into a sovereign city, a Human one, true, and massacred two dozen Humans with an Antinium Soldier. Explain to me why that’s acceptable.”

“I didn’t kill any of them. And they were criminals. If adventurers did it—”

Keldrass snorted a plume of fire.

“If adventurers did it, my team or a Human one, we’d be arrested! You were only spared thanks to one Human. Her. I’m not saying destroying organized crime was wrong. But I am against one Human subverting the rule of law! That is not how government works!”

He pointed angrily at Erin. She stuck her tongue out at him as she joined the standoff. Numbtongue clenched his fists, searching for the right words. It was hard! He didn’t know what to say. He was barely six years old. He was a warrior; he didn’t know how to talk to Keldrass or even understand the nuance of the Drake’s arguments for all he understood the words!

But perhaps someone did. In his head, Numbtongue reached for a second voice as he had in battle. It was not him. But it was. And the memories had been given for him to use. While he feared, resented, and was confused by them, a dead Goblin’s memories—he could do what Numbtongue could not.

Maybe only Erin, Lyonette, and Mrsha noticed the change. And Yellow Splatters. It was slight. A shift of posture. The difference in the intonation of voice. Numbtongue had always been erudite, if reluctant to show it. And he was no less so now. But the inflection was off. Still, you had to know him to recognize the difference. The [Bard] rumbled in his chest.

“Hm. And it works very well already? You have [Thugs]. Gangs. It’s good to have them because the law is there? Better to have laws than justice?”

Keldrass blinked, then flushed. Jelaqua looked delighted and gave Numbtongue a thumbs-up.

“That’s not what I meant. I’m just saying that Erin—she rescued you because you were connected to her! She cannot interfere and command other people above her rank just because of personal…attachments!”

Numbtongue folded his arms. He set himself with a wider stance, as if he’d suddenly gained weight and needed to brace himself.

“I see. Like the Gnolls and Raskghar? Terrible for her to interfere.”

A ripple of motion ran around the room. Bevussa smiled. Keldrass’ scales turned even redder.

“Don’t twist my words. Those were monsters!”

Numbtongue nodded heavily. He grunted.

“And those Humans were monsters. Your point?”

Erin looked up at the [Bard] in awe. Keldrass opened his mouth, saw Bevussa shaking her head at him, and turned around.

“I refuse to argue with a Goblin. I’m stating my opinion. I’m trying to support the system that keeps Drake society running!”

He appealed to his fellow Drakes, who nodded. Numbtongue eyed the room and waggled an ear. His cadence became even more broken up.

“Don’t want to argue with Goblins. Mm. Because Goblins are stupid? Smelly? Monsters? Animals? Or because you’ll lose?”

Keldrass whirled around. He took a deep breath and noticed Erin staring at him. Erin, who sold acid jars. And who controlled the door that connected his home city to hers. And Lasica and Rufelt, the famed duo who ran the very popular inn he might want to visit with his team. And Xif, the best [Alchemist] who sold potions in the city. And Maughin. He hesitated, and everyone could see him choosing his words carefully.

“Some Goblins are…friendly. I’ll grant you that. Even intelligent. But that Drake earlier wasn’t wrong. Goblins killed his family. Why shouldn’t he be wary? Goblins as a whole can’t be reasoned with. The Goblin King—I’ll grant you that you’re safe. Beneficial even. Yes, you were right to defend an [Alchemist]. Happy?”

He exhaled hard, his eye twitching as he glared at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin just shook his head.

“I’m fine.”

“That’s right. I said you’re not a threat to people. What more do you want?”

Numbtongue fixed Keldrass with an old look. A deep one.

“To be treated like a person. Not an animal.”

The Drake opened his mouth. Numbtongue rolled on, his voice deeper, contemplative. With the words of a Goblin who used them seldom. But had thought over this argument the many years he’d been alive.

“You. Keldrass. You say this Goblin is good. This Goblin is safe. Because Erin Solstice…tamed him? Because this Goblin learned? But other Goblins, wild Goblins, you can’t trust them. You have to find good ones. Train them. Like animals. Like a pet.”

“I didn’t say that.”

“Not directly. But you said it to my face. So did the last Drake. What makes you a person and me an animal? Red eyes? Teeth?”

Numbtongue smiled, and his teeth were sharp, pointed. But Keldrass’ scowl hid teeth no less sharp. Numbtongue looked around the inn. He turned. And a dead Goblin’s words came to life.

“What makes a Goblin a monster? That they kill? Gnolls kill Drakes. Drakes kill Gnolls. Humans kill both. That we make war? Drakes make war. That our King destroys? The King of Destruction destroys. What is the thing that makes Goblins monsters?”

“The fact that you have no civility. No laws! No order! You build nothing—you copy and destroy! That’s all Goblins have ever done! All they do!”

Keldrass snapped at Numbtongue. Pyrite stared at him, and the Gold-rank adventurer hesitated. There was a look in the crimson depths. Slowly, Pyrite reached into the satchel by his side. He felt around in it, speaking as he did.

“You say we are not civil. I say, good evening. Good night. Hello, Adventurer Keldrass. I am Pyr—Numbtongue. How do you do? By sword and bell, I raise my blade. By the walls, I salute you! On this grass I walk, I offer peace-bound friendship!”

Behind the Goblin, Pisces sat up in his chair. The Drakes from Pallass looked up, and jaws dropped. The Plains Gnolls’ eyes bulged. And the Hob went on. The bag clinked as he found what he was looking for and smiled.

“Goblins have no laws? We have the ones that matter. The Chieftain leads. Goblins should not kill Goblins. We have no books. And we have no [Guards]. We guard ourselves. Perhaps that is silly. But it works. We have order. It goes like this. One Goblin leads, and the others follow. As [Kings] rule, Goblins do too. But no one watches Goblins, so how would you know? And as for building…”

He paused and looked around. The inn was silent, watching, unsure. Pyrite shrugged.

“I do not build. But I find. I mine. Once, there was a Goblin who loved treasures. And he taught himself to find them in the mountain. For fun.”

Slowly, he withdrew the object he’d grasped. Keldrass gasped along with everyone around him. A gold nugget rested in Pyrite’s palm. He regarded it idly and glanced around. The glitter of the metal caught every eye. Gold. But Pyrite tossed it up and down. Jelaqua’s voice was strangled.

“Hold on. Numbtongue, where’d you get—”

“He—I—found it. Mined it from a mountain. From Rockmites and stone. Do you like it?”

“Um…yes?”

The Goblin smiled.

“Want it?”

He held the nugget out. Keldrass stared, and his claws twitched. So did Jelaqua’s; Pyrite had held it out between her, Bevussa, and the Drake. All three adventurers reached for it at once, and Pyrite pulled the nugget back. He spoke again, tossing the heavy orb up and down. Hypnotizing the crowd.

“Once. There was a Goblin. He liked shiny things. Gold. Gems. Mana stones. They glittered, and he found a way to mine them. They were his. He went into caves with monsters and got them. He mined them. If he was a Drake, they would say ‘that is his treasure’. But adventurers did not think so. They saw he had treasure, and they tried to kill him for it.”

He looked around.

“Was that fair? They did not mine it. They did not earn it. They tried to kill him for it. And they killed his tribe. They hunted him. They built nothing. They only destroyed. That was all they ever did.”

“That’s—different. They—we’re adventurers. We hunt monsters. If you had a hoard, they would target you.”

Keldrass sounded as though he wasn’t certain of himself. He stared at the gold as Pyrite tossed it up and down. The Hobgoblin shrugged.

“And if I was a person, I would call them [Thieves]. But a Goblin is a Goblin. A Goblin is a monster. An animal. It can be tamed. But it is still an animal. Right?”

He looked around the room. Some didn’t meet his eyes. Others did. Like Erin. She mouthed at Numbtongue.

Who are you?

The Goblin winked at her. Just for a moment. Then he offered the nugget again to Keldrass. The gold glinted in the fading light.

“Want it?”

The Drake hesitated. He looked around the room, warring with himself. But the gold was gold. And Drakes were the children of Dragons.

“Yes. Why? Is it a bribe? A gift? Proof you’re a person?”

His expression said he might say anything to have it and to be out of the spotlight. Pyrite just grinned a Goblin’s grin.

“Nothing. It’s yours. If you pick it up.”

He tossed the nugget on the floor. It was a decent toss; the nugget rolled a bit, but it was so heavy it actually dented the floorboards. Keldrass started. He looked at Pyrite and then around. Everyone watched him. The Drake considered how much it would cost his image to bend over and pick up the nugget. Then he stiffly walked over. Pyrite waited until the Drake was moving. Then, as Keldrass bent, he spoke one word.

“Fetch.”

The Drake—froze. And so did the room. Slowly, Keldrass turned. His face was flushed under his scales. He glared at Pyrite, but with a hint of triumph.

“Never.”

The Hobgoblin eyed him silently, then he smiled and shrugged. He looked around the room.

“It’s just gold. Worthless to a Goblin. But anyone who wants it may fetch.”

With that, he walked away. He sat down with a grunt and a sigh, reaching for a hamburger. He lifted it to his lips and bit once. He smiled with satisfaction—

And then Numbtongue was there. The [Bard] chewed, swallowed, and looked around the room. He indicated the nugget as Pyrite had done. And there was only silence.

No one moved. The adventurers were frozen. Keldrass, his arms folded, was flushed. He was deliberately not looking at the nugget of gold. Most people weren’t.

Of course, no one else was going to ‘fetch’ it. Pick it up and prove the Goblin’s point? Hah! Okay, he’d mined it. But he was giving it away. And if you thought about what he’d said about thieves…no. No, this was just about the gold. Every eye darted to it. It was definitely gold. If you knew anything about how heavy gold was and if you’d seen the real stuff…gold. But no one would pick it up. That was out of the question.

Maybe, if no one was looking, someone might stroll over to it and, by pure accident, nudge it with a shoe. And why not pick it up then? That damn Goblin wasn’t ordering them. It was just money, and who didn’t like that? If no one was watching. But Numbtongue was staring at all of them, with a sneer for a smile. Pisces would have been hard pressed to outdo him at this moment.

Slowly, everyone turned back to what they were doing, ignoring the gold on the ground. The Goblin was still there. Still watching. But so what? He’d give up and go away. In a few minutes. When he saw no one was going to pick it up. In an hour, even. They could wait hours to prove him wrong. They were people. And he was just…a talented miner. That was a useful Skill, wasn’t it? Did he have a class? Did he have more gold in that bag of his? No, no. That would be theft. From a monster?

He’d go away. When he did…‘accidents’ could happen, and no one would have to own up to it. Everyone was sure on that point. Completely sure. They’d just sit there and talk…one of the Drakes looked over at his companion, a Dullahan.

“So…how’s that pizza?”

The Dullahan quickly turned his head on his shoulders.

“Fine. It is good pizza.”

“Right, right.”

The inn murmured agreement. No one was watching the nugget. They were talking about proper people-things. And the Goblin was going to get bored. They relaxed, realizing everyone was on the same wavelength. Then everyone saw it.

A complication. She was small, furry, and white. She was also a Gnoll. Mrsha was padding along the edge of the room, having borne witness to Pyrite’s speech and his offer of free gold nuggets to anyone who picked it up. She was the one person moving in the tableau of a room. And suddenly, everyone was staring at her.

They all stared at Mrsha. The white Gnoll was innocently slinking from table to person to chair towards the lovely, shiny, and most of all, round nugget lying on the floor. She had an innocent look on her face that fooled no one, not even Pawn, Yellow Splatters, or Ksmvr. Mrsha had a target. She was a Gnoll of the Stone Spears tribe, and she knew the worth of a good mineral.

The future was open to the crowded room. They could all see it, as if they’d all become Gazers. If no one acted, Mrsha was going to grab the gold nugget and run off. It would be hers. And well…what a waste.

“That’s solid gold. Pure too, if I’m any guess. Might be worth ten gold pieces. More?”

The person to break the thoughtful silence was a Human. Earlia, captain of Gemhammer. She was a former [Miner], and she knew gold. She eyed the nugget, and everyone considered that number. It wasn’t a small amount. Okay, some in the room were rich. Others were not. Adventurers could always use more money. So could poor, hardworking [Senators]. And [Shopkeepers]. And a [Bartender] could buy a nice stool with ten gold pieces.

The gold had a luster of its own. The adventurer nodded slowly.

“It’d be a shame not to pick it up. Hey. Blaik, you go for it.”

Earlia turned to one of her team. The brawny Human adventurer hesitated.

“What, me? I’m not a pet.”

“No, you’re my subordinate. Go pick it up.”

“Why don’t you, Captain?”

“Well…”

Earlia hesitated. Some people in the inn were clearly less preoccupied with Numbtongue’s taunt than, say, the attraction of free gold. Pisces for one. He was slowly sliding towards the gold at roughly Mrsha’s pace. But now Earlia and the others saw the problem. Well, if they went for it, then the others would too. She casually took a sip from her empty mug.

“Maybe I might.”

Errif, not to be confused with Elirr, who was having a drink at the bar, gulped. The Head of Pallass’ [Merchant]’s guild spoke slowly.

“You know, I would wager that’s eight gold pieces’ worth of pure gold in that nugget…fourteen if you find a [Mage] or [Alchemist] in need of gold as a component. Just so we’re clear, yes?”

He looked around the room. Speculative eyes stared at the nugget. Mrsha, who’d been creeping up on it all this time, noticed the stares. She looked up, hesitated, and with uncanny intuition and restraint decided this was not, in fact, worth it. She slunk back to Erin. The [Innkeeper], laughing quietly, scooped her up. Erin looked around and then shouted.

“My precious!”

Fourteen Gnolls, half the Drakes in the room, Pisces, Ceria, Relc, and Lyonette all went for the nugget. The scramble was so intense that Erin ducked back as tables and chairs went flying. She hollered as she carried Mrsha to safety.

“I’m gonna have to test my new Skill now! Hey! No magic! I said, no magic!”

In the end, it was Earlia who emerged, panting, from the mess. She’d been fastest and was nursing a swollen lip and two bruises. She plonked the nugget on the table in front of the other adventurers. Jelaqua, who’d been too busy sitting with Maughin and Bevussa, who weren’t that desperate, looked up. The former [Miner] grinned.

“Woof.”

She sat down with the Gold-ranks. Across the inn, Numbtongue was happily sitting with Yellow Splatters and Mrsha and Erin and Octavia, his back straight and proud. He might not be allowed in Liscor or Celum, but he’d won something, and all the adventurers sensed it. Keldrass stomped over to the table and sat down. No one said a word. Earlia tapped the gold nugget with a spoon and listened to the sound it made. Then she looked up.

“Have you ever heard of it? The Golden Goblin?”

“What?”

The Pallassian adventurers sitting around the table gave her a blank look. Jelaqua, on the other hand, frowned. Earlia nodded to her.

“Maybe it’s only in the north. Come to think of it…well, just listen. It was an old urban legend around the Adventurer’s Guilds where I came from. North of Celum a ways, but all over, really. One of those myths adventurers tell, like seeing a Unicorn, you know? Or finding a Dragon’s scale? Anyways. There was a saying that there was a Goblin whose tribe was insanely rich somewhere around the High Passes. People thought the Goblin had uncovered a treasure hoard or maybe looted a bunch of caravans. Either way, that Numbtongue Goblin made me think of it.”

“The Golden Goblin?”

Keldrass snorted dismissively, but every eye flicked towards Numbtongue. Earlia nodded, resting her hand on her chin.

“Yeah. I thought it was a load too. But then…I’m a [Miner], or I was until my group ran into monsters in our shaft. We decided killing monsters was actually safer and more fun than mining. You can run into some nasty stuff down there. But with that said, we only mined in safe spots. Near towns. I hear that if you wander the High Passes, you can find hundreds, thousands of veins as rich as anything in Salazsar.”

“So you’re saying a Goblin could mine? And this Golden Goblin—why didn’t anyone catch him? It? If it had so much wealth.”

Earlia smiled around the table.

“Well, there’s the thing. All the teams who swore they’d met the Golden Goblin said they ‘nearly’ got him. They’d find him mining or catch his tribe’s trail. But here’s where it becomes a legend, right? Each time they’d nearly catch him, but the Goblin and his tribe would always get away. Rumor was he was loaded with treasure, so a lot of adventurers went after his tribe. But that stopped when they kept dying.”

“How?”

The other teams frowned around the table. Earlia shook her head. She tossed the nugget up and down, as Pyrite had done, eying it thoughtfully.

“He’d always drop some treasure and run off. And the adventurers would scramble to get it and miss the Goblin and his tribe. Sometimes it would be gemstones. Or rare ores, like gold. Always polished, right? And I mean, who wants to tangle with a Hob when you could pick up a gem? Sometimes, though, that would lead to adventurers fighting over the treasure. Even killing each other. Other times it led into traps.”

“Like what?”

Bevussa looked at Numbtongue. Earlia shrugged.

“One time I heard they found a bunch of treasure right below a cliff. It looked like a Goblin had fallen and dropped a ton of gemstones and gold nuggets. The two teams rushed to grab it. And guess what happened?”

“Avalanche?”

“Avalanche, pitfalls, even a bunch of diamonds at the bottom of a Creler’s nest. And it’s not like it happened often enough for people to say it was definitely one Goblin or even that it wasn’t just a team making up rumors. The Golden Goblin tale would pop up sixty miles north of Celum one day and then two hundred miles west in nine months. Eventually, the Golden Goblin rumors died out. Plenty of tribes get wiped each year. But no one ever found a hoard.”

The adventurers were silent. Earlia looked around and smiled. Her eyes locked on Numbtongue’s back. The Goblin was explaining something to Erin, who seemed amazed. And sad. And Mrsha seemed wondering.

“I’m just repeating a rumor. Anyways, this is good gold. Wonder where he found it. If our team had been this good at mining, we’d never have become adventurers.”

“It’s nothing special. He probably stole it from a monster’s nest.”

Keldrass muttered, slumped in his seat. Bevussa reached out and smacked his shoulder with one wing. She shook her wing arm, grimacing as the magical enchantment on the armor flared to life.

“Oh really? You want to fight Rockmites, Keldrass? Have a thousand of them crawling down your beak? Wander in caves looking for veins? Even with [Dangersense] and [Rock Scent], or some other Skill, that’s a brave Goblin.”

“It changes nothing.”

The Drake sulkily reached for his mug. Jelaqua sighed at last and raised her voice. The oldest adventurer present fixed Keldrass with one eye as all the adventurers looked at her and remembered who one of the Halfseekers had been.

“Keldrass. Whatever may have passed or not, you just met a Hobgoblin and had a conversation with him. In an inn, with dozens of people watching. Doesn’t that strike you as the least bit odd?”

The Drake hesitated. In the end, he said nothing. But it didn’t matter. The story wasn’t about him. As the night wore on, Numbtongue, who’d been smiling and looking happier than anyone could remember seeing him in a long time, stood up. He wandered to the stage in the back of the inn where the Players of Celum, exhausted after repeat performances, had vacated it. There he pulled up a chair and sat. And the inn watched as the [Bard] got his guitar out and slowly began to tune it.

Numbtongue sat on the stage and looked down at his crowd. They weren’t here for him. Some glared at him. Others shouted for him to get off until Erin threw stuff at them.

It was an unwilling audience. One that hated him, that watched out of morbid curiosity or fear. But so what? He wasn’t going anywhere. The Hobgoblin sat on the stage and searched for the right tune. The right words. They came to him. Despite him not liking singing, the urge rose.

So he began to play.



“Have you heard of the greatest Goblin warriors, the Redfang Tribe,

Who lived in the High Passes and ate Eater Goats and Gargoyles just to survive?”



Across the inn, guests looked up. That was the thing about music. Like it, hate it, it was hard to ignore. Numbtongue strummed and raised his voice.



“Our leader was Garen of the Redfang blade,

Who was an adventurer and his team betrayed

He made us and saved us and taught us how to fight,

A traitor maybe, but he did things that were right.”



Sitting at their table, Moore and Seborn looked up. Jelaqua drank from her mug and watched. Numbtongue went on, improvising, putting words together.



“This is the story of thirteen Redfangs he chose,

Who walked and travelled on no Goblin’s road

He sent us thirteen to kill an innkeeper,

But lost and confused, we didn’t know where to seek her!”



Erin spat out her drink onto Mrsha’s head. She gawped at Numbtongue. The Goblin stared off into the distance.



“This is the tale of the Goblins who roamed

The Goblins who fought and died until they found home.”



It was a ballad of rhymes. Rhymes were easy. Numbtongue barely had to think. All he had to do was remember. At first, there had been Esthelm. Quietly, he told the story of a chance encounter. A fight with the Silver Swords. And a girl. A skeleton.



“A [Florist] who was more Human than monster (who had impeccable taste)!

And so as not to let her sacrifice go to waste,

Thirteen Goblins fought at Esthelm that day

And only six walked away.”



No one knew that story here. No one had heard it told. But they had to hear it. Someone—anyone had to listen. Numbtongue recounted it, the deaths, the names. Grunter, Bitefly, Leftstep…

And on. Of Liscor. Of Bugear, who’d died before meeting Erin, but had died fighting for his brothers. Of the battles there. Face-Eater Moths. Raskghar. Face Stealer. And then the end. Not everyone was listening. But that one [Innkeeper] was, a few Drakes, a Gnoll child—and more listening with one ear, frowning, denying—it didn’t matter. They were listening.

Numbtongue shouted the last refrain.

“They are gone, but I remain!”

And he stood up. He didn’t expect applause. But he got it, scattered, a few hand claps. That was all, but that wasn’t the point. The point was the story. Their story. He sat down next to Erin, and she wiped her eyes. Pisces, who had been listening, cracked one eye open and looked at Ceria and Yvlon. The two female adventurers were quiet, introspective. He coughed.

“You couldn’t make a play about that.”

“Be quiet.”

Yvlon kicked him hard. He went silent. At their table, Erin turned to Numbtongue.

“What will you call it?”

The Hobgoblin shrugged.

“Needs work.”

And it did, but he had a title already in his head. A song.

The Ballad of the Redfangs.

Erin blew her nose.

“It’s good. But you know…”

“Yes?”

“You don’t have to surrender the stage after one song, Numbtongue. They can’t chase you off. And you don’t have to go. What if you played a song for us? Something we can sing to?”

The Hobgoblin looked at Erin. She smiled at him. And he looked over at Yellow Splatters. The Antinium had been staring at the [Bard]. The [Sergeant] spoke softly.

“The Antinium have no music. Bird sings. But that is all. If you have a song, I would like to hear it. And…sing?”

Numbtongue’s heart leapt. He stood up and walked back to the stage. Some of the audience groaned. Others shouted that they didn’t want to hear it. And a few looked at Numbtongue and turned their bodies and heads to listen. Only a few. The Goblin had never expected it to be easy.

But he’d remembered why he wanted to be a [Bard]. So he played. At first, a song Erin knew and could teach everyone the words to. Then a song he’d created. A riff, with lightning and thunderous chords. And then another song. And another.

Soon it wasn’t that a Goblin was singing a Goblin’s song, but just that he was there. A Goblin [Bard], reminding everyone of the past. Pyrite was in Numbtongue’s head. Not forgotten. And Headscratcher, Shorthilt, all the others, lived on in Numbtongue’s music. They wouldn’t be forgotten. Not yet.

They died. They left us. And we are alone. But we are not gone. Here we are. The guitar sang as Numbtongue stood alone, alone in front of a crowd. But he refused to run. He refused to hide. Here I am. Here we are. We made it. We remain. And we will never let you forget. Here we are. Look at us. See us.

Here we are.



——



Then it was done. Numbtongue sat in his room, dozing off with the sun. His claws hurt, and his throat was sore. But he wasn’t unhappy. He was tired. Oh, so tired. And the sun, usually a good incentive, couldn’t keep him awake. The Goblin nodded as he slowly put his guitar away, and then lay down on his bed. He’d probably wake up after nine hours. Six? Four if he needed to.

It might be hard when he woke up. Hard and unforgiving. But Numbtongue had something now. A friend. A reason to keep going, to stay at the inn. Memories. Today, they had helped him. Given him words he couldn’t have come up with himself. The skill to fight—they’d saved his life.

He would have traded all of it to have the Goblin who they belonged to sitting across from him, grunting and chewing on something as he always did. Numbtongue knew Pyrite now, though they had never spoken. He wished Pyrite had been alive to see him on that stage. To meet Erin. Him, Headscratcher, Shorthilt, and all the others. Numbtongue wished, and that was all. But he wasn’t unhappy. Just tired.

He closed his eyes.



[Conditions Met: Bard → Goblin Soulbard Class!]

[Goblin Soulbard Level 30!]

[Memory – Pyrite, Flooded Waters Tribe obtained!]

[Skill – A Minute, Reborn obtained!]

[Skill – Ballad of Bravery obtained!]



Slowly, Numbtongue opened his eyes.



——



A minute later, a Goblin sat in Numbtongue’s room. He felt tired. Physically, his body, at any rate. Intellectually, his mind was racing. And fresh! The Goblin looked around experimentally, blinking, and then felt at his body. He knew the body’s name. Its owner. That was Numbtongue. But he? He was different.

‘Pyrite’ scratched his stomach. He stopped, poked it experimentally, and wondered if a flat stomach and nimble body was better than fat in combat. Then he thought of who he was.

He could remember everything. He was Pyrite. And he was Numbtongue. The gaps between their personalities had disappeared, but also reformed. This wasn’t the confused jumble that Numbtongue had been forced to sort through when Pyrite had died.

This was different. Pyrite felt like himself, although that might be an illusion. More importantly, Pyrite could remember Numbtongue’s memories, but he was sure, in this moment, he was Pyrite. Only, one inclined to help Numbtongue. Well, that was fine. He would have done it anyways.

Wasn’t this confusing? Pyrite frowned and blew out his cheeks. He knew he didn’t have time to waste on puzzling out who was who, though. The Skill’s name had sounded explicit. [A Minute, Reborn]. Well, that was a time limit. And an inconvenient one, too.

One minute, so now probably thirty seconds. Pyrite hesitated, then decided he needed notes. He bent and, with Numbtongue’s finger, scribbled fast on the floorboards, cutting into them with his nail. Numbtongue didn’t know how to write because he’d never bothered, but he could read this note in case he forgot. There were so many thoughts bouncing around in Pyrite’s head, but he jotted down the most pressing ones as he spoke aloud.

“This class. Is it only for [Bards]? Why did you get it? Because of memory? Was that because so many Goblins died or because I tried? Is this memory here to stay, or does it fade?”

He paused, not too concerned by that. This was fascinating. Experimentally, he flexed one clawed hand and went back to writing.

“Do I remember this, or does Numbtongue remembering take over and I am new Pyrite with Numbtongue’s memories any time? Will I make him level up? Can I level up?”

Probably not. But Pyrite wrote it down just in case. He frowned. So many questions!

“Hm. Hmm. Greydath would know. Do I have Skills when I am reborn? Is it possible to make this longer? An hour? A day? Test me in the mountains or elsewhere. I have [Power Strike]—can’t use here. Lastly…”

Ten seconds. Pyrite could feel something tugging him. Yes. His time was coming to a close. And perhaps he could leave if need be. But he could also be called. When he was needed…his mind flashed from thought to thought, and then Pyrite’s eyes widened. With the last seconds, he wrote, scratching deep into the wooden floorboards.

Then he was gone. One second he was there, and then Numbtongue was staring down at his old thumb. He could sense what Pyrite had wanted to write, so he finished it. Then…Pyrite’s perspective, his intentions, faded away in Numbtongue’s mind like an old dream. The Hobgoblin shook. He could remember what Pyrite had done, even the vague intentions, but the exact reasoning and…personality were beyond him.

But the writing was clear. Numbtongue stared at it. Particularly the last lines. They burned so hot in him that his exhaustion disappeared in a moment. He stared down and read slowly, his voice shaking.

“The class is not new. The class is meant for you. Goblins have always had this power. When did we lose it? How?”

We have had this class. It is ours. [Goblin Soulbard]. Goblin. If Goblins have a class, do Humans? Do Drakes? What does it mean? Is it just memories? Is it a thing of [Chieftains]?

Those were Pyrite’s thoughts. But the words below them struck a chord deeper. They rocked Numbtongue to his core. Because they changed his purpose. The reason he was here. Trembling, he touched the scratches in the wood.

“Find the others if they remain. Find our King.”

He looked up. The inn was silent above him as a new day dawned. And the Goblin sat by himself. But he was no longer alone.

Slowly, the pieces of the world began to fall closer into place.





6.35


Day 54 – Ryoka



When the Wind Runner of Reizmelt woke up, she knew it would be another rainy day. Honestly, she was sick of them, but they were symptomatic of Izril in the spring. Wet.

And it was still better than Liscor, whose spring rain season was the thing of nightmares. Even so, as spring waned and became summer, the rains persisted. And yes, they were good for crops and all that. Ryoka was still tired of being wet.

She knew it would be a rainy day as soon as she woke to the drumming of rain on the roof above her room. But as Ryoka got up, she realized a few more things.

Firstly, she wasn’t in Reizmelt. She knew that because it was past dawn and Madain hadn’t been banging about, swearing and shouting for everyone to wake up!! Funny, but Ryoka almost missed that. And because her bed was freshly made, smelled of flowers, and the sheets had been washed by someone other than Ryoka.

She was in Walta, staying at the Rose’s Retreat, a very nice inn with a female [Innkeeper] who was accommodating and strict. Miss Iglesias Theroben had expressed a firm desire to Ryoka that her rooms not be sullied by impropriety or any untoward advances towards her all-female staff.

She obviously hadn’t been suspecting Ryoka of the latter, given how it seemed like most people in this world’s society didn’t acknowledge or even know about sexual orientations beyond being straight, but Ryoka was amused to know that the upstanding Miss Iglesias thought of Lady Bethal Walchaís as a paragon of virtue. She’d been too grateful for somewhere to sleep and for Miss Iglesias’ welcoming, if strictly proper, inn to shatter the woman’s beliefs.

That wasn’t her. And as Ryoka got up and dressed with the speed and efficiency that came to people who live in a hurry, she realized one last thing: it was going to be a bad day to run. She could still do it, but it would be a bad day.

Not a bad bad day, to be clear. A few days of rest had cleared the minor potion-sickness out of Ryoka’s veins and stomach and rejuvenated her after her now-famous run from Reizmelt to Walta, capital city of Lady Bethal’s lands. She felt good, today, in fact. Hungry. It was just that as soon as Ryoka had sensed then felt the wind outside howling in the rain, she’d known it was going to be a bad day.

The Rose’s Retreat was already bustling when the sleepy young woman exited her ground-floor room. Unlike other inns, the layout of this inn more closely resembled one of the cheap motels Ryoka had ‘run away’ to when she was sick of fighting with her father or trying to get her mother to agree to…anything. Like a good motel experience, breakfast was a buffet.

A very nice buffet. Ryoka saw the goat’s cheese being spread onto a bun first, then she smelled some cooked sausage and saw a delicate spread of garden-grown vegetables, fresh from Miss Iglesias’ own soil. Her stomach rumbled, but when she saw the somewhat portly, very gracious host, Ryoka stopped to greet her. There were such things as manners, and Ryoka wanted to mind hers.

“Ah, Miss Ryoka Griffin. A fair morning to you! I trust you weren’t awoken unduly early? The blessed rain woke me up earlier than I would have liked, but you Runners do keep early hours.”

The woman sighed as she turned to greet Ryoka, goat cheese and bun in hand. Ryoka eyed the bread and decided she was having that first with some of the roasted meat. Miss Iglesias’ inn might not have had the random excitement that was an attraction or a deterrent in Erin’s inn, or the dirt-cheap prices and unique…personality that was Madain’s inn. But it was arguably better than both.

Ryoka knew that was an insult to Erin, but did she have a dedicated [Cook] with [Advanced Cooking] and a host of other Skills like [Rising Dough] or [Two Hour Warmth]? Maybe her inn had changed, but Ryoka saw a [Maid]—not a [Barmaid], just a [Maid]—delicately arranging a gentle-smelling bouquet next to the dishes of warm, delicious food. Still warm, thanks to that Skill, and fresh as…

Ryoka’s mouth watered. Say what you will, and Erin did make a good pizza, but this was home-cooking and as much as you wanted of it.

Fresh and organic too, if that was your fancy. Ryoka would settle for delicious. She nodded politely to the smiling Miss Iglesias.

“Good morning to you too, Miss Iglesias. I’m not so sure it’ll be a fair one, though. The rain might clear up, but you shouldn’t count on hanging anything out; the wind will be blowing hard all day.”

Miss Iglesias glanced out of one of her glass windows with a frown.

“Really? My [Gardener] friend swore her [Weathersense] told her it would be only rainy tomorrow, but perfect for gardening later on if I wore boots. But if anyone would know, it would be you, wouldn’t it?”

Ryoka grimaced.

“I’m not an expert, Miss Iglesias, so don’t quote me on it. If I’m wrong, I’d be delighted. But…uh, this breakfast looks lovely.”

“Oh! I’m terribly sorry. Go on and enjoy yourself by all means. I imagine you’ll want to be up and about. Will you be staying another day?”

The woman stepped aside so Ryoka could fill a plate and chat at the same time. Biting into her first cheese-and-sausage roll—Miss Iglesias stood on no customs aside from the bit about hanky and panky and horrifically graphic displays of sex—she swallowed and then replied.

“I doubt it, Miss Iglesias. I have all my gear in my bag of holding here—I’m paid up, aren’t I?”

She patted the bag at her side. Miss Iglesias nodded.

“You’re free to leave, but I will keep your room open until tonight. If you wish to stay, you need only return. You have been a good guest.”

“Thank you.”

Ryoka smiled gratefully. Miss Iglesias was used to travellers, being one of the more popular inns for travellers to stop by. She had any number of rooms available, but keeping Ryoka’s open for a day was still generous.

Ryoka helped herself to a big breakfast—she might be eating rations on the road if she took the offer she’d gotten yesterday. She might have lingered to talk with Miss Iglesias, but a howl of wind against the windows made her, the innkeeper, and a few guests enjoying the early breakfast look up.

“What a storm. My garden will need no end of work after this.”

Exasperated, Miss Iglesias went to the window and peered outside. Ryoka grimaced, trying to imagine running in that, but—her internal sense told her the wind was upset. Yet that didn’t correlate to the rain. Indeed, it was just a light sprinkle now. Ryoka brightened; she could handle that. And the noise made her realize something else.

“Ah, Miss Iglesias, I might be taking off now. I’m very grateful for your hospitality…”

The woman turned and realized Ryoka was edging towards the door. She opened her mouth and then realized why Ryoka was in a hurry. So she smiled understandingly and reached out to shake Ryoka’s hand gently.

“Well, as I said, you’ve been very easy to look after. No messes, no blood or muck for my girls to tidy up—if you stop by Walta in the future, stay here by all means! I know you Runners, and I have no doubt I’ll see you again.”

Ryoka ducked her head, smiling.

“Thank you, Miss Iglesias. I’m normally around Reizmelt, but if I’m ever in the region for a delivery…”

She began to walk towards the door. But, too late, as Ryoka put one hand on the brass knob, she heard the sound she’d wanted to avoid. Clip-clop, clip-clop.

Ryoka cursed. Miss Iglesias sighed as she turned to greet another guest. Ryoka opened the door; there was still time to get away before—

“Good morning, Miss Iglesias! Ryoka! Hey, Ryoka, wait!”

A Centauress walked into the room. That wasn’t a euphemism. She trotted in, her shod hooves clattering on the floorboards as she navigated her way through the cozy inn. A Centaur.

Perhaps, if you had never met one, the idea of the half-human, half-horse species would be exotic. Fascinating. While that was certainly all true of the female Centaur, something else had to be pointed out. A Centaur was half-horse. And as such, the first consideration anyone in the nearby vicinity of a Centaur was—

Both Ryoka and Miss Iglesias stepped hurriedly out of the way as the Centauress clattered forwards. Her hooves touched the floor lightly, but the Centauress was still over seven feet in height, and she had to weigh…Ryoka thought about horses from her world. A ton?

At least. And this Centauress wasn’t even a big example of her species. Her horse parts didn’t resemble the huge draft horses, but rather a lighter riding horse. She had a tan hair coat with a few large, brown spots, pale brown skin, and blonde-gray hair, cut short, but styled—the Centauress trotted closer, and Ryoka leapt back again. She was barefoot, and she had no intention of having her foot broken by a stray hoof!

“Charlay, watch the hooves!”

The Centauress caught herself and checked her hoof placement. She tossed her head dismissively.

“What? I’m nowhere near your feet. Stop being such a foal, Ryoka. Hey, good thing I woke up, right? I nearly missed you. But for the rain and I would have slept in!”

She gestured outside at the clouds, which had decided to dump one last time before giving up. Ryoka eyed the Centauress. She had a light shirt on her upper half, concealing the place where her waist met the horse parts. Her lower half was bare today, although Ryoka had seen Charlay wearing a half-skirt or full dress that covered her horse bits. She eyed the street, but it was too late. Charlay smiled at the [Innkeeper], who gave her a polite smile of her own.

“Fair day to you as well, Charlay. How was your sleep?”

“Good. Thanks for the extra pillows. My legs were hurting from the ground yesterday. Ooh! Food’s already out?”

She eagerly trotted over to the buffet and inspected it.

“Just what I wanted. Ryoka, stick around. I want to eat first.”

The Asian girl groaned. Charlay never woke up this early. Both times before she’d been up in the late morning. But after a second of staring out of the inn, she closed the door and walked back to the buffet. Miss Iglesias gave Ryoka a sympathetic smile.

“Hey, Charlay. Good to see you. I’m probably leaving today—”

“That’s fine. I’ll run with you to the Guild. Hey, you want this?”

The Centauress waved a bowl, and Ryoka saw what she was eating for breakfast. It was a bowl of boiled, steaming…

Oats. As bland as licking wheat seasoned with white rice on top of unsalted porridge with a bit of whole-grain bread for that rare contrast in flavor. Ryoka and Miss Iglesias watched as Charlay happily filled a bowl with the stuff and added some grains of brown sugar and bits of pepper flakes.

Ryoka resigned herself to another helping and took about four times the pepper that Charlay had to add to a lovely browned sausage with some eggs. She liked the flavor, and the pepper wasn’t so much hot as sweet to her palate. But Charlay blew out her cheeks halfway through her bowl.

“Hot! This is spicy stuff, Miss Iglesias! You should warn people, or they might get indigestion!”

The Human woman raised her eyebrows, but only nodded and took Charlay’s suggestion ‘under advisement’. Ryoka waited as Charlay ate one bowl, then another, and coughed.

“I need to be going—”

“What’s the hurry? I’m done, I guess. Good food, Miss Iglesias. Thanks for putting it out for me.”

The Centauress craned her upper body to speak to the woman while her horse half shuffled around towards the door. Miss Iglesias pulled a chair out of the way; Ryoka just stood back. Charlay was bigger than Calruz, both in height and body. And in a building built for Humans, she was like an elephant. Or a horse.

“Not a problem, my dear. Will you want supper? Or lunch?”

Charlay shook her head impatiently.

“I’m done. And I’ve paid my room; I don’t know if I’ll be back, but I’m packed up. Let’s go, Ryoka.”

She trotted towards the door without even saying goodbye. Ryoka went back to Miss Iglesias and shook her hand again.

“Thank you again, Miss Iglesias.”

“Best of luck, Ryoka dear. And you too, Charlay.”

“Oh. Yeah. Thanks!”

The Centauress turned her upper half, nearly out of the door. Ryoka sighed and followed her. She found the Centauress outside, stretching.

“Good food, right? I like staying at the Rose’s Retreat. It doesn’t have stairs, and Miss Iglesias gets oats just for me. You liked it?”

“Yup. It was great.”

“Awesome. Stay away from me. I don’t need you throwing up on me again.”

Ryoka paused as she stretched out her own legs. The Centauress smirked at her. She worked in the region around Walta as a well-known City Runner. And she was good at her job; so good that Ryoka had given up trying to lose her. Now the Centauress pointed in the direction of the Runner’s Guild.

“Come on, let’s run to the Guild. The streets aren’t that wet, and the rain’s stopped. Last one there is a mule!”

So saying, she took off. Ryoka watched her go and kept stretching; after three dozen feet, the Centauress noticed Ryoka wasn’t following and galloped back. She scowled at the young woman.

“Slowpoke. Afraid to race me?”

“I’m stretching. And I’m not racing.”

“Afraid I’ll beat you again?”

Ryoka sighed.

“You’re a Centaur. I don’t race things with four legs.”

“That’s not what you said last time. Or the time before that. Come on, afraid I’ll beat you a third time?”

The young woman refused to rise to the bait. She took off running with a slow, contained pace, and after a moment, Charlay followed her. Then, at least, Ryoka had some peace. She ran down the streets of Walta, still slick with rain and deserted for the moment. The rains had kept everyone indoors, so the two female Runners proceeded down the street at a quick jog by Ryoka’s standards.

As they ran, Ryoka admired the city of Walta where she had been staying. She would be sorry to say goodbye to it. The streets were smoothed, and one-in-three buildings that Ryoka passed had glass instead of shutters. The city was lovely, like Amsterdam, but minus the canals and water. It was one of the most modern cities Ryoka had visited, aside from Invrisil, and the reason behind that was because Walta was about two or three times as rich as Reizmelt.

“You’re so slow.”

Charlay complained as her hooves clattered across the stones. Ryoka sighed. She couldn’t even admire the city in peace. Not that she was one for admiration anyways; two more seconds and she’d have gotten bored. She looked at Charlay as her arms pumped at her sides; the Centauress was folding her arms and eying Ryoka as her legs easily kept pace.

That was another thing Ryoka had learned about Centaurs recently; because they could run and do things independently with their horse and human halves, they loved to chat while running. It was harder for Ryoka, who was running with her entire body, but she could still respond.

“I just ate. You’re a horse.”

“Centauress. Don’t be rude.”

“Sorry, my mistake. You’re so different.”

Charlay bared her teeth, much like an angry horse would.

“We are! We’re intelligent, leveling creatures. Not like animals at all! Are you a monkey?”

“Fairly close. I’ll acknowledge the link and resemblance. You’re even closer. Half your body is horse. It’s pretty much the same thing.”

The Centauress turned scarlet. Ryoka grinned to herself—their relationship was already well established by this point too. Charlay was easy to annoy. The Centauress snorted angrily as she ran ahead of Ryoka.

“It is not the same thing. Do you think I’m like one of those things?”

She pointed down the street. Ryoka saw the rider and shifted left. Charlay made room, and the rider rode down the right side of the street. He was riding a roan, a quite energetic one. It whickered as the two Runners ran past; Charlay flipped it off. The rider looked affronted, so Charlay cupped her hands and shouted back at him.

“Not you, the horse!”

“What was that about?”

Ryoka stared at Charlay. The Centauress folded her arms.

“He was checking me out. Damn animals.”

“You understood that horse? And you’re seriously saying you’re that different from them?”

Charlay looked blank.

“Obviously I can understand them. They’re animals. It’s not hard. You can’t understand monkeys? That’s your problem. I’m pretty sure they can understand me.”

“I—haven’t actually met that many monkeys.”

“Huh. I guess Izril doesn’t have that many. I saw them all the time in parts of Baleros. Hey! What’re you looking at?”

The female Centaur snapped at another rider’s horse passing by. Ryoka just shook her head. The streets were filling, and a good number of riders were filling it. More than average; Walta was a horse-city, catering towards treatment of the animals, saddles, stables, training, breeding, and more. The horses Walta produced were of a superior stock than most; if you wanted to get a proper warhorse or even a good riding horse, you’d look for a Walta horse or come to the city itself.

Horses. In a world where automobiles and mass-transport were wagons, they were incredibly valuable. They’d made Walta and Lady Bethal rich. These were her lands, after all, and Ryoka had stayed in the city after making Bethal’s emergency delivery alerting her people of the rift between her and a number of factions in Izril. She was at war—in a political and, to some degree, real sense—but the city was peaceful still.

“Charlay, you know I work around Reizmelt normally. I might be going back there today.”

Ryoka decided to broach the subject at last. The Centauress snorted.

“You might. Or you might take that very lucrative delivery down south. Where was it again?”

“I thought personal deliveries were supposed to be personal. So what if I do? It’s none of your business. Why have you been dogging me for three days? Do you like me that much?”

“Hah! Don’t make me laugh. I’m just scoping out my competition. Everyone’s making a fuss about your little run from Reizmelt to Walta; I’m not impressed. You might have a few unique Skills, but let’s remember who the better Runner is here.”

“Me?”

“Me! Don’t get overconfident, Ryoka. I’m a well-known City Runner around here. I have a nickname! Dustrider Charlay. I earned it after running in this area for two years.”

“I have a nickname too—”

The Centauress glared at Ryoka as they turned left down a street.

“Shut up! See, that’s your problem, Ryoka. You’re infringing on my turf. And my theme.”

“Your theme.”

“That’s right. I was doing this first, so I have dibs on the dust theme. I don’t mind you being the Wind Runner, but if people call you Duststorm Ryoka—just because you can make a bigger cloud doesn’t mean you get to take my nickname! I’m the Dustrider! Dustrider Charlay!”

For emphasis, Charlay slapped her chest. Ryoka just stared at her. She could have sworn Charlay was her age, maybe a bit younger. But the way she acted…Ryoka thought about being the adult, but it was too tempting.

“I hear they call you Dusty Charlie.”

The Centauress’ face went scarlet. Ryoka had to laugh. She saw Charlay stiffen, then gallop ahead. If she had a horse’s ears, Ryoka was sure they would have been flat. Charlay widened the gap between her and Ryoka until she was right in front of the girl, and Ryoka wondered if she’d take off to the guild or just do that the entire rest of the way. Instead, the Centauress shouted.

“[Spray Hoof]!”

“No, don’t you d—”

Ryoka shouted in outrage, but it was too late. One of Charlay’s hooves kicked backwards, striking a handy clump of exposed earth on the street where a cobblestone had been uprooted. Normally, she’d kick up a cloud of dust, hence her name. This time, though, the result was a huge splatter of mud and water.

“Gah! Damn it, Charlay!”

The young Human woman stopped as the mud splattered her front and face. She wiped at it, and Charlay trotted back, looking smug.

“Don’t insult me, Pukey. You threw up on me, remember? As far as I’m concerned, this is the least you deserve.”

Ryoka gritted her teeth. Then her eyes widened. She pointed.

“Oh shit. Is that a snake on the ground?”

“Gyaaaaah!”

The Centauress jumped and ran screaming from what was, in fact, a line of horse crap. She turned to Ryoka, shaking.

“Don’t joke about that! Snakes aren’t funny!”

Ryoka chuckled as she wiped the worst of the muck off her face. Charlay glared, and Ryoka stepped back in case she tried to bite. The two regarded each other in the damp street. Ryoka sighed.

“Now I’m dirty. Truce?”

“Fine. Truce. Here.”

Charlay tossed something at Ryoka. The young woman blinked.

“What is it?”

“Drying stone. Use it on the mud. It’ll probably get all of it. Don’t worry if it runs out; they’re cheap.”

“Thanks.”

Ryoka did just that. The stone didn’t break or disintegrate, and she handed it back. The two ran on. Charlay huffed as she ran next to Ryoka.

“I can’t believe you’re so mean to me. All the time! And I was nice to you even though you were so rude at the start.”

“I’m an awful person. You should know that by now.”

Charlay hesitated.

“Well, you’re better than a lot of other Humans. No one else’ll talk to me, much less talk back. Half of you lot are too scared to talk! The other half just act like I’m an idiot or…weird.”

“I don’t think there are many Centaurs in Izril.”

“There aren’t. But it’s not like I’m rare. There are just too many Humans! We’re all over the place in Baleros, especially the middle. The south’s mostly Lizardfolk and Gazers in the jungles. And Humans. You lot get everywhere. And the north is too cold for anyone but Dullahans.”

“But not many in Izril, right?”

“Nope. And it’s a shame. Izril has these lovely flat places, especially in the north. If it wasn’t for the need to cross the ocean on boats, I think there would be tens of thousands of us here.”

The Centauress shuddered. Ryoka regarded her thoughtfully. Three days had taught Ryoka a lot about Charlay, if only because the Centauress had stuck to her like glue. She had a horse’s palate for bland foods; she couldn’t handle spices, and she went absolutely nuts for salty, savory stuff. She was afraid of snakes, had a temper, got seasick just staring at a bathtub—

Oh, and she held grudges.

“You know, if you didn’t keep insulting how fast I run and calling me the ‘Puke Runner’ or ‘Pukey’ or ‘Ryoka the Vomitter’, I’d be nicer to you.”

Charlay turned her head and glared.

“You threw up. On me. Where’s my apology?”

“Lying somewhere on the road with the last fourteen apologies I gave you. Will you give it a rest? Why are you really following me? It’s not for the fun. Don’t you have a job to do? You haven’t made one delivery since I got here.”

“I don’t have to take jobs all the time. I’m a successful City Runner. What, do you spend all your coin after each delivery in the taverns?”

“No…”

“Then what’s the problem? Jeeze, why are you so rude? You’re the rudest Human I’ve met, you know. And that includes a lot of my clients!”

Ryoka sighed. Walta’s Runner’s Guild appeared on the edge of the city at last. It was sprawling and had a stable attached—a lot of the local Runners used horses. It wasn’t economical for Runners in general, but the city was good for horses, and there was a lot of flatland around. Charlay trotted in first and didn’t hold the door open for Ryoka. To be fair, it would’ve been hard with her body shape, but she was at the [Receptionist]’s desk, pawing the floorboards, when Ryoka walked over.

“We’re here! Hey, Jilta! Ryoka’s here to take that personal request!”

Charlay called out loudly. Ryoka sighed as some of the Runners in the Guild looked up. She’d met a lot of them the last two days, and some waved at her in a friendly way. She waved and smiled back and was grateful for Charlay’s presence for the first time; but for her, the others might have come over to talk to her.

It was true that Ryoka’s run had been noted, if not by the entire world then by the local Runners and those interested in such things. Her run hadn’t been the fastest, but it had been for a [Lady] of renown, and Ryoka had beaten a number of groups aiming to intercept her. It hadn’t been easy; Ryoka had paid a price for using so many potions and calling on the wind. But she’d done it, and the fruit of her labor was the attention she gathered. And Charlay following her.

The [Receptionist] at the desk sighed as Ryoka stepped up. She gave Charlay a sharp look that the Centauress innocently returned.

“Charlay! You can’t announce things like that on Ryoka’s behalf, much less publicly! There are rules, you know!”

“I could do it in Baleros. They didn’t care there. Besides, everyone knows you can get information for free from the [Brokers].”

“Not in this Guild. If you’re not in line, step back. Runners get privacy.”

“What? But I—”

“Back, Charlay.”

The [Receptionist] pointed. Grumbling, Charlay did retreat until she probably couldn’t hear what was being said at the desk. The [Receptionist] watched her sharply, and the Centauress innocently turned her head. The woman at the counter had dealt with the Centauress before; that was clear from the long-suffering sigh she let out. She looked at Ryoka apologetically.

“I’m sorry, Miss Griffin. Is she still following you about?”

“It’s fine.”

The [Receptionist], Jilta, the same woman who’d helped Ryoka on the first day by making her puke the potions that were poisoning her and getting the Knights of the Petal, gave Ryoka a rueful smile.

“She’ll get bored in time. She just…fixates on other City Runners, especially female ones around her age and level. She’s very competitive. Now, can I help you? Are you going to take the request from yesterday? The sender is, ah, waiting on a reply.”

Jilta said it delicately, but Ryoka knew she was very interested. As interested as Charlay had been; the Centauress had bugged Ryoka all about it yesterday. A personal request? With money backed by two [Lords]? Asking Ryoka to deliver a handful of potions to Riverfarm?

It made no sense. But Ryoka, who knew who the real sender was, had thought hard over it last night. Laken Godart had asked her for help, and after thinking it over, there was only one real answer she could give. She slowly nodded.

“I…think I will.”

She had a lot to say to Laken, and he had a lot to explain, but visiting Riverfarm was essential in either case. Jilta nodded sharply and reached under the counter.

“Very well. It’s a priority delivery, although there’s no time frame on it; I have, er, six healing potions and three stamina potions here.”

She offered Ryoka a satchel. The Runner pulled out her bag of holding.

“I’ve got a bag.”

“Ah, well, place them inside—you’ll need to deliver them straight to Lady Rie Valerund. They’re…just generic potions we bought from the local [Alchemist]. The request did say to do that, but…”

Jilta looked at Ryoka, and only her professionalism kept her from asking the obvious. Who paid that much gold to get a bunch of potions you could get anywhere? The answer had to be that it was either something that had to be delivered personally—a message or secret item with the potions—or the Runner herself. Ryoka smiled and didn’t explain.

“I’ll get it there as fast as I can. Can I see a map?”

“Of course.”

The [Receptionist] pulled one out. Ryoka studied the route to Riverfarm; it was south of Walta and Bethal’s lands, southwest of Invrisil, a bit of land in the shadow of a small mountain not claimed by any noble house. The Valerund family, whose [Lady] was apparently in Riverfarm, had a small area of influence, but they were a day’s journey away from Riverfarm.

“Looks straight enough. I’ll be going through this marsh—I hate marshes. But aside from that, it’s straight. Thanks, I’ll head out right away.”

Ryoka nodded at Jilta. The [Receptionist] smiled.

“Of course. If you want to come back this way, I can do the confirmation. But of course, any large Runner’s Guild can handle it. Even so, we’d be happy to see you here again, Miss Griffin. You’ve been the talk of the Guild since your dramatic delivery.”

Ryoka felt her face heat up. Jilta was in her late twenties, a former Runner herself. Ryoka didn’t recall much of what had happened when she’d staggered into the Guild—she recalled throwing up on Charlay, and the Centauress reminded her of that every few seconds—but she also remembered Jilta helping her puke onto the floor. Ryoka cleared her throat.

“I’m really grateful for all the help. I was an imposition with the wind, the sand…”

Jilta waved that away.

“It was a request from Lady Walchaís. And this is my job. As I said, you’re welcome back here. And you’re easier to deal with than…”

She nodded at Charlay. Ryoka grinned and ducked her head.

“Thanks again.”

She turned to go and jumped. Someone else was waiting in line with Charlay. Only, this woman wasn’t a Runner. A woman in bright pink armor with a shock of grey in her black hair nodded to Ryoka as she tucked her helmet under one arm. Ryoka stared at the Knight of the Petal as Charlay blinked and stepped out of the way. The Runners in the Guild and Jilta looked up. There was a flurry of bows as the [Knight] strode forwards. The woman halted in front of Ryoka and offered her a slight formal bow.

“Miss Griffin. Good morning to you.”

“Dame Truvia. Uh—how can I help you?”

Ryoka recognized one of the senior Knights of the Petal, one of the protectors of Walta. Dame Truvia was a Knight of the Petal, like the others that Ryoka had met. Lady Bethal’s personal order of [Knights]. They garnered a lot of respect from Walta’s citizens, but also in general; the Knights of the Petal were a fairly powerful order of [Knights] for their size, or so Ryoka gathered. Truvia’s presence certainly had an effect on the rest of the guild. Jilta bowed again.

“Dame Truvia! I’m terribly sorry to keep you waiting. We’re just opening—how can I help you?”

She was poised, ready to attend to any of the [Knight]’s needs at once. Truvia smiled, her stern face warming slightly.

“I have no need of your assistance, Miss Griffin. Nor do I need to place an order, Miss Receptionist. I am simply here to check up on Miss Ryoka’s condition.”

“With me?”

Ryoka blinked. Charlay was staring behind her. Truvia nodded.

“Lady Bethal was most impressed with your run, especially the…spectacle of it. She ordered me to check up on you before you left.”

“That’s kind of her. Er, Lady Bethal was very generous. If she has any other requests, I would be happy to take them.”

Ryoka bowed awkwardly. Sending a [Knight] just to see if she was well was strange. But Bethal Walchaís defined the word. Ryoka distinctly recalled the woman. Passionate and strange barely described her. Truvia nodded, looking Ryoka up and down.

“I’m sure Lady Bethal will remember you. It is just a formality. Forgive me for imposing.”

She bowed to Ryoka and Jilta. There was something so graceful about her humility. Impressive too; the woman was almost everything Ryoka wanted to be at her age of around…forty? Fifty? Except for the pink.

“Not at all, Dame Truvia. It’s an honor to have you in the Guild. Can I offer you refreshments? Anything else…?”

Jilta was fussing over the woman, star-struck as if Truvia were a minor celebrity. Which…she was. Ryoka stepped back, and Charlay trotted forwards. Breathless, the Centauress held out a hand.

“Dame Truvia? Dustrider Charlay at your service. I’m the best Runner in Walta, and if you have any needs, any at all—”

Truvia turned politely to Charlay, barely blinking over the Centauress. Ryoka saw Jilta’s face color, and the [Receptionist] chased Charlay away. Charlay trotted back, looking hurt.

“I’m just making an impression. Sheesh! No one else in this Guild does it, but why not?”

Ryoka shrugged.

“I think that’s another thing they do in Baleros but not here.”

“Hah. Baleros is more open. Here’s too much about etiquette. I could talk to a Named Adventurer or famous leader of a Company in Baleros. Okay, maybe not Marian if I saw her, but that’s different.”

Charlay huffed as she watched Truvia speaking with Jilta and a few Runners who’d decided to follow Charlay forwards. She stared at the Rose Knight’s armor, clearly impressed. Then she bumped Ryoka with her hindquarters.

“One of Lady Bethal’s personal [Knights] here just to make sure you didn’t sprain an ankle. And you got to do a delivery for her! You got lucky. If I was there, I’d have done the run in half the time and with half as much puke!”

“Yeah, yeah. You’re not that much faster.”

Ryoka glared at Charlay. She hated to admit it, but the Centauress really was faster than her. Charlay refused to be placated though. She tossed her head again and stamped a hoof.

“Not that much faster? I’m twice as fast as you. Just check the rankings! Any [Broker] could tell you how good you are, if you’re important. I am. I suppose you are now. But I’m still better. You barely qualify for Courier rank, and you were out for two days recovering after that! I’m well faster.”

“I know the rankings.”

Ryoka folded her arms. She hadn’t known they’d existed until Fierre told her about them. And she’d seen the ones Jilta kept as a [Receptionist].

“It says your endurance needs work. And you have a lower combat ranking than me.”

“That’s just—”

The two were pleasantly bickering as Ryoka walked towards the door. Then the door opened and let another Runner in. At least, Ryoka assumed she was a Runner. A young woman with a shock of light blue hair walked into the Guild. That caught Ryoka’s eye first. The hair color. Then she took in the entire young woman and blinked.

The woman was in her late twenties, had blue hair, a hat, and robes. Her hat was slightly pointed, but angled, swooping off to a point behind her. And both her robes and hat were that of a [Mage]. But her body, the way she walked, all spoke to Ryoka of someone who was athletic. Her irises were a bright, pale pink.

She was striking. But there was one other reason Ryoka stared. She felt a strange tugging at her chest, almost like the sense that told her the wind wouldn’t obey any of her commands today unless Ryoka really pushed. It was odd, unfamiliar—

The young woman walked into the guild and noticed Ryoka and Charlay in her way. Rather than walk past them, she stopped and stared. There was nothing apologetic or furtive about the way she did it; she just stopped and looked both up and down.

“So you’re the Wind Runner, huh? Interesting. And here’s Charlay, already following you about. Hi, horse-girl. Anything interesting about?”

The introduction caught Ryoka off-guard. She winced, expecting Charlay to have a snappy response, but the Centauress froze.

“A—Alevica! I—I wasn’t doing anything. I was just talking with Ryoka.”

The strange new Runner eyed Charlay as the Centauress backed up and tried to hide behind Ryoka. She had a piercing stare, and when she smiled—Charlay grabbed Ryoka’s shoulder, and Ryoka felt the Centauress’ hands shaking slightly.

“Fine. Hey, you are the Wind Runner, right? You feel like the wind.”

Surprised, Ryoka turned back to the stranger. She’d assumed her face was known, but perhaps not.

“That’s me.”

“The name’s Alevica. City Runner, like you. I hear you’re good. Slow, but you conjured a storm. I saw it. Let’s get along.”

The hand was slim but strong when Ryoka grasped it, and Alevica’s smile seemed genuine. Although there was a reserve there…she wasn’t challenging or anything. Ryoka almost thought she’d like Alevica’s boldness and the clear way she gave no care to how others saw her. Charlay trembling behind Ryoka gave her pause.

“Of course. I’m on a job, but if I see you around, I’d love to talk.”

“Sure. Something like that.”

Alevica nodded. Then she looked at Charlay, grinned, tugged on her hat, and walked past the two.

“I’ll see both of you around. It’s a small continent.”

She strode up to the counter, past Truvia and the other Runners, all of whom drew back at the sight of her. Jilta looked up sharply, and Ryoka noted her wary expression as well. Ryoka pointed at Alevica’s back.

“Who’s that, Charlay?”

“Alevica. Don’t point! And don’t say anything bad about her!”

“Why? Is she some hotshot Runner?”

Ryoka didn’t see it. Alevica seemed fit, but her calves didn’t speak of a runner to her. But she did have good ears. She turned her head and grinned as Jilta fumbled with something at the desk. Charlay whispered as she tried to pull Ryoka further back.

“She’s really good. Really good.”

“Better than you, the best City Runner in Walta?”

At the desk, Alevica burst out laughing. It was loud and mocking. The other Runners looked uneasy. Charlay paled. She whispered in Ryoka’s ear.

“Don’t quote me! That was a boast! Are you stupid? She’s faster than you or me in short distance travel. And she has the levels and Skills to be a Courier. But there’s more to passing the Runner’s Guild’s tests than just speed. Obviously.”

Even scared, Charlay still managed to find a way to be insulting. Ryoka blinked. That good? And if Charlay said so—why was she so afraid? She whispered to the Centauress.

“What’s holding her back?”

Charlay stared at Ryoka.

“The fact that it’s Alevica? You really haven’t heard of her? She’s famous around all the local Guilds! Reizmelt has to know of her!”

“I don’t keep up on other Runners.”

“Well, remember her! Alevica’s one of the least-trusted Runners, even though she’s a good one. She opens mail, threatens other Runners—and she’ll throw away important packages rather than deliver them if the client insults her! She could be a low-tier Courier, but you have to be sponsored to become a Courier, and no Courier or any of the local Guildmasters will vouch for her.”

Ryoka whistled. That was exactly the kind of Runner she didn’t want to be. The ones with the lowest reputations almost never got personal requests, or if they did, the requests were shady and dangerous. On the other hand, you could make good money doing what Alevica apparently did—if you didn’t mind attracting the wrath of your clientele. But from the way Alevica turned and grinned at Charlay, she didn’t mind the rumors about her.

At the desk, Jilta was fumbling with a paper. She didn’t look happy, but she eventually nodded and pulled something out. Ryoka blinked as she recognized a metal box sealed with a magical lock. Jilta looked at Alevica.

“We do have one Steel-box delivery. It’s worth eighteen gold coins and seven silver if you manage it. The penalty is double, but—”

“I’ll take it.”

Alevica interrupted Jilta and casually reached into a pouch. She pulled out gold coins and began counting them onto the counter carelessly. Ryoka and Charlay stared. Ryoka muttered out of the corner of her mouth to Charlay.

“A Steel-box delivery?”

“I didn’t know we had one. I’m glad, though; I’m not paying that price! It must be a dangerous request!”

Ryoka nodded slowly. Steel-box deliveries were a form of request she’d been introduced to in the north. Sometimes someone wanted something delivered, but the cost of it being intercepted was too high, and they might be wary about Runners risking their wrath. So what any citizen could do was post a high price on a delivery, but require a Runner to put their own gold on the line by way of insurance. If Alevica failed this delivery, she’d have to pay double the fee for success.

Naturally, this was a high-stakes delivery, and the Runner’s Guilds usually demanded to know what was worth the risk. Steel-box deliveries weren’t often picked up and usually only confident or desperate City Runners or Couriers would take them. Alevica was clearly the former; she grabbed the box and headed for the door before Jilta had explained more than the destination.

“Wait, Alevica! The danger’s—”

“Don’t know, don’t care. Just have my gold when I get back.”

The City Runner tipped her hat and flashed Jilta a mocking smile. The [Receptionist] stopped, frowning, but she let Alevica go. Ryoka was impressed. She didn’t like the risk aspect of Steel-box deliveries. You put not only your reputation but your own money on the line. And any delivery for a Steel-box delivery was guaranteed to have some peril during it.

As if she could read Ryoka’s mind, Alevica stopped and turned to the City Runner. She tapped the metal box with one hand.

“If you’ve the guts, try taking on one of these. The pay’s good, and sometimes it’s worth more not to deliver. We’ll see with this, won’t we?”

“Runner Alevica! You’re obligated to obey the Runner’s Guild rules—”

Jilta’s voice fell on deaf ears. Alevica strode out the door with the box under one arm. Charlay stared from behind Ryoka until she was gone and then exhaled slowly.

“Wow. She’s the one person I didn’t want to meet today. Let’s get going before she decides to come back and cast a spell on us all or something.”

“Cast a spell…? Hold on, I’m going on my delivery. Sorry, Charlay, but this is where we part. It’ll take me days to get to my destination, and if I’m back in the area, we can meet again…”

Ryoka blinked and tried to walk towards the door. But the Centauress, suddenly bold and bothersome again, just snorted.

“What? No. I’m bored, so I’m coming with you. I’ll keep you company. Two Runners are better than one, right?”

She trotted towards the door to the Guild. Ryoka stared at her.

“You want to follow me?”

“Yup. I want to see you actually run. Come on, where’re we going? And for who? You can tell me when we’re on the way if Jilta—”

Charlay winced as the [Receptionist] strode around her desk. Jilta waved a finger as the Centauress danced backwards.

“Miss Charlay, you cannot follow another Runner on her request, especially not a personal delivery!”

“But Jilta—”

“You’ve bothered Ryoka Griffin enough. Your behavior reflects on Walta’s Guild, and if you follow her, I’ll issue you a penalty—”

“It’s fine.”

Ryoka’s voice made both Centaur and Human turn. Jilta blinked at Ryoka.

“Miss Griffin, you don’t have to accommodate Charlay. I don’t care how Baleros does things, but here—”

“No, it’s fine, Jilta. I don’t think my client will mind. And I’ll take some company for the road.”

Ryoka glanced at Charlay. The Centauress looked delighted, then instantly tilted her head up and looked superior.

“I’m only doing it because I want to see how good you are, Ryoka. And to prove that I can outrun you any day of the week.”

“I’m sure.”

The tone needled Ryoka, but she’d caught the look on Charlay’s face. So had Jilta. The [Receptionist] pursed her lips, but slowly nodded.

“If you’re fine with it, Miss Ryoka. But I’m warning you, Charlay. If Miss Ryoka complains or claims you interfered with her in any way—”

“I’m just running with her! It’ll be fine.”

The Centauress rolled her eyes. She trotted towards Ryoka, and the Runner nodded. They were heading towards the doors at last when a last person stopped them. Dame Truvia. She approached the two and put her helmet on.

“You’re leaving on a delivery, Miss Griffin? Allow me to accompany you.”

Charlay’s jaw dropped. Ryoka blinked up at the pink [Knight].

“Me? But why?”

The older [Knight] smiled as she raised the visor to her helmet.

“Lady Bethal also bade me to ride with you. She would not wish you to suffer injury on her lands.”

“But I—”

Ryoka stared at Truvia, thought of Bethal, and then gave up. This was overkill, but Ryoka didn’t want to waste any more time. Charlay trotted out, and the two saw that Truvia’s horse was already being led out of the stables. The horse had pink armor, like the rider. Charlay shook her head.

“You are so lucky. I’ve been trying to get a request from Lady Walchaís myself! Apparently, she tips really well—and now you get an escort?”

“Will you be riding with us all the way, Dame Truvia?”

Ryoka called to the [Knight]. Dame Truvia mounted up in one motion and nodded down at Ryoka. Her voice was slightly muffled, but entirely distinct.

“As far as the outskirts of Walchaís lands, or if an incident takes me. I am on patrol. Don’t trouble yourself, however; set whatever pace you please. I’ll keep up.”

The nonchalant air of the [Knight] as she sat on her horse in full armor made Ryoka raise her brows and Charlay snort. The Centaur and Human Runners looked at each other. A [Knight] was one thing, but this? This was their job. They grinned at each other.

“Nice and slow then, right, Charlay?”

“Sure. Hey, can you use your wind-thing? You can conjure a breeze, right?”

Ryoka hesitated. She looked up. The wind was still blowing hard. The rain had stopped, but Ryoka still felt it. It was angry, wild—why? Ryoka reached for it and finally understood.

Ah, that was it. Out there, somewhere, someone was trying to control the wind. And it was pissed.

“Nope. Feels like a [Weather Mage] or someone’s doing something to the wind. It’s out of my control today. Or rather, I wouldn’t risk it.”

She’d tried it once on a day like today. The wind had thrown her into a wagon. Charlay shrugged, her hair blowing in the strong gusts.

“Maybe it’s Alevica. She’s got a lot of weird abilities. Fine. Your legs still work without your wind?”

“All the time. We’re heading south. Dame Truvia, can you keep up?”

“After you.”

The [Knight] watched as Ryoka lowered herself into a Runner’s starting position. Charlay just tensed. The two took off like a shot, racing down the street, startling Truvia’s horse. She calmed it and laughed as the two Runners raced out of the city. Then she dug her heels into her horse’s side, and it raced after the two.



—–



Ryoka ran out of Walta with Charlay by her side. She raced across the outskirts, the suburbs that had sprung out around the city, and across wide, flat land devoted to farmland or pastures for the horses.

Walta, no, the lands of Lady Bethal Walchaís were rich. It reminded Ryoka of a true medieval world, only with less poverty and more Arthurian romance. A world, a time that had never truly existed in her world as far as Ryoka knew. But it existed here.

[Farmers] tending fields as prosperous—if not as scrumptious—as the corn fields tended to by Farmer Lupp looked up as Ryoka and Charlay raced down the road. They waved at the Runners, amused by the competition and Charlay heckling Ryoka as she maintained a horse’s length of lead on the Human girl. Then they bowed or cheered the Knight of the Petal, Dame Truvia, as she calmly followed the two Runners.

She was fast! Dame Truvia had a Skill that allowed her to keep pace with Charlay and Ryoka despite the armor. Or her horse was magical. Or simply a superior breed. Ryoka was the slowest of the three, and she slowed the breakneck run as soon as it became clear that she wasn’t about to lose Truvia. Charlay slipped into an even run beside Ryoka, and they just enjoyed running. It was what they did.

The lands of House Walchaís passed Ryoka by, green and verdant, growing from the spring rains. Ryoka saw people looking up and waving at her—not just at Charlay and Truvia. They recognized her.

“That’s the Wind Runner! Hey, you! Don’t blow any more dirt into my fields! And do something about this wind, will you?”

A [Farmer] raised her hoe as Ryoka passed by. The young woman raised a hand, slightly embarrassed, and Charlay waved with both arms as well. Ryoka had passed down this same road on her way to Walta—through a few fields too. At the time, she’d been so tired she hadn’t noticed, but she’d dragged a dust storm through any number of farms and down roads—even through a village! Part of the last few days had been coming out here and apologizing for the destruction, even offering payment.

She’d expected the people to be furious, and they were. But one line saved Ryoka from a lynch mob: it was for Lady Bethal. Suddenly, the people were all too happy to take Ryoka’s coin, even congratulate her on the run. It was incredible, but the [Lady] was beloved. As one furious [Shepherd] had said whilst his dusty herd of sheep had to be bathed and their wool combed, that changed things.

“If it’s Lady Walchaís, then it’s fine. House Walchaís has always been good to us folk. They paid for medicine with the Redvein Plague two decades back, fought for us during the Sacrifice of Roses—any bastards who’d smirch Lady Bethal’s name I’ll personally put an arrow through. Just let them try to attack her lands!”

And he’d meant it. The Knights of the Petal had gone to war for their [Lady]’s honor, and the people of Lady Bethal’s lands had immediately refused to do business with anyone who’d sent Bethal a rose. It was incredible, actually, for Ryoka to see that much loyalty. But Bethal was beloved for her flights of fancy as much as how she treated her folk.

Speaking of which…Ryoka and Charlay paused as they ran towards a more populated stretch of road. They didn’t need to run on the road, but Dame Truvia was clearing a path for them. Pedestrians and travellers moved over to let the [Knight] race after the Runners unimpeded.

Walchaís lands lay along one of the natural routes going north towards First Landing. If Reizmelt was a local hub, one of the crossroads near Walta was a major one, and the wide road had hundreds of people and wagons moving up it. Ryoka stared at the huge flow of traffic, but Charlay just pointed.

“We’ll cut across there and run south. Just don’t block anyone. It’s easy, see?”

There were five City Runners running up the road that Ryoka could see, one of whom turned towards Walta at the crossroads. Ryoka nodded—and then spotted something else.

A [Knight] in a golden suit of armor painted with silver was slowly riding up the highway. He’d stopped once to address a family in a wagon, and he had a shield and mace strapped to his side. Ryoka blinked and pointed out the armored man to Charlay. The two Runners slowed to stop and observe.

“What’s that?”

“Just a patrolling [Knight]. What, are there none around Reizmelt?”

“I’m from further south. Celum.”

“Oh, right. Well, you see them around here. They help get rid of [Thieves], patrol roads…they’re great if you get into trouble, unless the trouble gets them.”

Charlay shrugged. Ryoka hesitated. So they were like roaming police officers? This world’s version of a patrol car? She opened her mouth to ask another question and heard a voice from behind her.

“Ryoka Griffin.”

Ryoka turned. Dame Truvia was frowning at the [Knight] in gold. She lowered her visor, and her pink-clad horse pawed the ground. Truvia reached for a holstered lance and nodded to Ryoka.

“Ah. I fear this is as far as I take you, Runner Ryoka. I bid you a safe journey, but I cannot accompany you to the edge of Walchaís lands. That is a [Knight] in service to House Averin. I recognize the colors. I must address him.”

“Address…?”

Ryoka stared blankly at Truvia, and then she remembered. One of the black flowers had come from—

Truvia rode past Ryoka, picking up speed. Charlay chortled and trotted back to watch; Truvia rode straight at the [Knight], and the traffic on the road parted to give her a wide space. People leaned out of their wagons or stopped on the road, sensing what was about to happen.

“[Knight] of House Averin! Hold your ground!”

Dame Truvia roared across the highway. The gold-armored [Knight] looked up and raised a hand. He called back towards Truvia.

“What seems to be the matter, Lady Knight?”

His voice was conversational, friendly even. Ryoka winced. Like the Clairei Knights, this one hadn’t gotten the message about the flowers, or he hadn’t understood the import. Truvia’s voice was loud enough for everyone in a hundred paces to hear clearly.

“Your order has insulted and cast false accusations against the name of House Walchaís and Lady Bethal, whom I serve! This insult cannot stand! The Knights of the Petal ride to their lady’s honor, and until our grievance is met, House Averin is our sworn enemy!”

She pointed her lance with one hand at the startled [Knight]’s chest.

“Sir, I challenge you! Put up your shield or retreat!”

With that, she kicked her horse into a trot and then a gallop, picking up steam and surging behind her shield. Ryoka could see the Averin [Knight] do a double-take. He swung his horse around and raised a hand as he fumbled for his own equipment.

“Wait—what did you—wait, wait!”

Charlay danced in front of Ryoka, and the Runner swore.

“Charlay, I can’t see!”

She shoved at the Centaur, but Charlay was, again, over a thousand pounds, and all Ryoka managed to do was push herself back. She tried to step around the Centaur, but there was a lot of Charlay to manuver about. Then Ryoka heard Truvia hit the Averin [Knight] along with a roar from the spectators.

Ryoka heard a crash, a horse’s scream, and finally got around Charlay, who was dancing with excitement. She saw the Averin [Knight] lying on the ground as Dame Truvia strode towards him.

“Dead gods, are you mad? We’re both [Knights]! I have no quarrel with you!”

He screamed up at her. Dame Truvia grabbed her weapon; she didn’t carry a sword or shield but a spear to go with the lance.

“There is no excuse for dishonor! Draw your sword, ser!”

She charged, and the Averin [Knight] swore and grabbed his mace. Ryoka decided that was enough and started running, watching the battle as the two warriors, one dressed in gold and silver, the other pink, began dueling along the highway. Ryoka ran south, past the traffic jam and people calling out to ask what had happened up ahead. The clash echoing behind the two Runners made Ryoka wince. The Centauress just smiled.

“I like the people living around here. It reminds me of home.”

“It’s certainly…fun.”

Ryoka had to smile as they ran ahead. The two Runners passed further down the road, calling out what was going down to the people shouting warily to know if there was danger ahead. The wagons couldn’t move off the road, but any number of people hopped down or walked or rode ahead to see. The fight between the [Knights] was certainly something Ryoka wanted to see, but she had a job to do.

Riverfarm and Laken—Ryoka’s mood grew less exuberant. Yes, she had a debt to pay, but to whom and how, she had no idea. She just wanted to see the trouble Laken had hinted about. After that—

“Ryoka!”

Ahead of her, Charlay suddenly drew up, nearly rearing in alarm. Ryoka halted at once, and her hand went to her bag of holding. Then she saw what Charlay had seen and blinked.

“Are you serious?”

A familiar face was poking out of a carriage rolling past them. The vehicle wasn’t going that fast due to the traffic, but the amused face that met Ryoka’s eyes was familiar. Ryoka had just seen her.

Alevica, the strange City Runner that scared Charlay, was sitting in the carriage. She had hired it along with three other bored passengers. She was riding one of the travel-carriages that went from city to city. It was an expensive option, but quick and comfortable.

“Alevica?”

Ryoka stared. Charlay just froze. The young woman with the blue hair and hat nodded to Ryoka and Charlay.

“You’re heading this way too. Fancy that.”

“I—yeah. Are you taking the carriage?”

Alevica smiled.

“It’s safe, secure, and pretty quick. Why? Want a ride?”

She patted the seat next to her. Ryoka just shook her head. Alevica was a bad Runner. She wasn’t running, first of all. Ryoka supposed the payment for the carriage wasn’t much given how much she stood to earn, but she was putting everyone in that carriage at risk!

If someone wanted the Steel-box delivery she had, they’d attack the carriage. Ryoka opened her mouth to say so and saw Alevica looking at her. Just…looking. As if she knew exactly what Ryoka was going to say and just wanted to know if she’d say it.

Slowly, Ryoka closed her mouth. Alevica nodded to herself, and her smile grew a bit deeper.

“It’s not a bad way to travel. I’ll go my own way if I need to. But it really does save energy. You’re running barefoot? It’s a long journey for me. You too, I suspect. Why not ride with me? It’ll be free.”

She offered carelessly, ignoring the looks the other passengers and the driver gave her. Ryoka hesitated, and she looked at Charlay.

“Charlay won’t fit.”

“I didn’t offer her. If she wants, she can run alongside the carriage. She’s a Centaur. She could keep up.”

Alevica’s eyes didn’t change once as she turned to regard Charlay. The Centauress shuddered.

“I’ll—I’m—”

She looked at Ryoka. The Runner girl didn’t have to think twice.

“Thanks, but we like running, Alevica. Maybe some other time.”

The young woman shrugged.

“As you please. You’ll make better time than we will. Looks like that [Knight] duel is stopping us. See you around, Wind Runner, Charlay.”

She waved at the two, and Ryoka slowly kept on running. Charlay gratefully followed her. The two were silent as they ran further, and then Ryoka turned to Charlay.

“Okay, what is Alevica? A [Mage] with a temper? Some kind of criminal class? What?”

The Centauress shook her head and warily cast a glance back down the road at the stopped carriage. As she ran, she leaned down and whisper-shouted to Ryoka.

“She’s a [Witch]! We don’t have them in Baleros. Not really. We have different classes. But Ryoka—I’m glad you didn’t ride with her, but if she ever tells you to do something—do it. She’s powerful and dangerous.”

Ryoka nodded. Alevica gave her that impression. She was no Persua, who was a mean girl taken to the extreme of pushing someone into a wagon. Then try to murder you, yes, but Persua worked up to it.

Alevica looked like the kind of person you made enemies with and then tried to murder as fast as possible. Before she got you. She gave Ryoka goose bumps. Then Ryoka latched onto what Charlay had said, and her skin and that sense inside her tingled.

“A [Witch]? Are you serious?”

She turned her head. Alevica was out of sight, but that dress, the hat—yes! It wasn’t classic Harry Potter, but it all fit. Ryoka was just so used to [Mages] that she hadn’t noticed. Charlay nodded. She slowed to a trot, and Ryoka saw her breathing hard.

“What makes you so scared of her, Charlay?”

The Centauress hesitated. She glanced back, and Ryoka saw her shudder again. This time, when she spoke, there was no bravado, only fear.

“I just heard rumors. And one time I…I was in the guild, and she cut in line. So I said some things, and later on the road, she passed me. I think she cast a spell because the next thing I know, my tail caught on fire.”

She gestured at her tail with a shaking hand. Ryoka stared at the pale hair. It appeared alright to her, but there was something…she looked at the Centauress. There were tears in her eyes.

“I couldn’t put it out. I had to use four healing potions until the fire stopped, and my coat…”

Ryoka looked closer. Charlay pulled away, but Ryoka had seen the faint imprint around Charlay’s hindquarters and tail. Traces of a burn scar. She looked back sharply at Alevica’s carriage.

“Maybe I’ll go back. I don’t feel like running anymore.”

Charlay slowly pawed at the ground with one hoof, her upper body drooping. She looked unhappy. And Ryoka, watching her, was struck by a thought. Charlay had followed her for the last three days, bickering, insulting, but always waiting for Ryoka. Talking with her, running at her pace. It might be Charlay’s personality, but she hadn’t been unpleasant all the time. And not once had Ryoka ever seen one of Charlay’s friends looking for the Centaur.

Slowly, the young woman looked at Charlay.

“If you want to go back to Walta, no one’s stopping you. But…hey, I could really use someone to run with. Want to check out Riverfarm? That’s where I’m headed. You could do some deliveries on the way. And I wouldn’t mind the company, really.”

Charlay paused. She looked at Ryoka, and her miserable expression vanished. She visibly perked up. Then she hesitated. Ryoka saw the head toss coming and recognized it as what it was. Bravado.

“Well, I suppose if you insist. I don’t like you, Ryoka. You’re rude, slow, and you took my theme. But I suppose I could keep you company.”

She hesitated and peeked at Ryoka out of the corner of one eye. Ryoka folded her arms.

“Is that how you really think?”

“Yes. No. Okay, fine! I would like to come, happy?”

The Centauress stamped one hoof. She glared at Ryoka.

“Don’t take it personally! I know I made fun of you a bit. But I do that all the time with my Centaur friends. In…Baleros. I guess it’s different here.”

She hesitated. And Ryoka realized that Centaurs really were different. Like any other culture, really. She wondered if anyone else had realized that. Slowly, Ryoka smiled and shook her head, pretending not to notice Charlay’s anxious look.

“Hey, I don’t mind. Just don’t do it all the time. You know how thin-skinned we Humans are.”

“Yeah, and touchy. But insulting each other is what friends do. We are friends, aren’t we?”

Charlay’s question took Ryoka off guard. But then Ryoka nodded. And Charlay’s smile provoked one of Ryoka’s as well. Without a word, the Centauress trotted forwards and then into a run.

“Well, that was obvious. Why did you need to spell it out? Come on, Ryoka! Let’s go!”

She beckoned, and Ryoka followed. The young woman stared at Charlay’s back as the Centaur laughed, running with all four legs, and shook her head, mystified, happy—she turned her head up towards the sky.

“It’s so easy, Erin. Why didn’t you tell me that? Why didn’t I listen?”

And then she ran off, south. With a new friend. As they ran towards Riverfarm, Charlay’s voice echoed back towards her.

“…Hey! Do you know if we’re going the right way?”



——



If Ryoka Griffin’s first encounter with a [Witch] left her less than impressed with Alevica, well, like Charlay, there was more depth to the odd class than Ryoka first thought.

It seemed like [Witches] were on the mind, and not just hers. Charlay and Ryoka were stopping for directions—just so Ryoka could stop Charlay from asking—when they heard people talking about [Witches].

“Five with broken arms. Men and women no less! At least they burnt down that wretched place. [Witches].”

“Witches?”

Ryoka and Charlay turned to a knot of distressed men talking in a marketplace of the town they were in—Totiled. It wasn’t large, and Ryoka first thought they were discussing Alevica, given Charlay’s description of her. But instead—

Well, the first thing the cluster of townsfolk did was clam up, but when they were introduced to two City Runners, they relaxed. Charlay was certainly novel to them, and they stared up at her and asked questions of the Centaur, who clearly loved the attention.

“What’s this about [Witches]?”

“Psht. They’re all about, Miss Runner. Going here and there. Run out of villages. And good riddance, I say!”

One of the townsfolk who’d been listening to the other men spat, but the group who’d actually run into another objectionable [Witch] turned out to be from a village, not the town itself.

“It’s not all like that! We had a good [Witch]—in Ecedale, twenty miles yonder. But it’s all gone bad. Terribly so! First one [Witch] dies in the streets, the next, our [Witch] throws down, and then her schoolhouse burns down and she’s gone!”

What was this about? Schoolhouse? Ryoka had to get some clarity here, and the story, when deciphered, worked out like this. Charlay chewed on some flatbread as she listened.

“It all began…oh, I can’t say how long back. There was talk about, well, bad witches. That’s how it all began. You hear stories of ‘em.”

Everyone nodded, from townsfolk to villagers. Ryoka scratched her head.

“But you have one.”

The man from Ecedale protested.

“We had a good one! Very normal, she was! No warts or hexes; she kept a clean place, had a bunch of little ones in training—Miss Agratha, she was. But you hear stories about the bad ones, now and then. There was some business in Terandria…I don’t want to tell stories or run my mouth. I figure they’re bad enough not to spread.”

The villager actually took something from a pouch at his neck and tossed some over his shoulder. The others did likewise. The townsfolk looked amused at this quaint superstition, but the Ecedale folk went on.

“Miss Agratha was telling everyone it was pure nonsense. She’s well liked for the little magics she does. Not by all! But I never had anything but politeness from her, and she always paid for anything she bought.”

“Not like some folks.”

The dour mutter gave Ryoka an odd impression of ‘Witch Agratha’.

“So where’d the dead [Witch] come from?”

The men looked at each other nervously.

“Well, that’s just it. It happened one night: Miss Agratha was out travelling. Witches do that sort of thing, you know? A stranger comes pounding on our doors, shouting for help. Says she’s been chased! Hunted! Now, most folk were ready to take her in, but then they realized she was a [Witch]. Pointed hat? So they turned her away. They didn’t want trouble. Miss Agratha has a schoolhouse, and they pointed her there. The poor woman must’ve made it, but Agratha and her apprentices were all gone. We didn’t know it, but when someone went to check…she’d expired in the schoolhouse. Leg infected, worn to death. Poor woman.”

The street went silent as Ryoka swallowed hard, and Charlay lost her appetite. Poor woman indeed.

“Sounds like bad business. Who was after her?”

Even the townsfolk looked slightly shaken. The villagers’ spokesman spread his hands.

“No one knows. Perhaps she was a…bad witch. There was a vote that very evening on whether or not we should kick Miss Agratha out. You know, just in case? Obviously, most people were set against—until Agratha returned. When she found out one of her kin had died there, well, she caused havoc.”

Another man cut in, looking wide-eyed with respect as much as regret.

“She laid into the folk who wouldn’t open their doors! All of us! She has a tongue like—well, some of them who didn’t like her got a bit pushy and stroppy. The next thing you know, there’s a full brawl in the middle of town and she’s laying about with a club!”

“What? A club? I thought it’d be with witchcraft!”

Charlay burst out laughing, but the villagers gave her dark looks.

“Yeah, well, who needs magic when you can hit someone that hard? After all was said and done, it was a lot harder to vote for her, but it didn’t matter either way; someone burned her schoolhouse down in the night. The next thing you know, Agratha’s gone, and all her apprentices run off too. Even some of the children she was tutoring!”

“She’s kidnapped children?”

That brought the townsfolk against the [Witch], but from what Ryoka had heard, it was all a mess. The Wind Runner shook her head as the villagers clarified.

“It might be kidnapping—”

“She was tutoring the girls, two of whom had no proper parenting—”

“One family’s put a bounty on her—”

“Agratha’s the right sort. She set my leg when it was broken better than a [Healer]. If some idiot hadn’t torched her schoolhouse—”

The townsfolk of Totiled were a lot less sympathetic. One spat.

“Well, I’ve heard similar rumors about witches of late. I say, run them out everywhere. I’m glad this one’s gone! As for one running a schoolhouse, hah! Who needs that sort of thing?”

Ryoka stared at him for a while until she remembered [Teacher] wasn’t even a class on Izril, really. People did apprenticeships instead. She had never been the biggest proponent of education herself, growing up. But still…Charlay went back to eating and added a comment.

“Witches. Huh? Are they just a pain or are they useful?”

That provoked a long silence from all. One of the townsfolk answered airily.

“Oh, they’re useful sometimes, but you can’t trust a lot of them. Good for villages. Not a town or city. And there’s always a bad witch.”

“Ever met one?”

Ryoka got a glower from one of the townsfolk and shrugs from the villagers of Ecedale. No…not personally. But there was always one.

And it seemed like everyone had heard something about a ‘bad witch’ of late. Maybe it was something like the witch hunts of Salem, that paranoia that swept over people for a while. Or the inquisition. Or…Ryoka saw a few of the villagers touching the charm that Witch Agratha had apparently made for them. She heard a whisper.

“…Helpful Servants in Noelictus. I heard…”

But they fell silent when others looked at them and did not want to say it out loud. And Ryoka and Charlay had to be going. They were running down the road when Charlay pointed something out.

“I still think you don’t know where you’re going, Ryoka.”

The Wind Runner sighed.





6.36 E


(Hey, I’ve got news! Volume 2 of The Wandering Inn might come out as an e-book soon! The Audiobook is scheduled for September 10th! Madness! Find out more details )



Day 55 – Durene



Help was on the way. That was the thought that Durene held in her head when she woke in her cottage. It propelled her out of bed and had her rummaging through the pack of food that Prost had provided her with last night. It made eggs, fresh from Riverfarm’s chickens, fried new potatoes grown from Riverfarm’s fields, and, uh, got water from the creek that fed Riverfarm’s river.

Okay, it was just a good mood. But Durene welcomed it. She had spoken to Laken. Not face-to-face, and he was yet far away, doing things with Goblin prisoners, and she was not happy about that. But she’d missed him. It felt like, now, she knew that he remembered her. Was thinking of her.

It mattered a lot. Durene dumped a bucket of water in what was supposed to be her pig’s trough. It was her bucket, so it filled the trough halfway and woke the new occupant of her cottage’s fenced-in perimeter. Bismarck yawned, exposing rows of yellowed teeth, and padded over to the trough for a drink. Durene eyed him, and the Mossbear sniffed the air. He tried to proceed towards the cottage for breakfast—Durene caught him.

“No. That’s my breakfast, Bismarck. You can have these potatoes.”

She dumped a small pile on the ground, and the bear sniffed them. Then he sniffed the air and decided fried potatoes and eggs sounded a lot better. He padded towards the cottage—this time, Durene wrapped her arms around his midsection.

“I said no.”

The Mossbear, affronted and surprised, looked back at Durene. He made a gaoing sound and pulled. Durene, her feet slipping in the wet soil, pulled back. And both she and Bismarck had an unpleasant surprise.

He was strong! Durene had met few things in the world that could really bother her. Wagons, trees, even Hobgoblins had felt weaker than her. But Bismarck was a Mossbear, bigger than regular bears. And he—Durene slipped across the ground, then pulled back harder.

The bear was surprised too. He wasn’t used to anything being able to hold him in place or get in his way, come to that. He strained to go forwards, and Durene hauled him back.

“Stay. Bad Bismarck! Stay—”

That was when it began to rain. Again. Both the Mossbear and half-Troll girl looked up as the clouds opened up. A downpour instantly soaked both and the potatoes. Bismarck eyed Durene and the cottage and then the pile of wet potatoes on the ground. Durene bared her teeth. The Mossbear considered his chances of getting into the hut, then dejectedly padded over to his potatoes and began wolfing them down. Durene sighed.

It was the beginning of another day.



—–



Another day. But a better one. The last two days hadn’t been the worst, all things considered, and Durene was feeling optimistic. By the time Wiskeria entered the cottage, dripping with water, Frostwing was eating her raw meat, and Durene had food.

“Morning, Wiskeria.”

“Hello, Durene. It’s another rainy day.”

The [Witch] sighed as she shook water from her clothes and hat onto the floor. Durene was about to ask if she needed a towel when she noticed Wiskeria wasn’t actually wet. The water slid from her garments, leaving a dry, if hungry, [Witch] behind.

“Wow. Is that magic? Here. Want some eggs and potatoes?”

Wiskeria sat down at the table, smiling slightly. She accepted the food and ate ravenously; Durene joined her a moment later with a much larger plate of her own food. Frostwing pecked at her bowl of meat and balefully eyed the egg-eaters.

“It’s magic. Not magic robes; just a little charm against water. Good thing I put it on the tent, or I’d have been soaked this morning. I think it’s wearing off, though; I got a few drips.”

Wiskeria pointed out Durene’s window. The half-Troll [Farmer] glanced outside.

“Huh. Charms? Is that like regular spells? I don’t know much about magic.”

“It’s small magic. Spells are quick to cast and last…hours at best, usually. Charms require a bit more work. For a charm against water, I sprinkle some dust over the tent and make it deflect water. It lasts for a few days, so if I forget to apply it, I get soaked. Same for the hat and clothes.”

“That’s so handy.”

Not powerful, though. Just handy. Durene could be as happily dry as Wiskeria with a towel and a minute of work. The [Witch] nodded, eating fast.

“Small magics. I have a lot of them. It’s not as good as casting [Barrier of Air] or something like a [Mage], but it’s pretty good. That’s how my class does magic, anyways. We get other things in return.”

“You mean like bringing dead crow heads back to life?”

Durene stared across the table. Wiskeria paused with some potato stuffed into her mouth. She chewed, swallowed, and slowly looked outside.

“Uh…yes. If we want to. [Witches] learn a lot of disciplines. General magic, alchemy, hexes, charms, beast taming, even fighting Skills—”

“Necromancy.”

“I don’t know any spells to raise the dead.”

“Oh. Okay.”

“I really don’t. Look, [Witches] aren’t all the same, Durene. We’re—it’s a wide class.”

Flustered, Wiskeria adjusted the hat on her head. She never took it off, even indoors. She wiped her spectacles on her robes, and Durene let the matter drop.

“So what’re you going to do today? Prost and Rie say they’re going to make an announcement this morning. In the village. Want to come?”

The [Witch] hesitated, and her good mood palpably faded a bit. Durene just stared at her. Wiskeria mumbled as she finished her plate.

“Maybe. I could…come by.”

“Laken asked you to.”

Another pause.

“Yes, he did. I’ll think about it.”

And there was another thing. Two days ago, Wiskeria’s answer would have been a flat rejection, Durene was sure. But she’d been in the room with Durene and heard Laken’s [Message]. He’d asked her to help, and the [Witch] looked bothered as she glanced out Durene’s window again. Because, as different as she was from Durene, with her quick wits, magic, and now deep guilt, she and Durene shared the same thing that bound them together in unlikely ways.

Loyalty. Durene had been glad to see it—surprised that she’d seen it in Rie’s face—and she was relieved herself. Something, someone was coming that would make things better. But just as importantly, Durene had realized what she needed to do while Laken was away: keep Riverfarm safe. With that in mind, she felt energized today. Durene got up and put both plates away. She looked at Wiskeria.

“If you’re coming, do it soon. I’m going into the village. With Frostwing. If she behaves herself.”

She reached for the bird, and Frostwing squawked, but slowly hopped onto Durene’s arm. The bird pecked at a loose thread on Durene’s clothing, but didn’t scream or protest this time as Durene picked up an oiled cloak and held it over the bird. She walked over to the door.

“See you later?”

“Yeah.”

Wiskeria smiled as Durene left the cottage. She watched as the door closed, and the sudden shower of rain began to let up a tiny bit. The [Witch] stared around the cottage, sighed, then stood up as well.



—–



This morning, the people of Riverfarm broke from their routine for a gathering in the one building large enough to hold them. The village’s center, the meeting hall that doubled as the throne room of sorts. The carved throne that sat on a small dais at the other end of the room was unoccupied. And it had been for nearly two months.

Even so, the people who came to listen to Prost speak stared at it with the same expectant stare they had on day one. They were Riverfarm’s original folk, Windrest’s, the people of the villages who’d first come here. Not all of them; there were six hundred ‘original’ people. Loyal to their [Emperor].

Many had duties that called them away even before this early hour, but it still felt good to Durene to see the rest here. She stood next to the throne, listening to Prost speak. The [Steward] was a simple public speaker, but an efficient one; he wasted no one’s time.

“His Majesty is but two weeks away. Maybe a bit more, maybe less—he’s still got all the [Engineer] teams with him. We just have to wait for him. He is being escorted by two [Lords] after all.”

The people in the meeting hall nodded reluctantly. They’d been hopeful, but not exactly unpleasantly surprised by the [Message] from Laken. Durene gathered that this update on his progress wasn’t new by now. Prost let the murmurs die down before turning to Durene.

“One last thing. Our Durene’s awake and fully recovered from her injury. You may have seen her on her feet these last few days—she can be hard to miss. She’ll be helping around Riverfarm as she might—and it’ll be a help, you can be sure! Three days ago, she and Beniar caught the [Thief] who’d been stealing for the last few weeks!”

That garnered a lot more interest. Everyone turned to Durene, and she blushed as a small cheer rose from the crowd. But then a man shouted from the crowd. It was Mister Ram, the [Rancher].

“We finally caught that bastard! When’re we giving him a beating, Prost? Or is it just exile? He deserves more than that if you ask me!”

There was a swell of agreement from the crowd. Prost grimaced as he raised a hand. Rie wasn’t here; Durene guessed she was tending to the rest of the village.

“There’s no beating being done, Mister Ram. Or exile—yet. We know who the [Thief] is, and he’s high-level, but figuring out the exact punishment will take a bit. He’s being confined in his house under watch, so I don’t want anyone doing anything until Lady Rie and I pass formal judgment. What’s important is that the thefts will stop; at least, from him.”

That didn’t sit well with the crowd. There was a lot of frowning, and then a woman called out.

“Why not? That man stole from our [Traders]—stole money we made for the village!”

“There’s complications, Miss Prise. The man’s from Lancrel—”

“So? They came to Riverfarm, they have to obey the laws, same as everyone else! What makes this [Thief] so different?”

Durene, watching, saw most of the villagers nodding. She nodded as well; there was only one recourse for a [Thief]. Either you taught them a lesson so they stopped for good or they had to leave the village. In a small community, you couldn’t have people like that. Prost just grimaced.

“It’s not that simple. The [Thief] that Durene helped catch? It’s Master Elmmet.”

There was a moment of stunned silence and then a roar of outrage from the crowd. Durene blinked as fury swept over the familiar faces. Ram shouted out, his face red.

“That snooty [Councilman]? And the Lancrel lot said the [Thief] wouldn’t ever be one of theirs! Just goes to show! Let’s tar and feather the bastard and run him out today! I’ll get the tar myself! Who’s with me?”

Half the men and women in the room shouted, and some seemed ready to do so right this instant. On the dais, Prost shouted for silence, then gave up. He put two fingers in his mouth and issued a piercing whistle. Everyone, Durene included, clapped their hands to their ears. Frostwing, who’d been content to perch on Durene’s shoulder, shrieked happily in accord.

“No one’s punishing Elmmet for anything, so get that out of your heads. Especially you, Ram. He’s under guard.”

“Put him in the pillory and let us throw some rocks! Under guard in his home? You’re not treating him special on account of him being from the city, are you, Prost?”

Ram’s glare bounced off Prost. The [Steward] frowned, and Ram, realizing he might have gone too far, hesitated. Prost’s voice shut down every murmur as he replied with iron in his tone.

“Not at all. But Lancrel’s folk are insisting their [Councilman] did nothing wrong. Never mind that he was caught by Beniar. They insist it was a setup—”

Another roar of outrage. Prost shouted over them.

“I know, I know! Shut up, all of you! We’ve got work to do—stop acting like wet-bottomed babes before I spank the lot of you!”

The affronted crowd shut up. Prost, breathing heavily, glared at them.

“That’s what Lancrel’s lot says. But they’re not in charge, and justice will be done, I promise you. What we’re doing is—we’re setting up a trial. With a truth stone. Lady Rie sent for one from her estates, and it’ll be here by the end of today. Tomorrow, we’ll be having a public trial for Master Elmmet to show everyone he is the [Thief]. His sentence will be handled then.”

The angry crowd quieted a bit. A woman shouted out as she lifted a girl up to see Prost from the back.

“What if Lancrel’s folk don’t want him punished? There’s more’ve them than us, Prost. Them and the other villagers who came here. They’ve been saying they deserve the best houses and more consideration—as if we weren’t here first!”

Durene saw more aggrieved nods. Prost sighed.

“They can say what they want. But justice will be done tomorrow. I’ll be handling the trial myself. You’re all free to watch. With that said—we have jobs to do! There might be rain, but I want more fields being plowed and sown! And we’re putting up more houses for our crafts folk! That means more of you all will be doing your primary class’ job soon enough! Think of that and don’t let me catch any of you starting a fight with Lancrel’s folk! They’ll be here right after you, and they’ll hear exactly what you said.”

“Us? Start fights?”

Ram looked innocently around. Prost glared.

“That’s all for now. Anyone who’s got a complaint? Find me when I’m checking in on you! Get to work!”

Grumbling, but good-naturedly, the villagers dispersed. Durene watched the back of the crowd begin to troop out of the room with no more than a few complaints. They were hardy folk, the [Farmers] and [Woodcutters] and so on. More than a few stopped to greet Durene. The first was a bald man with huge arms and an apron.

“Durene! Dead gods, girl, it’s good to see you.”

He spread his arms and gave Durene a hug. She grinned and hugged him back.

“Mister Helm!”

The [Blacksmith] beamed as he stepped back. He was one of the leaders of Windrest, a respected man and the highest-level [Blacksmith] in Riverfarm at the moment. He shook his head as a small crowd gathered around Durene.

“I didn’t think anything could keep you down more than a day, girl. When I heard your wound got infected—it’s a terrible thing. But you’re back, and in a day, you caught that damn [Thief]! And that slimy Elmmet no less! He’d have never been able to get away with it for so long if His Majesty were here.”

Durene nodded soberly. Laken would have sensed Elmmet stealing right off. Helm sighed, but then he adjusted his belt.

“Not long now until he gets back, though. I’m looking forwards to it—he can restore order. Not that Prost and Lady Rie don’t do a good enough job, but Emperor Laken—he’s the one who can get things moving. There’s always more houses that need putting up, and I’d like half a dozen more hands helping me churn out what Riverfarm needs—get us ore instead of having us having to smelt or buy the damn stuff ourselves—”

Someone elbowed Helm in the side and forced him back. Another woman stepped up, scowling at the [Blacksmith].

“Don’t monopolize Durene with your complaints, Helm! How are you, Miss Durene? Ignore Helm. He hasn’t changed from Windrest. When Emperor Laken comes back, kicking Helm into shape’ll be his hardest task, I have no doubt.”

“How dare you, Mallie! You think I haven’t been working from dawn till dusk?”

Helm spluttered at the [Washerwoman] as she shook Durene’s hand with two of her own, smiling. More of the villagers crowded around, and Durene, surprised and touched by the affection, shook hands and exchanged hugs, trying not to blush.

She failed. Durene liked Windrest’s folk. They didn’t have any baggage with her past, and they’d known her and Laken for months before the battle at Lancrel. She didn’t know them all, of course, and some of the villagers in this meeting were here just to meet Durene.

“I…saw you, didn’t I? When the army of his—er, Emperor Godart—sent them to fight the Goblins harassing our village. You were with them. I’m Miss Baker. A pleasure. Miss Durene?”

A small woman peered up at Durene, cautious, but managing a smile. Durene nodded.

“I’m a [Paladin], Miss Baker. I, uh, I fought with the army. I might be doing that again, but today I’ll be helping out.”

“Oh! A [Paladin]? I’ve never heard of that class. What is it about, please?”

The woman’s eyes widened respectfully. Durene felt a surge of pride, and a smile flashed around those in the know. Durene used the easiest explanation she knew.

“A [Paladin] is a special kind of [Knight] that serves [Emperors], Miss Baker. A bit more than that, but you could think of them as…a [Knight] among [Knights].”

“Amazing. And you’re…I mean, will we have [Knights] when His Majesty returns? There’s that dashing [Cataphract], and he’s as good as any [Knight]. Adventurer Beniar.”

Miss Baker’s eyes were shining at the prospect. Durene felt a flutter in her chest at the thought. Hadn’t Laken thought about that? No, wait—he’d complained that he’d given most of his titles, including knighthoods, to the Frost Faeries.

“I imagine Laken could knight a few people, Miss Baker. If they were deserving.”

“Amazing.”

The woman shook her head. The others nodded proudly or with the same amazement. [Steward], [Paladin]—no, they even had a [Lady] among them! It was more than any of them would dream of in their normal lives.

Durene was smiling and introducing herself to the last of the people as the crowd slowly filed out of the meeting hall when there was a pause, then a susurration through those still in the building. The people at the doors cleared a space. Walking through them came a young woman with a familiar blue hat.

Wiskeria. Durene looked up, and a silence fell over the room. The [Witch]’s face was pale, but she walked into the center, chin raised. Prost, talking to Helm and a few of the villagers with authority, turned, and his eyes widened. Wiskeria gulped and spoke.

“Hello, everyone.”

“Wiskeria.”

Durene breathed her name, and she wasn’t the only one. Every eye focused on the [Witch], and Durene, gazing across the crowd, saw a mix of emotions. Surprise, sadness, a flash of anger on a few faces—but, generally, just uncertainty. The [Witch] tugged on her hat, and then, slowly, took it off. She stared around the room as her dark hair fell slightly.

“I’m sorry for—I’m sorry I haven’t been more active of late. I’d like to change that, help where I may. I’m not reforming the army. Beniar will be handling things with his Darksky Riders until Emperor Laken returns. But I do want to help.”

Silence greeted her statement. Durene held her breath, inspecting the audience. To her, Wiskeria had nothing to apologize for. Nothing—but then Durene remembered the cemetery. And she couldn’t bring herself to be the first one to speak.

Nor could Prost, apparently. He hesitated, opening his mouth uncertainly. But before he could speak, someone else pushed her way through the crowd.

A girl. She was young, a village child from her trousers and general appearance. She marched right up to Wiskeria and stared up at her as the [Witch] put on her hat. Wiskeria stared back uncertainly. The girl looked Wiskeria up and down and then asked in a loud, carrying voice, as only a child could do.

“What’re you, Miss?”

Wiskeria blinked. The question wasn’t exactly rude, but it was a bit out of place.

“I’m a [Witch]. A [Witch] and a [General]. But mostly a [Witch]. My name is Wiskeria. What’s yours?”

The girl considered this.

“Agathy. Are you a bad [Witch], Miss? Mother says you’re not. But my brother, Randil, he followed you to kill the Goblins. And he never came back.”

There it was. Durene paused, and in the crowd around her, the folk at the doors, the good mood was swept away and replaced by silence. Outside, the rain blew in, drenching those at the doors. But they held still, looking back at Wiskeria. The [Witch] hesitated. She tugged her pointed hat lower over her brow and knelt, bending down towards Agathy.

“I’d…like to think I’m not a bad [Witch], Agathy. But I don’t think I’m a very good one. I let your brother down.”

“Ma says it weren’t your fault. Nor His Majesty’s. She said—but who’s to blame? Them Goblins?”

Agathy stared at Wiskeria. Her voice was loud, strident even. Bordering on accusatory. Wiskeria hesitated.

“I was the [General] in charge of the army. We were fighting Goblins, but I should have led better. I’m sorry.”

The little girl nodded. Durene was…surprised to see her not crying. But it had been fifty-five days since then. It felt like yesterday to Durene. She closed her eyes. Then Agathy’s voice became uncertain.

“Was he brave?”

A tremble entered her bold tone. A quaver. And the room waited on Wiskeria’s response. The [Witch] gazed up. Perhaps some of those in the room had fought on that battlefield. Durene recognized some faces. She had been there. But she didn’t remember Agathy’s brother’s face. She didn’t even recognize his name. Wiskeria paused, and then she closed her eyes. Then she smiled down at Agathy.

“Oh yes. The bravest. I promise you that.”

“He was a hero.”

The statement was no question, but it begged for an answer. Wiskeria nodded. Agathy went on, her large eyes filled with no tears. But the words poured out in a rush.

“He had a spear. A-and he practiced every day. He was a Level 14 [Warrior]. He killed a lot of Goblins, right?”

“Yes. And he helped the rest of us get away.”

“That’s what I thought.”

Agathy nodded. She stared up at Wiskeria. Then she looked lost.

“How did he—how did—”

She broke off and rubbed at one eye. At last, a woman came through the crowd. She had been wiping at her eyes. She pulled Agathy back. The girl protested, but quietly. The woman bowed to Wiskeria hesitantly. The [Witch] looked down, then forced herself to meet the woman’s eyes.

“I’m Agelica. Agathy’s mother. And Randil’s. Please forgive Agathy.”

“No, it’s perfectly…I’m sorry Miss Agelica.”

The woman shook her head, her eyes bright.

“We know you did your best, General. And you had the wrong orders. Emperor Laken didn’t order that charge. It was someone else. A traitor, isn’t that right?”

“Yes.”

The word came from Prost. He stood on the dais, watching Wiskeria. He met the eyes of every person as he slowly turned around the room.

“Emperor Laken didn’t order the attack. Someone else did. Knocked out Nesor. Wiskeria did the best with the information she had. But we’ll find that traitor. Wiskeria, it’s good to see you.”

She nodded to him. But when she turned to Miss Agelica, the [Witch] could only bow to her and her daughter.

“I’m sorry. Your son was a hero. If he hadn’t fought, more of us wouldn’t have escaped.”

Agelica nodded. With dignity, holding Agathy’s hand, she turned to go. Durene let out the sigh she’d been holding. Too quickly. Frostwing fluttered in alarm as someone stormed past her. Another woman, wearing a dress, pointed a finger at Wiskeria.

“Sorry? Sorry doesn’t bring back the dead!”

“Miss Rehanna.”

Prost called out sharply. Durene recognized her, although it took a second. She had been one of the villagers who’d refused to accept Laken’s rule when she’d come to Riverfarm. Durene had disliked the woman’s ingratitude then. And she hadn’t changed. The woman stormed up to Wiskeria as the [Witch] turned.

“You have some nerve showing your face here after what you did. You were the [General]. You should have won! Or—or retreated sooner! Instead, there were thousands dead! From Riverfarm and every village, city, and town that your [Emperor] levied troops from! How dare you come in here and—”

She flinched as Durene put a hand on her shoulder. The half-Troll girl glared down at her. Durene’s voice boomed around the hall.

“Wiskeria saved as many lives as she could, Miss. It wasn’t her fault someone lied to her. She fought the Goblins! You weren’t there—”

“Durene.”

Wiskeria looked at Durene warningly. Rehanna spun, her eyes flaring with hatred. Hatred and disgust.

“So what if I wasn’t? I can say what we’re all thinking. If it weren’t for her, our people might not have died at Lancrel! And for what? A bunch of city-folk who come here and steal our food while complaining all the while? If we’d had a proper leader in charge instead of this—”

The woman cut off as Durene clenched a fist. Durene made no other move, but it was a big fist. Rehanna backed up. Durene glared at her.

“Don’t you dare insult her. You weren’t fighting. You weren’t there! How can you insult Wiskeria?”

“Durene. Enough.”

Someone pulled at Durene’s shoulder. Prost. He couldn’t move her, but he interposed himself between her and Rehanna. He glanced up at Durene and shook his head.

“Wiskeria isn’t to blame, that’s right enough, Durene. But Miss Rehanna’s entitled to her grief. Her husband was among those that fought at Lancrel.”

“Oh.”

Suddenly, Durene’s righteous anger burnt out in her chest. She stared at Rehanna. The woman’s face was red as she glared at Durene. She pointed a shaking finger at Wiskeria.

“My husband followed that bitch into battle. For your [Emperor]. I warned him. I told him what would happen, but he didn’t listen. And he died.”

Without another word, she turned and stormed out of the room. No one spoke for a long while after that. At last, Wiskeria bowed her head.

“I’m sorry. I can’t make up for what happened. I did what I could. I know that’s not enough, but let me help, if you can accept it.”

Prost nodded tiredly. He looked about and clapped his hands.

“Everyone, back to work. We’ve wasted enough time as it is. Tell everyone who’s working in the village on the second shift to come by when the sun’s overhead.”

He marched towards the door, ordering the first wave of people to the fields and the early-morning work. But, tellingly, he didn’t stop a small crowd who lingered around Wiskeria. A man stepped towards the [Witch], taking off his wide farmer’s hat.

“I don’t know if you’ll remember her, Miss Wiskeria. But if you’ve a moment—do you remember my girl? Iglief? She was an [Archer]. Caught an arrow or so I heard. I…I’d like to know if that’s what happened.”

“Of course.”

Wiskeria turned and bowed to him. She looked up once at Durene. And the half-Troll girl silently stepped away. Wiskeria turned to the [Farmer], and the moment of hesitation was so quick that only Durene noticed it.

“Iglief? I remember her. She had—blonde hair, right?”

She looked at the man. He ran a hand through his dark blonde hair and nodded, relieved.

“That’s her. As fair as wheat. And a clear shot with a bow. She could kill a rat at a hundred paces with it.”

Wiskeria closed her eyes.

“Of course. She would’ve been with our archers. The Goblins overran the right. Before Lord Pellmia came, they had to fight and hold them back as we were retreating. Your daughter—”

She looked at the [Farmer]. Durene, walking towards the door with Frostwing, saw the man bow his head. Wiskeria reached out, and he took Wiskeria’s hand. Shook it. When he moved away, it was slowly, but he put on his hat and headed past Durene towards the doors, and there was a firmness in his step. The next person, an old woman, stepped up and urgently grabbed at the hem of Wiskeria’s robe. The [Witch] turned to her.

There she stood, surrounded by people who’d lost someone. All asking, wanting to know how the dead had fallen. And the [Witch] gave one answer: heroically.

It was a lie, and it was the truth. It was the only answer any decent person could give. And Wiskeria, as she adjusted her spectacles, tugged on her hat, bowed, and lied and told the truth, looked both relieved and in more pain than Durene could ever remember seeing someone. But she had stopped running. So Durene left her to it.



—–



The rest of the day, Durene worked. Not in bits or pieces, lending a hand here or catching a [Thief], but actually got down and worked. It wasn’t hard. There was no end of tasks to do, and Durene might be a [Paladin], but she was a [Farmer] too. Prost didn’t put her in any working group, so Durene did what she knew she could do best: lift things.

She was in the farms first. Or rather, the group clearing new land for fields. The [Woodcutters] had cleared a huge amount of land, but in their hurry to acquire lumber for the new houses going up, they’d neglected to remove the stumps and roots.

That meant the grumbling [Farmers] not assigned to sowing or tilling had to handle it. Durene had the chance to chat with some of them. They were all cut from the same cloth; [Farmers] who worked in the small villages weren’t high-level by and large, but they all dreamed of getting that rare Skill or having a few big harvests that helped them level up.

Many wouldn’t fulfill that dream, but they had more classes than just [Farmer]. You’d be a [Farmer] who specialized in a bit of [Blacksmithing] on the side for coin and to repair your tools, or one with a [Rancher] class, or perhaps a [Farmer] and a [Hunter].

They were hardy, and their grumbling was largely good-natured as they worked in the rain, uprooting stones and roots and hauling them off to wagons. The wood could be dried and used as firewood or bits for the [Carvers], and the stones were good for laying foundations or a cobblestone street, maybe. Durene knew it was a good sign that they were working with a will even in the rain.

“It ain’t nothing hard. In fact, I’d say I’m happier here than at my old farm, for all I miss it dearly. It’s a small place up north—but I’ll admit, it does my heart good seeing all those shoots coming up. I wish I had that Skill, but I’ll be content helping out until I level up.”

One old [Farmer], Rickmeld, chatted as Durene carefully dug around a large stump in the ground. He pulled some dirt back with a hoe, and Durene nodded.

“You like it here, Mister Rickmeld?”

“Compared to being ate by a Goblin for lunch? Yes I do! But there’s more’n that. I just need to work, and I don’t have to worry about food. I wasn’t a married man, but now instead of having to cook, I get someone with [Advanced Cooking] making my meals. And my bed! Feels like the softest cotton when I lie down. That’s spoiling me; I don’t know that I’d return, even if my farm magically rebuilt itself. If it weren’t for all these upstuck city folk, I’d be happy as my pigs. I can’t wait to meet this [Emperor] everyone’s telling me about.”

The [Farmer] sighed as he and Durene finally got under the stump. Durene nodded.

“Lancrel folk, huh? What’re they like?”

Rickmeld eyed Durene and sucked his teeth thoughtfully. He might have been wondering if she were a spy for Prost—Durene was not—but he answered anyways with a [Farmer]’s bluntness.

“Upstuck. Like I said. Can’t handle rain, complain about sleeping in the big storage rooms and barns—as if we didn’t all do that! Worst is the rich folks or the ones who were rich. They keep demanding to get houses first and saying that there should be privileges. What’re they offering? Some of ‘em are decent, but the worst are the [Mayors].”

“[Mayors]?”

He nodded.

“[Mayors], [Aides], [Councilwomen]—you know the sort. We didn’t have a [Mayor] in our village, just a [Headwoman], and she was alright. But a lot of the places that fled the Goblins had people whose class was in leadership. People of importance.”

He spat. Durene, about to bend over, eyed the spit on the stump and sighed. Rickmeld looked apologetic.

“Rain’ll get that. Anyways, they’ve banded together. Formed a ‘governing body’, only, we’ve got that in Prost and Lady Rie. Prost is all we need, if you ask me. He’s a right sort. Good [Farmer], knows his stuff. And Lady Rie! Why’d you need anyone to tell a [Lady] how to manage things?”

Durene thought about Lady Rie and grunted.

“This other group wants to, though?”

“They have suggestions. And they have a lot of folk who respect them or who’re displeased. I say let them leave, but I suppose it ain’t possible. Lancrel’s lot sticks together and listens to this body. And there’s a lot of them…”

Durene nodded. She saw the issue. There were two thousand people in Riverfarm and more stragglers incoming by the day. If there were more people like Rickmeld and Riverfarm’s own, they could tell the other groups where to shove it. But the group from Lancrel outnumbered the villagers two-to-one, never mind that the rural folk had started all this.

“Well, Laken will sort it out when he arrives. Until then, Rie can handle it. And Prost. And Beniar.”

“What about you? I hear you’re His Majesty’s, er, consort. What’s a [Paladin] do all day?”

Durene shrugged, embarrassed.

“Help out. But I’m nothing special, Mister Rickmeld.”

So saying, she crouched, put her hand under the base of the stump, and heaved. The [Farmer] shielded his face as the roots of the tree ripped up out of the dirt in a shower. He gaped as Durene lifted the stump and roots up with one hand and wiped some dirt from her face with a grimace.

“I…see. Nothing special?”

His voice was faint. Durene shrugged.

“I’m a [Farmer]. The [Paladin] bit I’m working on, but I don’t quite know what to do. Hey, should I dump this on the wagon?”

She waved the stump at the other farmers as Frostwing flapped her wings and issued a complaint over the dirt covering her brilliant plumage. That was the morning. After a wet opening, the rain poured so hard the [Farmers] decided to take a break. Durene trooped into the village with them for a hot, warming meal inside one of the buildings the [Cooks] used to make and serve food. The [Farmers] went back out when the storm began to die down to a drizzle, and Durene decided she’d pulled up most of the big stumps. So she went to find the [Builders].

One team was being led by Beycalt, the [Forewoman] whom Durene had met the other day. She was only too glad to have Durene help unload the heavy, wet wagons. It gave Beycalt a chance to address some of the grumbling [Builders] in her crew.

“Working in the rain? Building in it? We should all be indoors!”

One man was simply unable to handle the light rain. He was protesting to Beycalt, and the woman was having none of it. She pointed as Durene trooped past her with some fresh-cut boards.

“It’s just rain. It doesn’t affect houses. And we can put a temporary shelter up when we start adding floorboards. I don’t know how you did it in Lancrel, but you can raise a building in storm or sun, Mister Felp. Stop complaining and help unload those wagons. We can throw up this house in the hour with Durene’s help if you’d all stop whining and do half of her work.”

She pointed, and Durene paused on her way back to the wagon. The man, Mister Felp, stared up at her. He hesitated, and his face paled.

“Uh—uh, the Troll? She’s going to help with everything?”

Beycalt frowned. Durene just smiled and held out a hand.

“Half-Troll, sir. [Paladin]. I’m here to help defend Riverfarm in case it’s attacked.”

Felp stared at her, and Durene had the sinking feeling he was surprised she could speak. His handshake was timid and limp and quick—Durene already didn’t like him or most of the other Lancrel people who were working in Beycalt’s group. They were all unused to the rain and quicker to complain than the rural folk.

Still, some of them worked with a will, and as Durene helped them set up the frame, she got a chance to talk. A woman nodded at her, spitting nails into her gloved hand one by one and driving each one into the wood with a practiced swing. It was a neat Skill.

“Don’t mind Felp, Miss, uh, Durene. He’s just not used to the wet. I’d be concerned if we were leaving this wood out, but we can raise a house in hours. Amazingly quick. Not to say it isn’t hard…”

“Something wrong with Riverfarm, Miss [Builder]?”

Durene looked at the woman as she lifted the frame up, one-handed. The woman hesitated.

“It’s just hard moving from a city to here. We’re grateful, of course. Those damn Goblins that attacked the city, and there were few places to turn—”

“If they could’ve gotten our city back, I’d have been happier.”

One of the men working on Durene’s left groused, and then looked away when she stared at him. The female [Builder] snorted and nearly ate one of her nails.

“Return to that place? It’s more ruin than not. I’m just saying that—look, it’s not simple. I, er, listened to your [Steward] at lunch. That man Prost. He was saying…”

She trailed off. The other Lancrel [Builders] looked up and around warily. After a moment, the female [Builder] moved over and whispered to Durene while Beycalt was busy helping unload roof tiles.

“Elmmet. He’s a good [Councilman]. You didn’t really catch him stealing…people are saying there might have been a mix-up. The [Thief] could change faces. What if he set up Master Elmmet?”

“I saw him change his face. It wasn’t anyone else. Frostwing found him too—he was looking like a woman right until she started attacking him. It’s him. Beniar caught him, and no one got a chance to slip away.”

Durene frowned as she informed the group. The Lancrel folk looked at each other, frowning hard. One of the men shook his head and tried to raise his voice, but they were all talking over each other.

“If that’s so, he’s been stealing all along. Hey, we did have a bad [Thief] problem in Lancrel. If it was Elmmet all this time…”

“Don’t say that. Dead gods! How’d our Watch Captain not deal with him?”

“Maybe—”

“Nothing’s proven yet. We’ll see tomorrow. It’ll all be settled under truth spell, right?”

At this, uneasily, the Lancrel folk nodded. Durene watched the silent group as they got back to work and felt a twinge of her own uneasiness. She helped for another hour and left when the framework and everything heavy had been set up.

For the rest of the day, Durene just carried things. She was faster than the wagons that were getting stuck in the muddy streets, and she could lift a lot with just her two hands. A paved street was one of the things everyone she met agreed that Riverfarm needed next. It was just that laying paving stones was an arduous task, and there were more important things to do first, like making sure that Riverfarm wouldn’t starve.

“Even so, we could subdivide. Set, er, forty men on the task, and I guarantee they’ll make good progress each day. All we need is a few experienced [Builders], a [Digger] or two perhaps—it’d be an efficient use of time, wouldn’t it?”

A man wearing a fine cotton coat was taking a break with some other city folk under the eaves of a roof as Durene trotted past with a huge tub of water for the [Cooks]. Durene slowed down to listen as the man went on.

“It’s not hard. Why not spare some men? The answer is that Mister Prost and Lady Rie don’t think it’s necessary. But why not? They’re always rushing about so why not appoint a supervisor to deal with the roads? Come to that, why not organize the village with more officials? There’s no hierarchy here, just those two.”

“There’s more than that. They have [Foremen] and people in charge of each area.”

One of the women wiped some rain from her cloak. The man with the nice coat paused.

“Ye-es… but I’m talking people with authority. People used to managing—there are a few, but they’re all from the villages. What about us?”

“They were here first, Rodivek. We’re newcomers.”

“But we have the classes they don’t. What’s a [Headman] know of managing a few thousand people? I was a [Mayor] of my town. And Beatica was a [Councilwoman] for over two decades! Don’t you think it’s slightly unfair that so many of us have no say in how this place we’re building is developed?”

Durene watched as the crowd shifted. Some people didn’t seemed convinced by Rodivek’s little speech, but more than half were nodding uncertainly. She walked away quickly.

Rodivek and Beatica. Those were two names she’d heard more than once on the tongues of people who identified as city folk. She didn’t like the man. As for the woman—Durene met her that night as she took her dinner in one of the mess halls.



—–



“Frostwing, shush!”

Durene was tending to the bird as people ate their dinners or collected them for eating elsewhere at the queues in the cookhouses. Her bird had been much better behaved after a few days around Durene, but Frostwing was still somewhat feral. And when she was hungry, the bird was hard to control. She kept trying to peck at other people who hurried past, guarding their food. Durene eventually had to grip the bird against her chest and, ignoring Frostwing’s furious pecking, collect some meat and her dinner.

“Screech and you don’t get any meat, understand? Just sit here and be quiet.”

The half-Troll girl knew that Frostwing could understand her. After a glare, the bird meekly hopped onto Durene’s arm and began to gobble food. Durene sighed and tore into the hot, toasted bun filled with bits of fruit and some goat’s cheese. To her delight, there were bits of meat in her meal as well! It tasted like…game. Rabbit maybe, or some other small animal. It was hot, filling, and Durene realized her portion wasn’t nearly enough. With the bowl of onion soup, it might be for most folks, but Durene’s stomach was still growling.

“I need two more portions.”

A bit ashamed, Durene went back to the [Cook]. The man opened his mouth to protest, looked Durene up and down, and silently gave her two more sandwiches and filled her bowl. The half-Troll girl blushed at the looks from some of the other people around her, but was too hungry to complain. She was sitting at one of the tables in the building, letting Frostwing peck at one sandwich, when she heard a woman’s voice.

“I simply cannot understand why you won’t accept our modest proposals, Lady Rie. Nobility is one thing, but I would like to remind you that we are speaking for all of Lancrel. A city has a voice, you know.”

Durene looked up. She spotted Lady Rie immediately. The woman had for once decided not to wear a completely formal dress, but her clothing was still very elegant. A [Lady]’s riding dress perhaps, although white and yellow, as if that wouldn’t smudge instantly. She’d kept herself clean, though, and dry. She was also frowning, her colored yellow lips pursed as she faced a small group of women…Durene frowned as she spotted the woman in front.

Beatica was a woman in her early forties, but she certainly didn’t lack when it came to beauty herself. Her hair was styled, her clothes practical, but more expensive than anything anyone in Riverfarm would own. She had no jewelry save for a large and clearly expensive ring on one finger—oh, and she practically radiated confidence. Durene looked at Beatica, and when the woman smiled, Durene felt like standing up and following her.

At least, a part of her did. It was instantly quashed by another part of Durene, which stared at the woman and felt an uneasy sense of familiarity. Her presence, the way the people around her hung on her every word—it all reminded Durene of one person.

Laken. Only, if he were a beacon of inspiration, Beatica was a torch. It was still effective, and Durene felt her attention immediately going to the woman, fixing on her argument with Rie. Moreover, most of the people in the room turned to listen as well. Beatica flashed them all a smile, then focused on Rie.

“We’re proposing to help Riverfarm. We have come here and worked these last weeks, haven’t we? Don’t we deserve a chance to use our classes to their fullest extent? Give us a chance! I am a former [Councilwoman]—there are [Mayors] such as Rodivek from Hewlat—we can take over some of the tasks that have clearly left you and Mister Prost running ragged. Let us manage a few small groups. We are familiar with our citizens—we can take care of pressing issues, like paving the ground.”

She gestured outside to the muddy streets. Lady Rie did something like a smile with her face, but her voice was somewhat icy as she replied.

“While I understand your enthusiasm, Miss Beatica—”

“Councilwoman, please, Lady Rie. I didn’t give up my class when I left my city. And I consider myself in charge of my people, even though we have lost our home.”

The woman interrupted Rie smoothly, gesturing to the crowd behind her. But that wasn’t what made Durene sit up in amazement. The half-Troll girl saw Rie’s mouth open and close while she spoke, but no words had come out. Beatica had used a Skill! Lady Rie made a sound and then glared at Beatica.

“I would appreciate you not using your Skills on me, Miss Beatica. And while I appreciate your…zeal in taking care of your people, I remind you that you came here. This is Emperor Laken’s domain. Not Lancrel’s. He may appoint leaders among Lancrel’s population when he returns. Until then, I believe Riverfarm is adequately handled between Prost and I and the people we have chosen.”

A murmur of agreement rose from some of the rural crowd in the room. Beatica pursed her lips. She clearly didn’t like Rie’s response, so she turned and appealed to the people from Lancrel and the towns.

“You say that, Lady Rie, but you’ve been saying that for nearly two months now! This talent is going to waste lying unused! Don’t we have [Tailors] without work, [Secretaries] whose Skills could be used setting up businesses—”

“We have no need for business at this moment, Miss Beatica. The money Riverfarm earns goes to build Riverfarm. Private ventures can wait until everyone has a roof over their heads, don’t you agree?”

It was Rie’s turn to sweetly interrupt Beatica. The woman narrowed her eyes.

“How will we earn a living then, Lady Rie? So far, we have generously donated to Riverfarm’s construction, but many of us would like to earn money, would we not?”

That got a round of nods, mostly from the city dwellers again. Rie looked around and raised her voice.

“This is not his city. I remind you that this is the sovereign territory of [Emperor] Laken. His Majesty has allowed any number of Lancrel’s folk to come to Riverfarm, provided shelter and food despite having no obligation to—he even fought for Lancrel when the city’s own militia abandoned it, didn’t they?”

She looked pointedly at Beatica. The woman colored.

“The army failed to liberate Lancrel—”

She hesitated, and her eyes flicked around the room. Many of the villagers had folded their arms. Beatica switched sentences so fast Durene blinked.

“—and we appreciate their sacrifice of course! But there is such a thing as democracy, surely? Don’t we, as citizens of His Majesty Godart’s, ah, empire¸ deserve a voice? Or is his will the only one we are permitted to follow?”

Uneasiness followed her words. Rie’s brow twitched.

“Of course you will have a voice. But I invite you to wait for His Majesty to return, Miss Beatica. This is all quite forward of you. In fact, the fourth day in a row you’ve made this a public subject. I was discouraged to learn that you spent little time helping in your assigned task. One would almost imagine that you regarded the effort of washing clothes beneath you.”

All eyes swung back to Beatica. The woman hesitated and flushed.

“Not at all. I’m simply concerned with the wellbeing of—”

“Lancrel. Indeed. I would suggest you help clothe them, then. One cannot work with sullied garments. All of Riverfarm is working, Miss Beatica. Which reminds me, I must get back to my job. Enjoy your break.”

With that, Rie swept past the [Councilwoman]. Durene felt oddly pleased to see Beatica’s eyes flashing furiously as Rie and her bodyguard, the [Fistfighter] Geram, swept out of the mess hall.

“Wow. There are people even Rie has trouble with.”

Durene murmured to Frostwing. She was glad Rie had won, though, and fairly convincingly so if the nods from the people around her were anything to judge. Even so, there was a murmur among Lancrel’s lot as she left, and Beatica instantly turned to her crowd and addressed them, looking apologetic and slightly outraged. Durene didn’t listen to what was being said—she grabbed Frostwing and hurried towards the door, hoping to catch Rie.

On the way, Durene passed Beatica and the crowd of well-dressed folk. Durene did nothing but stride past them, but as the first heads turned and noticed her, a woman recoiled and cried out. The shrill shriek was echoed by exclamations from the crowd. Durene paused and turned.

“Something wrong?”

The Lancrel city folk stared up at Durene, faces pale. Councilwoman Beatica smiled, but she visibly placed her hands behind her back as everyone but her stepped back.

“Nothing at all. You’re Miss Durene, aren’t you? I apologize—my people have never met someone, ah, as notable as you.”

“You mean a half-Troll.”

“Ah. Of course.”

The woman hesitated. Durene turned to her.

“I’m a [Paladin]. One of Riverfarm’s protectors. I was at Lancrel fighting the Goblins. I’m glad to see so many people made it out alive. We paid a heavy price that day. How do you do?”

She held out a hand. The people behind Beatica murmured and looked at her. The woman hesitated. She looked at Durene’s hand and held out her own. When she shook Durene’s hand, it was very, very quickly, and her touch was so light—the woman withdrew her hand and gave Durene a charming smile. Durene wasn’t fooled. She’d felt the sweat on the palm.

“We are all grateful, of course. And I hope to meet His Majesty, Laken Godart, and convey my personal thanks. Ah—I notice you have a companion. What a radiant fellow.”

She indicated Frostwing. Durene looked at the bird, and Frostwing fluttered her wings. Some in the crowd admired the bird’s brilliant blue plumage.

“It’s a she.”

“How magnificent. I’ve never seen the species.”

Beatica reached out for Frostwing.

“I wouldn’t. She pecks.”

Frostwing lashed out, and Beatica withdrew her hand just in time. She eyed the bird and winced as Frostwing screeched.

“I—see. Well, it’s a pleasure to meet you, Miss Durene. Do I understand that you’re, um, deeply acquainted with His Majesty?”

She looked Durene up and down. The half-Troll girl flushed.

“He and I are in a relationship.”

The murmur from the Humans behind Beatica this time went quiet as Durene looked at them. Beatica smiled thinly.

“How incredible. I do hope you’ll introduce me to His Majesty. Until then?”

Durene nodded. Without a word, she turned, and Beatica stepped back. Durene felt the woman’s eyes on her all the way to the door and out of it. And she began understanding just how worried Prost and Rie were.

Beatica reminded Durene of a weasel, and Lancrel’s folk were like anxious chickens who’d convinced themselves she was one of them. Frightened chickens, gathering together en masse. Only, if you’d ever seen chickens pecking one of their own to death, you understood why that was a problem.



—–



That night, Durene met Wiskeria at the cottage. She hadn’t seen the [Witch] all day, but Wiskeria’s exhausted face told her the [Witch] had been working hard in her own way. Durene made them tea as Frostwing huffily settled herself in her nest. Outside, Bismarck groaned at the door until Durene threw out some freshly grown produce to shut him up.

“How was your day?”

Wiskeria sipped from her drink and shrugged.

“It wasn’t great. Wasn’t bad either. I mainly—talked. With families. And survivors. There are a lot of us.”

“Are you—”

“No. No army.”

The [Witch] put down her cup with a grimace. She looked at Durene.

“I saw you for a bit. You pushed over a tree.”

“It was a small one. And it’s faster than cutting.”

Embarrassed, Durene felt at her hair. Wiskeria shook her head. She stared into her mug and then spoke pensively.

“You know what most of the [Soldiers] called me? The ones who fought? ‘General’ Wiskeria. As if I deserve the name.”

“You have the class.”

“I don’t deserve it. You remember what that woman, Rehanna, said to me?”

“She was just angry. She wasn’t right—”

Wiskeria shook her head. She adjusted the hat and looked down.

“I’m no [General]. That’s just something Laken gave me. It’s not my true nature. I was playing at being a [General]. When push came to shove—I collapsed. I should never have accepted his offer.”

Durene hesitated.

“But you gained the class. You led an army. You led me, Wiskeria. Or didn’t fighting all those Goblins mean anything?”

The [Witch] shook her head.

“It’s not the same as a real battle. I could do some things, but when I found a real enemy to fight—strategy, tactics, leadership—I could make a lot of people move in one direction, feed them, set a few traps with helpers. But in that battle, I was swallowed, Durene. I couldn’t lead, and that’s part of the reason we lost.”

Silently, Durene put down her cup. She took a slow breath.

“I’m a [Paladin], Wiskeria. Laken gave me that class.”

The [Witch] nodded.

“And I’m a [General]. Do I look like one to you?”

She touched her hat. Durene inhaled to protest, and then she studied her hands. Her grey skin. She gazed around at her cottage, hand-built, out her window at the garden that Bismarck had torn up searching for food, and then at Wiskeria. The young woman stared back.

A witch and a farmer girl. They held each other’s gazes a moment and then burst out laughing. They laughed as if it were the funniest joke in the world. The saddest. In the end, Durene caught herself before a laugh could turn into a sob. They sat together then as the light faded and a candle Durene lit flickered low on the table. It was dark. Frostwing tucked her head under one wing.

“I want to be a [Paladin], Wiskeria.”

“I know. And I think you can do it, Durene, I really do. But I don’t want to be a [General]. I can’t do that again. I can’t be responsible for all those lives.”

Durene nodded. Wiskeria was looking down at the table. At last, the [Witch] raised her head.

“What is a [Paladin], by the way? I never asked. It’s like a [Knight], but…is it some rare class variant like Beniar’s [Cataphract]?”

Durene shook her head. She played with her empty cup as she recalled asking Laken just that.

“Laken says they used to be just trusted military leaders in service to some [Emperor]. But apparently the word changed. It began to mean…well, a [Knight], but one dedicated to heroism and chivalry. Someone who does good deeds.”

“Isn’t that what knights are supposed to do?”

Durene smiled. She quoted Laken.

“A [Knight] is a retainer. A warrior pledged to a cause. A [Paladin] is someone who crusades. Who goes out and…helps people. Apparently, it’s perfect for me. I just want to help people. But I haven’t leveled for a while. I think I’m missing something.”

Wiskeria nodded. She stared at Durene and then took her hat off and looked at it.

“I’m a [Witch]. Do you…know much about my kind?”

“No. I hear stories, um…but Riverfarm never had a [Witch]. Other villages do.”

Durene bit her tongue before she went on. From the stories she’d been told before meeting Wiskeria, [Witches] weren’t to be trusted. They could make potions and do some magic. But they were shifty, dangerous even. Wiskeria smiled bitterly.

“I’m sure you’ve heard stories. And like I said this morning, [Witches] are complex. We do magic, but we have a wide variety of abilities. Alchemy, magic—even beast taming and gardening and more. But we’re not specialists, like, say, a [Beast Master].”

The half-Troll girl nodded, then she had a thought.

“Hey, Wiskeria. Can you make potions? I heard a [Witch] can make potions like an [Alchemist]. Mister Prost was saying that if we could get a good [Alchemist] here, we’d be able to heal all sorts of things without needing to buy potions. What if you made them? I’m sure everyone’d appreciate that!”

She looked at the [Witch] hopefully. Durene had always wanted to know how potions were made! That was real magic, as powerful as any spell. But Wiskeria shook her head.

“No, that’s a myth. Or an exaggeration of the truth, really. I made poison when Laken asked me to. Enough of it to poison the Goblin army. Healing…I can’t do potions. [Alchemists] do complicated reactions in bottles, and I don’t have the equipment or the knowledge.”

“Oh.”

Durene felt a bit let down by that confession. She had an image of a [Witch] hunched over a cauldron full of magic. Wiskeria hesitated. She touched her hat and thought for a second, then looked up.

“I can’t do potions. I can do a brew, though.”





Day 55 – Ryoka



Running was fun. Running was good for the body. Running relaxed Ryoka. It could also be boring, though. That was why, surprisingly, it was fun to have Charlay running with her as Ryoka headed south down the increasingly less-populated main roads towards Riverfarm.

She had a delivery. And she had a lot of money waiting for her when she got there. And a possible crisis. But unlike her run to Walta, Ryoka wasn’t pushing it. Nor could she, really; the wind had been unhappy yesterday, and it was upset today. Not that it mattered; Ryoka had run for eight hours yesterday and for nearly eight more today with a few breaks and she was still far from her destination.

It wasn’t one day’s journey, or even two. Ryoka thought they’d reach Riverfarm in another day at their pace. It was good enough for her; Laken had said he needed her there soon, but he wasn’t paying for a lightning-fast delivery. Charlay couldn’t resist complaining, though.

“I’m tired. When do we get another break?”

“When we find an inn or another village. Why? I thought you were the fastest runner in Walta.”

Ryoka teased the Centauress as they ran side-by-side down a deserted road. Riverfarm was far from a populated hub, so sometimes they could find themselves running with few to no travellers for hours at a time. Charlay glared at Ryoka as she folded her arms, trotting to keep up. She had sweat on her brow, and she looked displeased.

“I said fastest! I don’t normally trot everywhere, you know.”

Charlay was tired after eight hours. To be fair, Ryoka was too, but she’d only used one stamina potion on top of her breaks. Charlay had used two and might need a third, which was slightly dangerous. But she was genuinely tired, not just complaining.

She had the endurance of a horse, which meant that she could run much faster than Ryoka on flat terrain, but she tired faster too. And since she had to chain herself to Ryoka’s pace, it was ironically Charlay who struggled more.

“If I was doing my deliveries, I wouldn’t have to run at your slow pace. All my Skills are devoted to galloping fast or doing tricks, not long-distance! I wish I had [Lesser Endurance]. Or [Greater Endurance]. Or [Second Wind] or something. Hey, what Skills do you want to get? You never told me what level you are.”

Charlay’s complaints instantly switched back to chatter. Ryoka sighed.

“Sorry, trade secret.”

She ducked as Charlay tried to shove her with one arm. The Centauress galloped further to the side, away from Ryoka, affronted.

“What? I thought we could share Skills! Well, fine. I won’t tell you my class or my Skills either, then!”

She tossed her head, as she always did, but Ryoka saw she was genuinely hurt this time. Charlay was…Ryoka could best describe her as dramatic, like a caricature of a girl who took everything personally and never said what she was really feeling. But apparently it was typical of Centaurs, who were all about appearance.

Ryoka had figured that out, and Charlay was actually fairly sensitive underneath her bluster. The young woman sighed as she tried to figure out a possible excuse—or make up a bunch of Skills—when she spotted something on the road ahead of her.

“Hold up. Charlay, you see that?”

The Centauress was pouting, but she looked up at the tone in Ryoka’s voice. She slowed from her trot, and Ryoka went from a fast jog to a walk. She stared at the building up ahead of her. Or rather, what was left of it.

“Dead g—shit.”

A blackened ruin of a building lay just off the side of the road. A farmstead, destroyed and abandoned. The two Runners looked at each other and ran closer, but hesitantly. Ryoka felt at her bag of holding, and Charlay pawed the ground with one hoof, uneasy.

“[Raiders], do you think?”

“Maybe. Do we check for people?”

Ryoka eyed the buildings. They looked long abandoned, and she was reluctant to investigate. You never knew what might be lurking in places like that. Said [Raiders] or monsters. Charlay shook her head.

“If it was still smoking, maybe. But look—the field was burnt over there, see? It’s already started to regrow in places. This is abandoned.”

Ryoka noticed the field beyond the farmstead and nodded. Someone had set flame to the field beyond, but the blackened soil was already showing bits of green.

“Let’s go, then. Keep an eye out?”

Charlay nodded silently, her tiff with Ryoka forgotten. The two Runners moved on, now cautiously scanning the landscape. But they soon found that whatever had afflicted this one farm wasn’t a singular occurrence.

“Oats. What happened to this place?”

Charlay stared at the eighth ruin they passed by. Ryoka just shook her head. This road they were taking south wasn’t the only one, but it painted a horrible picture. Every single place they’d come to was like this. Lonely houses, even a village, all lying in ruin. Something had swept down this way, leaving only destruction in its wake.

Burned farmlands. Houses pillaged by fire. Ryoka didn’t know if it was [Bandits] or…she eyed a ruined mill and wondered how many [Bandits] could do this much damage. Surely villages and towns had militias. Or what about local cities? Adventurers would hunt [Bandits] just like monsters. What had caused this?

“This is Laken’s home? What the hell happened here?”

She muttered to herself as she ran. Charlay turned her head to stare down at Ryoka.

“Laken. That’s your client, right? The [Emperor]? Is he really an [Emperor]? And how does he know you?”

The young woman paused.

“It’s, uh, a long story. I was hired by him in Invrisil.”

“And is he really an [Emperor]?”

“…Maybe? How do you know about him?”

Charlay snorted and stamped a hoof. She ran ahead of Ryoka so she could twist at the waist and glare down at the young woman.

“Informants, of course! I can buy information just like everyone else. And everyone’s heard the rumors. An [Emperor] was with Tyrion Veltras—he’s claimed the lands around Riverfarm—but it’s in the middle of nowhere! An [Emperor] should have a huge amount of land! And a, you know, empire?”

“Well, he’s got one village. And he hired me because I met him once.”

“Really? To deliver a bunch of low-grade potions to a [Lady]?”

Charlay eyed Ryoka, arms folded. The Runner girl shrugged.

“Yup.”

“You’re lying.”

“Maybe I am. But you’re coming with me, so you can see what I’m doing.”

“You’re not going to tell me why you know this [Emperor] or he wants you? We’re friends, Ryoka.”

“And friends don’t pry into each other’s secrets, Charlay. You’ll find out soon enough. Don’t kick dirt at me or I’ll hit you.”

“You deserve it! I’m going with you out of the goodness of my heart, and you won’t even tell me why—”

Bickering, the two were climbing a slight rise when Ryoka saw movement below them. She took one look down at the shapes below them and held out a hand. Charlay nearly ran her over and reared.

“Don’t do that! I could have hurt—”

She shut up as Ryoka whirled.

“Get back!”

Charlay wheeled, and Ryoka sprinted back down the hill. The Centauress crouched, although she was still far bigger, and Ryoka turned her head, her heart suddenly racing.

“What? What’d you see?”

“Let me check again. Stay there.”

Ryoka flattened herself to the earth and crawled back up the slope. Charlay ran a bit down the rise, and Ryoka peeked over the edge. She came crawling back and then ran at a crouch to Charlay.

“Oh shit. [Bandits].”

The Centauress froze.

“You’re sure?”

Ryoka nodded. Down the hill was a straightaway and what looked like marshland up ahead. They’d have to cross through the edge of it, but what had caught Ryoka’s eye was a bunch of distant riders. Normally, Ryoka would have assumed it was a caravan, an adventuring group—but she’d seen the corpse on the ground before Charlay.

“I only saw a few people on horseback. You’re sure it was [Bandits]?”

“Either that person on the ground is napping or they just killed a traveller.”

Ryoka snapped back, checking her belt. She’d counted sixteen, and half of them mounted. Some local group? A wandering band using the marshes as a base? Charlay pranced nervously.

“One of them might have been injured—”

“He was napping in blood, Charlay.”

“Oh.”

The two City Runners looked at each other. Ryoka’s hands were shaking a bit. She’d run into [Bandits] on runs before, but this was the first time she’d seen them before they saw her. And this was a larger group than most.

“We can try going off the road and sneaking around them. Or going back and taking another route.”

“Maybe. They won’t stay there for long, though. They’ll hide, and then we won’t know where they are.”

Charlay peered uneasily at the group up ahead. Ryoka nodded.

“So what do we do? Try and break through? They’re on horses. If I could use the wind, I could try blinding them. Or using caltrops, but it’s risky—”

The Centauress was shocked.

“What? I was saying let’s go way around them! Miles away! Are you crazy? I’m not tangling with a [Bandit] group if I can help it.”

“Oh.”

Ryoka blushed. She looked at Charlay.

“But you do have some Skills, right? If they attack us, can’t you whip out a bow and fight them off?”

“I don’t use a bow! Do you think all Centaurs use a bow? That’s racist!”

“Excuse me. How do you fight back, then?”

“I…have my hooves? And two wands. And this!”

Charlay pulled out a dagger and waved it uncertainly at Ryoka. The young woman stared at it. Charlay turned red.

“It works! I outrun people, mostly. And I can knock someone off a horse with my wands. That’s usually all I need. And I can make a dust cloud.”

“Right. Dustrider Charlay.”

Ryoka sighed. She supposed that was all Charlay needed. She stared at the rise and shook her head.

“I’m no good without the wind. And I agree; I’m not fighting [Bandits]. We’ll have to go back, find a really long way around. Damn.”

“Better than having them chase us. Let’s go before they finish and come this way.”

Charlay pointed back down the road. Ryoka nodded. She felt…guilty leaving the [Bandits] there. And the person on the ground—were they alive? Ryoka bit her lip. She couldn’t dwell on it. She was no hero. And neither was she a killer. Sixteen [Bandits]?

She and Charlay might be able to break through if Ryoka was certain the wind would come to her. If she conjured a dust storm, she’d be pretty confident they could get away. But that still was only for getting away. City Runners didn’t take unnecessary risks, and running ten miles around that group was preferable to risking any kind of fighting.

Slowly, Ryoka began to jog down the road after Charlay. The Centaur was trying to trot as quietly as she could, which was not that quiet at all. She beckoned to Ryoka and then froze, pointed. Ryoka inhaled sharply.

Someone was coming down the road. The figure was far distant and moving at a brisk walk, but they were definitely headed this way. Ryoka and Charlay exchanged a glance.

“One of—”

“No. Just a traveller. Let’s warn them. Come on!”

Ryoka was instantly worried. Not for them, but for the traveller. She and Charlay were going to run to get out of the [Bandit]’s line of sight, but whomever this was might not be able to get away. And if the [Bandits] came over the rise and saw them—

Ryoka and Charlay raced towards the distant figure a few hundred feet away. As they neared, Charlay called out.

“Hey! Hey, you! Stop! There’s [Bandits] up—”

She halted in her tracks, staring. Ryoka, catching up, halted as well and stared in astonishment. Alevica tipped up her purple hat and regarded Ryoka and Charlay with a blink of surprise. Her bright pink eyes flicked from Ryoka’s face to Charlay’s.

“You two again. What a surprise.”

She smiled, a flick of sardonic amusement. The young woman, still older than both Ryoka and Charlay, looked at the two and then past them.

“What’s your rush?”

“Uh—”

Charlay backed away from Alevica, frightened. Ryoka glanced over her shoulder and spoke tersely.

“[Bandits]. They’re on the road ahead, just before the marsh.”

Alevica’s brows rose, but that was it.

“Really? You’re sure?”

“I think they killed someone. We’re heading back. You should too. There are sixteen of them.”

“Really now.”

The other City Runner put her hands on her hips and smiled slightly, looking at Ryoka. She shook her head.

“You’re running from the [Bandits]? I thought the Wind Runner was tougher than that. I’d expect this from Charlay, but you?”

The amusement hit a button marked ‘Anger’ in Ryoka’s chest. She gritted her teeth.

“I’m just being practical. There’s at least eight on horseback, and some could be [Mages]. I have no idea what level they are.”

Alevica looked around the deserted landscape.

“If this is where they’re hiding, I’d say it’s low. You can hide, but I’m heading this way. I’ve done my delivery, and I don’t feel like wasting time.”

So saying, she reached into the pouch at her side and began rummaging around in it. A bag of holding. Ryoka stared at that and then Alevica.

“Wait, you’re going to fight?”

“Sure am, Miss Wind Runner. You’re free to join me. Charlay, you can hide over there. There might be a bush large enough to hide you.”

Alevica pulled out something from the bag and shook it out. Ryoka stared as Alevica fastened it around her head. And then, with a start, Ryoka recognized what they were.

Goggles. Crude, compared to the modern, streamlined kind. Glass lenses set into leather. But goggles nonetheless. Alevica secured them and then reached into her bag of holding a second time.

“How about it, Ryoka? I’m sure you like [Bandits] as much as I do. Besides, it’s the job of [Witches] to clean up messes when we come across them. I don’t…except when it’s easy like [Bandits]. How about you, good little Miss Runner? Want to show me how good Reizmelt’s top runner is?”

“I—”

Ryoka looked at Charlay. The Centauress was shaking her head, her eyes wide. Ryoka looked at Alevica. The young woman paused. Then she pulled out a broom from her pouch. Ryoka’s eyes went wide.

“Well?”

Alevica tossed the broom on the ground. It was a broom, but it wasn’t at the same time. Ryoka was familiar with brooms, sweeping brooms, plastic-handled, with wide, flat bottoms from her world. This one wasn’t. The handle was wooden, long, and the end was thrush, tied together in a way that didn’t look at all appropriate for sweeping. But it did look like—

Ryoka looked up and met Alevica’s eyes. In her mind, something exploded. It couldn’t be—

“Well? Last chance.”

Alevica grinned as she put one foot on the handle of her broom as it lay in the dust. Ryoka hesitated. She glanced at Charlay and took a bit too long in replying. Alevica sighed.

“Too bad. I really expected more from you. I’ll do it myself, then. Up!”

So saying, the [Witch] placed her other foot on the broom’s handle. And it rose from the ground. Ryoka stumbled back, staring. Alevica, standing on the broom as if it were a skateboard, as if it were solid, winked down at Ryoka. She put one hand on her hat. And she flew.

The broom shot forwards like an arrow, carrying Alevica with it over the rise in the hill. As she flew, Alevica laughed, a wild, free sound. She shot over the hill, faster than Ryoka could sprint. Ryoka’s jaw stayed open. Charlay danced over to her.

“Ryoka! We have to go! The [Bandits] are going to—”

She halted as Ryoka whirled to her and pointed. The Human girl shouted, forgetting about the [Bandit].

“She can fly!?”

“She’s a [Witch]! What did you think she could do, lay eggs?”

“But—”

Ryoka stared at the air where Alevica had been. Yes! She knew Alevica was—but they could actually—Charlay was tugging at Ryoka.

“We have to go.”

“She just went right towards the [Bandits]!”

Ryoka protested. Charlay shook her head.

“It doesn’t matter! She’s fast on that broom! She could outrun them! But what if she sets them on us?”

“She wouldn’t do that. Would she?”

The two stared at each other. Charlay’s eyes were wide and frightened. Ryoka felt a lurch in her stomach.

That was when the screaming started. The two Runners jerked as a shrill scream split the air. Charlay bolted—Ryoka whirled, grabbing a handful of caltrops from her bag of holding. She called for the wind, but it only blew into her face.

“Ryoka!”

Charlay beckoned. But Ryoka, listening, heard a second scream split the air. It was a man’s voice. The first had been a woman’s. Neither sounded like Alevica. She looked back at Charlay.

“I have to see.”

“No—”

The Centauress’ eyes widened as Ryoka ran for the rise, caltrops in hand. She hesitated and then ran after Ryoka, pulling out a wand from her bag of holding. Ryoka was first to the top of the incline. She stared down as Charlay appeared next to her. The Centauress stared down.

“What—”

Her breath caught in her chest. Below them, on the road where the marshy forest began, the two saw the group of [Bandits]. They were scattering, running, horses galloping left and right. Some were shouting, waving swords or trying to take aim. But the rest were running. Dying.

A [Witch] on a broomstick was swooping down on the [Bandits], holding something. Ryoka saw a flicker, and one of the [Bandits] fell, screaming. Alevica’s broom swerved as a [Mage] aimed and shot a bolt of lightning at her. The lightning crackled through the air where she’d been, and the [Witch] threw something. Ryoka saw the vial break and a plume of smoke and a small explosion—the [Mage] disappeared in it, but she heard his voice, shrieking.

“Dead gods. She’s fighting all of them?”

Charlay breathed. Ryoka stared down the hill. The [Bandits] were fleeing this way, trying to regroup. Alevica dodged down, avoiding an arrow, and, laughing, shot something back at a woman, who dove to avoid it. The [Witch] was still standing on her broom, circling, diving, turning at a pace the [Bandits] couldn’t follow. Like a bird in the sky. A hunter.

But it was one against over a dozen. Or—was it? Ryoka looked down the hill at the [Bandits]. Something was wrong. They were turning, fighting something besides just Alevica. The ones with bows and magic were futilely shooting at her, but the rest—

“Look! Dead gods, Ryoka, look! Undead!”

Charlay saw them before Ryoka could make out the distant shapes. Ryoka saw a pair of skeletons slashing at the [Bandits] from the side, advancing with iron swords. And more were appearing, thrusting their way out of the earth.

A trio of skeletons were dragging one man down into the ground they’d emerged from, pulling him into the earth, tearing at his face with their fingers. The man was screaming, trying to fight them off as they tried to pull him into the ground. His friends fought the undead, but Alevica refused to let them save him. She dove lower and pointed something at a man trying to pull his friend up.

Thunk.

Ryoka and Charlay both recoiled at the distinctive sound and noise. The man stumbled back, and a feathered shaft of wood appeared in his chest, going straight through his leather armor. Alevica had fired it from point-blank—her broom accelerated, carrying her past the other [Bandits], who chased her before she took to the air again. Ryoka stared at what the [Witch] was holding.

A crossbow. And her other hand was reaching for her bag of holding. Alevica flew up, high, high overhead, angling her broom up. Her feet slid down the handle until she stopped, forty feet overhead. There she calmly reloaded the crossbow.

“Kill her!”

The roar from below came from a woman on horseback. She had a spear, but Alevica was far out of range. Two [Bandits] fired, and one pointed a wand. Alevica glanced down, and her broom casually carried her forwards. The arrows and ray of light missed. Alevica turned, sat side-saddle down on her broom, and pulled another thing out of her bag of holding. Ryoka saw a glint of glass. She saw the small smile.

The broom dove. Alevica shot down as the [Bandits] scattered. The woman with the spear, the [Bandit Leader], refused to move, though. She aimed and, as Alevica dove, threw her spear with a roar.

It was a good cast. Alevica blinked as the spear flew at her. Ryoka saw it happen in a moment. The [Witch] turned, flying around the spear, but the spear turned to catch her. Alevica’s eyes widened—

Then the broom twisted. Alevica, sitting upright, rotated underneath the spear and flashed back up as it passed her. The spear tried to twist again, but it had lost momentum. It struck the ground. And Alevica flew at the [Bandit Leader]. She fired, and the horse the woman was riding screamed. The woman grabbed at her reins. Alevica flashed past her. Alevica’s other hand lashed out, and she threw something in the woman’s face.

A vial. It broke, and Ryoka saw a flash of fire. The [Bandit Leader] screamed, clutching at her face as the fire erupted along her face, her arms and shoulders. She writhed on the ground, rolling, but the flames wouldn’t go out. Alevica laughed, mockingly, and the rest of the [Bandits] fled. One threw down her weapons. Alevica flew towards her, and Ryoka saw her lash out. The shortsword slashed through part of the [Bandit]’s neck, and she collapsed.

The rest, seeing the fate of the one who’d thrown down their weapons, turned. They fought and died.

The last man disappeared as the skeletons surrounded him, hacking with bloody weapons. They looked up as Alevica flew past them and stopped, their bones and blades red. She made a sign, and they collapsed, turning to…dust.

It was silent after that. The [Witch] landed and investigated the bodies. She went from each one, checking them, rolling them over. Taking something from each. She spent only a few minutes there, and then the broom flew over to her. With one foot, she stepped up and turned the broom. She aimed towards the marsh ahead of her, the road, and began to fly forwards. At the last moment, she stopped and looked back up towards the slight hill and the two figures who’d watched her the entire time.

She was too far away, then, for Ryoka to see. But she knew Alevica was grinning.



—–



Silence. After Alevica had gone, it took Ryoka and Charlay a long time to go down the hill. It wasn’t for fear of Alevica returning. It was just frightening in another way.

The [Bandits]—and they were [Bandits]—had died hard. Several had fallen to Alevica’s crossbow bolts, two to the vials she’d thrown. The [Mage], whose corpse was still emitting smoke, made Ryoka and Charlay keep a wide distance. The [Bandit Leader] had stopped burning, but her upper body was charred.

Ryoka stared around at the dead sixteen. Some had died to skeletons. The last few Alevica had chopped down herself with the shortsword. She stared at the woman who’d thrown down her sword and noticed something else.

“Money pouches.”

“What?”

Charlay was breathing hard, her face white. She looked over as Ryoka pointed down.

“She took their money pouches. Potions too, I think.”

“O-oh. Well, that’s normal.”

“It is?”

Ryoka glanced up. Charlay nodded.

“If you kill [Bandits], you might as well sell their stuff, right? Adventurers do it. So why not…I don’t know any City Runners who kill [Bandits], but I heard…”

She broke off. Stared around at the bodies. Ryoka peered at the Centauress.

“You knew Alevica could fly?”

“Everyone knows. She can’t do it forever. That’s why she takes the carriage. But everyone knows she’s a [Witch]. She can do witchy things. No one messes with her, even though she’s got a bad reputation. But I’ve never seen…”

Charlay stared at the burnt corpse and shuddered. Ryoka stared down the road at where Alevica had gone. Part of her wanted to be impressed. Alevica had taken out a [Bandit] group. Low-level perhaps, but one had known a lightning spell, and she’d beaten sixteen of them by herself! But Ryoka couldn’t be impressed. Alevica had cut the rest down mercilessly, even when they’d tried to surrender, to run. It was—cruel.

But she had flown. The wind stirred. Ryoka touched her chest and felt her heart racing. She had flown. She looked at Charlay and, after a beat, pointed.

“Come on. We’ve got to report this.”

The Centauress started and nodded uncertainly. Someone had to know this [Bandit] group was dead. They’d report it at the next Runner’s Guild they came to. Ryoka doubted Alevica would even mention it.

It was very quiet as the two ran on. Very, very quiet. They never caught up to Alevica, and that night, both stopped at the town they’d come to. They made a short report at the Runner’s Guild. And it turned out Alevica had reported the encounter. She’d asked about a bounty on the [Bandits]. There had been none.

Ryoka left the guild as the [Receptionist] confirmed her report. She and Charlay ate quietly and went to bed in the only inn without saying much. And Ryoka thought of her.

The Witch Runner, Alevica.

She wondered what Ivolethe would have made of her. Alevica’s laughter haunted Ryoka’s mind. But it wasn’t a cackle. In a way, Alevica was everything Ryoka had wanted to be. That thought kept Ryoka up late into the night.

The next day, she arrived in Riverfarm with Charlay.





Day 56 – Durene



Durene and Wiskeria ate breakfast together in her cottage. After tossing the crusts out and watching Bismarck trying to catch them, they grabbed a basket each and headed into the forest. It was just the day for it.

The morning was amazingly, refreshingly dry. The sky was clear with not a cloud to be seen. And the sun’s warmth was welcome after so much drizzling. In fact, it had warmed the forest floor enough that neither Wiskeria nor Durene needed boots. The two walked, talking lightly, chatting, as Wiskeria led them into the forest on a hunt.

Frostwing flew from branch to branch, sometimes shrieking and diving after something in the forest. The rest of the time, she was restless, but she did stay in the general area around Durene and Wiskeria. Bismarck just ambled along next to the two, snuffling around for anything edible.

“I think she’s smarter than he is by a bit. Frostwing misses Laken, I can tell. And she’s smart enough to know where I keep food, and she can follow orders. Even if she never wants to. Bismarck is simpler. He’s just a stomach with legs.”

Bismarck currently had a basket strapped to his back with a bit of twine, and he didn’t seem at all bothered by it. When he heard his name, he looked up hopefully, as if expecting food.

“Gaurgih.”

Wiskeria smiled. She walked ahead of Durene, scouting the forest path they were using.

“You’re sure you said I could find everything I said I needed? Especially the Sage’s Grass?”

Durene nodded.

“I think so. The forest’s got a lot of good stuff growing in it. And I’ve seen, er—what did you call it?”

“Sage’s Grass. It’s slightly magical, and it’s a great ingredient that’s easy to grow. It’s slightly red and green, and it grows so long—”

Wiskeria indicated, and Durene nodded.

“Yes, I’ve seen that! It grows in clumps in the forest. Meadows usually. It’s worth something, isn’t it? One of our [Farmers] tried to grow it to sell at one of the other towns. He had a great big field of it. Only, that didn’t go so well.”

“Ah, I’d have warned him if I heard about that. It’s not good to try and grow if you’re not prepared.”

Wiskeria smiled and tugged on her hat. Durene nodded.

“Well, it was going well at the start. He bought a lot of expensive seed and got it to sprout, but he was having to pour lots of soil on it, fertilizer and such. And water. When it did begin to grow…”

“I think I know what happened. A monster?”

Durene shook her head, then hesitated.

“Well, sort of. It was a pack of huge rats. Each one as big as a dog. They just appeared and ate everything in the field. And everywhere else as well! We had to burn the field and send for as many dogs as we could to hunt them down. But I still found two trying to eat my piglets the week after.”

She shuddered at the memory. Wiskeria shook her head, but she didn’t look surprised.

“It’s a risky business. I’m surprised that [Farmer] got the grass to grow at all. He must have had a Skill or gotten lucky; Sage’s Grass feeds on mana. It produces it too, but there’s the problem. Magic attracts monsters. And farms, let alone ones with Sage’s Grass, are a magnet for anything hungry. [Alchemists] love the stuff, though.”

“Does anyone grow it? I can’t think of anyone around here who would. Not after the rats.”

Durene was curious as a [Farmer]. Wiskeria pondered the question, her head on a swivel for said grass or anything else on her list.

“I think a lot of Sage Grass comes from some farms up north around…Reizmelt? There’s a swampland there. Oh, and some from Celum in the south. Apparently, some [Farmer] specializes in growing it. It makes him rich. A double handful is enough for us, though. It’s not the most magical thing, but I can make do.”

“And you’re sure this’ll work? With mushrooms and some magical grass and stuff?”

“Yes. And there are no mushrooms necessary, Durene. Although if you find some edible ones, we can toss them in there. For variety and taste.”

The half-Troll girl frowned. But Bismarck was the one who interrupted the two. Wiskeria stepped aside as the bear lumbered forwards, suddenly snuffling.

“What is it?”

The Mossbear instantly headed off the path towards several large trees. He wove around them, and Wiskeria and Durene, following, saw him rooting at something. It was a large stand of—Durene and Wiskeria identified it at the same time.

“Barley grass.”

The Mossbear was happily tearing up the grass and consuming it. Wiskeria bent and took out the sickle she carried. Bismarck gaughed as she swept some up. Durene pushed his head back as he tried to nibble at Wiskeria’s bundle.

“Back off, Bismarck. We need that, right, Wiskeria?”

“It’s a component. I’ll need to extract the juices, but yes. If we can find more and prevent Bismarck from eating it—”

Wiskeria tossed it into the basket on his back. The Mossbear immediately tried to get it, but Durene grabbed his head.

“No, Bismarck. Help us find more of what Wiskeria wants and you get a potato. Understand? Potato.”

She bribed the bear with one, and he bit the ripe potato and licked her hand. Durene wiped it on his fur with a sigh. It had been a good idea to bring the Mossbear; his senses were better than hers or Wiskeria’s. It was just hard to control him.

“What else do we need?”

“Sage’s Grass. Barley grass…Tindleflowers, maybe dandelions or Americ if they’re budding…we’re going to be here for a few hours. Don’t worry, though. It’s not an exact recipe. The basis is really Sage’s Grass plus some extras. And I have dried herbs.”

Wiskeria patted her pouches. Durene nodded, and they coaxed Bismarck back to the path and let him snuffle onwards. Frostwing screeched overhead; she’d caught a baby bunny. Durene sighed.

They were making a brew. As Wiskeria had told Durene last night, potions were out of her expertise., but [Witches] had a unique set of talents of their own.

“It’s between cooking and alchemy. Closer to alchemy, really, but I’ve met a few [Witches] who could make magical dishes. But mostly, it is just stuff in cauldrons. It’s easier with water and heat. That’s where that image of [Witches] comes from, you know?”

Wiskeria led Durene through the forest. The half-Troll girl grunted as she peeled off some bark from a tree. You could actually eat the bark—and Bismarck was trying to—but Wiskeria didn’t want much. She was investigating patches of plants, picking them up, comparing what she had in her pouches and basket, and tossing some, keeping others. The [Witch] was so business-like that Durene didn’t feel like they were doing magic, just preparing a forest soup. Which was close, apparently.

“[Alchemists] buy all kinds of expensive and highly magical ingredients to make their potions so powerful. [Witches] don’t often have that kind of money, so we make natural recipes. This is just a healthy, restorative brew. It doesn’t need to follow an exact recipe like a Stoneskin Potion or something.”

“And where do wild strawberries figure into it?”

Durene peeked at a few red fruits in the basket Wiskeria held. The [Witch] smiled.

“They’re tasty? Seriously, though, strawberries feature in some recipes I know. Not this one; there aren’t enough, and they’d ruin the taste. Don’t worry, Durene. I know what I’m doing.”

“I’m not worried. It just doesn’t feel like magic.”

The [Farmer] girl complained as she yanked the basket off Bismarck’s back. It was full after three hours of scavenging, and he was trying to take it off and couldn’t be bribed. She walked back to the cottage with Wiskeria. The [Witch] needed her biggest cauldron.

“Will mine do? It generally just holds spare vegetables.”

Durene anxiously washed it out and plopped the heavy iron pot down outside. Wiskeria frowned as she ground up some of what she’d brought, including the bark.

“It should. Okay, we need to fill this cauldron with about half water—and we need some milk.”

“Fresh?”

“Preferably. Oh, and some broth. I know there’s some in Riverfarm. Can you get it?”

Durene looked dubious.

“What kind of broth?”

“Uh—vegetable? Yellat or turnip would do, but I think even a mix will be fine. It’ll have to be enough to fill the rest of the cauldron so high. No meat.”

Durene stared at Wiskeria. The [Witch] stared back, hands busy grinding. She looked over—Bismarck went for her bowl, and she slapped him across the face. The Mossbear groaned and retreated.

“Hurry up, will you? I can’t keep Bismarck busy for long. Hey! Fetch this potato! Oh, we’ll need more potatoes, Durene. And carrots. Actually, I have a list here—”

The half-Troll girl hesitated, but she was too far in it to back out now. She took the list, did a double-take, and frowned at Wiskeria. But then Durene tromped down into the village. It was abuzz with activity. More than one person had abandoned their job; Durene found out why as she caught hold of Miss Yesel and Chimmy helping pass out food. Miss Yesel blinked at the list, but she had Chimmy help source the ingredients willingly enough.

“What’s going on, Miss Yesel?”

The woman frowned as Chimmy helped fill a handcart for Durene to go back with.

“The trial’s what’s going on, Durene. My Prost’s going to show everyone that so-called Master Elmmet’s nothing more than a [Thief]! But the Lancrel folk aren’t happy. They’re already saying he’s innocent—whereas everyone with sense wants him out of Riverfarm or flogged! Or both! But there was already a fight when Prost tried to put the [Thief] in the pillory!”

She glared. By ‘everyone’, she’d meant all of the villagers. Durene nodded, glancing out the window as Chimmy put a closed-lid pail on the handcart with a grunt.

“I think we need at least two more pails, Chimmy.”

Yesel put her hands on her hips.

“Goodness, what’s all this for?”

“Magic, I think. I’ll be back soon, Miss Yesel. Wiskeria’s making something, but I’ll come to Riverfarm before the trial. What’s it in, an hour?”

Yesel nodded, looking relieved.

“I don’t expect any trouble, but it’d be good to have you about, Durene. Just in case. Everyone’ll see that Elmmet’s a monster, but just in case. That everything Wiskeria wants?”

Durene nodded and scowled at her list. She had a deep suspicion—she stomped back up the way to her cottage, pushing the handcart and taking care not to spill anything. Wiskeria was mixing the ingredients in the cauldron when Durene came back, and the [Witch] had started a fire.

Durene smelled a few acrid hints from the pot, but the rest looked just like edible stuff. And the Sage’s Grass. She had to admit, the red-green herbs swirling around in the pot, with their slight glow that illuminated the water, made the soup look more properly magical.

Wiskeria didn’t look the part, though. Oh, she had a hat and robes, but she was stirring the pot with a long-handled spoon. When Durene set down the cart, the [Witch] brightened.

“Oh good, you’re here. I was worried I’d boil this all too long. Okay, we’re going to dice the potatoes and carrots and toss them in here. Along with the broth. Did you get the spices?”

“I did.”

Durene eyed the pot and folded her arms. Wiskeria nodded.

“We don’t have to peel the potatoes. Just wash them. We’ll bring the brew to a boil, let it simmer for about twenty minutes, then add the cream. And then—”

“Wiskeria!”

The [Witch] jumped as Durene stamped her foot. Bismarck, sneaking up with his mouth open to the handcart, backed off hurriedly. The half-Troll girl glared at the [Witch]. Wiskeria looked at Durene warily.

“What?”

“This isn’t a brew! This is potato soup!”

The half-Troll girl howled in outrage. There was nothing magical in the soup besides some edible plants and the Sage’s Grass! She’d made soup like this a hundred times! Wiskeria turned red.

“No, it’s a brew. It just looks like potato soup to you. And it’ll taste a bit like it. The milk’s what I normally add—”

“You’re just making food! That’s not magical! How am I supposed to believe it’ll do anything besides fill my stomach?”

“You haven’t seen the final step. Besides, we added Sage’s Grass. That’s important.”

Wiskeria weakly protested. Durene glared.

“If I’m not impressed, I’m going to dump the entire pot over you. This had better be magic, Wiskeria. People need magic. Not food.”

The [Witch] opened her mouth to protest, and then her gaze grew distant. She tugged her hat lower and adjusted her spectacles.

“Food’s important. But this will be magic, Durene. I swear it by my fingers. If I lie, you can feed them to Bismarck. I swear it by the dead. It may look like fun and games, but I swear there’s magic here, by a [Witch]’s name.”

And when she said that and looked at Durene, her eyes were suddenly, scarily serious. Durene hesitated.

“You don’t have to do that. I mean, I like a good soup…”

She smiled lamely, suddenly disconcerted by Wiskeria’s change of mood. After a second, the [Witch] smiled, and everything was normal.

“That’s part of it. Good food is good magic, or so one of the [Witches] who taught me used to say. But there’s more to witchcraft than everyone thinks. It’s not the kind of magic [Mages] understand…let’s put in that broth. Do you have a spare cutting knife? I hate using my dagger.”

It was a potato soup. From the way the two diced the carrots and potatoes—Wiskeria had forgotten celery—to adding in spices and letting the soup simmer and thicken. Wiskeria even offered Durene a taste, and the girl had to admit it was good. Not magical, though.

But the magic was coming. Wiskeria’s solemn oath was first. As the soup was boiling and she had Durene stirring in the creamy milk from the cows, the [Witch] walked around the cauldron. Six times clockwise, three times counterclockwise. She traced a perfect circle each time, her steps all the same width.

Durene, busy tasting the soup for consistency as she added milk, barely noticed at first. But then she noticed that with each circle, the flames of the fire at the bottom of the cauldron were jumping slightly. Higher and higher with each of Wiskeria’s circuits. Durene nearly dropped the ladle.

“Wait, are you doing magic? Am I in the way?”

Wiskeria didn’t answer at first. She completed the third circle counterclockwise and then turned to Durene. The Troll girl stared. She had never thought of it, but Wiskeria’s eyes were a faint, yellowish green, weren’t they? Only, they looked more yellow than green. And they seemed to have the faintest luminescence in the morning.

Morning. Durene looked around her cottage. Trees all about, and the road leading down to Riverfarm was normal. It was just that there were a few more shadows. As if it were evening all of a sudden. But the sun was rising in the sky when she glanced up. Bright…except when you looked down.

“Wiskeria? Is this the magic bit? Are you going to cast a spell?”

Durene tried to chuckle. To her relief, Wiskeria laughed lightly and smiled.

“Just a bit of preparatory stuff. It’s just a ritual, Durene. [Witch] magic is more like rituals. We cast a few spells like my [Fox Fire] spell, but that’s [Mage] magic. This is about patterns.”

“Potato soup.”

Neither one laughed at that this time. Wiskeria just smiled. She glanced at the simmering pot. The soup was turning an appetizing creamy color, spotted with the spices and bits of herbs and carrots Durene had tossed in. The smell made Durene’s stomach rumble.

“It’s about intent. Intent, bits of magic—but mostly…will.”

“Will?”

“Oh yes. Good will, bad will…I’m sorry, I can’t explain. What’s left?”

“Uh—nothing much. It’s pretty close to done. Hey, this is a good soup. But it’d be better for some bacon or something. You know, for taste? I could run down and get some—”

“No. No meat. No dead flesh.”

Wiskeria’s head snapped up. She stared at Durene. The half-Troll girl froze.

“Okay.”

“That’s not the intention here. This pot is made with goodwill. To heal. For regrowth. Meat would spoil it. And I can’t do it twice. Give me a second.”

Wiskeria knelt and began adding wood to the fire. Durene felt like the soup was hot enough; any hotter and they’d burn it. But she only watched as the fire grew, and the brew began to bubble.

“You couldn’t make it twice? Why not? There’s enough ingredients in the forest and in Riverfarm to make a hundred soups like this, I wager.”

Wiskeria glanced up. She stood up slowly, and the fire ate up the wood, greedily rising.

“I can’t make a second brew or soup. Just like I can’t cast a hex the same way twice. The emotions are wrong. The history makes the magic. The wrongs I’ve done are going into this brew.”

She pointed down into the pot. Durene peered in and chuckled nervously. She looked around. Were there shadows in the cottage? She glanced up at the sun for reassurance, but it felt paler.

“I didn’t see you throwing anything bad in there.”

“It’s not just about what goes into it. It’s what’s done. Where’s the knife?”

Durene paused. Wiskeria found it and nodded. She reached up and, without hesitating, cut a lock from her hair. Not much. She went back to the pot with it.

“Aw, Wiskeria—”

The [Witch] tossed the hair onto the fire. Durene closed her mouth, and the flames ate the hair greedily. The stench of burning hair filled the air—and then it vanished. Durene blinked. She felt at her nose. Suddenly, the smell of the soup was there, but not the hair smell. And it smelled better than before.

“Um. Wiskeria? Is this more magic?”

“Yes.”

The [Witch] turned back. Her eyes were glowing. She took a few breaths and blew over the pot’s surface. And the liquid inside moved as if she were stirring it.

“Nearly done. The magic’s there. The stew’s good. All that’s left is the incantation.”

The [Witch] murmured to herself. Durene hesitated. She wasn’t sure she liked this anymore. The shadows were longer, she was certain. And—suddenly, Durene realized she hadn’t seen Bismarck. The greedy Mossbear would love this soup. So why wasn’t he…?

She looked around. Bismarck was nowhere to be seen. Slowly, Durene fixed on Wiskeria. The [Witch] was walking around the pot, doing that perfect circle again. Murmuring under her breath.

Goosebumps raced up Durene’s arm. Quickly—just to make sure he wasn’t going to interfere—she went around the cottage. She found Bismarck huddled in his den. He stared at her as she paused in relief.

“There you are. You’re, uh, not going to eat the soup, right? It’s important you don’t.”

The Mossbear stared up at Durene. He didn’t seem bored or hungry like he always did. Rather, he looked—wary. She reached for him after a second.

“You want to eat some scraps?”

Bismarck resisted Durene’s pull. He growled and then snapped as she tried to pull him out with more force. She let go at once. The Mossbear huddled in his den.

“Okay then. I’ll leave you.”

Disconcerted, Durene backed away. The fire was hot under the cauldron. The smell of the soup filled the air. There was another feeling too, a sense of tension. Almost like the feeling before a storm, but different. Wiskeria was bent over the cauldron. Durene couldn’t see her face. The half-Troll girl looked around. She didn’t like this anymore.

“Frostwing?”

The bird was hiding in her nest inside Durene’s cottage. Her head was under her wing, and when Durene tried to bring her outside, she flew back. She didn’t scream; that was the thing. She was silent, but she fought Durene coming out. At last, Durene walked outside and saw Wiskeria standing there.

Watching her. Durene halted. The [Witch] stood in front of the cauldron, and her eyes were glowing. Yellow mixed with green. Wiskeria spoke slowly.

“Remember what I said about [Witches] being different, Durene?”

“Yes?”

Durene quavered. Then she straightened. This wasn’t something to be afraid of! It was just—Wiskeria had told her she wasn’t above Level 30 in her [Witch] class. It was just a spell. If Durene kicked over the cauldron—her eyes flicked to the pot.

Kick over the cauldron? She didn’t want to do that. That felt like a…bad idea. But Durene was unnerved.

“This isn’t like regular magic, Wiskeria.”

The [Witch] smiled slightly. She breathed in and out—she was sweating hard, Durene realized.

“No. This isn’t like a regular spell. It’s the best I can do. I need to finish it now. Don’t worry; it feels…bad. I know. But the worst thing I could do is stop. There’s a lot of guilt in the air. Guilt and regret.”

Durene nodded. She stared around the cottage. Wiskeria breathed in and out rhythmically.

“I gathered it. That’s a thing [Witches] do. That’s what’s making this brew powerful. Now I need to perform the incantation. Durene, this is the most important part. You can listen. But don’t speak.”

Durene opened her mouth for a flippant remark and closed it. Wiskeria nodded. She turned back to the cauldron. This time, she walked around it. Not in the perfect circle, but urgently, bending, investigating the liquid inside. The soup swirled, as if following Wiskeria. And then she spoke.



“For a drink to warm the heart and body both,

I offer this harvest, by [Witch]’s ways and humble host

Sage’s Grass, gathered without cold iron’s sting,

Mushrooms, plucked from a faerie’s ring

Herbs grown in garden plot and nature’s walk,

Eleven dried things from [Merchants] bought

To bind it all, a liquid draught of ritual wrought

Come together now, to cure from this humble pot.”



It was a slow chant. Rhythmic. And with each step, the fire beneath the cauldron flared up a bit. Durene watched, breathless. It felt like the shadows were gathering around Wiskeria and the pot. The smell was beautiful, enticing. Durene felt her stomach gurgle. But what was the unease in the air? Wiskeria pointed.

A red glow sprang from the soup. Durene jumped until she realized. The Sage’s Grass. It was glowing in the pot. The [Witch] stepped closer, and Durene saw she had a knife. The half-Troll girl’s stomach clenched in unconscious anticipation, and she opened her mouth before she caught herself. Wiskeria murmured.

“And grief. And regret. And despair and death. And hatred, I add all of thee. Be swallowed and changed by goodwill. For a [Witch]’s repentance. Mercy.”

She flicked, and something flew into the pot. Durene saw it go, or did she feel it? The hum in the air intensified. Now she saw it. Wiskeria was struggling with something, pushing the shadows into the pot. Her face twisted with guilt, anguish, like Durene had seen in the meeting hall when she’d spoken to the families of the dead. She raised the knife in her left hand.

“And for power. A sacrifice for blood lost. Come now, come hither! Mend wounds and give life, for those who died in winter’s frost!”

The knife flashed down. Durene saw it slash across Wiskeria’s wrist. She stared in horror as blood splattered the cauldron, the sides—but none fell into the soup. It ran down and into the fire. The fire flared up, roaring for a moment, engulfing the cauldron. Wiskeria stumbled.

“Wiskeria!”

Durene rushed forwards. She couldn’t hold it in anymore. Only the [Witch]’s hand stopped her. Wiskeria put one hand on the cauldron to steady herself, and Durene saw and heard her hand hiss on the metal. The [Witch]’s face contorted with pain, but she looked up at Durene, panting.

“I’m fine. It’s not done. Hold on.”

The fire had died down. The boiling soup was still. Durene, hesitating, realized the shadows in the cottage had returned to normal. But there was still something left. Wiskeria reached for the stirring spoon. With her good hand, the one not burned and cut, she lifted some of the broth to her lips.

It was a thick, creamy soup that Durene saw Wiskeria sipping from. But it seemed deeper, more complex, better than any soup Durene could remember smelling. Ever. Wiskeria gulped down the soup hungrily, then looked at her right hand, the cut and burn there. And Durene gasped.

The wounds were closing! Slowly, so slowly. But Durene could see the flesh knitting, the blood stopping. The burn disappeared as Wiskeria and Durene stared at it. When the [Witch] lowered her hand, her eyes were green and yellow, sparkling, and her cheeks flushed with pride. Pride and life. She turned to Durene and smiled, tired, jubilant.

“It’s done. Want a taste?”

Durene stared at Wiskeria, then the soup. She stared at the offered ladle, felt her stomach rumble, and threw her hands up in the air.

“What was that?”



—–



“Old ways.”

That was all Wiskeria said when Durene had calmed down. She was grimacing, trying to figure out how to load the cauldron onto a handcart to transport it to Riverfarm. It wasn’t going to be easy; the cauldron was full, but neither she nor Durene could countenance wasting a drop of it. And it needed to be eaten from the cauldron, apparently.

“It’s the vessel it was made in. You can’t just bottle it, Durene. Well, you could, but it’ll be weaker. And it’ll lose its power after the first day, most of it. People need to eat this fresh!”

“And it’ll cure them? What did you do? I’ve never heard someone chant like that. No [Mage] could do that! What was with the shadows? The fire?”

Wiskeria shrugged.

“It’s [Witch] stuff.”

She hesitated as Durene made a fist. Wiskeria sighed.

“I can’t tell you everything, Durene. Like I said, these are old ways. Witchcraft is all about ritual. Using power that’s not our own, you understand. We’re not walking mana batteries like [Mages] or able to mix, say, Unicorn hair and Kraken teeth like [Alchemists]. We have to get our power from other things.”

“Like what?”

The [Witch] paused for a moment.

“Emotions, for one. That’s what the shadows were about. I was gathering all the regrets I had. Some of the ill will, the pain from people who lost their families.”

“Oh. But why was it so—”

“Sinister? It wasn’t so bad. It just built up there. If I’d let it all out, it could have been nasty. But good will, bad—it’s all power. I burnt it up, don’t worry.”

“With your hair? And blood?”

Wiskeria shrugged, smiling a bit. She touched her healed hand and made a face.

“Everything requires a sacrifice. And because of what I offered, you helping me, I think this will be a good stew. It’ll heal wounds, energize people—make them feel better about what happened.”

“All that in this?”

Durene stared at the cauldron. She’d had a mouthful, and she didn’t feel different. Okay, she felt good and like she could plough a field with one hand—but stamina potions did the same. Only this felt better than the burst of frantic energy a stamina potion gave her. Wiskeria nodded when Durene said that.

“It’s magic, Durene. A magic soup. It’ll do a lot of things. It’s what I’m good at. Soups, brewing. That’s my specialty as a [Witch]—I’m not great, but I can do a bit. Poison doesn’t require as much. That’s just vapors and steam. But this is magic. Not as good as potions, I guess. Well, better than most you could buy as a Silver-rank adventurer. Maybe even Gold-rank, these days. Not the best, even so. But it’ll do.”

Again, her clarifications only demanded more questions. Durene did a hop—then leapt, almost laughing with delight at the energy coursing through her.

“You’re sure? It feels better than any stamina potion, Wiskeria! All that runs out—this isn’t going away!”

Wiskeria looked embarrassed.

“Well, I put a bit of the old incantations into it as well. You heard me chanting? It’s largely free-form, but the blood sacrifice—I guess that puts it above your average [Witch]’s brew, despite my level. Again, it’s not really special. It’s all I can do.”

“What’s really special, then?”

All this false modesty! Or not false, because Wiskeria wistfully stared at the glowing liquid.

“Oh, really special stuff? Something invigorating to mend and made of mercy and regrets? My mother could make a stew that’d mend shattered bone and have the oldest enemies hop into bed with each other. A great witch could set a stew between two armies and forge a peace.”

Now that was the stuff of legends, and Durene laughed heartily at the notion as she did laps around the pot, trying to burn up the amazing energy in her.

“Yeah, but that’s just stories! Like the Lightning Thief and such!”

“Every story’s based on something, even if it’s just imagination, Durene. And, in these two cases—truth only seems impossible until you witness it. Believe me. This isn’t much.”

The way Wiskeria spoke suddenly sounded weary and old. Durene stopped running and saw Wiskeria wistfully looking at the pot. She was still satisfied, but she was wistful. Durene blinked, then kept her voice light.

“It tastes better than any potion. I’d use this every day if I could.”

Wiskeria broke out of her introspection and nodded with a smile.

“It’s certainly good enough. Hey! Not you, you greedyguts.”

She pushed Bismarck’s head out of the way as the Mossbear went for the pot for the twelfth time. He and Frostwing had come out of hiding once the ceremony—ritual—Durene wasn’t sure what to call it—was done. And now he really wanted what was in the pot. Wiskeria ticked off points on her long fingers with a sigh.

“It is good, but it won’t last, you can’t transport it so easily, and potions are faster. Easier to make too, I guess. It’s too bad; there was a time when [Witches] were very valuable. Because [Alchemists] weren’t so good at what they did. We could earn a living this way. Now it’s only good for rare occasions.”

“That’s too bad.”

Durene mumbled. She felt humbled, at peace after seeing the ritual, despite the blood Wiskeria had shed. It felt a bit like forgiveness, if you could make that into a spell. Wiskeria nodded. She looked relaxed too.

“You think? You should hear the old [Witches] I’ve met complain about it. They’re all too young to remember, but they know all the stories, and they moan about the good old days—Mother just complains about Dragons. Do you think you can carry it?”

“I do. Just watch the front so it doesn’t spill out?”

Durene lifted the cauldron onto the handcart with a grunt. To her relief, the cart was well-built, but the cauldron was heavy. She and Wiskeria watched the cart anxiously, but it felt sturdy, so after a moment, Wiskeria nodded, and Durene proceeded carefully.

“I think I want to meet more [Witches] after this. Well, not that Mavika one. The crows were scary.”

“She’s not so bad. But she is one of the senior [Witches] of Izril. There’s no formal ranking, but she is one of the most important.”

“Really? And she seems—most of Izril has good [Witches], right? Like you?”

Wiskeria smiled slightly and shook her head as they walked. The sky was beautiful and dry. Durene was smiling, despite managing the wagon. A black bird flew overhead, and even it sounded welcoming.

“It’s full of [Witches], Durene. Good, bad, we band together. We’re most numerous in Izril and Terandria. Few, if any, live in Chandrar or Baleros.”

“Why? People don’t like [Witches]?”

“No…I just think few want to live in the desert or fight off snakes. And not all species take to [Witches]. I hear Humans make up most [Witch] covens. It’s a very specific class. We have a history.”

“Huh. So what’s a coven do anyways? Why haven’t I heard of them?”

Wiskeria smiled.

“We’re spread out. Covens can be very large—Mavika’s all the [Witches] in about, oh, three hundred miles. They’re actually a lot more pleasant than she is. The Marshlands Coven.”

“Marshlands? But there’s only a small one up north. Are there more far from here?”

“No. I think there was a lot more marsh in the past, though. The coven’s old, Durene. Members come in and out, but they’ve been here on Izril since Humans first came. Before that, maybe. [Witches] are—”

The two broke off from their chat as they entered Riverfarm. Durene saw a crowd of people walking down the street, many heading to—she looked up.

“Oh! Perfect! It’s lunch!”

Wiskeria looked up. It had taken all morning to make the cauldron of enchanted soup! She smiled, and Durene called out. The half-Troll girl’s voice echoed down the street, attracting attention.

“Hey! Everyone! Come over here! Wiskeria brewed a magic soup for you to try! Come on! It’s fantastic!”

Heads turned. Durene saw to her pleasure that it was mostly villagers, Riverfarm folk about here. She waved at them and spotted a girl skipping towards them. Chimmy. The girl gathered with Ram, Miss Yesel, and some of the other villagers, including an entire host of [Wood Cutters]. They stared at the cauldron as Durene carefully placed it on the ground. They were just outside one of the cookhouses, but even the [Cook] came outside when they smelled the pot.

It smelled marvelous. And magical; you couldn’t deny that magic was a scent when you inhaled the magical potato soup. It felt like there was more than just the ingredients inside, and as Durene proudly shouted, more and more people stopped.

“This is a magical soup, General—I mean, Miss Wiskeria?”

Ram looked into the cauldron, half-warily, but licking his lips. Wiskeria nodded. She addressed the curious crowd.

“It’s a brew. More like a soup than actual potions. It’ll accelerate healing in the body. Scratches, small cuts—they’ll disappear overnight or in hours of drinking. Even bigger injuries. Plus, there’s some stamina ingredients too. You can eat it with breakfast, and it’ll work all day. But this will go bad in two days, three at most.”

“What’s it for?”

Miss Yesel pushed Chimmy back as the girl tried to peer inside the pot. She looked interested too, but wary. Wiskeria was a [Witch]. Durene hurried out with some bowls and spoons as Wiskeria tugged on her hat’s brim.

“Goodwill, Miss Yesel. Call it goodwill and an apology. A bit of magic to help everyone today. That’s all.”

“I see.”

Miss Yesel looked dubious, but Chimmy, her eyes shining, reached for a bowl.

“It smells even better than your soup, Ma! Let me try?”

“Hush!”

Yesel looked scandalized, but that provoked a laugh from the crowd. More people drew over as Durene took the bowls and handed them around. Wiskeria smiled as she explained more to Ram and the others.

“It’s nothing much. But it is tiring to make. I can’t mass-produce anything like an [Alchemist] can.”

“And it’s safe? It’s just helpful?”

Ram hesitated as he took a bowl. Durene nodded.

“It’s good! I had some, don’t worry, Mister Ram! Your only complaint will be there’s not enough after you try it! Here, who wants to be first? Anyone want some?”

“Me, me!”

Chimmy waved her arm excitedly. Yesel stopped her, looking apologetic.

“Maybe if someone else tries it first?”

“Of course. I can have some, or Durene. But if anyone else wants to try…”

Wiskeria looked around. The street was crowded, but no one was moving. A crow alighted on the building opposite; a dog wandered forwards, sniffing. But no Humans. Durene impatiently eyed the crowd for volunteers and nudged Ram repeatedly. Once one person tried it—but the villagers hesitated. Then a quavering voice spoke up.

“I’ll—uh—I’ll have some, if you wouldn’t mind. That smells like a wonderful soup. And clearly magical. Not magic I know, though.”

Durene saw Nesor, the timid [Mage], appear in the crowd. He walked forwards and looked awkwardly at Wiskeria. He hesitated. Wiskeria bit her lip.

“Nesor. I haven’t seen you in a while.”

“I, uh—avoided you. Wiskeria. I’m sorry about—you know, it was me who was sending [Messages], so I’m sorry…”

The [Mage]’s stutter hadn’t improved. He hesitated and looked around, then shrank a bit as he lowered his head.

“I’m sorry about that.”

A moment of silence followed his words. Wiskeria nodded tiredly.

“I am too.”

The two looked at each other until Ram cleared his throat.

“It wasn’t your fault, Miss Wiskeria. Nor His Majesty’s. It was them Goblins. And whoever knocked out poor Nesor.”

Everyone nodded at that to Durene’s relief. Nesor nodded too. He couldn’t meet anyone’s eyes. Instead, he eyed the magical soup with a [Mage]’s interest.

“I’d gladly try the first bowl, Miss Wiskeria. I’ve always heard [Witches] make powerful concoctions, but I haven’t ever tried…would you allow me the honor?”

“Of course.”

Wiskeria smiled, and Durene offered her a ladle. Wiskeria poured the soup into a bowl, and Nesor took it. He sniffed the soup and smiled timidly. Then he took a spoon and, without hesitation, took a bite.

His face changed at once. It grew peaceful, content, and his eyes brightened. No one needed to know what the soup tasted like, but the crowd waited anyways as Nesor finished the bowl, eating quickly and hungrily. He looked up, realized everyone was staring, and blushed. But then he pointed at the cauldron.

“This is the finest soup I’ve ever had. And—powerful! I feel reinvigorated, as good as any [Alchemist]’s concoction. I urge you all to try it! Please!”

He waved a hand, and the crowd moved forwards. Durene, smiling and laughing, reached for the ladle, and Wiskeria’s smile was no less wide than Nesor’s. Chimmy hopped into place, bouncing for a bowl. Durene reached for the ladle, and the shout behind her nearly deafened her.

“You bitch!”

Rehanna ran forwards. The woman hiked up her dress, and before anyone could stop her, as Durene and Wiskeria were turning, she kicked at the cauldron. With a cry, Durene turned, but it was too late. The iron pot didn’t overbalance with Rehanna’s enraged kick—so she heaved against the metal until it went over. The heavy pot tipped, and gravity did the rest.

The liquid in the cauldron poured onto the street, mixing with the wet earth. The pleasant aroma in the air faded and turned sour. Wiskeria leapt back as the magical soup stained her feet. And the pleasant liquid was suddenly brown, mixed with the soil unpleasantly. Rehanna, panting, eyes alight with hatred, pointed in triumph at it.

“See? It was a trick! It wasn’t good at all! Poison, it looks like!”

“Rehanna!”

Mister Ram roared in fury. He threw his bowl down as the convivial, pleasant atmosphere turned just as hostile. Wiskeria was in shock, but the [Rancher] advanced on Rehanna furiously.

“You just kicked over enough food to feed everyone here! And the best smelling soup I’ve ever had! How dare you! Prost will put you in the pillory! You should be thrown out of Riverfarm on your ear for that! After Miss Wiskeria—”

“Don’t you fall for her lies! She’s a [Witch]! She was trying to buy you all with her fake magic! You think she can make you a stew and beg your forgiveness? Did you forget what she did?”

Rehanna bellowed back, her face red with fury. There were tears in her eyes. Ram recoiled, and Rehanna pointed at the foul-smelling liquid now staining the ground.

“You see that? Can’t you smell it? I knew it was a trick! The same trick that made everyone think she was a [General]! It’s just black magic!”

“It wasn’t bad magic.”

Nesor mumbled.

“How would you know, you half-rate [Mage]?”

Rehanna spun on him, and he flinched. But he raised his voice, gritting his teeth.

“I know just as certainly as I knew any magic from Wistram. Miss Rehanna. That was no poor spell. It was a [Witch]’s brew, not alchemical, but there was good magic there. I’m afraid you ruined it.”

He pointed at Rehanna. The woman’s face turned even deeper crimson, and there was a rumble from the villagers. She pointed at Wiskeria, and her voice was a screech of fury.

“Say what you will, but I know who killed my husband! It was her! Her and your mad [Emperor]! And if you had half the sense I do—that Lancrel’s people do, come to it—you’d see the truth.”

“You’re drunk, Rehanna. And you’ve been listening to those idiots from Lancrel’s Council.”

Miss Yesel looked disgusted. Durene realized not all of Rehanna’s flush was from anger. The half-Troll girl clenched her fists. How dare she?

And yet, more than one person was eying Wiskeria’s spoiled soup uneasily. The smell was foul. They looked at Wiskeria. She was standing, feet still in the wet soup, head bowed. The rest of the crowd rumbled ominously. Rehanna had insulted Laken too. But the woman just looked around with a sneer.

“You think I’m wrong? She’s a [Witch]! You know what they do! How would you ever trust a bloody [Witch]? A witch!”

No one replied. Disgusted, Ram turned and spat.

“Someone help me. We’re hauling you to Prost. He can deal with you—he’s taking care of that [Thief] right now. Or Lady Rie. Where is she?”

He reached for Rehanna. She tore herself away, stumbling back. She retreated as Ram and a few other men and women reached for her.

“Don’t touch me! I want Councilwoman Beatica! She’s smart enough to see through that bitch’s lies. And she knows what’s right about everything else! Don’t touch me! Riverfarm’s going to have proper laws. Proper laws and—”

She was backing away towards the cookhouse door. Rehanna reached for it, probably intending to barricade herself inside. Ram, growling, reached for her, but the woman seized the doorknob—and shrieked.

The sound split the air. It wasn’t like her scream of fury earlier. It wasn’t a Human sound, but animalistic. Pain. Pure pain. Rehanna’s shriek froze Ram and the others in their tracks. Durene saw the woman flail back from the door, clutching at her right hand, the one that had touched the knob. And then she held it up.

Red, burnt flesh and blood trickling down her hand. Scorched skin, part of her hand torn away—

The crowd stared in horror. Rehanna opened her mouth to say something, but another shriek tore its way out. She could only wave her hand and scream, looking around, begging them to do something. But everyone was frozen. Durene’s mind was locked up. What had just—

“I didn’t do it! I didn’t touch her!”

Ram was shaken, white-faced. He stared at Rehanna’s hand. Then someone behind him uttered a strangled oath.

“Ram! The door—”

The man looked and froze. Durene saw a bright light. She stared at the doorknob. It was ordinary brass. But something was wrong. The door knob was burning white with heat! Somehow, it had grown hot as metal in forge’s fire. And it had burned Rehanna’s hand when she’d put it on the doorknob.

Some of it was still there. Parts of her palm sizzled and cooked on the doorknob. Durene smelled the scent of cooked meat, but her stomach roiled as she saw Rehanna holding her mutilated hand. Someone behind her gagged—it was Miss Yesel.

“What on earth—how did this happen?”

Ram stared at Rehanna, and then he turned.

“Healing potion. We need a—”

Half the people felt at their belts. The rest stared in horror. But it was Nesor, face white, who ran for one. As Rehanna collapsed to her knees, unable to speak for agony, in the silence, heads turned.

“Who did this? Why?”

Ram whispered. Then he turned. He looked. He couldn’t help it. Neither could Durene. She stared at Wiskeria. The [Witch] was frozen in the street. She looked around, started.

“It wasn’t me. I didn’t—”

The shock on her face was apparent to everyone. But still, the eyes searched the street, then went back to her. If not her, who? Rehanna made another sound, a groaning, weeping scream. Miss Yesel clutched at Chimmy, who was white with fear.

“Miss Wiskeria?”

“I didn’t do it. That was not my spell.”

“Was it a spell?”

Ram looked at Wiskeria and then past her at Nesor, who’d rushed out of a building with three vials in his hand. Wiskeria hesitated.

“I—the magic—”

“It was not Wiskeria who cast that spell.”

Durene breathed in and out, trying to clear the smell from the door. The knob was turning red, cooling. But the damage was still done. Ram looked around, clearly disconcerted.

“If not Wiskeria, then who? Who—”

“Me.”

The voice came from above and behind. Durene spun. Ram, Yesel, Chimmy, Wiskeria, everyone, looked up. There they saw her.

A woman perched on the roof of the house opposite the cookhouse. At least, she looked vaguely like a woman. Her arms were thin, her posture hunched. She was dressed in grey rags, and she had a dark grey hat. Pointed and bespectacled with feathers. But the woman’s frame looked—wrong. Too long. And as she hunched there, in a crouch, Durene saw she was not alone.

A flock of crows were sitting next to the woman, as silent as could be. Durene hadn’t even noticed them arrive. Now they turned their heads, their beady eyes staring down at the crowd. More than one person shuddered. Not just for the crows. But for the woman. She looked like the crows. Her eyes, when they stared down, were piercing. And the irises were nearly black.

“I cast that spell, Master Ram. If you seek a [Witch] to blame, here I am. But such is consequence for rudeness done. That woman’s pain was justly won.”

“What—who are—”

Ram stuttered as he pointed up at the woman. Wiskeria had gone white. She looked up, and the woman—no, the [Witch] stood up. The villagers backed away as the crows took flight, circling the air, cawing. And the woman’s voice was loud as Rehanna screamed on the ground.

“Remember this well, people of Riverfarm: Those who scorn a [Witch]’s gift must pay the toll. Discourtesy shall be matched with discourtesy, and ill for ill. In equal measure do we reap kindness or misery each. Such is humanity’s will.”

The words came out like a chant, like a spell. The woman who was as much bird as person leapt down, and the murder of crows flew low overhead, cawing, and the people ducked or shouted. They backed away. But Wiskeria held still. She stared at the woman with the hat. The [Witch]. And she said only two words as her hand slowly reached up to tip her hat.

“Witch Mavika.”

The [Witch] bowed slightly as she touched her own black hat. A smile crossed her lips. Yellow teeth—Durene shuddered. Mavika looked at Wiskeria. And to her she said only this:

“I am the first.”

The rest followed soon after.





6.37 E


Day 56 – Beniar



This was how they came. A woman and a girl rode down towards the village in the distance. The woman was tall, thin, and her hat and dress were black. Properly so. Not midnight black or as black as sin, just black. She rode a horse. It wasn’t a racer or a brilliant stallion. It was, in fact, a mare and perfect for travel. Her voice was slightly snappish, but efficiently so.

“Keep up, Nanette. And sit properly; you’re riding the horse, not letting it bear you to market. Don’t make a poor impression. First ones are the only ones you get.”

“Yes, Miss Califor.”

The meek response didn’t appease the woman. She glanced to one side and eyed her companion.

“Remember your manners. It goes without saying that this is important business, or else we would not be here. Some of the others will expect proper courtesy.”

“I know, Miss Califor. I’ll do my best not to embarrass you.”

The woman pursed her lips.

“Embarrassment lasts as long as I care to remember it, Nanette. That isn’t what you should be concerned about. Some of the others are older. Which means proper courtesy is required. Eloise would consider it mannerly. And the others would be offended without.”

“L-like who?”

The chatter in the young voice made the woman named Califor pause. The fear wasn’t born of nothing, nor was the seriousness with which she gave the matter thought. Her mare plodded forwards as the woman thought, then nodded to herself and replied sharply.

“Mavika above all others. The rest wouldn’t stand on it, but Mavika would. Mavika and…we shall see who else attends. Be polite to Witch Mavika, Nanette. She is the old ways.”

The girl nodded rapidly, and her pony, snorting, decided its rider wasn’t in control. It stopped to nibble at a weed growing by the road. Miss Califor, noticing the pause, glared at the pony. The pony looked up, noticed the glare, and quickly trotted forwards so the two were side-by-side again. The girl blushed and gripped the reins more tightly; Miss Califor just sighed again.

“Don’t be worried, Nanette. You are accompanying me. Just remember your manners.”

She waited for the nod from the girl at her side. The slight smile the older woman gave reassured the girl. If she minded her manners, all would be well. That was all Nanette had to do; and all Miss Califor had to do was be…Miss Califor.

So the two rode. The landscape was lush, fed on rainwater, and full of growth. Wild grass and wheat escaped from farms bordered by forestland not yet cleared by Humans. The woman and girl watched as they rode, seeing how far some of the tree lines stretched. You could still find places like this out here. Riverfarm was rural, but there were parts of the continent yet desolate, where Humans—or people of any kind—had yet to leave any memory of their passing.

The woman’s back was straight, her posture correct. The girl tried to emulate her, but she was young. The girl also had a hat, but it was dark blue, fresh while the woman’s was worn. And she was timid where the woman was—not so much bold, but decisive. She decided what was done, and that was that.

It was thus something of a surprise when the [Bandits] poured out of a forest not fifteen miles from Riverfarm and surrounded the two. They were a rough lot, desperados as hungry as they were greedy. Their leader had an axe and a large horse, and he pointed it at the two, bellowing as they stopped at the unexpected hitch near the end of their journey.

“Don’t move! You move and you’re dead! Get out your coin and jewelry! Now!”

The woman looked affronted; the girl squeaked in horror and scrabbled for a wand at her side. She’d just managed to raise it when the woman slapped her arm down.

“Don’t point your wand if you don’t intend to use it, Nanette.”

“Smart.”

The [Bandit Leader] growled. He’d tensed with the others when the wand came out, never mind that it was held by a girl. He held out one hand.

“Let’s make this quick, alright? Hand over your money pouches and don’t delay! And off the horses or you’ll be two corpses.”

He might have actually been more civilized compared to the [Bandits] whom Ryoka had seen outright killing travellers on the road. Then again, the close proximity to Riverfarm and the now-infamous Darksky Riders had the [Bandits] sweating. But there was money to be made if you were quick! They spread out around the woman and girl.

The older woman with the black hat pursed her lips, looking more annoyed than anything. She glanced around at the group of armed men and women, then up for a second, and her frown intensified. The others watched her warily but confidently; she might be a [Mage], but they had the drop on her, and if she so much as twitched her hands or uttered the beginning of a spell, they’d cut her to pieces. They’d killed [Mages] before.

Slowly, Miss Califor got off her horse and shoved past a rough man with a sword. He blinked, and the [Bandit Leader] looked down at her as she stood on his left. The woman turned her head and called at her ward.

“Don’t get off that horse, Nanette. This doesn’t require any great spell. Just consideration. Now, you. Just what do you think you’re doing? I advise you to leave us be.”

So saying, she pointed a finger up at the [Bandit Leader]. He blinked at the tone in the woman’s voice.

“What? Give us the money, old woman, or die. One second. Otherwise I swing.”

The woman folded her arms and adjusted her hat, not impressed. One of the [Bandits], looking to his right at her, was impressed. She wasn’t flinching, and the axe was ready to fall. He shuffled left, and the woman did likewise.

“Don’t move!”

The [Bandit Leader] looked left. The group tensed—was this woman about to fight? You never knew—but the woman just shook her head.

“I don’t intend to fight, and I don’t intend to be robbed. I am offering you a choice. You have had many choices in your life that carried you here. Tell me. Did they make you happy? This one is clearly marked. Choose wisely.”

One could say much of Witch Califor. Her worn riding cloak sometimes swirled like a moving shadow, and the walking staff she carried might leave behind patches of vibrant grass. Her eyes, when wrathful, could flash like a bolt of lightning no matter how clear the skies.

But it was her voice that could not be escaped. She did not sound like an old grandmother, nor a stern lecturer. When she spoke, the [Bandits] stopped a second. Califor’s voice was…urgent. Almost worried without being explicitly so.

Not for her. For them. She spoke as if watching someone about to make a terrible mistake, and even the [Bandit Leader] hesitated. As if to reassure himself, he looked the woman up and down. Tall, gaunt, and not visibly dangerous. So he raised his axe and tried to growl as if to drown out her warning.

“You want to die? Money and horse. The girl too. Or I’ll cut you down and take it myself. Think I won’t?”

Miss Califor sighed. She gazed up at the [Bandit Leader] and shook her head. The note of concern vanished, and her voice became quiet.

“I think you will. More’s the pity. They money and the girl? Swing hard, man. Or else—”

The axe buried itself in her skull. She jerked, and the [Bandit Leader] roared as he yanked the bloody axe blade away. It came up, dripping with blood and brains. Nanette screamed.

“Miss Calif—”

The [Bandit Leader] bellowed at the [Bandits] on his right.

“Fucking woman! Get the girl—”

Then he paused. And the [Bandits] stared in horror. Because it wasn’t an old woman’s body lying on the ground, her head and hat cleaved in two. It was one of their own. The [Bandit] the woman had bumped into, who’d been on the [Bandit Leader]’s left—

Silently, the big man with the axe stared at the corpse. A woman with a bow lowered it, looking in horror at her leader.

“Jek! You killed Tobil!”

“I didn’t mean—I was aiming at the woman!”

“She was on your right! You were looking right at her! But you swung at Tobil!”

“No! I—”

The [Bandit Leader] stared around at his group. Then his head snapped up. The woman with the black hat stared at him from horseback. She addressed the pale-faced girl next to her.

“You see, Nanette? A small spell works better than obvious magic. What we see and show is more important. You are not a [Mage]. Remember that.”

“Yes, Miss Califor.”

The girl replied a touch breathlessly. Jek, the [Bandit Leader], stared at them as the woman nodded. She lifted her travelling cloak and whirled it across the air, blocking the two from sight. Her voice snapped.

“Good. Now—ride.”

The two on horseback wavered and then vanished. Jek and the [Bandits] spun. They saw two distant figures on horseback racing towards Riverfarm and only now heard the hoofbeats. Jek pointed, trembling with fury.

“Get them!”

The [Bandits] stormed after the pair, those without horses running to catch up. Ahead of them, Miss Califor considered their lead and the approaching village with narrowed eyes. Her apprentice, Nanette, clutched her horse’s reins, white-faced.

“Miss Califor, they’re catching up!”

“Stay calm, Nanette.”

Califor rode low to her horse, hair whipping behind her. She was gazing ahead, then she glanced back, eying the first [Bandits] catching up to them. The arrows that landed close enough for Nanette’s horse to flinch were meant for the two [Witches].

—But no matter how hard the [Archers] tried, they couldn’t seem to land a shot. However, the other riders were closing in, and Nanette’s voice rose in terror.

“Miss Califor!”

The [Bandit Leader], Jek, had a Skill. He was riding twice as fast at the two [Witches]. And his axe was dripping blood. Miss Califor turned in her saddle. She eyed Jek balefully and looked ahead. And up. As he drew level with her, the man raised his axe. Califor said only this:

“I warned you.”

Jek hesitated. And that was enough. He glanced to the side and spotted the armored figure riding towards him too late. He turned and swung. To be fair, he hit the armored rider. But his steel axe bounced off the armor. And the [Cataphract] swung his sword and cut across Jek’s face.

The [Bandits] halted. They saw Beniar ride past Jek and watched the man fall. Then they heard the shouts. The Darksky Riders charged, riding down on the [Bandits] with roars of fury. The [Bandits] scattered, screaming.

“The Darksky Riders!”

“That’s right! You bastards thought you could hide this close to Riverfarm!?”

Beniar roared as he galloped after another [Bandit], sword drawn. Nanette, shaking, let her horse slow, and Miss Califor, lips pursed, regarded the [Bandits] and [Riders].

She sheltered the shaking girl, her apprentice, with her cloak, head swiveling. Only when it was clear the [Bandits] were routed did she lower her arm.

“Remember, Nanette. Keep your head even in the worst moments. If you panic, you cannot help yourself.”

“Y-yes, Miss Califor.”

The girl was pale beneath her hat. She focused on the woman, the [Witch]. Califor shook her head briskly.

“Breathe in and out, Nanette. Deep breaths. You survived your first [Bandits] well. Remember, in moments like this, you may trust me, but you must rely on yourself.”

The girl was still shaking. She was round-cheeked and young, twelve, but at Califor’s words, she tried to collect herself. Fear made words spill out.

“I knew you could do it, Miss Califor! B-but what if I’d been too slow? Or if they’d seen through your illusion? Or if the adventurers hadn’t caught up—or if—”

“Breathe, Nanette.”

The [Witch] sighed. She adjusted her hat and looked up sternly.

“We were never in any danger. Even if we had been, calmness allows us to choose the best course of action. I knew Riverfarm had adventurers, and I would not have left you behind.”

“But if they were too slow—”

“We would have been fine. Tell me, what is my eighth rule, Nanette?”

The girl gulped. She hesitated and then, as her lips moved and her brow scrunched up, she recalled it.

“Rule eight. A smart woman looks up now and then—”

She looked up at last. Then, overhead, she saw her. Alevica, her broom high above, swooped down. Nanette nearly fell out of her saddle. Alevica tipped her hat to Califor, and the older [Witch] touched her brim.

“Wotcha, Nanette! And Califor! There’s [Bandits] all about today!”

The young woman grinned at the suddenly star-struck Nanette. Califor just sighed.

“Evidently. Thank you for your assistance, Witch Alevica, although I would have preferred a more direct approach.”

“You were fine. And that patrol was nearby. I didn’t want to waste more crossbow bolts or potions. Anyways, we’re all fine. Am I late?”

Califor considered the question as Alevica hopped onto the ground, and the broom returned to the laws of gravity. Alevica tossed it over her shoulder. She looked at Nanette, who was still staring, wide-eyed.

“Didn’t see me, Nanette? How long’s it been? Two years? Three?”

“Three. Nanette, your manners.”

The girl started, and her still-round cheeks went red again.

“Oh! I—I greet you, Witch Alevica! I tip my hat—”

She fumbled, and Alevica laughed. The young woman strode next to Califor’s horse and Nanette’s mare and waved a lazy hand.

“You don’t have to do that with me, Nanette. I don’t stand on the old ways. Do that to Mavika. Sorry about the scare!”

Califor’s silence was pointed, and Alevica shuffled her feet a bit.

“Er…I could have shot a few [Bandits]. You won’t tell Oliyaya about that, will you? I just wanted to see you take those bandits apart, Witch Califor! How’d you swerve all those arrows?”

Then Nanette was staring wide-eyed at Califor, who gave Alevica a peeved look. She handed something to Alevica, who stared at…a handful of twigs.

“Toss them left and right with a bit of sympathy attached. It is something Oliyaya knows quite well. Even if I had the situation in hand, Nanette’s fright was unnecessary, Witch Alevica. Where is your mentor? I did not expect to see you without her.”

The rebuke made Alevica stop and flush. The younger woman pursed her lips, but uncharacteristically, especially from what Nanette knew and had heard of her, she did stop and tip her hat grudgingly to Califor and then Nanette.

“I tip my hat to you and I apologize, Miss Califor. And to you, Nanette. No harm done, though, eh?”

She looked hopeful—and nervous—until Miss Califor sighed and inclined her head and tipped her hat gently.

“I tip my hat to you, Alevica. And I suppose not. Oliyaya?”

“Oh—she can’t make it. That’s why she sent me. She’s busy cleaning up messes in her domain. You know, witches getting attacked?”

Califor’s brows drew together.

“So she sent you. I attended this meeting in person.”

“Hey! She thought I’d be more impressive and less—you know. Warty? Plus, I’m a City Runner these days. See?”

Alevica showed the two her Runner’s Seal, and Califor considered all of this and gave Alevica a tight nod.

“We shall see who else attends. I have hopes Agratha can make it. Shall we?”

Then the two were walking, and Alevica, wincing slightly, flew alongside the other two, chatting as Nanette listened in, wonderingly staring at Alevica’s broom. She hoped she’d be allowed a ride this time.

“Er, Agratha might not make it, Witch Califor. There was a dead [Witch]—and she lost her schoolhouse.”

“Dead gods. Why?”

“Oh, you know, idiots. The poor [Witch] was being hunted. Same cause. Um—uh—where have you two been? Ah! Witch Oliyaya sends her regards, and the Glokhen Coven has some gifts…”

Califor answered calmly as they rode ahead. When she accepted Oliyaya’s letter and a wrapped parcel, Alevica exhaled and flew back a step, clearly relieved. Then she twisted and, far more casually, gave Nanette a smile and wink.

Nanette, who of course knew Alevica by name if not face, and reputation, hurriedly tipped her hat and bowed in the saddle. Alevica tipped hers with a grin that made the girl blush, and Califor clicked her tongue. Her mare walked forwards.

In the distance, Beniar turned, and his Darksky Riders began to ride back. He, of course, had a lot of questions, but the [Witches] were already nearing Riverfarm.

“Dismount. These things should be done properly.”

At Califor’s words, the two [Witches] dismounted, and the animals walked alongside the three without the need for reins. Califor glanced at Alevica.

“How was your journey, Witch Alevica? The sixteen [Bandits] you killed—was it poverty or the summer’s heat that drove them to their terrible end? Next time, you would do well to at least burn the bodies.”

Alevica blinked; she hadn’t brought up the [Bandits]. She stuttered.

“Er—I don’t know why they were here. And I was in a hurry to make it, so… I…”

They headed into Riverfarm down the main street. Beniar, chasing after them, drew up when he realized they had no intention of waiting for him. He returned to the Darksky Riders, who were checking the [Bandits]. One of the [Riders] looked up.

“What’s with the flying woman, Beniar? The two travellers safe?”

The young man grunted sourly.

“I think so. I’ll head back once we’re sure we got all the [Bandits]. Do a sweep nearby; I’ll take four that way. Then I’ll ask about those three. Some people have no manners.”

He scratched at his chin as he turned his horse. Then again…what was the oldest woman’s name? Califor? She’d been very composed despite nearly getting killed by [Bandits]. Califor…

Why did that name ring a bell?





Day 56 – Prost



Mister Prost was not a happy man. He was a [Steward], a class that was, by and large, not generally happy. He accepted that. And Prost had found he was often content if not happy. But right now he was neither content nor happy. He stood in the middle of a square in front of a pair of pillories. There was a man in said pillory.

Master Elmmet. The man didn’t look as pompous as he normally did, strutting about and sneering at Riverfarm’s people. But, incredibly, he still managed to look down on Prost with both hands and head sticking out of the pillory and his ass facing the world. And quite a lot of world was watching.

“This is a sham, Mister Prost. I’m innocent. Framed! I may have been caught by that adventurer, Beniar, but only as I was attempting to catch the [Thief] myself! This is an indignity!”

Elmmet shouted at the crowd of people who’d gathered around the pillories to listen to the trial. At his words, there was a chorus of boos and shouts of outrage, but the people of Lancrel shouted at the villagers and non-Lancrel folk. Prost stared down at Elmmet and tried to contain his temper. The man in the pillory had the gall to return his look with an outraged one of his own.

“I don’t have time for lies, Master Elmmet. I’m only asking you one question. With all to see. Are you the [Thief] who’s been stealing from Riverfarm all this time?”

“I’d love to give you a straight answer, but I’m afraid to be denounced by that false truth stone you’re holding.”

The man sneered back, and with one hand, he pointed at the white quartz in Prost’s hand. The [Steward] grimaced as the stone flickered from red to blue too rapidly for anyone to see. It was a truth stone, but a cheap one. And it had two settings: red for false, blue for truth. The problem was getting Master Elmmet to speak something that wasn’t a half-lie. If he didn’t say anything that could be a ‘yes or no answer’, the truth stone wouldn’t work entirely properly, and both he and Prost knew it.

“This is a genuine truth stone, Mister Elmmet. Anyone who wants can test it out, and we have.”

“Such things can be faked! People of Lancrel, listen to me! I was framed! Do I look like a young man or the woman that people were calling a [Thief] in the street? I was set up as I pursued that very [Thief], and Mister Prost—along with his hired adventurers—decided to frame me!”

Elmmet protested, wide-eyed and innocent, to the crowd. Even Prost had to admit he didn’t look like either description. Elmmet had white hair, and he was hardly spry. But Prost knew Beniar was telling the truth.

“Any [Thief] can gain a Skill which allows him to change his face. Apparently, there’s one called [Master of Faces]. Do you have that Skill?”

The stone flickered from red to mostly blue as Prost held it closer to Elmmet. The man was sweating, for all his bravado. He licked his lips and replied hoarsely.

“If I were to answer, I believe the stone would lie.”

Red, then a flicker of blue. The stone couldn’t process the statement. Elmmet sighed, and Prost ground his teeth. He raised his voice, speaking to the crowd.

“You see your man Elmmet. He refuses to answer one question! Is he the [Thief]? He could free himself from the pillory this moment if he answered. If he continues to refuse, I will find him guilty for the dozens of thefts that have plagued Riverfarm. All of them.”

Lancrel’s folk stared back uncertainly. Many looked at Elmmet with distrust, and Prost was relieved to see some were clear thinkers. But too many listened to the [Thief] as he hoarsely shouted.

“Don’t believe this man! This is a conspiracy! He can control the truth stone! I demand a proper trial! An impartial judge!”

“I am the [Steward] of Riverfarm. This is your one trial, Elmmet!”

Prost lost his temper and bellowed at the man. The [Thief] flinched, but he still had that desperate confidence in his eyes. As if he thought he was really going to get out of this. Prost had already decided he was not. No matter what anyone said—if Prost couldn’t get the man to admit his crimes, it didn’t matter. He was a [Thief], and Prost would make sure he was jailed. Laken could deal with him. Prost was sure driving out Elmmet would just see him reappear as the [Thief] and cause more trouble, and as for anything else—

“Mister Prost, I have to object on my Councilman’s behalf. Can we be sure that this truth stone is really as valid as you claim? Is there no possibility that Elmmet was wrongly accused?”

A polite voice called out behind Prost. The former-[Farmer] gritted his teeth as he turned. If he could, he would have thrown the smiling woman addressing him into the pillory next to Elmmet.

“Councilwoman Beatica. This truth stone is accurate. Or are you claiming that this is all a conspiracy as Mister Elmmet says? I warn you, that is a lie I will not have repeated. Beniar has sworn on a truth stone his account is accurate, and his report is backed up by Durene, the Darksky Riders, and a dozen other witnesses. Are you suggesting everyone who claims to have seen Master Elmmet is lying?”

If she was, she was claiming there was no real authority that could be trusted in Riverfarm except her own. Prost held the woman’s gaze and saw Beatica hesitate. She smiled and spread her arms, turning to address the crowd of city folk behind her. Not the villagers.

“Of course not! I believe everyone present saw exactly what they claimed. But magic—Skills—they can fake a man’s face, can’t they? What if the [Thief] used his [Master of Faces] Skill to impersonate Elmmet? Mister Prost, can we be certain beyond any shadow of a doubt that this is our [Thief] and not a wrongly accused man?”

The Lancrel crowd nodded. Prost stared at Beatica’s smile and then noticed the flickering truth stone in his hand. And he realized that if he answered her, the stone might turn red.

“No one can be certain of anything, Councilwoman. Which is why your question has no answer.”

Beatica’s lips pursed for a second, and Prost sensed her disappointment in not luring him into her trap. She kept going, though. She probably didn’t even care for Elmmet, Prost suspected, but if the damn [Thief] was found guilty, it would throw her authority into question. Beatica spoke like a [Town Crier] and with the eloquence of a [Bard], gently persuading those undecided in the crowd.

“But doesn’t that mean that the same logic applies to Councilman Elmmet’s situation? If we cannot be certain of his guilt—”

“Are you mad, woman?”

A barking voice interrupted Beatica at last. Prost had been trying, but the woman’s [Uninterrupted Monologue] Skill had been silencing him. Not Mister Helm, though. The [Blacksmith] roared behind Beatica, slamming one fist into his palm.

“Don’t you dare try to spin it like that bastard’s innocent! He’s been weaseling out of an honest reply, and there’s only one answer to why that is! Why deliberate? Why bother to ask? He’s only told lies—but me and everyone else saw him stealing with our own two eyes! We saw him get nabbed, and there wasn’t any conspiracy or someone switching faces! Isn’t that good enough? If you want the truth, use that stone on me!”

He pointed at Prost’s stone, which had stayed mostly blue during Helm’s speech. The crowd murmured agreement, and Beatica’s eyes flashed. But that damn smile—

“Mister Helm, I realize you’re upset, but eyes can be tricked—”

“Shut up!”

The [Blacksmith] bellowed straight at Beatica. The [Councilwoman] froze, unprepared for that. Prost grinned. She might be a [Politician], but she wasn’t used to someone like Helm, who was used to saying what needed saying over the roar of a forge. The man strode forwards, pointing a finger.

“Stop twisting your words, woman! That man’s a [Thief], and he deserves exile, a noose, or just a few broken bones! He’s guilty, and you Lancrel lot are just protecting him because he’s your big [Councilman]! As corrupt as all of you city-dwelling—”

A roar of outrage swallowed the rest of what Helm was shouting as the crowd, most of whom were city people or townsfolk, yelled at Helm. The villagers present bellowed back, and Prost’s heart sank. He saw Beatica stumbling back, looking wounded—and noticed the sly, foxlike smile too late. Of course, she wanted this. He shouted and then used a Skill.

“Silence!”

[Crowd Control]. Prost had to push to force everyone silent, but they fell quiet. Beatica looked uncertain as she noticed Prost using the Skill; the [Steward] was breathing hard with the effort. He looked around and wished Laken were here. But he was trusting Prost, so the man straightened his back and did what he could.

“Master Elmmet. Swear on this truth stone you aren’t the [Thief]. Or I will consider you as such. If you believe the truth stone to be a lie, say it anyways, and we’ll test this stone for all to see. But swear on it!”

He thrust the stone at the man’s face. Elmmet’s eyes darted left and right as he opened his mouth. There was silence, and into it, he croaked.

“I—I—ask my wife and daughter! They’ll vouch that I’m no [Thief]! Ask them!”

Prost made a sound of disgust and lowered the stone. But Elmmet’s words provoked more shouting, and a woman and daughter were thrust forwards. The woman, Elmmet’s wife, looked as untrustworthy as he did. And the girl? Terrified as she stared at the crowd. And her father.

Prost had seen families like that before. Maybe he and the wife deserved each other, but what daughter stared at her father like that? He looked over his shoulder and saw Elmmet smiling desperately. Prost ached to bash the man’s teeth in. But one wrong move and Lancrel’s people might turn on him. Where was Rie? Then again, what could she do? Prost turned, thinking desperately. If he passed judgment now—

Councilwoman Beatica was drawing breath for another plea to her masses. Helm was about to make things worse, and Prost saw someone—a city person or villager, he wasn’t sure—draw back a fist. In that moment, he saw the future, and the future was a fight where the situation would be muddled, explode with all the wrong things, and engulf Elmmet’s actual crime with too much drama to make sentencing him easy.

It was a trap. But before it was sprung, a woman pushed her way through the crowd, and her voice boomed like a falling tree.

“What’s all this fuss about? If the man’s guilty, let’s find out the easiest way!”

Her voice cut off Beatica’s speech. It interrupted the fight. It drew every eye, including Prost’s. He stared at the woman, and he was sure he’d never seen her before. You’d remember a woman like this.

Long ago, Humans had been hardier folk. Before they’d built cities, they lived in villages, hunted, provided for themselves with tools and techniques and sinew rather than buying it with gold. The early Humans, men and women, had been strong, tough enough to face monsters on the edge of civilization.

It was from their cloth this woman had been cut, and what cloth! She was a giant of a figure, her hair full and brown, her arms as thick as Helm’s. She was tall, bold—and she had a voice that would have made her a star among opera singers in another world. But in this one, she was dressed in travelling clothes, stained but clean. And her wide, brown hat was perfect for travelling.

She also had a presence, different from Prost’s or Beatica’s. She stepped forwards, and Prost only now realized she carried an axe. Was she a new arrival? One of the [Woodcutters]?

No. The woman gestured around at the crowd, and her voice reached every ear. There was no Skill in it, just volume.

“I see a lot of bother over a simple matter! You say this man’s a [Thief]? You want to know what crime he deserves? Well, I say, call on a [Guardsman]! Or failing that, call on me! I’ve seen the bad and good sort long enough. And I’ve a Skill to put all questions to rest.”

So saying, she strode forwards. Beatica opened her mouth, but Prost beat her to it.

“This trial needs to be just. If you have a Skill, can you swear it’ll bring justice? And who are you, Miss?”

The huge woman smiled down at Prost. She adjusted her hat and the axe propped carefully on one shoulder. It was iron, huge, and nicked, not exactly a woodcutter’s axe. She grabbed Prost’s arm and raised it for all to see.

“They call me Hedag, Mister [Steward]! And I solve problems of this sort! You can rest assured; my Skill only reveals the truth of criminals.”

The stone turned blue as she held it up. Incredibly, it didn’t flicker red once, even with an unintentional lie. Miss Hedag let go of Prost; he stared at her. She had a grip like Helm’s!

“What say you, Steward? Shall I use it? We’ll see this man’s crimes, right enough. If he’s innocent, he’s little to fear. Then again, I’ve yet to meet an innocent man!”

She pointed down at Elmmet, who’d broken into a colder sweat than before. The crowd murmured. Hedag’s words had persuaded them. Beatica broke in nervously.

“Hold on, Steward Prost. You’re not seriously considering letting an outsider—”

“Shut up!”

Helm shouted in Beatica’s ear, silencing and deafening her. He stared past her at Hedag. And his eyes narrowed.

“Hedag. I’ve heard the name.”

So had Prost, but he couldn’t recall it for some reason. It was an old name, or one he’d heard…he realized the woman was looking at him and came to a quick decision.

“If you’ll show us the truth, I see no reason to object, Miss Hedag. But you have to understand, we must see the truth of it for ourselves.”

“A right answer! That’s the way we’ve always done it in villages and lonely places! We have to see to believe! And so the truth you’ll see! All will see!”

Hedag laughed merrily. Without further ado, she reached out and grasped Elmmet’s head in the pillory. The man shouted, but Hedag held him for only a second. She bellowed across the crowd.

“[Revelation of Sin]!”

Then she pulled something out of Elmmet. Prost recoiled as Hedag yanked out something black, a shadowy thing, and hurled it on the ground. The crowd leapt back uncertainly, but Hedag just stepped back.

“What did you—”

“Watch.”

Hedag’s one word caught Prost’s eye and turned them on the shadow. Everyone stared as, slowly, the black thing she’d pulled out of Elmmet rose upwards. A black mass rose and formed…into a man. Elmmet. Prost stared at the man in the pillory, then at the shadow.

It had no contrast. It was one color. But the shadow was, unmistakably, undeniably, Elmmet. You could see his face, even his smirking expression. The shadow turned and, with a careless jaunt, strolled ahead.

Prost stared. Another shadow appeared, and Prost saw a woman standing with her back to Elmmet. Real—he could see the lines in her face as she turned—and yet a shadow. The shadow Elmmet strolled up to her and, without hesitation, reached out and plucked the money pouch from her hip. Then he strolled past her, smiling, without a care in the world.

“Ah.”

The strangled noise Prost made was the only sound in the world. Elmmet, white-faced, stared at his shadow as it turned a corner. Now the shadow’s face was different. A woman’s face, the very one he’d stolen from. He snuck up to another man, yanked his purse away, and as the man turned and shouted, soundlessly, bounded away. The crowd backed up as the Elmmet disguised as the woman ran at them.

Only when he was far away did Elmmet’s face change back to normal. And it was a gleeful face as he poured shadowy coins into one palm and pocketed them. Prost stared. But then the man was changing faces, this time to deceive a fellow and rob him as he slept—

“Lies. That’s—these are lies. A false magic.”

From his pillory, Elmmet croaked weakly. Prost and some others looked at him, but the rest were focused on the shadow. It was…undeniable. Perhaps it was the Skill or just the woman, Hedag, but Prost believed that Elmmet had done the very crimes he was reenacting. Stealing from a sleeping man, breaking into a house, and then the image blurred and he was slapping his wife, drunk, snarling. Prost turned his head. Elmmet’s wife had gone pale.

“Miss Hedag. What is this?”

Prost spoke quietly into the silence. The woman adjusted her hat and spoke loudly, watching the shadows shift from crime to crime.

“Why, it’s the man’s sins, Mister Steward. All laid out for us to see. Every crime he’s done. From back to front. It marks him as [Thief] and wife beater. And more, I’ll wager. Can’t you feel the truth of it? Will anyone say it’s not so? I dare you, for my Skill tells all truths, and it cannot be swayed by magic nor lies!”

She looked around, spreading her arms. Behind her, Beatica choked, but even she couldn’t figure out a way to use words to reclaim the situation. Hedag had pulled truth out from Elmmet, and the hypnotized crowd watched him. Stealing from a [Merchant]. Stealing from a traveller. Changing faces. And then—

“All crimes?”

Prost heard a whisper. He glanced over and saw Elmmet had suddenly gone white. The [Steward] looked back sharply and saw the shadow Elmmet and his new victim had changed. A girl shrank down, screaming silently, and the man reached out with an open hand. The man was Elmmet. And the girl—

Every head turned to the girl standing by Elmmet’s wife. The child stared with wide eyes at herself as the shadows told a story. A snarling figure reached out and beat at a shadow of a girl. On the real girl, if you looked closely, you could see, around her neck and shoulder—

“How long ago was this?”

Prost’s hands were itching. He didn’t look at Elmmet. Hedag did. She shook her head.

“Every crime, Steward. Each one in order. Incredibly, this man has done more sinning in a day than some manage in a year. This might’ve been a week ago. Or but a few days. But the truth of it is there to see.”

She pointed. The shadowy man was still hitting the girl, curled up. Prost thought of Chimmy, and he had to force himself to hold still. Elmmet was very still as the men and women—and children—looked at him. They had seen the truth.

Into that silence, Hedag spoke. Her voice was jovial, booming. And as cold as stone.

“A poor man steals from honest folk. Poorer still beats his own child and wife.”

She pointed at Elmmet’s wife. The woman started, and her face was as pale as her husband’s, but her eyes were locked on Hedag. She opened her mouth, but no words came out. Hedag nodded.

“Both deserve a Hedag’s presence to come when they call. Not blame nor guilt. But what of the one who raised the hand and downed the blow?”

“Death.”

Someone muttered that behind Prost. A hard line, and it came from Beycalt, a [Forewoman] who stared at the [Thief] with disgust. Elmmet’s head jerked up, and some of Lancrel’s folk paled. Hedag only sighed.

“Some’d say so, Miss. But it’s harder to say. The old laws change from village to village. Some would string up a man who beat his daughter half as hard. Others look the other way. But a [Thief]? There’s a penalty for a [Thief], sure enough. And it’s this.”

She strolled over to Elmmet in the pillory. Prost saw her lift the axe. Everyone saw it. And they knew, with the clairvoyance everyone shared, what she was about to do. But the stupid parts of their minds, the parts that lied and thought reality should be a certain way, convinced them it wasn’t going to happen. She wasn’t really going to—

The axe came down and flashed past the wooden pillory with a thunk of sound. Prost stared down at the hand as it landed on the ground. A long-fingered hand with no hair on it. Good for a [Thief]. But not so much severed. Elmmet stared at his stump of a hand in shock. Blood pooled and then ran from the stump, dribbling down the pillory. The man stared at the stump, pulled it out of the pillory, put it back in. Only then did he scream.

“Potion! Get a potion!”

Prost shouted as the crowd erupted into screams. More than half of the city folk were panicking. Even the villagers, used to beheading chickens and killing animals, stared. The violence was so sudden, so quick. But Hedag just swung her axe up and bellowed.

“Quiet!”

And it was. The woman with the hat and terrible axe reached down and grabbed the stump of Elmmet’s arm. The man flailed, screaming as tendons appeared in his neck. Hedag squeezed, and suddenly, the bleeding stopped. That didn’t stop the screaming, though. A blow from one hammer of a hand did that.

Elmmet’s head lolled back in the pillory, and his entire body jerked. Prost sucked in his breath; he’d felt that punch! The crowd flinched, but Hedag just let the man’s arm drop.

“So that’s for a child beaten. The hand’s for a [Thief].”

“You can’t do that!”

The scream came from Beatica. The [Councilwoman] pointed a shaking finger at Hedag, and there was genuine fear and hysteria in her voice.

“You—cut off his hand!”

“And? It’s a punishment as old as time. Drakes do it in their cities. And in some cities around here it’s done. A hand for a [Thief]. A blow for a child-beater.”

Hedag replied as calmly as could be. Beatica just screamed at her. Elmmet was waking up, flailing around, disoriented, as Beatica kept shouting.

“He was a [Councilman]! You cannot do that! You had no right! You’re no [Watchman]! There are laws—”

“Right? I have every right!”

Hedag’s voice cut Beatica’s shriek off. The woman turned and raised her brown hat. The axe dripped blood onto her shoulder as she raised it. The crowd, horrified and silent, watched as Hedag turned. And she was in charge. The woman spoke to Beatica, to Prost, to Elmmet, and to everyone.

“This is no city, for all you folk have come here. This is a village, and what wrong’s been done is plain to see. No one appointed me, Miss Councilwoman, it’s true. But there are times, bad times, when no one’ll do what’s needed. When folk have need of me and the truth I bring. A harsh truth, and with laws far older than I am. But it is justice, as just as any law you could name. And I will not be stopped, by you or anyone else. You called for proper justice, and here it is. The oldest kind.”

She swung her axe down, and some blood struck the ground, Prost’s leg, and the pillory. Prost stared at Hedag. Then he saw her head turn.

“And what’s been said and done is only part of it yet. Look.”

She pointed. The crowd turned. The shadowy Elmmet wasn’t done. Not by far. He had been a poor man, Elmmet. Prost had suspected it of him. But now, for all to see, his sins revealed themselves one at a time. And they were worse than just striking a helpless child, incredible as that was. Oh, far worse.

“Every sin comes to life. Every misdeed, small or large. It’s a harsh thing. And I judge with such mercy as I might. But I do judge.”

Hedag’s voice was quiet in the silence as she stared at the shadows. They were enacting something far worse now. The beginning of it, at least. Prost looked around at the women, the men—the children should not see this. Least of all the girl he saw reflected twice.

Prost tried to look away, but the truth burned him, forced him to see. Perhaps that was the nature of the Skill. The crowd tried to move, to avoid it, but it was a revelation. Inescapable. Only Hedag stared with an unmoving gaze. She looked down at Elmmet. The man was struggling, weeping, trying to say something as his sins played out.

“If I were you, Mister Elmmet, I’d hope that this were the worst of it. The worst by far. But I don’t think a man like you deserves hope. Show me what you’ve done.”

And he did. Prost felt his stomach roil, and the shadows danced. Elmmet’s dancing shadow began to chase another. A younger female silhouette who fled—and he chased and chased until—

There was no mercy in the retelling, no way to hide what came next. It played out without sound or color, but without the mercy to hide any detail either.

Someone in the crowd made a terrible, groaning sound, and a man gagged, vomited. It was appropriate. Hedag watched as Prost turned away. She watched with eyes as old as she was, but made older by what she’d seen. And Prost remembered her name at last. A woman who travelled the further villages, who performed that oldest task where there was no jail, no watchman, no law in sight but her.

Hedag the [Executioner]. The woman nodded at last as the shadows stopped for one moment. Her eyes were opened wide, and the pupils sat like vast monoliths. Her voice sounded like old rules set forth before paper and ink had writ them down. And now, without mercy or regrets, Hedag spoke two words.

“I see.”

The axe swung down, gleaming dully in the midmorning light.





Day 56 – Lady Rie



Lady Rie took a long time dressing, as was her wont. In fact, it was one of her only wants and vices. In Riverfarm, few amenities were available to her, and the comforts of fashion were a luxury Rie couldn’t do without.

Even then, it was a concession. She didn’t have half as many of her cosmetics, and many of her dresses and fine clothing had been carefully, discreetly sold to finance Riverfarm’s needs. Most of her jewelry had gone that way, and Rie feared her current wardrobe would be worn, not to mention outdated, in less than a month.

“And yet, it is necessary.”

The woman sighed to herself. She stared in the hand-mirror she carried and carefully applied a lipstick. Red, traditionally so, to fit her mood. She was not looking forwards to this morning. She suspected Prost’s trial with Master Elmmet would not be as smooth as she wanted, and she would gladly have given up all her dresses to see that man and Beatica and half of Lancrel’s elite banished for good.

“We should not have allowed things to reach this point.”

Rie sighed as she inspected her face for flaws her makeup had missed. But what could they have done? She had to admit it; Beatica might have been a poor leader in the sense of keeping her city free from Goblin attacks, but she was a magnificent manipulator. She’d turned Lancrel’s people against Riverfarm, exacerbated the already-deep rifts between urban and rural peoples. And the tensions of refugees fleeing their city and coming to live in, admittedly, close to poverty.

“And yet, Riverfarm is more than that fool of a woman can understand. Riverfarm is a jewel, uncut. Or—a potato. Made of gold. Growing in the earth.”

Rie sighed. Even her metaphors were becoming farmer-like. Which was appropriate. Perhaps, if she stayed here long enough, she’d even be fine with her less-than-perfect appearance. And what did it matter? The man she wanted to impress couldn’t see her face. He could see any number of things, but physical appearance was beyond him. It was just one of the reasons why Laken Godart fascinated and attracted Rie.

And frustrated her. She had no idea what the young [Emperor] was thinking. Oh, she could guess, but the Goblins? Madness. Lord Yitton and Lord Gralton being in his company? Masterful. Durene? Incomprehensible to Rie at first. Prost? Incredibly sound despite Rie’s misgivings.

It felt like half of Laken’s achievements were down to luck or the impetuousness of youth and the other half a product of deep thought. Either way, Rie had recognized Riverfarm and his presence for what it was: an opportunity that only came once in a lifetime. Riverfarm could be great. Unique, in fact, in Izril’s history. Or it could implode. Right now, Rie feared greatly the latter would come to pass.

“Hold the village together. Easier said than done!”

She swept out of her small house, and a man who’d been leaning against the wall silently joined her. Geram, the [Fistfighter] and former captain of her personal guard, nodded at his [Lady], and she greeted him. Manners were important, no matter how she felt. Rie smoothed her sensible, comfortable red clothing and silently wished she had a bevy of [Assassins] to kill her enemies with.

But she was a poor [Lady], monetarily that was. She had power, but it was subtle. Geram was her strongest physical asset, and while the man was loyal and capable, he wasn’t exactly a Gold-rank adventurer. Although he was good.

“Where to, Lady Rie?”

“Oh, where else? The trial, Geram. When’s it starting?”

“Midday, Lady Rie. You have time.”

The bald man nodded at the sun. Rie pursed her lips. So she did. But that wasn’t a problem. She swept forwards, and within fourteen steps, she had work.

“Lady Rie! Good morning to you! Can I bring you breakfast?”

“Lady Rie, will you eat with us? Our small circle is quite eager to talk with you—we represent some of Lancrel’s interests—”

“Lady Rie, a pot’s got a hole, and the [Chef]’s said he needs a new one. Only, Mister Helm’s not warmed his forge yet. Should we—”

A dozen people surrounded Rie in a moment, clamoring for her attention. Geram, a practiced [Bouncer], kept them back, and Rie, sighing internally and smiling externally, sorted them out one by one. The key to good leadership was delegation. Failing that, not getting bogged down in any one complaint.

Requests for dining were easy to sort out. Rie could easily say she’d taken breakfast alone—which she had—and soothe any ruffled feathers from the women who fancied themselves fit to dine with a [Lady]. Rie wouldn’t have foisted them on Durene, who was, in fact, a very careful eater. Pots just needed replacing.

As for the rest…Rie walked, speaking to the flood of people who gravitated towards her. And this at least wasn’t unusual. The volume was taxing, but Rie had been a [Lady], and thus a leader, for all her life. This was more personal than when she ruled her estates, but it could be done.

The problem was that Riverfarm lacked its heart and soul: Laken. Without him, the people who usually could manage and think independently grew dependent on Rie. She hated to admit it, but the [Emperor], who was surely lower-level than she was, could inspire his people where she could not.

That hurt Rie’s pride, but again, she swallowed the feelings and only let a polite, kind, caring exterior show. She had to be beloved. The people of Riverfarm had to trust her and not see her as another impartial [Lady], aloof and unconnected. Until Laken came back, their loyalty and trust had to be in her.

Riverfarm was a village, for all it now held enough people to be called a town. It was poor, despite its potential. Rie knew it. Her estates were far richer than Riverfarm, many times over. They were only a day’s ride away, and yes, they were small. The Valerund fortunes had declined over the last decade with the death of the family save for Rie. But even with her home town decimated by the Goblins…

Rie’s stomach clenched at the memory and all the faces she’d never see. She forced it down as she smiled at a girl offering her a flower.

“Very pretty. I thank you, Miss…Agathy, is it?”

“Yes, Lady Rie! Do you like it?”

“I’m so sorry, Lady Rie. She wanted to give you a flower ever so much. I don’t want to be a bother…”

The beaming girl’s mother apologized profusely, which was far more tiring than the flower. Rie put it behind her ear, a move that instantly won her the adoration of everyone watching. She smiled at Agathy, and that was genuine.

“I’m delighted, Agathy, and it’s no bother at all. But why not give a flower to more people than me? I’m sure they’d be delighted as well.”

Even with her home town gone, Riverfarm was poorer than Rie’s mansion. But Rie was willing to sell what was in the mansion to back Laken Godart. Purely because he was an [Emperor] and because Riverfarm was growing so fast. He could be great. He already had ideas and poise beyond his age. And his Skills were no less impressive. The simple bed Rie was using was as luxurious as the custom-built one she’d had in her mansion.

But he still had to come back. Rie’s teeth gritted as Agathy and her mother bade her farewell. Automatically, Rie went from the dining hall to the river outside the village, checking on people at their tasks. There was always something to do, some minor problem to solve. It was all so trivial.

What Riverfarm needed was a grand plan, more than just housing everyone! Prost could take care of that. The man was solid, a capable steward, Rie fully acknowledged. But he could only enforce Laken’s ideals. Laken needed to be here! Durene was right, drat the girl. They needed Laken, and not just his mysterious ‘help’, whatever that was. They needed him now! What if she sent Beniar to find him—no, that was too dangerous—

“Excuse me, milady. But you’re looking rather taxed. Would you care to have a seat with us?”

A voice interrupted Rie’s flurry of thoughts. It was old, warm, and as Rie turned, the owner smiled up at her.

An old woman was sitting at a table on the side of the street. A wooden table—one of the very ones that usually lay inside the identical houses. But that wasn’t what stopped Rie. It was the scene.

An old woman gently lifted a tea pot and filled a worn, thin, but terribly beautiful cup of porcelain. A travelling cup, perhaps, but an heirloom of one, sitting on a small saucer. The tea was a light green color, clear and inviting. Steam rose from the pot and the cup—and the ones held by the three other women sitting at the table next to the old woman.

They were sitting in wooden chairs, the dining chairs that the [Carpenters] worked so hard on for all the houses. Just sitting in the shade of a house in the street, drinking tea with the morning. It was a scene you’d see in a café or restaurant in a city, but it was the first time Rie had seen the like in Riverfarm. Everyone was too busy. But this old woman, who had a grey travelling hat festooned with fresh flowers, smiled and waved a hand gently at Rie.

“Some tea, young woman? I’m new in town, but I’ve made a delightful cup, and I’d love to sit and chat with a lovely young lady like yourself. Join us?”

“I—”

Bemused, Rie stared at the three women sitting around the table. One of them blinked; Rie recognized her as one of said [Carpenters]. Another was a woman—one of the hated Lancrel [Councilwomen]. The third was a mother from one of the towns. All three blinked up at her, bemused, but they sipped from their tea cups as if them being together was the most natural thing in the world.

Rie realized she was staring. Her eyes fell on the old woman who was holding a cup up with one hand. Rie started and took it reflexively, then inhaled the aroma. A delicate green tea’s scent. An exquisite blend; Rie would have bet all her dresses. Brewed just right! And hot—how long had it been since she’d had a cup like this? Not since her mansion. She nearly sipped and then caught herself a second time. She smiled down at the old woman.

“Excuse me. I apologize, but have we met, Miss?”

The woman smiled and patted an open chair next to her.

“Not at all. I’ve just arrived in Riverfarm. This morning, in fact. And I happened to have met these lovely young women by chance. Well, there was nothing for it but to put some tea on, and the people here were most obliging. I’m told they all have work, but I wanted to chat for a moment. You look quite busy yourself, young miss. Why don’t you sit for a spell? I have some biscuits here, and they are quite fresh.”

The wooden table was bare of tablecloth or decorations, and the chair, well-made though it was, was still simple. But it called to Rie. So did the sweet-smelling biscuits that appeared out of the woman’s travelling backpack. The other women blinked and then reached for one. Rie sipped from her cup, and the tea made her smile.

“I—really shouldn’t. I am busy—my apologies. My name is Rie Valerund. I am a [Lady] in service to His Majesty, Emperor Laken. And you are?”

The woman’s brows raised, and she peered up at Rie when she heard the woman’s class. But then she smiled, and Rie was reminded of her own grandmother. There had been a kind woman, and this one was every bit her match.

“My! A [Lady], here? My apologies, my dear. Let me greet you properly.”

“Oh no, you don’t need to—”

Rie began, but the woman got up and curtseyed quite formally, bending her knees and moving with surprising agility for someone as old as she looked. Rie smiled and returned the courtesy. The old woman sat and nodded, patting the seat again.

“My name is Eloise. I’m a travelling trader of sorts. I specialize in teas, flowers, herbs. I heard there was an opportunity in Riverfarm, and so I made the trip. Sit, please, young lady.”

It was odd to be called ‘young lady’, but Eloise was certainly old enough to call all four women it. Rie blinked with some concern at Eloise.

“All on your own? That’s a perilous journey of late, Miss Eloise.”

“I was just saying, Lady Rie. There are [Bandits] about. And an old woman isn’t immune to monsters, even if [Bandits] have some decency.”

The [Carpenter] leaned one strong forearm on the table as she sipped from her cup. She seemed pleased, although the bitter, refreshing tea wasn’t for everyone. Rie nodded along with the mother and [Councilwoman]. Eloise just laughed, and her laughter was as refreshing as the tea.

“An old woman can’t be afraid of monsters or men, ladies! I’ve seen enough of both over my years; don’t you worry. And it’s moving about that keeps me alive!”

The [Councilwoman] from Lancrel took a bite of a biscuit and patted her lips with a handkerchief. The [Carpenter] just used her hand. Normally, that would cause some tutting on the Lancrel woman’s side and prompt an eye roll from the [Carpenter], but at the moment, the two seemed so peaceful together. Friendly, even. The Lancrel woman glanced around, smiling slightly, and looked at Eloise with concern.

“Yes, but surely there is a time to settle down, Miss Eloise? You say you’re a travelling seller. But shouldn’t your family take care of you? Your relatives? I don’t mean to be rude, but even staying in a village where you can have some help…”

Eloise chuckled.

“I have a village of my own, Miss Safey. No children or relatives who’d care to look after me, I’m sure, but my village is enough. As I said, I’m travelling here for a spell. Young man, why don’t you sit? You look like you could use a biscuit yourself. Don’t let your [Lady] here take them all.”

She waved at Geram. Rie turned her head and stared up at the [Fistfighter]. Then she realized half the tea was gone from her cup, she had a half-eaten biscuit on her saucer, and she was sitting down. She glanced back at Eloise, then turned to Geram.

“These are wonderful biscuits, Geram. Try one, at least.”

The other women murmured agreement. Geram hesitated. He looked uneasy at being the only man present, but he eventually took a biscuit. He refused a teacup, though. Rie regarded hers as Eloise went around with the kettle. The tea was still steaming! And Rie couldn’t help but fill her cup and keep chatting. During a small break, she had to comment on the tea itself.

“This is a marvelous blend of tea, Miss Eloise. And your cups are finer than the ones in my estate. I don’t know if there’s much call for tea in Riverfarm—then again, for yours I’d happily discuss buying whatever stocks you have. But you must stay here. We can arrange a place for you to sleep and have you escorted when you choose to leave.”

The other women nodded. The mother gestured to the house behind her.

“My family and I would love to offer you a bed, Miss Eloise. There are the barns, but that’s no place for someone your age.”

“You’re too kind. But I wouldn’t want to put you out of a bed with two little ones and another on the way. I’m quite happy to sleep where I may, and a barn is fine enough. Come, let’s not talk about me. Tell me more about Riverfarm and this [Emperor] of yours.”

Eloise smiled and laughed again. Rie hesitated as the others at the table nodded. She glanced up at the blue sky and, with effort, stood.

“I’d love to partake in this conversation, Miss Eloise. But I’m afraid I truly am busy. Your tea and biscuits were lovely, and I’m sure I will find you again. But with apologies—”

The older woman sighed, but nodded.

“There should be time for tea every day. But I quite understand. I should be delighted, Lady Rie. But take another biscuit before you go? You look like you could use one.”

Rie shook her head. But she was smiling as she stood and bade farewell to the impromptu tea circle. The [Carpenter], the [Councilwoman], and mother seemed content to sit and talk about what had brought them to Riverfarm with Eloise, and Rie couldn’t bear to order them back to work. She stepped away from the table before she was sucked back in.

She resumed her walk, blinking as she noticed a good fifteen minutes must have passed. The sun had moved noticeably in the sky! She shook her head, bemused.

“What a lovely woman, Geram.”

Geram, chewing his biscuit, choked on his reply. Rie shook her head. She even felt better after that little break. She wasn’t so flustered or worried. A few Skills, it had to be. Or just really good tea. Either way, Eloise was a name to remember.

Now there was someone Rie was glad to have in Riverfarm, never mind her age. Then again…too many old folk would be a problem. But were they going to turn away people who came to Riverfarm based on their qualifications? As Rie walked on, she shook her head, trying to get herself back in the proper state of mind, which was anxious.

In the end, she had to trust Laken wasn’t making a mistake. But he had better get here now, and those Goblins had better be worth the delay. Or else Rie did fear for the future.

Magnolia Reinhart would not sit idly forever. This trade war was only the smallest of things in her arsenal. She might be a beneficent ruler today, but Rie had seen what the Reinharts could do. And they would drag the bodies of their foes through the streets and feed them to the dogs before yielding in anything.

She’d lost time talking to Eloise. Not just fifteen minutes either. Thirty? Rie didn’t know, but somehow she’d completely missed an event around the main gates of Riverfarm. Like everything else, they were a work in progress, not least because they had to keep being rebuilt further and further out. But the village or town or even city would need walls, and the blood-stained [Riders] trotting back down the street proved just that.

“Beniar!”

Rie’s pulse quickened in alarm as she saw the blood, but the [Cataphract] and former adventurer rode up to her with a smile on his face. He saluted her and dismounted in one move. Rie stared at the Darksky Riders, who were tending to their horses, and then the three women with hats, one old, one young, and one still a child, who were looking around the village, oblivious to the crowd, the riders, or Rie.

“What happened?”

Beniar chuckled as he jerked a thumb over his shoulder.

“What happened? Lady Rie, we got that [Bandit] group we thought was waylaying people nearby! At least one of them. They were waylaying travellers on the road—those two on horses. We wouldn’t have known or gotten to them in time, but that other one—she flew to Riverfarm and told us what was happening! On a broom!”

“A broom?”

Rie stared at the young woman that Beniar was pointing to. That jogged her memory, but before she could fix on that, the three were striding towards her. The old woman, who was wearing all black, adjusted her pointed hat and looked around.

“Excuse me. Are you the woman in charge around here?”

The question took Rie aback. It suggested that the answer was ‘no’ and that the woman asking it knew that fact, but she was asking for formality’s sake. Frowning, Rie regarded her and the young girl following close behind.

“I am Lady Rie Valerund, in service to His Majesty, Laken Godart. I understand you were attacked on the road, Miss. I hope you haven’t come to any harm?”

The woman frowned at ‘His Majesty’ and narrowed her eyes, but only slightly. She turned to look at Beniar, who gave her a charming grin.

“Pleasure to be of service, Miss.”

So the woman touched her hat, lifted it a fraction, and nodded to Beniar and Lady Rie. Just that; no bow for the [Lady], nothing else.

“Witch Califor. Thank you, Rider. Your response was truly quick. Though I had heard Riverfarm was safe from [Bandits] of any kind. I suppose that was too much to hope for?”

Her question took the wind right out of Beniar’s sails. Rie hesitated, but responded quickly.

“We are—normally. However, the, ah—ah—method we have to detect them isn’t working as it usually does, and this group had been avoiding Beniar and his [Riders] for weeks. I do regret the close call!”

“I see. I thought I felt a roving eye, but it is just one eye, then. Now, may I ask if your [Emperor] is present? I should like to meet him at his earliest convenience.”

Now, Lady Rie was annoyed at this imperious stranger, and she realized she was correcting her posture, trying to seem her best. Who was this woman? She reminded Rie of the formidable Lady Zanthia, but she was certainly no noblewoman!

“What? Emperor Godart is absent. And if he was here—if you have business in Riverfarm, I suggest you present it to me. May I ask who your companions are?”

Instead of being embarrassed by the rebuke, Miss Califor only raised one eyebrow.

“You may. This is Nanette, my student. And this is Witch Alevica.”

“Nice to meet you! I’m Witch Alevica. You might have heard of me.”

The young woman next to Califor waved a lazy hand. She looked friendly, but she was far too informal! The girl named Nanette started, stared at Lady Rie with proper awe, and began to curtsey. Right up until Miss Califor stopped her with one hand.

“Witches do not curtsey, Nanette.”

So the little girl shyly touched the brim of her hat and tipped it up. She almost tried to bow, but after a peek at Califor, who touched her hat as well, the two did nothing else.

This brief encounter was quickly reversing all the goodwill and calm of Rie’s encounter with Eloise. The [Lady]’s eyes flashed, and she drew herself up, glaring at Califor as Beniar snuck past Geram.

“Excuse me, Miss Califor. I remind you that I am a [Lady], and you are in my presence.”

“Yes. These are the facts. So you know, it is considered polite to address me as Witch Califor, Lady Valerund.”

Rie’s mouth dropped open. She saw the girl, Nanette, cover her mouth and try not to giggle, and Geram bristled—but Califor walked past her without a second word and beckoned to the girl.

“Come along, Nanette. Let’s find a place for the horses and the others. There are at least two more here. One yet to come.”

“What? How dare—come back here!”

Rie spluttered as the two walked past her with the horses, yet even Nanette didn’t turn, but hurried after Miss Califor. Rie stared at their backs until the last of the new arrivals, the young woman named Alevica, coughed.

“Hey, is there a pub around here? Or a Runner’s Guild?”

Rie, Geram, and Beniar stared at her. Alevica looked around, her smile not bothering at all to hide her amusement.

“No? I’ll be on my way then. See you in a bit.”

“Hold on.”

At last, Rie caught herself and looked at Geram. The man moved to block Alevica’s path, and the young woman stopped. Not warily, just with a frown. And her pale pink eyes narrowed as they flicked from Geram to Rie.

“Something you want?”

“Just introductions. Did Beniar say you flew into Riverfarm? You wouldn’t happen to be Alevica, the Witch Runner?”

Beniar started at the name. Alevica just grimaced.

“I prefer, ‘the only damn Runner who can fly north of Pallass.’ But sure. That’s me. I warned your militia here that there were [Bandits] attacking Miss Califor and her apprentice. No need to thank me.”

With that, she began to walk around Geram. He tried to block her a second time, but when Alevica paused, she put a hand on a knife in her belt.

“I don’t appreciate being stopped, bald man.”

Rie paused. She’d heard about Alevica, and she dearly wished she was near a city where she could pay for information about Alevica to refresh her memory. Geram looked down warily at Alevica and stepped back after glancing at Rie for confirmation. The [Lady] chose her words carefully.

“That is Geram. My bodyguard. I apologize for his insistence, but I would greatly like to speak with you, Miss Alevica.”

Laken could use a good Runner, even one with her reputation. But Alevica just grinned.

“I’m sure. But you have to wait. Don’t worry, we’ll see each other. Soon, I think.”

Her eyes flicked down the way Califor had gone, and then she turned her head over her shoulder. Rie stared. Alevica turned back to look at her, then nodded.

“See ya.”

She strolled off past Geram. The [Fist Fighter] hesitated and walked over to Rie.

“Lady Rie, should I stop…?”

“No. No, let her go.”

Rie quietly fumed as she watched Alevica strolling down the street, a hand in one pocket, scratching at windblown hair. Now she understood some of the tales about Alevica. The Witch Runner indeed. And that Califor! Rie turned balefully to Beniar, but he was already back with his Darksky Riders, regaling the crowd with exploits of what had just happened.

“I’m rather peeved at the moment, Geram. But I think I’d better find Prost and make sure the trial is going well.”

After a moment, Rie decided that was her only course of action. Geram nodded, and Rie swept down the street. Just in time to hear the screaming begin. She paused, stared down the street towards the public square and pillories, and broke into a run. Behind her, Geram swore and pounded past her.

“Lady Valerund! Let me—”

He shouted, but Rie didn’t stop. If something had gone wrong, if a riot had broken out, they’d need Beniar and his [Riders]. What had happened? Had Elmmet tricked the truth stone somehow? That shouldn’t be possible at his level. Or had that Beatica managed to stir up the crowd—

A rush of people came down the street, mainly Lancrel’s people, but villagers and townsfolk as well. Most of the ones in front were women, mothers, holding white-faced children. But families, single men, townsfolk, all of them were pouring away from the square in a rush. Rie halted, and Geram moved to block the crowd.

“Stop! What is going on?”

Rie shouted at the crowd, but she didn’t have a Skill to halt a crowd. And she hadn’t learned an aura Skill. She had other Skills, but for situations like this, all she had was her presence. And it wasn’t enough to halt the crush of people fighting to get away from—something.

Geram was, though. The big man halted those closest to him with his body alone, and when they noticed Rie through their panic, she was instantly surrounded by frightened people and screaming children.

“What is going on? Is someone hurt?”

Rie looked around, bewildered. There weren’t any marks of violence, but then a woman from Lancrel screamed out.

“He’s dead! Master Elmmet’s dead!”

Rie’s blood froze. Elmmet? Dead? Prost hadn’t lost his temper, had he? Or—what if he’d been lynched? But the crowd would have turned. These ones just looked horrified.

“How? What happened?”

“She just murdered a man in the street! Cut off his head just like that! With children to see!”

A man shouted, his face white. Rie recoiled. A public execution? She hadn’t ever seen one. But—

“Who? A woman? Not Prost?”

The crowd nodded. One of them pointed shakily.

“She called herself Hedag! And she had an axe! And she used a Skill—”

“It wasn’t real. It couldn’t be real.”

One of the women who looked like she was from Lancrel murmured through pale lips. Another man just shook his head. He looked like he’d been sick.

“It was real. Dead gods, but it was. He deserved a hundred times worse.”

Many of the people nodded. But the woman shook her head repeatedly, and her eyes were wide, wild.

“No! I knew him! He can’t have—it was a lie. It cannot be true! Cannot! It was murder all the same!”

“What we saw—”

A man began, and then there was silence. A child started screaming. Someone had to sit down, shaking. Rie realized that no one was going to make sense in the hubbub. She looked at Geram.

“I need Prost. Clear me a path. Please! Let me through!”

Geram nodded, and with Rie’s calls, he forced a path through the crowd of people all rushing away from the square. Rie stepped quickly, ignoring the people trying to get her attention.

To her relief, she found Prost at the back of the crowd, shouting and restoring order. The man had a grim look in his eyes, but he wasn’t harmed either. He was shouting at the crowd, ordering them not to shove—he turned as Rie rushed towards him.

“Prost! What happened?”

The [Steward] turned to Lady Rie, and he paused. His face was pale, sweaty, but not nearly as bad as the city folk, some of whom looked like they were close to fainting.

“Elmmet’s dead, Rie.”

“How?”

Prost inhaled slowly, grimacing. Rie stared at him, her heart beating wildly, but the [Steward] was slow to reply. Prost spoke quietly, half-turning back towards the square.

“It was a woman. Hedag the [Executioner]. She appeared in the trial when Beatica and Elmmet were stirring up trouble, claiming the truth stone was false. She—she used a Skill. Revealed Elmmet’s crimes. Then she cut off his head.”

“She murdered him?”

Rie was horrified. The [Steward] shook his head.

“That wasn’t murder. That was justice.”

He spat twice to get rid of the taste in his mouth. Rie stared at him uncomprehendingly. Her eyes shifted to the blood on Prost’s pant leg, then past him towards the square. She couldn’t see the body, which was just as well; Prost knew the axe flashing down would haunt his dreams for weeks to come.

“Tell me what happened. From the start.”

Prost nodded. He and Rie turned, and with Geram’s help, they managed to calm the crowd, who really had just wanted to get away from the grisly sight. Everyone was shocked, and the children? Sick or incoherent with panic.

Again, it was the difference between city folk and villagers; the children who’d seen a butchering or lived on a farm had seen that level of blood. Just not on a Human body.

“An [Executioner]? They’re exceptionally rare! Even most cities prefer to hire someone to do it. It hardly requires someone for that one job! And she just turned up? You’re sure she wasn’t planted by Beatica?”

Prost shook his head.

“She most definitely was not. And her Skill—”

“You’re sure it revealed Elmmet’s crimes?”

“I saw the shadow him doing all of it. It was him. I’m certain. And even Beatica would say it was the truth. What that man did deserved the axe. It was just that Hedag did it then and there, after the hand.”

The [Steward] was shaking as he remembered what he had seen. Rie stared at him, uncomprehending.

“Where is she now? Did you arrest her?”

“Arrest her? For what?”

“Killing a man in—”

The [Lady] had to stop and take a breath. Prost was clearly shaken himself. He shook his head.

“The crowd bolted, and I had to keep them from trampling each other. I’ve no idea where she is. I think she might be in the square still.”

“In that case, we need to arrest her.”

“For what? Show me a man or woman there who’ll say it was wrong. His wife won’t. His daughter?”

Prost spat again.

“If Hedag hadn’t done it, he wouldn’t have left that square alive after what I saw.”

“That’s not the point. People are panicking, and rumors will spread. Beatica will twist this, no matter what the people there saw. There must be a proper inquiry and an announcement—Geram, find Beniar.”

“I can arrest this woman myself.”

The [Fist Fighter] looked back down the street. Rie shook her head.

“Absolutely not. She has an axe; get Beniar and some of his [Riders] to back you up. Bring her to—to the throne room. And then we’ll call an assembly of everyone we can and—”

She was fumbling, looking around, trying to figure out what they’d do exactly when the second shriek split the air. Prost’s head jerked up. He and Rie looked at each other. This time, neither one wasted time asking questions. They just ran in the direction of the sound.

This was how they gathered, staring at the cauldron of ruined soup on the ground. With a murder of crows spiraling in the air. With a woman, Rehanna, lying on the ground, clutching her ruined hand as Nesor tried to heal her. Rie and Prost burst out of the crowd, which had doubled in size, and took in the moment at once. They looked at Durene, Wiskeria, Rehanna, and then up.

A…woman perched on the neatly thatched roof of the house. She had to be a woman. She had the right figure. The correct face, thin and angular, but still with its own beauty. And dark skin.

She perched like a raven. Or one of the crows circling the street overhead. And she just smiled as she looked down at Rehanna, who was screaming and clutching at her hand. Lady Rie looked at the bleeding, charred mess of her hand and then at the doorknob with blackened flesh hanging on the knob. Her stomach turned, but she kept control of it.

“It was a curse! She did it!”

One of the women pointed unsteadily up at the woman on the roof. The crowd, already uneasy, turned to panic as news of what had happened in the trial spread. And then the panic turned to fear. Hostility. Rie felt it gathering around her. She stared up at the woman and stepped forwards.

“Enough!”

Rie’s shout calmed everyone for a second. They looked at her, Riverfarm folk, Lancrel’s refugees, Prost, Durene, Wiskeria, and the woman on the rooftop. Rehanna had mercifully fainted as the potion healed her hand. In the silence, Rie pointed a finger.

“Who are you? How dare you attack one of Riverfarm’s people? This village is under the protection of Emperor Laken Godart—”

“I know.”

The woman stared down at Lady Rie. Rie hesitated.

“Why did you attack Rehanna?”

“‘Twas a rudeness done. An ill for goodwill. I just repaid her in kind.”

The woman answered as naturally as if Rie had asked why the sky was blue. She leapt down onto the street, landing lightly, and the crowd backed up. But it was to Wiskeria the woman turned. She nodded and reached up to her hat.

“Wiskeria. I greet thee.”

“Mavika. Why are you here? I told you I wasn’t coming.”

Wiskeria stared at Mavika, her face pale. Rie turned to stare at her.

“You know her? Wiskeria?”

“She’s a [Witch].”

The word repeated itself through the crowd, from person to person. [Witch]? [Witch]!

Witch. And Rie focused on the pointed hat on both womens’ heads. Then she had a terrible premonition. A thought. But it was nothing to the look on Wiskeria’s face. Slowly, the young woman looked around. She met Durene’s gaze, then Mavika’s.

“Mavika. Did the coven come with you? This is my ground. You weren’t invited! Why are you here?”

The bird-like [Witch] smiled. Bitterly, knowingly. With a crow’s mocking laughter hidden in her eyes. And a raven flew down among the crows and landed on her arm. Mavika reached up to stroke its head. She said only this:

“It is not my coven, Wiskeria. There are six. The seventh is coming.”

She pointed, and every head turned. Silently, the folk of Riverfarm looked down the streets towards the gates. And the last [Witch] arrived silently and without fuss. She was the most terrifying of them all.





Day 56 – Ryoka



After three days of running, Ryoka was relieved to see Riverfarm in the distance. She assumed it was the same village; it looked nothing like she remembered. Far too large and…but it was the right place, she was sure.

It had been a taxing run. So Ryoka smiled as she saw the village. Charlay was even more ecstatic. The Centauress let out a whoop of pleasure as she pointed at Riverfarm in the distance.

“Hah! We made it at last! I’ll race you to the gates! Last one there’s a stinky Selphid!”

She took off, racing ahead at full-speed. Ryoka blinked at her and then cursed.

“Hey! Charlay, damn it, wait—”

She charged after Charlay, but the Centauress was a horse. Ryoka couldn’t catch up with her! The City Runner slowed. She wasn’t going to charge into the village huffing and panting. She needed a plan.

She’d come here to help Laken. And to find out what he’d done with Riverfarm and who he’d become since she’d parted ways with him. Apparently, he was a ways from the village, but Ryoka had to deliver the potions to a ‘Lady Rie’. Who was a real noble, apparently. Failing that, a Mister Prost. Ryoka remembered Prost’s name, but a [Lady]? She had to tread carefully. Figure out how she could introduce herself and help. If help was what she should do.

“I have to play it cool. Charlay will help with that. I’m just a Runner—unless they’re expecting me. What did Laken tell them?”

Ryoka murmured as she ran past a forest encroaching towards the road. She hadn’t thought this through enough. She couldn’t be old Ryoka. Then again, what was new Ryoka’s game? What could she do?

Suddenly, Ryoka stopped in the road. She didn’t know why. Only that the wind at her back had gone still. It had been blowing gently behind her. But all of a sudden it died. And the young woman felt a cold chill run down her spine.

There was no reason for it. One moment she was running, the next, her legs had stopped on her. Ryoka reached for the wind, but it was gone. Not rebellious, not refusing to listen to her.

Gone.

And the Runner girl realized she was no longer alone. It was a prickling of her thumbs, a tingling on the back of her neck. As she turned, she saw them.

Dead bodies. Lying in the shadows of the trees. Men and women, hacked to pieces. Blood had run and dried, but the ground was still wet in places. And the forest held them.

It was a lovely, blue, clear, dry day. Ryoka stared at the dead bodies. A dozen had died, at least. She took a step back. She’d missed them, but there they lay. Bandits? Travellers? She looked around and felt it again.

Something was out there. The young woman reached for her belt and stopped. Her head turned. The dirt road was blank. Riverfarm seemed very far away in the distance. There was no one here.

But there was. The shadows seemed longer across the ground. The forest grew in the distance, and the branches of nearby trees reached for Ryoka. She looked around, and her skin crawled, and the hairs on her body rose. Something was watching her.

Her missing fingers ached. Slowly, carefully, Ryoka let go of her belt knife and reached for something in her bag of holding. Her fingers came out holding a caltrop. Pure, cold iron. Ryoka tossed it to her other hand and reached back into her bag of holding. She came out with a cross, the tip sharpened like a stake.

It didn’t make her feel better. Something was out there, and Ryoka felt terribly, terribly cold. Too late, she remembered the run on the Winter Solstice. Not when she’d come to Riverfarm, but when she’d left it.

She had been in a forest then. Ryoka’s head slowly turned. The dead faces lying amongst the trees stared at her. She backed away, her heart pounding. She shouldn’t have come here. It was a trap.

Ryoka turned to run. Then she saw her. She was standing on the road in front of Ryoka, not a dozen paces away. She was so obvious that Ryoka didn’t know how she had missed her.

A tall woman straightened from one of the bodies. Blue, but so dark in color as to appear black. Long and draping; a robe tattered by a hundred thousand cuts and frays in it. Rich cloth torn to shreds.

No—wait—Ryoka blinked, and the cloth was whole and plain. It was so long as to almost pool behind the woman and simple. A traveller’s robes—

Blink.

—Ancient fabric covered with delicate ornamentation. Tiny skulls and fields of wheat blending and melding together into the seam of her robes. So tiny Ryoka shouldn’t have seen them from here, but perfectly magnified. A sweeping march of the crests of kingdoms, and a thousand banners, each bearing a different crest, rising up over old fabric that shone like magic itself.

Then the robes were just robes, and Ryoka saw the woman’s head turn. She had black hair, which ran down to her waist, and she was tall. Seven feet tall? She cast a vast shadow that stretched before her. Not just from her mere height; the hat on her head was wide enough to cast her entire body into shade. Its wide brim was ungainly but for how she wore it. And it was pointed.

Ryoka took a step back. Her hands were shaking. This was no specter or dream. This woman was real. But Ryoka felt it. The same feeling she sometimes got from Ivolethe. The feeling of the Solstice. From Teriarch. Her fingers hurt.

The woman hadn’t seen her. She had been inspecting the dead, her fingers touching the red stains on the ground. When she stood—

Her robes rustled, and she cast her eyes towards the horizon. The air rustled around the woman. Fled, carrying cobwebs off around her.

Strands of thread, like a storm. Filaments of gossamer web that became a sea of vanishing particles. The woman opened her hand, as if to catch them, and for a second—her eyes followed the webs as they vanished.

Then she was utterly still. Eyes fixed on something Ryoka couldn’t see; Ryoka could not take her eyes away from the stranger. Only after a second did those eyes roll—following the wind as it gusted away, whirling around the frozen City Runner. Then they focused on Ryoka.

The woman had seen her.

She walked beneath the shade, abandoning the stain of red. Her stride was slow, unhurried. As she approached, Ryoka saw her face beneath the hat.

There was no expression on the woman’s face. Neither surprise nor curiosity. Nor anger, not sadness. Just a blank stare. And her eyes—her eyes! Ryoka stared into them. They weren’t a normal person’s eyes.

The woman’s pupils were all wrong. She had not one, but multiple irises, each one smaller and smaller, disappearing into the center of her eyes. And in each iris, the color of her eyes was orange. A pumpkin’s color, the color of fire, carrots. Tiger’s stripes, rust. Black rings dividing her eyes into ever-smaller irises.

Orange glowing beneath the hat with more light than the sun had to offer. It seemed as if Ryoka could fall into those eyes.

Ryoka felt her breath coming in quick bursts. The caltrop was digging into her hand, the points drawing blood. The stake was slippery in her other hand. The woman stopped in front of her, and Ryoka realized the woman was taller than her. Not thin, not wide. But she seemed to block out the sun. She looked down at Ryoka. And then she bent forwards.

Down—Ryoka had never met a woman who had to stoop to get eye to eye with her. The head tilted left. Right. Then the woman sniffed.

At this, Ryoka did flinch backwards. The woman inhaled—narrowed her eyes, then stared at Ryoka. The Wind Runner, reflexively, jogged back a few steps. The woman remained still, stooped in that odd posture, staring. Her eyes followed Ryoka as the Wind Runner edged back.

She didn't move. Ryoka edged back another step, saw those eyes shift slightly—then stare ahead. They flicked from Ryoka to Riverfarm, as if noticing something. Then to Ryoka—then there was that sniffing again.

What was she staring at—? Ryoka looked around, wondering if it was—

The woman was right in front of her. There was no way she could have moved, but she was right there, the same posture, but she had bridged the distance until she and Ryoka were almost nose-to-nose.

“Gah!”

Ryoka leapt back in terror, now, well and true fright. But the woman just tilted her head one last time. Then she straightened.

Tall, face impassive, she stood there for…minutes. How long, Ryoka couldn’t say, but like someone cornered by a strange beast, she just stood there. The City’s Runner’s legs were shaking until the woman’s eyes boring into her head blinked. She blinked—spoke.

“Hello. A fine day it is, traveller.”

Her voice was deep. Quiet. And it had a reverberation, a subtle echo to it. But the words were normal. Ryoka started. She felt sweat running down her back. The woman stared down at her. After a moment, she looked up and gestured at the sky. She wore black gloves. No—black wrappings, a thin cloth wrapped around each finger and hand. Only the skin on her face was visible. The woman went on, staring up at the sky.

“A fine day to travel upon any road. Dry. Although it should be raining. Thundering. But the skies are clear. It bodes ill.”

She looked down at Ryoka. Her tone was trying to be conversational, but there was nothing normal about her. Behind her, the bodies lay in death. The shadows seemed to slowly be moving. The woman stared at Ryoka. She glanced once at the caltrop and stake-cross. Then at Ryoka’s face as if they didn’t exist.

“I seek sanctuary. I have been invited and name myself Great Witch of Terandria. By my hat, I claim entry to these lands and the hospitality of the realm. Allow it me, I pray you.”

“Wha—who—?”

Nothing about this made sense. But the words snapped Ryoka out of her paralysis. Uncertainly, she lowered her hands. She let go of neither weapon, though. The woman was asking for sanctuary? Ryoka glanced past the woman at the dead people on the road.

“The bodies—”

The woman blinked slowly. Then her head turned. She regarded the bodies as if she’d forgotten they existed. She turned back to Ryoka and nodded.

“Yes. Death.”

Her tone was completely disinterested. As if the dead were leaves or branches. Ryoka licked her lips.

“Did you cause that? I mean—did you see what happened?”

It seemed to her that if the woman had done it, she would seem guilty or at least—invested. For answer, the woman thought about the question, then replied slowly.

“I saw neither murder nor ghost. I am seeking Riverfarm. Do you know where it lies?”

The woman looked at Ryoka. The City Runner hesitated.

“It’s behind you. Down the road.”

The woman’s head turned again. She regarded the village in the distance.

“I see. It was not here the last time I visited.”

That was all she said. There was no embarrassment, no pointing out it was in plain view. The woman turned to Ryoka.

“I thank you for your help, messenger. I must continue my journey. I am late. A fair morning to you. A pleasure to meet someone on the road.”

Normal words. But those eyes. The feeling in her bones—Ryoka shuddered. The woman was just staring at her after saying her goodbyes. And Ryoka was sure she was something beyond just Human. Something like—Az’kerash?

Part of her wanted to run. But the rest had to ask. Ryoka took a shaky breath.

“I—uh—no problem. I’m—my name is—Ryoka Griffin. What’s yours?”

She wondered if that was a mistake. But the woman didn’t react to Ryoka’s name. She just waited and then replied.

“I am called Belavierr.”

“Nice to meet you.”

A pause.

“A fair day’s greetings, yes.”

The two regarded each other. Ryoka warily, Belavierr as if…Ryoka were a perplexing obstacle. She didn’t seem to need to blink except when she chose. Ryoka took another breath.

“I, uh—you have business in Riverfarm? Would you like to travel together, Mis—Belavierr?”

“I do not believe that would be wise. My mount does not tolerate strangers.”

“Mount?”

Ryoka stared at Belavierr. The woman nodded once. Her voice dropped, and she stood there again, wistfully, raising one hand towards the sun itself, as if in regret.

“Though I had no cause to ride him for an age.”

She turned and gestured. Only then did Ryoka notice the horse. It was standing in the forest, pawing the ground and snorting quietly. It was a giant of an animal. Ryoka gaped. How had she missed it? Belavierr turned and walked towards it. The animal had no saddle, but she hoisted herself up without missing a beat.

The stallion was black and huge, a beast of an animal that could put a warhorse to shame for sheer size. But the woman was tall enough herself, and with that hat, she cut a dramatic figure riding on it.

“I thank thee for your help, friend of winds.”

Belavierr looked flatly at Ryoka and spoke without emotion or inflection. So saying, she turned, and the horse began to walk ahead down the road towards Riverfarm. Ryoka thought that was it. But the woman remained turned in her seat.

Staring at Ryoka. Her ringed eyes never left Ryoka’s face. And the young woman was held by the gaze. The horse walked forwards, but Belavierr kept staring. For a minute, three, seven—until she was a distant shape heading towards Riverfarm. Only then, far, far in the distance, did she turn.

Ryoka felt the moment the woman’s eyes left her. She shuddered, and only then did the wind return, blowing against her back. She heard a buzzing sound, dodged backwards reflexively, and saw a large insect with too many legs flying towards the bodies. She smelled the scent of iron in the air and death. Ryoka gagged, then peered down the road.

A distant horse and rider were heading towards the village. Ryoka stared at Belavierr’s back. At the dead people. Then she looked down the road. She could run. She could leave. But—Charlay was in Riverfarm. She’d taken the request. And Belavierr wasn’t the three strangers in the forest. She wasn’t Az’kerash. Or Teriarch. Or Ivolethe.

But she was something. Ryoka didn’t know what, but she had a guess. She fixed on her hands. Blood ran from where the caltrop had dug into her palm.

“‘By the pricking of my thumbs, something wicked this way comes.’ Fuck. Laken, what have you done?”

Then she ran towards Riverfarm. When she arrived, it was in time to see Belavierr walking down the main street. As Ryoka drew close to the scene, she felt the same presence. The same feeling that the shadows were moving around her.



Rehanna, lying on the ground, her burnt flesh on the doorknob. The blood of Elmmet running down the main square of Riverfarm. A crowd staring at the overturned cauldron. Prost, Rie, Durene, and Wiskeria confronting the woman as crows circled overhead. This was the tableau. Only, it wasn’t a quiet stage. The people were beginning to scream at the [Witch], Mavika. Some were calling for Beniar, and he was riding forwards, escorting a giant of a woman. Multiple events coming into confluence.

But it was Mavika’s pointing finger that drew the attention to her. The lone figure on horseback. She walked down the street calmly, sedately. But her presence drew all that had followed before her into silence.

Clop. Clip. Clop. She rode into the center of Riverfarm, down the street in the center of all of it. Belavierr rode straight for the crowd, and the people parted nervously. But the woman, against expectations, stopped. She dismounted from her horse and patted it. With everyone watching, the woman whispered in the horse’s ear, and it trotted back the way it had come to graze on some grass outside the village. Then, she turned and looked around.

Her eyes glowed beneath the hat. The people shuddered. But Belavierr took no notice. She stared through them, and her gaze focused on only one person.

Wiskeria. The young woman stood in the crowd, and her face went pale. She turned away from Mavika. Durene, standing next to her, heard her whisper.

“It can’t be. Why is she here?”

“Who?”

Durene, bewildered, looked at Wiskeria. But the [Witch] didn’t answer. Mavika, however, did.

“So that is the seventh.”

The bird-like woman seemed to hesitate, but then she strode forwards as the raven landed on her shoulder. Mavika walked past Wiskeria, past Rie and Prost and the crowd. They sprang away from her as the crows flew low, following their mistress. Belavierr paused. And then another person stepped out of the frozen world.

Hedag walked past Beniar and Geram. A young woman strolled down the street. She joined the three, making them four.

Witch Alevica was glancing from face to face, first at Mavika, paling and touching her hat in awe, then Hedag, whispering to a little girl who was staring at Mavika in terror, Eloise who Alevica seemed least impressed by, the tall woman, Califor, with a look of incredulity…

Hedag, Alevica accorded vague respect, and Belavierr she stared at without any comprehension at all. Alevica’s voice was loud enough to hear.

“By my hat! That’s Witch Mavika herself. Be polite, Nanette. And the Hedag? The Eloise is here, and the Califor herself? I mean, that’s your master, but mine should be here, not me! Wait. Who’s…?”

She didn’t know the tallest of the lot, Belavierr. But when she saw the others walking together, Alevica hurried forwards.

A pair followed them. An older woman and a child, who raised her pointed hat to Mavika and received the same. But they stopped when they saw the tall woman.

“Of course.”

Califor sighed, and Nanette tipped her hat to the tall woman, who had not acknowledged the others. Hedag winked at Nanette, but her eyes, Mavika’s, and Califor’s fixed on the woman called Belavierr.

“Should we call an end to this here and now? Good to see you, Califor. I tip my hat to thee.”

Hedag’s voice was merry, and the blood on her axe was still wet. Califor pursed her lips.

“Too late to stop. Who else?”

Her head turned, and an old woman approached, greeting the other six with a warm smile. Eloise tipped her hat to the others. Then her eyes stole to the tall woman.

“So that is why Agratha claimed she was not invited. We might have expected this—”

Whatever she might have said was cut short by Mavika’s harsh voice.

“Silence. There are words for after. Now matters, no matter who and why we came.”

At this, Eloise ducked her head, and the women were silent. Then, all of them looked back down the street.

When they walked, it was together.

A young woman—no, a girl who might have been twelve wearing a dark blue hat with a wrinkle near the tip. Leading her, a stern-faced woman, her hat properly black, but a lighter shade of it, as were her robes, made for riding and travel, walking forwards without regard to whoever was in the way.

The short, smiling, elderly woman who’d been sipping at tea. Her hat appeared on her grey locks, decorated with still-fresh sunflower heads, a friendly grey hat bestrewn with color. She strolled along, her face wrinkled, pleasant, her gait quicker to keep up with the others.

The hunched figure who’d cast a curse. A flock of black birds circled overhead as she walked. Her hat was as black as shade, bearing a crow that cawed as it fluttered its wings, dislodging a feather.

A young woman with pale, pink eyes strode forwards. She wore a purple, professionally tailored hat, narrower and sloped to prevent it leaving her head at speed. She carried a broom on one shoulder, and her steps were light.

Next to her strode a giant of a woman, nearly as tall as Durene, and with arms heavy with muscle. Her smile was like sunshine, warm and glowing, but with harsh brilliance hidden beneath. Her hat was brown and worn, a travelling companion. Stained with dark liquid in places.

In the middle of them, the woman who did not belong, who made the shadows twitch. Her hat was wide, blue as the depths of the ocean, so unfathomably dark as to be close to black, and as old as she was. Her face was expressionless, but her eyes never left Wiskeria’s.

Seven of them. They walked down the street, small and tall, old and young, smiling and silent. Shoulder-to-shoulder. And their pointed hats marked them.

Witches.

They stopped in the street, ignoring the folk of Riverfarm, Rie, Prost, even Durene. It was Wiskeria who they looked at. Each [Witch] stepped forwards, one after another from…youngest to oldest? The girl was first.

Nanette. She trembled, aware of the eyes on her as she raised her hat and bowed at the same time.

“W-Witch Wiskeria? I tip my hat to thee.”

Alevica winked and simply raised her hat an inch, grinning with amusement at Wiskeria.

“Heya, Wis, I tip my hat to you.”

Next, Miss Califor, whose delivery was as smooth and precise as Nanette’s had been stuttering.

“Witch Wiskeria, I tip my hat to thee.”

After her, Hedag. The woman boomed as she swept her hat off, revealing her hair.

“Young Wiskeria! I tip my hat.”

Eloise was next. The old woman bowed as she tipped her hat, her voice kind.

“Wiskeria, a pleasure. I tip my hat to you, child.”

Second-last was Mavika. Her gaze was familiar, and she raised her hat silently, dislodging the crow.

“Wiskeria, to thee my hat I tip.”

Then it was Belavierr’s turn. She stepped forwards, and all but Wiskeria stepped back. Her face was expressionless. It had not changed one whit this entire time, not in greeting the others or before. But Ryoka, panting, standing next to Charlay in the back, saw something happen as Belavierr raised her hat. Her features changed ever so slightly. She—smiled.

“Daughter, I tip my hat to thee.”

Ryoka thought it was a smile. It was awkward on her face and gone in a flash. But she had seen it. So had Wiskeria. The [Witch] faced the seven as Belavierr stepped back. And she hesitated. Her hand rose to her hat. Then it stopped.

“What are you all doing here?”

The [Witches] paused. Mavika frowned darkly, and Eloise looked rueful. Hedag just shook her head. Miss Califor’s disapproval was written on hers. Nanette was terrified. Alevica just grinned wider. Wiskeria looked from face to face. Belavierr’s was the last she focused on.

“Mavika? Why are you here? Let alone Witch Eloise and Hedag! How far did you come? You—you must be Califor. And you!”

Her head swung from face to face as the older women, Mavika, Eloise, Hedag, and Califor, regarded her. But it was the oldest woman that Wiskeria pointed at angrily, aggressively. Even Mavika seemed shocked as Wiskeria raised her voice.

“This is not your ground, Mother. And this isn’t your coven! This is my land—begone!”

It did nothing to Belavierr’s blank expression. The tallest [Witch]’s voice was calm.

“I claim hospitality, Daughter. My home is but embers. My great work has been ruined by song and flame. Will you not smile for me?”

Belavierr answered Wiskeria, and the [Witch] just stared at her. Her eyes flashed.

“I don’t care. We have parted ways, and I deny you. I am not your daughter any longer, but a [Witch] in my own right. By my craft and on my hat, I claim this place. Leave or be a witch who honors no tradition or vow among our kind!”

Belavierr did not move. Mavika hissed.

“She is here by invitation. By pact and promise. A coven was convened. Seven—Nanette is the apprentice. You are the last.”

Wiskeria turned red. She raised her voice to the point of shouting, glaring at each [Witch] in turn.

“A coven? Who convened it? Not me! I wasn’t consulted, and you, Mavika? You attacked a member of Riverfarm! And Hedag—! Where’s Oliyaya? Why would she allow this?”

Eloise exchanged a glance with Mavika, and the bird-[Witch]’s expression was dark. It was Miss Califor who spoke in a clear, carrying tone.

“Witch Wiskeria. I greet you twice. I hear your objections, but we are [Witches] from across this continent and, indeed, world. We have travelled far and at inconvenience to be here. Your shock I well understand. Your ties with your mother I shall not interfere in.”

Belavierr’s eyes flicked sideways to Califor, and Wiskeria turned to the other [Witch], hesitating. Califor went on.

“As to the rest, I regret to say it is here we must stay, your greeting or not. Witch Oliyaya could not attend, but seven witches were called for, and seven have arrived. No matter who—”

She glanced at Belavierr, then at Alevica, who clearly felt like she was the odd one out, staring wide-eyed at the others—

“We must stay. I ask for your blessing and friendship. I would hate to quarrel amongst our own.”

“What? Why?”

For answer, all the [Witches] present looked to Belavierr. Alevica’s grin faded. Hedag lowered the axe on her shoulder to the ground and leaned on it. Eloise lowered her hat’s brim.

And Belavierr? She lifted something up. She had not been holding it a second before, but now her hands were full. What she held was a hat.

It was pointed. Green, forest green. A smaller hat than the one she wore, classically pointed, tied with a yellow ribbon around the base. Wiskeria’s eyes widened when she saw it.

“That’s—Witch Mamie’s—”

She looked up, her face suddenly pale. Belavierr met her daughter’s eyes. Slowly, she turned the hat. And Wiskeria saw the hole around the brim of the hat. The faded, dried blood.

The street was still. Ryoka, staring at the hat in Belavierr’s hands, understood what it meant. Everyone did. A [Witch]’s hat. Wiskeria took it as her mother offered it to her, her hands shaking. She stared at the hole, then at Mavika.

“How—why wasn’t I told? When did it happen? Who did this?”

Her voice broke on the last words. The bird-[Witch] didn’t reply. Slowly, Mavika looked up. A crow swooped down. And dropped something into her hands.

The second hat fell slowly, and it was small. A red hat, too vibrant and stylish to be immediately a [Witch]’s—save for the pointed tip. Red, fancy. Torn across the brim twice. Mavika caught it and held it out. Wiskeria stared at it, face now completely bloodless.

“Witch Tillica?”

She jerked as Hedag reached into the pack she carried and brought something out. A yellow hat, or at least, it had been, stained by many years and time. And at the end, blood. By her side, Alevica reached into her bag of holding and brought out another hat. Eloise, Califor, even Nanette, her hands shaking. It wasn’t just one. Belavierr lifted a second hat. And then a third. She placed them on the ground; Wiskeria was frozen.

Hat after hat. Pointed, rounded, old and new. Twenty of them in the end. They sat on the ground, torn, broken, bloody. Some were in pieces, barely recognizable. Others could have been store-bought. A bit further away, Ryoka stared at the line of hats neatly lined up, and small bumps raced up her arms.

“What happened?”

Wiskeria’s lips were bloodless. Mavika was the one she turned to first and then, slowly, to Belavierr. Only her mother’s face hadn’t changed as the hats were placed on the ground. Alevica had bitten her lip hard enough to draw blood, and Califor had drawn a shaking Nanette to her. The other [Witches] waited as Califor spoke.

“A fortnight past, the Marshlands Coven was called upon by strangers. Without Witch Mavika, they met and were made an offer. They refused. And they died. Witch Mavika found those responsible and delivered vengeance on those who bloodied their blades. Not the ones who made the offer. Witches are being hunted once again.”

For some reason, Califor’s eyes swung to Belavierr, but the tall [Witch] ignored her. Wiskeria’s eyes narrowed as she met her mother’s gaze, but she turned to Califor. Califor indicated Mavika, whose head was bowed.

“Each hat of the dead coven was taken and a ritual cast. To six [Witches] a hat was sent by wind or person, by chance or fate. Six—to form a new coven here that the plight of [Witches] be addressed.”

Eloise took over. The shortest [Witch] save Nanette raised her voice, speaking in an official tone.

“We call upon Witch Wiskeria to join us in a coven. And we claim the rights of travellers to stay in Riverfarm. We claim sanctuary. We shall remain here until His Majesty, Emperor Laken, may meet with us. We have matters of importance to discuss. An offer. A bargain to be made. While we wait, we shall offer our services.”

At her words, Belavierr smiled, as if something had occurred to her suddenly. She raised one hand, and a needle appeared. It was made of bone, polished and worn, and Ryoka shuddered to see it. The other [Witches] nodded, Hedag with her axe, Mavika holding a bird on one arm. Miss Califor and Nanette stood together. Eloise sighed and adjusted her hat filled with flowers. Alevica winked at Ryoka in the crowd.

And Wiskeria, holding the hat, looked around, lost, and then at her mother. Ryoka saw a familiar look on Wiskeria’s face too, though she had never met the [Witch] before. But Ryoka understood the look on the daughter’s face as she gazed up at her mother. Dislike, confusion, anger—

Ah, family. Hedag boomed as she looked down at Wiskeria.

“Will you offer us your greeting, Witch Wiskeria? We would not have come if we were not needed. We call for you, witch.”

Mavika nodded.

“A witch you are. A witch we need.”

Wiskeria was lost for words. The bloody hats swayed her, shocked her, and yet—her eyes swung upwards. To the woman claiming to be her mother. She stood there, in silence, as Nanette held onto Califor’s hand, and Alevica looked around, hunching her shoulders. At last, Wiskeria exhaled.

“I greet you, sisters. I apologize. And I do tip my hat to you all. Welcome. I accept this dire coven and join you.”

She touched the brim of her hat, tipping it up, and the other [Witches] relaxed. As if something tense had suddenly been relieved. Hedag smiled, Mavika nodded, and Eloise gave Wiskeria a nod. Califor’s features didn’t change. She watched as Wiskeria turned two bright eyes upwards, and her features contorted into a scowl.

“—to all but you.”

She looked Belavierr in the eyes, and the [Witch] spoke.

“I claim right of hospitality, Daughter. I must.”

Wiskeria jabbed a finger at the taller woman.

“I can’t stop you. But you are unwelcome, Mother. Unwelcome, unwanted, and unloved. Know that—the rest of you, welcome to Riverfarm.”

She turned away. Alevica began to whistle, fell silent, and Nanette looked shocked by this response. So did Durene and everyone else who knew the mild-mannered Wiskeria. The Coven stood there, clearly not having received the greetings they expected.

And the unexpected witch? The one rejected by her very daughter?

Belavierr’s eyes slowly drifted away from her daughter’s stare as Wiskeria stormed away. She straightened and stood there, like a statue. Slowly, her head rotated, taking in the village, the people, and everyone waited for the witch known as Belavierr to do something. Say something.

When the [Witch] spoke, her lips moved upwards and she held them there, as if that was all a smile was. She said:

“A fair morning to you all.”





6.38


The sun was rising on another peaceful day in Liscor. The birds were singing, the flowers growing. Although, it had to be said, the native population of Ashfire Bees that normally pollinated the entire Floodplains area was trapped in a cavern, and thus the reproduction rate of Liscor’s ambient flora might well halve itself in the near future with the loss of a keystone species.

And the only reason the birds were alive was because a certain Antinium Worker wasn’t perched in his tower, happily sniping down anything with wings. In that sense, the peaceful day actually lacked the pleasant birdsong followed by the thwap of a bowstring and a terrible squawk for it to be completely regular.

But it was peaceful. If things were different, well, they were the same in some areas. A single Ashfire Bee greeted the day as she buzzed from flower to flower inside The Wandering Inn, pollinating and getting happily high off the nectar. And there was a Worker on the roof of the inn. He had a hammer, a tin filled with nails, and a purpose.

He was laying down a roof on the rebuilt third floor of the inn. The frame had been created, the floor laid, but the roof had yet to be finished. So this Worker had been assigned to his duties at dawn by Belgrade; he had clambered onto the roof with a large supply of roof tiles, copper nails, and begun hammering them into place.

The Worker had no safety belt or gloves. Or anyone to spot him. And he was three stories up, balancing on the thin frames while he used all four hands to laboriously bring tiles over from the roofed section of the inn, balance them on a crossbeam, hammer them into place, and not tumble to his death if he so much as took a step backwards.

All things considered, this was one of the safer jobs he could have been asked to do in service of his Hive, and the Worker was content. He was no Individual or even Autonomous, the new class below Individual. He hammered in his last roof tile, carefully overlapping it with the last one so water would flow down unimpeded when it rained with no chance to leak into the building below. He was working hard and precisely. Water could not be allowed inside the inn. That was a bad thing. That was all the Worker thought about.

Aside from the fact that he needed new tiles. The Worker looked up and saw them in a large basket balanced a dozen feet to the left. He would have to get up, transport more over, and begin hammering again. It was inconvenient and slow, but the Worker was alone, and a job was a job. So he got up, balancing carefully so as to not tip over the edge of the roof and die—

And a roof tile soared out of the basket, through the air, and landed right on top of the next spot in front of the Worker. He stared at it, then looked around. The roof tile had flown! And it was right in the next spot where he needed to put the next roof tile. Just like that. The Worker stared at the tile. He stared at the basket.

Normal [Builders], or rather, non-Antinium, would have stopped to ask questions. They would have searched for a [Mage], maybe stopped working to check if they had company. At the very least, they would have made a verbal comment. But this Worker wasn’t about to panic or ask questions. He was a [Roofer]. He saw a tile? He hammered nails into it.

The Worker positioned a nail, and another hand swung while his last two steadied himself on the roof and the tile in place. One, two, three—the nail went in. The Worker hammered four more nails in and looked up in time to see another tile flying into place right above the tile he’d just affixed to the roof. He stared at it. Then he raised his hammer.

More nails, each hammered quickly into place. This time, the Worker looked up and saw the next tile flying towards him. He edged out of the way, and it moved into place. Without missing a beat, he grabbed more nails in his lower-left hand and got to work. Now this was easy!

One tile. Two. Three…they flew into place, just waiting for the nails! The Worker had a rhythm going. Then he saw the tiles flying and the nails with it! It slapped itself into place and the nails drove themselves in. The Worker stared. The next five tiles affixed themselves to the roof as he watched. Whatever magic or…whatever was doing it was far more efficient than the Worker and as precise as he could ever be. The tiles flew, landed and then, after the tenth one—

Stopped. The Worker stared at his basket. There were still more tiles and more nails in his tin. But the tiles had stopped moving. The Worker hopefully made his way over to the basket and picked one up. He tossed it up gently into the air. It obeyed the laws of gravity, and he caught it before it landed.

The Worker stared at the tile. His antennae drooped slightly, and he slowly got back to work the slow, mundane way. Below him, Erin, Lyonette, and Mrsha stared up at the roof and looked at each other. Erin breathed out as she lowered her hand. Mrsha’s eyes were shining, and Lyonette was biting her lip. Erin grinned at her handiwork.

“That’s so cool.”



—–



“[Partial Reconstruction]!”

In the very early morning in her quiet inn, Erin shouted the word and pointed. Ceria, nursing a hangover, winced. But she watched along with the others as the broken chair, a mess of splinters and wood pieces, quickly rebuilt itself. The wood fused as the half-Elf stared, and in less than ten seconds, a completely intact chair sat across from her. The half-Elf whistled softly.

“Now that’s a powerful Skill.”

“It’s amazing! Did you see that? Seborn, hey, Seborn—did you see—”

Erin grinned and looked around. Her inn was quiet and sparsely populated, but only by comparison with the last few days. It did, in fact, have nearly thirty people in it; the Players of Celum, setting up on stage, the Horns of Hammerad—except for Pisces, who was still asleep—Lyonette, Mrsha, Drassi, Ishkr, three [Barmaids], two [Servers], Apista, Relc, and…the Halfseekers.

Two of them, at least. Seborn and Moore were sitting at a table. The Drowned Man looked up and nodded briefly. He didn’t seem happy, but then, he never did. He was largely expressionless by nature, and he regarded the chair with less amazement than the others.

“I saw. Useful Skill.”

“Aw, come on. It’s amazing! Isn’t it?”

“Amazing.”

The Drowned Man dutifully replied. He sipped from his mug of water and didn’t exactly scowl. Erin pouted, then looked around.

“What about you, Relc? It’s cool, right?”

“Cool? It’s great! Hey, can I try to break another chair?”

The [Guardsman] excitedly grabbed a chair, and Mrsha nodded vigorously. He was here early on a day off, and he’d gotten to witness Erin testing out her new Skill. Erin nodded, and he grabbed a second chair.

“Alright! Stand back, Mrsha! Fix—this!”

He smashed the chair into the floorboards, and Ceria winced. The wood splinters flew everywhere, and the half-Elf raised a hand to shield her face. Mrsha, who’d obediently scooted back behind a table, ducked. But a large arm and hand gently protected her from the flying debris. Moore gave Relc a reproachful look as he savored his porridge. The Drake was too excited to notice.

“Alright, fix that, Erin!”

“You got it!”

Erin pointed, and the broken chair and floorboards reassembled themselves in moments. Relc crowed as he raised his fists.

“That is so cool! Not even magic can do that!”

“Magic can totally do that. I mean, I could do some of that if I knew [Repair]. And there’s [Reconstruct]. I bet most veteran [Mages] from Wistram could do that.”

Ceria grumbled. Relc ignored her as he turned to Erin, eyes shining.

“What level was that Skill, Erin? Level 30? Are you Level 30 already? It’s gotta be a high-level Skill, right?”

Erin blushed and waved a hand as everyone looked at her.

“Aw, well, you know…it’s really good, isn’t it?”

“It’s fantastic. That’s a proper [Innkeeper] Skill right there. Hey, can I try something bigger? Like a table?”

The young woman nodded eagerly.

“Go ahead! I wanna see what I can do! Heck, maybe I’ll rebuild the entire roof!”

“Hold on, let’s not go overboard.”

Lyonette cautioned the two, but it was too late. Relc raced over to an unoccupied table and, with considerable experience, leapt and gave it a flying elbow. The [Princess] sighed as the table cracked, and Mrsha and Erin cheered.

“Awesome! [Partial Reconstruction]! Do another, Relc!”

“Yeah, can I?”

“Go for it!”

The background crash and reassembly got boring after the third break for everyone but Erin and Relc and Mrsha. Lyonette sighed and went to fill drinks. Ceria sipped from a glass of milk and ate a plateful of spaghetti and meatballs. Yvlon, sitting across from her, wrinkled her nose.

“Ceria, don’t you think there’s better things to eat in the morning?”

The half-Elf considered this as she chewed and swallowed.

“Nope. What’s the point of having an inn where I can have any dish I want, fresh, and not having something like this?”

Yvlon opened her mouth to reply, then turned her head and stared left at Ksmvr. He looked up from his plate. He was eating porridge with Acid Flies sprinkled into it. Yvlon stared at her teammates, sighed, and shook her head.

“Why is it that I suddenly wish Pisces were here? I must be coming down with something.”

She pushed back her empty bowl just in time for Relc to hurtle past her and body slam a chair. He looked up.

“Yeah?”

“Yeah!”

Erin pointed at the chair and mended its broken back. Relc grabbed two more chairs and jumped on a table. He smashed one on the ground.

“Yeah!?”

“Yea—oh wait, hold on. I think it’s stopped working.”

Erin said that too late. The crash this time made the Players of Celum look up from across the long room. They stared at Relc as he slowly got up from his pile of splinters where he’d done a flying body slam. Erin stared at the splinters of the table and three chairs on the floor. She pointed hopefully.

“Uh, [Partial Reconstruction]?”

Nothing happened. In truth, Erin had felt that too. She’d run out of her Skill. Relc hesitated as he got up, brushing bits of wood off his scales.

“Oops.”

Mrsha paused in trying to break a chair leg and innocently hid it behind her back. Lyonette covered her face and groaned. Moore picked a large wooden splinter out of his bowl of porridge. Seborn stared at the chairs, then went back to his drink. At his table, Ksmvr raised two hands.

“Excuse me, may I have more Acid Flies?”

It was the beginning of another day at The Wandering Inn. The fact that no one even looked surprised was a sign of how far the madness had spread.



—–



Ten minutes later, a shamefaced Erin, Mrsha, and Relc had swept the wreckage of the furniture into a corner of the inn. Lyonette propped her hands on her hips.

“What have we learned?”

Erin raised a hand.

“So I can do about three tables, uh, ten roof tiles, and five chairs in one go. After that, my Skill stops working.”

“Yup. Pretty awesome. And I can break a table with my stomach.”

Relc scratched his neck, grinning. Mrsha nodded until Lyonette stared at her. The [Princess] sighed. Erin grinned sheepishly.

“Aw, come on, Lyonette. At least we know my Skill has limits! And hey! I’ll fix the table and chairs when my Skill comes back to life!”

Lyonette gave her a reproving glance and gentle head-nod to Mrsha. Don’t encourage her! But she relented with a slight smile in the end.

“It’ll save a lot of money if we just save the broken parts and let you rebuild them later. Not to mention broken windows, mugs—can it do stains too?”

“Maybe? Let’s check after this. But I bet not. It’s reconstruction, not, uh, stain-removal.”

“Good to know we still have a job, right?”

Drassi commented as she swept by with a broom, getting the last splinters. Erin laughed. Relc nodded, satisfied. Then he glanced at Erin.

“Hey, are you going to open the door to Pallass yet? Grimalkin said he had all those weights you mentioned, and I want to try them out.”

“In a bit. I want a peaceful morning. Which is why the door stays closed! Until around late morning?”

Erin looked at Lyonette for confirmation. The [Princess] nodded.

“We need to replenish our food stocks. Which means you’re cooking, Erin. Mrsha and I will go to the park in Liscor. And the Players of Celum want practice. More importantly, we can’t handle so many people all at once. So the door to Liscor stays closed. No crowds unless they come here on foot. And they’re not allowed into Pallass either—not until the sun’s three quarters of the way up!”

She pointed at Temile on stage with his [Actors] and then at the window. Erin nodded and sighed. She wanted to open the door right now, but Lyonette had a point. Two full days of the door being open to Pallass had made a small fortune for The Wandering Inn, but also a lot of work. Relc looked disappointed, but the day-staff, including Ishkr and Drassi, looked relieved at Lyonette’s pronouncement.

“You’re the boss, Lyonette. For now.”

Erin tried to look threatening. Mrsha just raced around her. The Gnoll was excited and signaled as much with her paws.

Pat chest, smile, running motion with closed paws. Then—one arm crossed, two paws folded against head to show napping. Lyonette and Erin interpreted this.

“You like being busy, but…it’s tiring?”

Mrsha nodded happily and made a thumbs-up. Erin laughed with delight.

“I understood that too! I agree, Mrsha. It’s hectic, what with the election in Liscor and Pallass and stuff. But The Wandering Inn’s never been more crowded! Which means we’re making money, right, Lyonette?”

The [Princess] had to smile at that.

“We are. And I think we can actually afford some big changes. As well as buying Mrsha some new toys. And maybe some clothes?”

The Gnoll looked excited at the former, annoyed at the latter. Erin regarded Mrsha.

“She is naked, right?”

“Gnolls don’t really care, especially in the wild, but I think Mrsha should learn to wear something. So I’ll buy her some clothes today before we get back. If that’s okay? It shouldn’t be more than a few gold coins at most.”

Lyonette looked at Erin. The [Innkeeper] nodded. Mrsha signed from below that she wasn’t interested in clothes, but the two adults ignored her. Erin ruffled her hair.

“Come on, Mrsha. Clothes are nice! You used to steal bras, remember? And t-shirts. And shoes. Don’t worry, you can get your clothes shopping done and then help out here, okay? We’re doing really well with the inn. But you know what? It can be even better.”

Mrsha and Lyonette both looked up at that. The [Princess] raised one brow, and Erin explained with a smile.

“Opening Pallass was just the first step. Now we’re really going to improve things.”

She rubbed her hands together.

“I’ve got plans. Oh yeah. Heh. Heheheheheheh.”

Her chuckle just made Mrsha laugh silently and point at Erin’s face. Lyonette covered a smile, and Erin stopped, affronted. Then she sighed.

“I can’t do a scary laugh. You know who’s great at scary laughing? Ryoka—oh. Sorry, Mrsha.”

The Gnoll cub’s face immediately fell. So did Erin’s. Lyonette gave her a reproachful glower, and the [Innkeeper] guiltily knelt. She hugged Mrsha and lifted her upright with a small grunt.

“You’re getting heavier. Hey, sorry, Mrsha. But I’m sure Ryoka’s fine. Wherever she is. We’ll find her. Soon, Mrsha. When the Halfseekers get to Invrisil, I’ll look into it, I promise. But for today? We’re going to help our friends here. Okay? Just watch a master.”

She smiled, and Mrsha’s head rose. Her tail began to wag, and Lyonette frowned at Erin suspiciously.

“I’d prefer to just make more money, Erin. If your next plan has anything like drama in it…”

“No, not like that! I’m just leveraging…assets! When we open the doors, let me know when Grimalkin comes in, okay? Or Xif. Or Rufelt and Lasica or—anyone important, okay?”

Erin’s eyes twinkled. Lyonette sighed, but smiled. Erin Solstice had a plan. And of such things was The Wandering Inn’s reputation built. So the three split up, preparing for another day full of Erin-related shenanigans. In the inn, sitting at his table, Seborn looked up, drained half his mug of water, and cursed.

“She’s late.”

“Come on, Seborn. Don’t be so angry.”

The half-Giant carefully smiled at his friend. Seborn just glared ahead as Drassi came by with a pitcher of water.

“She’s late. And this is the third day she’s been distracted.”

“Yes, but…”

Seborn glanced up at Moore. The half-Giant shrugged helplessly.

“It’s not like she doesn’t have a reason.”

“I know. But she said—”

“It’s love, Seborn.”

“It’s infatuation. She’s so busy getting wrapped up with that Dullahan that she’s forgotten about us—”

Moore’s brows drew together.

“Why are you mad? You should be happy for our friend. And it’s not like we’re sitting in squalor here. I like this inn. Don’t you?”

“We’ve been here for months, Moore. We need to get to work. Or what are we? We’re adventurers, and our Captain’s missing.”

“But if she likes him—”

The half-Giant’s voice was gentle, sympathetic, as was his nature. Seborn, on the other hand, was clearly impatient as he shook his head.

“You and I both know she can’t have that relationship forever. He’s a [Blacksmith] in Pallass. She’s going to be working in the north. At least until we reach Invrisil. And besides which, we’re on missions for weeks away. All she’s doing is having a fling, and if she really does like him—I told you. If you two want to have sex so badly, let’s find a port city. There are brothels that cater to any species.”

It was the most the Drowned Man had said in one go for a long time, and even then, only among his group. Moore blinked, but then looked slightly affronted.

“You know she actually likes him, Seborn. How long did she say it was since she last met anyone?”

“Six years. And that was a Selphid in a port-city bar. I know. I was there, and she wouldn’t shut up for three months. So what?”

The Drowned Man crossed his arms. Moore hesitated. Seborn had been in the Halfseekers with Jelaqua from the start. Even though the half-Giant had journeyed with them for years, he forgot how long the two had been in a team.

“Well, isn’t it good, then? We should be supporting her.”

“And let her get her heart broken?”

“Maughin won’t break her heart. He’s the most open-minded Dullahan I’ve met.”

Seborn hesitated.

“Even if he is, so what? They can’t be together.”

“Why not?”

Moore gave him a deep frown over his bowl. Seborn grumbled under his breath.

“It’s a distraction. We should be working.”

“We earned a lot of money. Doesn’t Jelaqua deserve happiness? This is the first non-Selphid who’s ever really been serious about her. You know how rare that is. Especially for someone from Baleros! He’s from her home, Seborn. This is special.”

“It’s asinine. Every time she gets back here, she talks about sex, holding hands in public, or how nice he is. They’re lovebirds. He’s forging her plate armor. It’s disgusting.”

“I think it’s beautiful. I…I wish I had that.”

Moore looked dreamy, but the longing tone in his voice rang clear to his friend. Seborn grunted. It was a mark of his friendship with Moore that he bit his tongue on the first six replies. After a moment, he just looked at Moore again.

“I keep telling you to visit a brothel. They have Selphids. Or sturdy women. Or Skills. They know what they’re about. You’re not going to hurt anyone.”

“I know. You’ve said. But I mean, how many people like me are…”

Moore’s normally open face closed up. The Drowned Man sighed.

“They’re used to all sorts of customers. Me. Jelaqua. Even half-Giants. No one’s going to make fun of you. And it’ll stop you moping. Come to think of it, it would’ve stopped Jelaqua from being obsessed with this Dullahan. Just do what you need to do and stop focusing on it.”

“It’s not like that. I want to find someone I can like. Or love. I don’t want to pay for that, Seborn.”

The half-Giant [Green Mage] looked reproachfully at his friend. Seborn rolled his eyes.

“You wouldn’t say that if you’d actually done it. This is why we need new teammates. You, Jelaqua, Halassia—you were all romantics.”

The mention of their old friend made Moore blink. But then he smiled. Sadly, yes, but without the tension there had used to be. They could talk about the past now. The half-Giant shrugged, a bit defensive.

“So what if we are? Isn’t that why the Halfseekers were founded? We’re chasing a dream, Seborn. Let Jelaqua have her time with Maughin. He’s giving her gifts. They’re walking together. Talking. Maybe they’ll have to split when we go to Invrisil. Or maybe they’ll meet each other. Erin does have her door. And—who knows?”

The half-Giant looked towards the closed door, his eyes gentle. Seborn shook his head. Moore was romantic. Seborn was not. But it seemed to him—he looked up at Moore and thought his friend was hiding his true feelings well. Underneath his support of Jelaqua, there was more than a little envy. Jealousy, even. Seborn leaned across the table and poked Moore.

“I know you don’t like the idea. But you’re, what, thirty-one? I’m not having you sulk on the road if Jelaqua comes back smiling. Why do you keep waiting for someone to fall in love with you? There was that girl in Wales. That woman in Invrisil. That [Mage] from Wistram—just end it already. What’s the matter with buying—”

He stopped, because Moore seemed truly hurt. The half-Giant shuffled and turned away from Seborn, embarrassed.

“It matters to me, Seborn.”

That was that. The Drowned Man exhaled slowly and shook his head. He thought of Jelaqua last night, clinging to Maughin like a girl with her first love—which was what this was in some ways. And Moore, too afraid to smile at the women he fell in love with, to take a plunge. The Drowned Man sighed. The Halfseekers. Gold-rank adventurers and veterans in combat and rookie [Sailors] on the seas of romance. He stood up after a second.

“Come on. Let’s walk with that damn wagon for today. The donkeys are still hitched to it, but it’s only a matter of time before a [Thief] or monster sniffs around them.”

Moore considered this, and he relaxed slightly.

“Okay. Maybe we can find a stable for them. And come back tonight? I do want to have dinner with Mrsha.”

Seborn nodded without comment. The half-Giant doted on the Gnoll child. The Drowned Man walked towards the door, looking for Erin so they could warn her they were about to drain the mana from it. He sighed.

“At least we don’t have to listen to Jelaqua or wait for her to come back. I don’t need to hear Jelaqua talking about having sex or sitting on that Dullahan’s lap if they come back.”

Moore chuckled a bit.

“I’ll admit, she is graphic. Uh—Seborn?”

“Yes?”

“Is what she does—is that entirely—normal?”

The half-Giant blushed fiercely. Seborn looked up at him and wished he were miles away. On a boat. Fighting giant squid at sea was easier than this.

“No. Don’t listen to what she talks about. And don’t try it. Ever. Jelaqua’s a Selphid. Bodies are disposable. And this is probably tame for her. You don’t want to know what two Selphids do for fun.”

Moore nodded, his face and ears bright red. He and Seborn headed for the door, and the Drowned Man sighed. It was long-suffering, and for some reason, when Yvlon, sitting at her table, heard it, she felt a strange sense of kinship. Seborn adjusted the door, put his hand on it, and then heard Moore’s voice as the half-Giant leaned down and whispered.

“…So what do they do?”



—–



Four hundred miles south of the inn, Jelaqua Ivirith was humming as she tried to make breakfast. The large room and kitchen she was working in were strangely oversized for her, and indeed, the building was one of the more expensive buildings on the ninth floor. But then, the owner needed the space, and he was the best or second-best [Blacksmith] in Pallass, so it had been customized for him.

The apartment was decorated in the Dullahan style with the typical mix of refined station, showing your rank without being ostentatious about it. And since Maughin was of very high rank in the Dullahan community and a [Blacksmith] himself—they were prized in Dullahan culture—he could flaunt like no one’s business.

He had two tapestries from Baleros on the walls, one showing the Iron Vanguard in a pitched sea battle, the other of some magnificent view from Baleros. It made Jelaqua ache for home. There was a marble plinth with a carved statuette of Xol of Ingrilt, appropriate given Maughin’s own size—far larger than the average Dullahan but shorter than a typical War Walker; a custom-forged battleaxe; a shelf full of books, made twice as large for him to read; a gloriously artistic platform showcasing the Dullahan’s pottery collection—the apartment was rich.

Jelaqua, looking into the pantries, saw that each one was enchanted with a preservation spell. She whisked together some eggs, poured them into a pan over a stove which had a magical fire spell that Erin would have loved to have, and added some bacon. Her taste buds, still fresh in this particular corpse, watered at the thought of the omelette. But that was only half of what Jelaqua was working on. She was also making a sandwich.

Just a sandwich. The Selphid was well aware of her cooking Skills, but some of the omelette was going to go between some very fine fresh bread, some cheese—uh, what else did you put into sandwiches? She panicked a bit as she tried to remember. Adventurers usually went for sustenance over taste, and Jelaqua often had a body incapable of tasting anything. For a second, she thought about going to Erin’s inn for help, but she caught herself.

“No, no. I’ve got this. You put…meat into sandwiches. Meat. Does he have bananas? Bananas are tasty. And hey—if he doesn’t like it—”

She hesitated. Jelaqua looked around Maughin’s apartment and stared at her hands. She was wearing a Drake’s body. And she was…well, she wasn’t not about to go and deliver a lunch to Maughin, who was working at the forge. And maybe stick around with him. And when he finished early, they’d, oh, go to Erin’s inn maybe. Or he’d show her more of Pallass.

“This is a thing, right? This is happening?”

Jelaqua pinched herself. She felt nothing, which meant she wasn’t dreaming. The Selphid looked around, then craned her neck to see the ruffled bed sheets. She remembered last night and blushed orange.

“This is really happening?”

The Selphid touched her warm cheeks. She was so giddy she didn’t realize the eggs were burning. Then she yelped and began scraping the pan.

A few minutes later, Jelaqua nervously ate her eggs, staring at the vases. She was muttering to herself.

“Vases. He’s got good taste in them. I like pottery. I can like pottery. And we have lots in common. Tons! He’s from Baleros, I’m from Baleros—and we’re both into weapons…he really likes my personality. Aha.”

She laughed and blushed again. Happily, her tail wagging in her Drake body, the Selphid went back to preparing a lunch for Maughin. In the distance, she could hear the distant ringing of hammers through an open window. The forges weren’t far from Maughin’s home for convenience, and as the Selphid sighed and leaned on the window, she imagined it was Maughin’s hammer she was hearing.

She was not wrong. In his forge, Maughin was bending steel with his hammer, working faster and harder than his apprentices or fellow [Smiths] had seen him work in a long time. To say he was motivated didn’t capture the smile on the Dullahan’s lips or the way his head hummed as his body worked independent of it. Two of his Dullahan apprentices traded looks as they worked under his supervision.

Of course, it was a scandal in the Dullahan community. A Selphid and a Dullahan? It was only because this was Pallass and not Baleros that this could happen. Normally, a higher-ranking Dullahan would be called in to address the situation with Maughin, and this would all be settled. Or if not, there would be trouble.

But in Pallass, who would call Maughin out? The Dullahan community was small enough as it was, and there were Dullahans who’d had relationships with Gnolls and Drakes, and that had been an issue in years past. So no one brought it up. Besides, Jelaqua was a Gold-rank adventurer. That counted for something.

It was still disgusting. Bealt, the [Farrier], two Drake [Smiths], and Pelt all glowered when Jelaqua appeared, practically skipping over to Maughin with a lunch ready and made for him. And the other smiths, glowering in their forges, watched as Maughin stopped work to flirt with the Selphid. Disgusting! Completely inappropriate for this hour.

Even married [Smiths] seldom got a fresh lunch hand-delivered. Let alone had a dreamy-eyed girl—or boy in the case of female [Smiths]—watching and keeping his head company at work.

That was only the first few hours of the day. The repulsive flirting would go on, but that wasn’t really the point of the day. It was just worth mentioning that not until nine hours later would Jelaqua even recall her teammates. And when she guiltily returned to the inn, she would thank the stars that she had decided to come to the city of Liscor and stayed at The Wandering Inn. Because it had delivered her happiness. Short-lived or long, she was holding onto it.



—–



And then there was Numbtongue. He got up late for once. Late enough that Lyonette had come back with Mrsha from her morning trip. The Hobgoblin walked downstairs, and, to his surprise, found the inn had yet to be filled with more than a smattering of guests. He found out why when he poked his head into the kitchen and found Erin hard at work.

“We’re preparing for a rush! Tons of stuff to sell! And I’m going to totally work some magic! In a metaphorical sense. Hey, are the Horns still here?”

Numbtongue checked. He saw Ceria and Pisces, both of whom looked hung over. Yvlon and Ksmvr were gone. That meant they were between jobs at Liscor’s or Celum’s guilds, and the two [Warriors] were working out while the [Mages] studied magic or, as Numbtongue saw it, lazed about. He nodded.

“Yup.”

“Great.”

Erin grinned what Numbtongue now thought of as her calculating grin. She was tossing a pizza, but she stopped long enough to pull some food out for him.

“What do you want for breakfast, Numbtongue? A steak? Uh—what’s this? Ooh! Is that pickled fish? Um, spaghetti and meatballs?”

Numbtongue’s mouth watered. Part of him wanted to say ‘everything’, but he thought about it and pointed.

“Fish.”

“You like fish, huh?”

The [Bard] nodded. He let Erin serve him some wet slices of fish into a bowl. She wrinkled her nose at the breakfast, but Numbtongue happily began eating with his fingers until Erin slapped at them.

“Get a fork! And eat at a table! Drassi can get you a drink. She’s on bar duty.”

The Hobgoblin nodded and wandered out into the common room. He got a drink himself at the bar, sat down, and began to eat. After a second, he stared at his bowl.

“Yesterday, I leveled up.”

He stared at his claws and remembered the events of last night. They hit him again. [Goblin Soulbard]. He reached for a forearm and made to pinch himself, then closed his hand. Lyonette, lugging in groceries with Mrsha, opened the door just in time to see Numbtongue make a fist and wallop himself as hard as he could in the face.

“Numbtongue! What are you doing?”

Mrsha abandoned her bag to dash over. She stared at Numbtongue as he picked himself off the floor. Numbtongue rubbed at his bruised cheek and shrugged.

“Just making sure. Hi, Lyonette. Morning, Mrsha.”

Mrsha waved at him. The Hobgoblin nodded and sat back down. Lyonette stared at him, opened her mouth, and then pointed.

“Okay, let’s bring the food to the kitchen! Come on, Mrsha!”

As they went, Numbtongue stared at his claws again. They clenched into fists as he closed his eyes.

[Soulbard]. That was a purpose in itself. But more than that. More, oh so much more. It was—it wasn’t justice. It wasn’t enough for all the dead. But for one Goblin? He thought about his new Skill.

[A Minute, Reborn]. It was a Skill with serious limitations. But the utility! The use! Numbtongue knew he should be running tests to see how many times he could use it per day. Or figure out how best to use it. In the mines, perhaps? Could Pyrite locate more gemstones with his Skills? Could he use Skills?

But in this moment, there was only one thought Numbtongue had. He stared down at the bowl of half-eaten fish as Mrsha reappeared out of the kitchen and padded over to him. It was cold fish and without any other preparation. But it was good. It was tasty. Right now, all that was in Numbtongue’s heart was this. He closed his eyes.



—–



Mrsha, who had been padding over to check on Numbtongue and maybe filch some of his breakfast, saw the Hobgoblin change. No one else noticed, but Mrsha had known Numbtongue for a while. And she had keen eyes, a sensitive nose. She saw his posture change, his head snap up and look around. From body language to the look in his eyes—even his voice was suddenly, strangely, different. The Gnoll froze in alarm as the Hobgoblin glanced up, looked at his bowl, and grunted.

“Hrm.”

Then he began to eat. With one clawed hand, he picked out a piece of fish and ate it, bones and all. Mrsha heard him casually grinding the bones down, chomping through them without any problem. He grunted in satisfaction as, with his other hand, he fished around in a pouch by his side. Curiously, not so much afraid as wary, Mrsha crept closer. She had seen Numbtongue do this yesterday. And he had explained it. Even told Erin what, who this was. He’d called the strange Goblin—

Pyrite. As Mrsha slunk up to the table, one of the Hobgoblin’s eyes swung down towards her. She froze. She’d been using her [Natural Concealment] Skill, which normally fooled even Numbtongue until she was closer! But this Hob saw her at once. He blinked at her, then smiled. With one hand, he kept eating. And with the other, he pulled something out of his pouch and placed it on the table.

“Hm. Good fish. Not enough time to go mining. Go later.”

That was all he said. Mrsha, emboldened, leapt onto a chair and stared at the Hob. He nodded at her.

“Mrsha.”

She bobbed her head cautiously and pointed at him. Pyrite smiled back amiably. As he ate another piece of fish, he gestured at something on the table. Mrsha stared at the lump he’d placed there. She stared and then recognized the slightly transparent rock.

“Quartz. Smokey.”

The Hobgoblin nodded judiciously. His nod quality seemed higher than Mrsha’s, and she tried to copy how he was doing it. It was a lump of quartz, the kind that you could find all over the Floodplains or near the High Passes. Not too valuable; Mrsha liked the look of the stone with the lattice caught in it that gave it the dark brown appearance, but she knew it wasn’t worth much. To a low-level jeweler, maybe. But not to [Mages], who valued pure quartz for its magic-holding properties as a weak enchantment material.

The Stone Spears tribe wouldn’t mine this unless they had nothing better. That was Mrsha’s expert opinion as a Gnoll of her tribe. But Pyrite, about twenty seconds into his minute, had other plans. The Hobgoblin put another piece of fish into his mouth, grunting with satisfaction. Chewing, he reached for the quartz. He didn’t use a tool or do anything special; his claws just dug into the rock and began slicing pieces off it as if it were soft butter!

Mrsha’s eyes widened in amazement. Pieces of rock flew and dust drifted down as the Hobgoblin’s claws blurred against the quartz, breaking it down, molding it, then smoothing the stone, carving it until it was one smooth sphere. In less than thirty seconds, he’d created a sphere. A perfect little marble, showcasing the quartz, transparent brown and grey, a beautiful bauble. Pyrite winked as Mrsha’s eyes went round. He swallowed his mouthful and spoke.

“Good food. Tell Numbtongue thanks. Here.”

He dipped the marble in the cup and withdrew the gleaming orb of stone. Then, casually, he rolled it towards Mrsha. The Gnoll clasped her paws around the beautiful marble and lifted it up, admiring it. She heard a sigh and looked up. When she did, Numbtongue was sitting in his chair, blinking at Mrsha, a piece of fish in his claw.

The Gnoll and Hobgoblin looked at each other in silence. Mrsha stared at Numbtongue as he blinked and then burped fishily. Hesitantly, she offered the marble to him. The Hobgoblin paused and took it. He stared at the smooth surface and at the crumbs of quartz on the table. He whistled.

“[Rock Polishing]. And [Miner’s Claws].”

He offered it back to Mrsha. The Gnoll took the bauble carefully. Numbtongue smiled, and it was bitter and sad and happy at the same time.

“He liked the fish.”

Mrsha nodded. The two sat together like that until Lyonette came out of her kitchen, dusting her hands. She eyed the rock dust on the table with a frown as she came over.

“Are you making a mess, Numbtongue? Or is it Mrsha? You know, someone has to clean—what is that?”

She blinked as Mrsha rolled the quartz marble on the floor. The [Princess] stared at the shiny little plaything, and Numbtongue and Mrsha exchanged a glance. Both turned to Lyonette and shrugged. Numbtongue pointed at the quartz dust on the table.

“Not me. Pyrite did it.”

“Who?”

The Hobgoblin’s smile was wide. Because Pyrite was dead. But at least—yes, at least, Numbtongue could still treat him to a meal. And he’d liked meeting Mrsha too.



—–



A budding relationship. A Goblin with a class. And an [Innkeeper] with a new Skill. Erin rubbed her hands together gleefully, ignorant of some of the events in her inn, but aware of more than she let on. Relc was happily chatting to her as her staff readied the inn for the influx from Pallass. It was already filling with people from Liscor. Not Krshia, Elirr, Raekea, or any of the Gnolls on the campaign trail, but Selys was here and practically aglow with triumph.

“Your inn’s really making an impact, Erin. Those Pallassian [Senators] are giving Krshia their backing—and not Lism! He still has Pallass’ support, but there are actually important Gnolls coming to talk on Krshia’s behalf, and they’re brilliant at speaking! Of course, they have the class. And Krshia can just point to you when Lism tries to rant about Humans and foreigners being bad for Liscor. You did it!”

“Hey, I just got people together. They did the rest. Thank Rufelt and Lasica—they’ll be here to lend some support tonight. And this is good for Pallass’ election too!”

Erin replied modestly, but she felt a surge of pride seeing Selys’ face. Not to mention the people of Liscor who’d come here to talk with people from Pallass or just see what her inn was doing next. She looked around for Lyonette. And today she was going to make it even better for her other friends!

“Hey, Lyonette! Let’s open the door to Pallass already!”

Lyonette looked up. She had been playing a game of rolling a little marble on the ground with Mrsha. The shiny stone caught Erin’s eye, and she frowned—where had Mrsha gotten that?—but Lyonette nodded, and Erin focused on the door. Time to go to work. She swung it open, and a roar of noise enveloped her.

“Hey! Can I get a pizza with cheese in the crusts? And extra salami on top? No one’s copied that yet!”

“Where’s the play? Stop pushing! Is there a new one on? Hey, will those [Actors] come to Pallass?”

“Make way, people! [Senator] coming through!”

“I’m on the list to go to Liscor! Hey! Let me through! I’m on today’s list! I have proof and everything!”

A chorus of voices, angry, happy, expectant, rushed over Selys and Erin. The Drake recoiled. Erin beamed. She saw [Guardsman] Kel holding a crowd back with two other members of Pallass’ Watch as those on the short list for entry trooped through the doorway.

There was even a [Mage] to recharge the door. Two, in fact. Grimalkin strode through the door, bypassing a [Senator] and Xif. Erin waved at him as he entered.

“Grimalkin! Hey! Great to see you! Good morning! Can I get you anything to eat? To drink?”

“Miss Erin.”

The [Sinew Magus] nodded formally at Erin and gazed around the inn. His eyes focused on Relc like a laser beam. The Drake [Guardsman] was already getting up.

“Yo, Grimalkin! Are the weights done?”

Grimalkin grinned with genuine pleasure as he reached out. He and Relc clasped forearms, and Selys and Erin, standing back, saw their muscles tense as they exchanged the kind of greeting only two exceptionally muscular people could. Relc laughed, and Grimalkin nodded.

“I got the last weights done yesterday. Barbells, weight bars—even the new one Miss Erin mentioned to me.”

“Ooh! The squiggle bar?”

Erin’s eyes widened. Grimalkin nodded and reached for a bag of holding. He produced a shorter bar than the customary bench press bar that Erin was familiar with. But she recognized the EZ-bar from the customary, unique bend in the frame that meant you were holding it at an angle as you lifted. Relc chortled as he examined it.

“That’s weird. I like it! Hey, how many weights do you have?”

“Plenty. Any number of pounds—and I ordered fifty-pound weights made of lead. The [Smiths] should be finishing them any time now—actually, I see them now. Apprentice Ferkr! Don’t lollygag over there!”

Grimalkin turned and roared into the doorway to Pallass. He strode back into the crowd and emerged half-carrying a smaller Gnoll. Erin blinked. It was a female Gnoll! She was a bit shorter than Grimalkin, but she seemed a lot smaller because she was nowhere near as muscly. With that said, she probably had twice as much muscle definition as Erin. It was just that even Relc looked less huge next to Grimalkin.

“Sorry about that. Ferkr, the weights?”

Grimalkin deposited the Gnoll on the ground. Ferkr jumped. Nervously, the Gnoll held up a bag of holding. Grimalkin took it, pulled out some huge rounded weights with one hand, and tossed them at Relc. The [Guardsman], not to be outdone, caught them and slotted them onto the bar until it was two hundred pounds heavier. Then he began lifting it up and down.

“Oh yeah! This feels different! Hey, Erin, these things are great! Tons of fun!”

He tried lifting the bar one-handed, but that was too much even for Relc. Swearing, Relc caught the bar, and Erin and Selys decided to step back. Ferkr just stared around at the inn, then jumped as Grimalkin addressed her.

“Ferkr, are the other apprentices training?”

“Uh, yes, Magus Grimalkin! They’re doing six laps as you ordered.”

Grimalkin grunted in disgust.

“And doing it slow, no doubt. Well, I’ll put them on the weights soon enough. Sergeant Relc! Don’t twist your arms like that! You could injure yourself. That’s two hundred and some pounds you’re swinging around; proper posture is key!”

He turned to Relc, who was trying to swing the entire weights bar like a bat. Relc paused, and Erin, eying the weights and Relc, decided to step in.

“Why don’t you two do your weights stuff over there, Grimalkin? And hey! Who’s this? One of your apprentices?”

She looked at Ferkr. The female Gnoll jumped and bowed.

“That’s right, Miss Human. I’m—uh—”

Grimalkin grabbed the EZ-bar from Relc and held it out to Ferkr.

“This is Ferkr, Miss Erin. One of my apprentices. The only Gnoll apprentice I’ve ever had, in fact. She’s attempting to become a [Mage]. Which I commend! But she’s far too nervous. Ferkr, take this. Careful—it’s two hundred pounds.”

He waited until the female Gnoll had a grip on it before letting go. Erin winced, expecting Ferkr to stumble or drop the bar under the weight, but to her amazement, the Gnoll only grunted and the bar dipped a fraction before she held it at a resting position. Grimalkin nodded, and Erin stared.

“Wait, that’s way too heavy for her!”

“A hundred pounds too heavy, perhaps. Although with magic she could manage a hundred and fifty. How does it feel, Ferkr?”

“Heavy, sir!”

The Gnoll’s voice was strained, but she was keeping the bar up. Grimalkin nodded. He pulled fifty pounds off each end.

“Give it a try now. Try—three lifts.”

Slowly, exhaling hard, the younger Gnoll did just that. Erin’s and Selys’ jaws dropped as they saw her furry forearms strain and then lift. Once, twice—she was struggling on the third one. Grimalkin barked.

“Push, Ferkr! I want those arms to come up! Yes, yes—”

The third curl came with a growl from Ferkr as her arms shook. Grimalkin plucked the bar off her and slapped her on the back. She staggered and nearly fell over.

“Excellent! That’s what I want to see! And you can feel the muscles working, can’t you, Ferkr? That’s what Miss Solstice calls a maximum repetition. A few of those push your limit while working at lower weights is safer and builds the muscle you want. I imagine these bars can support enough weight to test anyone but Sergeant Relc and I.”

“Yeah. That bar’s harder than the straight one.”

Relc grinned as he pointed at the EZ-bar. Erin just gaped at Grimalkin. Then she looked at Ferkr.

“You’re strong! Wow, are all your apprentices like that? Hi, I’m Erin, by the way.”

She held out a hand, and Ferkr timidly shook it. Grimalkin just snorted.

“Gnolls are stronger than Humans. No—there’s less gender imbalance for their species when it comes to musculature. Historically, female Gnolls led hunting packs. And Ferkr is my apprentice—of course, she’s stronger than normal! As I said, my first Gnoll [Mage] apprentice. I have high expectations of her, but she has to grow some testicles! Perhaps meeting you will help in that regard, Miss Erin.”

He looked sternly at Ferkr, and the Gnoll blushed under her fur. Erin smiled sympathetically at the Gnoll girl, but Selys, who’d been listening in to the conversation while waiting for the last of the Gnolls to come in, blinked.

“Wait a second. I thought Gnolls couldn’t be [Mages]. Isn’t that what they say at Wistram?”

“Yeah. Hold on, that’s what I heard too.”

Relc eyed Ferkr, confused. Ferkr looked up, and her mouth opened, but Grimalkin spoke first.

“Hah! I don’t know how that narrative spread, but it’s completely false. Unfortunately, it’s so widespread that Gnolls don’t become [Mages]! Can you imagine? There are countless precedents in history of Gnoll [Mages]—true, their race tends towards [Shamanism], but that’s just proof they can handle magic! Somehow some idiot started the rumor at Wistram, and now Gnolls don’t believe they can become [Mages]—so many don’t! It’s one of those popular narratives that impedes an entire race’s magical potential. Disgraceful!”

He barked the word right over Ferkr’s ear, and she winced. So did Erin—Grimalkin delivered everything at a shout or roar. She looked over her shoulder at Temile on stage, and the [Stage Manager] waved his arms at her in a ‘go away, please’ kind of signal.

“Uh, yeah. About that—why don’t we take this outside? Grimalkin, I love that you’re here, and I want to talk with you. But there’s other people coming through. Ooh—Selys! Your guests are all here!”

“I see that. Talk to you later, Erin!”

Selys slipped away and trotted towards the Gnolls ready to help Krshia. Grimalkin looked around and then at Ferkr and Relc. Some of the guests at the nearby tables glared at the muscle [Mage] as they held their hands over their ears. Grimalkin returned the glares with an impervious glance, but he did nod.

“Hm. This is crowded. Let’s take this outside. Sergeant Relc, Ferkr, I want to do some tests so I can see what the right posture is for all of this. I have a bench in my bag of holding, and Miss Solstice can show us some grips.”

“Awesome. And hey—good luck, Miss Ferkr! I hope you can get that [Mage] class!”

Relc rubbed his claws together as he started for the doors. Grimalkin raised his eyebrows.

“Hope? What do you mean? She’s already a [Mage]. Level 6.”

Relc stopped in his tracks. He stared at Grimalkin, then at Ferkr. The Gnoll was smiling.

“What? No. Really?”

“That’s r—”

“That’s right. A Level 6 [Mage]. I told you it was just a myth. She’s got a long way to go to pass my classes, but she works harder than half my Drake and Dullahan slackers. I have every hope that she’ll head to this Meeting of the Tribes the Gnolls are having and put an end to this nonsense. I could use more Gnoll apprentices. They have a foundation of muscle and exercise in the plains that many Drakes lack.”

Grimalkin nodded. He strode past Relc, holding the weights bar. The [Guardsman] gaped at Ferkr. She just smiled and followed her master out the door. So went the Muscle Mage of Pallass. And Erin, waving in Xif and Rufelt and Lasica, who’d come early, narrowed her eyes and tried to chuckle evilly. She failed.



—–



The inn was crowded. People were coming in, including the best [Alchemist] in the city, Xif. Rufelt and Lasica, a power couple, even Watch Captain Venim was hanging around the door on Pallass’ side, keeping order. It was as busy as yesterday! But Erin was content to let the chaos be chaos. She had a purpose, so she headed right back to Grimalkin, who was outdoors. Only one thing stopped her.

Octavia. Erin found the [Alchemist] sitting at a table in the corner, nursing a drink and staring around at the filled inn with wide eyes. Erin stopped at her table guiltily. She’d forgotten Octavia was here. The [Alchemist] hadn’t come down for breakfast; it had only been a day since Erin had marshaled Grimalkin, Relc, and the others to help her after Numbtongue and Yellow Splatters had beaten down the [Thugs] extorting her. She’d put Octavia up in one of her rooms, but in all the fuss, she’d forgotten the Stitch-girl existed.

Until now. Erin made her way to Octavia and smiled.

“Hey, Octavia—how’s it going? Sorry I didn’t check in on you this morning. You, uh, got breakfast?”

The [Alchemist] jumped. She looked up at Erin and smiled as she pushed a dreadlock back. Her dark skin was still pale, and she was…subdued. Normal Octavia was a chatterbox and a sales magnet. This Octavia was just quiet.

“No problem, Erin. I appreciate you putting me up. Really. Your inn’s…full. It’s open to Pallass? That’s amazing!”

“Yup! We’re selling a lot! And there are tons of people! Hey! We could get some of them to check out your shop later! But don’t go around making deals right now!”

Erin laughed. Octavia didn’t. She shook her head.

“I won’t. I learned my lesson already. Don’t worry about me, Erin.”

The [Innkeeper]’s face fell. That really wasn’t normal Octavia at all. She hesitated and then scanned the room for someone. She spotted Xif watching a play. Good, he was here and interested in the [Actors]. She’d have had to get him otherwise.

“Hey, don’t worry about it. Look, I feel awful about what happened. We’ll get your shop up and running and see about guarding it or something—just give me a little bit! You sit back and have something to eat and drink! On the house! There’s a play on—I’ll be back soon, okay?”

Octavia just nodded quietly. Erin frowned, worried, and pushed Octavia up her to-help list. But right now, she had only one target in mind. And she found him outside pumping iron and steel.

“Grimalkin!”

The Drake was watching Relc lift the weights bar, having him adjust his hands and comment on how hard it was. To the side, Ferkr was doing curl-ups with the barbells Grimalkin had ordered. Erin saw Ferkr was doing it from various postures. She stopped, impressed. Grimalkin looked exactly like a gym instructor, albeit even huger than they were. And while Relc had poor posture—he just seemed to enjoy the fun of weight lifting—Grimalkin and Ferkr both had perfect form.

“Ah, Miss Solstice. You’re here. Good. Can you tell me what the proper technique is for these weights? I think we have the standard down, but any unique positions or lifts would be appreciated. I was interested to see those squats and lunges you showed me. Anything you could add would be appreciated; I’m making a routine. I want to be able to use these weights to train every muscle group possible. Arms, legs, and the core you mentioned.”

Grimalkin turned immediately to Erin, as serious as could be. Erin blinked, but she nodded.

“Sure! I don’t know everything…or much, because I didn’t really work out, but I remember some things. Uh, a lunge—can I use the bar without weights? Thanks. A lunge looks like this, I think. And I saw a dude put a weight on his chest and do sit-ups with it once—”

The muscle [Mage] snapped his claws.

“Of course! Keep going, keep going.”

He watched as Erin clumsily showed him all the lifts she knew, then took the bar, added some weights, and executed flawless versions of her clumsy demonstrations before letting Relc and Ferkr try.

The [Sinew Magus] seemed to know what muscles each workout affected almost instinctively. Erin supposed that was appropriate given his class, but she was very impressed nonetheless. After nearly half an hour of running through exercises, Erin wiped off sweat from her brow and grinned at Grimalkin.

“Hey! That was a workout! And I was just showing you how to do stuff! This’ll be great for your classes, huh?”

“My classes and Pallass’ army if I have my way.”

Grimalkin gave Erin an authoritative nod, which bothered her a tiny bit. She coughed.

“Well, yeah. But you don’t have to do that with the entire army, right? I mean, you’re just going to propose it—”

Ferkr looked up, blinking in surprise as she did a deadlift with Relc watching. Grimalkin’s brows shot up as well.

“Propose it? Miss Erin, I don’t think you understand. I just have to come up with a proper regimen and put in the proper paperwork. Then the [Soldiers] will be working out with these weights.”

Erin blinked.

“Wait—but isn’t that for, like, [Generals] to decide? Or [Strategists]?”

“Perhaps in other cities. But I’ve established myself as the expert in the field of fitness and training. If a Pallassian [General] wants to argue with me, I’ll happily slap sense into their skull. I know my business, and I do have a formal rank.”

Grimalkin folded his arms. Erin gaped at him, but Relc chortled.

“What’s the surprise, Erin? Grimalkin’s Pallass’ best [Mage]! Right? I bet he’s fought in the army—they’ve definitely tried to conscript him. If he’s not on bad terms with the army, they’ll give him a rank. Otherwise, he has to take orders from every two-copper [Lieutenant]. That’s how Drakes do these things.”

“Exactly.”

The [Sinew Magus] nodded. Erin gulped. Introducing weights to an entire Walled City’s army? Okay, that wasn’t part of the plan, but…she grinned weakly at Grimalkin.

“Well, that’s just great. I, uh, I’m glad I could help out!”

“Of course. And I’m delighted for the aid you’ve given me, Miss Erin. Truly. I’ll repay you for all this information—no, for revolutionizing fitness in Pallass!—as soon as I can ascertain how much this is all worth. I will repay my dues. But I’ve taken three days out of my schedule, and I think it’s time to get down to the business of trialing these weights on my students. Ferkr, pack up. We’re heading back to Pallass. Sergeant Relc, thank you for your help.”

“Aw, you’re packing up already? And it’s Relc, not Sergeant. I quit the army. Can I keep a barbell at least?”

Relc whined as Ferkr obediently began packing the weights into her bag of holding. Grimalkin smiled.

“I’m afraid not. But I’ll invite you to the first weights…room? Weights arena? Ah, what did you call it, Miss Erin? Gymnasium. I’ll certainly invite you over. And to give a demonstration of real strength to my apprentices!”

He shook Relc’s hand briskly and tossed one of the heavier weights into his own bag of holding. Erin stared at him in horror.

“You’re going back? Already?”

“That’s right. We’ve gotten the exercises down—unless you’ve recalled some more? I must leave a message at the [Mage]’s Guild. Miss Solstice, if you have any more details on the weights or new techniques, send me a [Message] and I will pay for sending and receiving!”

Grimalkin turned eagerly back to Erin. She hesitated.

“No…but hold on! The day’s just getting started! Why don’t you come in? Have a drink? I have fresh pizza, milkshakes—the play’s on! Your apprentice should really see it!”

Ferkr perked up her ears at all the new and exciting words, but Grimalkin just grimaced.

“I suppose I could look around. What did you say you made? A milk…?”

Erin smiled in relief and rushed back into the inn. She grabbed a milkshake that Ishkr was bringing around on trays and rushed it over to Grimalkin.

“And they’re doing Pygmalion on stage! Look! They’re singing and—”

“Shh!”

A furious crowd shushed her. Erin lowered her voice and meekly stepped to the back of the room. Grimalkin sniffed the milkshake and tasted it with a forked tongue.

“Sugar and milk. Cold. I can see this being used to build fat if I was emaciated. But otherwise? Don’t drink it, Ferkr.”

He shook his head, and Ferkr drooped as she sniffed hers. Relc looked delighted.

“Ooh, if you don’t want it, I’ll take it!”

Grimalkin silently passed his drink to Relc, and the [Sergeant] took a gulp and savored his. Erin hesitated as well. Grimalkin was staring at the play, listening to the Drake actress—being lectured by a furious Dr. Higgins played by a Gnoll—try to imitate a British accent. That alone was hilarious on a number of levels, but Grimalkin just nodded once.

“I see. I see.”

“Numbtongue’s also going to perform later. And, uh, there’s Liscor as well! The Antinium are building the inn—I can get you pizza, drinks—look, Rufelt’s helping with the bar! Come on, take a seat!”

Erin was looking at the door to Pallass. She needed to turn it to Celum for a tiny bit, and she was dreading the fight, but getting Grimalkin relaxed came first. But the [Sinew Magus] just kept looking around, and then—he shook his head.

“Mhm. Fascinating. Plays. Food. Unhealthy food. Hobgoblin. I can see dismantling organized crime in Celum. That was entertaining. As for the rest—do you have any more weights to show me?”

He turned brusquely to Erin. The [Innkeeper] wavered, caught off-guard. She looked around her inn.

“N-no?”

“Excellent. Then I’m done here. Goodbye.”

Grimalkin strode towards the door, beckoning Ferkr, who was entranced by the display. Erin ran after him, panicked. This wasn’t part of the plan!

“Wait! Wait, wait—you can’t leave! Stay and relax a bit!”

Grimalkin paused, sighed, and turned back to Erin. He wasn’t unfriendly—just as straightforward as ever. He didn’t mince words as he gestured at the door to Pallass.

“It was quite fun to visit your inn these last few days, Miss Erin. I won’t deny that. But I have work to do. You’ve given me the chance to redefine how [Soldiers] and [Warriors] across the Walled Cities—perhaps even the world—will train. I’d prefer to get to that.”

“Argh—okay, but—stay for just half an hour! No, ten minutes! Your apprentice deserves a break, doesn’t she?”

Erin pleaded with Grimalkin. The Drake hesitated and looked at Erin, then at Ferkr, who looked pleadingly at him, and sighed.

“I suppose ten minutes wouldn’t be undue. Ferkr, by all means, enjoy yourself. And we can take one of those…pizzas back with us. A single slice wouldn’t hurt. But that grease!”

He shuddered. Erin breathed out in relief.

“Great. I’ll just—uh, I just remembered I had to do something. In the door. Don’t go anywhere!”

She rushed past Grimalkin. He frowned after her as Erin ran to the door to Pallas and, to the watching crowd’s outrage, slammed it and turned it to Celum. She opened the door and shouted.

“Lyonette! Check in ten minutes! I need to go to the Runner’s Guild! Oh, please be there, please be there—”

She rushed out, and a moment later, the door opened and a roar of fury from Pallass echoed in the inn. The [Actors] on stage dutifully recreated the scene, and all was placid. Grimalkin watched the play with Relc commentating next to him. It wasn’t that he wasn’t interested in the performance—it was just that he had better things to do. Ferkr meanwhile was grabbing and eating as much food as possible, savoring Erin’s free food.

Ten minutes later, Lyonette checked the door to Celum, prompting another brief intermission, and a panting Erin was back. Grimalkin glanced up as Erin and a second Human entered the inn. No—two additional Humans. A young man and a young woman. The young man was clearly a Runner, and the young woman…Grimalkin’s head turned back.

“Nice muscle definition. Hm. That’s…”

He was half-interested in that, half in the play, and mostly on leaving. Grimalkin was looking for his apprentice, who seemed to have wandered off in hopes of prolonging her stay, when an exclamation from the trio drew his eyes back. The young woman who’d come in with Erin had caught sight of Numbtongue, who was wandering past, eating pizza.

“Hobgoblin! [Quick Kick]!”

She reflexively recoiled and then lashed out with a kick. Grimalkin saw Numbtongue whirl, try to dodge—but the kick was too fast. It caught him on the chest and knocked him backwards. There was power in that blow! Numbtongue flew backwards, hit a table where a pair of Gnolls were sitting, rolled over it, and landed in a crouch. The inn erupted into shouts as the Goblin made two fists, but Erin, waving her hands desperately, put herself between the Human and Hobgoblin.

“No! Garia! It’s Numbtongue! Didn’t you know I had Goblins at—have you never seen—does no one read my signs?”

Chaos. But quickly dispersed. Erin, panting, quickly explained, and Grimalkin saw the young woman called Garia, blushing, introduce herself to the annoyed Hobgoblin along with the other Runner. The [Sinew Magus] watched as Erin slowly placated Numbtongue and then made a beeline over to him with the Runners.

“Hey, Grimalkin! Sorry about the fuss—”

“I wasn’t part of it. It was a splendid kick, though. Excellent form. But I really should be going, Miss Solstice.”

The Drake replied calmly. He saw the young woman behind Erin blush. Out of politeness and curiosity, Grimalkin turned to her and the Runner. He held out a claw.

“How do you do? Grimalkin, [Sinew Magus]. You have an impressive display of muscles, young lady. Compressed, though. Clearly the work of a Skill. Also the bearing of…someone who’s lost weight. Your balance is slightly off, but that’s a [Martial Artist]’s kick if ever I saw one. Nice to see some have become Runners at last. It’s a compatible profession.”

The young woman blinked at him.

“I—thank you! I’m Garia. Garia Strongheart. Are you a [Martial Artist] by any chance?”

She grasped Grimalkin’s claw and shook it. He grunted. [Enhanced Strength]? She was strong! What a treasure! At her age, she had the potential to be a real [Mage]. He was about to say so when Erin slid into the conversation.

“Grimalkin’s not a [Martial Artist], Garia. But he’s a [Sinew Magus]! He does magic—with his muscles! Or something like that. Hey! Do you know martial arts, Grimalkin? Oh—this is Fals, by the way. He’s a Runner too. They’re both from Celum.”

She indicated the young man. He grinned weakly up at Grimalkin, staring at a bicep.

“A pleasure, Mister Grimalkin? I run with Garia. You’re from Pallass? The Pallass?”

He looked dumbstruck as he stared around the inn. Grimalkin nodded.

“I’ve dabbled in martial arts. Not my forte. But I’ve travelled the world. Visited [Knights] training in Terandria, bald-headed Humans with fists like iron, Drathians, Chandrar’s population in Pomle—you should see Selphid [Martial Artists]; absolutely deadly. I didn’t know there were any in Izril.”

“I wasn’t taught by one. At least—I don’t think Ryoka was very high level. But I’m dying to learn more techniques, and Ryoka’s in the far north! I’ve been leveling up like crazy—I want to see how strong I can be!”

The young woman flexed a thin arm, and Grimalkin narrowed his eyes. She’d definitely changed her body structure recently. He could almost extrapolate how she’d looked before now. But it was Garia’s words that lit a fire in his heart. He spoke carefully, trying not to shout.

“Young woman. You would be wasting your talents if you were just a [Martial Artist]. No—I will admit, they’re a fearsome class. But I would be remiss if I didn’t tell you to become a [Mage]. Like me! You clearly have a powerful foundation. [Enhanced Strength], am I right? And I assume—[Weight Control]?”

Fals and Erin blinked, but Garia’s eyes widened. She hesitated and almost reflexively covered her stomach.

“How did you know?”

“It’s obvious to me. But please—hear me out. I’d be delighted to talk about [Martial Artist] techniques with you, but you must join one of my classes and see my curriculum. I’ve studied strength, and there’s more to a powerful swing than just the muscle in your arm. If you’ll allow me, I’d like you to listen. [Martial Artist] or [Mage], you owe it to yourself to rebuild your body.”

Grimalkin held his breath. Normally, here was where most people started edging away, but he had a good feeling about Garia. And the way the young woman’s eyes lit up was everything he wanted to see. Garia looked at Fals and Erin before nodding.

“I do. Tell me everything, please! About martial arts and…”

The [Sinew Magus] exhaled. It was moments like these he lived for. He smiled and tried to come up with the most concise summary of his life’s work possible. And Erin Solstice had given him the terminology as well.

“Ah! Well, let me tell you, it’s all about the…core. Yes, the core. And I’ve made it my life’s work to develop a regimen that creates a strong body in as short a time as possible. Now, you may stop excreting during the first few weeks of training, and I have had it compared to torture, but the results are so immediate that the elite regiments of Pallass’ soldiers come to me for a basic fitness regimen…”



—–



Grimalkin and Garia stood in a corner of Erin’s inn discussing everything muscle-related with such avidness that Erin couldn’t keep up. But that didn’t matter. Her job was done.

The two were so engrossed that they didn’t notice as Erin and Fals drew back. Erin was smiling, but Fals, for some reason, was not. He shook his head as he looked back at Grimalkin and Garia, and a worried frown creased his brow.

“She’s changed, Erin. I don’t know if I know Garia anymore. Remember the old Garia? She was timid. Very kind, but—now she’s ten times as bold. And our best Runner! Frankly, I’m worried she’ll surpass me soon, if she hasn’t already. It’s amazing how much this place has changed too.”

Fals smiled tiredly at Erin. She grinned at him.

“I know! I couldn’t believe it was Garia at first! Hey—thanks for coming to the inn. I appreciate it.”

Fals chortled. He gestured around the room, his brows raised.

“And miss all this? This is incredible! I was meaning to pay a visit, but I’ve been busy. Not that it’s exciting around here since the Goblin Lord business. Dead gods, Erin! The Players of Celum, people from Pallass? Can you tell me what’s happened?”

“Of course!”

Erin beamed and led Fals off into a wonderland of fast food, acting, and talking about all that had changed. But she kept an eye on Grimalkin and Garia. They took nearly half an hour to speak, and Garia looked like she was taking notes. Erin had Fals happily conversing with a Drake when she spotted the two breaking up. Quickly, Erin slid back towards Grimalkin.

“I’ll be waiting for your visit. Martial arts, magic—contact me!”

The Drake called out to Garia. She was nodding eagerly as she went over to Fals, clearly delighted. Erin rubbed her hands together, but stopped when Grimalkin turned to her. The Drake was shaking his head.

“Amazing. That might be one of my finest pupils yet. A [Farmer] background and a [Martial Artist] class? Although she has compunctions about gaining too much muscle—well, I suppose that’s a Runner’s concern. Ah, Miss Solstice. What a fantastic meeting!”

The [Sinew Magus] was clearly delighted. Erin beamed as well.

“Wasn’t it? Aren’t you glad you stayed? Say, while you’re here, why don’t you wait a bit longer? You could show Garia some moves, maybe! I know she’d love that. And you know, I have two friends who are [Mages]. Can you do that display of magic again, maybe? What about in Celum? Maybe you could show Pisces and Ceria a trick or two?”

For a second, she thought the Drake hadn’t heard her. Grimalkin was still staring at Garia, his brows raised. He smiled, clearly impressed—and then did a double-take and stared back at Erin. His eyes narrowed as he registered their conversation.

“Show them—wait a second.”

He looked at Garia. He stared at the door, now open to Pallass, and then at Erin. The [Innkeeper] hesitated as Grimalkin’s brows snapped together. She didn’t like the way his expression changed. Slowly, the [Sinew Magus] pointed at Garia.

“You did that on purpose. Do it again.”

“What?”

Erin grinned, and a butterfly appeared in her confident stomach. Grimalkin folded his arms.

“Not forty minutes ago, I was prepared to leave. Then you convinced me to stay and ran to get that Runner. Coincidentally, she ran into a Hobgoblin and kicked him. I suppose that was chance, but you led her straight to me. You know she wanted to learn about martial arts. Or was it magic? You set that up.”

“No…what makes you say that?”

The inn was already hot, but Erin began to sweat. Grimalkin eyed her.

“What was it you just asked? You wanted me to show magic to—ah! That adventuring team. The one that wanted me to teach them [Lion’s Strength]. And I was about to acquiesce!”

“No, hold on, that was all coincidence! I mean, it was sort of me knowing what Garia was like, but—”

Erin began to panic. She didn’t know why—it was all aboveboard! It was just people meeting people! But having the trick exposed felt risky. Grimalkin’s narrowed eyes confirmed that.

“I noticed the same thing with Maughin and my visit to Liscor. Coincidences turn into beneficial meetings for you. Pallass intercedes in Liscor’s election. I just happen to draw a crowd with a demonstration that helps your inn. This was calculated, wasn’t it?”

“No…okay, maybe. But hey! I—look, Grimalkin, I’m not saying you have to help Ceria and Pisces. But it’d be nice if you did? Maybe?”

Erin’s heart sank in her chest. Grimalkin was just staring at her. And there was a keen analysis running there that not many people gave Erin. She gave him her most wide-eyed look. It didn’t work. He shook his head slowly.

“Incredible. And I didn’t notice it—or I paid it little mind until now. That’s not a Skill…or is it? You remind me of a [Senator], only highly effective at low-level dealings. Or one of the people who like to play shadow games, only on a smaller scale. Archmage Feor. Terandrian monarchs. I haven’t met Magnolia Reinhart, but she’s an apt comparison on Izril.”

That stung. Erin sucked in her breath.

“Um, thank you?”

“It’s not a compliment. I suppose it’s obvious in hindsight. Rufelt and Lasica do the same thing. But they’re experts at making money and being liked by all. And their manipulation is up-front. Honest. I see. Well, I congratulate you on the trick. Do it again.”

Grimalkin stared at Erin. She hesitated.

“Uh—what?”

He shook his head slowly.

“Unless I’m wrong, the entire purpose of me arriving here was to teach Miss Strongheart martial arts. Or was she bait? Let’s say that she was. Were you hoping to persuade me to teach your two [Mage] friends magic?”

“M-maybe?”

Erin looked to one side, flushing a bit. Her plan had been a bit more nebulous than that. But…Grimalkin frowned, then nodded.

“Very well. I’ll do it.”

“Really?”

Relieved, smiling, Erin looked up. Only to see Grimalkin extend a claw and flex it slightly.

“So do it again. Show me something I want.”

“Wait, what?”

The young woman frowned. Grimalkin eclipsed her frown with his own.

“I’m not in the habit of lending my abilities or expertise out for free, Miss Solstice. I realize that’s what friends do, but I consider you an acquaintance. So. You showed me a potential student. And you’ve delivered me a bunch of fascinating, unique training methods. Weights. What else do you have to offer me?”

“Hey! I gave you that all out of good will! I was being helpful!”

Erin spluttered, red in the face. Grimalkin nodded.

“I’m quite aware. And it helped you a bit. I’m not accusing you of lying to me, Miss Solstice. If anything, I owe you a great deal. But let’s just say I’m open to the possibility that you’re holding something back that I might like. So. Do it again.”

He pointed at Garia. Erin wavered. She held up a finger. Opened her mouth to protest—and Grimalkin stared at her. The two locked gazes, unblinking.

Erin buckled first. She hesitated, then scuffed at the floorboards, scowling. She’d meant to use this as a prod anyways. But subtly.

“Okay. Okay, there was this one thing…I saw this guy using like this rubber—er, elastic band. Like…two cords like this, see? And he stretches it across his chest or pulls while rotating like this—”

She began describing a resistance band to Grimalkin. The [Sinew Magus]’ eyes widened.

“Fascinating. Using elasticity as…you know, I saw String-people doing something like that when I looked into how they built themselves. Of course! And that’s far more portable than—”

He caught himself and narrowed his eyes again.

“And you just recalled that. Just now.”

Erin grinned sheepishly at Grimalkin and shrugged. He eyed her, then smiled.

“A pleasure doing business with you, Miss Solstice. A training session it is! One. For those two [Mages]? I’ll gladly teach Miss Strongheart some techniques free of charge. She cannot be allowed to go to waste.”

He gestured at the Horns and Garia with one claw. Erin spluttered.

“One? But Ceria said she’d have to learn from you for at least a week to learn a Tier 4 or Tier 5 spell—”

“Who said anything about spells? I’ll check on their fitness, their aptitude, recommend how they should progress—it’s actually quite effective. I am an expert [Mage], after all. If those two have any holes, I will fix them. [Necromancer] or [Cryomancer]. Of course, teaching them spells will require more time, and if they have any significant flaws, I’ll need to remedy them.”

“But you said one training session—”

“Well, until you come up with another splendid idea for me to work on. I’ll take them in advance. Resistance bands indeed. Any more training techniques? Other weights?”

Grimalkin peered down at Erin. She could only splutter in reply. After a second, he nodded.

“Well then, one session it is. More to come, on condition, of course. And if you have any more requests, feel free to seek me out with appropriate payment. I take ideas, artifacts, chance encounters, or whatever else you can manufacture.”

He waited. Erin stared at him and then, flustered, looked around.

“L-Lyonette? Get me the Faerie Flowers and a mug of ale!”

The [Princess] came over as Erin rushed over to the windowsill. Xif, watching the end of Pygmalion, looked up with interest as the two fussed over a mug and came back to Grimalkin. He watched, arms folded, never taking his eyes off Erin. She offered him the mug, grinning weakly.

“Uh, want a Faerie Flower drink?”

“What’s it do?”

The Drake eyed the mug. Erin bit her lip and looked at Lyonette. The [Princess] had caught wind of what had gone down and seemed amused. Erin weakly shrugged.

“If you have a horrible trauma, it might help? It’s, uh, one-of-a-kind, I think. Sorta.”

Grimalkin considered the mug.

“No thanks. My traumas aren’t that significant. Anything else?”

“Nothing I can think of.”

Erin locked gazes with Grimalkin. After a second, the Drake nodded. He smiled at her.

“Well, then, one session it is. I’ll do my best, of course. I’d love to jog your memory.”

He nodded at Lyonette and strode through the crowd, avoiding touching everyone with ease. Erin bit her lip, and Lyonette laughed.

“Someone actually figured out you were manipulating them behind the scenes, Erin?”

The [Innkeeper] shrugged ruefully. She wasn’t so much upset at being found out as embarrassed. Grimalkin had treated her like some kind of calculating manipulator! Which she wasn’t. Okay, sort of, but—

“He’s smart. Damn. And he wants me to give him more ideas and stuff—or introduce him to people, or he won’t train Ceria and Pisces! I really wasn’t going to manipulate him into helping them—”

“Sure, Erin.”

“I wasn’t! I was just, you know, going to make them all get along? He was interested in Yvlon’s arms, and I thought—gah! Never mind! Now he wants me to pay him!”

Erin waved her arms, still red in the face. Lyonette stopped smirking long enough to look interested.

“Do you have anything to bribe him with?”

Erin covered her face with one hand, thinking.

“I dunno, treadmills, I guess? Gravity weight training? I saw that in an anime. Uh…I really didn’t have much else. No, parkour-ish stuff. Yoga? Oh! Yoga! Maybe. If I remember any of my yoga class. Now I have to think! Why was he the one who saw through me?”

She stared at Grimalkin’s back, then, to her surprise, saw the Drake’s form waver and vanish. Ishkr, carrying a tray past him, nearly dropped it in alarm. A voice spoke right next to Erin and Lyonette.

“I work out my brain as well as everything else, Miss Erin. What’s this about treadmills? I’m familiar with gravity training, by the way. Parkour and yoga. Are they martial arts forms? No? Fascinating.”

The two young women spun around. Grimalkin was standing behind them, arms folded. He nodded as Erin pointed at the place where his illusion had been and at him, jaw working furiously. He raised both brows.

“Have you never met anyone properly high-level before, Miss Solstice? You shouldn’t underestimate Pallass. Or didn’t you notice that we have as many talents as you?”

He nodded past her. Erin spun again and saw Xif was peering at the bed of Faerie Flowers. He was sniffing the air and eying the small yellow blossoms in their bed. She could hear him muttering out loud in a break as the [Actors] on stage changed plays.

“Hmm, hm. Fascinating. Blue fruits? Shield Spider materials. And this flower…”

“Damnit!”

Erin cursed. Or was this an opportunity? She looked back, and Grimalkin nodded to her. His smile wasn’t smug, but it was superior.

“You’re among equals, Miss Solstice. Well, at the very least. I’ll be on with that lesson now. Please be as specific as you can when you tell me about these treadmills and so on. Tread. Mills. Huh. Actually, I think I understood that one without need for help. Well, I’ll wait for your actual explanation. As I said, I’m happy to spend time training these adventurers. A pleasure to be manipulated by you.”

He nodded at Erin and walked past her. Erin opened her mouth, then, for once, closed it. She turned bright red and said not a word for a whole minute. Lyonette stared at Grimalkin in awe. He winked at her as he strolled over to the Horns of Hammerad.



—–



Xif the [Alchemist] still smelled of nose-searingly strong chemicals and ingredients when Erin found him looking over her box of Faerie Flowers. The bright, small, yellow flowers were much like short dandelions, although the flower petals were much more exotic. And Erin had quite a number of boxes of them! With Mrsha’s help and daily watering, the few flowers she’d had now filled eight planter boxes.

Honestly, Erin hadn’t made use of them for a long time—the Faerie Flower drink was powerful, but she’d been worried after seeing its effect on Halrac and Ilvriss. And her [Wondrous Fare] Skill wasn’t something Erin had really needed or wanted to focus on. Magical dishes were cool, but with all the turns and twists in her life, they weren’t something she could devote time to.

Yet, someone was focusing very hard on her flowers, and it wasn’t Apista for once. The Ashfire Bee was lazily clinging to the ceiling, but Xif was peering very hard at each flower, sniffing heavily and even going so far as to try and taste the nectar—that was when Erin caught him.

“Xif! Hi! Don’t lick the nectar or eat the flowers. They do, uh, weird things to your head. Hey! Can I introduce you to a friend? Octavia? She’s a bit down—did you hear about the Celum stuff yesterday?”

Erin smiled desperately as the [Alchemist] paused with one paw extended towards his tongue. Xif blinked at her, and his usually befuddled look focused as he blinked two brown eyes at her.

“Octavia? Hm. Oh yes, the young [Alchemist]. I was there for that. But, ah—perhaps in a moment. I’m truly more interested in these flowers, Miss Solstice. I caught you making—was that a drink?”

“Oh, that? The Faerie Flower drink! Good for making you think about what ails you! I’m working on the tagline. Uh, yeah, I’m thinking about selling it, but it’s sort of strong! The flowers are strong too, really. Actually, they have a few uses! But I wouldn’t want you to get hurt or something.”

Erin shuddered as she recalled trying the nectar and having her Alice in Wonderland freak-out. Xif raised his brows.

“Really? Multiple uses? Well, I’d love to experience each one. Unless it makes your fur fall out? Hah! But that’d be an improvement in my case, wouldn’t it?”

He grinned, and Erin smiled despite herself. Still, she couldn’t help but feel slightly possessive over the flowers. They had been a reward, of sorts, for her Frost Faerie banquet. That had been real magic. Her magic.

Of course, Lyonette had urged Erin to sell the flowers to Xif if he wanted them. The [Princess] had gold coins for eyes these days. Erin sighed.

“They don’t make your fur fall out. They do do weird things to you, like, uh, make you see things or go to sleep—then again—the Faerie Flower drink might be my thing. I have a Skill.”

She frowned at the flowers. That was a good point. Had she ever let anyone else try making the Faerie Flower drink? Erin had [Wondrous Fare]. What would happen if Lyonette copied her? Would it be like Octavia? Now she had questions. So did Xif. His eyes lit up as Erin described the flowers.

“Really? Multiple effects without combining with a magical base or other ingredients? You just added that into the alcohol—these flowers are fairly powerfully magical then! I thought so! Amazing! What species are they? Where did you get them from? I’ve never seen the like! Has Miss Octavia tried using them?”

“No, I—they’re from far away. Gifts! They were a gift. And I haven’t let Octavia try to use them.”

Guiltily, Erin realized that was something the [Alchemist] could have used. But—these were special flowers. Not even of this world. Xif frowned.

“I see. They’re special. Hmm. But with what you’ve said—Miss Solstice, I must buy them from you. New, highly magical ingredients? I’d shave off all my fur and walk around naked like Saliss before I turned up an opportunity like this! Come to it, he’d put on clothes for a month for these! How much for one planter box?”

He eagerly pointed to one of the boxes of flowers. Erin hesitated and saw Lyonette’s head whip around. The [Princess] hurried over.

“If you want a box, we have plenty! We could sell maybe—”

“No.”

Erin brought Lyonette up short. The [Princess] opened her mouth, but Erin overrode her and Xif. She smiled at the Gnoll [Alchemist], but firmly shook her head.

“I’m sorry, Xif, but these aren’t for sale. They were a very important gift, and—well, I’m not selling them.”

Lyonette stared at Erin, horrified. Xif was appalled too.

“Miss Solstice, these could be a wonderful boon to [Alchemists] everywhere. A powerful antidote, a life-saving reagent in a potion—they could be the next Eir Gel!”

“Exactly! And we don’t use many now that the Ashfire Bees are gone. Let alone your drinks…Erin, can I speak with you for one second?”

Lyonette tugged on Erin’s arm, frowning hard. But Erin was unmoved. She thought of Grimalkin and his announcement that Pallass’ army would be using weights. That was one thing. But this? She hesitated. Life-changing medicine? But some selfish part of her, childish, made her shake her head again.

“No. I’m sorry, but no. Lyonette, that’s final.”

She put her foot down. It was hers. Her magic, however small. Xif looked crestfallen. Lyonette looked like she was going to have a heart attack. Erin relented a touch.

“What if I sold you the petals and nectar and stuff? I’d be okay with that.”

Xif frowned and scratched the hair on his chin, but the Gnoll shook his head. He bent down and eyed a flower sprouting from a bulb.

“As tempting as it would be—I think I would rather have the flower, Miss Solstice. An entire flower, rather. You see, it’s not just about the ingredients. Call it the [Alchemist] in me, but these are too…how long have you grown these flowers?”

Erin shrugged.

“A few months. Since winter.”

“I see. And these have germinated like this?”

Xif indicated the short flowers. Erin nodded proudly.

“That’s right! We replanted them as they kept growing. I only had a handful, but they multiplied, and Mrsha looked after them with Lyonette…why?”

The Gnoll mumbled to himself. He peered at each flower, then nodded slowly.

“They’re all the same.”

“Excuse me?”

“I mean, they don’t have any characteristics of full-grown plants. No reproductive elements.”

He looked up at Lyonette’s and Erin’s blank faces.

“Haven’t you seen dandelions turn into the white fuzzy seedpods? Or witnessed grass growing seeds? These are similar to grass and dandelions. Short, unmatured. That they can still reproduce is no surprise; many plants can do that. But they’re not fully developed. And if it’s been months, there may be another trigger.”

So saying, he straightened and tapped the planter box in front of him. Xif turned seriously to Erin.

“I don’t believe they’re fully grown, Miss Solstice. In fact, I’d stake my best potions on that. I’d like to ship these to a friend in Oteslia. Their [Gardeners] are the best in the world. If anyone could ascertain the exact nature of this plant, it would be them. Your price?”

Erin’s jaw dropped. Not fully grown? She looked at the flowers, but—come to think of it, Xif was right. Erin did know what he was talking about. The Faerie Flowers could just be flowers, but they were just stalks with blooms on the end. They had no root system. No ovules.

Xif was right. And yet, Erin still hesitated.

“Maybe. But I want to keep my flowers, thanks.”

She didn’t know why it mattered so much to her. In fact, she was beginning to regret her stubbornness, except for the idea in her head. She could try growing the flowers herself. And when she found out if they evolved or something, sell them to Xif. Octavia could corner the market! She’d give some to Octavia to make up for ignoring her.

Xif frowned, as if reading Erin’s thoughts. He sighed, looking at the flowers, and then looked sternly at Erin.

“I understand your desire to keep what’s yours, Miss Solstice. Drakes are very much like that. But you realize these flowers are invaluable as a new discovery to me? And if they are as valuable as I think, I’m afraid I’ll have to make you an offer you can’t refuse.”

Erin felt a chill down her spine. She took a step back from Xif as Lyonette stiffened. Erin’s hand instantly went for her belt.

“You’re threatening me?”

She couldn’t believe it! And neither could Xif! He looked horrified as she placed a hand on the kitchen knife Pelt had made.

“What? Threatening you? I’m no [Thug] of an [Alchemist]! I just said I’d use a Skill.”

“Oh, a Skill!”

Lyonette looked relieved. Erin just looked blank. Xif tutted.

“Dear me, the expressions you Humans come up with. I put my tail in my mouth all the time, though. Better just to do it now. Miss Solstice, I invoke [The Avid Collector]. Name your price for a single flower.”

Erin blinked. He was pointing at a flower. She wasn’t going to—

“Twenty—two hundred and twenty gold pieces for a flower.”

The words popped out of her mouth before Erin realized she was speaking. Lyonette’s eyes popped. Xif just smiled.

“Done!”

He reached out and offered Erin a paw. She shook it, realized what she was doing, and pulled her hand back.

“Damn!”

“Too late!”

Xif smiled happily and ruefully at Erin. As surely as she knew her inn, Erin realized that one of the flowers in the box belonged to him. And two hundred and twenty gold pieces belonged to her. Lyonette looked like she was going to swallow her tongue as Xif pulled out his bag of holding and began setting gold coins on a table. He had them in stacks of ten. Erin just stared at Xif for a moment.

“You can’t—that wasn’t—that’s not fair!”

But it was at the same time. She had felt the deal go through as she shook his paw. Erin looked around, Xif was smiling apologetically at her. But she wanted—

“Venim!”

The Watch Captain winced as he stood on Pallass’ side of the door. Erin stomped through the door and confronted him, ignoring the upset crowd who wanted to watch the play. The Drake wearily looked at Erin.

“Yes, Miss Solstice?”

“Xif just used a Skill on me! He made me sell one of my flowers to him!”

“Really?”

The Watch Captain’s eyes sharpened as Erin relayed the transaction to him. But when she came to him using his Skill, his eyes brightened.

“He bought a flower for how much?”

A large number of heads turned, and Erin hesitated.

“Well—that’s not important! But he made me sell the flowers, and I can’t take it back! You have to force him to stop it!”

She felt embarrassed saying it, really. It was way more gold than the flowers were worth! And yet, she was outraged because she’d been forced to make the deal. But Venim only chewed his lip for one second before shaking his head.

“It’s legal. You can’t name a price you won’t sell for. He just forced a sale. Pallassian law accepts that, Miss Solstice.”

Venim looked delighted to be able to say that. Erin stared at his face. Behind her, Kel the [Guardsman] grinned triumphantly. Venim’s lips were twitching too. Erin glared around.

“How is that fair? What if he wanted me to sell a precious heirloom or something?”

Venim shrugged.

“The fact is he did not, Miss Solstice. He forced you into a deal you were willing to take. It’s not always pleasant, but Skill-based sales are acknowledged as a legal tool across the world. If it was unethical, you could appeal it—like how I hear [Slave Traders] can force someone to sell themselves into slavery. But I doubt it’ll win given your supply of plants.”

He looked pointedly back into Erin’s inn. She looked back glumly and saw Xif was going from flower to flower, followed by Lyonette, who had helpfully dug out a spoon and cup to transport the precious bloom in. The Gnoll hummed happily as he picked his small flower out of the box and carefully replanted it in a mug.

“I don’t like it.”

“You don’t have to, Miss Solstice. But I’m afraid you must abide by it. Unless you have a better Skill.”

Venim smiled politely and triumphantly at Erin. She stared at him.

“Maybe I do.”

Without another word, she hurried back into her inn and found a Drake in the crowd. Selys had heard the commotion, of course, and when Erin explained what had happened, the newly-made [Heiress] gladly accompanied her over to Xif. Erin smiled sweetly at the [Alchemist], who coughed politely.

“I’m sorry about that, Miss Solstice. But it is one flower. And I meant what I said; it could save lives. At the very least, it could make a profit. And I’m nothing if not eager for that. In either case, you stand to gain greatly.”

Erin smiled sweetly at Xif.

“I know. And I know you’re being nice, but I don’t like being made to do anything. So…hey, Xif! This is my friend Selys.”

The Drake shook Xif’s hand. She peered at Xif and the flower he had chosen that Lyonette was carefully excavating. It did have roots, small ones, but it was a plant.

“[The Avid Collector], huh? That’s a Skill that probably lets you complete your inventory as an [Alchemist]. Neat trick. I can do that too. [Everything Has A Price]. Hey, Xif, how much for Erin’s plant?”

The nearby Drakes and Gnolls oohed. They were, of course, listening in. Erin was entertainment, even if it was, in this case, unwilling. Xif blinked and raised his brows. He stared at Selys. And then smiled.

“Mm. Two thousand gold pieces, yes?”

The Drake’s jaw dropped. So did Erin’s. Xif chortled at their expressions. He patted Selys gently on the shoulder with a toothy smile.

“If I only have one chance to take a flower like this, I’m hardly likely to sell it for less than what I bought it for, yes? Nice try, Miss Selys. But I’m good at appraising goods. And I deal with rich [Merchants] on occasion. Still, you have a wonderfully useful Skill, young lady. Much better than mine.”

Selys flushed, and Erin looked at Xif and realized she’d lost. He smiled apologetically at her, and she began to get angry. Then she looked at the pile of gold coins and just felt defeated.



—–



“Lasica! Xif is bullying me!”

Erin slumped on the counter next to the [Chef]. Lasica paused in drinking from a bubbling concoction her husband had just served her from behind the bar. She eyed Xif, looked at Erin, and smiled.

“I heard. He forced you to sell those pretty flowers, didn’t he?”

“I mean…yes? And it’s a lot of gold! But he made me do it! And Grimalkin—”

Erin turned red as she remembered that exchange. Lasica raised one brow, and Erin couldn’t help it.

“He saw through my clever ploy! Grimalkin, I mean.”

“What, by figuring out you were luring him here along with everyone else? Please, Erin. Rufelt, Xif, and I—even love-struck Maughin probably figured it out. Not that anyone’s complaining.”

“Wait, you knew I set all this up?”

Lasica laughed at the look on Erin’s face. She reached over and tapped Erin on the nose.

“Not at first. But it was obvious soon enough. Like Rufelt said—you’re a special type of [Innkeeper]. But did you really think we couldn’t tell we were being led to go along with your flow? What’s the Skill you’re using? [Crowd Control]? Something on top of that? Your inn just lights up with energy when you want it to.”

Erin bit her lip and flushed a bit. Lasica and Rufelt knew too? The Drake laughed again, but gently.

“I guess I was using some Skills unconsciously. But—I wasn’t trying to trick you all. It’s just that I knew if you came here and Krshia and people from Liscor met you—it wasn’t a big plan! Sort of. I just wanted my friends to be happy.”

She mumbled into the counter. Lasica laughed and patted Erin affectionately on the head.

“I know. And I think Grimalkin knows. And he must like you—he doesn’t listen to anyone he doesn’t like. Much less teach students besides his own? Erin! That’s a huge honor! Grimalkin’s students are among the best the Walled Cities have to offer!”

“Really?”

Erin perked up a bit. Grimalkin had disappeared outside with the Horns a bit ago. Lasica nodded seriously.

“Oh yes. They might get teased because the ‘Muscle Mage’ of Pallass was their teacher, but not to their face. A graduate of Grimalkin’s is considered a rank above your average Wistram graduate. Not least because he teaches his students how to fight. They could be promoted to the equivalent of [Captain] in most Drake armies just by having his graduation certificate.”

“Wow. Well—look, I’m sorry, okay? I’m not trying to be sneaky about it. And you’re all friends to me! You and Rufelt were really nice, Lasica. Really.”

Now Erin wanted Lasica to be sure Erin wasn’t a jerk. She looked seriously at the Drake.

“You two were really nice to help me out. And after you let me come to your bar all those times! I have to repay you. Let’s go to the kitchen when you have a moment. I want to teach you all my recipes. Because we’re friends. Not just because you’re helping me, okay?”

The [Chef] waved an idle claw.

“Oh, that’s fine, Erin. Don’t worry about it. I already know all of them.”

“…Huh?”

Nonplussed, Erin stared at Lasica. The [Chef] twirled a claw in her drink and licked it.

“I saw all your food as it was coming out. It’s not very complex to create, any of it. And there are similar foods from across the world. You have some interesting ones, I’ll grant you! But it’s nothing on magical cooking or dishes made with monster parts, like Wyvern meat or slimes.”

She gestured to Ishkr passing by with ketchup and mayonnaise and a lot of fries. Erin spluttered.

“But—what—even the mayonnaise?”

Lasica gave her a reproving look.

“I am a [Chef]. Eggs, vinegar, salt, and oil processed for a long time? I’d add some lemon maybe, or even a bit of mustard. But that’s my taste.”

Erin stared at Lasica. Then she slowly covered her face with her hands.

“I give up! I’m outmatched!”

Lasica chortled again. She patted Erin on the back.

“Don’t worry about it. We came here because we liked you and want to help a young [Innkeeper] succeed. Let Rufelt make you a drink. Do you need help in the kitchen? Rufelt, come over and help poor Erin out. And maybe you can teach her some of your drinks. You really need better alcohol, Erin.”

Grinning, she waved her husband over, and he did make her a drink that took most of the embarrassment out of Erin’s chest. Most, but not all. As husband and wife surrounded Erin and Xif came over to apologize again, she felt it in the air. A small message from Pallass’ finest to her.

Gently, teasingly, and yes, kindly, they were telling her that she might have been getting arrogant. When she realized that, Erin put down her head on the bar and turned so red that Mrsha put an ice cube on her ear to watch it melt.



—–



One last encounter found Erin in her inn. She’d lost most of her motivation to rush around playing chance-encounter matchmaker. In fact, she was sitting at a table playing chess with herself—the magical chessboard was silent today; her opponent must have been too busy for their usual semi-daily games—when Watch Captain Venim found her. He was leading another, elderly Drake, and he cleared his throat meaningfully.

“Miss Solstice. May we have a word?”

“No.”

The Watch Captain frowned. Erin looked up briefly as she rearranged her pieces.

“I’m not doing whatever you want. It’s ‘take-Erin-down-a-peg day’ today. I know what’s up. I’m just gonna play chess here. Don’t bother me. I’m sulking.”

She went back to her chess game. Venim looked askance and nervously checked the old Drake at his side. The Drake had very grey scales with only a hint of yellow in them.

“Miss Solstice, my guest—”

“Shush, young Drake. If the girl wants to sulk, let her sulk. Get me a snack, would you? Some of those ‘cookies’ look good. And some rum! Rufelt knows what I like.”

The old Drake hobbled past Venim and pulled a chair out opposite Erin. He sat down without being invited. Affronted, Erin looked up. The Drake peered at the chessboard and poked a piece.

“Hm. White or black?”

“Wh—black.”

The response came out of Erin before she caught herself. She frowned as the old Drake began putting the rest of the white pieces in order.

“Hold on, I’m not in the mood to play, Mister…?”

“Chaldion.”

The old Drake inspected the pieces, then, without hesitation, moved his knight to F3. Erin glared, annoyed, but her chess instincts took over. She moved a pawn to D5 without hesitation.

“Hm. Good. Most of Pallass’ young [Strategists] ponder for minutes over their next moves. At least this time I won’t be bored.”

Chaldion smiled. He was missing some teeth, but they were very white. With one claw, he picked up a pawn and moved it to C4. Erin blinked. She stared at the board and then slowly moved her pawn to E6. The old Drake considered it, nodded, and moved his pawn to D5, taking her pawn there. Erin blinked.

Agincourt Defense. They were fancy names, but it was really just a short back and forth. But there was a confidence in the Drake’s placement that made part of her sit up.

“Sir!”

Venim was back with a handful of cookies and a large glass of rum mixed with blue fruit juice. Chaldion accepted both happily.

“What’s this, what’s this? Some new drink Rufelt’s made?”

“I told him your regular, sir. If you don’t like it—”

“That’s for me to decide! Hands off! And if Rufelt made it, I’ll like it. Don’t bother me. I’m playing. And keep those pesky [Tactician] and [Strategist] brats out of my spines for a bit!”

Chaldion grumpily shooed Venim away. Venim hesitated, then saluted and beat a hasty retreat. Then Erin looked at Chaldion. Really looked at him.

The old Drake was nearly completely grey, as old as anyone Erin had ever met in this world. As old as Tekshia, but like her, he seemed like steel, tough inside. Unlike her, he had an eye patch over his right eye and several scars on his face. He grinned at her when she met his eyes.

“Finally noticing me, young woman? Your move.”

He pointed, and Erin realized he’d moved a piece. This time, she considered it. Pawn to D5. He’d taken her pawn. She thought and moved up a pawn to threaten his. Chaldion nodded patiently and placed his pawn ahead, out of the threat.

“Who’re you? I thought Watch Captain Venim was important.”

“Watch Captains are. But age is a rank of its own. And Pallass has multiple Watch Captains. At least one per floor. Anyways, I outrank them. Wonderful like that. I’d love to meet that young [Strategist], but apparently he’s not welcome in this inn, is that it? Well, I’m just here for food and a game.”

Chaldion chuckled. Erin frowned as she took one of his pieces. He was playing…well. She narrowed her eyes.

“So who’re you? I’m Erin. An [Innkeeper]. This is my inn.”

Chaldion took a tip from his glass and brightened.

“Sweet! Just the thing for brain food. Wonderful sweets you have here. Who am I? Chaldion. A humble old Drake too stubborn to retire.”

He grinned mockingly at Erin. She just raised a brow.

“Really?”

“Ah, you’re no fun. My history’s boring. I’m just a [Veteran Strategist] from Pallass here to play a game of chess. Are you playing or not?”

He tapped the board. Nettled, Erin began to move and realized he’d set a trap four moves ahead. She moved out of the way and took another piece. He laughed.

“And one assumes you’re the person that Olesm Swifttail has been sourcing for those excellent chess games, aren’t you?”

“Maybe.”

Erin folded her arms. The game was going quickly in the opening, but they were slowing down as the complexity ramped up. She already had a feel for Chaldion. He was good. Not as good as her mystery chess opponent maybe, but second-best. Better than anyone else Erin had played.

Suddenly, Erin realized this was the fourth of the trials sent to humble her. Probably. Maybe. But in chess? She gritted her teeth. Not in chess. This was her game. She began playing her best. Chaldion frowned and drank deeper from his glass.

“You are good.”

In silence, the two traded blows, moving their pieces, aiming at each other’s weak spots. To Erin, it felt like a tipping point around twenty minutes into this game. And move twenty. Both she and Chaldion had slowed down a lot.

If Erin was a lower-level chess player, or playing another sort of game, like teaching Mrsha or against a weaker opponent, she could see a much longer game taking place. But against her mystery chess opponent—no, against anyone who knew the game—a chess game took only a certain number of moves before a winner was obvious.

You could play it out, but most games between professionals ended with an agreed draw—or one side conceding. She didn’t know if Chaldion would insist on playing to the end, but she felt the tipping point coming. And she had the upper hand.

He knew it too. The [Strategist] paused as he eyed the board and Erin’s advantage in pieces and position. Then he reached up, and one claw grasped his teal eye patch. Erin stared as Chaldion flipped it up, and she saw that there was another eye there. But it wasn’t like a regular eye. The old Drake had lost his and replaced it with a sapphire—

A bright, blue light flashed from the carved eyeball. Erin recoiled, but Chaldion flipped the eye patch down. He took a nibble from a cookie and nodded.

“[Truesight]. You’re not using a trick. This is just skill, isn’t it?”

“Wh—yeah. Hey! You thought I was cheating?”

Erin was outraged. Chaldion just smiled.

“I wanted to see if you were using magic or a Skill. Neither, it seems. Well, time to get serious. Shall we?”

Suddenly, his eyes sharpened. Erin didn’t know why, but the next move Chaldion made was quick and decisive. She saw him take a pawn, far away from his threatened bishop, and hesitated. What was…?

The next six moves were disastrous. Erin took a bishop, a pawn—and lost her queen. It was a split attack she hadn’t seen coming that opened her up. And it was so graceful that when she realized her position, it was too late. Chaldion took the queen and regarded the board.

“Mine, I believe. Unless you want to play it out?”

“No. I lost. How’d you—that was perfect.”

Erin stared at the board. It was beyond perfect. Computers could play perfect games, but Chaldion had tricked her into that loss. She looked up and saw him smiling. The Drake slowly tapped his chessboard.

“[Path to Victory]. It’s simpler with easy games. You wouldn’t happen to be able to show me this ‘Go’ game or ‘Shogi’, would you?”

Erin stared. And then shot out from her seat.

“You cheated?”

Chaldion shrugged.

“I used a Skill to win. It’s a strategic decision. What? Haven’t you had someone use a Skill on you while playing?”

He offered her a gap-toothed grin. Erin inhaled in outrage—and then she stared at the board. Ruefully, she sat back down.

“Only once.”

“Really? Maybe young Swifttail doesn’t have any to use. He does come here, doesn’t he? Well, I play games like I fight wars: everything goes. Too bad you don’t have a few Skills to use on me; that’d make for a fun match.”

Chaldion grinned. Erin sniffed.

“Yeah. All I can do is poison your cookies.”

He choked, then began to laugh. Erin pulled the chessboard out of the spray and then found herself laughing too. She looked at Chaldion and then at her board. She’d lost. And he’d done it so elegantly too, Skill or not. He’d handed her a defeat, right in her inn, face-to-face. For once, she had underestimated him and not the other way around.

No one in this world had done that. Not until this very moment. She smiled, and the genuine joy in it was reflected in the Drake’s eyes. He chortled as Erin looked around and shouted.

“Ishkr? Get me that Shogi set!”

As Ishkr came over, and Erin and Chaldion began discussing Shogi rules, Rufelt and Lasica watched from their bar. Rufelt eyed Venim and a few Drakes and a Gnoll who’d come through and were staring intently at the board.

“Chaldion himself? That’s something you don’t see every day. He doesn’t even visit Tails and Scales that often. Erin really is special, isn’t she, love?”

Lasica smiled.

“She’s not bad.”

The two of them looked over. Lyonette was sitting at the bar as Mrsha sipped from a goat’s milk drink on her lap. The [Princess] looked at them, a bit wide-eyed.

“You’re treating her like, well, another person. Erin.”

Rufelt chuckled, and Lasica rolled her eyes. She sipped from her drink and munched on a few bar nuts they’d brought from their establishment.

“Of course. We’re a Walled City. Did you think she was completely unique? She’s special, I’ll grant you, but we have at least a few dozen people as strange as her. I think it’s a good experience, to be honest. She’s a bright young girl, but she’s been ‘special’ for too long. That’s what I think. Rufelt?”

The [Barkeep] nodded. He looked at Erin and, with the expertise of someone who could tell what drink someone needed and if they needed words, silence, or to be knocked into oblivion by alcohol, nodded.

“I think she needs to be a girl without the weight of the world on her shoulders for a little bit. So let’s let Chaldion kick her around.”

“You think she can’t beat him more than he beats her? Chaldion may be ruthless and crafty, but as a fellow female, I have to say Erin will surprise him. Or don’t you agree, my dear?”

Lasica raised her brows. Rufelt grinned.

“Well, if we’re taking bets on it—”

He looked down the bar. And Relc, Maughin, Jelaqua, a disgruntled Seborn, Bevussa, Selys, and all the other friends and guests dug in their money pouches. After all, it was entertainment.



—–



That was Erin’s tale. But while she was being humbled and being normal, a second story, or rather, an anecdote, played just outside her inn. But because it was Grimalkin, it was upgraded into a full narrative of its own. The Drake stretched his arms out as the Horns of Hammerad faced him.

“You’re really going to teach us magic?”

“That’s what I said. Should I repeat myself?”

Grimalkin sighed. He looked at the Horns. Ceria and Pisces exchanged a glance.

“Why?”

“Miss Solstice offered me her assistance. So I’ll correct any bad habits Wistram’s drummed into you. If you have flaws in your combat style, I will fix them and teach you a few spells. If Miss Solstice comes through on her end. For now, I want to see what your capabilities are.”

“How generous.”

Pisces sneered back at Grimalkin. He’d gone back to contempt after their first encounter. The [Necromancer] flicked a hand, and bones began to flow out of his bag of holding, arranging themselves into a Bone Horror.

“While I appreciate your superior magical abilities for now, Magus Grimalkin, what makes you think we’re not capable of teaching ourselves? Ceria and I have both made considerable progress in our personal studies.”

“Yeah. Considerable.”

Ceria flushed. Pisces had progressed with his ever-improving Bone Golems and late nights recreating them into deadlier forms. She…usually drank and relaxed with a bit of spellbook reading after a mission from the Adventurer’s Guild. Grimalkin didn’t look impressed as he eyed the Bone Golem, however. It was turning into the classic double-headed war bear. He pointed at it and spoke.

“If that’s supposed to impress me, it’s failing. I’ve seen [Necromancers], and you’re far from Az’kerash, Pisces. That may work for Silver-rank threats, but any decent [Mage] will just say ‘[Dispel Magic]’.”

The Bone Horror, which had been building upwards, fell to pieces. Pisces and Ceria gaped at the bones lying on the ground. Yvlon and Ksmvr looked up. The [Wounded Warrior] bit her lip, trying not to laugh.

“Pisces?”

“That was—I was in the middle of animating that! You wouldn’t be able to do that if I finished the spell!”

Pisces spluttered, face red. Grimalkin raised his brows.

“Which is why I cast it before you finished. Your animation time is slow. Do you really think an opponent would give you that space in battle? Or was that meant to be intimidating? I told you two. Show me your magic.”

He gestured at Ceria and Pisces. The two looked at each other. Yvlon and Ksmvr watched as the two put their heads together. Yvlon casually unsheathed her sword.

“Are we fighting too?”

“If you like. This is just an appraisal. But I might as well study your teamwork. Use the sword, by all means.”

“It’s got a fairly powerful enchantment of [Weight] on it.”

Yvlon warned Grimalkin. Ksmvr had armed himself with his shortsword and Forceshield. Grimalkin nodded, absently watching Pisces pulling the bones back into his bag of holding. Ceria had drawn her wand and was swishing it back and forth with her skeletal hand.

“A sword’s only good if it touches me. Which it won’t.”

Yvlon sucked in her breath. Grimalkin fixed her with one eye.

“I’m no adventurer. But I am Pallass’ greatest [Mage]. I’ll defend that title to anyone who challenges me—I don’t see the rest of the [Mages] lining up to try. Miss Byres, right? Swing as hard as you want. I’ll praise your gonads at least.”

There was no response to that. Yvlon just pulled out her helmet and fastened it to her armor grimly. Pisces and Ceria were also gearing up. The [Necromancer] flexed one hand as Ceria lined up.

“Standard formation, guys. I’ll do my thing—Ksmvr, flank while Yvlon attacks. But give Pisces enough time to summon his Bone Horror, and we’ll all go in.”

The other two nodded. Grimalkin sighed. He looked at Pisces.

“You’re not summoning your undead ahead of time?”

“If this were an ambush, I would have plenty of faith in the speed of my animation.”

Pisces sniffed. Grimalkin just studied the sky. He eventually looked back down when Ceria coughed.

“What? Begin when you’re ready.”

With that, he kept looking up. Ceria glanced at Yvlon and Pisces. He glowered, and Yvlon nodded. Ceria nodded back and then raised her wand and shouted.

“[Ice Wall]!”

A thick wall of ice shot upwards, blocking him from the Horns. It was wide and tall—Ceria gritted her teeth as the wall came up, thickening, growing from one foot to two feet. Pisces instantly pointed, and bones flowed out of his bag.

“Those who have died, heed my call, rise twice to bring to my enemies—”

It was a chant, hastening the speed at which the bones assembled into the Bone Horror, three times as fast as before. Grimalkin stared as Yvlon set herself, and Ksmvr readied his shield. Ceria grinned. The wall was three feet thick now, solid ice! She’d practiced with that spell. She called out to Grimalkin.

“See? Buying time. It’s our basic strategy. Not bad, right? It can at least contain most enemies. In fact, we killed a bunch of Crelers, baby ones, using this—”

She was ready for him to try to jump over the wall or go around. If he did, Ceria would freeze him in midair or create another wall and stymie him. That was the trick Pisces had come up with. When he made the first move, the Horns would scatter, use mobility against him as Yvlon took him on. He was strong, but ice spells were perfect in group fights.

But Grimalkin didn’t dash or jump or even take a step. He just regarded Ceria’s wall as it grew thicker and thicker. Then he sighed, lifted one arm, and made a fist.

A terrible foreboding crossed Ceria’s mind. And her [Dangersense] went off. As well as a certain memory. She watched as Grimalkin took a single stride forwards and raised a fist. Time slowed, and Ceria saw the fist plunge towards her. Exactly like—she turned left and saw Pisces’ eyes go round. Grimalkin reached out—

And he punched straight through the four-foot-thick wall. The thick ice exploded outwards, and Grimalkin’s fist knocked Yvlon off her feet down the hill. With the same motion, he flicked his wrist and swatted Ceria off her feet. The explosion of ice made Ksmvr shield himself from the larger chunks with his Forceshield. He lowered it, ready to attack—and then looked around and realized he was the last person on his feet.

Ksmvr checked Pisces. The [Necromancer] was doubled over. A piece of ice half the size of his torso had hit him in the groin. Grimalkin withdrew his fist and stared down at him through the gaping hole in the ice wall.

The [Sinew Magus] walked through the hole in the wall and towards Ksmvr as Yvlon, swearing and shouting, finally crashed down at the bottom of the hill, and Ceria, unconscious, rolled on top of her. Grimalkin looked down at Ksmvr. The Antinium stared up at him and regarded his shortsword.

Ksmvr considered his options and then slowly raised his free hand.

“Um. Is this war?”





6.39


There was a feeling Yvlon had now and then. One of comprehension. It wasn’t something she could put into words. But if she had to try, it was of her body, the instinctual part of the back of her mind that took over in fights, trying to communicate with the rest of her brain.

It said things like: you can win this if she were eying a monster before they engaged. Or—don’t get overconfident if, say, she were measuring herself against Embria on the practice courts. Sometimes it was a simple warning like duck before someone threw a mug at her head and a brawl started. But sometimes, the subconscious part of Yvlon did appraisals. And she could see someone more clearly than she had a few months ago.

Like her brother, Ylawes. He had always been a [Squire] as long as Yvlon could remember. Then a [Knight]. And always better than her in training, to the point where she couldn’t even judge how skillful he was—only that he was far better than she could dream of being at that moment.

But recently, Yvlon had had the feeling in the back of her mind that she could almost judge him in regards to her own Skills. He had powerful defensive Skills, and he was a Gold-rank adventurer, but he wasn’t an enigma. If they fought, she could land a few blows, maybe even surprise him. It was a welcome realization. And yet—sometimes Yvlon’s mind told her nothing about her opponent other than that they were too far beyond her.

She remembered each instance. First had been Skinner and the sheer terror of an army of undead bearing down on her. Next had come the Fire Elemental and not knowing what it could do. After that? The mysterious Human [Mage] who’d dropped by to kick her entire team about with Tier 1 and Tier 0 spells. The last instance had been Regrika Blackpaw, the traitorous Named Adventurer. There had been others, but those had been the only ones Yvlon couldn’t understand.

Bevussa. Jelaqua. Relc. Seborn. Embria. Halrac. Any one you wanted to name, Yvlon understood they were better than her, but she could understand their strength relative to hers. So she understood that she and her team were far stronger than the Silver Spears had ever been. The Horns might not be Gold-rank yet…! But they were the best of the Silver-ranks, no question. On the cusp of the next level. It was only a matter of time. So they could be a little bit cocky, value themselves a tiny bit. Right?

Right?

“Ksmvr, left!”

Yvlon swung with a shout. Her enchanted sword cut the air as she swung two-handed at Grimalkin’s left. He glanced at her as Ksmvr dashed left. The Antinium was moving incredibly fast! The newly-leveled [Skirmisher] ran like a blur thanks to his [Quick Movement] Skill, and when he struck with his shortsword, he uttered a Skill.

“[Quick Slash].”

His shortsword lanced out towards Grimalkin from the left as Yvlon struck from the right. And the [Sinew Magus] saw her, Yvlon knew. But he only glanced at the trajectory of her sword.

The three met in a clash that took a second to happen, but far longer for Yvlon to process. As she lay on her back, she recalled what had happened. She’d swung, Grimalkin had stepped left, blocked Ksmvr’s shortsword with one arm, and then turned back and hit—

She sat up and looked down at her chest plate. It had cushioned the blow, but Yvlon still felt bruised. Had he sent her flying? With a punch? She was wearing plate armor!

But that was Grimalkin. Yvlon got up, teeth gritted, and saw him. He was letting Ksmvr attack him from the side, blocking the shortsword with one claw while the other was held back in a fist at his side. Ksmvr’s rapid attack with his shortsword slowed, and Grimalkin punched. Yvlon saw Ksmvr block and heard a sound like thunder. The Forceshield the Antinium held rippled as the magical protection resisted the blow, and he skidded back.

“I am unable to harm Grimalkin. Switching to Flamecoat Dagger and arrow. Fleeing in cowardice!”

The Antinium shouted as he turned and ran away, sheathing his shortsword. Grimalkin barked a peal of laughter. He turned as Yvlon rushed at him from behind. Two-handed, the [Wounded Warrior] swung, lashing at Grimalkin’s body, going for speed, not strength. He twisted back, his feet moving across the grass, watching her blade and arms.

Casually. He was so relaxed! Not dismissive; he never took his eyes off her as Yvlon cursed and advanced, slashing faster. But that little part in her head was screaming at her. It was telling Yvlon two things.

One. She could understand Grimalkin a bit. She could judge his strength, even if he was still in a realm above hers. Because she could, she knew how outclassed she was.

Someone as big as he was had no right to move that quick! But he did, and as he leaned out of the way of another slash, he jumped in and gave her a punch to her midsection that sent her stumbling back. Again, her armor caught the blow—

“Weak enchantment. If I hit it too hard, it’ll dent.”

The Drake’s comment made Yvlon pause. She lowered her sword too slowly; he kicked her, and she went stumbling backwards. And then she realized she was on the edge of the muddy hill.

Down she tumbled. Yvlon rolled, feeling her arms take the force of the fall. Something creaked—but Pisces’ bone reinforcement held. And she couldn’t feel her arms. The rest of her—hurt. But it was humiliation. As Yvlon charged back up the hill, she saw something else. Ice fragments. A shower of ice.

Yvlon held up her gauntlets, covering her helmet. An unlucky splinter could put an eye out! Only when the sound had faded did she look and see Ceria was running from Grimalkin, firing [Ice Spikes] at him. He was blocking them with a barrier spell of some kind; Yvlon could see the distorted air. Ksmvr was firing arrows at the back of Grimalkin’s head, and he was ignoring them too.

“Ceria! Let me!”

The Human woman bellowed as she charged Grimalkin again. This time, he pointed at her, and she, realizing what was coming, tried to run sideways. The ray of frost hit her right shoulder; Yvlon swore as her right side went numb and heavy. But she ran on.

“This—”

Her swing hit Grimalkin’s barrier, and she felt pressure, then her sword cutting through. The magic exploded with a pop of sound, and Grimalkin stepped back. Ceria fired an [Ice Spike] at his chest. Ksmvr loosed an arrow from behind.

“Good! [Steel Hide]!”

The ice shattered on his front. The arrow snapped on his back. Yvlon looked up, raised her sword, and felt a hand grab the hilt. She struggled, but Grimalkin had both hands in one steely claw. He raised a fist, and she braced.

“I’ve seen enough. Byres! Out! Antinium! Out! Alright, [Necromancer], Springwalker, show me what you two can do alone.”

He let go. Yvlon stumbled back and saw Ksmvr lower his bow and walk to one side. As Yvlon lowered her sword, panting, she saw a blur of white. Pisces stepped in, his [Flash Step] spell carrying him towards Grimalkin’s chest. He slashed with his flaming rapier, and the Drake blinked. The tip of the blade skidded across Grimalkin’s chest.

Pisces stared at the Drake. He disappeared backwards and then, as Yvlon hurried out of the way, stabbed from the side. This time, the [Necromancer] stared at the tip of his blade. It was wedged between a pair of scales on Grimalkin’s hand. The Muscle Mage lowered his blocking hand and regarded Pisces.

“Is that your best? Show me—”

Grimalkin looked up and raised one arm. The Warbear Bone Horror slammed both claws down with a silent roar, and Yvlon saw Grimalkin stagger. Pisces stepped backwards as a trio of [Ice Spikes] hit Grimalkin on the tail, back, and shoulder. The young man flicked his fingers and shot a stream of fire from them. Grimalkin was engulfed! Yvlon stirred uneasily.

“Pisces—!”

Powerful or not, Grimalkin was a [Mage], and he didn’t have enchanted robes or armor as far as Yvlon could tell. That had to still hurt! She saw the Bone Horror snapping, straining against Grimalkin as he held it off him, but it was unable to crush him. And then—

“—Strength].”

Yvlon caught the last part of the spell. But she saw Grimalkin step back, hit the Bone Horror, and spray half of its head across the hilltop. The audience watching the training session from the windows and outside the inn ducked. Grimalkin exhaled. His scales were smoking, but he looked annoyed more than anything else. Pisces stared and flicked more fire at him.

“[Snow Flume].”

A blast of snow extinguished the flames, and Pisces blurred out of the way. He stared at Grimalkin. The [Sinew Magus] stared back grimly.

“That’s really your best? Don’t hold back. Where’s your [Fireb—”

An ice spike twice as large as the last two shattered on the back of Grimalkin’s head, and he growled. Ceria was peeking around one of her [Ice Walls] as Grimalkin pointed a finger towards her.

“[Fast Fireball]!”

“Oh shi—”

The explosion was smaller than a regular fireball, but it still cracked the [Ice Walls]. The half-Elf standing behind them was caught in the impact and went flying. Grimalkin shook his head.

“I’ve seen enough from you, Ceria Springwalker. [Necromancer].”

He turned his head and bent backwards. Pisces missed the tip of Grimalkin’s face with his flaming rapier. He pointed with his free hand.

“[Stone Spray]! [Shock Volt]! [Summon Bone Horror—]”

“[Gazelle’s Dexterity].”

Yvlon saw Grimalkin twist, and his claws blocked the lightning. He punched out with one fist, and Pisces blurred left. But Grimalkin leapt forwards, and then he and Pisces were dodging, punching, while the [Necromancer] slashed desperately with his rapier, trying to gain distance—but Grimalkin blocked with his claws, and he was just as fast! The two went back and forth, flicking across the grass for five seconds, ten—

And then Pisces jumped back and vanished. Grimalkin paused, looked around, and saw the Bone Horror behind him rising. It was reconfiguring into the strange, tall creature with whip arms. Grimalkin snorted.

“[Dispel Magic].”

He pointed, and the Bone Horror fell to pieces. Yvlon heard a quiet curse. She held still as Grimalkin peered around. He sighed, folded his arms, and regarded his audience. A wincing Ceria climbed up the hill; Ksmvr and Yvlon stood in front of a crowd of Drakes, Gnolls, and adventurers who’d come out to see Grimalkin testing them. The [Sinew Magus] nodded.

“That was your best spell yet. I’ve cast [See Invisibility] by the way. It’s good to see you’re able to cast incantationless magic. And you are—there.”

He pointed straight at Yvlon. She didn’t hear anything, but she could still feel Pisces about. She blushed a bit; everyone was staring at her, and she had the distinct feeling that Pisces was trying to hide behind her back.

“Stop hiding.”

Grimalkin folded his arms. Yvlon jumped as Pisces appeared behind her, looking sour. The [Necromancer]’s voice had a note of complaint in it.

“How did you see me? I was quite sure that even with a spell, I would be invisible—”

“I saw the grass move. What do you expect me to do when you turn invisible? You should have used a jumping spell right away or lost me first. Or both.”

Grimalkin pointed down. Yvlon and everyone else stared at the grass around The Wandering Inn. Pisces turned red.

“Oh.”

He gazed at Grimalkin. The [Sinew Magus] rubbed the back of his neck where Ceria had hit him, sighing. He folded his arms and regarded the Horns of Hammerad. Somewhat shamefaced, they looked at him. Yvlon had mud and grass all over her armor, a slight dent around her stomach, and bruises. She wasn’t sure about her arms, but she felt like the skin might be torn and bleeding under her armor.

She looked left and saw Ksmvr was mainly undamaged. Grimalkin hadn’t hit him, but the Antinium’s antennae were twitching with what Yvlon now understood as shame. Pisces was panting a bit, but he seemed embarrassed more than anything.

And Ceria? She looked at Yvlon and bit her lip. She was slightly battered, and her cheek was swollen. She’d tried to use her [Ice Armor] spell in the first sparring session—right before Grimalkin had punched her.

Grimalkin was unharmed. He smelled like smoke, and he had a bit of wood tangled in his neck spines, but all the Horns had managed to put on him was his irked expression. He looked at them, and Yvlon, flushing, waited for him to say something cutting. But all he did was nod.

“Good. You’re better than you look. Yvlon Byres, passed. Antinium?”

“I am Ksmvr—”

“Passed. I don’t need to do much to either of you. Ten more levels and/or the right gear and you’d both give me trouble.”

“Really?”

Yvlon exchanged a wide-eyed glance with Ksmvr. Grimalkin nodded.

“As [Warriors] go, you’re fine for your levels and equipment. I’ll address that. But my concern is with the [Necromancer]. Pisces, is it?”

He regarded Pisces with an unfriendly look, which Pisces returned. But Grimalkin eventually sighed.

“It’s a single Tier 4 spell, which is good. And I’d be satisfied, by and large. There’s always room for improvement, but that’s far better than Erin Solstice had me thinking. And I don’t know necromancy, so there’s that. No…that’s not what I saw.”

Pisces stared. Grimalkin ignored him as he turned his head. He pointed at the last member of their group.

“Yes. You’re the problem, aren’t you?”

Every eye turned to Ceria. She blinked.

“Me?”



—–



“There has to be some mistake, Magus Grimalkin.”

Yvlon protested as the Horns gathered around Grimalkin and the audience filed back indoors. The four adventurers stood with the [Mage] just outside The Wandering Inn, talking in privacy.

Well—moderate privacy—the line for the outhouses was still there, although the Antinium had added in two more spaces, so five regular people and one Moore-sized guest could go at once with comfortable space in between. Naturally, all five were standing well upwind and far from the outhouses. Grimalkin sighed as he dug the tip of one claw in an earhole.

“Didn’t you hear me, Miss Byres? I’m not accustomed to repeating myself! I said your weak link, your poorest team member is your Captain. Ceria Springwalker.”

He raised his voice a few decibels, and Yvlon winced. She looked at Ceria. The half-Elf was stunned. And embarrassed. Yvlon frowned at Grimalkin.

“Magus Grimalkin. Er—that’s how I should be addressing you, correct?”

“As you wish.”

The Drake waved a claw as he stood impatiently on the balls of his feet. Yvlon nodded. Even standing still, Grimalkin managed to convey both energy and impatience.

“I appreciate you agreeing to help train our team—”

He held up a claw.

“Consult. That’s a better word for it. I have no interest in training your team, but Erin Solstice has expressed a desire for me to help you in her roundabout way. So as long as she provides me with the information I want, I will put aside some of my time to help your team out.”

“How generous of you.”

Pisces sneered as he stood furthest away from Grimalkin. He still looked peeved—no, almost competitive as he stared at Grimalkin. Yvlon assumed his ego was hurt after the beating Grimalkin had just given her team. She shot him a glare, and he sullenly looked away. She wasn’t happy either, but this was an experienced [Mage]! The best in Pallass, if you believed Grimalkin’s words.

“Were you born with that tone of voice, or do you always sound like a sulking child?”

Grimalkin glanced at Pisces, and the [Necromancer] turned red. He opened his mouth, and Grimalkin spoke over him.

“I’m just referring to your—”

“Do you think this is free? Or that I should be less than stingy with my time? How valuable do you think my time is that I can take a few hours out of my day to train any adventuring team? Did you think, when I referred to myself as the ‘greatest [Mage] in Pallass’, I was being hyperbolic? I would be grateful to Miss Solstice for interceding. I would also shut up if I were you, Necromancer Pisces. Because I tolerate snide comments like I tolerate rats in my home.”

Pisces flushed again, but the reply on the tip of his tongue went unsaid. Grimalkin eyed him and went on.

“Good. Now, Yvlon Byres. I’m giving you my frank and professional opinion as someone who regularly consults with and trains [Mages], the elite units of Pallass’ army, and who’s fought on the front lines in six wars over the course of his life. If you have objections to my credentials or my abilities that you witnessed first-hand, feel free to voice them.”

He looked at Yvlon. She hesitated.

“It’s just that—Ceria’s our weakest link?”

She looked at Ceria. The half-Elf nodded hesitantly.

“I know we can all improve, and I know I’m not the best, but I thought that at my level—”

“You misunderstand me. I am saying that at your level, you are by far the weakest of you four. I’m not evaluating you on the merits of your levels or overall current ability, but your potential at this moment. If I was basing my judgment on pure fighting ability, it would go the [Necromancer], you, Miss Byres, then the Antinium.”

“Ksmvr.”

Said Antinium interjected helpfully. It was now Yvlon’s turn to blush at the frank appraisal. Ceria hesitated.

“But you don’t even know our levels. Unless Erin—she doesn’t know them exactly. So how do you?”

“I don’t need to know them to make correct assumptions. You. [Necromancer]. Level 30 plus. Ceria, [Cryomancer]. Below Level 30. Upper mid-twenties I’ll guess. Yvlon Byres, same level range. [Warrior], most likely generic. Antinium…”

“Ksmvr.”

Grimalkin gave Ksmvr a long and distasteful look.

“[Skirmisher]. Level 20.”

“That is very accurate. How did you know?”

Yvlon nodded, impressed despite herself. That was close! She was a Level 28 [Wounded Warrior], having leveled up once during training with Ksmvr and fighting low-level monsters over the last month. Grimalkin shrugged.

“Your Skills. You fight well, Miss Byres, but you lack any of the powerful moves that one associates with a Level 30 class. That truly is a breakpoint in terms of power; many [Warriors] gain lower-level attack Skills like your footwork Skill, [Lesser Strength], what I assume was a Skill that lightens your armor—you felt lighter when I hit you than you should have been—and was that a cutting Skill?”

“[Keener Edge]. Yes. That’s right—”

“Exactly! If you were Level 30, I would expect you to be a specialized class with a very distinct ability. Such as a [Shieldbreaker Axeman], which develops around level…30 to 35, I think, and has a [Shield Destroyer] Skill. Failing that, you would have at least one passive ability of note. The Antinium is easy as well; he has [Quick Movement] and [Quick Slash], but little else. The [Necromancer] has to be above Level 30 if he can summon Bone Horrors, but he’s a lower-level [Mage]. His spell list includes only one Tier 4 spell. And Miss Springwalker knows only a couple higher-Tier ice spells. It’s all very basic when you’ve seen as many classes as I have.”

Grimalkin looked around at the Horns. Yvlon wiped at her helmet with a cloth, and looked around. She got a begrudging nod from Pisces, an awkward smile from Ceria, and a wave from Ksmvr. They glanced at each other, impressed. She turned back to Grimalkin.

“Okay then. You’re clearly an expert. But why is Ceria so much worse than the rest of us? She could tie both Ksmvr and me up with her [Ice Wall] spell if she needed to, and her [Ice Spikes] are accurate! We have our holes, but we’re close to Gold-rank.”

Grimalkin sighed.

“From a certain point of view? Yes. Magical items make a team, and you have two—no, three good ones. That enchanted sword, Miss Byres, already qualifies you. The Forceshield is splendid. The Ring of Jumping that Antinium uses is solid. But your [Mages] need work. Springwalker! Front and center!”

“Me? Why—”

Ceria didn’t get a chance to object. Grimalkin grabbed her and yanked her over to stand in front of him. He spoke in a half-bellow.

“You were the weakest member of your team in that mock battle by far! Even the Antinium managed to aim for my eyes! You relied too much on your spells and hunkering behind your [Ice Walls]! And why? Because you’re out of shape!”

He poked her in the stomach. Ceria turned red as Yvlon peered at her stomach.

“I’m not—”

“Your leg muscles are atrophied! You think you can sit on your fattening ass and cast spells? Your [Ice Wall] is weaker than my toilet paper, and you have no dexterity on your feet! Move and cast! That’s what my apprentices learn once they pass my basic physical baselines! The rest of your team can move, but you hunker down like my grandmother on her deathbed and rely on your magic to protect you. That. Is. Naïve!”

He shouted in Ceria’s face. The half-Elf blinked up at him and silently wiped spit from her face. Grimalkin poked at her chest.

“You lack firepower! I could have stood in front of you and let you hit me with [Ice Spikes] until my enchantment wore off. What can you do besides raise ice walls and cover yourself in ice? Sneeze at me?”

“I—uh—well, I can cast [Fireball]. With a wand.”

Ceria waved her wand weakly. Grimalkin’s eyes popped.

“Then do it! What, are you too good for fire spells? Or is your [Fireball] as weak as your arms?”

“It’s not the greatest around, but—”

“You need stronger magic! Otherwise, you’re filling no role against a stronger enemy other than bait and being a nuisance! Low-level enemies might be stymied by those [Ice Walls], but anything that can smash through them isn’t going to be slowed by an [Ice Spike]! Your team has one [Skirmisher], and he has an enchanted dagger, a Ring of Jumping, and the luxury of being Level 20! What’s your excuse?”

“I, uh—well, I don’t have the spellbooks just yet—I’ve been looking into them and—”

“And? I see rapid weight gain here. Here. And here. You smell like alcohol, and I saw you drinking and eating twice what I would have fed my apprentices, and its lunch. You’re lazy. How many spells did you learn this month? Last month?”

“W-well…”

Ceria turned beet red. Yvlon looked at her and remembered. Ceria’s usual routine in The Wandering Inn was to eat, read her spellbook while having a drink or a snack, and usually stop reading and socialize with Erin or the team until she staggered up to her room, very drunk. Even Pisces, for all he was bound to his bouts of laziness, went to his room earlier than everyone else, and Yvlon suspected he did a lot of [Necromancer] things in there. Ceria wavered.

“Well, not any spells—I did learn [Ice Armor]!”

“From a spellbook?”

“No…but hold on! Pisces hasn’t learned any spells recently! Right?”

Ceria looked at Pisces. The [Necromancer] avoided her gaze. Grimalkin snorted.

“He’s probably playing with his undead. [Necromancers] don’t need to learn as many spells. They create monsters. And I don’t have to look twice to see that both Bone Horrors he made were optimized. Disgusting, but improved in economy of motion and bone.”

Pisces looked startled, then embarrassed and pleased.

“You saw that? I have been improving them, and my primary Bone Horror is twenty percent more eff—”

“Shut up. You are slothful! Miss Byres and the Antinium Ksmvr thing both show evidence of training. You see her face? A lot less baby fat than yours! [Mages] burn energy like [Warriors]—the fact that you’re gaining a paunch tells me you’re slacking. You need to get your head back in shape, stop stuffing your face, and learn some magic!”

When Grimalkin had finished, Ceria finally stopped blocking her ears with the heels of her palms. She was very embarrassed, and as Yvlon unplugged her ears, a guilty silence stole over the Horns. When you put it like that—she couldn’t quite look at her team leader. Grimalkin had hit a nail on the head with all the tact of a hammer. Only Ksmvr was pleased.

“You remembered my name. I had thought you had trouble remembering.”

Grimalkin glared at him. Then he looked at Ceria and sighed.

“Well then. That’s my reprimand concluded. I hope you take this to heart. I could have been harsher, but you’re not a [Soldier] or one of my apprentices. Now then, shall we discuss how you can improve? Inside the inn, I think. Is the second floor open? I dislike standing outside. Far too humid, and it looks like it will rain soon.”

He waved at an errant Acid Fly glowing and buzzing past him and the cloudy skies. The Horns looked at each other. Yvlon blinked.

“Harsher?”



—–



It was tough…love. Or just toughness and a good deal of instructorly concern. Because Grimalkin did remind Yvlon of the [Trainer] her father had hired to teach both her and her brother how to fight. He didn’t mince words, and upstairs, in Yvlon’s room, he addressed Ceria again, pacing back and forth restlessly, tail swishing on the floorboards behind him.

“With that said, your spells are colder than most [Ice Mages] I’ve met. Or killed. Fast freezing too. Your aim is excellent. Combat-wise, you’re still a cut above most Wistram graduates.”

“Really? Well, we did graduate from Wistram.”

Ceria perked up at that. She was still a bit red around the tips of her pointed ears. Grimalkin paused and looked at her.

“You graduated?”

“That’s right.”

He frowned.

“From what program? Are they allowing students to pay to graduate these days?”

Ceria choked on some tea Yvlon had gotten from below. The [Wounded Warrior] glared at Ceria; she was sitting on Yvlon’s bed! Ceria wiped at her mouth.

“No! Pisces and I both graduated. It’s the truth!”

Grimalkin shook his head.

“Wrong. Wistram doesn’t allow their [Mages] to graduate at your level of spellcraft. You could probably fool non-Wistram [Mages], but it’s obvious to me.”

“We did graduate, Magus Grimalkin. You may cast [Detect Lies] if you wish. But it is true. There were extenuating circumstances, but I trust you’ll take us at our word.”

Pisces frowned at Grimalkin. He’d switched back to politeness as he balanced a teacup on four fingers. Grimalkin frowned at him.

“Really? Fine then, I’ll take you at your word, but my point stands. Most [Mages] Wistram churns out know multiple Tier 4 spells after they graduate. At least three to five. Not always combat spells, but I would expect that from you two. With that said, they’re terrible fighters, so you still pass in terms of experience.”

“Really?”

Ceria and Pisces looked pleased at that. Yvlon just frowned. She began to ask—but Ksmvr was already raising his hand. Grimalkin stared at him.

“Speak.”

“Excuse me, Magus Grimalkin. What makes Wistram’s Mages inferior despite their advanced spellcasting, which is apparently superior to Comrade Pisces’ and Captain Ceria’s?”

Grimalkin grunted as Pisces and Ceria shot Ksmvr a dirty look.

“Like I said. Experience. Just…experience. And common sense in battle. Oh, they may be fully-accredited [Mages] with over half a decade’s worth of studying, but that amounts to little field experience in most cases. Sometimes when we have to clash with Humans in the north or fight off a Terandrian fleet, I meet Wistram graduates fresh off the boats. They can cast [Grand Fireball] and link spells in practice, but in an actual battle?”

He scratched absently at his chin.

“The ones who don’t freeze up at the sight of someone having their spine torn out don’t have any awareness. Generally, I wait until they try and cast a huge spell and throw a rock at them from the side. Idiots don’t even use encompassing barrier spells. Or if they do, a second rock does it. That always raises tensions when I visit the academy, of course.”

Yvlon gaped at Grimalkin and burnt her tongue on her tea.

“You make it sound so easy.”

“Well, it’s easier than fighting a veteran [Mage]. This is just comparing Ceria and Pisces to freshly-graduated Wistram [Mages], which they’re around the age of. You are around sixty, aren’t you, Miss Springwalker? Half-Elf bodies get difficult to place after around a hundred years.”

Grimalkin didn’t bother to wait for an answer. He went on, filling a tea cup and sipping it himself as he spoke.

“Wistram may be the premier academy of mages, but they’ve lost all their true craft and magic to the Golems. They’ve neutered themselves for fresh bed sheets, clean-swept floors, and predictability. I told your Archmages that, but none of them besides Amerys and Viltach gave me the passing time of day.”

Pisces looked delighted at the [Sinew Magus]’ words. Ceria just looked shocked. The [Necromancer] leaned forwards eagerly.

“So you agree that Wistram is a shadow of itself, Magus Grimalkin?”

“Of course! Or haven’t you ever visited another academy of magic? Wistram still leads, but the gap is far, far narrower than it used to be. Take my school of learning: Fissival. Our Walled City may not have the illustrious history of the Isle of Mages, but we never lost our artifacts of old or our spellbooks. We train [Mages] for war or academia, and in battle, ours tend to survive longer than most Wistram graduates. Although I will admit that academic [Mages] are common wherever you go. At least Fissival allows for [Scholars] and non-spellcasters. But I wasn’t ever a researcher.”

The Drake trailed off again, sighing. Then he looked around sharply and pointed at Ceria. She jumped and slopped more tea onto Yvlon’s bed.

“So. Why are you so half-done? Your foundation is excellent. But you don’t even know [Icy Spear]. If you graduated from Wistram, why did they let you leave? Or—didn’t you have a master? I’ve heard how brutal the academy is on some students. Don’t tell me they made you take basic courses all six years?”

Ceria swallowed hard and paled. She looked at Pisces and shook her head. Yvlon, knowing what was coming, sat back a bit in her chair.

“No. No, we were expelled. By Wistram’s Council of Mages. But we were allowed to graduate because, um, Cognita, the Golem, declared us graduates. But…”

She trailed off. Pisces lowered his cup and glanced at Ceria and then quietly closed his eyes. The Drake [Mage] glanced quizzically at him as Pisces spoke.

“It was my fault. I committed an error in judgment. However, I was always planning on leaving. I was…revealed as a [Necromancer]. But to be brief, the entirety of the tale is this. Ceria’s master was—”

“Illphres. Illphres, the [Ice Mage].”

Ceria breathed the words. And the look in her eyes was sad and cold. Grimalkin frowned. He listened, and so did Yvlon. The tale of the days the two had spent in Wistram was one she’d heard from them once on the ride back from Celum to Liscor. Hearing the abbreviated version again didn’t make it any less tragic.

An academy managed by Golems. Cognita, the Truestone Golem, and the test to reach the higher floors. Pisces, the young, popular talent exposed as a [Necromancer]. Illphres, the expert [Ice Mage] who’d taken Ceria in. The test that had claimed the lives of Illphres and four other senior [Mages]. Pisces animating their corpses to rob the grave of Archmage Nekhret. Death. Judgment. Expulsion.

“Montressa. Beatrice—our friends. And Calvaron. He died there too.”

Ceria shook her head, her expression bleak. It was the past. And yet, Yvlon knew all too well, the past could cut you in the present with a knife as sharp as memory. Grimalkin stared at her and Pisces, and his impatient expression flickered.

“You two were the students at the heart of that incident? The one with the Specters?”

Ceria and Pisces looked up.

“You’ve heard of us? Wait—you know about that day? The Council and Archmage Feor told people?”

Grimalkin snorted.

“Know about it? It was the talk of Fissival and the [Mage] community for nearly a year afterwards! An Archmage’s guardian undead killing twelve students and faculty and leaving fifty-three injured? Do you really expect Wistram of all places to be able to keep that secret?”

Ceria bit her lip. Yvlon remembered her talking about the currency of secrets that the academy used.

“Probably not. What did you hear, Mage Grimalkin?”

“Just the basics. I was fascinated—specter-type undead that even the current Archmages struggled against? It was as bad as fighting Ghosts that Az’kerash summoned. Of course, my interest was just theoretical; I wanted to be sure Pallass could stand up against an attack from that kind of threat. But you two were…now I see.”

Grimalkin trailed off. He looked at Ceria’s miserable expression and Pisces’ haunted one. Then he nodded. He sucked in his breath.

“TESTICLES!”



—–



Downstairs, Erin heard the shout through the ceiling and jumped. The Shogi piece she was holding went flying, and Chaldion winced. The old Drake grumbled as the entire inn looked up.

“That annoying muscle-head is at it again. You set him on that adventuring team, did you? You must either love or hate them, girl.”

Erin winced. She could hear Grimalkin thumping around upstairs, and his voice was loud enough to be heard through the floorboards.

“Is he always like this?”

Chaldion gave Erin a long look. He sourly picked up the piece she’d dropped and placed it back on the board.

“Guess.”



—–



Ceria’s ears were ringing. Grimalkin’s shout had actually made the windows rattle. He strode down the length of Yvlon’s room and then turned back and pointed at her.

“Testicles! Gonads! Wait, Human females don’t actually have them, do they? I don’t focus on reproductive organs, just muscle. Anyways. Ceria Springwalker! Your master was one of the few [Mages] to take on the so-called ‘test’ Archmage Zelkyr left behind, wasn’t she? I applaud her. She was brave. Truly brave! But foolish. I wish she hadn’t thrown away her life. If she hadn’t, you’d be twice the [Cryomancer] you are today. And she would be alive. But the testicles she must have had—I wish I’d known her.”

“Wh—but—she wasn’t a fool!”

Ceria felt both pleased and angry at Grimalkin’s comments at once. The [Sinew Magus] shook his head.

“She was. Brave! As brave as any [Mage] I’ve met to take on the test! But she was a poor master.”

“Take that back!”

The half-Elf flushed in true anger this time, not embarrassment. She’d take Grimalkin insulting her all day—he was right, which was why it hurt so much—but badmouthing Illphres? She stood up, hand and skeletal hand clenched. Grimalkin didn’t bat an eye.

“I won’t. She was a fool. Or else, why would she have left her apprentice behind without so much as a spellbook? Any decent master would have arranged for you to get something or have someone else teach you. She did neither.”

Ceria turned pale.

“She—I wasn’t her apprentice long. She probably forgot, and we were expelled before I could ask about her things. But she was a great master! Illphres was—”

“A fool. And I don’t blame Wistram’s [Mages] for not trying the upper levels, even though I think it’s destroyed their potential.”

Grimalkin sighed and pulled a spare chair up. Ceria clenched her fists, but Pisces spoke up.

“I’d hope that you had more respect for the dead, Magus Grimalkin. Illphres and her comrades were trying to restore true magic to the halls of Wistram. Isn’t that a noble deed?”

Ceria breathed out. She looked at Pisces and saw his eyes were sharp on Grimalkin’s face. Not angry, just—observant. Grimalkin nodded.

“The cause is noble. The attempt is suicidal. Let’s be honest, you two former Wistram graduates. I’ve been to Wistram. I visit it every few years. And I’m familiar with Cognita. Moreover, I took a look at the ‘test’ Archmage Zelkyr left behind. Have you?”

He looked pointedly at Ceria. She hesitated and nodded silently. Her stomach was tearing itself into knots. Yvlon looked over from her seat and carefully rested a hand on Ceria’s shoulder. The half-Elf nodded gratefully to her. Grimalkin nodded as well, and his expression was dark.

“The test of Archmage Zelkyr. Defeat his guardians and pass. Four Golems plus your famous Cognita. The Armor Golem isn’t much, although it is exquisitely made. I could take that one down, in theory, with the right preparations and some artifacts. But the magma creation? That thing made of metal? That invisible flesh-monster?”

He shook his head. Ceria started, recalling each in turn. Yvlon and Ksmvr just looked silently at her and Pisces, and the [Necromancer] shuddered. Grimalkin kept going.

“I’ve seen advanced Golems fight, like the War Golems the Terlands still use. Have you seen them? They can shoot beams of light, cast spells—no. You know, I thought about challenging the test myself when I was younger and I thought it would make me a hero.”

“You did?”

Ceria looked up. Grimalkin nodded, smiling ruefully.

“Doesn’t every [Mage] who hears about it? Of course I did. And no disrespect to your master, but I imagine I have at least a few levels on her. If I did it, I thought, I’d bring the best team. One with the greatest [Mages] the world had to offer. From Fissival as well as Wistram. But even if I took the best six [Mages] I know, I’d only give us a one-in-three chance of victory. And that includes Archmage Amerys and Viltach.”

Ceria swallowed hard. Archmage Amerys? She remembered her as well. And Illphres had said Amerys had more levels…she bit her lip, remembering Illphres’ last words. The way she smiled.

“Someone had to try. Someone—it wasn’t in vain.”

The look in Grimalkin’s eyes softened just a bit. He cleared his throat awkwardly.

“No. But as long as that monster guards Wistram, no [Mage] will pass that test. I guarantee it. The other Golems you could handle, at risk and at cost. But Cognita? She’s stronger than all four of the others put together.”

“You know Cognita, then, Magus Grimalkin?”

Pisces’ voice was quiet. Grimalkin nodded, baring his teeth.

“Why wouldn’t I know her? Cognita, the Truestone Golem. She was made by a Drake. By one of our Archmages less than two hundred years ago. Archmage Zelkyr was a genius who transformed the world, and his creations live on to this day. Historically, Cognita walked Pallass’ walls. She fought against the Five Families—helped crush the foothold they established on our shores, and killed two other Archmages in battle herself. You should look up her history. We have libraries, you know.”

He looked at Pisces and Ceria. The half-Elf shook her head. She didn’t want to think of Cognita. Pisces’ eyes were alight with interest.

“I’m aware of her history, Magus Grimalkin. But I also know that many artifacts belong to the Walled Cities and in the vaults of the current Archmages. Two Archmages and yourself and you wouldn’t try? Ever? Was it just a matter of logistics or the others refusing?”

“No. I decided not to. Because of Cognita. Let me repeat myself. She killed. Two. Archmages. In battle. Back when Zelkyr walked the earth and [Archmage] was a class, not a title. No disrespect to your former master, Miss Springwalker, but I don’t blame any [Mage] for refusing to fight her. If I took every Gold-rank adventurer in your inn and threw them at her, she would probably finish the fight in less than five minutes.”

Fortunately, they weren’t in the common room where everyone could hear. Grimalkin ignored the incredulous look Yvlon was giving him.

“Gold-rank’s nowhere near the level you need to be to hurt something like her. Even Saliss of Lights, our Named Adventurer—well, if he prepped, he might actually do her some damage. But once she caught him, he’d be dead too. I’m just surprised Wistram’s [Mages] are so comfortable walking around with a superior being judging their every move and their petty squabbling for the scraps of power she lets them have.”

Pisces’ eyes lit up. Ksmvr leaned forwards too, excited.

“Really? Is this Saliss truly that powerful? More so than you, Magus Grimalkin, by comparison?”

The huge Drake paused and, for a moment, looked uncomfortable.

“Well, he’s a Named Adventurer for a reason. And he possesses one of the highest, if limited, combat potentials in the world. He is on my list of people who could kill me—if he took me off-guard. In a fair fight, I’d be prepared, of course. But he’s still…”

He broke off, grumbling, as he folded his arms. Yvlon frowned.

“You have a list of people who can kill you in a fight?”

“Of course I have a list of everyone who can kill me in combat. Any such individual is a threat to the Walled Cities!”

The Horns exchanged a glance. Ceria knew they were way off-topic, but she couldn’t help but ask.

“Who’s on it? Elia Arcsinger?”

“Hah!”

Grimalkin laughed as he took a sip of tea. Then he frowned.

“Wait, were you serious?”

He eyed Ceria and then shrugged.

“Never mind. We’re missing the point. I see now why you two lack some magical knowledge. Nothing to be done about it. Your master’s dead, and you don’t have a master.”

He pointed at Pisces. The [Necromancer] nodded stiffly. Ceria sat up as Grimalkin got up and paced once more.

“As I said, it shows. In Ceria most of all. You lack spells! The rest of your team is solid.”

“I don’t feel solid. I realized how far I have to go. I never touched you in that sparring session! Honestly, aren’t I a big weak link?”

Yvlon shook her head. Grimalkin just laughed.

“You? Miss Byres, if I see a sword enchanted like yours, I avoid it! Moreover, you’re not at Level 30. [Warriors] like you tend to gain a powerful Skill along with a class then—and often in a specific direction. Offensive Skills. Defensive. Or utility, like mobility. Each one has its strengths. Given your fighting style, I’d guess you’ll gain something offensive or mobility-based, but who knows?”

Yvlon blinked as he thrust a claw at her. Ceria looked at her. A Level 30 Skill? Ceria had been dreaming of what she’d get, but Yvlon? The Muscle Mage went on.

“Either way, if you gained, say, [Hundred-Foot Lunge] or [Whirlwind Cleave], you’d solve your issue of reaching the enemy neatly. Most foes can’t dodge like I can; your sword puts you at Gold-rank, and if you gain a decent Skill at Level 30, I’ll certify you as Gold-rank on the spot. The Antinium needs levels and gear, but for his level he’s the most effective of you. As for you two—”

He pointed at Pisces and Ceria and paused. Reluctantly, frowning, he stared at Pisces.

“Low-level spells. Fast casting with your bare hands. [Fencer]’s footwork and a [Fencer]’s Skills. Your technique…you lack Skills, but [Flash Step] makes up for your agility. Huh.”

He tapped one foot impatiently on the floorboards. Pisces looked somewhat pleased and wary. After a moment, Grimalkin nodded reluctantly.

“[Fireball]. [Lightning Bolt]. [Acid Orb]. [Ice Spear]—well, your half-Elf companion would learn that. What’s the [Necromancer] equivalent? Ah, yes. [Deathbolt]. But that’s a poorer spell. Hm. Fine. [Fireball], [Lightning Bolt], [Acid Orb], and—[Stone Spear]. Take your pick.”

“What?”

Pisces blinked. Ceria sat up on the tea-spattered bed. Grimalkin sighed.

“Take your pick. I’ll give you a scroll with the spell. They’re Tier 3; if you can master [Invisibility], they shouldn’t take more than a few weeks at most for you. And they’re simple enough that I have copies. I’ll charge Miss Solstice’s account.”

“What?”

The other Horns sat up. Grimalkin nodded reluctantly at Pisces.

“You pass. Your dodging ability is superior to my apprentices, you have a melee weapon, and you’re practicing fast-casting in the modern style. If you weren’t a [Necromancer], I’d bring you back to have my students learn from your style.”

He paused. Pisces looked delighted, and Ceria was sure his ego was expanding like a toad. Grimalkin shook his head.

“As it is, you’re a disgusting waste of potential. Your [Necromancer] class is designed for raising armies of undead. These specialized Bone Horrors are useful as walls, but [Necromancers] specialize in overwhelming their opponents with minions. You need to keep…three high-grade mana potions on your person at all times and triple the amount of bones you have stockpiled. Then you can raise a small army of skeletons for any given battle. Animal bones? Good. I’d have to hit you if they were Drake, Gnoll, or Human.”

He sighed louder.

“You pass. But either upgrade that rapier and learn more duelist spells or stop using it. It won’t cut my scales; good luck fighting a Wyvern or anything with a tough hide.”

Pisces preened. Yvlon rolled her eyes in disgust as he adjusted his robes and sat up, smiling contentedly.

“I’ll keep that in mind. But, ah, Magus Grimalkin, you’re referring to Miss Byres as close to Gold-rank—Ksmvr obviously simply has too few levels—but what did you mean about ‘certifying us’? You mean, giving us a Gold-rank status as adventurers? I assumed that was a matter for Adventurer’s Guilds to take on…”

Grimalkin looked affronted.

“Of course I can certify someone as Gold-rank. I recommended two of my apprentices to the Adventurer’s Guild in Pallass when they graduated from my training. One for Gold-rank, the other for Silver. She hit Gold-rank in four months. Human Adventurer’s Guilds don’t take recommendations? Haven’t you gotten one from a Gold-rank team?”

The Horns went uncomfortably silent. Grimalkin smiled.

“They probably agreed with me. Now, onto Ceria Springwalker.”

He pointed at Ceria, and her heart sank. She raised her flesh and skeletal hand, smiling weakly.

“I get it. Stop eating, start learning from my spellbook…I can do that.”

She noticed Pisces, Yvlon, and Ksmvr all looking at her skeptically. Even Ksmvr, which hurt.

“I can! Honestly! It’s just that I don’t have any more ice spells in that spellbook of Warmage Thresk’s. But I taught myself how to use [Frozen Armor] in the Raskghar den, remember? I just need to put my back to the wall and…we can buy a spellbook, right?”

“Hm. I may be able to help with spellbooks. I have a few duplicates. But your issue is that you need to practice magic. The [Necromancer] can fiddle about with bones, but you need to practice magic. And not just aiming spells or quickening your incantation. Your [Ice Walls] need to be strengthened. You need to improve your mastery of frost; that’s what [Elementalists] do. They specialize.”

Grimalkin drummed his claws on one arm absently. Ceria looked at him blankly.

“How am I supposed to do that? Gain more Skills? I already have [Weak Frost Resistance], [Ice Magic Affinity], and [Frozen Quickshape], but…”

She jumped as Grimalkin thumped his thigh. The [Sinew Magus] glared at her.

“Dead gods! Do you think magic is all about Skills? I’m talking about practice! Honest work! You need a regimen. Structure! And this is what I specialize in!”

He snapped his fingers, and the pop of sound made the Horns jump. Grimalkin got up in one movement and strode over to Ceria. She found herself standing as he nodded, practically vibrating with energy.

“I’m no [Cryomancer]. I know a few dozen spells involving ice magic, but it’s not my specialty. But I do know how they train. We’re going to have you work on your fundamentals, Springwalker! It’ll be intense! Possibly life-threatening! But. That. Is. Why. It. Works!”

He jabbed her in the chest. Ceria rocked back on her feet with each impact and opened her mouth. He couldn’t mean—she turned red again.

“Hold on! I know what my master talked about having me do, but that’s a bit extreme, right? I can’t even…”

She hesitated. Grimalkin paused as he paced over to the door and came back. Pisces and Yvlon looked interestedly at her.

“Do what?”

Ceria hesitated and turned red. She coughed.

“Uh. W-well. She said that when she learned ice magic, she, er, went to Terandria and walked in the worst blizzards she could find. Naked.”

Ksmvr stared blankly at Ceria. Pisces, on the other hand, let out a cackle, and Yvlon covered her face. Grimalkin just looked nonplussed. He shook his head.

“Walking around in a blizzard naked? Why would that help? You’re in your element. No. That’s idiotic. What I have planned is much more efficient. And you can do it without needing inclement weather. I just need one thing…”

He paused. The Horns of Hammerad looked at him expectantly. Grimalkin looked around, frowning, and then he leaned over to Ceria.

“…This inn wouldn’t happen to have a bathtub, would it? I need to borrow it.”



—–



“Aaah! Aaah! It hurts!”

Erin Solstice heard Ceria screaming outside. She stared at Chaldion—they were playing Go at this point to break up the Shogi games. He was new to them, but he’d won three games out of eight. Erin was enjoying herself so much she really didn’t want to look. But after four minutes of Ceria screaming, she got up and, with a sigh, went outside.

She found Ceria standing in the bathtub. Or rather—lying down in it. It was a nice, round, wooden tub, big enough to hold even Relc if he lay down and submerged in it. Not that he’d ever used it. Erin herself didn’t use it much; Liscor’s bathhouses were much nicer. And it was a pain to fill.

But the bathtub was filled now. With water. In fact, with boiling water. And Ceria was lying in it. Grimalkin had set up a raging fire around the bottom of the tub and, heedless of the way it kept on scorching the sides, was stoking it mercilessly. The only thing that was keeping the tub from burning itself was the water Ceria kept splashing over the sides as she thrashed. But Ksmvr was helping to fill the tub with a bucket. Yvlon and Pisces were just watching.

“What on earth? Ceria!”

Erin was horrified. The half-Elf was going to cook her brains! At the very least scald her skin off! Already, the half-Elf’s arms were red and cooked, but Erin realized the tub was blazing with heat! It wasn’t just scald-yourself hot, it was you’ll-actually-die-it’s-that-hot! She looked at Grimalkin in horror. The [Sinew Magus] looked up cheerfully.

“More heat! Come on, [Necromancer], help me with these flames. We’ll probably need a copper tub if this thing keeps burning. Feel the burn, Springwalker! That’s how you know you’re alive!”

He flexed, raising his arms up and roaring encouragement. Ceria just screamed.

“I’m burning alive, you monster! It’s too hot! It’s too hot!”

“She’s going to die! Grimalkin, what are you doing!”

Erin had to walk around the fire towards Grimalkin. The Muscle Mage looked at her, beaming.

“Not if she does what she has to! Ah, Erin Solstice, admiring my custom-made course? I told you I’d deliver! Fancy talking about parkour? I could try working up something for the [Necromancer], but Miss Springwalker was the one I thought was really—whoops, sorry, it’s getting too cool. Hold on a moment.”

He pointed and shot a bunch of blue flames into the fire. Ceria screamed, and Erin panicked.

“Put it out! Why’s she in there? What kind of training needs this?”

She looked around and grabbed a spare bucket, but Grimalkin held her back.

“Ice magic training, of course! Miss Springwalker’s lowering the heat in the water! Or how else would she be alive? This is training her core! Her magical core!”

He pointed, and Erin saw that he was right! Ceria was flailing about and screaming curses at her team, but she wasn’t looking nearly as bad as the fierce heat suggested. She stared at Grimalkin.

“Wh—really? [Mages] have a core too?”

He hesitated.

“Well, not really. It’s a good analogy, though. She’s really training her ability to freeze things. The faster and more intense she can do it, the stronger her ice spells will be. Especially the higher-level spells. This is a precursor to her learning more advanced ice magics, and it’ll strengthen her [Ice Wall] and [Ice Spear] spell—when she learns it. I’m going to have Ferkr check if I have the spell in my collection. You haven’t seen her around, have you?”

Erin stared at Grimalkin. Then she heard Ceria shout from the tub.

“I can’t do it anymore! Put the fire out! Put it out or I’ll die!”

“Nonsense! You’ve only been in there…eight minutes! Keep going! And you, Pisces, more heat! You need to work, Springwalker, or you’ll never improve! Push those limits! Look at Miss Solstice here. She fought a Goblin Lord—”

“I’m going to kill you!”

“If you have the spare magic for that, I’d welcome the attempt!”

Grimalkin waited. Ceria just stared at him through the steam and started uttering profanities. Erin saw Mrsha, who was padding out to look at what all the fuss was about, promptly be pulled back in by a motherly Lyonette. Grimalkin turned to Erin.

“Anyways, we’ll see what Springwalker’s limit is with this test. I have a few others, but this is actually a very good method to force her to improve. She’s acknowledged she’s become complacent, and her team’s very willing to help her improve. I admire that. Team spirit can force people even further past their limits!”

He gestured at Pisces, Yvlon, and Ksmvr. It looked to Erin like they were placing bets on how long Ceria would last as she cursed them. But—Pisces leaned over and said something to Ceria that made her splash boiling water at him. He retreated, howling, but Yvlon was there, and Ksmvr happily waved as he splashed water into Ceria’s tub.

It was madness, but it was their kind of madness. Erin laughed. Then she looked at the tub.

“Huh. Hot tubs.”

She thought about it, and then her eyes widened. Erin turned to Grimalkin, who was inspecting the heat and muttering about it being ‘only as hot as a cook fire’.

“Hot tubs! That’s it! Grimalkin, you’re a genius!”

“What?”

The [Sinew Magus] looked up blankly. Erin danced about excitedly.

“Oh my god. Hey, Lyonette! Pawn! Belgrade! Get out here! We need hot tubs for the inn! Can we build…”

She rushed back inside before Grimalkin could blink. He straightened, looking at Erin as the door slammed shut. Ceria, boiling, glared at him from her bath. She was still wearing her robes. Grimalkin pointed at the door.

“Is she always like that?”

“I hate you.”

The Muscle Mage met Ceria’s gaze and shrugged.

“Well, keep freezing. You’re clearly out of practice from when your master trained you. Freeze the hot water! Or do you think you’ll be allowed to skip fighting in the summer? [Cryomancers] generate their own cold, or they switch to water magic! But we do need to hydrate you. Drink the water in the tub! Or you’ll sweat to death! Come on, Springwalker! This is barely hot enough to boil my tea in. Do you want to improve, or do you want to improve?”

A strangled scream was his only reply. But Grimalkin saw Ceria thrust herself deeper into the boiling water, and he smiled. She had spirit, that half-Elf. Then Grimalkin saw Ksmvr sidling over. The Antinium splashed Ceria with water and conspiratorially leaned over to Grimalkin.

“Magus Grimalkin, I believe there is one more glaring weakness I possess that I would like you to address if you have the time. It is a crucial flaw in my team’s makeup, and I believe it is just as pressing as Captain Ceria’s weakness in magic, if not more so.”

The [Mage] regarded Ksmvr with distrust, but also a bit of interest. He folded his arms.

“Go on…”

Ksmvr took a deep breath. He looked at Ceria boiling in her bathtub, then at Grimalkin, then at Ceria and came out with it in a rush.

“You see, I have a fear of drowning in water…”

“Because you can’t swim?”

Ksmvr nodded repeatedly.

“Yes. Antinium are incapable of swimming. But I was hoping you could help me.”

Grimalkin paused.

“Get over your fear of drowning in water when you’ll die if you enter it.”

“Yes. Exactly.”

Ksmvr waited. Grimalkin stared at him, looked him up and down, and shook his head.

“In your case, I’d stay afraid, Antinium.”

He walked away. Ksmvr stared down at the dregs of water in the bucket he held and nodded. He whispered at the bucket as he solemnly emptied the rest into Ceria’s tub.

“I knew it.”



—–



While Ceria practiced her ice magic outside with Grimalkin, Erin’s attempts to convince Lyonette to install a hot spring in the new inn’s plans were derailed when she saw a familiar, quiet figure sitting in her inn. She stared and then slapped her head and ran over to a Gnoll happily inspecting a flower in a cup at the bar.

Xif the [Alchemist] looked up warily but, after a moment, went over to speak with Octavia. Because Erin had asked him to, up front. He coughed as Octavia doodled on the table with one finger; she’d taken it off her hand by undoing the stitching. She looked up blankly as Xif smiled politely.

“Ah, Miss Octavia. Might I have a word? My name is Xif, and Miss Solstice invited me to chat with you. I understand you’ve had some trouble in your shop? I’d be glad to discuss the matter with you for a few minutes.”

Octavia jumped and blinked up at Xif. And then her eyes were round. She felt at her eyes, pulled one out, and then put it back in and stared at the Gnoll. She stuttered.

“X-x-x-Xif? As in, Xif the [Alchemist], the one who developed the modern cure-all basic antidote formula?”

He smiled kindly at her.

“I wouldn’t go that far. I just improved the formula. It was quite well-received, though. May I sit?”

“Of course! Please! Take my chair! Take his chair too!”

Octavia shot to her feet and began offering Xif every chair in reach. Numbtongue growled as she reached for a chair at his table, but Xif, chuckling, sat down and beckoned her to sit with him. Octavia did, staring at Xif wide-eyed over her empty cup and plate. She hesitated and then burst out.

“I would love to exchange notes. Formulas? Apprentice myself to you and cook and clean up after you? Please?”

The Gnoll paused only for a moment before shaking his head.

“I’m afraid not, Miss Octavia. You know how we are with secret formulas and recipes. I don’t take apprentices, and if I did—it would have to be someone with a Skillset outside of mine. If you do have any unique Skills, I’d be willing to discuss it. Ah—for reference, I’m specialized in plant work. [Poison Immunity] and [Perfect Reduction] would be some of my focused Skills. And you?”

Octavia hesitated. She lost her sudden burst of energy and looked down at the table, flushing behind her dark, stitched skin.

“[M-Magic-Water Solvent]. And…[Mineral Distillation].”

Numbtongue, listening with one ear to the conversation as he ate an entire plate of macaroni and cheese, heard the embarrassment in her voice. Were they bad Skills for an [Alchemist]? He turned his head and saw Xif smile again. Not condescendingly, but with a knowing look that told Numbtongue his guess was right.

“Ah, of course. Celum’s farm. Rocks and magical liquid. It’s a fine start, Miss Cotton, but I’m afraid it’s not worth my time to teach you. There’s no malice; I hope you understand? Erin Solstice herself couldn’t persuade me to take on an apprentice, not even if she sold me half her flowers. If she has two rare ingredients, though…”

“No, I understand. I’m sorry, I just—I’d offer anything to study under a master. I…uh, has Erin talked about my matches? I’m also studying this Haste Potion—I could show it to you—”

Octavia’s hands were fumbling nervously under the table. For a second time, Xif smiled apologetically and shook his furry head.

“I did see them. Fascinating. I’m afraid most [Alchemists] will be able to copy them once they arrive in Pallass, Miss Octavia. I’m…going to be quite busy with this flower, so I’ll forget I saw them for a bit. But—and I do apologize—I don’t wish to owe you a favor. A Haste Potion, you said? I have seen Potions of Quickness before. Haste would be…but are you sure of the effects?”

“I—I think I am. I’m sorry, I’m not trying to push—”

Octavia’s voice was far meeker than Numbtongue remembered too. But Xif was kindly, even if Numbtongue felt like turning around and kicking him in the back. He’d seen everything the Gnoll had done with Erin. He’d taken her flower! Never mind that he left all that gold there—for the Hobgoblin, theft was theft. If Xif took a single mug from Erin’s inn, he, Numbtongue, would happily beat him to death with it. And then get a new mug. That was how Goblins did things. You didn’t steal. Okay, Goblins had few possessions, but it was like if Numbtongue had taken Shorthilt’s sword—

The Hobgoblin looked down at the steel sword hanging from his side. He only paid attention to the conversation between the two [Alchemists] when he heard Octavia stuttering.

“I—it was my fault, really. I started it—”

“Ah, that sounds like the Chandrarian way. Throwing potions at each other? Insults in public? I miss that. Do they still have alchemy duels between competing shops in public and huge feuds? They must!”

Xif was laughing. Then he grew serious.

“But really, Miss Cotton. You might have been improper as far as the law’s concerned, but hiring a gang to vandalize your shop? Extorting money? We [Alchemists] in Pallass have our fights, but they never go to that extreme. I would say this Mister Quelm is receiving his just rewards. And with his absence, the remaining [Alchemists] in Celum have less competition, yes?”

He nodded, and Octavia nodded as well. She fiddled with a fork nervously.

“There’s only Mabel now that Jeffil’s out of the game. But…my name’s mud with Celum’s City Watch. And that gang could still be hanging around.”

Xif nodded again, his eyes alert, considering. He leaned forwards as Drassi brought over a tray with some drinks.

“Now, as I said, I can’t help your shop with recipes or training, Miss Cotton. I don’t know what Miss Solstice had in mind, but I do take Grimalkin’s position. You know what secrets are to [Alchemists]; we’re always stealing each other’s best products.”

Octavia nodded miserably, and Xif held up one furry finger.

“However, I’m quite content to talk about how I run my business. And I do remember starting up in a small city—I have travelled abroad, and I understand customers. The agony of pricing that accursed stamina potion as well! As humble as it may be, I think I know price points in cities even as far north as Celum—I have a number of [Merchants] who make the journey north of Pallass during the winter. I could recommend your matches to a few and discuss what I know of the business? If that suits you?”

He looked at Octavia. Numbtongue peeked at her face and saw it turn hopeful.

“I’d—I’d appreciate that very much, Alchemist Xif. Would you mind if I, er, took notes?”

“Xif, please. By all means. Let me lend you my quill. It’s magical.”

The two began a heated discussion that Numbtongue stopped following after it began diving into the economics of potions and how much copper you could get away with charging. Lighting? Presentation? The Hobgoblin contented himself with ordering another plate of noodles.

Briefly, yes, briefly, he felt guilty that he wasn’t sharing this with Pyrite. But Numbtongue had a sense that it took…at least eight hours to reuse his Skill to bring Pyrite back. And it was completely different from using Pyrite’s memories too. The other Hobgoblin was there with his Skills and personality. It was amazing. Incredible.

Painful. Numbtongue resolved that, if he could, he’d ‘treat’ Pyrite to at least one meal a day. The Hobgoblin really loved fish; most Goblins did. But Numbtongue was sure he’d love meatloaf. And what might he say to Erin? What might he do? Numbtongue couldn’t wait—but as he was finishing his second plate, he realized Xif had finished with Octavia. Now the [Alchemist] was coming over to his table!

Numbtongue looked up warily. Xif smiled and nodded.

“Er, Numbtongue is it? May I sit?”

Numbtongue thought about it.

“No.”

Xif hesitated. He was halfway sitting, but he stood up after a moment and his smile became forced. He looked at Numbtongue, and the Hobgoblin remembered the way he’d recoiled from him when they first met. Of course, most people did that. That young woman named Garia had kicked him. Numbtongue was more embarrassed than anything else about that. But Xif…the Hobgoblin waited.

“I’d, ah, like to make you an offer, Numbtongue. You are the first Goblin I’ve encountered, let alone Hobgoblin…forgive me, but would you be willing to part with some nail clippings? I notice yours are quite long, and I’d be willing to pay for them.”

Xif indicated Numbtongue’s hands. Reflexively, the Goblin hid his hands and stared.

“What?”

“Your fingernails. I’d like to buy them. Toenails too. I know some of my peers have looked into it, but I thought I’d ask since today seems to be a day of windfalls. Would you consider it?”

Xif smiled at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin thought he looked wary. If he shouted, would Xif run or throw a potion in his face? The Hobgoblin decided to just sit back and fold his arms. Xif sighed.

“I really would like to use them. For potions? It would earn you money as well. How much would you take for them?”

“One million gold pieces.”

Xif blinked. Numbtongue didn’t know if he’d used his Skill or not, but the Gnoll’s face instantly turned rueful. He regarded Numbtongue and then looked knowingly towards the flowers in the beds on the far wall.

“I see. Well, I would be willing to pay a few gold pieces for your clippings if I could regularly acquire them. Do let me know if you change your mind.”

“Sure.”

Numbtongue sneered. Xif hesitated, but in the end, clearly disappointed, he moved away from the table. He sighed, then brightened.

“Ah! Now where is that Mrsha child? White fur—is it magical, different from Gnoll fur, or just cosmetic? These are the questions.”

Numbtongue watched him hurry off, head turning. The Hobgoblin glared at his back and stuck out his tongue as Erin sometimes did. It made Numbtongue feel better. He turned in his seat and realized Octavia was staring at him. The Hobgoblin jumped. She jumped too.

“Numbtongue, right?”

He nodded warily. Octavia gulped. She looked at him. Not afraid—how long had she known him? Since all five Redfangs had been here, that’s how long. Numbtongue felt a pang. The [Alchemist] looked like she had pain of her own. Her hands tightened over a few pages of messy, inky notes.

“I, uh—I wanted to say thanks—”

“For what?”

Numbtongue looked blank. Octavia hesitated.

“Saving my shop? Chasing off those [Thugs]?”

“Oh.”

Numbtongue thought about it. Then he hesitated. What were you supposed to say? He remembered at last.

“You’re…welcome.”

He stared at Octavia. She stared back. Numbtongue realized that was the first time someone besides Erin or Lyonette had ever thanked him for anything. The sensation felt…odd. But good. Octavia smiled weakly.

“Hey, come to my shop and I’ll treat you to a few potions. On the house. Not that I have much of a career. Lots of…trouble. But I’ll pull myself up. I’m really grateful to Erin. I—”

She broke off. Numbtongue and Octavia looked around as someone started screaming outside. Numbtongue grabbed his sword, but then he relaxed. It was just Ceria, still enduring her bath. Some people went to the windows and laughed. On the basis of that, the Hobgoblin relaxed a bit. So did the [Alchemist].

“Always something in Erin’s inn.”

“Mhm.”

Numbtongue nodded absently. He looked at Octavia and then pointed at Xif. The [Alchemist] was bending over, talking to Mrsha.

“Who’s that?”

“Xif? He’s an [Alchemist]. Really high-level. One of the best in…the world? Pallass is known for its alchemy. His potions are leagues beyond anything I could come up with.”

Octavia looked jealously at the Gnoll’s back. Numbtongue grunted.

“I don’t like him.”

He crossed his arms. Octavia glanced at him.

“Why? Because he made Erin sell him a flower? There are a lot of nastier ways he could have done it. And he offered you gold for your nails. Why not take it?”

“Because they’re my nails.”

“You know he could get Hobgoblin nails from…”

“Yes.”

Octavia trailed off. She cleared her throat.

“Sorry.”

Numbtongue shrugged.

“For what?”

The [Alchemist] didn’t have anything to say to that. Silently, she and Numbtongue watched as Xif solemnly shook Mrsha’s paw and handed over several gold pieces. Her look was envious. Numbtongue still was fuzzy on the money thing—mainly because he didn’t really care—but he knew that Xif was a lot wealthier than Octavia. More successful. Numbtongue knew how that must feel.

“I should go back to my shop. I won’t get anywhere if I keep running.”

Octavia muttered. She was staring at the notes. Numbtongue nodded. That seemed like a correct statement. He saw the [Alchemist] getting up, staring nervously at the open door to Pallass. Numbtongue had a thought and remembered what she just said. Casually, abandoning the two licked-clean plates, he stood up too. Just in time for Erin to hurry over.

“Hey, guys! I’m going to have Pawn and Belgrade build a big hot tub! Want to get in? The water’s fine! Hot, but not as hot as Ceria’s!”

She beamed at them. Numbtongue blinked.

“Hot…tubs?”

Erin nodded. She had to explain the idea to him, then she turned to Octavia.

“What about it? You’re both invited! Bathing suits, of course; no skinny dipping! Want to come, Octavia? Numbtongue?”

“No, I—I might go to my room. Upstairs. I’m thinking about visiting my shop later tonight. If that’s not a bother, Erin?”

Octavia mumbled. Erin shook her head.

“Of course not! Just say when—but we’ll have the Horns or someone go with you! Just in case those jerks come back! You’re sure you and Numbtongue don’t want to try…?”

Erin hesitated as she realized who her audience was. Octavia was a Stitch-girl, made out of fabric, which was flammable and probably didn’t like getting wet. Even if it looked like skin. Numbtongue was a Hobgoblin, and there were a lot of people outside. Erin nodded.

“Okay, we can work it out later. Hey! Xif! You need a bath!”

She wandered off. Numbtongue and Octavia watched her pull the [Alchemist] towards the door, then Chaldion, who gladly came with a large tumbler of alcohol, and she closed the door. After a moment, Numbtongue looked at Octavia. She smiled weakly.

“That’s Erin! I, um, I’m going upstairs. Nice talking to you?”

She looked at Numbtongue. He blinked at her and then pointed at the magical door.

“Want to go?”

“What—to Celum? No, I wouldn’t want to trouble Erin. And the door has to be switched…”

“It’s not hard. I can do it.”

Numbtongue puffed out his chest proudly. Octavia hesitated. She looked around the busy inn.

“But the Horns are outside, and I wouldn’t want to trouble anyone. If the [Thugs] are there—”

“That’s fine. I’ll go.”

Numbtongue poked his chest with a thumb. Octavia blinked.

“You? But—”

She halted as she looked Numbtongue up and down. He had his guitar strapped to his back and the steel sword at his side. And that was more than he’d had yesterday by far. After a moment, she nodded.

“Thank you. If you’re okay with it, we can ask Lyonette. Uh—or wait for the play to end?”

“Doesn’t matter.”

Numbtongue shrugged. Inwardly delighted, he shepherded Octavia over to the door. The citizens of Pallass and Liscor stared at Numbtongue and edged back. The Hobgoblin had a huge smile on his face. He looked around—and then reached out and slammed the door. Instantly, there was a roar of protest from the crowd in the inn and, Numbtongue liked to imagine, an even louder one on Pallass’ side.

“Numbtongue! What’re you doing?”

Lyonette hurried over in alarm. The Hobgoblin scratched under one armpit casually.

“Going to Celum. With her.”

He pointed at Octavia. Lyonette hesitated. Octavia waved weakly, looking at the outraged faces.

“With her? But—”

Whatever Lyonette was about to say was drowned out by the people demanding the door be reopened. She looked around and grimaced.

“Okay! You have your guitar? And sword? I’ll check in five minutes!”

Numbtongue nodded. He adjusted the dial, opened the door, and walked through, head swiveling. Octavia hurried after him, and the door closed after a pause and went dark. Numbtongue stared around Octavia’s shop. It was dark, empty, the boarded-up windows leaking light, but he hadn’t spotted anyone. Octavia looked around and breathed out slowly.

“Thank you.”

“Sure.”

Numbtongue sat down, still looking around the shop. No matter how many times he saw it, the inner Redfang in him wanted to loot the precious potions off the shelves. They were so valuable! Erin had called Octavia’s potions ‘third-rate’, but to a Goblin, they were a priceless treasure. He pulled his guitar off his back and tuned it absently before glancing outside. The street was empty. But come to think of it, yesterday…

Numbtongue’s eyes narrowed. But he saw no one aside from a few pedestrians. Pyrite did have a thought, though, and Numbtongue agreed. He made a little plan and was so engrossed in it and strumming a tune that he didn’t realize Octavia was doing something until he heard the clink of glassware behind him. The Hobgoblin turned his head.

Octavia paused as she set up some kind of apparatus behind Numbtongue. She smiled guiltily.

“Sorry.”

Numbtongue eyed the glowing jelly, the red-green herbs in liquid, powder, herbs, and all the other stuff she was setting up. He pointed.

“What’re you doing?”

Octavia shrugged self-consciously.

“Just—just making a healing potion. Something low-grade. It’s nothing. Not worth anything compared to what Alchemist Xif makes. Sorry. I’ll go back if you’re bored. Do you think Erin would let me bring some of this into her inn?”

Numbtongue shrugged. But his eyes were locked on Octavia’s equipment. She kept setting up, after a moment, but she was clearly conscious of the stare. After a second, she coughed.

“Sorry. I’m not used to guests while I work. I had Erin—but she mainly melted holes in my kitchen pot. I, er, you heard what Xif said? About [Alchemists] not sharing recipes?”

Numbtongue nodded. Octavia sighed.

“Cloth moths to that. I know it’s all the thing in most continents, but back home we used to share recipes. I mean, everyone had their secret recipe, but I could at least swap tips. I guess Xif really is the top [Alchemist], of course. But back home, any [Alchemist] would stop by to check out my Haste Potion sample, top-tier or not! I hoped—but I got some tips from him. That’s something. Sorry. Anyways, I’m just going to make the potion. Don’t mind the lights. Or smell.”

She lit a burner with a match. It was some kind of magical burner, although Numbtongue saw it was running on coals—heating them up and igniting them. Octavia grinned weakly.

“Magical burner. I paid for it. Helps with the process. Not necessary; I could make healing potions with a few pots and a kitchen fire.”

“How?”

Numbtongue couldn’t help but ask. Octavia shrugged.

“What? Healing potions? It’s just a small formula. A few Skills. Nothing interesting. I mean—unless you’re actually interested?”

She looked up and blinked. Numbtongue was nodding rapidly. Octavia seemed perplexed.

“Really? Most people don’t like [Alchemy]. It stinks, and it can be, uh, messy. Do Goblins like alchemy? Are there…Goblin [Alchemists]?”

Numbtongue shook his head.

“Goblins don’t make potions. Goblins steal potions. No Goblin knows how to make potions. Not even [Shamans].”

“Really? Do your [Shamans] have special recipes?”

Octavia looked hopeful. Numbtongue considered that.

“Healing paste. You put herbs in mouth and chew. Then spit.”

“Oh. How useful is it?”

“Stops bleeding. Heals a tiny bit.”

Both the Stitch-girl and Hobgoblin grimaced. Octavia hesitated. She looked thoughtfully at the ingredients.

“Well, I’m just a low-level [Alchemist]. Little better than a [Mixer], really. That’s an apprentice, by the way. Kids get that class. But if you want—”

“Hey! Anyone bullying Numbtongue?”

The door blasted open as Erin appeared. Numbtongue fell out of his chair, and Octavia’s jump nearly sent her ingredients flying. Erin looked around and paused, frying pan in hand.

“Oh. Never mind. Hey, Numbtongue, Octavia, you want to come back? Just say when!”

She stared at them. They stared back. Numbtongue slowly shook his head.

“Okay! Cool! Check in thirty minutes?”

Another nod. The door slammed shut. Octavia caught her breath after Erin was gone. She turned to Numbtongue, and he met her eyes with his wide ones. Then, suddenly, they both started laughing. And that was a connection. After that, Octavia set up, and Numbtongue scooted a stool over and learned how to make a potion.



—–



“It’s really very simple. A Goblin could definitely make a potion if he had a few containers. Something clean; cleanliness is very important for alchemy. You never know what’ll react, so a bit of soot or dirt could have explosive effects. Especially with some of the more potent ingredients. That’s why you clean everything. With soap, and then you clean the soap out.”

Octavia explained as Numbtongue sat watching her set up on one of her counters. The Hobgoblin nodded, committing everything to memory. Octavia was a little put off by the Hobgoblin’s intensity, to be honest. She loved alchemy, despite it all. Gold was a second love to the sheer joy you could have, but Goblins? And yet, Numbtongue took this more seriously than she did. He watched as she set up her ingredients and equipment with long experience and pointed.

“What’s that?”

“A triangle flask. I use it to boil stuff. It’s glass.”

“Why’s it look like a triangle?”

Octavia smiled.

“I used to ask my teacher that every day. You know what he told me? To come up with the answer on my own. It took me two years—you want to know what I eventually figured out?”

The Hobgoblin paused. His eyes flickered, then widened.

“The…steam comes out less from the small opening.”

Octavia nearly dropped the flask on the floor.

“How did—”

She saw Numbtongue grinning, pleased at his answer. Octavia had to smile herself.

“I was six! But yeah, that’s the reason. Also, because the wide base allows more heat to affect the mixture, see? You can also balance ingredients in some of the glassware—never mind. Here’s the foundation to any healing potion made in the modern day. Memorize it. Love it. Don’t touch it bare-handed unless you’re me and you can take your hand off.”

She placed something on the counter. Numbtongue peered at the jar full of glowing, orange-yellow gel. It had some fragments caught inside. Seeds or bits of something. He stared. This time, Octavia didn’t have to be prompted. She placed one hand on the jar proudly.

“This is Eir Gel. It’s a primary component of healing potions. Well, I say primary, but you can substitute it with a few other things. But Eir Gel’s very effective. And cheap! Older potions, hah, well, they used all kinds of stuff, but modern formulas work fast based on this stuff. It’s also extremely cost-efficient.”

“What’s that mean? Cost-efficient?”

Numbtongue scratched his head. Octavia frowned. He knew almost every word she said, but stuff like that stumped him.

“It means…you can make a lot of healing potion with comparatively little. Good for selling. You see, a single island off of Baleros practically supplies the entire world with what they need—and there’s such a surplus since it’s so cost-efficient that you can get it even in Celum. Although it’s a lot more expensive since [Merchants] have to bring it inland—but look!”

She pointed. Numbtongue saw she was dabbing only a little into a jar full of water. Octavia had a measuring spoon, and she put in one solid spoonful.

“That’s all?

“For the effect? Yes. I just mix it with water, and I have a mixture. We do need to strain to get rid of the kelp and seeds. Poison needles, if they’re in there too. But this is the essential stuff. It’s a base.”

“Base.”

Numbtongue savored the word. Octavia nodded.

“Yes. You see? Potion making works like this, at least at low levels. First, you take a substance that has an effect you want. Like Eir Gel. It helps flesh regenerate quickly. But it’s not nearly as strong as a potion, it has to be applied on a wound to take effect, and it makes some people break out into a rash. It takes days for Eir Gel to work, so the key is making it faster, more effective, and less rashy, right?”

“Right.”

Numbtongue watched as Octavia pulled out a fine-meshed strainer and began sieving the liquid. It was thicker, thanks to the jelly mixed with the water, and she carefully removed all the flecks until it was a pure orange-yellow color. It still glowed, but it was only noticeable because Stitchworks was so dark. Octavia nodded, checking it for impurities.

“The water’s there just to help me remove the non-Gel. We’re not keeping it this way. Now we put it over the burner—”

“But it’s the wrong glass thing. See?”

Numbtongue objected. Octavia was using a cylinder-type beaker, not the narrow-mouthed one with the wide base. She grinned.

“Right! But what if I want it to all evaporate fast?”

The Hobgoblin gave Octavia a very wary look. Why?

For an answer, Octavia lit the burner, grabbed a tool of the trade—a glass tube bent in a very specific arc downwards—and delicately inserted it into a lid, which she placed on top of the cylinder. Then, swiftly, she put the other end of the tube into a second cup as the Eir Gel base began to boil. She explained to a mystified Numbtongue what it was all about.

“We’re distilling it. The base. See the condensation—er, steam—rising? It becomes a gas, which becomes a liquid that goes through the tube and ends up…”

She pointed at the second cup. Sure enough, a drop of very bright liquid, paler yellow than orange now, was dripping into the cup. Numbtongue stared. Octavia went on, tapping the boiling cylinder.

“The gas becomes a liquid. What’s not boiled away—that powdery stuff—is also a component. I don’t use it for healing potions—but you see, we’ve separated two parts.”

She pointed to the first cylinder, which was indeed developing a layer of powder while all the liquid was transferring to the second cup. Octavia watched the mixture boil like a hawk and, at the right moment, she took the burner away—before the precious powder could start to burn. Now she had the powder, which she put away for later, and a very distilled version of the base.

“Why burn it?”

“Boil. It’s a process to make the Eir Gel—look, it changes the mixture a bit. Makes it easier to work with. And also you can get sick from Eir Gel as it is. Burning—I mean, boiling substances is often very important. You can cold-mix potions, but those can get tricky. Believe me. Anyways, look at this.”

Octavia swirled the yellow liquid as Numbtongue stared at it. The cup wasn’t that large compared to the cylinder she’d filled, but the liquid was potent. It also had a smell that made Numbtongue wrinkle his nose.

“Stinks a bit like burnt kelp, doesn’t it? You get used to it. And this is valuable stuff, Numbtongue! This liquid is the base of our healing potion. But to make a proper potion, we need to enhance its effects.”

The Stitch-girl happily sloshed the liquid a bit and put it down. She grabbed a few ingredients next and began tossing them into a much, much larger vessel. Numbtongue blinked and asked what each one was. Octavia dutifully answered as she worked.

“Those? Minerals. I don’t know my exact list; I keep them sorted. I’ll show you later, but this is my variety. The important stuff is this.”

Numbtongue stared at the golden syrup Octavia was coating the mixture with. He sniffed, then exclaimed.

“Ashfire Bee honey?”

“Counters the allergic reaction. You see? It’s a simple formula. Base effect plus boosting agent and extras to counter side effects or add more qualities. The trick is knowing what reacts with what.”

“So this—”

Numbtongue waved aimlessly at the second vessel as Octavia mixed the Eir Gel base with it. She nodded.

“Yup. It’s just to keep you from breaking out into itchy bumps. Also, the honey makes it taste better. I used, uh, dried leeches and some other stuff instead before Erin sold me all the honey. Anyways, I’ve countered the allergic stuff and added a few tricks that keep the potion lasting longer—they do go bad, you know. Especially if air gets in.”

The Hobgoblin’s brow darkened.

“I know. Very bad.”

Octavia nodded solemnly.

“Well, that’s all preparatory work. You want to know the real magic behind a potion besides the Eir Gel? It’s your booster.”

“Booster. Base.”

Numbtongue looked at Octavia for confirmation. She nodded.

“Booster, Base, Reactor—I don’t use those or anything else on healing potions. Those are simple. Reactors are mixtures you combine with something—to give it a completely new effect. Those are, uh, the things that tend to explode. But Eir Gel is so good at healing already, all we need to do is give it more power.”

“Ah.”

Numbtongue’s sigh was one of comprehension. Octavia wondered if he really did understand. He was sharp. But she’d never heard of a Goblin [Alchemist]. Then again…how many got the chance? She nodded, and a smile played over her lips.

“This is where most [Alchemists] have their own recipe. Eir Gel’s common, you see? But potions, even basic healing potions, are all different. Because everyone has their best recipe. What’s most cost-efficient, what’s cheapest to buy or easiest—or has the best effect. I bet Xif uses only the most powerful boosters, but this—this is what I can afford.”

So saying, she pulled out the jar of water with the red-green herbs in it. Numbtongue peered at the plant floating in the water. He thought he recognized it vaguely, something he’d seen growing somewhere. So did Pyrite. The red-green herb was long, grass-like. And it was glowing—no, the water itself had a faint luminescence! Octavia smiled proudly.

“This booster is low-grade. It’s cheap—you just need a few ingredients. Sage’s Grass, which is just a slightly magical grass some [Farmers] cultivate in huge amounts—a local [Farmer] guy sells a huge harvest to Celum—sugar water, demi-Newt skins dried and powdered, and, er, roach shells. I use roach shells a lot. That’s my formula, at any rate.”

“And what does it do? The mixture.”

The [Bard] pointed at the jar. Octavia blinked.

“Do? Nothing. It just feeds the Sage’s Grass. The Sage’s Grass is magical already, you see? And if I soak it in this water for a week or a month—”

“The water gets magic.”

“Exactly. Sugar feeds the Sage’s Grass in the jar. So do the roach shells. The demi-Newts are slightly magical and don’t contribute much in the way of reaction. So it’s a cheap booster to make. And guess what? This stuff might be cheap today, but there was a time when it would have been worth its weight in sapphires. Even a low-grade healing potion would have been golden.”

Octavia sighed. Numbtongue blinked.

“Really? Why?”

“Oh—back in the day, potions weren’t so easy to make. That’s the thing about alchemy. Even if a…super high-level [Alchemist] dies and no one can make Potions of Great Regeneration anymore, they leave behind notes. Often in code, but more importantly, ingredients. It’s why [Mage] empires collapse and all the artifacts can’t be replicated but why alchemy’s gotten to the point where cheap potions can close a big wound.”

She swirled the jar of magical water as she brought it over to the mixing station.

“Take Sage’s Grass for instance. It was super-rare, worth more than gemstones, and the most powerful ingredient in the world, say, five thousand years back. I don’t actually know. Ten thousand years back, it didn’t exist. That’s because a [Sage], a really powerful one, bred the plant. Hence the name. He died, and [Alchemists] all over the world rejoiced. Because this is cheap, magical, and no one has to kill a Unicorn or milk a magic cow for it.”

She began pouring the magical water into the vessel. Numbtongue, at this point, had graduated to assistant, and he carefully stirred the honey, minerals, Eir Gel base, and magical water together, watching it mix and gently glow.

“And that’s it? You mix and…?”

“There’s a bit more. But yes. I have an easier time than you will. Careful—I do need to boil it again to help it all come together. It’s, uh, yeah, it’s my recipe. But like I said, everyone has a different one. That’s why no potion looks the same.”

“Is it because no one shares?”

Octavia smiled as she worked, stirring the liquid, checking the heat, making sure it was looking how it was supposed to.

“Not just that. Look…alchemy is a very specific thing. It’s not like being a [Warrior] and hitting things with sticks. For a [Warrior], it’s all about flavor, right? I have [Enhanced Strength]! Or I have [Quick Movement]! Either way, you still hit things in the end. But in alchemy, if you have just one thing missing or one thing extra, the result changes. Take this formula, for instance. You probably can’t replicate it even if you copied me. You could get the same result eventually, but not exactly the same.”

Octavia pointed down at the glowing, yellow potion taking shape before Numbtongue’s eyes.

“Skills affect an [Alchemist]’s career greatly. What we have or don’t have allows us to make different potions, creations. That’s why Xif asked if I had Skills he didn’t. Each one can help me out a lot. For instance. This simple potion?”

She paused and raised four fingers.

“[Low-Grade Synthesis], [Cleansing Heat], [Mineral Distillation], and [Magic-Water Solvent]. Those are the Skills that went into this recipe as well as the ingredients. Without any one of them, this wouldn’t work.”

“I see.”

Numbtongue was disappointed. But also elated that alchemy wasn’t that simple. And you could still learn the end result! His eyes focused on the Eir Gel. Maybe a Goblin couldn’t get their hands on that. But the theory of alchemy? A Goblin could do that. Octavia kept chattering as Numbtongue sat next to her.

“[Alchemists] rely on figuring out specific combinations of ingredients, processes, and Skills more than any other class. We create workarounds—like my Sage’s Grass water. It’s cheap around Celum because this Wailant fellow grows it, but it’s harder to get elsewhere, so [Alchemists] have to invent other types of boosters.”

She paused. Octavia had been smiling, energetic near the end of making the potions. Now, as she looked into the bubbling liquid and slowly turned the burner off, she paused, and Numbtongue saw her droop.

“That’s why we spend so much time and money getting new ingredients, tools. Why we need money to invent new things or find out our way of doing what other people do. So if I always seem like I’m trying to get as much money as possible—”

She paused and rubbed at one eye. Then she turned her head away from the liquid below. Numbtongue heard her voice catch.

“I—I’m not a good [Alchemist]. Low-level, really. The matches were my big success, and Erin’s baking soda, I guess. Does she even use it? I guess in bread. No [Baker] wanted to try it. I leveled both times, faster than I have in…but I’m not nearly as good as one of the Pallassian [Alchemists]. Let alone Xif.”

She sniffed. Numbtongue saw her brush at her face and then saw her wipe a bit of liquid. She stepped back before it could foul her potion. Octavia’s voice came out painfully now.

“I just want to be better. To improve. But it’s so hard. Sands and silks, I moved from Chandrar to Izril because I thought there’d be less competition. But here I am. In a city with four [Alchemists]. Well, two now. Jeffil’s arms are broken, and Quelm’ll be in jail if he’s lucky. So it’s Mabel the Magnificent and I. I guess that’ll make things easier?”

Her voice was desperate and forlorn. And—lonely. Numbtongue sat on his stool staring at the glowing liquid. He had no answer for Octavia. He couldn’t relate to most of it. Shops, business. Moving from a continent. But he could say something that was honest, that he understood.

“It’s hard not being strong. And getting stronger is hard. Leveling up is hard. Muscles only get so big.”

He thought of Grimalkin.

“Mostly they stop getting big. But it’s hard. Being weaker.”

“Yeah.”

Octavia sniffed. She plucked out an eye and wiped at the other one furiously. Numbtongue gazed at the cloth eye. It was damp with tears. He stared at Octavia. She was very strange. Foreign. If you looked at her wrong, you’d call her a monster.

“Is it…is it good to have rare things? Rocks? Shiny rocks? Glowing rocks? Mana stones?”

He ventured a guess. Octavia laughed as she put her eye back into the socket and it became flesh and blood again.

“Mana stones? Of course! They’re the foundation of powerful potions! It used to be [Alchemists] used only them in potions since it was so hard to find other magical ingredients.”

“So…you use them?”

Numbtongue felt at his side. Octavia shook her head despairingly.

“You think I have the coin to buy mana stones? Well, if I’d kept my control over the matches, maybe.”

“Hm. What about…emeralds? Gold? Ooh, silver.”

Octavia smiled again, not looking at Numbtongue. She checked the healing potion, cutting a tiny part of her wrist and using the potion to heal it.

“Yeah, all of that. I’d rather sell it, but if I had enough money—you can use gold in some potions. Silver—it’s all about reactions. Finding a way to distill ingredients into other forms, mix them. Water mixed with gold dust is just water and gold dust in the end. But there’s a way to meld the two together. And with that liquid…it doesn’t matter. Too rich for my blood.”

“But you could make a powerful potion.”

“The very best. Or maybe just another weak one. We don’t know. Rare ingredients are rare for that reason. But I’m willing to bet some of them, with the right boosters and combinations? They could make something no one’s seen before.”

Octavia looked longingly at the plain, glowing potion in front of her. With a sigh, she added three drops of coloring and swirled it. The potion became orange and blue, spiraling, an enchanted mixture. The Stitch-girl caught Numbtongue’s eye and smiled weakly.

“For the appeal. I’m a fraud. Honestly, Numbtongue, if you want a good potion, find a way to get it from Xif. Heck, if Erin sells those Faerie Flowers to him, he might cut her an exclusive deal. And then I’m sure I won’t be needed at the inn.”

“Maybe.”

The Hobgoblin thought Octavia was right. Xif was clearly better. Experienced. And many other things. But in that moment, as Numbtongue looked at the potion that Octavia had walked him through step-by-step, he thought of Xif and the look on the Gnoll’s face when he saw Numbtongue.

Maybe the Gnoll was nice and Numbtongue hadn’t seen his good side. He’d apologized. But Numbtongue also remembered the [Guards] posted on the door to Pallass. He couldn’t walk around the Walled City. He could barely walk around Liscor. As for Celum…

He looked around Octavia’s shop. Her shop, where she had trusted him to protect her if there were [Thugs]. And then he looked at his pouch and the shiny and, to a Goblin, fairly worthless objects inside.

Octavia was pouring the potion into jars, stoppering them up, when she heard the clacking. She turned around. And stared.

“What is—where did you get that?”

Numbtongue paused as he put down a bit of silver next to some mana stones, an emerald, and other pieces of his collection from the mountain. Some were his. Others had been mined by Pyrite.

“Shiny rocks.”

“Shiny—do you know what those are? How did you find them? Did you take them from—”

Numbtongue shook his head as she glanced up at him, suddenly worried.

“They’re not hard to get. I—another Goblin used to find them all the time. Mining.”

“You can find these? Mining?”

“Sure. Here. This one makes a good potion, right?”

Numbtongue found a glowing red stone with pink-red fire. Octavia’s eyes nearly popped back out of her head. She reached for it with a trembling hand, then stopped.

“But—but—what do you want in return? Money? Gold? I can’t offer you nearly what this is—”

She trailed off, staring at it. For a second, Numbtongue saw her eyes flicker to him, calculating, assessing. Octavia opened her mouth, reaching for the stone—and then let her hand go limp.

“I can’t pay you what this is worth. But if I could offer you anything in trade? Anything?”

She looked at him hopefully. Numbtongue considered it. He smacked his lips together thoughtfully and nodded.

“Mm. Potions.”

“How many?”

The Hobgoblin thought. The [Alchemist] was tense.

“Two of those?”

He pointed to the bottled healing potions. Octavia stared. Numbtongue frowned.

“Four?”

He waited.

“…Eight?”

The [Alchemist] shook her head.

“You don’t know how valuable these stones are, do you? And my potions are crap compared to—it’s not fair. You know that. You do know that, right?”

She looked up. And Numbtongue’s smile was knowing. He nodded, shrugging casually. A Goblin’s shrug.

“Sure I do. But I want potions. So. Show me how to make them. And make good ones. From these.”

He tapped the mana stone.

“Ones that explode or do good things. Like invisibility. Those are good potions. And give some to me.”

“But the cost—”

“I don’t use shiny rocks. I just throw them at adventurers. To play fetch.”

Numbtongue laughed. Octavia didn’t get the joke. He went on.

“Only other thing is—I eat stones.”

“Mana stones?”

“Yup. Other Goblin did that too. Tasted good too. But sharp. Potions are better. Probably. I tasted good potion once. Invisibility. So you make them. I drink them. Good deal, right?”

Numbtongue smacked his lips, remembering that. Octavia stared at him. Then her eyes welled up with tears.

“You’re just giving them to me? After all I—do you know how much I’d have to fight or bargain for—giving them to me?”

“Mhm.”

The Hobgoblin was prepared for tears. And the shock. But not the hug. Octavia cried, and then she grabbed the stones, talking about finding out what each one did—then she ran around her shop grabbing potions and offering them to Numbtongue. He couldn’t fit them on his belt and said so. After a while, Erin opened the door, and of course, that never made things quiet.

But it was okay. Numbtongue sat in Stitchworks as Octavia calmed down and looked around. It was very quiet here. Not noisy like Erin’s inn was at all hours. You know—he wanted to try copying what Octavia had done. That wouldn’t end badly, right?

Thoughtfully, the Goblin considered the [Thugs]. And other things. And then he looked at Octavia and Erin, who was wondering if you could make an Eir Gel sandwich.

“You know, I’ve been meaning to up my [Wondrous Fare] game. Hey, Numbtongue, you really okay with giving Octavia all the shiny stuff?”

He waved a claw at her. He was lost in his own thoughts. His and Pyrite’s. Imagine if Goblins could be [Alchemists]? Imagine if the Redfangs could have made their own potions instead of hoarding the ones they took from adventurers and raids? Imagine what they might have become?

It was true, what he’d said to Octavia. Numbtongue understood their worth, but shiny stones were shiny stones. But potions? He held up one of the fresh healing potions Octavia had made. It glowed in his claws. This was worth everything. If he could learn this…

After a while, he looked up. He had another thought, and Erin was willing to hear it. She was shocked—so was Octavia at first—and protested. But then she agreed. Because Numbtongue was smiling.

And so, that night, as Erin’s customers learned the pleasures of hot-tub drinking and a very irate Ceria stared at her boiled, pruney fingers while eating greens and Erin played more board games with some of Pallass’ [Strategists] and Chaldion, Numbtongue was not there at the inn. He was, in fact, a hundred miles north. Sitting in an [Alchemist]’s shop, guitar in hands, strumming, while Octavia snored in her room in The Wandering Inn.

The Hobgoblin’s crimson eyes glowed in the darkness. And the sparks that shot from his claws as he played earthed themselves well away from any of Octavia’s goods. He had a bed. A sleeping bag, really, but the Goblin liked it, and Erin vouched for sleeping in the kitchen, where it was installed. Breakfast was at her inn, anyways. He was just here as an employee. Being paid and everything.

Outside, it was raining. The clouds obscured the sky, but if someone were to stand outside Octavia’s boarded-up shop, they’d see a new sign installed there, the paint freshly-dried and varnished. It read this:



Stitchworks is under the protection of the Redfang Goblins!*

*(Bronze-rank team. Attack the Goblin and he’s allowed to hit you. He can also talk, listen, and see. If you throw rocks, he’ll throw them back.)



That was all. It wouldn’t stop stones or stares, but Numbtongue was good at catching and throwing, and he could stare right back. And there he was. A Hobgoblin in a city. It wasn’t Liscor. But it was pretty good.

As the Hobgoblin played, quietly, sitting in the dark of the night, the person, or rather, people who were in a position to read the sign crept closer. And one of them, a man, drew a long, curved knife coated in a dark orange substance. He crept towards the shop and paused. Just in time to hear the faint music playing. Then there was a flash.

A bolt of lightning shot down from the sky. It landed in the city, blasting a hole in the street, waking up Celum’s residents in fear and panic—until they looked to their windows and saw nothing was burning or collapsed and they relaxed. Their gazes missed the black body lying on the cobblestones.

The strike had flung the [Blackguard] across the street. He lay there as the [Nightstalker] stared at his body in horror and then turned back to the shop. She saw two crimson eyes blinking at her, then a grin. The Sister of Chell backed away towards her fallen companion.

Numbtongue was a bit miffed that the [Blackguard] was still breathing. His clothing was smoking, and the amulet on his chest was glowing white-hot—but he was alive. And even conscious enough to scramble to his feet after a moment. He looked around for his knife as the rain pelted him, then stared towards Numbtongue. He looked at his companion as she halted, her own blades pointed warily towards the shop.

The pair focused on the boarded-up front and the two flickers of red light. They looked up as thunder rumbled in the sky. A charge was building in the sky.

Goblins did not make threats. The two stared at the shop and then ran into the night.

One last person disturbed the night and Numbtongue’s vigil. But he wasn’t nearly as bad as the first two. He strolled down the street, his hat slanted against the rain, humming a little tune under his breath.

A children’s song.

The man paused before the shop as the Hobgoblin stopped playing, and the two regarded each other for a moment. And then the man tipped his hat ever-so-politely and went on his way.

Numbtongue smiled. Living in a city wasn’t so hard after all. When the dawn came, he got up, stretched, went into the inn, and called on Pyrite. And here they’d both been ready to fight to the death. A shame.

Breakfast was meatloaf, special. And Numbtongue put the glowing, pink-red mana stone on Octavia’s counter. Then he went back to the kitchen while Octavia was puttering about, muttering about new prices and experiments. Numbtongue sighed, stretched out on the sleeping bag—

And he went to sleep.





6.40 E


Day 56 – Ryoka



“…A fair morning to you all.”

Belavierr’s words echoed across the street. Such innocuous words, delivered politely by a blank face. Luminescent orange eyes with ringed pupils. And the [Witch] herself, tall, dressed like she had walked out of a story.

Not just her either. Seven [Witches]. No—eight. Alevica, Califor, Nanette, Hedag, Mavika, Eloise, Belavierr. And—Wiskeria. She looked up at Belavierr. She’d called her mother.

Ryoka’s head spun. She looked around the crowded street and heard a strangled shout. A woman with a pale face, snappy, fancy clothes compared to many of Riverfarm’s people, stepped forwards.

“Are you quite serious? What is this?”

There was a note of hysteria in the woman’s voice as she pointed. At the [Witches]. At the one called Hedag. Her axe was still bloody. Ryoka’s eyes were drawn to it. The woman, a giant, smiled as the shouting woman’s voice rose.

“She killed Councilman Elmmet! With everyone to see!”

“He deserved it!”

Another man roared that. This one Ryoka vaguely recognized. A huge, balding man—a [Blacksmith] to judge by his clothes—pushed forwards. His face was pale as well, but he pointed furiously at the woman.

“You were there! You saw it, Councilwoman Beatica! I say it was just! Pah! Dead gods, if what we saw was true—”

He spat, looking ill. The Councilwoman, or whomever she was, stared at the man and then shook her head. She stared past the [Witches] at a woman lying on the ground.

“Miss Rehanna as well? They’ve attacked two people of Lancrel—no, of Riverfarm! Sovereign citizens! Steward Prost, I demand you arrest them at once!”

Eight pointed hats turned, and Beatica’s finger quavered. The looks from some of the [Witches]—the hunched Mavika, Califor’s gaze, Belavierr’s—Ryoka edged back from Beatica, as did a lot of the crowd. Beatica’s finger slid sideways out of self-preservation, pointing at a weathered man. Again, Ryoka recognized him.

“That’s Prost!”

She muttered to herself. He was a [Steward] now? No—had he been when she last met him? She had no idea.

“Who?”

A figure bent down and whispered to Ryoka. The Runner girl jumped and looked up. Charlay was half-crouched, staring over the heads of the crowd. The Centauress was getting a few odd looks, but, amazingly in this all-Human crowd, she was still far from the most notable thing at the moment. Ryoka hesitated.

“Prost. I know him.”

She stared at Mister Prost. She had been to Riverfarm before. Once. But it was completely different from what she knew! It was four times again as large, and the people! The street was filled, and this was only a fraction of those present. Ryoka could see more coming this way, some at a run. She stared around. This was Laken’s empire? What had gone on since she’d left? And what was going on now?

The man that Councilwoman Beatica had addressed looked like he was adjusting to all of the events as well. He glanced at a well-dressed [Lady] on his left. Ryoka blinked and realized she had to be Lady Rie Valerund, Ryoka’s target for her delivery. The giant, grey-skinned girl on the right was immediately recognizable to Ryoka as well. Durene towered over all but Belavierr, Hedag, and Charlay. Half-Troll. Laken’s…girlfriend. She looked uncertainly at Prost, then at the Witch named Wiskeria. The hats lying on the ground.

“Murderer!”

Someone in the crowd hurled that at Hedag. Another pointed at Mavika.

“I saw her! She cursed Rehanna! Burnt the flesh right off her hand!”

Every eye fixed on Rehanna. The woman was passed out. Tears, her contorted face—the smell of burnt flesh still hung in the air, appetizing and nauseating at once. Her hand was whole, though. The speaker hesitated.

“She did do it! It was healed—but that [Witch] cursed her!”

“Only after she kicked over Wiskeria’s brew! She made a potion—right magical it was! The best thing I’d smelled in my life! And Rehanna kicked over the whole pot!”

Another man shouted back. He furiously gestured to an overturned cauldron and brown, foul-smelling liquid drying on the ground. Ryoka eyed the stew. Prost looked over, a frown on his face. He raised his hand and forestalled more shouting.

“Is this true, Ram? Tell me what happened here.”

The man named Ram nodded.

“What happened was—see, Wiskeria and Durene came into the village with a stew. Something magical! She was all set to share it out, and Lady Rie’s man, Nesor, he said it was the best stew he’d had! We were getting in line when Rehanna rushed over, and the idiot kicked the entire thing over! Started calling our Wiskeria a [Witch] and all sorts of things—she was running away when she grabbed the doorknob and that [Witch]…”

He pointed uncertainly at Mavika and trailed off. Every eye turned to Mavika. Two crows sat on her arms and shoulders. They peered around, unafraid of the crowd. The [Witch] only smiled as Prost turned to her.

“Is this true, Miss?”

“An ill for an ill. That is what I did. The woman called Rehanna repaid goodwill with bad. So she in turn reaped hers. Do you object, [Steward] of this land?”

There was a rhythmic, odd cadence to Mavika’s words. It would have been clichéd to call it ‘cawing’; Ryoka was rather reminded of a witch right out of Macbeth. Mavika could have won first casting if she’d been an actor. Hell, she could walk onto a stage right now.

But she was the real thing as well. Ryoka’s skin crawled as the witch’s words provoked a cawing from overhead. The flock of crows circled the houses, making the obnoxious, shrill birdcalls Ryoka knew from home. But again—the crowd shivered as it looked up. There was something different about this cawing than the obnoxious bird flocks that sometimes crossed in the thousands from Ryoka’s world. These crows’ voices sounded too knowing. Mocking, even.

A murder of crows. Ryoka shivered. How fitting for a [Witch]. Why were they here? To meet Laken? Mavika’s words produced a hush until the Councilwoman, Beatica, spoke up again.

“An ill for an ill? That was nothing more than—than assault!”

She licked her lips as Mavika stared at her. But Beatica went on, her voice strident. She had a presence about her that called attention to her, lent weight to her words. Ryoka’s eyes narrowed. So this was what Laken’s note had mentioned. She was beginning to see, but she stared quietly. Charlay pawed the ground nervously as Beatica went on.

“Mister Prost! Will you allow these [Witches] to simply stride into Riverfarm? They’ve attacked two people in the village within minutes of arriving! That woman is a murderer!”

She pointed at the tall [Witch], the one with the axe. But the [Witch], with her brown hat, didn’t look bothered by the accusation. She just laughed, a great, booming sound without guilt.

“They call me Hedag, Miss. Hedag the [Executioner]. Sometimes Hedag the [Witch]! And I delivered what justice I had with me in my axe. In a swing for a man who deserved no more and no less. Or did you not see me reveal his sins? Do you say it was ill-done? That he deserved better? You saw what he did.”

She faced Beatica, and the [Councilwoman] froze a second. Those who hadn’t seen, Ryoka included, stared at the woman. But those who had looked uneasy. Sick. Children clung to their parents, and the parents looked as though they wanted to do the same to each other.

“I—know what I saw. Nevertheless! Mister Prost! What is to be done? We demand justice! Lancrel—”

“It isn’t Lancrel that makes the decisions around here!”

The [Blacksmith] roared at Councilwoman Beatica. Looking relieved—Ryoka thought she’d baited his response—the woman turned to him and snapped back.

“Nor is it Riverfarm’s folk, Mister Helm! The responsibility lies solely with Emperor Laken Godart, who we have not seen since arriving in Riverfarm. In his absence, I believe Lancrel’s people deserve a say. Mister Prost—!”

Her words were summoning the crowd’s ire, even in the face of the [Witches]. Ryoka could see it. And now she had a clearer picture. Riverfarm much larger? Check. These Lancrel folk—city dwellers, if their clothes were any match—check. They outnumbered the villagers Ryoka remembered by far. Throw in a few [Witches], a demagogue like Beatica, and no wonder Laken had called for Ryoka.

But the question was: what could Ryoka do? She didn’t think she had the ability to just jump into this conversation. Ryoka tensed warily, wondering what was coming next. Beatica might be a skilled orator, or skilled, but Ryoka thought she was making a mistake. The seven new [Witches] were eying the woman and the crowd, but only the young one, Nanette, looked afraid as she half-hid behind the one named Califor. Her teacher and the others were regarding Beatica like an annoying bug.

And Ryoka didn’t want to know what the one called Belavierr would do if she was provoked. She was just…staring blankly over the heads of the crowd. Then her eyes flicked to Ryoka. The Runner felt Belavierr stepping on her grave…and it wasn’t even dug yet. Her skin prickled. Then Prost spoke. As Beatica was drawing breath, the [Steward] broke off, stepped away from Lady Rie, who was whispering urgently in his ears, and drew breath.

“Very well! Silence! I’ve made my decision!”

The crowd went still again. Ryoka felt the second pressure coming from Prost much like the effect Beatica had had. It quelled tongues, brought eyes onto the man. Another Skill? Prost looked around, then nodded. He raised a hand and began ticking points off on his fingers.

“As I see it, there are three things to address here and now. The arrival of [Witches] into this village. The curse placed on Miss Rehanna. And the death of Councilman Elmmet. I’ve given thought to all three. And this is what I have to say. Elmmet first.”

He took a breath. The crowd of hundreds waited. Prost looked around, and then he bellowed.

“I say it was just! And if that man stood before me again and I held an axe, I would swing it twice!”

Silence. And then a roar of outrage, shock. Not from those who had seen. Ryoka blinked, but Prost’s words shouted over the crowd again. He rounded on the woman with the axe, raised a glowing stone that flickered between blue and red.

“Hedag the [Executioner]. Do you swear before all here present and on your class and under His Majesty Laken Godart’s name that your Skill revealed Elmmet Patterson’s sins and crimes? Do you swear what we witnessed was the truth, unaltered by any magic or trickery?”

He held it up. Ryoka recognized the truth stone. And the [Witch], the [Executioner], grinned. She planted the axe and leaned on it.

“I swear. It was done justly. And what you saw were that man’s sins laid out for all to see.”

The stone remained blue as she spoke. An uneasy murmur ran through the crowd. Someone from Lancrel shouted.

“But she murdered Elmmet? He was accused of theft! And it wasn’t proved—”

Prost spun around so fast the man choked on his next words.

“He did more than steal. And we saw his sins thanks to the Skill [Witch] Hedag used. It was a proper Skill! One that revealed crimes. Like a [Guardsman] would use. I was there. I saw it all. Now, pay heed!”

Prost looked around, and his eyes had their own affixing quality. Ryoka saw his gaze pass over her and then go back to her for a second. But then Prost kept moving, and his gaze was haunted, direct. Without doubt.

“Justice was done. I was there at Master Elmmet’s trial, and his crimes were revealed. Not just to me, but everyone present! I won’t hide his guilt! If anyone wishes to ask, I will tell you what I saw. Or you may ask those who were there. I cannot imagine they’d forget. But Elmmet’s crimes went beyond thievery, and the young shouldn’t hear of what he did. Or anyone who wishes to sleep and think of the man as anything but a monster wearing Human skin. That alone tells you it was just.”

The crowd muttered uneasily. A few voices were raised—

“But surely—”

“A Skill? But she’s a [Witch]—”

“With an axe?”

Then a voice hurled from another man. Ryoka didn’t recognize the [Mayor], Rodivek, but she immediately placed him in Beatica’s camp. The man gestured at Prost, red-faced.

“Nevertheless, Prost! Elmmet was a [Councilman]! You’d hang him without a trial?”

“That was his trial!”

Prost thundered back. Rodivek hesitated. Prost turned around furiously.

“Maybe you didn’t hear me right the first time. I judged the sentence Hedag passed down as just myself! If she hadn’t killed him, I imagine half the folk in the square would have done the same the next minute. I know what I saw.”

He looked at Helm, and the man nodded. Prost’s voice was steady as he gazed at the crowd.

“And I have every right to sentence Elmmet to death. Nor would I hesitate to, even if Emperor Godart were in this village. If he were but five minutes away as I saw what I did, [Farmer] Ram, I’d have called for a rope and strung him up first and then presented myself to His Majesty for judgment without a doubt in my heart that justice had been done. That was the nature of the crime. The only thing to cry about was how fast the sentencing was done. Too slowly by half and far too late, say I.”

He paused. And no one had anything to say to that. Not even Beatica. Ryoka wanted to know what Elmmet had done and she didn’t want to know at the same time. But she didn’t doubt Prost. Nor, it seemed, could much of the crowd. Those who might have wanted to speak up were silenced as Prost turned back to the women standing in the center of the street.

“Now to the next point. Miss Rehanna’s injury. I hear from Mister Ram, who I trust, that she gave offense and destroyed something of value. Wiskeria is our [General]. A trusted member of Riverfarm. I’ll ask for more testimonies, but if she did destroy this…magical soup, she will be punished. But hear me, [Witch] Mavika. You will pay a fine for injuring Riverfarm’s citizen. And that same fine will go to Miss Rehanna, and she will pay part or all of it for destroying Wiskeria’s work! That’s all!”

Another murmur, but subdued. Mavika stared at Prost, unblinking. Credit to Prost, he didn’t look away or flinch. He met Mavika’s gaze and glanced at the others. Only Belavierr gave him trouble; his eyes jerked away from her. But Prost gazed at them and then around at the crowd.

“[Witches]. You are His Majesty’s guests. People of Lancrel, you are his subjects. You came to his lands seeking protection and aid, and it was offered freely. And I know there is discontent. Trouble! But I will remind everyone here present of this: you are subject to his rule on this land.”

Prost pointed down at the street. He glared about.

“His Majesty is returning! And until he does, I am in charge. I, the [Steward] of Emperor Godart, and until he returns, my authority rules! Not any Councilwoman, any mob, or any [Witch]! Is that clear?”

He bellowed, and there was silence from all corners for a moment. Ryoka whistled very quietly.

“Damn. Prost took a few levels in [Badass] since I last met him.”

“I like him. He shouts a lot.”

Charlay looked approving. Beatica, Rodivek, both were crushed in some way Ryoka understood to be a battle of classes as Prost glared at them. They folded their arms, harrumphed, but didn’t dare speak up. It was Mavika who acted first. A crow cawed on her arm, and when Prost looked at her, the hunched [Witch] spoke.

“You speak of laws. Of your right to rule, as if you own land and hearts. Perhaps you claim it of these people. But we are [Witches], Emperor’s man. We cannot be anything else. And where we go, we practice our craft. Will you stop us from that? Bind us with laws? Because we will not be held.”

“Mavika.”

One of the other [Witches], Eloise, sighed. The short grandmother of a woman stepped forwards and adjusted her hat. She smiled at Prost. Eloise looked kindly, which, contrasted with Mavika or Belavierr, made one suspect she had darker secrets still. Prost folded his arms.

“You are guests, Witch Mavika. Are you threatening to curse more people? Or unleash your flock?”

Eloise sighed as Mavika looked at her.

“Neither. Allow me to explain. We are [Witches], Steward Prost. And we have come here to speak with your [Emperor]. But while we wait, we all have services to offer. I, for instance, sell tea.”

“Tea?”

Prost stared at Eloise. So did much of the crowd. The woman smiled, completely at ease with the incredulous looks.

“Teas, tonics, and treatments for what ails a body. Come to me if you seek a [Healer]’s remedies. For tooth rot or just company. I do enjoy chatting. My fellow [Witches] offer different things. Mavika wishes to be assured that she will have the right to offer her abilities to others.”

“Which are?”

Prost looked at Mavika. The [Witch] grinned.

“My flock will clear your fields, [Steward]. Or eliminate pests. I can call fortune or misery. But I must be paid. Worth for work fairly done. Will you gainsay it?”

The man chewed this over and then shook his head.

“No. But remember this. Steal, harm, or threaten others in Riverfarm and the surrounding area, and you will answer to me. The same as anyone else. You may practice your business so long as it is fairly done. As long as it does not harm anyone else. Or you will leave or be dealt with. Is that clear?”

Mavika eyed him. The crows cawed and flapped their wings. But at last, Mavika dipped her head once.

“Very well. I am agreed until a further pact is struck.”

Prost nodded as well. Ryoka thought that was the end of it, but one last woman stepped forwards. Hedag. She boomed as Prost turned to look at her, vexed.

“Mister Steward! You call on us not to harm a hair on another soul’s head. But it is my business to harm and help. I fear I’ll break your laws and do it again and again! So, I call on the rights of my other class. [Executioner].”

An uneasy stir ran back through the crowd. Prost frowned.

“Meaning? You aren’t going to execute—”

A booming laugh interrupted him. Hedag slapped her chest as she guffawed.

“Of course not! Dead gods, but it’s been long since I walked places so near to civilization. Is Riverfarm so close you’ve forgotten my role? The axe is a last resort. But I call on my other duties! Judge and arbiter. Where there are crimes, I find them. Do you know me, Mister Steward?”

“I know your name. And your reputation.”

The [Witch] nodded proudly.

“Just so, then. I am Hedag alone. And you have your laws, and I bring mine. Will you let me work here? I will cut no man or woman down. But I will not promise to leave those that need my craft unscathed.”

She gestured around. Ryoka didn’t know what that meant, but Prost did. So did some of the villagers. They looked at each other a touch uneasily, Ryoka thought, but most glanced at Hedag, mouthed her name, and their resolve firmed.

Who was she? What were her other tasks? Ryoka didn’t know, but Prost nodded after only a beat.

“I grant you leave, then. But whatever you do, Miss Hedag, it will be alone.”

“Fairly said.”

The [Witch] swept her hat off and bowed once. Beatica spluttered at this.

“Steward Prost! You can’t just let that woman—”

“Councilwoman Beatica, silence!”

Prost snapped back. The woman shut up, affronted. Prost shook his head.

“I know who Hedag is. And if she has a rank, it is that of Watch Captain. You may not know of her, but I do. As do many from villages like Riverfarm, I’ll wager. If I were you, Councilwoman Beatica, I would educate yourself about how we do things in villages far from your rule of law. Now, that’s all! This gathering is adjourned. Back to your tasks if you have them! I need men to take care of the body at the pillories. We’ll sort out the rest, and you’ll hear what happens over your supper! Clear the street! Wiskeria, Lady Rie, Durene, with me please. Ram! Helm! Beycalt! Get your folks to work! Now!”

His words broke up the scene at last. Ryoka saw people start and glance around uneasily, but Prost was already striding forwards, chivvying them off, reminding them that they had places to be, jobs to do. He was decisive! The [Witches] gathered around Wiskeria as she pointed at the hats, still clearly distressed. And Ryoka hesitated. Someone poked her in the side, and she yelped.

“Gah—Charlay!”

The Centauress looked delighted at Ryoka’s reaction. She tried to poke again, and Ryoka slapped her hand down. The Centauress gestured at the village.

“This is so weird. I’ve never been to a place like this! Have you ever seen so many [Witches]? I just know Alevica…um, are you going to talk to them?”

“Probably.”

Ryoka glanced at the coven. Charlay pawed the ground uneasily.

“We’re just here to deliver your package, right?”

Ryoka sighed.

“Sort of. Look, I need to talk to—”

“Dead gods, is that a Centaur?”

Someone finally noticed Charlay. The Centauress’ head swung around.

“That’s right! And it’s a Centauress! Who’s asking?”

Some heads turned to stare. Ryoka sighed, but then she saw Prost heading her way. He’d noticed her. Durene spotted Ryoka at last, and her eyes widened.

“Ryoka? Ryoka Griffin?”

“Who’s that? Someone you know, Durene?”

The [Lady] peered at Ryoka as the three came her way. Durene seemed stunned.

“Yes! Ryoka met Laken back in Invrisil. But I didn’t think—wait, did Laken send you, Ryoka?”

Her eyes widened. Heads turned, and Ryoka saw some other villagers turn and point.

“That’s her! The Runner who came during the winter—”

Durene, Rie, and Prost came to a stop in front of Ryoka and Charlay. The Asian girl coughed, feeling embarrassed by the attention. She smiled weakly at Prost. He was surprised to see her too.

“Hi. Mister Prost. Uh, hi, Durene?”

“Miss Ryoka. It’s a pleasure to meet you. But what brings you here? Did His Majesty—”

Prost’s eyes flicked towards Ryoka, then Charlay. Ryoka nodded. She fished in her pouch for the potions.

“That’s right. I have a delivery and, uh—”

Prost halted her with a hand. He glanced at Rie, and she nodded. The man turned back.

“Later. We have to hear what His Majesty sent with you. Or…why you’re here. Lady Rie, we should meet in the throne room in a few minutes. Once the crowd has cleared—”

“Of course. This way, Miss Ryoka. And…is your friend with you?”

Rie looked at Charlay uncertainly. Ryoka hesitated and then nodded.

“Sure. Yes.”

She gazed at Durene. The half-Troll girl was staring. Ryoka uncertainly followed Lady Rie, and Durene looked around. Wiskeria was still just holding the hats. Belavierr bent.

“Daughter. My great work was undone in moments. I was nibbled upon as I slept. At long last, my death once again walks this world, and it—he—burns.”

Witch Wiskeria barely looked up at the incredible address. She lifted a bloodstained hat, grim and sad.

“That’s nice, Mother. I knew these [Witches]. I grieve for them all. Which great work was it? The Helpful Servants? I never liked them.”

“Yes. And more. My craft itself was devoured. My very soul was defiled by strange mice. Nibbling as I dreamed.”

The other [Witches] turned abruptly and fell silent. Ryoka rubbed at her ears. This [Witch] was an aberration among already strange women. When she spoke—

Ryoka felt as though great things had come to pass, not all good. Yet Wiskeria didn’t trivialize them so much as…she looked up and frowned.

“Are you talking about literal mice? Or metaphorical ones.”

The tall [Witch]’s face never moved, never shifted. But she did pause a second and then murmured.

“Metaphorical. Naught one I caught, though I cast a thousand nets of curse and spell and ward. Beyond even ghosts, who returned to walk Noelictus.”

Wiskeria blinked, and she half-turned, then looked down at the bloody hats again.

“Real ghosts? Mother—this is all fascinating. I’m sorry you’re mortal again, but let me grieve for the dead.”

Wiskeria’s eyes were filled with tears as she held one of the pointed hats. Belavierr paused.

“I searched for you when you left, Daughter.”

“Not very hard or you would have found me. Don’t pretend this is just for me, Mother. I heard you claiming sanctuary. Leave Riverfarm out of it.”

Ryoka couldn’t tell if—it was the strangest conversation between mother and daughter she’d ever heard. Familiar, and yet they were so distant in a way that it hurt. Wiskeria was running her fingers over a hole in one of the hats, and Belavierr kept talking.

“I take it you are well? You appear to be well.”

Ryoka saw Wiskeria’s head snap up, her eyes flashing.

“I’m fine. How’s Ostevien?”

Another name Ryoka didn’t know, but Wiskeria spat that word out with such intensity…Eloise twitched slightly, and each [Witch] save Alevica and Nanette reacted visibly to the name. Califor with a deep frown, Eloise with an indrawn breath, Hedag with a grimace, and Mavika with a bright stare for both [Witches].

And Belavierr said:

“…Who?”

Her face was completely blank. Wiskeria whirled, face filled with fury.

“That’s what I thought. Begone, Mother! Once, I banish you, for you did not come here for me. Twice, I banish you, because you do not even know his name. Thrice, I banish you, because I am busy and we have naught to say. Leave.”

Then she lifted the brim of her hat, and Ryoka saw magic. Not a flash of light or incantation, but the simplest of things.

Wiskeria tipped up her hat, squared her shoulders, and gave Belavierr a damn strong shove. Despite their huge difference in sizes, Belavierr stumbled backwards a step. She took one step back—then another—then caught herself, oddly strained, as if holding herself in place.

“You have improved your craft, Daughter.”

“Oh, please.”

Wiskeria rolled her eyes. She looked disgusted, annoyed, and even embarrassed and angry by Belavierr’s presence. The taller [Witch] stood there a second, and only then did Ryoka see how she was now angled forwards, as if a great wind were blowing her back.

People stared; Belavierr shouldn’t have been able to lean forwards like that in the air, as if braced, without something pushing her. But there was no wind, no pressure…then Ryoka saw the woman’s boots skidding slightly on the street.

Something was pushing her back, but the great [Witch] barely acknowledged it. She took in her daughter—then turned, slowly, and began to walk away.

One of the [Witches], the short Eloise, broke the silence as Belavierr retreated, striding away through Riverfarm.

“Hundred Kings of Terandria, I cannot believe that worked. I thought she was unbanishable.”

Witch Califor nodded, eyes on the distant figure.

“She allowed it. Even she must obey laws. Most of the time. A quite effective banishment, Witch Wiskeria. Old and direct. May we speak?”

At this, Witch Wiskeria turned and, remembering the other [Witches], doffed her hat and bowed.

“Witches Califor, Hedag, Mavika, Eloise, Alevica, and Nanette—I am truly sorry. I did not mean to be so rude when you approached me. I thought I was being inducted into Mavika’s coven and did not know the circumstances.”

Her head turned, and Wiskeria gazed blankly at the hats. Hedag bowed her head, her smile vanishing.

“A mess it is, and let all be forgiven that can be! Your mother and the hunting of [Witches]. Poor girl. Come here, Witch Wiskeria.”

She swept the younger woman up in a hug. Wiskeria yelped, and Durene saw Califor sigh.

“We may speak later. My concern is where we will be sleeping. It would be preferable to rent a house in the village; if not, we shall camp. Let us organize that, then—”

The [Witches] marched straight towards Prost. He was busy arguing with Rodivek and Beatica, sending people back to work, organizing a burial for Elmmet—and Durene stood there. She stared around. Then at the young woman. This was Laken’s help?

“Ryoka?”



—–



Later that day, Ryoka sat in Durene’s cottage. She blinked around the small hut, stared at the bed Durene had given her. And at the Centauress trying to lie down on it.

“It’s big enough for me, but it’s not comfy. Hey, do you have any more blankets, Ryoka? We should get some more from the village. Ooh! Wait a second! Suddenly it feels soft! Is this a Skill? A magic bed?”

The delighted Centauress was wriggling on the wide bed. Ryoka looked at her own smaller cot set up next to it. It did feel ludicrously soft for what was a sleeping bag on a hardwood floor. Durene paused as she fed Frostwing.

“That’s Laken’s Skill. [Blessing of the Hearth]. You’ll sleep like babies even on hay. Want another blanket? Sorry it’s so cramped.”

“Nope! I like it! This is better than most inns! The bed feels amazing! Hey, Ryoka, does your bedding feel like that?”

Ryoka glanced up at Charlay. She blinked twice, then nodded.

“Yup. Feels nice. Charlay, why are you taking Durene’s bed?”

The Centauress paused.

“Because she offered it? She said she’s okay with sleeping on the floor! Why? You want to gamble for it? I could toss a coin. Best three out of five?”

She reached for her money pouch. Ryoka shook her head.

“Why are you here? I told you, I’m staying.”

The Centauress paused.

“Right. You did say that. Well—it seemed interesting. So I’m staying too!”

She grinned at Ryoka. The young woman shook her head. But she couldn’t argue. It had been an interesting meeting. Not exactly reassuring on any side, but interesting—



—–



The throne room had an actual throne. Ryoka stared at it while she waited for Rie and Durene and Prost to come back. It was carved, wooden, yes, but it was ornate. Someone had worked hard on it. An actual damn throne. She had forgotten, but Laken was an [Emperor]. And the people here believed it.

Charlay whistled as she trotted up to the throne and inspected it.

“Wow. An [Emperor]. I heard rumors, but I didn’t believe it! And you know this Human, Ryoka?”

“Sort of. It’s a long story.”

“Really? Well, tell it to me! This is all very interesting. Hey, do you think I’ll fit on this thing?”

Charlay looked at Ryoka as she turned around and backed up. Ryoka bit her tongue, trying not to laugh as the Centauress maneuvered her behind towards the throne.

“Don’t you dare. They’ll kill us. And you’ll never fit!”

“Hah! Watch me—”

That was how Rie, Prost, and Durene found the two. Ryoka trying to persuade Charlay to get off Laken’s throne. As first impressions went—well, she’d had hers with Prost and Durene already.

After a short explanation, Rie was on the same page. The [Lady] stared at Ryoka. They’d relocated to her home by now, and an embarrassed Charlay was being made to sit on the ground. She was so embarrassed at being caught she didn’t object for once.

“So. Emperor Godart’s help that Durene requested showed up in the form of a few low-grade potions. Which was mainly to prompt your arrival.”

She gestured at the small collection of bottles and vials on the table in front of her. Ryoka nodded.

“That’s right. I got a message asking me to come to Riverfarm because there was…trouble. Laken didn’t say, but he implied it.”

He’d actually used some pithy German amid the contents of the message. Ryoka wasn’t sure exactly what he’d said, but she recognized some of the words and had gotten the gist. He was worried, and he had sent her. Only, she hadn’t known what to expect, and the others certainly hadn’t expected her. Rie stared at Ryoka, drumming her painted nails on the table, heedless of the damage to them.

“He sent you.”

“Uh, yeah.”

Ryoka scratched her head. After the [Witches], she had to admit, she wasn’t much. Prost, on the other hand, seemed reassured. He spread his callused palms on the table.

“I think it was the right move.”

“You do?”

Durene blinked. She had been watching Ryoka from the start. Ryoka vaguely remembered her from her encounter in Invrisil. Only, she remembered a very protective Durene, who had seemed jealous of Ryoka even getting near Laken. This Durene was quieter. And she had a scar, a thick, deep one half-concealed by her sleeveless working tunic. But Prost, the [Steward] was decisive. He was certainly far different from the cold man grateful for food in his ruined village. He nodded to Durene and Rie.

“Miss Ryoka brought Riverfarm food when the village was starving for it. She ran through the winter, through one of the worst blizzards I’ve ever seen, to bring it here, and I’d trust her with any delivery.”

He looked at Ryoka, and she squirmed, embarrassed. Then she remembered. It had been Ivolethe and the other Frost Faeries who’d helped her on that run. Prost noted the way Ryoka sobered and nodded.

“Did His Majesty send you with anything else? Any messages, Miss Griffin?”

“No. Just a request to help. And I will if I can.”

“How, exactly? Are you some kind of [Steward] yourself? A manager of people? You’re a City Runner, yes? Not a Courier? No offense, Miss Griffin, but I cannot understand what His Majesty was thinking.”

Rie looked exasperated as she put one finger to her lips, staring at Ryoka. The young woman returned the gaze. Rie was striking. Ryoka had no idea how Laken had met her, but the woman’s careful makeup, her dress, and her bearing didn’t fit in Riverfarm. But she seemed to be all aboard Team Laken, so Ryoka weighed her response before replying carefully.

“I’m…an acquaintance of Laken’s. Personally.”

Durene knew that. But Prost and Rie exchanged a quick glance. Rie’s eyes widened a bit, and she sat forwards. Now, Ryoka felt the [Lady]’s attention fix on her like a spotlight.

“I see. From his nation? His, ah, homeland? In…Chandrar?”

The question was probing. Ryoka smiled at Durene and shook her head warningly.

“I’m an acquaintance of Laken’s. I helped him out once. And you’re one of his vassals?”

The woman pursed her lips.

“I am Lady Rie Valerund, yes. Last of the Valerund house. I owe His Majesty a great debt after he saved me from a Goblin attack on my mansion.”

Ryoka nodded amiably.

“In that case, I’ll let, uh, Emperor Laken explain it to you. If he thinks you should know. As for what I’ll be doing—I have no idea. But as I said, I’ll help however I can. If you’ll let me.”

She saw Rie’s affronted look at the shut-down response. Durene just smiled happily. Prost nodded.

“Of course. And you’re welcome to stay as long as you want. More than welcome. We’ll put you up in a house. We’re already arranging some for the [Witches]—”

“She can stay at my cottage. I have room. And I can sleep on the floor.”

Durene interjected quickly. Ryoka blinked at her. That was unusually friendly. Rie threw up her hands in disgust.

“Fine! By all means, let us include Miss Ryoka in our proceedings. I have to think the [Witches] matter more. Miss Ryoka, please share anything you have to offer.”

She sighed. Then she seemed to remember the Centauress sipping tea and munching on some bread and cheese. Rie stared at Charlay along with Prost and Durene.

“And who are you, Miss?”

The Centauress waved her hand.

“I’m Charlay, known as the Dustrider. City Runner, one of the best. Hi.”

“She’s following me. Uh—she’s not related to Laken.”

“I see.”

Rie had to sit back and massage her temples. She looked helplessly at Prost.

“We need to discuss the ramifications of these—[Witches]. And whether it’s really wise to let them stay unchecked until His Majesty returns? Let alone what Miss Griffin can offer…but Wiskeria is still absent. Talking with those—with her coven. Should we wait for her? I think it would be wise. But what does it all mean, Mister Prost? I can’t fathom it.”

“Me neither. But we’ll do that. For now, let’s just get folks settled. I’m going to go round talking with anyone who wants to know about Elmmet. Reassure them about the [Witches]. Durene, get Miss Ryoka and Miss Charlay settled in your cottage. We’ll meet tonight, if Wiskeria’s able. Tomorrow at earliest, if not.”

“Okay.”

Durene seemed relieved and nodded energetically. Ryoka admired Prost’s decisiveness. Rie was clearly overwhelmed, but the [Steward] was a former [Farmer]. He had a [Farmer]’s practicality. So she got up, followed Durene as Charlay grabbed some more bread and cheese—



—–



And now they were here. Durene gestured around the cottage, clearly embarrassed by the space. It wasn’t actually that cramped with three people in it; Durene had built it for herself, and she needed more room than most. Still, she was sleeping in the kitchen while Ryoka and Charlay occupied the actual bedroom. And there was a tent outside where Wiskeria was sleeping!

“So…what have you been doing since I last saw you? A lot’s happened.”

Durene sat on one of her kitchen chairs. Staring at Ryoka. The young woman sat up on the bed.

“A lot.”

“Right. A lot’s happened over here. Goblins and a war and…Laken’s gone. He’s coming back. With Goblin prisoners, but he was at Liscor.”

“I heard about that.”

Charlay, laying on the bed, swiveled her head from Ryoka to Durene. The young woman stared at Durene. She didn’t know her that well, and Durene clearly felt it. She looked—awkward.

“Um. Last time we met, I remember being a bit—”

“Don’t worry about it. I was pretty bad myself. A lot’s changed. Do you—want to talk about it?”

“Yes. Uh—why don’t we have a drink? I can make some tea. I have a kettle—move out of the way, Frostwing!”

She shooed the brilliantly blue bird, and Ryoka heard a screech. She stared at Frostwing. So did Charlay.

“That’s a big, blue bird.”

“Yup.”

Durene waved a hand airily.

“That’s Frostwing. You remember her, right, Ryoka?”

“I do. She was a lot…smaller back then. But I do remember her.”

Ryoka accepted a cup of hot, somewhat weak tea from Durene. She handed it to Charlay, took the second one, and sat down. Durene sat opposite her. There was a murmur of thanks, sipping, silence.

“So about what happened here. Well, we had Goblins—uh, do you know about the mountain raids? Well, what we had—”

“Oh, yeah! And I, uh, well, I was running a lot after I left Riverfarm. And, uh, I’m still running, basically. I work around Reizmelt. Ever heard of it? No? Well, they call me the, uh, Wind Runner—”

“I’m Charlay.”

The conversation started and stopped. One side talked, the other side listened. Ryoka heard Durene talk about Riverfarm and the battle and watched the half-Troll girl’s face. Durene did the same to her.

It was awkward. They really weren’t friends. And Ryoka, for all her best efforts, couldn’t figure out what to really say to Durene. By the time they were on their third cups of tea and feeling it, they had nothing more to say. Durene stared at Ryoka.

“So Laken sent you. And you really don’t have any plan? He didn’t tell you anything? Maybe there was a clue in what he wrote.”

Ryoka shook her head.

“I don’t think there was. At least—I looked for it, but I think he just wanted me to come here. I have no idea what to do. But it seems like I got here just in time.”

“Right. Well—I’m sure Rie and Mister Prost will want your help. And, uh, if you think of anything, let us know! Wiskeria’s going to tell us what her coven’s here for. Tomorrow. I haven’t seen her; she must be talking with them still. I’ll introduce her. She’s a [Witch] and the [General] of Riverfarm’s army, like I said.”

“Got it. I’ll do my best.”

That was it. Durene nodded, then excused herself to use her outhouse. Charlay and Ryoka exchanged a glance. The Centauress put her cup down.

“That was awkward.”

“Yup.”

Charlay peered at Ryoka and shook her head.

“You have no idea what you’re doing here, do you?”

“Nope.”

“Great. You Humans are so weird.”

The Centauress snorted. Ryoka couldn’t really argue that point at the moment. She lay back in her sleeping bag and stared up at the ceiling. What a mess. What could she do? Why was Charlay still here? Her mind was whirling. And then Charlay spoke up.

“…Hey, is that a bear in the window or is that just me?”

Ryoka glanced over and then recoiled in alarm. Bismarck stared at the two and paused in sticking his tongue towards a basket of food Durene had brought from the village. The two stared at the Mossbear in horror until Durene came back in. She eyed them, spotted Bismarck, and slapped the bear gently before pushing him out.

“Bismarck! That’s our food! Get back to your den! I already fed you! Sorry, that’s Bismarck, you two. He’s Laken’s other pet. Mossbear.”

Charlay and Ryoka gaped at each other. Silently, and in unison, they decided to go to bed. Ryoka rolled up and found that her sleeping bag really was the most comfortable thing in existence. She almost immediately began to drift off, but her mind was still racing.

[Witches], a [Lady], a [Farmer] turned into a [Steward]. A Troll-girl with a giant bear for a pet and a blue bird, and a village. A missing [Emperor].

Ryoka nodded to herself. Yup, that about summed it up. Welcome to Riverfarm. She lay back and closed her eyes. After a moment, she realized something else.

Charlay was a loud snorer. So was Durene.





Night 56 – Wiskeria



They didn’t gather in secret. The moons were not gibbous or full in any particularly significant combination. And nor was this a time of ritual, of significance. Well—[Witches] had died, but it was too far away for this coven to make use of their deaths. If they had even that inclination.

So it wasn’t a particularly notable gathering. Yet it was. Oh, it was. Wiskeria could feel it in the air as she stood in the simple home that had been afforded to Miss Califor and Nanette.

The first thing the [Witches] had done was actually secure lodgings. Prost had been willing to give them some of the newer houses without payment for the moment, and the [Witches] had moved into their lodgings, checked out the village, and settled themselves before proper conversation was had. It was just common sense.

Eloise and Hedag had their own house despite one being large enough for all seven in theory. Mavika and Alevica shared another, although Wiskeria was fairly certain Mavika would not be sleeping in the village.

And Belavierr? A house unto herself. Wiskeria wondered if her mother would make much use of it either. She did sleep. But Wiskeria had known her all her life. And Belavierr made Mavika look mundane.

Covens drew power from many things. The cycles of the moon. Significance. And yes, death. It should not have been a powerful gathering. But the six [Witches] in the room besides Wiskeria positively reeked of power. (Nanette was already in bed since it was late.)

They had gathered close to midnight. Wiskeria could feel the hum of magic in the air. And—purpose. Each [Witch] was powerful and famous in her way such that Wiskeria knew them even if she’d never met most personally. Only Nanette and Alevica didn’t fit; Wiskeria knew Alevica’s master, the Witch Oliyaya, though.

So what was the purpose of this meeting? What did they do? They sat at Califor’s table and sipped Eloise’s tea. There were also biscuits, as freshly baked as one wanted. The sight of Mavika perching on a chair, nibbling a biscuit, was only matched by Alevica sitting with a cup of tea and biscuit in hand, trying to look pleasant. It was funny—until you remembered what they could do. Wiskeria didn’t smile.

She had been weeping. It felt appropriate this time, and she had not had to try for the tears.

[Witches] were dead. Ones she’d known and liked, friends, were dead.

Wiskeria had held Tillica’s hat. The motherly [Witch] who had welcomed Wiskeria to Izril was dead, like the others Wiskeria had shared friendships and conversations with over eight years.

Dead, just like that, but for Mavika. Wiskeria might have mourned as long as she felt was needed, but she could not take the time to weep now. Vengeance could not wait. And she had to know why the others were here.



——



What did the other [Witches] see when they regarded Wiskeria around the table? They were all present, save for two. Nanette was sleeping upstairs. Belavierr was not present.

She had not been invited. She was still, technically, banished, though how long she would allow it was uncertain.

So, it was Mavika, gaunt and seemingly-frail until you saw the sinew, sipping from the teacup.

Eloise, a contrast, the very image of a lovely grandmotherly woman, hat covered with flowers, with an elegance to her movements as she poured tea.

Hedag, blunt, but not unrefined in her way. Travel-worn, but dignified, largest of the lot, smiling around, authority in her words and laughter.

Alevica, youngest of the lot, full of vinegar and her own confidence—yet eying each face and finding all of them imposing, save for perhaps Wiskeria.

And that was the biggest mistake, for Wiskeria, blue-haired, bespectacled, with her plain robes, seemed much less a witch than the others. But Wiskeria was Belavierr’s daughter, and even if that was only infamy by proxy—no one should underestimate that.

The last witch was, of course, Califor, whose mental image of herself was a straight-backed woman in her chair, less graceful than Eloise, perhaps—it was hard to match her in such moments—but, Califor hoped, dignified nonetheless. Alevica kept sneaking looks at Califor as if expecting the other witch to burst into proclamations or cast a spell.

That was the problem with reputations. Califor’s own clothing and staff were hardly more pristine than Hedag’s. Her image of herself was of a woman in her, oh, thirties, still striding around figuring things out. When she eyed herself in the reflection of her tea, she disliked the natural grey, even if it added to one’s supposed gravitas.

Six witches. Not seven. Numbers didn’t matter that much for conversation. The first thing to do was ensure everyone understood what was going on.

“They called themselves the Circle of Thorns. A secret name, one we have heard times before.”

Mavika spoke first. She scattered crumbs as she spoke, chewing, eating. Her eyes were dark like the birds she could summon. The others nodded. Only Wiskeria looked around quizzically.

“The Circle of Thorns. Who are they?”

Hedag leaned on the table. Her expression was grim. Flinty. She nodded to Califor.

“An old group. Or young! Depending on how you look at it. They were before my time, but Mavika remembers them. Perhaps Witch Belavierr might as well. A group of nobles. I suppose they style themselves as secretive, but the name’s plenty to remember.”

“Would you remember anything like that, Wiskeria, my dear?”

Eloise filled Wiskeria’s cup, and Califor watched Wiskeria smile politely. But guarded. Wiskeria sipped, frowned, and then exhaled.

“This is excellent tea, Witch Eloise. My mother? No…but she never told me stories of every would-be cult or secret society. If I don’t know them, they probably weren’t very dangerous. Or she just didn’t mention them.”

“Great, so you have no idea. Got it.”

Alevica sardonically added a splash of whiskey into her cup, earning her a frown from Eloise—Hedag held out her cup instantly, and Alevica, grimacing, gave her a tot. Eloise sighed.

“Any knowledge is valuable. We might ask Witch Belavierr…should we move onto her? I confess, I thought Agratha would be here.”

“Dead gods, spare me from the Teacher Witch herself. At least this Belavierr’s a truly great witch, right?”

Alevica muttered. Hedag laughed merrily—then realized Alevica was serious. Eloise shot Califor a quick glance, and Mavika peered at Alevica over her cup’s rim.

She must think Belavierr’s the same as us. The thought was entirely amusing—and alarming. For Alevica’s sake, Califor replied directly.

“Belavierr is the [Witch], Alevica. Bar none living. You may not recall your mentor’s stories of witches. Ask Witch Oliyaya who Belavierr is. Be respectful around her. More than you would be to Mavika or Witch Oliyaya herself. Or myself, for that matter. Throw tea at me, but treat Witch Belavierr with every old custom.”

Alevica’s mouth opened. She stared at Califor, whose stories she did seem to know, and then at Wiskeria.

Califor wished Oliyaya had felt able to come, but if Agratha had been here, the stakes would have been significantly lower, and the two would have fought like Wyvern and Griffin. So, this had been a calculated, diplomatic move in a game of cards…right up until someone had kicked the table over and started rolling dice on the floor.

Mavika continued the conversation as if no one had interrupted.

“I do not know why Tillica summoned the coven. Perhaps she was forced. Perhaps she erred, for I was not present. Without me, this ‘Circle’ committed dark deeds by moonlight. I came too late and repaid only blood with blood. Yet the offer I do know; I took it from my sister’s dying lips and the screams of fools before they died.”

Grim. Califor had no doubt those who had slaughtered the Marshlands Coven had died painfully. Alevica looked excited and intimidated by turns. Wiskeria just nodded, unmoved in satisfaction or grief.

The contrast between the two was marked. Mavika went on.

“The demands were simple and direr still. They called for a curse upon Magnolia Reinhart and her kin. A spell so powerful and so foul that she would die screaming, boiled by her very skin.”

Mavika looked unconcerned by the spell. Wiskeria shuddered.

“Are they stupid? Dead gods, the amount of effort that would take—could they even do that, even with you, Mavika? No wonder the Marshlands Coven refused. Even if they succeeded, then what?”

Califor nodded, replying in a clipped tone.

“It would be war against [Witches] as in times past. But it seems it was war either way. This Circle’s actions come during a rash of reprisals against witches. Many have been chased from their homes or even killed.”

Wiskeria’s eyes narrowed.

“Why?”

Hedag chuckled.

“Ah, Wiskeria. That’s the rotten peach in the middle of our pies. Why? It might be partly this Circle or the changing of times. But most of it—dare I say almost all!—is due to stories come from the north this past winter and spring. The deeds of one of us reflect on all. And in this case…”

Wiskeria shut her eyes tight.

“Mother. She didn’t say, but it had to be truly terrible for her to leave her domain. She never left Terandria if she could help it when she was raising me. What did she do?”

“More appropriately, the question is how was she bested.”

Eloise murmured. Alevica’s head was swinging blankly from face to face, clearly not keeping up, but Wiskeria just laughed.

“No one bests my mother. She’d eat them. Did the Hero of Zethe come back to life and fight her? I haven’t heard of a nation collapsing; how did anyone stop her?”

Her mirth faded as the other witches remained silent. So that was how Wiskeria thought of Belavierr? It was not entirely inaccurate to rely on stories.

Califor had never met Belavierr before. So her sense of caution increased tenfold, especially because Mavika, quick to call out anything she saw as a lie or even untruth, was ominously silent as Wiskeria chuckled.

Still, the younger [Witch] did not have all the facts, and she gazed around as Califor cleared her throat.

“That is something I would dearly like to know myself. Hearing the story from Witch Belavierr would be enlightening. What I do know is that a nation did not fall to send her fleeing—but it was close. She was defeated, a village laid to ruin, and those ‘Helpful Servants’ disbanded as an organization entirely. More than that, I will not gossip, except to say that while only rumors have reached Izril’s shores…rumors are enough to remind folk of the past.”

“Ignorant idiots talking about ‘evil witches’. Most just need a hex to remind them to watch their tongues.”

Alevica snorted into her cup. Hedag gave her a friendly buffet with one hand, and Alevica cursed, almost went for a dagger—and stopped under Califor’s reproving glare. Eloise gave Hedag a firm look, and the Hedag was unmoved.

Different personalities. Califor lifted a hand for peace, and the [Witches] relaxed as Eloise passed over a handkerchief.

“Memory is an interesting thing, Witch Alevica. Remembering the ill deeds of our predecessors is fair. The hysteria? The hunting? Perhaps not. But it was Belavierr who was the catalyst…”

“…and my mother deserves every story about her. Each and every one. Oh no. What did she do?”

Wiskeria buried her head in her hands. Now she saw the problem. The very same origin of the problems facing the [Witches] of Izril had just come here.

“Our presence was meant to alleviate the issues facing the witches of Izril, Wiskeria. It seems we must now reckon with our goals—and Witch Belavierr. We would greatly appreciate your aid, with the former if not the latter.”

Eloise broke in, and Wiskeria’s head rose. Now her gaze was focused, and she gave the others a wary stare.

“Why do you want to meet Laken? He is an [Emperor], you know.”

She was protective! Califor raised her brows as Mavika reached for another biscuit. Who could inspire Belavierr’s daughter to a kindly word? Mavika didn’t seem to care and croaked at Wiskeria.

“We know. And that authority is his to claim. We care not for it, only what it may offer. All that passes comes again. It matters not what nations rise or fall. Only that [Witches] do not meet their end.”

“So why—”

“Sanctuary.”

And then she was there! Califor had hold of her walking staff and Hedag had her axe before they could stop themselves.

Belavierr, the one they called the Witch of Webs, who had many names besides—was standing in the dining room, a teacup in hand, black porcelain with golden symbols on it, face blank, but mimicking the postures of the others.

She hadn’t come through the door that Califor had sensed; it hadn’t been a shadow-leaping Skill or spell. One second she wasn’t there, the next—

Alevica crashed backwards with an oath, and Eloise jerked backwards, staring at Belavierr. She had entered Eloise’s craft without a single problem, even gotten ahold of Eloise’s tea!

Wiskeria jumped a second, then scowled at her mother.

“I thought I banished you.”

“So you did, Daughter. I have been banished. Now I return. We seek sanctuary, do we not? This is the pact to be struck; this coven is united in purpose. Sanctuary for [Witches]. Now we seven meet. Under midnight’s auspices. I have sacrificed no blood this night nor hung around my neck goat’s feet. So small deeds shall be wrought before we sleep.”

Belavierr’s orange eyes flashed as Califor forced herself to sit down.

“Unless, of course, my coven demands. Then let the hours be long and shadows further deep.”

Style, of a kind. Old words, far older than Califor, the kind witches these days would say and chuckle over. But Belavierr meant them. Wiskeria rolled her eyes and muttered.

“You’re showing off.”

The other [Witches] were silent until Califor nodded at Belavierr and adjusted her hat.

“Welcome, Witch Belavierr. You are of course right, and the coven’s task is purely that. Sanctuary.”

Belavierr’s eyes flicked to Califor, and she inclined her head.

“As you say, Witch. Do you lead this coven?”

“I do. I am Witch Califor.”

“As you say, Witch Califor. I have come, so I accede. How shall it be done?”

The others watched as Belavierr put down her cup and picked up a biscuit. The tea was untouched. Belavierr stared at the tea cup and biscuit as if she had never known thirst nor hunger. Her gaze towards Califor was as indifferent as it was towards the wall.

Only when it came to Wiskeria did that gaze shift ever-so-slightly. Wiskeria returned that glowing stare. She truly was Belavierr’s daughter. The one, the only one there ever had been in the entire lifetime of the Stitch Witch herself.

And that lifetime had been…

Califor was tempted to ask questions, but Belavierr did not waste words.

“That is why we have come. To call on this [Emperor] for sanctuary for all [Witches] on his lands.”

Wiskeria blinked.

“Wh—all [Witches]? Not just you, Mother?”

Now she saw it. Califor sat back as Hedag laughed gently.

“Not just her. Belavierr means sanctuary and protection, Wiskeria, child. That might apply to me, although I’d be content to roam. No, it just means that, if need be, we can flee here. Rally, knowing there’s an army at our backs. It might be a small army, to look at this village!”

“Not just an army, but the protection of his name.”

Eloise swirled the tea in her cup gently. She nodded to Wiskeria, smiling.

“It is a risk, but this [Emperor] may gain more power. And if he needs us, if we strike a deal, it would be the first noble or city to openly ally with our kind in an age, Wiskeria, my dear. That’s what brings this coven to you.”

“So you want me to intercede with him. Why all come yourselves, then? I could do that myself if you sent a letter.”

Wiskeria breathed out. Califor replied evenly.

“Because we represent what Emperor Godart stands to gain, Wiskeria. We must prove our value. Besides, one [Witch]’s word has weight, but we represent the interest of all our covens. Witch Wiskeria, this is not the decision of just some of the [Witches] of Izril.”

Wiskeria’s eyes widened.

“Wait—you mean all of them?”

The seven nodded slowly. Wiskeria shivered suddenly and felt at the goosebumps on her arms.

“That can’t be! Laken could…with that kind of…how dangerous is the Circle of Thorns?”

All eyes turned to Mavika and Belavierr. Mavika shrugged, hunched.

“I remember them once. Two generations hence, when they slew members of the Five Families. Old blood, old feuds spilling onto the earth. A time of shadows and death. Unless Witch Belavierr remembers more?”

She peered at Belavierr. Wiskeria’s mother was still staring at Wiskeria. Slowly, she turned her head to Mavika’s. And blinked.

“Do I…know you?”

It was a complete non-sequitur. Mavika herself gave Belavierr a huge stare that was actually hurt. But suddenly, Belavierr tilted her head.

“You are the crow. Witch Mavika. We have met before.”

“Twice.”

“Yes. I know of you.”

You could probably bottle Belavierr saying that and sell it for credibility among other [Witches]. Mavika nodded, shuffling in her perch, and Belavierr kept staring—then sat back.

“The Circle of Thorns. I remember them thrice. They come again and again. And twice, they culled more than their enemies. [Witches] died. War came to Izril from north and south.”

The coven waited. Belavierr paused. She reached down, picked up the tea cup, and sipped from it. Then she began eating the biscuit. Eloise and Hedag traded a glance. Alevica seemed about to laugh, then caught Mavika’s eye and went still. Califor exhaled through her nose and glanced at Wiskeria. Here, at least, Wiskeria needed no prompting. With a tired sigh, she reached out and nudged her mother.

“Mother, how bad was the war? How many [Witches] died?”

Belavierr paused, as if surprised anyone had follow-up questions. She looked up and replied calmly.

“Three thousand, three hundred, and twelve. The war lasted thirty-four years.”

Then there was silence. Belavierr could be vague. But sometimes you asked and wished she didn’t answer. Eloise murmured, counting.

“A war between north and south. It must have been—the Ironbreaker conflict? Zelkyr’s War? Or before it—the Gloaning Foothills invasion? No, that was when Terandria invaded. Too early.”

She gave Califor a curious stare; Eloise had known Califor for as long as Mavika. But she hadn’t seen Califor in, oh…years upon years. Maybe over a decade.

Califor had never had an apprentice until now. Famously so. Nanette was an exception to Califor’s rule; the other [Witch] kept her face impassive, and Eloise went on.

“We may research which war Witch Belavierr mentioned later. It only matters that the Circle of Thorns may endanger [Witches] again. It matters that we not die from any hands. We are fewer than we were in the past. And our magic is weaker.”

“The old ways pass.”

Hedag murmured. She sighed, and the coven sighed too. Wiskeria was familiar with this as well. She saw Alevica rolling her eyes. Mavika noticed that.

“You have something to say, Witch Alevica?”

“Not me, Mavika. Certainly not about the old ways passing, less rituals, or spells being harder to perform. I’m all for dancing around a pot and making a brew.”

Alevica’s impudent tone made Califor scowl and Eloise sigh. Hedag laughed loud enough to wake Nanette. Mavika just stared until Alevica stopped grinning.

“Our magic fades. The Gnolls call this the Waning World. Do you seek to make light of it, Alevica? In times past, [Witches] summoned beings far greater than your skeletons to make good or ill. Our covens stretched from north to south, but those times do not last. Now, [Witches] may breathe our last. Do you make light of it, Witch Alevica?”

Mavika snapped, and in her room, Wiskeria heard Nanette gasp and hide behind the door she was peeking out of. The air around the coven constricted, and Wiskeria felt the air leave her lungs. It was suddenly stifling. Choking—as if feathers were crammed down her throat!

Alevica felt it too. The [Witch] raised a hand—and then glared at Mavika. She didn’t back down, and furious sparks raced down her arms, crackling towards Mavika. In her room, Nanette choked like Wiskeria.

The other [Witches] at the table reacted to the fight in the same moments. Hedag leaned back, grimacing. She just breathed, in, out, in, out, slowly. Eloise did likewise, grimacing, but doing so with far less effort.

Belavierr didn’t even seem to notice. She was staring at Wiskeria. Only when she noticed her daughter’s expression did she glance sideways. Then her fingers twisted. She grasped something, and a bit of thread—Wiskeria felt the pressure on her disappear at once.

And Califor? She was glaring between Alevica and Mavika, put out by the quarrel. Until she glanced up and heard her apprentice choking in her bedroom. Then she stood. She raised her hand and slapped it down on the table.

“Enough.”

The room shook. The gathering power slammed Alevica back against the wall she was leaning against, and Mavika rocked backwards in her chair. At once, the air resumed its normal quality. The two [Witches] stared at Califor. Alevica had a nosebleed from her left nostril. Mavika recoiled and was about to hiss—when she saw Califor staring at her.

There were snapped feathers scattered across the table; Califor swept them onto the floor. Voice milder now, she spoke towards a little shadow shivering at the top of the stairs, breathing in and out frantically.

“Enough. Nanette, go back to sleep.”

Nanette squeaked and fled to her bed at once. Califor whispered and flicked fingers across her eyes. Instantly, she felt her mouth force a yawn out; her target, Nanette, would feel the effects just as strongly, if not more so.

Then Califor fixed on Alevica and Mavika.

“Witch Mavika. You are overzealous in chastising Witch Alevica. She is young, but an equal part of this coven as Oliyaya’s representative and apprentice. Witch Alevica, you were warned. I lead this coven, for now, and I will not gainsay either of your crafts. Mine, however, is to peace and my apprentice’s wellbeing. Conduct your magic elsewhere or I will hold you to account.”

Silently, the two considered Califor and bowed their heads. Eloise put down her cup and nodded.

“I think we are done for now. It is enough that we’ve gathered. And we are not decided yet. We must see if Riverfarm suits us. I suggest we all practice our crafts as we may, take in the strength of this demesne. I sense this [Emperor]’s power. Especially in those totems I passed. But whether it is for [Witches] or not remains to be seen. But we shall discuss it later. For now, let us sleep. Unless anyone objects?”



——



After the brief altercation between Alevica and Mavika, the coven didn’t object to a break.

Wiskeria exhaled slowly, relieved, as the [Witches] stood.

So this was her first real coven, eh? It had all the drama and issues she’d expected of one. For a second she’d thought Alevica would try to fight Mavika—which would have been a mistake. Eloise was the voice of reason they needed in times like this. Every coven had to have someone like that or risk fights and feuds. Mavika, though—Mavika was old. If Alevica had drawn blood, it would have gotten ugly fast. And it had been a minor squabble; Mavika was capable of much more.

Then again, Alevica did seem strong for her age. Strong enough to fly, which few [Witches] could do. And Califor? Wiskeria kept eying Califor as she rose and helped Eloise pack up her cups.

She’d dispelled Mavika’s craft in a single move! True, it was in her house, but even so—Wiskeria’s mother herself had glanced at Califor when she did that.

At any rate, the coven quickly headed to bed. Hedag sighed as she stood, the first to leave. She reached out and held Wiskeria’s shoulder.

“We do bother you, Wiskeria. I apologize for that, but I hope you let us practice our craft on your land.”

The others paused and looked at her. Wiskeria shrugged uncomfortably.

“Of course. So long as you obey Prost’s rules.”

The others nodded, to lesser or greater satisfaction. They walked out one by one. Califor went to check on Nanette, and Wiskeria realized they were leaving her alone with Belavierr. The others in the coven had to know of their relationship, even if some, like Hedag and Eloise, Wiskeria had never met before. But they would know Belavierr and thus Wiskeria. However [Witches], being who they were, wouldn’t meddle. This wasn’t something for a coven. It was…personal.

The two sat alone for a while after the others had left. Wiskeria knew Califor wasn’t listening—but she was probably expecting to sleep sometime tonight. Which meant Wiskeria had to be the first to talk. Belavierr might sit for hours without speaking, just watching Wiskeria over the table. But to her surprise, as she was trying to break the silence, Belavierr spoke.

“Daughter.”

“Mother.”

The two stared at each other. Belavierr nodded.

“…You appear to be well.”

Wiskeria sighed. That was her mother.

“I am well. Why are you here, Mother?”

“Sanctuary. I have told you.”

“I know. But why are you…here, Mother? You could hide in a thousand places. You came for sanctuary and me. I told you I didn’t want to talk to you again.”

Belavierr paused. She looked at Wiskeria, unblinking.

“I care for [Witches]. And for your fate.”

Wiskeria just folded her arms in disgust. She knew Belavierr remembered their last conversation. Her mother paused again.

“You have continued practicing your craft? You should learn while the coven remains here. I could teach you.”

Her daughter’s brow wrinkled in disgust.

“Teach—! Teach me what, exactly? How to become like you? Should I go off and find a Djinni to devour their heart over an altar with a hundred thousand people watching? You don’t practice magic like I do, Mother. Mountains don’t teach gnats magic. And I don’t want to be like you.”

Silence. Belavierr looked Wiskeria up and down. Wiskeria flushed, and Belavierr lifted a finger.

“You are a [Witch] now. But you have no craft. No true passion that defines you. Even the child upstairs has one.”

Another flush. It was true, but Wiskeria snapped back.

“Well, I have you to thank for that. You made me the [Witch] I am.”

So saying, Wiskeria tipped her hat and gave Belavierr her most insulting smile. She hoped it would produce something, but the cutting words didn’t seem to affect her mother in the slightest. They never did. Belavierr frowned.

“I would like you to be a better [Witch]. You still have much to learn. If not from Mavika then…the others.”

“Califor, you mean. The Witch Califor.”

Wiskeria cast a glance upstairs. Belavierr paused.

“Yes.”

“You don’t know who she is.”

“Should I?”

“I’ll bet you every other [Witch] alive knows her name.”

“I am not every other [Witch] alive.”

Belavierr’s tone was so…matter-of-fact. Wiskeria hated it. She’d used to love the way Belavierr spoke in truths and words that made the rest of the world seem too fast, too inconsistent. Yet now, she disliked that slow, almost monotonous tone.

“You’re not even really here, are you? You’re still wrapped up in all your protections.”

At this, Belavierr grimaced. Which did alarm, even frighten Wiskeria. Grimace? By the time Wiskeria had left, Belavierr hadn’t even remembered how to smile.

“They are…destroyed. Burnt and torn and eaten, Daughter.”

Wiskeria sat back down slowly.

“Wait, really? All of them?”

“…Most.”

“You really lost everything?”

Belavierr stared at her black cup, which had the symbols of the Kingdom of Nerrhavia’s Fallen on it. No…wait…it was older than that, probably, a diplomatic incident if anyone knew what they meant. She oozed power; Wiskeria was older now and sensed it from Belavierr, but for all that, she had never been frailer before Wiskeria.

“I was wounded greatly, Daughter. Plans unmade. I have declared one woman my foe. And another pursues me, deathsworn to end my life.”

Wiskeria wondered who was mad enough to have angered her mother. She wavered, trying to smile victoriously, but she only managed the words.

“Well, you deserve the second part of it.”

“Perhaps.”

Wiskeria scowled and dropped the subject for now. It was late, she was tired, and while she had been told she could be annoyingly calm and level—she got only a fraction of that from her mother. She changed subjects, trying to get a rise out of Belavierr.

“I’m a [General] now. What do you think of that?”

“You are a [Witch].”

That was that. The two sat in silence, one glaring, the other just staring. Wiskeria balled her hands into fists.

“I’m warning you, Mother. The coven can stay. That’s fine. I know what they’re like. And I suppose since all [Witches] might die on this continent, you can stay too. But this is my land. Don’t do—anything in this village. I like it here. Don’t be—can you not—”

She trailed off, frustrated. And Belavierr just shook her head. As Wiskeria knew she would.

“I am what I am, Daughter. I cannot change that.”

Wiskeria knew that too. Bitterly, the daughter stared at the mother. And the mother paused, rolled her eyes upwards. At last, she seemed to recall something.

“Do you want anything? Three years have passed since we last met. Do you have a wish? I will grant it if it is within my power.”

“Nothing from you, Mother. Nothing from you.”

And that was it. Belavierr nodded and stood up.

“Then I bid you good night, Witch Wiskeria. I ask you speak well of us to this [Emperor], for we bear the fate of all [Witches] on Izril.”

She tipped her hat and walked out of the house. Wiskeria stayed a moment longer. She was grateful that Miss Califor tactfully remained in Nanette’s room so Wiskeria could wipe away her tears.





Day 57 – Durene



“They’re the best [Witches] on the continent. Maybe the world.”

That was how Wiskeria explained it. She sat in Lady Rie’s house with Prost, Ryoka, Charlay, Rie, and Durene. Technically, Charlay didn’t have to be here, but the Centauress seemed delighted to be included in the conversation.

As Wiskeria stood in front of the table, she looked from Prost to Rie to Durene to Ryoka. Her eyes lingered on the City Runner longest, but she had accepted the explanation about Ryoka very quickly. It was probably the least of the surprises she had experienced of late.

There was a moment of silence as everyone digested Wiskeria’s statement. Then Prost carefully raised a hand.

“By best, Wiskeria, do you mean…”

“I mean they are the best, the highest-leveled, the most dangerous, or just the best, Mister Prost. Each one is a legend. They’re all legends. Except Nanette. She’s Miss Califor’s student, which means she’ll probably be the next Califor. So a legend-in-training since that’s never happened that I can remember. Alevica’s more like a short story as well, I suppose. But her mentor, Witch Oliyaya, fits in with the others.”

Wiskeria sighed as she adjusted her hat. Durene stared at her. The best? The highest-leveled in their class? It was hard to believe. Durene had met…well, she’d heard of some high-level [Farmers], but they were only good locally. The best in the world?

“And they came because of this Circle of Thorns. Because of the…threat to [Witches].”

Rie’s eyes fixed on Wiskeria. The [Witch] nodded, fiddling with her spectacles.

“Among other things. But it’s the pact with Laken that concerns them. They think he has potential. I think they’re united in that, although they might want other things. I’m sure Mavika does. She might want…well, she wants something other than what Califor wants, I’m certain of that.”

That made no sense to Durene, and she was opening her mouth to say so. But then Ryoka leaned in. The young woman had strange skin and features, and she was quite tall—well, for a woman. Durene towered over her still, but she envied Ryoka’s grace. She’d envied a lot of things about her when they first met, come to that. Like her connection with Laken.

They came from another world. Laken had told her. But he had confessed that he didn’t know Ryoka herself that well. Still, she had come when he asked. So Durene listened as Wiskeria turned to face Ryoka.

“Witch Wiskeria, right?”

“You can call me Wiskeria. Witch Wiskeria is only for formality. You should address Califor and Mavika like that. The rest won’t care as much.”

Ryoka nodded, and Durene saw her processing that as her eyes flickered. She looked at Wiskeria thoughtfully.

“Can you explain what [Witches] are in general, Wiskeria? As well as what each of the [Witches] in your coven does? I think that would help us all.”

“Of course. Sorry, I forget it’s not common knowledge. [Witches] are…”

Wiskeria sighed and took off her hat. She inspected it, then put it back on.

“[Witches] are loners. By and large. You know all the basics, I’m sure. We cast spells, we can have familiars—pets—and we can do magic other than [Mage] spells. Magic brews, summonings, séances; our abilities are far more varied than your average [Mage]. But…weaker. Or as Miss Califor would put it, different. Which means weaker in the sense that we can’t throw [Fireballs]. At least, most of us can’t. Alevica probably can.”

Ryoka and Charlay nodded at that. The Centauress mouthed at Durene: I’ve seen it. Wiskeria went on.

“Generally, a [Witch] just…is a [Witch]. She does her business, pursues her passion—which we call her craft—and meets her coven a few times a month at most to exchange news, warnings, trade, and so on. Some of us are even adventurers, like I was. Some can live in towns—it’s rare that any go to cities like Alevica, but it can happen. There’s no rules that say we can’t do much of anything. But there are nuances, I suppose.”

“Such as?”

Ryoka sat forwards, the most interested. Wiskeria frowned.

“Well—[Witches] derive a lot of power from different magic. Uh—grudges. Death. Or life! We need passion for what we do. That’s how we become [Witches]—I don’t think I can explain all of it now…but it means we can be different from each other. Very different.”

Uncomfortably, she shifted her hat again.

“Let me put it like this. If you want to break it down to the most basic element—there are good witches and bad ones. Or maybe it’s better to think of them as ‘selfish’ or ‘generous’.”

“Really?”

Durene saw Ryoka’s eyes narrow. But Durene remembered Chimmy asking Wiskeria if she was a good [Witch] or a bad one. Wiskeria clearly remembered the same thing, because she looked at Durene. Rie coughed delicately.

“And, ah, which would you be, Miss Wiskeria?”

“I suppose I’m a good [Witch], if you want to break it down. What I mean by that is—look, some [Witches] follow rules. They try to help people as much as themselves. That ties into their craft and passion. Other [Witches] don’t. They might help people, but they’ll sometimes do as much harm as good.”

Ryoka scratched her head. Drat. It was never simple.

“So, which are which?”

Prost had a resigned look like he knew what was coming. Wiskeria’s pause this time was telling. She cleared her throat a few times.

“If you want to be simple about it, then the ‘good’ [Witches] are Hedag and Eloise. And Nanette, but she’s young. The ‘bad’ ones, or at least the selfish ones, are Mavika and Alevica and Belavierr.”

Durene looked around. No one was surprised by that, although Prost and Rie were grimacing. Charlay nodded several times when she heard Alevica’s name.

“And Miss Califor?”

“In between. Mostly good, but you hear stories sometimes. She helps those who help themselves. And she has no patience for fools. She’s something of a terror even among other [Witches], actually. She’ll come around if she thinks you’re not behaving properly and sort you out.”

“Ah. So she’s a teacher? A mentor to other [Witches]? What do each of the [Witches] do?”

Wiskeria looked at Ryoka. The two appraised each other, and Wiskeria shrugged.

“You’ve probably guessed some of it. Califor’s good at everything she does. Illusions to charms to basic magic and non-magical things—she’s a teacher, and she sorts problems out. Mavika is her exact opposite. She hates people, but she has control over all kinds of animals. Crows primarily, but she can control rats and snakes too. And I think she can turn into a bird.”

“She can what?”

Prost and Rie shot up in their seats. So did Durene. The half-Troll girl gaped around. Charlay and Ryoka didn’t look surprised. The Centauress shrugged.

“Like a Lizardfolk, I guess.”

Wiskeria shook her head.

“Not exactly. She can turn back.”

Ryoka nodded. She wasn’t shocked at all, and Wiskeria and Durene saw that.

“She’s dangerous?”

“Oh yes. But she’s a traditionalist. Remember what she said about ill for ill? She doesn’t attack people. But, uh, don’t insult her. Hedag’s actually more likely to hit you. Her magic’s not that strong, but she’s a law unto herself in villages.”

Prost lifted a hand.

“I know of her. Hedag’s a family name, isn’t it?”

Wiskeria looked surprised.

“That’s right. She comes from a line of [Executioners]. Family trade. Her [Witch] side ties into that. Her passion is her craft.”

Ryoka was still missing something. Craft?

“Which is…?”

“Being the law.”

Prost didn’t elaborate. Wiskeria nodded.

“Her magic’s probably the weakest of all the [Witches], but she has Skills to make up for that. Eloise, on the other hand, is very skillful in herbal magics and…tea. She lives in one village and generally just helps people out.”

Another hand from Ryoka.

“You say that, but does she have any, uh, secrets? Like, I’m sure I shouldn’t cross Mavika or Alevica. I do know about her. The Witch Runner. She can fly and use necromancy, right?”

“Among other things. She’s a genius at fighting. Not so much traditional magic, but her being able to fly means she’s one of the best [Witches]. I don’t know of any of the others in the coven who fly with a broom either. Mavika definitely can, but most would prefer to walk.”

“Imagine that Hedag riding a broom.”

Charlay laughed. Durene snorted with amusement. Wiskeria did not. Neither did Ryoka.

“So don’t cross Alevica and Mavika. What about the others? You said Eloise is a ‘good’ witch. But does she have a…secret? Anything that we should know about?”

Durene’s skin crawled. That was right. Now that Ryoka mentioned it, compared to the others, Eloise stood out. Califor could be dangerous, Hedag had an axe and killed people for all she smiled—what was Eloise’s secret?

“Her secret? She doesn’t have one. She’s just nice. We’re not all dangerous, you know.”

Wiskeria gave Ryoka a blank look. The City Runner paused.

“Oh.”

“Anyways, that’s all of them. Except Belavierr.”

“Your mother.”

Rie looked at Wiskeria. The [Witch]’s expression froze. She tugged her hat lower, hiding her eyes.

“Yes. She is. I haven’t seen her in…at least thirteen years.”

“What about her? She’s a…bad witch?”

“Oh yes. The very worst in that respect. She’s not dangerous like Mavika or Alevica. It’s hard to cross her. But she’s dangerous. She’s…don’t talk to her. Don’t interact with her. Don’t make her any promises, and don’t take any offers she makes. She’s harmless if you ignore her. Probably.”

What an endorsement. Wiskeria fiddled with her hat, clearly unwilling to say much more, but Rie pressed her, frowning hugely.

“What does she do? I feel like I know that name…but my parents…I lost them quite young. Perhaps they met her?”

Wiskeria’s gaze darkened.

“I hope not for their sakes. But they probably knew of her. Many people do. As for what my mother does. Her magic, her craft is…stitch magic.”

The room waited. Wiskeria looked up. She shrugged at their blank faces.

“She stitches things. She’s a [Stitch Witch]. Don’t ever talk with her if I’m not there. Okay?”

She looked around, and her gaze was deadly serious. Durene looked about uncertainly as well. She saw Ryoka meet Wiskeria’s eyes, Charlay’s uncertain grin, and Rie looking at Wiskeria. The [Lady] pursed her lips, then glanced at Ryoka and nodded.

“In that case, I think we had better see what these [Witches] are doing. Durene, why don’t you accompany Miss Ryoka?”

The half-Troll girl nodded.

“Of course.”





Day 57 – Ryoka



It was an odd experience, starting her day in Riverfarm. Not bad—just odd. Ryoka had abandoned being a City Runner for a second to be, well, a guest. She’d woken up at dawn with Charlay. They were used to an earlier schedule, so they’d tiptoed—well, Ryoka had tiptoed—around Durene and made breakfast. Some odd meat with eggs, corn, and potatoes had been in the bag.

Then when the half-Troll girl had woken up and eaten as well, they’d headed down to the village. Then they’d met first thing to hear Wiskeria’s report on what her coven wanted, and now they were just walking around Riverfarm. Charlay stretched in the morning air, yawning.

“That was some great sleep I had! And you don’t cook half bad, Ryoka! I think you underdid the meat, though.”

“You’re the one who wanted to throw it in the pan.”

“Hey! I covered you from that evil bird while we made it!”

Durene chuckled. The half-Troll girl walked along the two, listening to their banter. Ryoka felt somewhat easier around Durene after a night, although it was nothing like the strange and friendly bickering she had with Charlay.

“Sorry about that. It’s Frostwing. She can be evil.”

“She’s very beautiful. But also vicious. So this is Riverfarm?”

Ryoka stared around at the streets and the people bustling about. It was amazing. Durene nodded proudly.

“That’s right. We built all this since you last came by, Ryoka! And we’re working on new houses every day!”

“It’s incredible progress. When I was here last, the village was still snowed in. From the avalanche…sorry.”

Durene’s face had clouded over. The half-Troll girl shook her head and smiled brightly.

“It’s fine. It feels like ages ago, really.”

It did. Ryoka nodded, remembering those times. Frost Faeries. Magic and snow and dead things around a fire. And it would be summer, autumn, and then winter before they arrived. The spring wasn’t even over! She frowned up at the sky. Seasons were longer in this world. It meant they hung around too long for her taste.

“At least it’s a nice day. Very bright. Too bright. Hey, is there anywhere to drink? I need water.”

Charlay grumbled as she clip-clopped along. Many people were stopping to stare at a Centaur in their midst. Durene looked almost pleased to not be the center of attention.

“Of course! This is Riverfarm after all. You can see the river that way! And beyond it are the fields—hey, wait!”

Charlay took off excitedly. Durene jogged after her, but she couldn’t have caught Charlay in a thousand years. She turned back to Ryoka,

“She’s really fast!”

“And excitable. Sorry for foisting her on you.”

Durene hesitated at the word ‘foist’. Then she nodded, smiling. She looked around, then edged closer. Ryoka resisted the urge to hop back; she had bare feet, and Durene’s feet could easily smash one of hers.

“Um, Ryoka, I know Rie and Prost wanted me to follow you. But if you have any ideas, you know, from yours and Laken’s world—”

Ryoka winced. Damn, so Durene had remembered. She hissed back up at her.

“Don’t talk about that, please. Anyone could be listening.”

Especially a [Witch]. Ryoka wasn’t sure if they could be trusted—no, she was pretty sure at least one of them spelled trouble for Riverfarm. This entire scenario smelled fishy to her. A Circle of Thorns? This traitor who’d manipulated Laken into attacking the Goblins? Durene had told Ryoka about that last night, and Ryoka was already trying to figure out who it was. It had to be—

“Hey, you two! What’s the hold up?”

Charlay came galloping back, wiping water from her mouth. She glared at Ryoka and Durene and then grabbed at her horse half.

“Ooh! My stomach! I think I’ve got colic! I shouldn’t have drank that water so quickly!”

“Don’t joke about that.”

Ryoka sighed at Charlay. The Centauress laughed. Durene blinked.

“You mean, like horses? Can a Centauress get that?”

“Hey! Anyone can get colic! Don’t be racist! Speciesist!”

Charlay glared at Durene. Abashed, the half-Troll girl turned red. Ryoka glared and kicked Charlay gently on one leg. The Centauress raised one of hers, and Ryoka backed up. She hesitated and saw Durene’s face.

“I didn’t mean you’re super-racist. It’s fine! It’s fine! Besides, we’re both non-Human, right? Humans are the really racist ones. We should be pals!”

She trotted over and slapped Durene on the shoulder. Then she squinted at Durene.

“I didn’t ask, but you’re—are you a Troll? I’ve seen some as mercenaries on Baleros. You know, in monstrous regiments?”

Durene stared at Charlay, open-mouthed. Ryoka coughed.

“Charlay.”

“What? Oh, am I being ‘insensitive’ again, Ryoka? Wait, am I?”

Charlay rolled her eyes and then glanced anxiously back at Durene. The girl shook her head.

“I’m—half-Troll.”

“Oh. Hey! I haven’t seen any of those—I mean, people like you. But that’s cool. Half-Troll. Half-Troll. Does that mean a Troll and—”

“You say you knew Trolls in Baleros, Charlay?”

Ryoka interrupted quickly. The Centauress nodded casually.

“Yup. Monster regiments. They don’t level, and a lot of them are really stup—I mean, they don’t level up, but sometimes tribes ally with mercenary companies or enlist. It’s rare, and Goblins are banned from that kind of thing, but it used to happen. Of course, usually we go to war with them. Hey, do you know Fleethoof? She’s a famous Centauress, and she fought a bunch of Ogres and nasty Cyclopes and, um…”

She stared at Durene. The girl stared back. Charlay looked around, and Ryoka massaged her eyes. The Centauress turned around.

“Hey! Let’s look at those fields, huh?”

She took off. Ryoka glared at her galloping figure as she raced away and turned to Durene.

“Sorry. Charlay’s insensitive.”

“It’s fine. I didn’t know Trolls could live anywhere with people in peace. I thought they just attacked everything on sight.”

Durene looked wistfully after Charlay. Ryoka cleared her throat.

“So. Uh—Riverfarm. I see it’s busy building. Lots of new people. What do you do all day?”

The half-Troll girl started. She kept walking with Ryoka and shrugged.

“Me? I just woke up a little bit ago. I help out, but ever since the army was pretty much disbanded…I don’t know. I wish I did. I wish Laken were here.”

Ryoka nodded absently.

“Aren’t you a [Paladin], though? Laken said he made you into one.”

“Yup.”

Ryoka hesitated and eyed Durene.

“So…don’t you have an urge to do [Paladin] things? Go on crusades? Fight evil?”

“No? Where would I find any? And I’m not a [Knight]!”

Durene laughed at the idea. Ryoka hesitated.

“Yes, but…”

She broke off as they reached the river and fields. Ryoka blinked, then stared. Durene pointed proudly at the developing farmland that stretched far as Ryoka could see across the other bank.

“You see? We’re all combining our Skills on the other side. The [Farmers], I mean. We’re growing as fast as we can since there are so many people to feed; we’ve harvested three times already from some parts! And Prost wants this to be twice as big when we’re done! We’re going to grow potatoes, corn, carrots—all kinds of stuff!”

“That’s incredible.”

Ryoka stared across the farmland. It was a substantial amount of work, and that would be if Riverfarm’s folk had access to tractors and combine harvesters! But they’d done this themselves. She saw dozens, no, over a hundred men and women working the fields and more in the distance, clearing land for use. Durene nodded proudly.

“It’s great. The only trouble is pests.”

“Pests? What’s this about pests?”

Charlay was back. She excitedly waved the two over to a small bridge someone had built over part of the river. Ryoka had to pause to admire it too; it wasn’t much more than a sloping bridge, but the fact that someone had engineered it—complete with a keystone construction, only with wood blocks—told her that there was some serious talent here. The fields and new houses—Ryoka decided that Riverfarm might be poor, but perhaps not for long. Durene strode over to the other side and pointed at some wheat already ready to harvest.

“It’s rats. And birds. And other animals. It happens with most fields, but even scarecrows don’t keep them away with this much food. We have night patrols, but without Laken, it’s hard to handle stuff like rats.”

“Why’s that?”

“Well, because we keep growing stuff. And the rats make these burrows and only come out at night mostly—Laken could find them the instant they arrived, but we have to keep searching!”

Durene pounded a fist into her hand, looking frustrated. It was a [Farmer]’s dilemma. Ryoka nodded absently. Charlay did too.

“That sounds awful. I hate rats. But this wheat looks nice. Let me try some! And there’s a lot of lovely grass around here!”

So saying, she reached down and plucked a stalk of wheat and began to nibble at it. Ryoka and Durene stared at Charlay. Ryoka frowned.

“Do you eat grass, Charlay?”

The Centauress jumped and blushed.

“No! I mean, not unless I’m really hungry. Grass is too hard, let alone hay. There’s some nice grasses that you can get in Baleros, though. Very soft. Why? Hey! Are you being racist again?”

“Not me. But why don’t you stop eating the wheat? That’s Riverfarm’s food.”

“Aw, but it tastes good. And it’s one stalk. You’ve got tons, right, Durene?”

The Centauress grabbed another. Durene hesitated. But someone else ran up, shouting in outrage.

“Hey! That’s our crop! Begone, you—uh—”

Mister Ram paused as he stared at Charlay. She pranced away, looking offended.

“I just wanted a bit. You’ve got tons!”

“That’s our crop! And we’ve having enough trouble keeping birds and rodents away as it is. Not to mention the damned bugs! Durene, we’ve got grasshoppers now. Northeastern fields. Can you believe it?”

Durene groaned. Ryoka made a face. Bugs, rodents, and birds. She didn’t envy Riverfarm’s [Farmers] their job. The half-Troll girl grimaced.

“We have to get rid of them fast! Otherwise they’ll eat half the fields! Let me lend a hand, and I’ll tell Prost we need everyone to get over and help get rid of them. Ryoka, is there some way we can get rid of grasshoppers quick?”

She looked expectantly at Ryoka. The City Runner froze. Ram blinked, then swung around to her.

“What? Me? I have no idea. Unless—a pesticide? Water and soap, maybe? I really don’t know.”

Ryoka backed up a bit. She had a lot of useless knowledge like how to make a bomb (purely for anarchistic reasons of a rebellious child), but she’d never looked into stuff like pesticides. But she could try. Maybe this was what Laken meant. Durene brightened at the word.

“Pesti-what? You mean, like an [Alchemist] draught? I heard some sell stuff to [Farmers].”

“That’s right! Are you an [Alchemist], Miss? No. Wait. You’re that City Runner people were talking about, right? Well, maybe we can send for some potions! But the cost—”

Ram looked excited and then worried. Ryoka bit her lip, thinking hard. She could experiment, but she didn’t actually know if soap and water would kill most insects. It probably didn’t have much staying power. And rats? Birds? She was hesitating, wishing she hadn’t blurted that out without time to think, when there was a sound.

Flapping. The skies darkened, and Ryoka heard a cawing of dozens, no, hundreds of birds. Ram looked up and swore.

“Fecking wormrot. What is that?”

That was a murder of crows. And Mavika. She walked across the river towards the fields as the [Farmers] put down their tools and turned. Above her head swirled a mass of crows, driving off the other birds in the area, their voices shrill. Silently, the [Witch] approached Ram, Durene, and Ryoka. Charlay had decided she wanted to inspect the corn.

“Farmer, farmers, gather around and give me your ears. For I have a bargain for all to hear.”

It sounded like a spell, but from Mavika’s mouth and by the smile on her lips, it was mockery. Ram glared as more [Farmers] approached, looking wary and holding hoes or scythes not quite as weapons. Ryoka, for her part, had seen Birds by Alfred Hitchcock and had decided that if things went south, she was going to jump in the water and hold her breath.

“What do you want? Mister Prost told you not to interfere with us, didn’t he? If those things land in our fields and try to eat our produce, he’ll sort you out!”

Ram shook a fist at Mavika. The [Witch] regarded him with black eyes, then turned. Prost was striding towards them at speed.

“What’s this about? Witch Mavika?”

“I’ve come to offer my craft. And strike a deal. That was the terms you gave, [Steward] of this land. I’ve yet to make my offer. Refuse it or let it stand. But my offer must be made before it can be rejected. Or is it offense you want to give?”

The [Witch] peered around, her eyes flicking from face to face. Ryoka saw her smile with yellowed teeth as the crows jeered. But—she didn’t shudder with revulsion as many of the other people did. She looked at Durene. And then at Mavika. What Ryoka felt was…a memory.

She looked at Mavika and saw pride. Pride and contempt. She was daring Prost and the [Farmers]. Expecting them to react with insults. She reminded Ryoka of the fae. And Ryoka, looking at Prost, saw the man was about to snap back. That would be a mistake, because Mavika was the kind of person who didn’t deescalate in front of threats.

So Ryoka stepped in front of Prost. She caught his eye, and he paused. Silently, Ryoka met his gaze. Then she turned to Mavika and bowed. The [Witch] hadn’t expected that. Nor did she expect the smile Ryoka gave her. The City Runner answered her, pitching her voice to be heard by the [Farmers] and crows alike.

“Witch Mavika, I’ll speak for the [Farmers] and those gathered here. You’ve come to offer a deal fairly, and for that, we’ll hear you out. We can’t promise a deal will be struck. But a bargain made in faith should be answered with faith. What does the Marshland’s [Witch] offer Riverfarm?”

It wasn’t as poetic as Ryoka would have liked. But it was simple and to the point. And as she said it, Ryoka bowed slightly again. She looked up and saw Mavika regarding her. The [Witch] seemed to be looking for sarcasm or mockery in Ryoka’s voice or posture. But there was none. Somewhat mollified, she beckoned.

The murder of crows came down and landed. In the wheat, on the ground—hundreds of birds. The [Farmers] backed up uneasily, but the birds just stood there, flapping a wing, opening their beaks, but silent. And they all looked at Ryoka and Prost. The City Runner wavered. Okay. That was more creepy than she would have liked. But Mavika grinned then.

“Respect for a [Witch] is rare indeed. So I will make my offer plain and fair, City Runner. Give my flock a field of food. A hundred paces by a hundred paces from there to there. Of your best corn, freshly grown. And for one week, my crows will call Riverfarm their home.”

She pointed to a patch of corn with the ripest and biggest corn, almost as nice as Farmer Lupp’s crop. Ryoka looked around as the [Farmers] began to protest. Ram looked outraged.

“Give our corn? But that’s our best crop! And for what—”

“Ram. Shut up.”

Prost elbowed the man. Ryoka looked at Mavika. She was grinning again.

“By ‘call it their home’, what do you mean, Witch Mavika? It sounds like the [Farmers] would be giving away their food for nothing.”

The [Witch]’s eyes glinted.

“Not for nothing, wind’s child. For not a single blade or seed will my flock eat. And instead this bargain shall they meet: every rodent buried in your fields they’ll kill, and no bird shall feast from your fields at will. My flock will devour the insects who plague your fields. For but a portion of your yields.”

She really liked to rhyme. But everyone who heard her understood what she meant. Ram looked up.

“Both birds and rodents? The damn grasshoppers too?”

“If she could do that—but for our fresh corn? How do we know the crows won’t eat more?”

A female [Farmer] protested. Ryoka saw Mavika’s glare and turned hurriedly.

“Mister Prost, I don’t think Mavika would allow her crows to eat more than what was offered. They’ll probably have enough with all the pests. That’s the deal she offered; I don’t know how fair it is.”

“A hundred paces by a hundred paces. And that’s good corn. Enough to feed a lot of mouths. Or one flock. We need to think about it. Give us a second?”

Prost grimaced as he considered it. He stepped back as Ryoka nodded, and Ram and a few senior [Farmers] huddled around him. Ryoka watched as they discussed, clearly doing a [Farmer]’s calculations and glancing at Mavika. Wondering if they could trust her, no doubt.

Ryoka didn’t worry about that. Rather, she kept her eyes on Mavika because she didn’t really want to turn her back on all those staring crows. Or the [Witch] herself. Mavika seemed content to wait with all eyes on her. She had the kind of poise Ryoka dreamed of. After a second or two of desperate smiling, Ryoka cleared her throat. Several crows near her flapped their wings.

“Um. I’m—Ryoka. Ryoka Griffin, Witch Mavika. I’m honored to meet—”

“I know who you are, wind’s child. Belavierr pointed you out to me.”

“She did? I mean—did she say—I’m delighted to—”

Mavika cut Ryoka off.

“It matters not. I am not here to be friends with you, wind’s child. Nor these [Farmers]. Look for Eloise if you seek that. Only seek me if you have something to offer and something to take. Now step aside. Now I will see if the path that brought me here was one that was worth the effort to take.”

She gestured, and Ryoka saw Prost approaching her with Ram and two [Farmers] at his back. The [Steward] looked determined.

“Witch Mavika. If you agree your flock will take not one plant more than that section there—we’ll agree to your terms. One week of keeping our fields clear. Is it agreed?”

“You swear to leave my flock safe in the skies? No [Hunter] will shoot arrows at them or traps bring them down? If one crow dies, I claim the forfeit of our deal and three times as many fields our prize.”

Mavika pointed at her flock. There was another mutter, but Prost silenced it with a look.

“Spread the word. You know it’s a good deal. We have an infestation in our fields. How much wheat and crops do you think we’d lose? I say it’s a deal, Witch Mavika. Do we shake on it or sign—?”

He jumped backwards as the murder of crows took off into the sky. Mavika threw back her head and laughed.

“A word is good enough until broken! Let my flock work, Steward Prost! And you, wind’s child, play no games with the wind! Now, crows of Mavika’s flock, fly!”

And they did. The crows took wing, cawing, and dove into the fields. Ryoka saw the [Farmers] exclaim in horror as they aimed straight at one wheat field, but the crows weren’t aiming at the wheat. True to Mavika’s claim, they avoided the plants and began tearing at the ground, at tiny shapes. Ryoka saw a flurry of movement and saw hundreds of grasshoppers shoot up, fleeing the crows. But the birds were already after them, landing, tearing up the soil to eat the bugs as they hid.

“Dead gods!”

Durene exclaimed as she and the other [Farmers] watched the crows flying about. They were efficient! And coordinated; the bugs fled at random, but the crows boxed them in. That was only a portion of the flock. Some took to the air, circling, jeering at other birds. Some landed on the corn they’d been given, pecking already and fighting with their brethren. But the last group circled around Mavika. She had walked into one field of potatoes and was studying it.

“You say there are rodents in the ground? Rats and moles and mice or larger things?”

Her voice was almost conversational, now. Businesslike, as she talked to Prost. He nodded, and Ram hurried over.

“In this field and a few more. At least, we think it’s them. We’ve raked the spots and brought in dogs, but they keep coming—”

He paused as a bird landed and cawed at Mavika. The [Witch] seemed to listen to it and nodded.

“Yes. Rats.”

“Can you find them? We could turn up the fields if your crows work like terriers. Even our dogs are stymied by so many fresh burrows…”

Prost’s question was answered by a shake of Mavika’s head. She smiled again and pointed up.

“My flock have the [Eyes of Many]. They will find whatever hides. But keep back and let them work. It will not be long; they have hunted far larger than rats in times far past. Hunts of vermin storied in song.”

Sure enough, no sooner had she spoken then the group of crows circling overhead was broken up by another bird. Ryoka squinted up and saw a different black shape among the crows. A solitary raven, far larger than the rest. The crows made way warily as the raven landed on a patch of dirt. And then shrieked. Ryoka whispered.

“Nevermore.”

“What was that?”

Mavika looked around. Ryoka coughed.

“Nothing. Sorry.”

The raven was digging at the dirt with its claws. It was large, even for a raven. And its efforts were rewarded in less than a minute. There was a flurry, and then something burst from the ground. A huge rat, nearly four feet long, erupted from the ground. The [Farmers] roared, and the raven took off as the rat lunged at it.

“Dead gods, it’s Colony Rats! That’s a mother if I saw one! We’ve got to kill it—”

Ram rushed forwards with a hoe, but Mavika’s glare stopped him. The [Witch] pointed as the rat chased after the raven. It was biting, snapping, and the raven was seemingly outmatched on the ground. The [Witch] pointed her fingers at the raven.

“Sephraic. [Ancient Form].”

She snapped her fingers. The raven disappeared behind a stand of corn as the rat mother pursued it. Ryoka heard a shriek, then a rat’s scream. It came back out, fur bloody and torn. And a bird from hell pursued it.

There was no biological history for a raven like this in Ryoka and Laken’s world. But perhaps, in the lost world of this one, there had been. A time when ravens needed to be dangerous. Deadly. How else could you explain the raven that came out, striding across the ground with huge clawed feet, its beak pecking at the rat, descending on it with a flurry of wings, slashing claws?

There was no fight. Just the rat mother’s flight and a quick, painful death. The raven looked up, its beak bloody. The Humans stared at the bird and backed away. Ryoka gulped. If that thing came at her—hell, a pack of those aggressive geese that liked to pick fights with picnickers would take one look at this thing and fly away.

The raven cawed, and the crows descended. They began digging at the same spot where it had driven the rat mother from as the raven began to devour the rat. None of them got anywhere close to the enchanted bird. But they were unearthing the rat warrens. And Mavika’s second finger made all the [Farmers] step back.

“As promised, Steward. [Primal Fear].”

Out came the rats. They fled into the waiting talons, too maddened with fright to hide. Not just in that field either; more crows descended, claws snatching, cawing. They swooped down, pecked at the writhing shapes, bore them up—

And then Ryoka saw bits of animals falling from the sky. The [Farmers] looked up and groaned as the birds dropped blood and flesh. Ram whirled.

“Prost—”

The [Steward] was already addressing the [Witch].

“Witch Mavika. Can’t you persuade your flock to eat the—rats elsewhere?”

Mavika’s grin was unpleasant to see.

“That was part of no deal of ours, Steward Prost. The bones and flesh will nourish the ground. Is this not what you asked for?”

She gestured at the fields. Ryoka stared at the black army of crows and saw one pursuing a robin. The bird was flying away—right until the chase carried it into a second crow’s talons. The birds ripped the robin to shreds, and the head fell into a field of corn. Along with dead grasshoppers, rats, a rabbit—it was turning into a scene of carnage. But the fields were intact.

“Gross.”

Charlay gagged. And the [Farmers] looked no happier. They began muttering amongst themselves.

“Lookit the parts. We’ll be picking rat bones out of our crops!”

“Bah. Better than weevils and grasshoppers out of our teeth! Think the crows’ll get the little things?”

“Doesn’t matter. Bad deal to make with a [Witch] if it is. I don’t care what Prost says about giving them a chance.”

“Do you want to fight those grasshoppers? Or the rats? Half our dogs won’t go after one four feet long! And it saves us the trouble of finding them. And they’ll watch the fields.”

“So what? I had a dog from Radivaek lands. You know, the Dog Lord’s domain? Best ratters in the world. She kept my land clean of pests. If I’d had her longer, I would’ve bred a litter. What can crows do better than a good pack?”

“Eat bugs.”

“Ryoka?”

The City Runner broke off from listening to the [Farmers]. She saw Durene approaching with Prost. The [Steward] was shaking his head as Mavika continued directing her flock. Ryoka glanced at the man, a bit anxious.

“Did I step in too much, Mister Prost?”

“No, no. I’m grateful for the help, Miss Griffin.”

“And the birds? Was that a good deal?”

The man hesitated.

“It’s alright. It’s a blow to give up the corn, but it’s better than what we’d’ve gotten if we had to fight the pests. And I think that [Witch] knows it.”

He gestured to Mavika. Ryoka nodded slowly.

“Except for them raining parts over your fields. And—crapping too.”

Prost groaned. Ryoka grinned weakly.

“That’s a proper [Witch]’s deal for you, I guess. But it’ll keep your plants safe?”

“That it will. Let’s just hope the crows let our [Farmers] work. I’ll keep them from complaining too loudly, don’t you worry.”

Prost waved a hand. Ryoka nodded and looked for Durene. She was still watching the crowd with Charlay. The half-Troll girl pointed at the large raven. It still hadn’t changed back.

“So this is what a [Witch] can do.”

“Guess so.”

Ryoka trotted over. She eyed the bird as it kept devouring the rat’s corpse. It was not a sight for the squeamish. And Ryoka’s own stomach was hurting a bit. From nausea or Charlay’s colic? She looked away.

“Are they all like that, do you think?”

Charlay glanced at Ryoka. The Runner Girl shrugged. Slowly, the three began to walk back towards Riverfarm. And behind them, the crows cawed, claiming the fields as their own.





Day 57 – Rie



To the [Lady]’s relief, the issue of the [Witches]’ presence in Riverfarm seemed to have settled itself by the time she began her day. More or less. Or at least, with Mavika occupied in the fields, the worst objections were dealt with. The matter of Rehanna had been settled, to everyone’s surprise, by Alevica.

Prost had levied a fine on Mavika of two gold coins. Privately, Rie thought that might be too much for what had been a rather grave insult, but it was too little for some of the people who had seen the burning spell cast on the doorknob. And it was paid promptly by Alevica.

“Mavika owes me for this.”

The Witch Runner grumbled as she passed over two gold coins in front of a small audience. Rie took them gracefully and passed them to Nesor, who had control of her personal bag of holding. Rie thanked Alevica, got a sardonic grin, and the crowd was assured Rehanna would see some of the money as compensation for her pain, and that was that.

Privately, Rie was determined not to give Rehanna more than a few copper’s worth of the money, but the woman had heard about the fine and sought Rie out in moments. She spluttered when Rie handed her eight silver coins.

“I was told it was two gold coins!”

“And you destroyed a magical brew that was probably worth at least ten.”

Rie coolly informed Rehanna as the woman turned red with outrage. She didn’t know what Wiskeria’s soup was actually worth, but she was tired of Rehanna. The woman was spiteful, bitter towards Wiskeria and [Witches] in general, and a pawn of Beatica and Rodivek’s manipulations. Rehanna glared at Rie.

“This is unfair! I was injured! My hand was nearly burnt off!”

“And my [Mage], Nesor, healed you on the spot. Miss Rehanna, the cost of the healing potion alone was nearly worth the fine we posed. I would not continue arguing your point.”

Rie’s imperiously tilted chin made Rehanna remember who she was addressing. Geram looming over her shoulder also helped. The woman backed up.

“This is unfair! Those [Witches] killed a man! And they’re being allowed to go free?”

“Justice was served. You may dispute it, but I would ask anyone who was present. Or do you not know what Elmmet did, Miss Rehanna? I won’t sully my tongue with that filth.”

Rie’s voice was as cold as ice. She had heard from Prost what Elmmet had done, and as far as she was concerned, he had died too quickly. Abusing a child like that—Rie felt her stomach churning. Rehanna just stared at Rie, and then her expression twisted.

“But they’re [Witches]. They—”

She looked around, realized no one was coming to her support, and turned and stormed off. Rie tsked, the only expression of anger she could let herself show.

“Dreadful woman.”

She said as much to Eloise later that day. The [Witch] was hosting a tea party again, and this time, Rie let herself be sucked into the circle of women—and men!—relaxing with her. The [Witch], or perhaps [Tea Witch], had a Skill. But since it was clearly being used to calm and relax and build relationships between the disparate folk sitting around her, Rie was only too keen to encourage it. She smiled at Eloise. The woman was serving a sweeter tea today, one perfect for the children bouncing on laps. She had snacks, tea—where had she gotten it all from?

“A [Witch] does have her ways, Miss Rie.”

Eloise reached out and tapped Rie’s hand with a smile when Rie asked. It wasn’t even offensive or patronizing, that was the thing. She was so…non-[Witch]-like that you couldn’t help but relax around her.

Part of Rie wondered if Ryoka Griffin was right and Eloise had a dark secret. She couldn’t imagine it looking at the woman adjusting her flowery hat. Rie was no stranger to people with secrets, and Eloise struck her as genuine. If she had any hidden depths, they weren’t the ones that would come out and bite someone.

“Miss Eloise, you are a delight. Truly. I must say, this is such a pleasant experience. And after I thought—well, with those other [Witches]—but you’re so unlike them!”

A former [Shopkeeper] confessed as she ate hungrily from the plate of scones that Eloise was offering around. Rie knew what she meant, even if it was delivered with all the tact of a hammer to the hand. Eloise was sociable, kind, and generous. Totally unlike the others. She’d even invited Rehanna to the tea party. Rie was relieved the woman had declined and only snatched a few of the delicious scones.

“You’re too harsh on my fellow [Witches], Miss Velmir. And you, Miss Rie. Too harsh on Miss Rehanna, I think. We all benefit from considering others with kindness. My current coven is indeed full of [Witches] unlike me. But what they offer, they offer freely. You may always refuse them. Take Hedag for example. She is at work, and she is quite kind. Hers is a helping hand for those who need it. In her way, she is far better a [Witch] than I.”

Eloise gestured across the street towards Hedag. Rie turned in her seat, frowning. The [Executioner] had garnered a huge berth this morning, and Rie had expected no one—save for perhaps angry folk from Lancrel—to go near her. She’d been expecting trouble, but to her surprise, Hedag had a number of children about her. And women.

Perhaps it was her booming laugh or the way she was willing to toss children up or listen to them talk. She sat listening to a girl solemnly show her a flower. She—Rie’s eyes focused on the girl’s face and narrowed.

“That’s Elmmet’s child.”

The tea circle went silent. Eloise nodded.

“Yes.”

“But she killed—”

Miss Velmir lowered her voice hurriedly. Eloise nodded again and sipped from her cup, as calm as could be.

“After what was done to the girl, who else in this world do you think she would trust? Not her mother. But perhaps Hedag. But you’ll see the rest of her craft tonight. Look.”

She pointed, and Rie saw Hedag laughing and waving her hand over the flower. Once, twice, three times, as if casting a spell. The little daffodil perked up a bit, and the girl, delighted as the flower turned a bit brighter, clutched it and ran off to show the other children. Another boy replaced her, holding up a leather ball and demanding Hedag do the same. The [Witch] paused and said something, and he nodded solemnly.

“Cantrips?”

That was all Rie could imagine at the moment. She looked at Eloise. The woman had a knowing look that Rie didn’t like. There was something about Hedag that Prost hadn’t told Rie. He’d assured her that she was lawful, but that word clearly had a meaning to the villagers that they had refused to explain outright to Rie or anyone from the cities. Thoughtfully, Rie took another sip from her cup.

“I see. Well, I do agree that Miss Hedag is kind at the moment. But what of the rest of your…coven, Witch Eloise? I believe I saw the one called Alevica napping on a roof.”

“That sounds like her. I don’t believe she wishes to practice her craft. There’s not much for her to do at the moment. As for Califor and Nanette, they’re practicing magic, no doubt. Their craft does not affect the village much either. But you see? We may keep to ourselves and have our own ways, but they are not so different from me, are they?”

Eloise chuckled ruefully. There was a murmur of protest, and a young man from Lancrel raised his voice. He was off-duty as a [Woodcutter], but he had been a [Clerk] at the Merchant’s Guild. He was sitting with a giggling girl at the edge of the conversation.

“But you’re so much better than they are, Miss! But for the hat and you’d be like my grandmother, but nicer!”

“Ah, but I am a [Witch], young man. And the hat must remain, or else you’d think just that of me.”

Eloise’s kind response provoked relaxed laughter. But the young girl, giggling and taking her cue from the young [Clerk], spoke up. Rie eyed her. She was probably seventeen, but she acted like she was four years younger.

“But Miss Eloise, we’d all love you more without the hat! What’s wrong with taking it off? Otherwise you remind us of those horrid other [Witches], like the horrible lady with birds!”

Rie inhaled slightly. This was crossing from banter into rudeness. But Eloise’s smile didn’t waver. It only deepened. She paused as the other tea-drinkers looked at her uncertainly.

“Young lady. What if I said I’d love you more and be more at ease if you took off your shirt? Or that young man his pants? What would you say then?”

The said young lady blushed and stammered a reply, but the young man, drunk on bravado, stood up.

“I’ll do that!”

So saying, he yanked his pants down. There was a peal of laughter from the young women, and Rie sighed and averted her eyes from some underwear that was thankfully in place. Pale legs—the rest of the tea circle groaned or laughed, and a man snapped.

“Put your pants back on, Delgriff! You’re among ladies!”

The young man, flushing, began to do that. But Eloise’s voice interrupted him.

“What are you doing, Mister Delgriff?”

He stopped, flushing as more laughter passed around the table.

“Uh—putting my pants back on?”

“But you asked me to take my hat off. And you offered to take your pants off. Shouldn’t you keep them off as long as we’re sitting?”

More raucous laughter. Even Rie couldn’t help but smile. The young man flushed, and Miss Velmir leaned over knowingly.

“I see. So his pants are like your hat?”

Eloise blinked.

“Not at all. Pants and hats are quite different, Miss Velmir. I don’t imagine I’d provoke such notice if I took my hat off. But there is something similar.”

“Which is?”

The tea circle looked at her as Delgriff, flushing, got his pants back up. Eloise nodded to him, smiling.

“Mister Delgriff has reclaimed his pants, and perhaps they shall never come off in our presence again. One may only hope. But we shall ever remember you without, Mister Delgriff, no matter how long and how many times you come to us with pants on. So. My hat stays on. Because I am a [Witch]. And I do not change. You may love me or hate me, but you must remember: a [Witch] I remain.”

Her words this time left only a thoughtful silence. After a bit, when Lady Rie had regretfully excused herself, she looked at Geram. The [Fistfighter] was brushing crumbs off his front. Rie looked back at Eloise, who was letting a new circle of people come to sit with her. Those leaving seemed invigorated, and many were holding tea packets they’d purchased from her. Lady Rie smiled.

“I believe I love that old lady, Geram.”

“She reminds me of the grandmother I never had, Lady Valerund.”

The man wistfully agreed. Rie sighed and shook her head.

“What was she saying about Rehanna, though? That dreadful woman?”

“She lost her husband during the battle for Lancrel.”

Geram reminded his mistress. Lady Rie paused, and a moment of guilt flashed across her face.

“Oh yes. I had forgotten. Even so…well, she is allowed her grief, but not spitefulness.”

Geram nodded, but he glanced back at the tea circle.

“There might be more. The [Witch]—Miss Eloise—was asking about Rehanna before you sat with them. Some of the people there looked fairly serious when they replied. Should I ask what was said?”

Lady Rie hesitated.

“No. I don’t think it matters. For now. Tell me. I’ve accounted for Eloise, Califor, Nanette…the Witch Runner, I forget her name already—Alevica, yes—Mavika, Hedag. But where is the one called…Belavierr?”

Geram paused. He looked around with a frown.

“I…haven’t seen her.”

“You normally keep an eye on everyone you consider dangerous.”

“I do. And I don’t remember seeing her this morning.”

“Is she still abed?”

Lady Rie glanced around. She saw Rehanna standing apart from the tea circle, looking on with a mixture of jealousy and anger. And Eloise, clearly beckoning her. Rie smoothed her skirts and then walked back to Eloise.

“Miss Eloise. May I ask if you know where your…fellow [Witch], Belavierr, is? Is she still resting at this hour?”

The table went quiet. The name of the seventh [Witch] could do that, even at Eloise’s merry gathering. And the [Witch] sitting there tugged on her hat, and her smile flickered.

“No. But I don’t believe you’d find her easily, Lady Rie. With that said, I wish you hadn’t spoken her name.”

“I beg your pardon. Is there a quarrel between the two of you? She is a member of your coven, isn’t she?”

Fascinated, Rie prodded carefully. Eloise’s look told her plainly that the [Witch] knew what she was doing. With a sigh, Eloise shook her head and stood up.

“No. But there is a philosophical difference between she and I. To put it plainly, if Belavierr stands on one side, I stand on the other. We respect each other, but we do not get along.”

“Because she’s a bad witch?”

Someone suggested that from the back of the circle. Eloise turned, and the laughter faded uneasily. The [Witch] looked around and nodded.

“Yes. And no. She offers trinkets, charms, and she can be very good. Helpful, even. If she sells her trinkets, I would advise you to buy them no matter the cost. But if she seeks you out, I would not take any deal she offers you. And I fear, Miss Rie, that she is seeking to practice her craft today.”

She walked past the circle of people sitting around her table. Rie followed her.

“And how do you know that, Miss Eloise?”

“Because I know what she looks for. Which is why I am here, Lady Rie Valerund. Just like how Hedag sits with the children and worried wives. We know who seeks us. And I am seeking the same person Belavierr looks for. Will you convince her to sit with me?”

The [Witch] pointed ahead. Lady Rie saw the woman she was indicating.

“Rehanna? Why her?”

The woman was sitting by herself now, on the ground. Her hand was healed, but she was holding it as if it were still burned. And her face was bitter, angry—and miserable. She sat alone, and neither Riverfarm’s folk nor Lancrel’s people were with her. She was a villager, but she had scorned Wiskeria’s gift, and she wasn’t one of the city dwellers who joined together to sneer at what made Riverfarm’s people so enduring. Eloise looked at Rehanna.

“I asked, and she was one woman of many Belavierr would look for. But, I think, she would be the first Belavierr sought. Her grief is fresh. And she is lacking friends. I realize she is not pleasant, Lady Rie. But she has a reason to her grief.”

Rie frowned. There was a puzzle here, and her mind realized she was missing something.

“You don’t mean her husband. She was recently bereaved—”

“Half. That is half the reason. Do you know why she came to Riverfarm with her husband, Miss Rie?”

“She…was fleeing the Goblins. I think she was part of Mister Helm’s village. Windrest.”

“Yes. She had a husband there. A home. And a child.”

“Oh. I didn’t know.”

Rie stared at Rehanna. So she’d had a child before she fled. Which meant the Goblins had killed her. Him. Was it a baby? A miscarriage? Or a young child?

It changed nothing, surely. Rehanna was still the woman who’d kicked over Wiskeria’s pot and who had tried to overturn Laken’s authority. But knowing that one fact changed a lot. It made her look like a different woman, sitting there. Rie looked at Eloise, ashamed. And the [Witch] nodded. She adjusted her hat.

“Kindness asks questions, Lady Rie Valerund. And it is kindness I seek to spread. That is my craft, my reason for existing, and my root of magic. It is not Belavierr’s. So hope that I succeed. I have not faced a challenge like this since I was young. Or perhaps since it is her…ever.”

Eloise strode forwards towards Rehanna. Rie watched, uncomprehending, but now she felt it. On the very edges of her senses. Not the senses she had as a [Lady], but something more primal. A tickling on the back of her neck. A little tapping at her mind telling her to look.

She turned around slowly. For a second, she didn’t see Belavierr. But the [Witch]’s presence had silenced the merry tea party on the street. Every head turned until they were all looking in the same direction.

Then you saw her. Standing in the shadow of two houses, tall and still as a statue. Her wide hat was raised, her glowing eyes staring. Across the street, Eloise looked up as Rehanna spat at her. She bent down and offered the woman a hand. Rehanna slapped it away. And Belavierr began to walk.

“This way, children.”

Hedag’s voice was the sole sound on the street. The children who had been playing moved at her voice and ran sideways as she walked out of Belavierr’s path. They hid behind Hedag, whose smile reflected the sun. But Belavierr’s presence was a shadow. She kept moving, and Rie realized her path was as straight as an arrow towards Rehanna. And her eyes were fixed on the woman.

“Miss Rehanna, sit with me.”

Eloise’s voice was patient, but strained ever-so-slightly with urgency. Rehanna spat at her.

“I don’t want your tea or biscuits. [Witch]! [Witch]! And I’m not afraid of her either!”

She pointed a trembling finger at Belavierr. She really wasn’t afraid, Rie realized. Astounding as that was, she looked at Belavierr with only anger. The [Witch] was approaching. Eloise was trying to persuade Rehanna—the woman shoved Eloise back. She rounded to face Belavierr, clenching her fists. What would happen if she struck the [Witch]? Belavierr was giving her no reason to, but she was striding forwards, and Rehanna had planted herself in the way. She was daring a collision.

But what was Rie missing? The answer, part of it, presented itself as someone broke the silent street’s quiet. Wiskeria skidded around the corner, panting, her robes and hat askew. She ran forwards and shouted.

“Mother! Stop!”

Belavierr’s head turned, but her pace didn’t slow. Neither did it increase, though, and Wiskeria ran forwards. The three met in the street, Rehanna, Wiskeria, and Belavierr. Wiskeria threw an arm between Belavierr and Rehanna, and the woman spat.

“What do you want?”

“Rehanna, don’t listen to her. Belavierr is my mother and a [Witch]—but she doesn’t make deals you want to accept. Listen to me—”

She reached for Rehanna, and something snapped in the woman. Rie saw it. She turned on Wiskeria and screamed.

“I don’t want to hear it! You let my husband die at Lancrel! Do you remember his name? Do you even know who he was?”

She raised a hand and struck Wiskeria, punching her face and knocking her spectacles aside. Wiskeria grabbed for them and stumbled back. Rie hissed.

“Geram, go arrest Rehanna. Place her in a pillory—no, just confine her to her house. Maybe that will solve—”

Before the man could move, Rehanna lashed out again. Wiskeria was grabbing for the spectacles, which had fallen but not shattered on the ground. Rehanna kicked at the [Witch], and Wiskeria yelped. Rehanna raised a hand to slap—

And Belavierr caught it. It was so fast Rie blinked. Geram halted uncertainly. Rehanna spun.

“How dare you—”

She punched Belavierr in the face. Rie saw the impact, saw Belavierr’s head snap back a bit. The entire street went quiet. Rehanna hit Belavierr in the face. In the chest, struck her leg, kicking—Belavierr didn’t blink.

Then it was quiet. Rehanna paused, panting, and stared as Belavierr slowly let go. Wiskeria got up and opened her mouth. Belavierr twitched a finger, and Wiskeria’s mouth closed. She regarded her daughter for one moment and then turned to Rehanna. She paused. Looked up.

“It appears to be a fair morning.”

Everyone stared up at the sky. It was indeed a clear day. No clouds in sight. The sun was actually fairly bright, a pleasantness after all the rain. Belavierr nodded.

“Quite pleasant. Although, I expected rain. Still, one is not always right, it seems.”

The words were so out of place that all Rehanna, Rie, and everyone else could do was stare. Rie heard a strangled laugh from behind her. It was hilarious to hear Belavierr say something that didn’t match the scene. At first. Then…terrifying when you looked at her and understood. Belavierr went on after a pause.

“Good morning to you, Mistress. My name is Belavierr.”

There it was again. The words came out cautiously, slowly. Rie listened, saw Belavierr choosing each one. It wasn’t that she was out of sync with the world. It was something that bothered Rie far, far more. It sounded with each word like Belavierr was feeling for what should be said.

Like, someone…pretending to be Human but who had forgotten how it went. She didn’t look around. She didn’t blink. The blows Rehanna had given her could have been an illusion.

“What do you want? I’m not scared of you.”

Rehanna was breathing hard, her eyes flashing with rage and even tears of fury. Or grief? Rie watched Belavierr inspect her face. Whatever was in there—the [Witch] nodded.

“I have business with you, Miss Rehanna Salesmith. You have something I want. And I have something to offer you.”

“I want nothing you [Witches] could ever offer me!”

Rehanna screamed back in Belavierr’s face. She whirled, but Belavierr’s fingers twisted. A bit of thread tangled, and Rehanna stopped. She turned back, her face red.

“What did you—”

“Listen. This is what I have to offer.”

Belavierr’s head bent. Rehanna glared, her face red and white with sudden fear. Wiskeria groaned. She was held too. Rie looked around. And Eloise moved. The small [Witch] strode forwards.

“Miss Rehanna, a word. I think tea would be—”

Belavierr caught her hand as she reached for Rehanna. The two [Witches] locked gazes for a moment. Then—it was too late. Belavierr spoke in Rehanna’s ear.

The woman’s face went white. Rie had seen men hit with spells and arrows die before her eyes in battle. The Sacrifice of Roses. It looked very much like the same had happened to Rehanna. She stumbled, fell backwards onto the street, and stared up at Belavierr. The [Witch] straightened, and Eloise let out a long, pained sigh as she stepped back. Something had been done.

“That is what I offer. Would you like to see it?”

Rehanna stared at her, her face still bloodless. Then she got up. She shook so hard that Rie thought she was having some kind of seizure. She stared at Belavierr, then turned and ran. Ran so fast that she was gone before anyone could blink. Rie peered at the empty street and then at Belavierr.

The [Witch] had paused. She held still where she stood, but her head was turning. Tracking someone through the houses, turning slowly, ever so slowly—and stopping. She looked straight into a wall as she stood in the street. There she stood. Silent. Immobile as Wiskeria got up and tried to talk to her, as Eloise walked back and disbanded the tea circle. It certainly could not stay.

And there the [Witch] stood. For minutes, and then nearly an hour, as Lady Rie shakily got back to work. As Ryoka found a reason for being in Riverfarm. As Durene heard a warning about [Witches], delivered too late. Belavierr stood and waited, perfectly still, until something changed. She tilted her head and nodded.

“I see.”

Somewhere, there had been an answer. A reply, wrenched from a pain-filled soul. An answer to a bargain only Belavierr and Rehanna had been privy to. Lady Rie Valerund did not know what the deal entailed. She did not know the cost or the result yet. She did not know what the reply had been.

But she feared, greatly, deeply, and with all her heart, that the answer had been ‘yes’.





6.41 E


Day 57 – Ryoka



After seeing Mavika at work, Ryoka found herself coming back to Riverfarm. And she knew three things.

Firstly, [Witches] were as cool and scary as they came, especially Mavika. Also, her stomach was still hurting. In fact, it was getting worse since this morning. And finally…she didn’t like Durene.

It wasn’t that she didn’t understand the half-Troll girl walking back with her, and it wasn’t as if Ryoka didn’t feel for her. But there was something about Durene’s personality that irked Ryoka. If she had to sum it up, it was hesitancy.

Charlay had decided to go for a quick trot in case that settled her stomach. Ryoka wished she could join her, but it would have been rude to run off and leave Durene. Old Ryoka would have done it in a heartbeat, and honestly, new Ryoka was tempted too. Instead, she walked and talked with Durene.

“That was terrifying. All those crows and that huge raven—! Hiring Mavika to help with the fields is good, right? You thought so, otherwise you wouldn’t have negotiated for Prost, right?”

“I don’t know. I think it’ll be fine, but Prost will have to watch Mavika. I did what I thought was best; offending her would be a bad idea.”

That was Ryoka’s honest opinion. Durene didn’t seem reassured by it. She glanced sideways at Ryoka, bit one cracked lip, and glanced around conspiratorially.

“So have you had any more ideas?”

Ryoka sighed.

“Nope. I just got here, Durene.”

She didn’t like the expectant look in Durene’s eye or the disappointment that followed after Ryoka’s reply. The half-Troll girl scuffed at the ground.

“Well—maybe helping with stuff like Mavika was what Laken wanted. You could show Prost those ‘pestithings’ you were talking about. He was worried about the layout of Riverfarm with Laken missing. Maybe you could look it over? Because you’re both from…”

“Yeah. Maybe. Only, I’m not an [Architect]. I don’t know how Laken did it. I’ll try.”

It was the same tone Ryoka used when someone asked her to do something she really didn’t want. ‘I’ll try’ was code for ‘only if you make me, and I will give this the most minimum effort possible’. But Durene was nodding happily.

“Prost will appreciate the help. Or Lady Rie! Or me. I was thinking you could explain more about [Paladins]. Laken said he wanted me to level up in my class. I wanted to, but since he’s been gone…”

She waved an arm vaguely as if to say ‘that was that’. Ryoka frowned.

“[Paladins] are a fighting class. Not just fighting. They do good deeds. And they might be able to use…uh, magic. Faith being what it is…”

“What?”

Ryoka shook her head as she walked back towards the village.

“Hasn’t training helped you level? Or…what kind of stuff have you been doing to help people? If you’re Level 16, it’ll probably be a bit harder to level. Are you sure it’s not working?”

“I don’t know. I haven’t been training. And I help out, but doing construction work or lifting stuff doesn’t sound [Paladin]-like to me.”

“Okay. Then—what about training again? You could do that, right?”

Durene shrugged self-consciously.

“I can’t. The army’s disbanded. We used to have daily sparring and exercise, but Beniar says his [Riders] need to rest since they patrol all day. When Laken comes back—”

“He’ll see about reforming the army. Right.”

Ryoka shook her head. Durene did remind her of some people she’d met in her world. She tried again.

“What about sparring? Or practice by yourself?”

“Who would I spar with? And I can’t practice; I know how to hit things, but I’m not an expert. I don’t have a Skill, and I didn’t train that long.”

“So why not try and reform the army before Laken gets back?”

Durene exhaled exasperatedly and nodded, missing the look on Ryoka’s face.

“That’s what I keep saying. But Wiskeria won’t do it. She’s our [General], remember?”

“Right. And without a [General], reforming the army is a hopeless task. We should give up on it completely.”

Durene frowned.

“Well, I’m working on Wiskeria. She’ll come around, or Laken will persuade her.”

“Probably.”

Ryoka sighed again, louder. She stared at the village. It was bustling. She saw a team of woodcutters marching back with wagons full of lumber pulled by a pair of mules. They had to wait to get in; more work was being done at the edges of the village. The [Builders] could put up a house in hours. And the fields were vast; Ryoka had seen how much was being grown and had peeked in the store houses.

Hell, they’d need to make a grain silo soon just to store the produce! At the same time, Riverfarm lacked a lot of basic amenities. It was trying to complete itself, take in the excess population flooding it, and tend to security, social problems like Lancrel’s troublemakers, and the [Witches] all at once.

What the village needed wasn’t a bright idea, but a leader who could manage it all. It needed Laken. Since Ryoka wasn’t him, she felt like adding anything would make the precarious balance break. Still, he’d asked for her help. Grimacing, she pointed back at the field.

“Durene, do you know what a grain silo is?”

She hated the way the [Farmer]’s eyes lit up, and Durene stopped.

“No. What is it? Did you have an idea?”

“No. Well—this is what it is. It’s just an upright building, like a tower. And you pour grain inside…”

Ryoka explained, and Durene frowned.

“You mean like a warehouse.”

“Yup.”

“Why do we need one of those?”

“It’s…efficient? Good for bulk storage? Things don’t rot or decay fast in them, I think. Then again, you’d need a grain elevator—you know what? Forget it.”

“Well, if it’s as good as a [Preservation] spell, that’d be great. Why don’t you talk to Prost about it?”

“No, no—it was just a thought.”

“But it could be a good idea! Laken said you had some really great ones. What if you shared the other ones he wanted?”

Ryoka could barely remember all the things she’d suggested to him. Crop rotation? Efficient hand-plows? Had she talked about windmill-based power? She shook her head.

“My ‘ideas’. Yeah. Tell me again about the Goblins. The second group. Not the raiders. Especially the part where you attacked them first.”

“We didn’t do it first. Goblins were raiding us all over the place! This was the biggest army yet, and Laken said he sensed them attacking another city’s army. So he laid a trap!”

Durene corrected Ryoka severely. The City Runner frowned. She’d missed that part in Durene’s last catch up.

“They destroyed an army?”

“That’s what Laken said. What does it matter? They started attacking us afterwards. They destroyed Lancrel, and the raids that burned down half the area around Riverfarm were that tribe’s doing!”

The [Farmer] clenched her fists angrily. Ryoka eyed Durene’s hands and shook her head. She spoke carefully, clenching her right hand and unclenching it as she spoke.

“I know they’re dangerous. I met that Goblin Lord. He wiped out a Gnoll tribe for no reason. Or maybe it was just because I…”

She shook her head. Durene stared at her. Gnolls? She’d never met one, only heard of the furry, tribal people that lived among the Drakes. Ryoka’s expression was bleak. She looked down at her right hand and curled her three fingers.

“I know they’re dangerous. But I’ve also met ones that didn’t kill everything in sight. They’re a people. And Laken decided to attack this tribe and keep fighting when their Chieftain sued for peace.”

The criticism in her voice finally reached Durene, and she got what Ryoka was driving at. The half-Troll girl folded her arms. She was younger than Ryoka.

“Yeah. But they destroyed—”

“And Laken used poison gas. In his surprise attacks.”

“That’s what I said. It worked too! If we’d have gotten more of them, we wouldn’t have lost at Lancrel.”

Ryoka stared at Durene. There wasn’t a bit of guilt or hesitation in her tone. Ryoka shook her head. That was a conversation to be had with Laken. She sighed.

“I’m not going to comment. Hell, I’d probably try that if I had an army of Goblins coming at me. But he took those trebuchets and attacked Liscor. A Drake city.”

She walked on, stomping towards Riverfarm. The city needed walls too. No wonder the Goblins had attacked it so easily. Durene strode after Ryoka, worried.

“Rie and Prost said that Lord Tyrion Veltras was only—”

Ryoka spun around and stomped back towards her, and Durene stopped. Ryoka glared at Durene. She opened her mouth and caught herself. It was hard not to shout.

“Do you not…make opinions of your own? And do you believe everything Laken says? Just like that?”

“Yes. So what? He explained why he did what he did. I was there when he made all his plans. So was Prost and Rie. I mean, I have opinions. But I agree with Laken. What’s the problem?”

Durene looked challengingly at Ryoka. The City Runner inhaled furiously. As she did, a searing pain erupted in her abdomen. She doubled over as Durene stared in confusion at her.

“You—I think your problem is—hold on. Gah!”

“Ryoka? What’s wrong? Are you okay?”

The half-Troll girl bent anxiously. Ryoka clutched at her stomach. Uh oh. There was a familiar rumbling pain there. She gritted her teeth.

“It’s my stomach. Do you have an outhouse around here? I might need to throw up or use it. I’m not sure yet.”

“Yup. We have some there and there—”

“Where’s the closest?”

“This way.”

Ryoka turned and immediately began striding the way Durene had pointed. She was afraid to run. But she heard a bunch of hoof beats and turned to see Charlay making her way towards them. The Centauress looked just as pale as Ryoka all of a sudden as she returned from her walk.

“Ooh. Ooh. Ryoka, Durene, where’s the toilets? I’ll even take a latrine! Moving only made my stomach worse.”

“This way.”

The two hurried towards the row of outhouses in the distance. Durene followed, worried.

“Was it something you ate? Last night? I don’t feel anything, but I don’t get sick that much; I’ve never gotten food poisoning.”

Ryoka was in no mood to compliment her on her superior stomach due to her ancestry. She gritted her teeth as she tried to speed up. Charlay was holding her horse half. Was that where her stomach—? Ryoka groaned.

“I think it was the meat. Charlay and I had omelettes before you woke up. Do you know—what was it? Maybe it spoiled? It looked fresh, and I thought if I fried it, everything would be fine.”

The Centaur echoed Ryoka’s groan, loader.

“I thought it looked fresh! Did you cook it?”

“Of course I did, I’m asking Durene—”

“What meat?”

The two Runners looked back. Durene was staring at them. She shook her head.

“Ryoka, I didn’t bring any meat back with me from Riverfarm last night.”

Ryoka paused and looked suspiciously at Charlay.

“But you gave me a handful of meat to make with those omelettes. What the hell did we eat, then?”

Charlay frowned. Then Durene made a sound.

“Oh.”

“What?”

Ryoka turned around. Durene hesitated.

“Well, maybe it was Frostwing’s food? She was really angry when I woke up this morning, remember? I usually leave out some scraps in case she gets hungry at night.”

The City Runner felt a sinking in her stomach. Slowly, Ryoka looked at Charlay. The Centauress was avoiding her eye contact. Ryoka swallowed hard.

“…What kind of meat does Frostwing eat?”

“Uh—”

The pregnant pause told Ryoka all she wanted to know. Even so, the stupid part of her had to listen. Durene pointed in the direction of the fields.

“Rat meat? We feed it to the cats and Frostwing and Bismarck since they’ll eat it. It’s probably not rotten, but—”

She got no farther. Ryoka and Charlay raced towards the outhouses. There was, in fact, a small queue, despite the large number of smelling stalls. Riverfarm’s population was huge. The villagers and city folk looked up as Ryoka and Charlay raced towards them. Charlay screamed.

“Move it! I need an outhouse!”

Ryoka leapt into the first stall. She heard Charlay racing around and shouting, still in distress, as Ryoka tried to yank off her pants.

“They’re all too small! Where are the large ones?”

“That’s the largest we have.”

Someone replied outside, bemused. Charlay shrieked.

“Dead gods, don’t you have ones for Centaurs? What’s wrong with you people? Ryoka! Ryoka!”

She hammered on Ryoka’s stall. Ryoka was sitting and deciding whether or not to make herself puke as her insides started a revolution.

“I’m busy, Charlay! Go find a bush!”

“What? That’s barbaric—”

“Get lost!”

There was a moment of hesitation and then rapid hoof beats.

“This isn’t faaaaaaaair—”

Charlay’s wail fled into the distance with her galloping hooves. Ryoka stared at the wooden toilet. Then she felt her stomach. Rat meat. She swore.

“I’m going to kill that horse!”

And then, well, the next ten minutes or so saw Ryoka regretting ever existing. She was also deeply, extremely unhappy to realize that her toilet was not a contained box. In that the other people doing their business could probably hear a lot of what was going on. But the less said about it the better.

Eventually, Ryoka was relieved to know Riverfarm did have a form of toilet paper. Only, it was apparently a corn cob. She stared at it. There was some sense; after all, it was cheap. But corn cobs in a bucket? Really? She decided to use the pricey toilet paper she’d bought in Walta. That was a justifiable expense as far as she was concerned.

Ryoka left the outhouse at last. Her stomach still sort of hurt, but the worst was behind her. Hopefully. She was looking for a place to wash her hands and realizing that basic hygiene was not something Laken had fully implemented in Riverfarm yet. That was when she heard a voice.

“Bad day, Miss Griffin?”

Ryoka turned red. She saw a man coming out of an outhouse, buttoning his trousers. Mister Ram laughed as he held out a hand.

“We didn’t get to talk before. But I remembered you, and Prost and the other Riverfarm folk were telling me about how you delivered all that food to them during the winter. Wonderful thing. You’re a City Runner, right? I’m Ram Shackl, [Rancher] mostly, but a [Farmer] for now.”

“Uh—pleased!”

Ryoka hesitated, but the hand was out and both hers and Ram’s looked clean. Even if they weren’t. Gingerly, Ryoka shook hands. The foremost question in her mind was, ‘did he wipe?’ But Ryoka was also trying to hold a conversation. More people were coming in and out of the stalls. This was not the place, but Ram didn’t seem to mind.

“It’s a delight to meet Runners who’ll make the trip this far out without giving lip or treating the letters like trash. Let alone a big City Runner. It used to be hellish getting any letters delivered to my farm—I can’t pay silver for a delivery, or gold! And there’s no Runners about Riverfarm. Some former Street Runners, like Beycalt, but that was years ago! All of Lancrel’s Runners just found work elsewhere. Lucky them; they’re in demand.”

“That’s Runners for you.”

Ryoka smiled weakly. A woman walked out of another stall, a [Hunter] by the bow she’d left propped up by the door. She grabbed the unstrung bow and walked over.

“Miss Griffin? I’m Califfy, one of Riverfarm’s [Hunters]. I’d like to say hello too and thank you! I heard you talking with Ram.”

“Um, hi—”

Ryoka realized more and more people were looking over and recognizing her. What was worse, they apparently had time to come over and shake hands, whether or not they were about to use the restroom or just had. Ryoka tried to smile, touch hands as lightly as possible, and endure the backslapping.

“It’s really great you’re here. I don’t want to trouble you—Prost said you’re about His Majesty’s business and weren’t to be bothered. But if you could make a few deliveries on the way back…? You see, I have this cousin abouts, and I haven’t heard from him in…well, not since I left Windrest. Unless you’re busy?”

Ram was talking to Ryoka. Durene was watching from a distance upwind. Ryoka frowned.

“I am a City Runner. I can totally do that. Uh—where did you say he was?”

The [Rancher] brightened.

“Oh, about thirteen miles thataway. I can find him on a map if you have one. Otherwise, I could tell you the way—er, but I’m afraid I can’t afford to pay much. I gave what I had to Prost to buy what was needed for Riverfarm. But I could find a few copper—er—silver—”

He looked embarrassed as he patted at his belt. Ryoka hesitated.

“I don’t need to be paid. Durene’s putting me up in her cottage, and your, uh, [Emperor] did give me a lot of money to come here. To help. I’ll check on your cousin, no problem. If you write a letter, I could even deliver it today. It’s only thirteen miles.”

“Really? Then—would you check on someone I know, Miss Griffin? I don’t need a letter, but there’s a family I know just a bit up that way.”

The [Hunter] named Califfy grabbed Ryoka’s shoulder urgently. Ryoka turned and nodded.

“Of course! I’d be happy to. Uh—”

She looked around and realized what she was getting into. A lot of villagers waiting to use the toilets were looking hopeful. Ryoka hesitated, then nodded, 