ething special. Daly grinned at her, but didn’t mention Okasha out loud.

“I’ll say this, it’s nice having Kirana cooking. She knows enough vegetarian dishes to keep our picky eaters happy—and they’re tasty for us meat eaters too! Dinner should be ready in a few. You want to sit? Ken’s still talking. Lips of gold, that one.”

“Of course.”

Guiltily, Geneva realized she’d been moping rather than acting like a responsible leader. She followed Daly back into the apartment and tried to actually contribute rather than drag everyone down. That meant, sadly, that she had to rely on Okasha to do some of the talking.



——



That night, the United Nations ate like champions. In that they ate a lot, talked noisily, and were about as raucous and noisy as any group of young adults. It wasn’t for everyone; Geneva knew that some people ate leftovers in smaller groups, but the act of socialization was important. Everyone she looked at had a job. Even if some had vacation days like Andel, or were off-duty like the Bushrangers, they worked for a living. It changed them.

Gone, gone were the young men and women who had wandered into Baleros. The ones before her were still growing and still immature at times—like Dawson, who was one of the older ones—but they also had a level of emotional awareness that others their age might lack.

There were no adults to run to, no one to solve their problems but themselves. Paige and Daly broke up fights, but the Earthworlders had to resolve problems themselves. Some didn’t, but most rose to the challenge. As such, Geneva felt oddly at home, as if the young man of sixteen years old was a friend in his last year of medical college talking with her over his xelca meat mixed with curry.

“Hey, anyone want a drink? I’ve got some cheap, er—I think it’s a rum? Came off one of the boats! Not that crap they sell at the markets that’ll kick you off your ass and then on your back, but it’s still strong stuff! Watch yourselves, mind. If you’ve got work—”

Daly’s warning went unheeded as a shout went up and most of the table raised their glasses. He went around dishing out the alcoholic drink. Geneva had a glass herself—she watched as a girl of fifteen had a small shot mixed with a fruit juice.

No one raised an eyebrow. Alcohol was necessary. It helped take the edge off, and aside from Americans, most of the Earthworlders had tried alcohol. And it had the other effect of taking the most tired off to their beds after dinner. Full stomachs, excitement, and a bit of drink—people dropped off left and right.

There were some who stayed up, like the Bushrangers who weren’t working, but they’d had their fill of Ken’s stories enough not to groan too hard when Daly looked around and announced that the kitchen in the west apartment was now off-limits.

He’d chosen it because it had a door. Daly stood up as Geneva got to her feet. He approached her, smiling, but with a hint of reserve.

“Time for our chat. But, uh, Geneva, I know this is an important meeting, but Michael—you know, from Spain?—he’s worked up some cards. Wood, but we wanted to play some games. If you wanted to talk, we could do that before—”

Geneva was determined not to bring the group down. And in fact, this suggestion appealed to her. So she cut Daly off with a nod.

“Fine by me. But bring the alcohol. We might as well make a proper game of it.”

Daly’s surprised smile was enough of a reward. That was how Geneva found herself sitting at a table, playing on wooden, painted cards with Siri, Daly, Paige, Ken, and Aiko. They represented the United Nation’s leadership—although Luan was as yet missing. Siri was a new addition, but Daly explained her presence simply.

“She’s the best of us Bushrangers and a solid head. If I’m ever unable to take over, I’d trust Siri to make the right calls. Anyone object?”

No one did. Ken did look around, though, with a small frown.

“If Siri is Daly’s, um, backup, then Paige should be allowed to nominate someone. Is there anyone you would recommend we listen to, Paige?”

Daly hesitated as he shuffled the thin, wood cards that Michael had made. They were simple, but even the act of shuffling them made some at the table perk up.

“Dunno about the other guys. Dawson’s a fighter, but he’s a bit iffy sometimes. Paige?”

She shrugged.

“There’s no one I’d call a leader. I handle the home front. Kirana’s good, but she bosses around the girls from her country mainly. I think she has something on them or there’s a reason why they’re listening to her she’s not saying.”

“Caste system? Doesn’t India have that?”

“Mm. Might be? But I think it’s something else. Maybe her parents were someone famous. Or maybe she’s just better at leading them. She had to get them out of the jungle after the guys got executed.”

“True. Ah, well. We’ll hold off on Kirana. Too many girls as it is. Yow!”

Daly yelped. Ken smiled, and the Australian checked the deck.

“Got fifty-four cards—no jokers. But instead—hah! Good on Michael. Look.”

He raised a card. Instead of the joker card, Michael had painted a [Doctor] wildcard, complete with a red cross. Geneva blinked at it as the others chuckled. Daly placed the two aside as he shuffled the deck.

“Alright, before we get to chatting—what’s our game? Swedish Rummy? Oh Hell? Donkey?”

“Aiko and Ken probably don’t know those games. Don’t make it complex, Daly. Let’s just start with poker. We can go from there.”

Daly shrugged. He began dealing out the cards. Siri looked at her hand as Aiko quietly asked Paige to refresh her on how to play.

“What shall we play for?”

“How about…coins?”

“Oh come on—”

“Not for real. It’s all company money anyways. But we do have a bit of spending money. Say we use that and pool it? But the winner takes like…a few silver coins more than the others?”

Geneva nodded, and the others agreed. Soon, they were playing cards while talking, pausing only to bid and reveal who had the winning hand. Daly chuckled as he took the first bid with three twos.

“So? I think we’ve all heard the bad news. No big haul from the expedition.”

Siri looked up. Geneva had only met her once, doing her examination before she’d left. The [Doctor] stared down at her garbage hand and shook her head.

“That’s right. I’m sorry—”

“It wasn’t Geneva’s fault! Healing potions are too useful!”

Aiko protested. She was a poor player of poker, as was Ken. It wasn’t a natural game to them—they probably would have swept the competition playing another game, though. Mahjong, maybe. Ken knew how to play that. Aiko was bleeding silver while Ken won a hand by luck.

“It’s fine, Aiko. Thank you, but I can’t say anything other than that I should have seen it coming. There’s no need for [Doctors] outside of a battlefield. Not as much need for them there either, frankly. That’s all.”

Geneva sighed. That was the truth of it. If a company had healing potions in supply, even on the battlefield, they could heal most injuries right off. Her business came from poor companies—or situations where healing potions were hard to come by. Things like Evercut Arrows gave her work, but they were in short supply in taverns. Usually.

Paige exhaled, trying to keep sounding upbeat.

“It can’t be helped. But you did get me some of the ingredients I wanted. And you got our name out. That’s a plus. But Aiko did say you got some work done with the [Healers], Geneva.”

The [Doctor] nodded as she placed her cards on the table.

“Fold. That’s right. I went around to [Healers] and paid them to show me their poultices and secret recipes. Mainly in hopes of discovering something useful. I also investigated past diseases, plagues, and other ailments that occur on Baleros. To familiarize myself with them before I have to treat them.”

She looked at Siri as she said this. The Swedish girl nodded seriously, placing two cards down and gesturing at Daly to give her two in return. She had an excellent poker face.

“What did you find?”

“Honestly? A mixed bag. As I said, injuries aren’t nearly as bad here as they are in our world. True, amputations occur more frequently since healing potions have limits and surgery is primitive, but people survive amputations, and there are magical prostheses.”

“Pro-what? Ken?”

“Prosthetics. They’re…”

Ken lapsed into Japanese. Aiko nodded.

“Oh! Like Quexa’s leg!”

“Except some are magic. Which means you can have an arm made out of fire or some shite like that. What else, Geneva?”

Daly frowned at his hand. Geneva shrugged.

“Illnesses aren’t as prevalent either. At least, plagues and other major outbreaks don’t occur that often, despite the lower level of hygiene.”

“Oh come on. Why not?”

“Two reasons. Actually, three. First, a disease like a plague tends to move from city to city much slower, and the population density is lower here. Second, there isn’t as much international traffic. Less chance of diseases spreading to vulnerable populations without airplanes. Third—”

“Healing potions?”

The table groaned. Paige scooped up her winnings. Geneva frowned at her hand. She was getting trash.

“But not in the way you think. Potions don’t cure diseases, remember? They accelerate a body’s natural functions.”

“They make it worse.”

Siri looked up. Geneva nodded.

“Either a [Healer] figures out some kind of cure or the potions make the disease worse and it kills off everyone it infects. Plagues are far more deadly in this world because of potions. And when a truly virulent one appears…”

The others fell silent. Paige grimaced.

“Please tell me you can cure that. Or do something?”

Geneva glared at her cards and slapped them down on the table, one by one.

“I. Need. Antibiotics. But without them, there are some remedies that seem to work. There’s some antibiotic components in each of the recipes I learned. Not strong ones, though. But it’ll do until we can find something like penicillin. I’ve been using red wine or spirits as antiseptic…and there’s honey, ginger—and garlic.”

“How effective is it?”

Geneva sighed.

“Honestly? Don’t get sick. I can do something for you, but I’ll be relying on the body’s immune system as much as what I can do externally. But I am working on medicines. Poultices based off the [Healer]’s personal remedies that combines the best of them. So I’ll be able to do some work…but I’m not about to try and cure diseases.”

“Unless we can get an [Alchemist] to figure out how to find the penicillin mold.”

“If it exists. And won’t that be expensive?”

Daly muttered sourly. The table fell silent. Geneva felt a pang in her stomach. Ken, who’d lost every hand since his lucky one, looked up.

“It is not hopeless, though. We are improving. A few months ago, we were eating rice and afraid of paying rent. This is better. The Bushrangers are gaining fame. We are saving money. This is working.”

The others looked up. Ken smiled around the table. Then his eyes slid to the cards.

“Five copper coins.”

He had a good poker face too. Geneva calmly slid her coins over.

“Raise.”

“Call.”

“I fold.”

“Fold.”

Ken met Geneva’s eyes, a polite smile on his face.

“I raise.”

“I fold—no, I don’t—shut up, Okasha!”

Two voices burst from Geneva’s mouth. She scowled and put down her cards as Siri blinked and Daly sat back. Paige and Ken showed their cards along with everyone else. Daly laughed as it was revealed that Geneva had pure trash and Ken had a straight. The [Negotiator] took the round, and the others tossed in their cards.

“You had nothing!”

Okasha protested with Geneva’s voice. The [Doctor] closed her eyes.

“That’s why I was bluffing. Ken and Paige probably would have folded if we went another round. Okasha, you’re terrible at gambling.”

“You have nerves of steel.”

The Selphid grumbled. Ken smiled.

“Hello, Okasha. I probably would have folded. Geneva is very hard to read.”

“Hello, Ken. Hi everyone! Nice to meet you, Siri.”

Okasha smiled with Geneva’s face and introduced herself. The Swedish girl had heard about Geneva’s secret, but she had to do a double-take and ask the usual questions of Geneva. Did it hurt? What was it like? Geneva answered as best she could as Daly narrowed his eyes at Ken.

“Wait a second…are you reading our moods with your Skill?”

“I would not do that!”

Ken protested innocently. And his meager coin pile attested to that fact. Geneva grumbled as the table got back to the game.

“Let me do the gambling.”

“Fine. I’ll drink. Pass me the bottle, Paige? Thank you!”

The conversation passed back to the expedition’s results. Ken had a lot to say. He’d been more than just a mouthpiece to talk up the United Nations company. He’d observed, listened, and gossiped with as many people as possible. And his conclusions were frank.

“Baleros is…dangerous. Of the other continents, it is one of the most dangerous. Chandrar and Baleros are considered to be roughly equal—although Chandrar is more dangerous because of the climate than war. But Chandrar has slaves and the King of Destruction that we heard about.”

“Oh yeah. I heard people muttering about him.”

“Yes, he is concerning. But Baleros is just as dangerous. We were unlucky to come here, but luckier in some respects. There is a continent—Rhir. It is very dangerous.”

“I heard there are Demons there.”

“Demons? As in actual…?”

“I think they are a type of monster, Daly. Not Demons—yokai, Aiko—or anything else. But it is very deadly. On the other hand, Terandria and Izril are safer. There are Drakes, who are apparently very angry, who fight with Humans and Gnolls on Izril. They hate Lizardfolk, but Humans live on the northern half of Izril.”

“And Terandria? I’ve heard it’s mostly Human.”

“Yes, it is safe…but it is farthest of the continents away from Baleros. All the continents are far. Ship voyages are also dangerous and take a long time. We could hire a good ship and [Captain], but…”

“…Paying for all of us would be tough and we’d be starting from scratch, huh?”

“Exactly.”

“On the other hand, it’s something to consider. Okay, how about where we are?”

“Well, I think we chose a good city. You see, we are here—”

Ken paused the game to pull out a map of Baleros. They were on the lower southeastern coast, and Talenqual was connected via the trade roads to most of the other major cities in the area. He outlined a few zones north and to the west.

“There is fighting over there, but I think it is unlikely to come here. Talenqual is safe. And—this may be good or bad—it is not controlled by a Great Company.”

Daly nodded. He frowned down at the map. They were just a dot. Baleros was massive, and to Geneva, it vaguely resembled the Americas, albeit with a few noticeable differences. There was no Panama Canal—the continent was a fairly solid chunk that had a large southern jungle and vaguely hammer-esque north half. She watched as Daly traced their route—barely more than an inch on the map.

“Hell, this place is big. Tell us about the Great Companies, Ken. They’re the big players around here, right?”

Ken nodded. He sat back as the card game took a nap and the others leaned in.

“Okay. There are Four Great Companies. You know of them, right?”

Everyone sitting at the table nodded. How could you not? The Four Great Companies were the most powerful forces on the continent. More than nations, more than cities. Their reach was vast, and hundreds, possibly thousands of smaller companies had links to them.

“Well, I asked and each one is different in…temperament? Reputation, leadership—they are all distinct. As you know, the Iron Vanguard is up north. They are mostly Dullahans.”

“A species company.”

Paige put in. That meant a company that represented a species’ interests as much as their own advancement. Ken nodded.

“But not all Dullahans. The Iron Vanguard is old and established in the north. The north is, ah, cold. One of the only cold places in the world.”

“Pause. What do you mean ‘only’ cold places, Ken?”

The Australian girl frowned as she held out a hand. Ken pondered how to reply. Geneva stepped in for him.

“Only two continents have snowy regions. Except for Chandrar—the desert might qualify as a tundra. But besides mountains, only two areas have semi-permanent snow. The north-most parts of Baleros and Terandria.”

Paige frowned.

“Nothing on the south side?”

“Not a thing. Chandrar’s farther south, and it’s a desert. But not snow. And there isn’t an Antarctic region that I can tell.”

“Odd. Where is the equatorial line, then?”

Siri traced a finger across the map, perplexed. Daly hesitated.

“There might not be one. I was chatting with a bloke in the bar, and he claimed the earth was flat. Think that’s right? Or is it just a round planet and no one’s made the connection yet?”

Ken shook his head gravely.

“No, I think the earth may be flat, Daly. You see—I asked and there is an end of the world. Ships sail off it. It is a known fact.”

“Ah.”

The table went silent. Everyone tried to digest that information. Paige sat back, shaking her head.

“Two moons, a weird equator, the end of the world…I wish we had a telescope. Or a satellite.”

“You can build one later. Go on, Ken. The Iron Vanguard’s northern Dullahans. And?”

“Ah. You see, the Iron Vanguard has many…fortifications. The north is poorer, but it has some good metals to mine. So the Dullahans fortify it—and the Iron Vanguard controls much of the region. They are…an aggressive company. But they prize heavy armor.”

“Bunch of [Knights] tromping around tanking fireballs. I get it. And knowing Dullahans, they’re a right laugh.”

Aiko giggled. Ken nodded. That was fairly spot on.

“Their leader is the Seer of Steel. A [Juggernaut] with a body made of the most expensive armor money can buy.”

Siri raised an eyebrow.

“Why do they call him the Seer of Steel?”

Geneva muttered into her drink. Okasha poured her another refill. Both of them liked alcohol.

“Because he doesn’t go into battle with his head. He leaves that far, far away in his fortress. He controls the body with a scrying orb in place of his head. That way you can only hit his body. He’s practically impossible to kill, or so it’s said.”

“That’s properly intimidating. But I suppose a big shot would be like that.”

Daly slid his eyes sideways to Siri. Geneva wondered if they were trying to figure out how they’d kill something like that. Aiko looked around and spoke brightly.

“Very scary. But the Male—male—Ken, how do you say it?”

“Maelstrom’s Howling.”

“Thank you. Yes, they are not so bad. They are Centaurs! And Lizardfolk. They have a Centaur leader and her daughter’s one of the main commanders, and they control the—middle?”

She pointed to the map of Baleros.

“Very open plains. They have the most space, but since it is so wide, they cannot control—”

She mimed to say ‘all of it’. Ken nodded.

“And there is another company which emerged recently. The Forgotten Wing Company. They seized a lot of land from the other companies. They are the closest to us. Based in the south.”

“Yes! They are led by the Titan!”

Daly’s brows show up.

“I heard of that guy. The best [Strategist] in the world, right? What do you know about him?”

Ken shrugged.

“Much of it is gossip. So I did not trust it. But he is very intelligent. He teaches other [Strategists], and he is famous. Apparently he loves playing games of strategy? Anyways, his company is considered very powerful, but—”

He raised a finger.

“—It is considered fragile.”

“Fragile? How? It’s a fucking massive company, isn’t it?”

Daly frowned. Ken nodded.

“It is. But it is new. And people think that since the Titan and the leader—it has another leader called Three-Color Stalker whom no one knows except that she is a powerful [Assassin]—they think that if those two die, the company will fall apart.”

“Ah. So a few high-level blokes are the only things holding it together.”

“Yes. Pretty much. But while they live, it is very dangerous.”

“And the last company? The Eyes of Baleros?”

Siri was done drinking. She pushed her glass back and got some water instead. Ken frowned.

“I know little other than they are based deep in the jungle. Very secretive. They have the smallest land, but no one fights them. They are a species company. Of Gazers.”

The others at the table frowned. None of them had met a Gazer. From what they understood, they were a secretive people with huge eyes that had powerful magical properties. Ken hadn’t been able to get much solid information about them, but what he had heard had disinclined him to meet them in person.

“I have heard of Gazers and I…do not think they would be a good company to anger. From what I understand, the Eyes of Baleros is a very difficult company to work with.”

“Huh. So. We have a mixed company? The Forgotten Wing? A Centaur and Lizardfolk company, a Dullahan company, and a company made of…Gazers.”

“Actually, it is Centaurs, Dullahans, Gazers, and the Forgotten Wing Company.”

Aiko corrected Daly. Ken nodded.

“There was a Lizardfolk company who was the fourth Great Company, but the Forgotten Wing company replaced them.”

“So they’re really dangerous. Fine. That’s valuable information, Ken. But from where I sit, we’re not in a position to tangle with them anyways. I’m more focused on getting a solid base of support around here. Maybe work out a deal with Quallet—fuck, I don’t know. We need land or some big revenue source.”

Daly sighed. Paige nodded as she knocked back another shot of rum.

“I agree with Daly. I’m not suggesting we attract attention to ourselves, but having some backup would be nice. We’ve got allies, but they’re small players compared to a Great Company. And if war threatens, the company protecting this place, the Featherfolk Brigade, isn’t going to necessarily cut it. They don’t owe us anything, more to the point. And if they don’t like another company basing themselves here…”

“You want an army.”

Geneva spoke quietly. Daly looked up. He hesitated.

“Not one to fight with. But—there are big [Bandit Lords] and other companies out there, Geneva. I’d be reassured if we could scare them off, rather than chance it, if battle came calling.”

There was nothing she could argue with about that statement. Geneva was well aware of how Baleros worked. The strong survived. Daly sighed longer, louder.

“Honestly? A Gold-rank adventuring team would make any company hesitate. If we could get the Bushrangers to that level—”

“Impossible.”

Siri said it flatly. The Australian glared at her, but she was unmoved as she sipped her glass of water.

“We don’t have the levels, Daly. And though we do level, it’s too slowly. To level faster, to gain more money, we need artifacts to take on more monsters. Crossbows are too weak.”

“I know, but we’re paying the United Nation’s bills here, Siri.”

She nodded, but the frown didn’t go away. Paige looked between the two.

“I’m working on this new invention that might help—but we could use money back at home too. The apartment’s so full that we’ll start having fights.”

“And my tools and experiments take money. Rather than earn it.”

Geneva looked into her glass. How many times had Okasha filled it? She slumped over at the table. Daly winced.

“Don’t mind me, I’m just running my mouth. Look, Geneva. If you need money, we’ll earn it. You just keep figuring out stuff like antibiotics, syringes, and so on. We can pay the bills with the Bushrangers.”

“But Daly, you just said it. You need better weapons. Armor. Artifacts.”

Aiko looked worried. Daly grinned.

“Don’t worry. That’s if we want to take on bigger threats. We can earn a living just taking on lower-level monsters, right Siri?”

The Swedish girl nodded reluctantly. Geneva tried to remember the Bushrangers telling stories of hiding in the forest while bugs ate them alive. But Daly acted like it was nothing.

“Daly, you work very hard. If we can support you and your team—”

Ken began, but the young man from Australia waved a hand.

“Don’t worry about it. We can keep going on as we’re doing. It’s not the most profitable, but hey, even if Dawson bitches about it, a few days of rest make up for some hard hunts. Besides—”

He smiled tiredly.

“It’s not like I do much around here.”

Everyone looked at Daly. Paige shook her head and rolled her eyes. Ken frowned and slowly stood up.

“I do not think that is true. You hold together the company when we are gone. We rely on you.”

“Naw, that’s you and Luan and—”

Daly looked at Geneva. But Aiko was protesting.

“I think you are excellent, Daly! We need you, so do not be—Ken, what’s the word?”

“Modest.”

“Modest, yes!”

Daly flushed a bit.

“Well, okay. But look, I just meant the Bushrangers can keep funding us. And Luan’s pulling in coin—”

“Like I said, give me a few days, no, one day—there’s a lot Blake was talking about I want to try, and I have this idea—”

Paige spoke up. Siri leaned forwards.

“We can take on other assignments. If we get other weapons. They don’t have to be magical. But I was thinking. What if we carried warhammers—”

“For breaking armor? That’s heavy—”

“Well, only some of us. But with traps…”

“I am going to talk to Kirana about opening up a stall outside! We can sell some of her cooking.”

“—And if I can get the formula right, we don’t even need to use metal. Ken told me about a Japanese version that—”

The conversation was growing confused. Lots of voices melded together. Geneva slumped at the table, pouring herself another drink. She whispered the word in between the voices.

“Sorry.”

So many people trying so hard. And here she was. She vaguely realized that Okasha was trying to get her to stand up.

“Your liver isn’t happy. And I’m…drunk? We should lie down.”

That was a good point. Geneva got up. She didn’t remember excusing herself, only that the others were smiling and positive, and she—felt useless. She trundled up the stairs. Paige had told her to go to her workshop to sleep. After two tries, Geneva found it.

She lay on the ground, world spinning round and round. Trying to think. Okasha was singing in her head, babbling. The silly Selphid was drunk. Couldn’t hold her liquor. Not like…Geneva.

“Whee. Hey, I’ve never been in a living body, so I had no idea it does this when you get drunk. Did you know you have this weird thing that—”

“Go to sleep, Okasha.”

At some point, the Selphid did. Geneva felt it tugging at her mind too. She couldn’t move anymore, even when Paige and Aiko stumbled into the room and went to sleep. Geneva just lay there, feeling the floorboards pressing against her cheek. Her thoughts were muddled. But she knew one thing.

She was useless here. Useless, for all her knowledge. Sometimes, she wanted to go back to the wars. Where she had some use. But she couldn’t. She knew that. She couldn’t be a [Doctor] on the battlefield.

Because in war, it seemed that all a [Doctor] could do was make things worse.



——



The next day, Geneva woke up without a hangover. In fact, she felt fresh, good—and had a bladder that seemed to encompass her entire body. She got up, peed, and heard Okasha whispering in her head.

“Everything hurts…”

She’d taken care of the alcohol in Geneva’s system but couldn’t do the same for herself. Geneva let Okasha rest and ate for both of them. Then she went upstairs and began to do the only work she could. And even that was deferred work.

“How do the petri dishes look, Aiko?”

The girl peered into the glass dishes that Geneva had bought. The cultures of primitive gelatin were growing molds. The [Nurse] had a mask on her face. Geneva stood back, watching.

“Careful with the petri dish. Remember, my sterile field is down. The masks—”

“Yes, Geneva. I know. The bacteria is growing well. But the antibiotics…see?”

Aiko handled the dishes carefully, taking care not to bring them too close to her face. The masks were Geneva’s design, but she couldn’t be sure how well they protected Aiko. Geneva peered at them, taking care not to touch the petri dishes.

Her hands were sterile thanks to her Skill. And while Geneva had learned she could temporarily disable the field that cleansed the area around her, her hands would kill the bacteria in a moment. She frowned at the samples she’d made up.

She had mixed several of the [Healers]’ poultices into new batches, trying to find a mix of antibiotic agents to replace penicillin. So far, the results were promising…but hardly as good as penicillin itself.

“Not bad. But not good either. Look at how the bacteria’s resisting the samples. We have two strains—#4 and #6 that look like they’re the best. We’ll try them against other cultures. Let’s get a mouth swab. From someone else. Daly, maybe.”

“Yes, Geneva.”

Coming up with an antibiotic was one of the achievements Geneva was determined to hand the United Nations company. It was essential. Preventing diseases might not earn much money for the company—healing potions really did kill off a lot of people with bad illnesses if used carelessly on them—but it was vital nonetheless. She’d trade her left leg for penicillin. Hell, both legs. This world needed it. She needed it. Without that, Geneva’s skills outside of a battlefield were practically zero. Infections were the one thing she could cure, but this—

Geneva was laboring over another antibiotic test case with Aiko when someone pounded on the door. Daly thrust open the door, stopped as Geneva shouted at him, and backed up.

“Sorry! But I thought you should know—we just got word that the Gravetender’s Fist company is marching towards us!”

Both Aiko and Geneva looked up. Geneva’s heart skipped a beat.

“Did they say if they had injured?”

“No word on that. But they were doing a patrol along contested territory. I’m going to say hi to them! Meet me there!”

Daly raced out of the room. Aiko looked at Geneva. She nodded.

“Pack up. Seal all the containers. Carefully. Then we’ll head out.”

She straightened. A company had injured, usually, even if they were on peaceful duties. Accidents happened. Not that she wanted it. And healing potions—but there was a chance. She should hurry. Geneva looked around for her medical kit. Okasha, who was still recovering from her hangover, whispered in her ears.

“The company’s back? Oh good. Maybe someone will be hurt so you’ll stop complaining.”

Geneva ignored that. But a part of her, a cynical, dark part, hoped Okasha was right.



——



The Gravetender’s Fist company was camped outside of Talenqual. Naturally, a mercenary company couldn’t all enter a city. That was practically an invasion. It was only because Gravetender’s Fist had a reputation for honesty that they were allowed near the city at all. That, and the fact that the reigning company who controlled the city, the Featherfolk Brigade, outnumbered them substantially.

Gravetender’s Fist was still a small company. But they were gaining respect. Not only did they have an experienced leader, Quallet Marshhand, but every soldier was armed with a crossbow, which they usually fired before switching to other weapons. It was an interesting tactic, and refilling quarrels and selling crossbows had earned the United Nations company a tidy profit.

And Quallet’s company had strong ties to the United Nations company. Even if one wasn’t under control of the other and neither company owed the other anything, they had an agreement to support each other where possible. But none of that was really why Daly hurried towards the camp. He only stopped when he saw a distinctive Lizardgirl walking towards Talenqual with a slight catch to her stride.

Quexa looked a bit older than Daly remembered from his first encounter with her. But she was no less cheerful, and by now, her peg leg barely slowed her.

“Daly! I knew we’d see you! I told Quallet we had to stop here, and he agreed! How are you? You look good! Are the Bushrangers doing well?”

“Quexa. It’s good to see you.”

The two stopped as they met just outside of Talenqual. Daly looked at Quexa and then noticed she had company. Quallet, a Lizardman, and two officers that Daly vaguely recognized were accompanying the [Mercenary Captain] along with Quexa. She was his second-in-command. Quallet nodded at Daly as the Australian turned to greet him.

“Quallet. How’s business?”

“Good. We’re off-duty. We finished a patrolling job. Decided to stop by here.”

“I heard. Did you see any fighting?”

Quallet shook his head.

“Mostly quiet guard duty. But we did run into a [Necromancer]-led company on our route back this way. Brief battle—we both agreed to a ceasefire after we shot two volleys at him. Nearly broke his magic barrier.”

Daly smiled.

“Good to hear. Hey, I know Paige and Geneva are headed this way. I just—came along first.”

Quallet nodded. He glanced at Quexa then cleared this throat.

“We’ll head into the city. We’ve got business there. Quexa, find me later. I need to talk to Geneva.”

That got Daly’s attention.

“Anyone killed?”

“No. I’ve got two bad infections among my troops for Miss Geneva to look at. Human.”

He walked past Daly. Quexa fidgeted. The other officers followed Quallet, but the Lizardman stopped. He held out a claw.

“Hey, you’re the Human that Quexa had sex with! Hi! I’m Zalel!”

Daly choked. He hesitated, looked at Quexa, who was blushing with embarrassment, and held out a hand. The Lizardman shook it energetically after a moment.

“Uh, nice to meet you.”

“Great to meet you too! I’d love to chat, but old Quallet’ll get mad. Quexa, I’ll catch you later! Hey, wait up!”

Zalel followed the others. Quexa stared daggers at his back until he was gone and then turned hurriedly to Daly.

“I didn’t have sex with him. He’s just an old friend. Just so you know.”

“I didn’t ask.”

Daly instinctively replied. Part of him wanted to say it was fine whatever Quexa did, but that would be a lie. He hesitated.

“So, how’re you doing?”

“Good! I’ve been practicing new spells. Marching with the company—it was pretty dull, but hey, the job’s a job, right? And the company’s growing. It’s good to see you.”

Quexa blurted that last bit out. Daly smiled.

“Look at us, standing around. Say, want to go for a walk in the city? We can talk on the way.”

“Sure! I’m just dying for a nali-stick by the way.”

“It’ll be our first stop. My treat.”

“Oh, really? You’re so nice.”

“Well, maybe you can do me a favor in return.”

Quexa gave Daly a sharp look, and he elaborated.

“We’re looking for someone who can teach us [Repair]. Know any [Mages] who might be willing to do it for cheap?”

“Oh. Sure! I know a few names. What, are the ones in this city giving you a hard time with your flashy-things? Leave it to me! But tell me—how’ve you been? What have the Bushrangers been doing? Let’s find a cool place to sit, and you can tell me about it. Over a few nali-sticks. And some juice?”

“I’d love that. You’ve got the time, right?”

The Lizardgirl smiled.

“Quallet won’t mind. Come on!”

She pulled Daly forwards. He followed her and saw Quexa turn her head back and pause for a second.

“I’m not having sex with you afterwards, though. Just throwing that out there. Well, not just for a nali-stick…”

For the second time in as many minutes, Daly nearly inhaled his tongue. He stopped, sighed. And then he laughed.



——



“I didn’t want to interrupt you. But both of them have it bad, and they were whining to me the entire way here. They insisted I get you right away.”

Quallet looked as if he were always in a bad mood. But Geneva knew him well enough to know he was genuinely concerned for the two Human men he wanted her to see. For her part, she was fully equipped. Not that her patients needed surgery—they had infections. Bad ones, but Quallet had spared her the details.

Aiko was following Geneva, carrying some of their gear. Geneva paused in front of the tent where her first patient was waiting.

“Where’d they get the infections? Battle?”

“I wish. They got it at the last town we stopped at.”

Geneva frowned, perplexed.

“From what? Cuts? Something they ate? A bug?”

The [Mercenary] looked embarrassed. He shifted from foot to foot, a rare sign of discomfort.

“No. Ah, from a brothel.”

“Oh. So the infection’s…”

“I can tell them you don’t need to see them if—”

“No, it’s fine. I just need to be sure. It is on their genitals?”

Quallet nodded. He flushed a bit. Geneva was calm. She looked at Aiko. The [Nurse] looked distinctly embarrassed. Geneva was a [Doctor], and to her, private parts were all the same when someone was on the table. But Aiko was hesitant.

“You can let me do the diagnosis. I’ll only call you in if I need help.”

The Japanese young woman shook her head vigorously.

“No! I’m your assistant. So I will go with you! It’s just…”

She flushed again. Quallet looked at the both of them.

“I don’t think embarrassment’s going to be the worst of it. I took a look and—”

He shook his head.

“—it’s bad. The worst case of it I’ve seen.”

“Does it have a name?”

Geneva frowned. Quallet shrugged.

“It’s one of the new ones. I think they call it Yellow Rivers. But I didn’t ask too many questions. I’ve kept them isolated like you said I should do, but I wasn’t about to leave them.”

“No. You did the right thing. I’ll handle it from here. If there’s anything I can do—they know I can’t work miracles, right?”

Quallet nodded. But the look he gave her told Geneva that the story of the Last Light was still widely told in his company. She shook her head and took a breath. Not a surgery. But she was still a [Doctor].

“Alright, Aiko. Excuse me—”

She pushed open the tent flap. The man sitting on a cot and clutching at his groin looked up. His eyes widened as he saw Geneva and Aiko with masks on. His eyes went to Quallet, filling with hope.

“Is she—?”

The man nodded. The mercenary practically scrambled to his feet. Geneva held up a hand, wishing her reputation didn’t precede her. Now the fear was in her. What if she couldn’t help him? No, she had to see first. She was ready.

“Please. I’m just a [Doctor]. I can’t work miracles. I’m told you have an…infection. May I see it?”

“Uh—show you? Here?”

It was funny. For all she was a [Doctor], and he had clearly been hoping to see her, the man was obviously unprepared to drop his pants in front of two young women. But Geneva was used to reticent patients. She had the man lie back and pull his trousers down slowly. Aiko hid behind Geneva, peeking from behind her.

She needn’t have worried. The instant the man’s trousers and then underwear were off, embarrassment was the last thing that was in the mind of the two girls. Geneva saw the yellow-stained, wet underwear peel away. She saw a flash of paler skin. And then red and yellow and—

“Ah.”

Aiko’s eyes went wide. She covered her eyes—then her nose—and then dry heaved. Geneva mastered the impulse as the smell hit her—and then her nose went dead.

Thank you, Okasha.

But there was no way to turn off her eyes. Geneva stared down at the man’s groin, which was saturated with the worst case of…Yellow Rivers was a good name for it. The Human man looked up at Geneva, eyes pleading, full of pain. He was a man. Male, and proportioned as any man from Earth would be. But the rash and…it was hard to tell at first.

Geneva had seen a lot of horrific sights in medical school. But, she had to admit, even her stomach wanted to eject itself. Aiko was still gagging. Not just because of the sight. Because of the smell and the way the infection dripped.

But Geneva was a [Doctor]. And after a moment she took to assess the situation and control herself, she got to work.

“This is clearly a problem. You used a healing potion on it, didn’t you?”

“Yes. I thought it was a sore, but after I used it—it hurt so much. Please, can you fix it? I’d lose it. If it meant all this went away, even cutting it right off would be—”

The man whimpered. He was in a world of suffering. And that, more than anything, gave Geneva the ability to touch the inflicted areas, clearing pus away, getting a good look at the problem and telling Aiko to hand her the antibiotic treatments she’d worked up. That, and a strong pair of gloves.



——



The first patient took thirty minutes to tend to, and Geneva gave him a list of instructions and promised to be back the next day. His infection wouldn’t resolve itself overnight, no matter what he might have hoped, but she could see that her visit had given him some hope of surviving. The second patient Geneva saw was a little better—but only just.

“The same symptoms, the same illness and vector. It definitely came from your brothel.”

“And will it spread?”

Quallet was waiting for Geneva and Aiko after they finished the second patient. Geneva scrubbed her hands in two buckets of soapy water, never mind the fact that her hands were sterile and she’d worn gloves. There were some things you just needed to wash up for.

“Not if they keep out of contact with the others. And obviously I should say this: no sexual intercourse.”

“Won’t be a problem. You couldn’t pay anyone in the company to touch those two. Man, woman, Lizardfolk, Dullahan, Centaur—I don’t even think the Selphids would want a body like that.”

“Definitely not.”

Quallet nodded back towards the tent.

“Will they survive?”

“It’s down to how well my treatment works. And how clean they can keep the injury. They won’t be marching with you any time soon. They need rest, and the infections can’t be contained and agitated by their clothing.”

The [Captain] grimaced.

“So, what? They’ll be lying buck-naked with that out for—”

“Not in the open. There are bugs. I’ve bandaged the infections, and they’re not to agitate them. But yes. We’ll need two medical tents. And I’ll be back.”

Quallet gnawed on his lip, but he acceded without much fight.

“As you wish. But the cost—”

“It won’t be much for the treatments. Don’t worry about it.”

“Nonsense. I’ll cover it. And I’ll take it out of their hides once they’re better.”

Quallet shook his head and growled. Geneva looked at him. He was a good man, for all he acted aloof sometimes. She sighed, wiped her hands on a towel, and stood up.

“I hope I can make a difference. But seeing that—there’s something I need to do. Aiko, we’re headed back to the headquarters.”

“I’ll go with you. I need to talk to Paige about more crossbows anyways.”

Geneva nodded. She, Quallet, and Aiko—who wasn’t feeling hungry or eating ever again—walked slowly back to the city. They didn’t make much conversation. Quallet and Geneva lived in different worlds. But somehow, they understood each other. They each had their way of living.

“Geneva? How are the patients? I heard there were some people with bad infections.”

“Oh yes. Quallet can fill you in. But I’ve just had a thought. Actually, I could use your help. I need to make something.”

“Really?”

Paige perked up. Geneva nodded. She led them upstairs and borrowed some parchment. She began sketching her design. It was simple, really. It took Aiko a few seconds to figure out what it was. Paige got it in a moment.

“Oh come on. Really?”

“You think it’s not necessary? Because believe me, after what I just saw? We need them.”

“Oh, the infections were down there? Oh, gross…”

Geneva ignored the comment. She kept sketching, noting different materials down. Okasha raised Geneva’s hand and pointed at the image.

“What’s that?”

“A tool that will stop more infections. But we don’t have the right materials. Paige, there’s obviously no rubber available to us, but I think linen might work. Can you get me some?”

The Australian girl hesitated.

“I can get you linen—but really? Sorry, I know it’s silly, but this? There’s potions—”

Geneva interrupted her brusquely.

“And this is a different issue. Get me the linen. I need it to be waterproof and come up with a treatment for it. Something that won’t harm internal organs, but which might neutralize anything. Aiko? Where’s the medicine kit?”

The two girls went to get what Geneva wanted. Meanwhile, the [Doctor] tried to wrap her mind around the problem. They’d need it to be protective, but not cumbersome. It could not come loose. How would you hold it on? And obviously it would have to be tailored. Dullahans were like Humans, but there were different sizes. And Centaurs and Lizardfolk…

Geneva stared down at what she had designed. The simplest of tools from her world. Something so basic she hadn’t thought of it. Well, she had when she’d heard of some of the Earthworlders having sex, but when she heard about morning-after potions, she hadn’t looked into it. But after seeing that bacterial infection, Geneva was sure it was necessary.

“I don’t get it. But then again, this really isn’t a Selphid problem, is it?”

Okasha stared down at the blueprints. Geneva ignored that. The Selphid might understand bodies, but she didn’t understand germ theory.

“This will save lives, Okasha.”

“I guess? But will it save Selphids from our problem?”

Geneva looked up.

“Not in this way. But the problems are related. I’ve thought a lot about the symptoms you’ve described to me. Obviously I need to see the patients first, but if I’m right, isolating an antibiotic or even taking measures like this might—”

The door crashed open. For the second time this day, Geneva spun. She thought it was Paige or Aiko being loud. But it wasn’t. It was Daly. He was panting.

“Geneva! Get your surgical kit!”

Geneva’s pulse spiked. The tone of Daly’s voice, his posture, it all told her one thing. And then she felt a jolt of fear.

“Is it Quexa?”

He’d been on a date with her. But Daly was shaking his head. He pointed to the hallway where Siri was shouting at the other Bushrangers.

“I just got a [Message]. At the Adventurer’s Guild! It’s the groups of adventurers who went to the dungeon!”

Geneva just stared at him blankly. She had no idea about the dungeon that had just been found. Daly tried to explain, tripping over his words as he beckoned at her.

“The Rustless Guard, Salamander Swimmers, the Fivefold Verminslayers—all the adventurer teams who got to the dungeon are retreating. They broke through into an old tomb and unleashed a bunch of monsters!”

Monsters. Geneva whirled and looked for her surgical tools. She rushed out the door after Daly, shouting for Aiko and then giving up and running after him. He was shouting at the Bushrangers to assemble. But they were far from the dungeon! Still, Geneva ran after him.

“What kind of monsters? Spear Spiders? Face-Eater Moths?”

She’d treated both injuries. They were horrific to deal with, potions or not. But Daly just looked back, his face grim.

“Worse. Snakes.”



——



Captain Eldima looked up and saw death. It flowed from the dungeon, dozens of sinuous bodies. She turned and shouted.

“Retreat!”

Around her, adventurers were running. The Dullahan turned and ran, trying to carry both her tower shield and mace. But she was so slow. Her new iron armor dragged at her. And she knew the enemy was closing on her. So she readied herself. It wasn’t heroism that prompted her, just the knowledge that she couldn’t escape. She looked back and saw them.

Snakes. Or rather, serpents. Not pythons or the other snakes of the jungle. As dangerous as they were, these snakes were far, far worse. They were huge.

Giant snakes. That was all. But even the smallest was as wide as Eldima. And the largest? It rose and struck like lightning. An adventurer screamed—the fangs sank into the Lizardgirl’s back, and she jerked twice before the jaws crunched down. And then the snake swallowed her whole.

Effortlessly.

That was what the dungeon had held. No treasure. Even after all the excavation of the tunnels, all the adventurers had found were already-looted rooms. And then the snakes. They’d been resting in the dungeon, fat, gorged on the prey that wandered by the entrance. Now they had a meal.

“Rustless Guard, stand and fight!”

Eldima cried out. Her Dullahans turned and formed a wall of shields. The first snake slithered towards them. It regarded the metal-clad Dullahans and hesitated. But it could feel their heartbeats. So it wavered and then struck.

The impact threw Eldima and three of the Dullahans back a step. But they’d blocked the snake. It recoiled, hissing, and one of Eldima’s [Warriors] charged, swinging an axe.

“No! Kiltem! Get—”

Too late. The snake lunged. But not with its mouth. Kiltem’s charge was stopped as the serpent rammed him with its body, sending him to the ground. Quick as a flash, it was on him. He screamed as it bit at his body, rending the iron and his flesh beneath.

“—off him!”

Eldima charged forwards and bashed the snake with her mace. It recoiled, but its scales were thick! It butted Eldima, knocking her back. She stumbled—and another snake swung towards them.

“Keep running!”

“No! Kiltem’s down!”

Eldima shouted at the others. But they were wavering. The snakes had already taken out two adventuring groups in the dungeon. Eldima and the others had been battling them for an hour and a quarter, frantically trying to collapse tunnels in the dungeon, setting traps, anything to slow the serpents. But the hungry monsters had kept coming regardless.

And now? It was over. Eldima raised her shield, hoping to strike a blow at the serpent still trying to eat Kiltem. She had [Power Strike]. But it might not even damage the serpent. She swung desperately. She saw the snake coil and tried to bring up her shield—

The impact knocked Eldima’s head loose from her body. She hadn’t secured it properly, and her head went flying. Eldima felt the air rushing past her head and then screamed in pain as it struck the ground. Desperately, she rolled her eyes, but she was on her side. She could see her body and tried to control it. The snake was puzzled by the missing head, but it wrapped itself around Eldima anyways and squeezed.

Pain. On the ground, Eldima’s head screamed. Her body fought, but it was constricted, helpless. Her team tried to save her, but the second serpent was fighting them. And all Eldima could do was watch and feel her body dying.

It was every Dullahan’s worst nightmare. This was like how they executed their criminals. Eldima’s eyes filled with tears. She struggled, cried out—

“Please!”

And she saw a flash out of the corner of her eye. Movement. But not the fleeing adventurers. Movement in the other direction. A figure advancing, rather than fleeing from the dungeon. Eldima saw the figure raise something in its hand. A crossbow. And as she watched, he fired once.

The bolt shot from the wooden bow. It sped across the ground and hit the serpent crushing Eldima in the eye. The shot was perfect—the serpent recoiled, screaming, and let Eldima go. She saw her body fall to the ground. Sobbing, Eldima ordered her body to run towards her and snatch up her head. She placed her head on her body and turned, feeling her bent armor, her fractured bones. And then she saw him. She’d thought it was her imagination. But there he was.

Daly, the Captain of the Bushrangers, lowered his crossbow. He pulled the drawstring back, loaded another quarrel, aimed, and fired. The next bolt struck the serpent menacing Eldima’s team in the side of the head. It turned. The bolt had broken on its scales. But it was distracted. The Dullahans backed away, carrying their fallen comrade. And Daly pointed.

“Bushrangers, advance!”

Five figures strode past them. Each held a crossbow. Each raised it and fired. Five more bolts flew. One struck the serpent in its open mouth, and it recoiled. But only for a second. Then it came on.

The other serpents had noticed the strange anomaly in their fleeing prey. They turned, locking onto the Bushrangers. The five reloaded and then broke up as the snakes advanced, shifting their aim to individual snakes. They fired—the bolts struck scales. The snakes flinched, but then realized they weren’t hurt. So did the adventurers. One cried out.

“They’re not going through the scales, Daly!”

“Then aim for the eyes! Just keep them busy! Siri! Hit the lure!”

“On it!”

One of the Humans had something in her hands. She hit something. A light blossomed on the device she held. Eldima, staggering towards the group, trying to shout at them to run, heard a loud sound. And then a deafening sound that went straight through her body and armor.

The thundering dubstep was cranked up past what the speakers should have allowed. It was so loud that Eldima’s ears rang. She clamped her hands to her ears. But the effect on the sensitive snakes was even worse. They had no ears, and they writhed in agony and retreated as the sound thundered. One of them lunged—Dawson raised his shield and went flying.

“Fuck!”

The Bushrangers had attracted all the attention of the snakes. They abandoned the fleeing adventurers and focused on the team. Anything to get the music to stop. But Siri used the speaker like a weapon, aiming it at the nearest serpents.

“Pull back!”

Eldima staggered towards Daly. He was shouting, waving his team back. But too slowly. They were going to be surrounded! And whenever this strange artifact ran out, they’d be dead.

“No! A few more moments! Get in position! Stay with us!”

Daly roared at his team and Eldima. She thought that’s what he said—she couldn’t hear anything. The serpents were getting over their fear of the blasting music, though. Rage was propelling them forwards. Daly was pointing back. The Bushrangers ran backwards. The snakes followed.

They were going to die. They’d responded to the [Message] spell in time, but the Bushrangers were an ambush group. They weren’t equipped to go up against giant serpents! Eldima despaired. And then she looked behind her and saw them.

A row of bodies. It stretched across the muddy ground. Hundreds of bodies. Centaurs pulling wagons. Lizardmen and Lizardwomen holding crossbows. Dullahans armed with pikes. Eldima froze. There was an entire company here! A huge one! What company had appeared? She knew that the Gravetender’s Fist company was in the area. But this was too large to be just them.

Then she saw a Lizardgirl at the front of the ranks point at the serpents. The agitated monsters hadn’t realized the danger they were in. But they got a clue as an orb of fire blasted from her claw and struck one in the face. It writhed in agony. And the army in front of them raised their crossbows.

“Move!”

Daly grabbed Eldima. His team was racing to the side. Out of the way. And before they were even in the clear, the first volley of crossbows fired.

Hundreds of bolts flew through the air. Behind them, Centaurs with longbows aimed and fired. More [Mages] threw fire and lightning and acid. The serpents weathered the bolts, took the spells. They charged forwards, armored, huge. But the assembled force didn’t waver. The first rank of pikes swung up as more spells and arrows targeted the snakes’ eyes. And then one of the [Mages] threw a bolt of lightning that left only a crater where the largest serpent’s head should have been.

“Dead gods.”

Eldima whispered. She heard laughter above the ringing in her ears. She looked up and saw Daly, still grabbing hold of her, whooping and laughing as the serpents fell. Only one even reached the lines of warriors. The Dullahan looked up at Daly, and her thoughts were wonder.



——



“How did he do it?”

That was all Eldima could ask. All the other adventurers could ask. Bewildered, they watched as the company of warriors and irregulars calmly butchered what remained of the serpents, hauling the valuable meat and scaly hides away towards the city. Eldima looked around.

“How?”

Her gaze was on Daly. He had led a group back into the dungeon, to look for survivors. Now, he was tending to what wounded there were with a small team. Eldima’s ears were still ringing, but she saw Dullahans who’d been fighting pass her by and managed to ask the question everyone wanted to know.

“Who? The Human? He didn’t call us here. And we aren’t one company. The two on the field are from Gravetender’s Fist and the Featherfolk Brigade. You should recognize us.”

The Dullahan looked affronted. Eldima instinctively bowed her head; she was wearing mangled iron armor, and he wore steel.

“I am terribly sorry. But if he did not call you all—how?”

Why would so many respond to an adventurer’s [Message]? Normally, they’d just lock down the city and leave the adventurers to their fate. The Dullahan wearing steel frowned severely, but responded grudgingly at last.

“It was the Captain of the Bushrangers who made the plea, but our company commander acceded to the request thanks to another member of the Captain’s company. A…[Negotiator] convinced us to engage in this fight, as it was clearly one we could win.”

“You?”

“And the others. He pulled every one he could grab out of the city. Adventurers, Runners. Sailors.”

For a second, the Dullahan looked almost admiring. He pointed at a figure who hadn’t been part of the fighting.

Ken. He and Daly had organized the operation. And it was true. They hadn’t bothered to invite just one company. They’d gathered everyone they could find.

Giant serpents could kill one Silver-rank team. Or even a group of them. But a Gold-rank [Mage] who headed the Mage’s Guild in Talenqual? The Guildmaster of the Adventurer’s Guild? A [Captain] and his crew? Child’s play. And they had come. For sport. For the nobility of the cause. For an easy battle and a share of the profits. Anyone could make the argument. But only Ken had done it.

Eldima stared. But then she noticed another figure passing by all of the wounded, rapidly going from figure to figure, and then the silent shapes. Checking them. And Eldima’s eyes widened as someone whispered her name. She recalled a rumor and saw a legend in the flesh. And she looked at Daly and wondered what company he belonged to.



——



Wonder. Relief. Such were the emotions of the survivors. But Geneva was just…frustrated. She roamed the battlefield, ignoring the dead serpents that were being butchered. The smell, the sounds—all of it was reminiscent of a warzone between companies. But in this case—

“Any wounded? Any injured?”

Geneva called out for the eighth time. But she heard no one. No cries of pain. No shouts for a [Healer] or a potion. The adventurers who had fallen were dead beyond a shadow of a doubt. And the others?

“I’m fine. A healing potion took care of my wounds. And you splinted my bones. I will be fine. I am in your debt, [Doctor].”

The Dullahan named Kiltem reassured Geneva when she went to check on him. He was one of the few people she’d treated, and even then, the adventurers had known what to do. He would need to be carried and heal for at least a week, but with potions, his broken bones and body would mend quickly.

There was nothing for her to do. Again. Geneva looked around the battlefield, at Daly who was congratulating and thanking some of the people they’d called upon with Ken, at the Bushrangers testing their crossbows on a serpent corpse and shaking their heads—at the departing adventurers, [Warriors], and [Mages].

Useless. She’d come out here, rushed out here thinking to help evacuate the wounded. To save lives. But this hadn’t been her battle. It had been a triumph for the United Nations company—thanks to Ken and Daly. Thanks to diplomacy, words. Goodwill.

Geneva loved it. Hated it. She turned and walked over to Daly.

“Geneva? Everyone well?”

“They’re all fine. The dead—I can’t do much for them.”

Daly was high on relief and victory. But he paused as he saw Geneva’s face. He reached out and grabbed her shoulder gently.

“It’s good they didn’t need help, eh?”

She looked up and met his eyes. Guiltily, Geneva realized he was right.

“That’s true. I’m sorry.”

“Hey. Everyone knows you want to help. And you do.”

“How?”

He shrugged.

“Just by being here. Look.”

He pointed. And Geneva turned. She felt the eyes on her at last. Soldiers from Quallet’s company. The Featherfolk Brigade’s warriors. Even adventurers and sailors. Looking at her.

“They know you’ll be there when they need it. That’s enough.”

Daly’s voice was quiet. Geneva looked back at him. He smiled at her.

“Sometimes a [Doctor]’s work is just in the head. Just making people feel safe. Right?”

Geneva hesitated. And then her lips quirked. It wasn’t quite a smile. But it was close enough.

“No wonder Quexa likes him.”

Okasha remarked softly. For once, Geneva couldn’t disagree. She looked at Daly.

“You did a good job.”

He grinned, a look of delight for the compliment. Then he gave her a slight bow.

“Wish it were always that easy. But then, how’d we split the coin? Lousy job, this. Didn’t earn a copper penny, what with that lot hogging everything.”

Geneva chuckled. Daly nodded towards the Centaurs who’d raced a lot of the people on foot here.

“That lot’ll be heading back soon. Want to hitch a ride?”

“I think so. Let me at least fuss over the Dullahans with broken bones.”

After Geneva had loaded the Dullahans onto the smoothest wagon and ensured they were moving comfortably at a slow pace, she and Daly took another ride home. The two Centaurs were chatting the entire way back.

“Fantastic! I don’t know how you got those grouches from the Mage’s Guild to do it, but that was incredible! And we saved those adventurers.”

“And we get paid, right?”

“We’ll guarantee it ourselves, even if others claim all the serpent hides and meat.”

Ken reassured the Centaurs. Pihava tossed her head like a horse, her long hair doing the same work as a mane.

“That’s quite generous! Your company pulled out everything it had. Why? Do you know the teams that were in the dungeon?”

Ken and Daly exchanged a glance. They were riding in the front. Daly answered for them.

“Nah, just the one. It’s not that. It’s just—they needed help, right? And you don’t abandon your mates when they’re in trouble.”

“But they’re hardly your mates.”

“Not yet. But I think we could become friends. And hey, that’s what our company does best. Right, Ken?”

He nudged the Japanese [Negotiator]. They laughed. Geneva listened to the laughter. And she felt…better. Peaceful. Daly was right. It was a blessing not to be needed.

The Centaur’s wagon pulled into Talenqual with the others, pausing as the sudden influx of traffic caused a small jam. But they were content to wait, and Ken and Daly called out towards the others getting back to their jobs and lives, shouting congratulations, thanks. And Geneva was sure their company would be a name on every lip tonight.

“Alright! Back to the headquarters! I don’t care what anyone says—I’m buying some alcohol and we’re partying it up!”

Daly exclaimed to the cheers of his team. He was leading the way, talking about the battle—mainly about the high-level spells and Skills they’d seen. Geneva was following them, listening calmly, not feeling the painful lurching of impatience in her stomach. It was so pleasant, she didn’t notice the Bushrangers stop until she nearly ran into Ken’s back.

“What’s the matter?”

Someone was standing in front of the twin apartments. Not one of the United Nations company. A stranger. Geneva didn’t recognize him. Nor did she know what she was looking at for a second. A cat…man? No. A Beastkin from the Cat Tribe.

His fur was silky. His body, sinuous. He entranced the eye, as if he’d stepped out of an Egyptian hieroglyph. But then Geneva saw his lowered ears. The look on his all-too-understandable face.

“Rital?”

Daly paused uncertainly as he spotted the Cat-man. Rital turned. He had been standing in front of the United Nations headquarters, as if lost. He focused on Daly.

“Daly.”

There was something wrong. The elation of the Bushrangers faded. Daly exchanged looks with Ken.

“Hey, mate. What’s the matter?”

Because something was clearly wrong. Rital’s mouth opened and closed. The impish, fun-loving look on his face was gone. A look of desperation was there. He stared at Daly.

“It’s Hasty. Hastel.”

“Your wife?”

Daly didn’t know if they were married. Rital shook his head, but then he went on.

“She’s giving birth.”

“That’s…that’s great. Right?”

Rital didn’t respond. His eyes were wide, unblinking. He half-turned his head, staring down the street.

“She’s—it’s not—she’s not doing—the [Midwife] is with her. A lot of them, actually. But they say it’s—they’ve been going for two hours, and it’s—it’s bad. It’s very bad.”

The obvious question was, ‘how bad?’ But somehow, Daly couldn’t ask. He saw it on Rital’s face. The Cat-man looked back at him.

“I heard—there’s nothing I can do. No potions or magic. But I heard—your company has a [Doctor], right? That’s like a [Healer]? They can’t do anything. So I thought—”

Daly was frozen. He didn’t know what to do. What to say. He knew little about childbirth. And the other members of the Bushrangers were frozen too. There was nothing they could do.

But behind them, a young woman moved. She moved when no one else could. That was the function of a [Doctor]. Geneva pushed past Daly.

“Where is she?”

Rital stared blankly at Geneva, and then his eyes focused on her. With desperate hope. Fear and panic and a host of other terrible emotions ran through him. He reached out as if to touch Geneva, as if to see if she was real.

“It’s bad. Really bad. Are you the one they call the Last Light? Can you save her? Please?”

Geneva looked into Rital’s eyes. Daly saw her hesitate. A childbirth. It wasn’t the kind of surgery she was trained for, he knew. And she didn’t lie. Geneva didn’t, to her patients or her friends. But she reached out and grabbed Rital’s hand. And her grip was fierce enough to wake him up a bit. Geneva looked in his eyes.

“Take me to her. And I’ll do my best.”

He stared at her. Then he turned and ran. Geneva whirled. She shouted a name. For Aiko. And then she was running. Even Daly couldn’t keep up.



——



Miss Hastel was in her apartments. Lying on her side. A rug had been placed beneath her—not an expensive one, but a comfortable, well-used one. For the birth. And she was surrounded.

Two Centaurs, both female, a female Lizardfolk, and a female Dullahan were crowded around Hastel. All of them were [Midwives], a specialist type of [Healer]. The best in the city. But for all the expertise in the room, it was deathly quiet.

Miss Hastel’s face was pale. She was making a faint, animal noise. Her breathing was heavy. Sweat was drenching her body and the carpet. And protruding from beneath her tangled tail were two legs.

Geneva took in the scene in a moment as she burst into the apartment. She saw the [Midwives] turn in shock and anger. Their faces were pale. Hands bloody. Miss Hastel was bleeding too, a bit.

By her side, Rital was babbling. Trying to explain and plead at the same time. Geneva looked at him and made a call.

“Leave. There’s nothing you can do. I’ll save her if I can. Guard the door. Let Aiko and whoever I need through.”

Give him a task. One that he could do and feel like he was helping. Rital jerked. But Geneva wasn’t focusing on him. Next. The [Midwife] in charge was a Centaur. Geneva strode up to her.

“What’s going on?”

“Who are you? This is a very dangerous—”

“I’m a [Doctor]. I was told there was a problem. What is it?”

The Centaur met her eyes. She was older than the others, in her sixties, or so Geneva would have said. She wavered and then spoke quickly. Geneva listened, hearing Miss Hastel making incoherent sounds. One of the [Midwives] trying to comfort her. The room was tense, like a wake. If any of the Balerosians could have prayed, they would have.

And the sound beneath it all, beneath the pounding of Geneva’s heart, was the sound of her fear. The sheer terror only her will kept at bay.

She’d asked for this. She’d wanted the call. Begged for it in her mind. But that was the thing. When the call came, when the emergency happened, you were never quite ready for it.

Childbirth. Ken had once observed that Centaurs treated females differently than men. They didn’t execute female prisoners. And pregnant mothers were treated carefully regardless of the cause.

There was culture behind that reason. Culture and biology. Because Centaurs had tricky births.

Horses could have complicated births. So could Humans. But whatever their problems, Centaurs were worse because they combined both horse legs and Human head and hands together. Still, a body’s natural functions usually made the process of birth go correctly.

But not always. And it was in those complications where every expecting mother’s nightmares lurked. And a nightmare had occurred. The foal, the baby Centaur that Miss Hastel was delivering, had come out the wrong direction. The [Midwives] hadn’t known until they’d seen the angle of the legs, but they’d guessed. A sinking feeling not yet given voice. That quiet terror, building each second with certainty.

“The legs are tangled up with the birthing cord. It can’t come out.”

“It must.”

“If it does—”

That was all. The cord was tangled. The legs at the wrong angle. There was no way to correct it. The [Midwives] could have reversed the foal if it was in another position, but the foal was coming out as a dog sat. Part of it would come out, but the rest would be unable to be born. And the umbilical cord was tangled.

It was a death sentence for Centaurs. The [Midwives] had tried their best to remedy the situation, but there was only so much they could do. Walking, getting up and moving—they’d made Hastel do all of that, and the [Midwife] the Centaur landlady had hired was good. She’d helped with the pain, tried to correct the birth when she’d sensed it going wrong—but there was a limit to her Skills. To her experience, even.

Right now, she was stopping the birth with a Skill. But Miss Hastel was groaning, and her strength—and the foal’s—was fading fast. Both might die. The foal certainly would.

And here was Geneva. She understood nothing of foaling. She had not been raised on a farm. But the situation reminded her of a situation she’d studied in medical school.

Breech birth. The baby was at risk if a vaginal birth occurred. In this case, the birth would be fatal. So there was only one option Geneva could think of. But the knowledge terrified her.

How long had it taken to hear the [Midwife]’s hushed explanation, put together the obvious in her head? Geneva spun. She rushed to the door. Rital was there. He turned, hair on end, claws out. Daly was panting outside. He looked up. Geneva snapped at him.

“Get me Aiko. Now. And I need more hands. Steady ones. Paige. Siri.”

At the very least. She needed steady hands. And she needed potions. Geneva snapped, and Daly ran. She walked back inside, head light.

A surgeon knew how to do a Caesarian section. But Geneva would have gotten practice. She would have observed—and this was a Centaur. The biology could be—no, it was completely different. And Miss Hastel was already at the limits of her strength. Geneva would be fighting the contractions, racing against time.

If she cut the baby—

A thousand thoughts. Okasha was panicking in Geneva’s head. But the [Doctor] had an icy well in her. Something cold reached up and took control of her hands. Because if they shook, her patient died.

The [Midwife] was blocking Geneva’s way as she got ready. She’d seen the scalpel and feared the worst. The other [Midwives] were staring in horror at Geneva as she checked the sharpness of her blades. The Centaur blocked her, ready to do violence to prevent what might be a horror far worse. Geneva looked up at her.

“I can save her.”

She met the older Centaur’s eyes. And she saw the hopelessness, the fear and pain. And Geneva showed the [Midwife] what was in her eyes. In her very soul. The Centauress hesitated. And then she stood aside.

Geneva prayed. Then she began her work, and she prayed no longer. Because the child, Miss Hastel, were in no god’s hands, dead or alive.

They were in hers.



——



The first thing they had to do was push the baby back in, against the contractions, so Geneva could extract it via another method. That was the place where the [Midwives] could help, and they did once they realized the baby had no good way out as it was. Then…they were exiled as Geneva took over.

Cut. Slowly. So gingerly that Geneva could see the layers of cells peeling back. But oh, even more carefully. Look. Wait. Measure and cut again.

But too slow and it was too late. The [Midwife] was holding each contraction back with all her might. They all were. And hands were holding Hastel. Female hands. She had passed beyond the point of conscious thought. She was more animal than person, lying on the carpet. But she was awake. She couldn’t be put to sleep. There was no way. No time.

Skin was one thing. It could be stitched once more. Healed. But blood was another. A healing potion might do terrible, terrible things if it acted on the contracting birth canal. And it would close the damage Geneva needed to do. So Geneva had made up a transfusion. She had thanked every star in the sky that the compatibility test had revealed Miss Hastel could accept blood from most of the Centaurs outside.

They had given blood. The tube was crude. The blood poured into Miss Hastel’s veins. A horror show that Paige had to keep steady, keep feeding blood as Geneva measured Hastel’s blood loss and intake. And all the while, she cut. Tried to stem the bleeding. But inside—

The baby was there. Tangled up, half-born. Blood soaked the carpet. One of the [Midwives] began to panic and was ejected. Another fainted. Geneva paid no attention so long as they were out of the room.

A tangled umbilical cord. A knot, like a shoe lace. But oh, be careful. Be so careful. She untangled the foal. Hands wet with blood. If her hands weren’t sterile, this too would have been wrong. But she had Skills. And skill.

Swifter. Too much blood. More blood from outside. The bucket—clean. Gods, if there was rust—

Focusing. The Centaur made a sound, tried to move. The Human girls had to hold her down with all their might. And the [Midwives] were doing the same. Geneva extracted the foal. It was limp. It was not breathing. But the umbilical cord was cut. The Centauress said to wait. Geneva couldn’t.

The foal had a safe place waiting for it. Geneva just had to help it get there. She was focused, vision tunneled on her goal.

The Centauress—blood. See past the blood. Get rid of it. Aiko’s steady hands. Okasha made each movement of Geneva’s as precise as a laser.

See the damage. Begin to repair it. So many places—a dropper. Drops of healing potion as she stitched. Healing the wound, but not wholesale. More blood. Stitch. Quick, even, quick, even—

Something like an actual body reappearing. More healing potion. Watching bloody tears turn to scar and then heal. Together. Together. Check—remove the thread. Pulse? Breathing? A staring eye. The shock of a lifetime. But no words. Just waiting. She knows you’re helping.

Stitch. Pray. Stitch. And then—a cry. Baby horses—foals—didn’t breathe for a few seconds. But it took a Centaur child until they could raise their heads, a few minutes—before they would cry.

The sound made Geneva’s hands tremble for a moment. But she stilled herself. She sealed the rest of Miss Hastel. Healed her. And then she sat back.

Then she could shake. Then she could hear. Breathe, inhale the iron scent in the room. Hear the voices outside, see the relief in the others.

Siri, who had faced down a serpent with a crossbow and a dagger, sat on the ground, white-faced, unable to move for a second. Kirana, who’d held the Centauress down as she thrashed, was pale as ice. But then someone breathed. A girl from Earth whispered a prayer. And then the others realized it was done.

Geneva moved backwards. Her tools were bloody. They didn’t belong near the healed Miss Hastel any longer. The Centauress was covering her face with one arm. Tears in her eyes. She was alive. And then the foal cried again, a true wail. And the people outside went silent.

Listening.

Geneva leaned against a wall in Miss Hastel’s lovely home, her hands dripping blood onto the wallpaper. She didn’t even notice. The sweat Aiko had wiped away time and time again dripped down her face. She only raised her head when she heard and saw a Centaur approaching.

The old [Midwife] had regained some of the color in her face. More than the others in the room. She was tough. And she knelt to speak with Geneva. And the look in her eyes was an echo of the look Geneva had seen.

“My name is Caleffe Umbalt. I am honored, Miss Scala. Truly.”

“I—”

Geneva coughed. Her throat was dry. Someone handed her a water flask. She drank, coughed, nearly choked. Caleffe waited for her to speak.

“I—was just doing my job.”

“Then it is a job no one else could do. You saved her when I thought no one else could. I have heard of the Last Light. But I did not give the stories credence. Until now.”

“I’m not her. I’m just a person. I can’t work miracles.”

“So you say.”

That was all Caleffe said. She looked over her shoulder.

“What was that? I have heard of…cuttings being done. I thought you were going to kill the child. Remove it—that was how a Centauress was saved once. But never have I heard of someone cutting into her belly and removing…I would trust no one with that task. Not even the highest-level [Butcher] or [Blademaster].”

“Never them. I’m a [Doctor]. That was a Caesarian section. The first I’ve ever done. It’s something used if a birth can’t be done traditionally. Only a [Doctor] can do it.”

“I see. Then fate truly was kind.”

“My child?”

Geneva’s head turned. Miss Hastel’s head was raised. She was looking around. And Geneva saw a limp, wet shape. Clearly unhappy with being alive, struggling to get up. The [Midwives] rushed over. Caleffe stayed put.

“I can only thank you. From the bottom of my heart. Geneva Scala, you have saved their lives.”

She looked at Miss Hastel and the child. Geneva shook her head.

“It was an emergency. I did what I could. But I don’t want to ever do that again.”

A blind Caesarian section on another species without anesthesia or assistants or…Geneva wondered if something this nightmarish had ever happened. No, surely there had been worse cases. She heard a strangled laugh to her left.

Paige was sitting on the floor. Her legs had given way after she’d put the blood transfusion equipment down. She looked at Geneva, face pale, but laughing.

“What’s so funny?”

The Australian girl shook her head.

“Did you hear what you said, Geneva? Only a [Doctor] can do it.”

Geneva’s slow mind took a moment to react. She could hear Okasha whispering in her head.

“Thank goodness, thank goodness. A child!”

And then Geneva’s brain processed what Paige was saying.

“Oh. Oh.”

Caleffe nodded. She looked again at Miss Hastel.

“I know of many women who would prefer to know there was another way, a backup. Especially for Centaurs. The fear of it—”

“No scarring or stretching, right?”

Paige giggled, a touch hysterically, with relief. Caleffe looked at her with great interest.

“Really?”

“Caesarian sections should only be performed if necessary. There is still a risk, and the operation is traumatizing.”

Geneva said that automatically. But her mind was racing. A potion could heal the trauma in moments. Miss Hastel was even able to stand, though the [Midwives] were urging her to rest, and Rital was trying to support her—a somewhat futile endeavor. But she was standing, and she looked—

Another cry made Geneva’s head turn. She nearly dropped her scalpel. The foal was standing. He—it was a he, Geneva had barely noticed—was a tiny thing. A baby and a horse, mixed into one. But there was something entirely Human about the way he struggled to his feet, instinctively going towards his mother, who couldn’t be stopped from going to him.

Geneva stared. And in her head, the fear, concentration, intensity of her work, willpower, determination, all of it coalesced into a single moment. A kind of realization. A thought.

She’d saved dying men and women of all species, dragged them back to life and heard them thanking her. She’d saved lives on a bloody battlefield only to watch them die minutes later. Afterwards, she’d been as numb as relieved. The victory bittersweet. But this?

She looked down at the colt, already trying to stand. This was pure.

“I guess I should have trained to be an obstetrician.”

Geneva numbly spoke. It was the kind of stupid thing you said after an event like this. Caleffe looked confused. Paige grinned. And somehow, Geneva found herself sitting. Watching as a baby Centaur suckled for the first time. And then the door was opening, and she heard a cheer that made the baby start wailing, and people were staring at her—and she’d forgotten to wash her hands—

At some point, Geneva slept. And it was a fine, good, deep sleep. The call had come. And she’d been up to the task. That was all she’d wanted.



——



That night, Talenqual celebrated. For what, you couldn’t say. Not because no one knew—but because there were too many reasons. Because of the victory against the giant snakes? Because of Miss Hastel’s amazing birth that had defied all odds? Because of the Last Light? Because the legends were true?

You couldn’t say. But the streets were abuzz, and the United Nations apartments were filled with motion and life. Daly felt like he was caught up in a whirlpool. Every time he turned around, there was something to drag his attention. Kirana showcasing her foods to a hungry street. Rital, coming to shake his hand and thank him again and again because Geneva was asleep. An adventurer doing the same for different reasons—

“Mister Daly?”

Daly turned. A Dullahan with somewhat battered armor was standing in the street, head in her hands. She was chewing on a dahi kebab. She looked embarrassed and relieved and straight at Daly.

“Eldima? I mean, Captain Eldima, right?”

The leader of the Rustless Guard shook her head.

“Eldima is suitable. After all, your company saved mine.”

“Ah, well, it wasn’t just us. It was everyone—”

“Only one company organized it. It was yours.”

Daly didn’t fight Eldima on the issue. He turned and looked down the street. The Dullahan joined him. People were partying with the Earthworlders, and someone—Dawson probably—had just begun playing some music, almost as loud as when they’d fought the serpents. The bastard had even started with Down Under.

“You spent money for us. Hiring the Centaur Runners. Convincing the other companies and adventurers to help us. And it seems your company is giving out free food.”

Daly winced. That perception was probably one reason why this street was getting flooded. But he could only shrug.

“That’s the United Nations company for you, I guess. We’re poor, but rich in friends. Which is, I dunno, better? Something like that.”

He glanced sideways and saw Eldima smile slightly. Rare on a Dullahan.

“It is a strange philosophy for a mercenary company to have.”

“Ah, well, we’re more than just mercs. We form alliances. Friends. We don’t have enemies, really. This company wasn’t meant to seize power. But to protect. Gather folks like us.”

“I see. It is strange. I would have laughed to hear that a while ago.”

“Why?”

“Because that is how all of the Great Companies first formed.”

The Dullahan looked back at Daly. He blinked. Eldima tilted her head, and then put it on her shoulders and fastened it. She took a deep breath, then looked at Daly.

“I would like to join your company.”

“What?”

Daly was caught off-guard. Eldima took a breath.

“We owe you a debt. Besides which, my team is—not doing so well. We are slightly in debt for our armor, and it is hard to find work that pays enough. Reaching bounties on time, the cost of healing potions…”

“We’re not so hot ourselves. The Bushrangers aren’t famous, Eldima. We barely get by. And our headquarters—”

Daly gestured. Eldima nodded.

“I understand. But we would be willing to collaborate. Work together. But I feel—your company is one that I can trust. One that it would be good to be…friends with.”

She looked at Daly, almost pleadingly. He hesitated. But then the music swelled, and all he could do was smile. He held out a hand.

“Well then. I can’t say for sure what’ll happen next. But we can always use more friends.”

And he saw a smile. And that was all you needed on a night like this. Daly laughed. He looked up for a second, grinned at the sky, then taught a Dullahan how to dance.





6.07 D


Aiko Nonomura sat at a table and felt a bug run up her leg. She brushed it off absentmindedly, not even bothering to check what it was. A few months ago, Aiko would have screamed, cried, and washed her leg—especially since Baleros’ bugs were the kind of things that lodged in the mind. Literally, if they crawled up your nose.

Today, though, was different. Aiko could have stomped a dozen bugs and not blinked twice. There were more important things to worry about. Geneva had taught her that.

Yesterday, Aiko had helped deliver a Centaur baby—colt. A baby. And she hadn’t panicked or fainted. She couldn’t. She’d been Geneva’s assistant. Wiping sweat, holding clamps—Aiko had seen worse than a childbirth. And in surgery, the stakes were never higher.

There was no surgery today. Everyone was hung over or tired from last night’s party. But the present leaders of the United Nations company were here. Geneva had woken up, and they were talking.

Just—talking about the future. But Aiko could sense a shift in the mood from last time they’d talked, two days ago. There was more optimism. Not just from Ken—he was always trying to be cheerful and bring everyone’s spirits up, even if Aiko could tell he wasn’t happy. But the reason the group felt better was because of her.

Geneva. She sat in her chair, not tense, worried, or guilty for once. The intensity of her eyes, that glare that could go through you, was subdued. She had done her job. She had saved Miss Hastel and delivered the baby. She felt…confident. Calmer. And Aiko was reassured for it.

They all were. Around the table, Daly, Paige, Siri, Ken, and Aiko sat, listening to Geneva outline her proposal.

“So, a clinic?”

Daly sat up. He looked good too. He’d come in late last night, and no one asked why. Come to that—some of the United Nations members hadn’t come back until the morning. Aiko wasn’t sure what to make of that; it wasn’t the fact that they might have found love outside the Human genome that bothered her. Dullahans, Lizardfolk—even Centaurs you could love, she was sure.

Because they were like people. You didn’t think they would be. You thought they’d be like aliens, but all too soon it felt like you were just talking to someone with a different face. And when you closed your eyes…

“A clinic. It doesn’t have to be large, but I need at least one room to perform surgeries in.”

Geneva nodded. Siri frowned a touch anxiously.

“That means another house at the least. Can we afford it?”

Paige snorted, but gently.

“We can afford it and maybe get two apartments on this street. Miss Hastel’s gratitude knows no bounds.”

“Well, I wouldn’t say no bounds—”

“Okay, she’s still going to charge us rent. But her gratitude goes a long way. We can definitely get a good deal on it. And from what you’re saying, Geneva, money might not be a problem anymore. Is that right?”

Paige looked at Geneva hopefully. The [Doctor] smiled slightly. She actually smiled!

“No. I think I’ve found a permanent source of income outside of treating amputated limbs and so on.”

“C-sections. Who would’ve thought?”

Daly leaned back. Ken looked from Geneva to Aiko.

“You think it will earn money, Geneva? And that you will have business?”

“I think so. Miss Caleffe told me Centaurs have the most complicated childbirths out of all the species, but there are always problems a [Midwife] has to learn to anticipate. And Caesarian sections are a way to avoid those complications. It’s not an easy way out—”

“Even if healing potions don’t leave a scar and it’s less strenuous on the body than birth.”

Paige muttered under her breath. Geneva gave her a reproving look.

“I don’t want to make it seem like this is the better option. And I am concerned about complications during the operation. I had no experience prior to this, and Miss Hastel was the first surgery I ever performed. There are four main species on Baleros, each with different anatomies…”

The others let Geneva go on. But despite the good [Doctor]’s reservations, her conclusion was the same.

“I can be on call for childbirths. And if a [Midwife] detects a problem or if a mother comes to me…I can perform the operation. It might be a case where those who are affluent come to me to have the operation done to preserve their figures or lessen the pain.”

Geneva grimaced. Aiko nodded. She’d heard of that happening. Too many operations as opposed to natural births. But that was a moral quandary for later. Right now, the point was that Geneva had something that everyone needed.

After all, wars came and went. Healing potions could heal most mundane injuries. And severed limbs were rare, if distressing anomalies. But childbirth was forever.

“We might get more patients coming in just by word of mouth alone. Saving Miss Hastel’s baby put your name out there again.”

Paige was trying to figure out how much they could spend to get Geneva’s clinic up and running. There were things to be considered, like how to charge people. Geneva was firm in that she’d give anyone who needed medical attention aid, especially pregnant mothers. Ken proposed a fine alternative—charge them by what they could pay. A [Merchant]’s wife could make up for a half dozen poorer patients.

But there was something else Geneva had to talk about. And it came up the instant she turned to Daly.

“I hear a group of Dullahans may be joining your team.”

“Ah. The Rustless Guard? Yeah. I spoke to Eldima last night. She was really impressed by our group. And I think we can hit it off. Uh—working together that is.”

Daly grinned sheepishly. A hint of a blush crossed his features. The others around the table reacted according to their personalities. Siri sighed. Paige rolled her eyes. Ken looked away politely. Aiko covered her mouth as she smiled. Geneva just stared.

“Did you two have sex?”

“Aw, come on, Geneva—”

“Answer the question.”

Daly hesitated.

“It was more like…uh, well, we didn’t get to sex, but—”

“Kissing? Penetration of any kind?”

“Fuck me. Why’s it so important?”

Daly stood up, flushing red with a bit of anger. Geneva sighed.

“Because—the next time you’re in that situation, you need to ask Eldima or Quexa or anyone you meet if they have any symptoms of infection around their genitals. And to be safe, you need to use this.”

She pulled something out of her pocket. Aiko recognized it at once. Paige had been helping Geneva make them based on the blueprints the [Doctor] had worked up last night. She must have been fast, because the completed product was already in Geneva’s hands. The first prototype of many.

The group of Earthworlders stared at the object curiously. Geneva shook it out, and Daly’s eyes widened. He took only a second to identify the crude linen condom and groaned.

“Oh come on. STD’s? You’ve got to be fucking kidding me.”

Siri blinked down at the object Geneva placed on the table. Ken eyed it, looking very surprised. He stared at Geneva.

“Condoms. And you want us to…”

“Wear them. Use them. And ask your partners if they show signs of infectious diseases. I’ll be giving the company a full lecture on what to ask for and symptoms later today. I should have done it last night before we had a party. If I hadn’t fallen asleep—I’m giving everyone a second checkup. This time, pants and underwear off. No objections.”

Geneva grimaced. The others looked at each other. Siri frowned.

“Is this serious, Geneva? Pregnancy isn’t a problem in this world. There’s a potion for that, you know. As for diseases—I haven’t heard of any. You said so yourself that plagues were rare.”

“That’s what I thought. Until I saw two of Quallet’s soldiers who had just contracted something called Yellow Rivers in a brothel. They were seriously ill. They’d used healing potions, and the infection had rapidly progressed. I have pictures. Do you want to see?”

The table blanched. Aiko felt her breakfast try to come up. Ken took one look at her face and hastily replied.

“No, we believe you. So there are infectious diseases, Geneva?”

“Yes. And if there’s one, there are more.”

Geneva tapped the condom grimly.

“I know there are potions to prevent pregnancy. And it’s not enough. A potion might prevent pregnancy, but only a condom will prevent STD’s—even then, it’s risky. So use one. Especially if you’re having sex with someone from another species. Don’t have sex unless you’re sure they’re fine, understand?”

Daly grumbled as he sat back down and leaned back in his chair, covering his eyes.

“You know, there was one good thing about coming to this world—”

“Magic?”

Siri smiled as Daly glanced up at her in ire. Then the Swedish girl looked at Geneva.

“I mean, could the infections also be magical?”

Geneva paused.

“It’s a distinct possibility. My two patients I’m treating by cleaning out their infections, bandaging them, and giving them an antibiotic treatment based on the [Healers]’ recipes. It will take me some time to see how effective the treatments I gave them are. But if it’s partially magical…I can’t stop a magical disease. I don’t know how. If there’s a magical antibiotic or…neutralizing agent, I need to use it.”

“There are dispelling charms and magics. I suppose an [Alchemist] might be able to find you an herb or mixture you could use.”

Geneva nodded.

“More research to do. But these condoms should work. They’re waterproof, and I’ve soaked them in a mild mixture I think should kill off bacteria. It works on the cultures I’ve been growing. Still, there’s only one way to be sure, so everyone needs to know the risks.”

Daly put his face in his hands.

“How’re we supposed to explain this to Quallet and the others?”

“I’ll do it.”

Ken looked miserable as he volunteered, but Geneva held up a hand.

“He’s in the city, isn’t he? Or rather, camped outside it? I’ll go with you.”

“We all will.”

Paige sighed. Aiko stood up and followed the group into the apartments. She looked at the other Earthworlders. Daly’s reaction was probably indicative of how the others would react. Sexually transmitted diseases felt like an Earth problem. But they were even worse here. She thought of the infected soldiers in Quallet’s company and had to excuse herself to sit down for a minute.



——



Aiko found the others talking to Quallet in the inn he’d rented. The [Mercenary Captain] was nodding as Geneva told him about STD’s in general terms.

“It’s a serious problem, Quallet. Your soldiers need to be briefed on the risks, especially of visiting brothels. Ken or I can give them the lecture itself, but I have to insist they hear it.”

Quallet was nodding before Geneva finished her sentence.

“You’re damned right it’s a problem. Anyone who comes down with that kind of sickness can’t use healing potions. It just makes the…rash worse. Very quickly. By all means, tell them. And I’ll make sure Quexa and my other officers knock it into their heads. But what’s this thing?”

He waved a hand at the condom Geneva was holding. Daly covered his face as Geneva explained what it was.

Credit to Quallet, his face barely twitched as she described—and showed him with a handy banana, the ubiquitous tool across all worlds—how it should work. But then he looked at the condom a second time and nodded.

“How many can you give me?”

“Excuse me?”

“For my company. It would ease my mind—and others, of course—to have them. Even if they’re not perfect. I’ll buy…damn. At least four hundred? They’re cheap, right? Or can we…reuse them?”

Geneva looked at the others. She had to excuse herself to go into a huddle with the others.

“We could import these materials and make up a few thousand. It’s not hard. It’s just—well, you know how they work, right?”

Paige hesitated and pulled a huge face.

“Who’ll make them? Us?”

Daly was mulling it over, hesitantly.

“We could get some of the people without jobs to do the work. It’s really not that bad. The pricey bit’s getting the materials and doing the condom properly. Linen, you see? But get a few [Stitchers]…”

Geneva nodded several times.

“We could outsource. Hire some Lizardfolk in the city to do the job. So long as there’s quality control.”

“Are we really getting into the condom business?”

Paige looked mildly upset as she protested. Daly, who’d finally gotten over his reservations, slapped her on the back. She punched him in the gut in return.

“Ow! Come on, Paige! We’re miles ahead of Baleros in terms of, uh, STD-prevention! Who’s got the best sex diseases? We do! Go Earth!”

Ken just sighed. Geneva was working out a plan to manufacture condoms with Paige and Quallet. Aiko leaned back as Ken and Daly began talking seriously about…boy things. She looked out the window of Quallet’s inn towards a glittering, shining body of water. It shone green in the morning’s light, and she could see people on the docks, ships in the harbor.

The ocean. For all that Baleros was jungles and forest around the city of Talenqual, it was a port city. And the sea was vast. Aiko looked out across it and thought of the one member of the company who hadn’t returned. She looked back.

“I’m spreading the word right now. No one’s visiting a brothel until we have more of these things. Geneva, I’d be grateful if you came with me.”

Quallet hurried down the steps. Geneva followed him. In the silence, the others looked at each other.

“Hell, if it earns us money…”

Daly shrugged, sighing. Paige nodded.

“It’s important. I’ll work with Geneva on this. But while she’s gone—Aiko, close that door for a second.”

Aiko did. Quallet’s room was quiet for a second as everyone glanced at Paige. The [Engineer] lowered her voice.

“Ken, you brought back what I needed on your trip. Alchemist’s materials. I haven’t been able to get ahold of the right stuff until now, but you found exactly what I needed.”

The young man from Japan smiled.

“It was the right ingredient? The [Alchemist] had a difficult time telling which substance you wanted, Paige. I am glad it was correct.”

She nodded.

“I can get more now that I know what to ask for. And it’s more plentiful than I thought. Charcoal, saltpeter…there are volcanoes too. So…I can make gunpowder now, guys.”

She looked around. The room went silent. Daly’s head rose, and Siri’s eyes flashed as she looked at Paige. The two adventurers glanced at each other.

“Guns?”

“Geneva won’t like it at all. And she had a point about spreading the tech, Paige.”

Daly frowned, worried. Paige nodded.

“Guns would be hard to make. And I’d have to have a [Blacksmith] help me, so it’s risky. They’d be able to see what I’m doing even if all I need are the metal parts. And…someone sees you using the guns, or just hears a rumor, and you’ll have people trying to steal them. Take them.”

“So what’s your idea? You have one, right?”

Siri met Paige’s eyes. The Australian girl nodded.

“I do. I’m skipping guns. I’ll…work on something. An emergency weapon like Daly’s poisoned miniature crossbow. But my real focus will be grenades.”

The others paused. Daly exhaled.

“Grenades? You mean…bombs.”

“It doesn’t need a metal shell. I could make a pot and fill it with shrapnel. It’s not even that far from an [Alchemist]’s creations. They have exploding flasks filled with oil and so on. But these will be non-magical.”

“You’ll need a separate space. And be careful. If you set stuff off—”

“I’ll be careful. But I want your approval before I argue it out with Geneva.”

Aiko bit her lip. Geneva wouldn’t like this at all. But Paige was looking at her, so Aiko nodded hesitantly. She’d seen monsters. If the Bushrangers were fighting them…oh, would they sell this to Quallet?

“We’ll take on the arguments. It’ll be a company secret. And no one lets the grenades be touched by anyone else. We use them, and that’s it.”

Daly’s eyes were lit up. He was already thinking how to use them. Ken nodded slowly. Aiko felt her stomach twist again. So that was today. Condoms and children. Grenades and gunpowder.

The room fell silent after that. Aiko looked again out the window. Softly, wishing he were here to say something—no, only that he were here, she spoke.

“I wonder where Luan is?”

The others looked at her. Aiko, staring out the window, saw Daly give Ken a look and then lean over to whisper. Ken made a very unhappy face, but he nodded. It was Paige who finally spoke up.

“Say, Aiko…while we’re on important topics, about you and Luan.”

“What about Luan?”

Aiko turned, confused. Paige hesitated. Ken took over for her.

“It is not that we do not understand, Aiko. But even if we are in another world, Luan was married. So it is not good to—I know that you like him, but even so, this is—”

He was glancing at the others. Daly sucked in his breath, and Paige was wincing. It took Aiko a moment to realize what Ken was suggesting. When she did understand, she was furious. She stomped over and punched Ken in the arm.

“It is not that. Never that.”

“Really? Aiko, stop, stop! But you’re always asking about Luan, so we thought—”

“No! It is—it’s about—”

It had been a secret between Aiko and Luan. A hypothesis, as Luan had put it. But he’d confirmed it, so she was sure he would take care of the matter before he came back. She might do the same. But she didn’t want a tattoo. Nevertheless, Aiko told them, furiously. Ken’s mouth opened. Siri’s eyes went wide. Daly and Paige looked at each other.

“Oh. I had no idea.”

“Is Luan sure?”

“He is married. He has a wife and baby.”

Aiko punched Ken in the shoulder again, hard. He stepped back and made a silent gesture of apology. She glared at him—they’d have words later. But Daly was turning pale.

“I think he’s right. I noticed it too.”

“When was the last time you thought of them?”

Paige looked at Siri. The Swedish girl shook her head.

“Not even once. Not even—”

Suddenly, there was a look of anguish in her eyes. Daly bit his lip. Ken, Aiko, Paige, they all paused as familiar faces came back. Aiko closed her eyes.

“You see? We do not remember.”

“So what’s Luan going to do about it?”

Aiko turned to Daly. The Australian was shaking his head. She pointed at her arm.

“Make sure he doesn’t ever forget.”



——



And miles to the north and east, far from Talenqual, at least for him, a South African man paused and took a sip of water. From a canteen at his side. The slightly warm water was very sweet to him. Refreshing. And also, his last drink.

That wasn’t too bad, but Luan Khumalo had underestimated the length of his journey by a few hours. He still wasn’t too concerned because he’d been regularly hydrating so he wasn’t in desperate need of water, but he made a note to store more water and rations. Just in case.

Then again, there was a lot of water around him. But as the saying went, water was all around, but not a drop of it would Luan drink. The ocean’s saltwater lapped at the side of his boat. And though Luan had reached the ocean from a river outlet, he hadn’t refilled his canteen in that water either.

It wasn’t a good idea. Even if Baleros’ waters looked fresh, leeches and other water-borne creatures could easily be drunk if Luan had tried the water. If he was desperate, he could boil some water, but Geneva had still warned him to buy his supplies at the Runner’s Guild instead.

“So I’ll get some water before I head back. It’s not a problem. Yeah.”

Luan tossed the empty water flask into the bottom of his small boat with a sigh. Then he picked up the two mounted oars attached to his boat and dipped them into the water. He pulled back, a single, fluid stroke. His boat shot across the water.

Boat. Actually, it was more like a canoe, but thinner. Built for Lizardfolk—it was as close as Luan could come to a proper single scull. Nevertheless, it was far bigger than anything he’d use in a race. Nor was it designed in the same way a modern shell would be.

And yet, Luan’s oars dipped into the water. He pulled, his legs straining against the wooden brace he’d installed. The water resisted, and in accordance with physics, the boat moved. The shell broke out of the surf, and Luan felt gravity fighting him. He pulled the oars back, dipped them into the water, pulled again.

Long power strokes. A steady, unfaltering pace. Luan breathed evenly, his body performing the action he’d practiced a hundred thousand times with ease. And his boat moved across the water.

Sculling. That was what you called it if you understood what Luan was doing. Rowing was another acceptable word. Paddling or kayaking would probably tempt Luan to smack the asker with an oar. But he accepted that not many people understood the very real difference between rowing and paddling. After all, some people would never so much as enter a boat in their lives. They’d live landlocked, and that was fine, if a bit sad. But Luan had made sculling his life’s work.

On Earth, he had been an Olympic hopeful. The person who would have represented his nation of South Africa in the single sculling event. It wasn’t an exaggeration to say that Luan was one of the best in the world at what he did.

And that thing was getting from point A to point B as fast as possible. Two kilometers, to be exact. Not that anyone in this world used kilometers as measurements.

“How many miles can you go in a day, Luan? Twenty? Fifty? Stupid…American…system!”

Luan growled to himself between oar strokes. Yes, two kilometers was what the single scull event he’d trained for was measured in. Two kilometers. The fastest team of rowers in the world could go two kilometers in under six minutes. That was blazingly quick. As for a single sculler, well, you’d be slower, but only by a minute. Yes, you could go faster than some people could run. But the difficulty was completely different. On land, any decent athlete could run that fast, if only for a while. But in the water?

Luan’s oars dipped into the water. He drew in, knees pressing inwards, and his arms stretched out. The paddles of the oars, which had been flat and drawing back, turned, twisting, and dipped into the water. Luan felt a moment where his weight pressed against the oar handles, and then he pulled.

Or rather, he pushed the boat through the water. It was a smooth movement that made the water ripple with the force as all the energy in his legs and arms and the weight of his body went into the motion. Accordingly, the boat moved faster, and Luan felt the power of the thrust carry him across the ocean. He bent forwards for another drive. Which was what you called that motion. Aiko had described it as ‘pulling the oars’. Luan had given up trying to correct her.

The shell was moving fast. And it would go faster if Luan could stop tearing at the water with each drive. It was throwing off his smooth rhythm and wasting the energy he was putting into the oars.

It made him feel like a beginner, actually. But Luan had grown…stronger over the last few weeks. So markedly so that he was struggling to find a new style that would keep up with his more powerful movements. He kept lapsing into his old patterns and having to correct himself.

Because that was the thing. Luan was flying across the ocean. This close to the shore, the waves weren’t that large, but Luan ignored them regardless. His single scull broke through the crest of a wave, soaking Luan from behind. He swore, but kept going, knowing he had more or less flat water to go through. And that his destination wasn’t far away.

He’d been rowing for a long time. For hours, in fact. And when he’d started, it had been from a town up the river he’d just left, twenty-eight miles away. And he had at least fifteen more to go.

“How many is that in kilometers? Seventy?”

Something like that. A long ways to go even on land. But Luan wasn’t that tired. And he was sure he’d get to his destination—a port city named Cinfal—soon enough. And that was because Luan could see how fast he was moving by the passing shoreline.

Here was the thing. His boat wasn’t nearly as streamlined as a modern craft. Luan hated it. It was made of wood and far, far wider than any boat designed for speed would be. And the riggers for his oars were a clumsy construction; he’d had to get them specialty-fitted and made by a [Blacksmith]. Even his oars were heavier. They’d given Luan blisters until he’d made the handles easier to hold. He’d also lost some of his calluses, but even so, they weren’t as nice on the palms.

All of these things made him slower. Especially the design of his shell and the weight. And yet, still, Luan Khumalo knew he could enter any Olympic race and win it with this boat and oars.

“Because I am a [Rower]. Not just a rower, but a [Rower]. Isn’t there a class for [Sculler] instead?”

Even the leveling system didn’t use proper terminology. Luan grunted. The sun shone down on his bare back. He swung the oars, feeling the smooth motion. Dipped them into the water. As Aiko put it, pulled.

And the boat nearly left the water this time. The force was like nothing Luan had ever felt, even when rowing in a coxless pair with his best friend. For a second, he stared at his arms. He had muscle of course, and he was an athlete. Even so, he shook his head.

“Bloody unfair.”

Yes, that was it. The more time Luan spent in this world, the more he was convinced that was what was happening. To him and the other people from Earth. They were part of a system that was just…

Unfair. Frankly, ludicrously unfair. Perhaps others would have called it magical, wonderful, but Luan was an athlete. He took no drugs. He practiced and exercised to achieve mastery over the one thing he was truly good at. He’d devoted his life to becoming a master at rowing. But someone could paddle about for a few weeks and gain a Skill that made them so much faster in the water than they had any right to be.

Skills. Levels. They allowed someone to reach past their limits. To do what was impossible. Luan had known it. Hell, he’d reveled in the fact, marveling at watching Daly use [Power Strike] or the way Geneva could make a bleeding patient just stop with a touch. That was one thing. But this?

Pull. The next drive made the wind rush past Luan’s back. He gritted his teeth. His shell was shooting through the water, much, much faster than anyone from his world could ever hope to be, he was sure. He couldn’t tell, but he thought he was going faster than most people could hope to run. Without Skills, that was.

[Boat: Spray Cutter]. [Power Strokes]. [Greater Endurance]. [Lesser Strength]. [Enhanced Durability – Oars]. [Boat: Lightweight Craft]. [Wave Sense].

Those were his Skills. Those, and a few more. Each one had made Luan’s already high-speed that much more ludicrous. One Skill. One Skill could turn you into the best athlete in the world if you were close.

[Lesser Strength]. Oh, it sounded weak, but it had made Luan so much stronger it was insane. As if he could lift an extra…what was it from pounds to kilograms, again? Ah yes, an extra 20 kilograms with each arm. Ridiculous. If you had that Skill on top of a body? The weight limits at the Olympics would have absolutely no meaning. As for [Greater Endurance]—

Luan had healing potions and stamina potions on his belt. It was a thing Runners used. Magic to make them fresh and rested, able to run all day at their peak performance. He hadn’t used a potion, and he’d been going at a fast pace this entire time. He could do three races back to back and win each one. His boat was barely affected by the waves. He could—and had—blocked an axe with his oar and not even chipped it. As for the rest?

Ludicrous. Unfair. And…so much fun. Luan wanted to laugh and marvel at the speed at which he was going. Laugh and weep because he hadn’t earned it. Not really. He’d just leveled up. The system had given him levels and a class. He was an [Expert Rower]. Level 27 in only two months.

“Perhaps I earned it. I don’t feel like it, though. Not at all. This is too easy. What if I were a [Warrior]? Level 27? What must they feel like if they’re Level 30? 40? 50? Like gods. And that’s too much power for any one man, woman…Dullahan…”

Dark thoughts for such a beautiful day. Baleros slowly passed by Luan on his right. Forests and jungles devolving to brilliant white sand or cliffs. And the ocean was another marvel. Untouched by trash, even a hint of it. Pure and brilliant, green fading to blue in the distance. A world without pollution. Luan wanted to turn and admire it. But he did have a job. So he kept rowing.

With his back turned, mind you. The biggest danger Luan’s technique held was that he was rowing with his back to the front of the boat. In other words, he couldn’t see what he was rowing towards. Not a problem if you were on a lake, competing in a race. But on the ocean or going up a winding river?

If he had to go slow, Luan would scull with one of the smaller oars. But when travelling from port to port along the continent’s shoreline, he used a different technique. Luan glanced at something propped in front of him as he drew forwards for another drive. A flash of light—he avoided staring at the reflected sun. But the image in the angled glass showed him a shape pulling out in front of him to the right. Luan cursed and pulled, using more force on his right. His shell turned.

“Thank you, mirrors. Thank you, Paige.”

He’d spotted the second canoe coming off a beach just in time. Luan’s course took him right, and the figures on the canoe turned to follow. He heard a shout.

“Hey! You there! The Human on the boat! Hold on, we want to talk!”

Lizardfolk. Luan chanced a glance over his shoulder and saw them. They were turning, trying to catch him. Luan could change the course of his shell—right now, he was headed around them, but that meant they had time to catch up. He could do that and make it a race, but instead—

“[Second Wind].”

Luan spoke the Skill and felt his body grow even fresher. Now he felt like he was on a day’s full rest. He swung forwards and drove his oars into the water. The South African man heard an exclamation from the boat and then a shout.

“One, two, stroke, stroke! Come on, catch him! There are eight of us—”

The eight Lizardfolk on the canoe turned. They were all using single oars, rowing towards Luan, trying to intercept him. But it was a futile effort. They had coordination and maybe some Skills of their own, but their canoe was too heavy, their technique imperfect. Compared to Luan, they could have been sitting still in the water. He raced past them and heard a shout.

“Aw, damn it you guys—”

Luan turned his head, wary of arrows. But the Lizardfolk had just given up. Some were laughing at their leader who was exasperatedly berating them. Another waved, and Luan grinned.

Good-natured Lizardfolk. Still, if they were [Pirates] or [Brigands], they’d force Luan to hand over his cargo and all the money he had on him. The [Rower] wasn’t about to take that chance. He kept going and spotted the canoe heading back down to the beach where it had been hidden.

“Most definitely bandits of some kind. But at least they didn’t shoot arrows at me.”

After all, it was dangerous doing his job. Luan’s boat was marked along the side with a bright white splotch of paint upon which was drawn a letter. Not an alphabetical letter, but an actual letter, envelope and all. It was a crude but effective way of letting people know he was a Runner—or rather, water-based Runner—delivering messages for the Runner’s Guild. It usually worked, but sometimes it made him a target.

Still, Luan hadn’t ever run into anything he couldn’t outscull yet. And he’d been working for two months. In fact, he was so good at his job making deliveries from port to port that people were already remembering his name. Calling him the ‘Human who actually knows how to row’. Not the flashiest of titles, but it was getting there.

A [Rower] from Earth. An athlete good at one thing, and one thing only, really. Luan’s smile faded. This was all he could do. He was no warrior, he didn’t like fighting, and he had no head for magic. He couldn’t help Paige build a steam engine or figure out how batteries were made—how were they made? Acid? He could only row. And so he did. Straight into Cinfal’s harbor and towards the docks. But Luan had to pause to let the navy pass him by.

“Whoa.”

Sixteen ships had been crowding Cinfal’s harbor. It was a large city, but the armada of vessels were huge. The largest warship was so big that it hadn’t even been able to get near the docks. It was a massive vessel with four masts that took an age to pass Luan by. No paddles for this great beast of a ship; it had opened all its sails, and wind was blowing hard into them, despite there being only a slight breeze to the day.

“Magic. I suppose that’s how you do it.”

Luan shaded his eyes as the lead warship passed him by. The hull wasn’t just plain wood; it had been painted yellow and black, giving it an eerie look, that of strikes of lightning against a black background. And on deck? Hundreds of [Sailors] and [Soldiers] moved about, armed with cutlasses, swords, some even wearing armor despite being at sea. A few waved to Luan as he passed. The others eyed him like an insect in his tiny craft.

And the warship even made waves. Luan cursed and swung his oars, dodging the first swells the ship left. The other fifteen ships followed it out of the harbor, all propelled unnaturally swiftly by the wind. Luan was sure he could take them any day in a race, even with a huge head start. But to see such massive vessels moving like that was still eerie.

When they were gone, Luan rowed into the harbor. He looked up, shouting, and switched to single-oar sculling to navigate past the smaller fishing ships and vessels still present. He waved, and a Dullahan directing traffic pointed and shouted in a voice even Luan could hear.

“Right-most dock, Human! Watch out! Trading cog’s inbound!”

Luan glanced up, saw the cog moving slowly towards him, and picked up his oars. The Dullahan blinked, and a few Lizardfolk unloading ships laughed and clapped their hands in delight as Luan zoomed past the cog to his place. By the time he’d tied his boat up, the Dullahan was striding towards him.

Part of Luan, a small part, wanted to act like a certain pirate captain as he stepped onto the dock. But since he didn’t want to sink his precious shell, he clambered out and waited for the Dullahan politely.

“Runner, are you?”

The female Dullahan propped her hand on her hips. Her head was being carried in a sling around her neck, much like a baby would be. Luan looked at that as he nodded.

“On a delivery.”

“Priority?”

“No. I can pay now.”

“Ah, well then, how long will you be here?”

“Let’s call it a day. I can actually drag this thing onto the docks if you’ve got a place to put it…”

It was far heavier than a modern boat, so Luan didn’t really want to do that if necessary. The Dullahan [Harbormistress] shook her head.

“No need. You saw that fleet heading out? They were our big customers. We’ll have open docks for at least a day or so. The fee will be four silver for the night.”

Luan grimaced. Four silver? That was a lot—but he was renting a space. And…he mentally tried to gauge how much it would be to pay for only a small time and hire people to haul the boat and rent more space.

“Four silver it is. Here you are.”

He carefully placed the silver coins into the Dullahan’s waiting palm. She couldn’t nod, but her body performed a kind of half-bow.

“It is accepted. Your name, Human?”

“Luan. Luan Khumalo.”

“You will be recognized by anyone managing the docks if I am not there. Need you further proof or will name and sight alone suffice?”

“It will suffice. Thank you.”

The Dullahan nodded, and then she was gone. Luan checked the knot securing his shell and then bent to grab his things. He could leave most of it in the vessel; a good harbor left no fear of [Thieves] stealing. But just to be safe, Luan took his most precious gear and his delivery, leaving only the empty water flask and some travel rations in the boat. And then he entered Cinfal.

“Excuse me. Coming through. Runner on a delivery.”

Luan’s first few steps out of the wet harbor and port area was into a market where fresh fish and, predictably, hawkers were waiting. They were hoping to prey on any fresh arrivals with shiny goods or the latest gossip. Directions to a brothel? Sharpen your sword? Like the seasoned [Sailors] and [Travellers], Luan pushed through them with an eye on his belt for stray hands. His cry also alleviated the press of bodies somewhat—a Runner had no time to buy knick knacks.

“Which way to the Runner’s Guild? Anyone?”

A dozen hands pointed. Luan hurried down the street, a touch unsteadily since his legs had grown used to the rowing. He made it to the Runner’s Guild quickly though; like any good guild in a port city, it was located near enough to the docks. There was a Lizardgirl receptionist at the desk. She looked up and grinned toothily as Luan came in.

“Hey! You’re that Human I heard so much about! Skin as dark as night and fast as a bird on the water? Luan?”

“That’s me.”

Luan dumped his package on the table. It was mail—and four individual deliveries, all held together in a thick bag. And heavy. The town he’d come from had paid him on top of the four individual delivery payments to get to Cinfal fast—the City Runners who went on foot didn’t want to make the difficult journey all the way here as the foot-route was twice as difficult and long as if you went by ocean.

“Wow! I got a message from Paxil that you were coming with a bunch of mail. Let’s see…four individual deliveries?”

“Right here.”

“Thank you! We’ll get Street Runners on it right away. May I see your Runner’s seal? Just a formality. Thank you again! And did you encounter anything of note on your way here?”

“I saw eight Lizardfolk on a canoe. They pushed off a beach and tried to catch me. I wasn’t sure if they were [Bandits], but I didn’t stick around to find out.”

“Ooh. Got it.”

The Lizardgirl noted the information down for any Runners in the area, or law enforcement. Then she smiled at Luan.

“Alright! We’re all set! Your payment for the packages as well as your current unclaimed coin comes to…”

She rummaged for Luan’s file, which was meticulously updated by [Message] spell between the Runner’s Guilds, especially if Luan was in the area. The Lizardgirl blinked, and Luan saw her neck frills open for a second in shock.

“A lot, I know.”

He smiled wearily at her. Luan hadn’t been back to Talenqual in a while. He’d gone from city to town to village, doing deliveries nonstop. As such, he had a fairly good idea of what had made her eyes pop.

The Lizardgirl stared at the number again and then coughed. She lowered her volume a tiny bit.

“Fifty-four gold coins from all your deliveries. You want it all now? Because I’ll have to open the strongbox to get it all if you do.”

Fifty-four coins. Luan’s smile sprang to his lips unbidden. Now that was the fruit of hard work. And from the look a Centaur [Runner] standing at a counter next to him was giving him, it was good even by City Runner standards.

“No. Just…four gold coin’s worth. I’ll pull the rest out when I get home.”

“You got it! Wow. That’s a lot of money. You sure you’re just a City Runner? I heard you can make it from Talenqual to Ravelm in less than two days!”

“I’m hoping to make it to Courier eventually. But a City Runner I am. Thank you.”

Luan accepted the four gold coins from the Lizardgirl and signed the receipt she handed him. She sighed.

“Wow. And you use that tiny boat! Who taught you how to row that well? Lizardfolk? It wasn’t Centaurs, that’s for sure. Right, Minerioune?”

She laughed and indicated the Centaur. Minerioune the Centaur didn’t laugh back with her.

“Let’s just say I was pretty good at it back home. One of the best, in fact.”

Luan smiled. The Lizardgirl nodded and didn’t ask for more details. She waved the next Runner in line forwards as Luan strode towards the door.

There went Luan Khumalo. A few of the Runners in the guild knew him, and he thought he recognized a few faces, but it was them knowing him, not the other way around. Because, and Luan was proud of this, Skills or no, he was developing a reputation as an excellent City Runner. Only two months and he’d already made a name for himself.

Luan specialized in lightning-quick deliveries from spot to spot. After all, it wasn’t as if he’d trained to do long-distance rowing. Even with [Greater Endurance] and all his Skills boosting his speed, there was a very hard limit on how far Luan could go. But fast? He could do fast.

“And it’ll be faster still if I can hold onto some of that gold I’ve earned.”

Luan muttered to himself as he pushed out the Runner’s Guild door. Now that he was on land and not in an athlete’s mindless trance, he could think about his future. He’d been mulling over the idea in his head. He was faster than the world record holders in his world already. But he could be even quicker in the water if he had the money to spend.

“Get a boat made of the lightest-weight wood. Sliding seat—and make it actually aerodynamic.”

That meant a proper single scull, long and narrow, not wide, like the one Luan was using. But to have that, he’d need a bag of holding, a good one, to hold his deliveries and other gear.

“And paddles. Lightweight. Made of that good wood the Lizardfolk use. Expensive. And enchanted.”

Yes, enchanted. Paddles enchanted with the [Weight] spell were what he wanted, according to an [Oarsman] he’d spoken with in a tavern. They’d add as much as fifty pounds to each stroke. And a spell could make the boat and oars practically featherweight. Add that to something to put the wind on his side—

Luan wondered if he could actually achieve liftoff with that kind of setup. He sighed happily, then frowned.

“But that’s hundreds, thousands of gold coins. And from what Paige said, this might be going towards a new apartment for the kids to live in.”

His good spirits sank a bit. But Luan refused to let them sink further. He shook his head.

“Children. They come first.”

Perhaps that was a harsh generalization, but Luan did truly feel like one of a few adults sometimes. Some of the Earthworlders brought over to this one were only fourteen or fifteen. Luan and Geneva were older than they were by a decade. They had to take care of them. And the fifty-four gold coins Luan had labored for was a big step in that direction.

“Time to head back to Talenqual. After a good night’s rest. Big dinner. Yeah.”

Luan licked his lips. He was exhausted from nearly a week of non-stop work. Part of him thought it would be best to get back to Talenqual tonight, but he was too tired to contemplate rowing for that long. If he could, he’d have arranged it so Paige could withdraw his earnings at the Runner’s Guild. But they were very careful to make sure a Runner’s hard-earned money wasn’t extorted or stolen from them.

Luan was about to head to the nearest inn and ask about a lovely bed and some food when a thought sprang out to him. Something in the back of his mind.

Children. No, child. Remember.

And then Luan did. The spring in his step faded. His smile vanished.

A sour-faced Dullahan passing by the Human on the street saw Luan’s smile turn into a dour look to rival his own. He stared as Luan’s pace slowed.

Child. His child. Remember it. Aiko’s words bounced around in Luan’s head along with his inescapable conclusion.

He’d forgotten again. Forgot…that he had a child. That he was married.

That they were left behind.

In the bustling streets of Cinfal, right outside the Runner’s Guild, Luan stopped and stared at the sky. Remember them. Remember their faces. Worst yet, you must remember to remember. Because if you don’t—

You’ll forget. Forget as easily as a lost pair of keys or a missing sock. As if they didn’t matter. As if they never existed. It was the same for Aiko. For everyone, Luan suspected. But he hadn’t brought his conclusion to the attention of the others yet. It was too strange an anomaly to fully understand.

And yet—he was certain it was true. Because Luan kept forgetting his baby’s face. And that—

“No.”

Luan’s fingers dug into his palm. He had to remember. A wild craze swept through him. For a second, he wanted to hurl the gold coins in his palm into the face of the Dullahan staring at him. Grab his oars, grab the knife Daly had given him and stab and cut everything around him. Gone. Gone from home and his family!

But that was not the way. Luan relaxed slightly. It was no one’s fault here. No one around him at least. Possibly no one at all was responsible for this. It might just be an accident. If it was the doing of someone, Luan would have vengeance. But if not?

Remember.

Luan walked slowly down the street. He thought of Aiko and what she’d suggested to him.

Yes. No time to go back and tell the others. Luan had to do it today. How long had it been since he’d forgotten this time? Six days? And he’d talked with Aiko, tried to force himself to remember. But the instant he’d stopped repeating the names in his head, capturing the face—it was gone. So, Luan decided to do what he should have done from the start. He turned to the nearest Lizardperson on the street and began to ask directions.



——



“Hello?”

The Lizardwoman in the small tattoo parlor looked up. She was a Lizardperson. She had scales. Admittedly, there were colorful designs painted on top of the scales, but as [Tattooists] went, Luan was fairly certain that this didn’t recommend her.

He stopped uncertainly in the entrance to the shop. The Lizardwoman’s eyes brightened as she saw what might be her first client in a while wavering. She scrambled out from behind her desk.

“Come in! Welcome, welcome! This is the Inked Scale, the best—and only—tattoo place in Cinfal! You want a tattoo? Have a seat! I’ll get some designs.”

“Ah, no thanks. I just came by to…I’ve got a design.”

“Ooh, really?”

The Lizardwoman stopped fumbling for some sketches. She came over to Luan as he walked over to a chair. The shop was very small and quite empty. He saw vials on racks, needles—and brushes.

“You do tattoos here?”

“Oh, sure! Tattoos for the fleshy folk, scale art for anyone who sheds. We even have stuff that keeps away fur if you’ve got body hair. Anything you need I can do! Don’t worry, I get [Sailors] from all over the world in here! Drowned People are the worst, between you and me.”

She winked at Luan. Reassured, the man smiled at her.

“I’m looking for something simple. Ink tattoo. Two words on my right arm. Right here.”

He placed his fingers on his arm, just below the wrist. The Lizardwoman nodded energetically. She already had a very long, very sharp stick of—Luan gave it a second look.

“What is that?”

“What, this? Never seen a tattooing needle before? Don’t worry, I only use the tip.”

The Lizardwoman smiled at Luan. She showed him a long, bamboo stick that had been carved with some extremely sharp points dark with ink. Half of it was lacquered, but the tips—Luan blanched a bit.

He’d seen tattoos being done before, but now that he recalled it, it was always with a tattooing machine. An electronic, handheld, mechanical device. He hadn’t made the obvious connection that no person in this world would have that kind of technology. The Lizardwoman saw he was having second thoughts and tried to reassure him.

“Don’t worry, don’t worry! The ink goes here, see, and the little needles go into your skin and let the ink stain it. It doesn’t hurt—er, much. Not unless the needles are really sharp, and believe me, they’re wicked sharp! Wait, this isn’t reassuring, is it?”

“I’ll…you can give me a tattoo, right? No blood or open wounds?”

“None at all. I’m Level 21. That’s good by our standards. And I’ve got healing potions in case you start bleeding, tons of experience—”

The Lizardwoman reassured Luan. He bit his lip, but he’d come this far.

“Okay. Can you put the names in black ink here? I’ll write them out so you can see the right spelling.”

He wrote carefully on a piece of parchment the Lizardwoman handed to him. She looked at it once, nodded, and then eyed Luan.

“That’s easy. I can have you done quick. But…ink, you said?”

“Yeah. Is that a problem?”

Luan grimaced at his arms. He’d barely see the tattoo. But what other choice was there? Aiko had suggested them as a permanent reminder. The Lizardwoman clearly saw his problem and swished her tail back and forth, but not for the reason Luan was expecting.

“It’s just—I don’t think black ink’s gonna show up well on your skin. You sure you don’t want other colors? ‘Cause we’ve got lots.”

“Other colors?”

Luan looked up with a frown. Wouldn’t they be just as hard to see? But the Lizardwoman was nodding energetically.

“Yeah! What, you thought I’d use natural inks on that skin? No thanks, pal! We’ll use a magical dye—it’s cooler anyways. I can make it glow in the dark, too. What color do you want? White? Red? Pink? Ooh, and look at this. This ink changes color depending on how warm it is. And this ink—”

She showed Luan a rapidly changing ink that flashed from color to color. He blinked at it.

“Uh, no. I’ll take—gold? Do you have—”

The Lizardwoman was already pulling out a golden vial. Literally golden in color. Luan stared at it as the liquid ink rolled back and forth. She eyed him, smiling.

“Glow in the dark? Other effects?”

“No, thank you.”

They’d make him too visible at night. Luan nodded as she offered him two more variants on the idea of gold and yellow. Then he frowned.

“How expensive is this?”

“For you and that tattoo? A gold coin. Yeah, I know it’s a bit pricey, but this ink isn’t cheap! Still, you don’t want much—[Sailors] now, they pay for the big stuff. You sure you don’t want your ink to do anything cool? I can make your tattoo change shapes too!”

“No. Just the names.”

“You’re the customer! You have half an hour to do this?”

“Yep. Here’s your payment.”

Luan handed the Lizardwoman a gold coin. She smiled and tucked it into her purse. Then she grabbed the vial and her bamboo needle.

“Here’s the rules: you sit there, I do my work. Don’t move your arm or I’ll have to put it in a clamp. Tell me if it hurts real bad and we can stop. But if you do, I get to tease you, got it? If you start bleeding, I’ll use a potion, but I don’t like to do that while tattooing. They mess up the ink sometimes.”

“Got it.”

Luan laid back and put his arm out as the Lizardwoman instructed him. He’d never wanted a tattoo and was afraid of that stick. But the first time she jabbed it into his skin, he only flinched a bit. And then the poking pain was a constant, so he quickly relaxed.

To his surprise, the Lizardwoman wasn’t at all chatty while doing her work. She was intent, her eyes focused on the delicate lettering she was writing onto Luan’s skin. And there was also a second reason.

Not five minutes into the tattooing, someone else entered the parlor. The [Tattooist] glanced up, but said not a word. Luan, whose eyes were closed, didn’t look up until he heard some heavy clicks on the floor. Then he looked up and saw a Minotaur standing over him.

“You’re the City Runner who goes by the name of Luan?”

The Minotaur stared down at Luan. The South African man tensed for a second. He couldn’t help it. The Minotaur was something right out of legends. Bull’s head, complete with horns. A humanoid body, heavily muscled but concealed by light Balerosian clothing. And like Centaurs, hooves instead of feet.

Minotaur. But Luan’s paralysis only lasted as long as it took him to realize the Minotaur was speaking English and behaving…like a normal person. Luan realized. Here was another species of this world. The Lizardwoman didn’t even seem bothered by his presence.

Then Luan realized he’d been addressed by name. He frowned up at the Minotaur.

“That’s me. Do I know you?”

He was sure the answer was no. For a reply, the Minotaur pulled up another chair and sat down on Luan’s other side, quite unbidden.

“My name is Venaz. I have an offer to make you, Luan the Runner.”

Luan glanced at the Minotaur and then at the [Tattooist] who was ignoring both of them. He frowned.

“I’m a bit busy, friend.”

“Which is why I came here. You can’t run away. Hear me out first. I’ve noted your career. You’re Luan. Human affiliated with a new company. United Nations or something. Served in Gravetender’s Fist, a suppression company as a mercenary before becoming a Runner. You’ve served for two months, but you have a number of notable deliveries.”

“Excuse me, I’m busy. If you want to talk, you can find me at the Runner’s Guild—”

Luan spoke up angrily, but Venaz only raised his voice, talking over Luan. He had an imperious nature, and Luan gave up trying to interrupt him after five tries.

“—not only considered near Courier-level on that boat in the water, but you’ve done what Runners consider dangerous deliveries. Noticeably, a mission to escort a young Dullahan being pursued by a suitor to her home city, delivering through crocodile-infested waters…does that count? Stupid report. But you did a trip to pick up a Dullahan in the starving city of Pxier before it was wiped clean…”

Luan stared at the Minotaur. Unbidden, the memory surged around him. Dragged him in.

Lizardfolk were friendly, cooperative, and social. They were the most pleasant of folk to be around—until you saw them at their most desperate. Then they were animals, like anyone else.

The frantic Dullahan [Merchant] at the docks. Yanking him on board and then seeing hundreds of slim bodies pouring into the harbor, leaping off the docks as Luan swung the oars and pulled through the water desperately. The Lizardfolk were screaming. They clawed at the boat as the Dullahan kicked their claws off. Luan was struggling, forcing the boat further from the harbor. Only as he fought his craft clear of them did he hear the starving Lizardfolk’s voices.

Take me with you.

Help.

Save my child.

Bring us.

Let us…

Luan jerked. The [Tattooist] must have sensed it, because she stopped just in time. She stared at Luan as Venaz paused. The Human caught his breath. The Lizardwoman grabbed his arm firmly.

“Hold still, please.”

After a second, Luan did. The pain returned. Venaz kept reading as if nothing had happened. But Luan was still remembering Pxier.

Starving people. The town had been raided of food and coin, and they had nothing to pay with. So rather than request food, the [Merchant] had bought his own life. Luan hadn’t known. The town was a blip on the map. Luan still remembered them trying to swim after him.

He should have stopped. But they’d eaten all the other non-Lizardfolk in the town already. The Dullahan had survived with an invisibility potion. Luan could remember the Dullahan shaking, talking about it.

Still, he should have slowed. Should have reached for one of the children being held out to him. Should have…

The next day, Luan had gone back with as much food as his little vessel could carry. But by that point, cannibalism had turned the townspeople against each other, not just outsiders. Luan had seen the nightmare, dropped the food on what remained of the docks, and fled.

Memory. Luan blinked, and Venaz was still talking. Listing off more of Luan’s accomplishments. How did he know so much? Luan shook his head, which earned him a tut of disapproval from the Lizardwoman.

He needed to go back to the two apartments. Hopefully, Geneva would be back. Or Paige. Luan could use time on the impromptu ‘therapy couch’ with one of them listening. The [Rower] glared at Venaz.

“Do you have a point here?”

The Minotaur harrumphed and stopped talking for a moment, which was a relief. The problem was when he started again.

“My point is that I know your capabilities. You’re fast on the water, nearly as fast as a Courier. But you’re not, which suits my needs. I have a job for you. It’s in three weeks. Interested?”

Luan stared at him. He looked around the parlor and then glowered at Venaz.

“You could have put in a request! Asked for me by name. I’d be happy to meet you whenever. This is rude. You are aware?”

His words and look bounced off Venaz’s face. The Minotaur sat back.

“I’m aware of Runner’s Guild protocol, thank you. But I wanted to meet you privately. Putting out a request is blatant. No one’s to know of this conversation taking place.”

“Oh. Really?”

Luan rolled his eyes at the Lizardwoman sitting right next to them. Venaz smirked.

“No one I’ve not accounted for. Why else do you think this place is empty?”

His words made Luan pause and look around the parlor. He’d assumed the Inked Scale was just unfrequented, but then, he’d seen the tattoos the [Sailors] sported on the docks. Venaz nodded to the door.

“The sign says closed now. And until this moment, I was using an artifact. No one noticed me coming in. The [Tattooist] will give me something that fades in a few days—I am no [Warrior], but a [Strategist]. As for you, you’ll go out the back after we’re done here. Our meeting was chance, and so this incident will not be reported by those watching me—if I haven’t given them the slip already. I’ll be doing enough suspicious things later that anyone will write this moment off. Well, the Professor might not, but he’s not the one I need to fool, is he?”

He smiled smugly, proud of himself. Luan digested this little monologue. Professor? Spies? This Venaz thought highly of himself. Then again, if he had a magical artifact, he had money to wave about.

“Why me?”

“As I said, Couriers attract too much attention. So I scouted you out. You’re the City Runner who most easily fits my qualifications. Waiting for you was a simple task.”

“You knew I’d be here?”

That threw Luan. But Venaz’s smug smile said it all.

“You inquired about tattoos in the last two Runner’s Guilds you visited, which indicated it was on your mind. This was the first city where you claimed any of your earnings, which gave me the clue. If you hadn’t stopped here, I would have found you in the inn this night.”

For some reason, Venaz felt like he was Luan’s age. Maybe even younger. Despite being taller than Luan and a lot bigger. Or maybe Luan just felt old these days. He frowned, deeply unhappy.

“People told you everything I was doing?”

Venaz shrugged.

“Everyone sells everything. For a price. This is Baleros. What did you expect? Now, about my offer—”

“Done!”

Both Venaz and Luan blinked and looked at the Lizardwoman. She blew on Luan’s skin and then tapped the slightly sore flesh.

“Look at that! Good, clean work! Not even a bit of blood! Like it?”

Luan stared down at his arm. There, written in gold, entirely without him knowing, were two names. Gold ink glittered at him, spelling out two words he would never, could never forget again.

His eyes stung. Luan looked down and thought of the two faces. His family. Smiling. Holding his son. Now the image was clearer in his head. And now, he was certain, he wouldn’t forget. All he had to do was look down.

“Thank you, Aiko.”

Luan felt the beginnings of tears. But then Venaz’s voice sounded right next to his ears, ruining the moment.

“You told me you could stretch out the tattoo for as long as I needed.”

He was scowling at the Lizardwoman. The [Tattooist] spread her claws innocently.

“It wasn’t a big job! And I’m an artist! What, you want me to poke him for another ten minutes? Because that’s rude and it hurts! You can do your tattoo now if you want.”

“No.”

Luan stood up suddenly. He glared at Venaz.

“I’m going back to find an inn. I paid you—”

He looked at the Lizardwoman, who looked mildly embarrassed and nodded. Luan turned to Venaz.

“—so you can find me or put in a formal request.”

He spun to go, but Venaz caught him. Luan went two steps, but the Minotaur didn’t budge. Luan spun back to him, angry now. Venaz’s face was impassive.

“And as I said, that’s not an option. Hear me out. It benefits you and I.”

He paused for a second and eyed the tattoo shining on Luan’s wrist.

“Hm. I didn’t ask. What’s the tattoo about? Odd writing, that.”

Luan wanted to cover the tattoo. He glared up at Venaz.

“The names of my son and my wife. So I don’t forget.”

“Did you think you would? Shameful.”

The casual comment made something snap in Luan. He raised a fist and punched Venaz in the solar plexus as hard as he could.

Nothing happened. Except to Luan’s fist, that was. Luan felt like he’d punched a mildly rubbery rock. More rock than rubber, really. He stepped back, suddenly wary. Venaz had let him go, but he hadn’t so much as budged. He eyed Luan, and then the Minotaur grinned.

“My name is Venaz, City Runner Luan Khumalo. I’ve told you it twice now. Remember it, for it will one day be famous. So, do we have a deal?”

Luan stared at Venaz, rubbing his knuckles. Then he had to laugh. The Lizardwoman stepped back, sweeping her fragile vials of ink out of the way as he and Venaz sized each other up a second time.

“Okay, what’s the mission? How dangerous is it?”

“Not at all. But I require your word before I tell you more than the rough details.”

“Tell me the basics, then. I won’t commit to anything too dangerous. Or illegal.”

Venaz nodded. He spoke briskly now, eyeing the designs the [Tattooist] hopefully shoved in front of his face and waving them away.

“Twenty gold pieces to deliver a small object to my person alone in a port city north of here. The danger to you will be minimal, although you will have to be swift and precise. There may be pursuers, but if you are caught—which you will not be because you are a significant portion of my plan—you will likely only be held for a few hours. At most, roughed up.”

Luan didn’t know if he liked that. But—twenty gold pieces? He heard the Lizardwoman gulp and agreed. That was a good job. Especially if the danger wasn’t that great. Still—Luan eyed Venaz and folded his arms.

“No. Forty.”

“Forty? For a small delivery? You overestimate your worth.”

Venaz’s eyebrows shot up. Luan shook his head.

“Forty gold pieces. You researched me, and you admitted that I am an important part of your plans. You need a fast City Runner on the water who is not a Courier. I’m your best option, and you know it.”

The Minotaur glowered. He muttered to himself. Luan thought he caught ‘must be what the Professor’s always telling me about’ before he looked up abruptly and nodded.

“Fine. Forty.”

Luan thought for a second and then shook his head.

“It’s sixty gold pieces now.”

“What?”

“The price went up.”

“In two seconds?”

“I just remembered that you insulted me and bothered me when I asked to be left alone. So, sixty gold pieces, friend. Can you pay that much?”

“Yes. Sixty, damn it, but not a copper piece higher.”

Venaz growled in disgust and gave Luan something almost approaching a look of admiration. He sighed.

“I’ll pay you ten pieces up front, fifty on delivery. Do we have a deal?”

He held out a hand. Luan hesitated.

“One last thing. Promise me no one will be hurt by what you’re doing? No one dies? I’m not bringing something illegal or that harms someone else?”

If the Minotaur couldn’t make that promise, Luan would do it anyways. But Venaz just grinned.

“No one dies. As for harm—they’ll be bruised, maybe a few broken bones at most. But this is no war. Runners have their codes about interfering in battle, after all.”

That was enough. More than enough for sixty gold pieces. Luan had risked his neck for less. He held out his hand gingerly. Venaz gave Luan a crushing handshake and then nodded to the side. The [Tattooist] stretched her arms, sitting by the closed door as Venaz and Luan spoke in low voices. Luan listened, no longer annoyed, but a Runner listening to a well-paying client.

Outside, the city of Cinfal hustled and bustled and presumably got on with their lives. Inside the parlor, though, the Lizardwoman [Tattooist] debated over what inking she’d give the Minotaur, trying not to listen as he spoke to Luan. Venaz’s voice was quiet, his eyes alight as he showed Luan a map, then another map, and then explained why three weeks was so important and where Luan fit in.

“That you don’t know my name means you don’t get what’s happening. Well, in three weeks, an annual event occurs. Wait—no, biennial. No—hold on, the Professor sometimes doesn’t hold it at all. But it is a significant event, and I will be participating in it, as will my class. And many of those in the former classes, which is why I intend to win. You see, once every…few years, the Professor, whom you know as the Titan of Baleros, has a little game…”

Luan jerked at the name. Venaz grinned, his eyes alight. And Luan realized he’d quite forgotten to ask why Venaz needed someone with the skills of a Courier. Or exactly who would be chasing him. But it was too late to back out now. And on Luan’s wrist were etched the two names. So long as he had that, he could do anything.



——



So it was that in Cinfal, the best laid plans of men and Minotaurs were begun. But in a city much further inland, a creature far smaller than a man or Minotaur was hard at work. He was, in fact, about the same size as a mouse. But Niers Astoragon was considerably more dangerous than a mouse, and after a certain encounter with some rats, he’d begun hunting the damn things at night. After all, the greatest [Strategist] in all of Baleros had to find enjoyment somewhere, didn’t he?

He wasn’t quite enjoying himself now. Not that he was miserable, but Niers was more in a state of mind that could be described as busy concentration rather than actual fun. Luan would have understood; there was a joy to doing something you could do, but other times it was just the work of it that kept you going. Work, and pride in your work.

Not that Niers was rowing a boat. Rather, he was poring over a piece of paper, walking down and reading the neatly-written words row by row. It was slightly tedious, and Niers debated hopping back onto his reading seat so he could read them from above. But he liked to move, and sitting meant he’d have to ask someone else to bring the next paper over, which was a waste of time.

“Hah!”

That was all the Fraerling said as he reached the end of the report. He stamped on the carefully written signature and the wax seal below it and then kicked the piece of paper off the desk. A hand caught it as the paper dropped to the ground. Peclir Im, the [Chamberlain] of the Forgotten Wing company and the man responsible for keeping a good portion of the citadel that was Niers’ academy and home running, picked up the paper and put it in another pile as Niers strode past him for another report.

“That idiot Balegilt wants two more [Mages]? Write a reply and tell him he can have his [Mages] when he learns not to let [Snipers] pick them off! He’ll go without, and he can take his entire company to hell if he objects!”

Peclir Im nodded.

“You wish me to write that verbatim, sir? Or in spirit?”

Niers paused.

“In spirit, I suppose. Balegilt’s Marsh Troll company is useful. But damn them if they’re not careless. Give him a warning, Peclir. If he keeps losing our people, we will sever our ties with him.”

“I shall make a proper note.”

Peclir did just that, jotting Niers’ reply down on a piece of parchment he held. The Titan scowled.

“Where’s the next report?”

“Here, sir. And I repeat, if you wish, we could hire a Fraerling to copy all this down. It would save you the necessity of calling on myself—”

“I don’t need a [Scribe] reading all this confidential information, Peclir. Regular reports are fine by me.”

“As you wish. This is a detail by our 14th Division.”

“Where did we put—ah, right. Holding action. And they’re facing…”

Niers read the brief and much less eloquent message by one of his field commanders. He grimaced.

“Skirmishes with Centaurs. Oh, how wonderful. It must be a local clan. Not a company; they’re too scattered. We must have angered the entire area somehow. Send in our [Diplomats]. And make sure they’re Centaurs too. The nuance will be lost on someone not of that species. In the meantime, the 14th is to avoid killing—if possible. Next?”

Peclir checked his notes.

“There are two battles taking place at…Selx’s Ravine and the Olkem Grasslands. I have the coordinates.”

“Show me. Nothing too large, I hope?”

“You would have been notified, sir. These are allied companies—”

“We still want to win, though. Let’s see what their odds are. Ah. This would be that damned mine we’ve been fighting over. If we take it, I’m sending some high-level [Miners] to get what we can and then abandon the place. And the other…? Oh.”

Niers Astoragon looked down at the magical map as Peclir indicated the two battlegrounds. He grimaced, told Peclir to message one of the two commanders embroiled in the battles to retreat if things went south, and got back to work. Peclir hurried over to the door to issue a few instructions to a waiting attendant helper, who in turn hurried off to make the necessary [Message] spells. By the time he got back, Niers was kicking his way across the desk.

“Casualty reports. Income reports. Where are my level reports?”

“Here, sir.”

Peclir handed Niers a list of every person of note who’d leveled in Niers’ company this week. That included class changes and gained Skills. The [Strategist] ran his eye down the list, grunting as he saw nothing too extraordinary.

“Alright. We’re moving past supply counts for now, Peclir. We’ve figured out what was draining our ration of mana potions, and no one’s complained. And I’m sick of doing numbers. I’ll make the new students do it as an exercise in logistics. Onto incomes. Another wonder. Where’s the abacus? Not yours. I meant mine.”

The Fraerling was managing his company. Or rather, to put it another way, overseeing the affairs of the Forgotten Wing Company, one of the Four Great Companies of Baleros and arguably one of the powers of the world. And he was doing it while kicking over empty ink pots, kicking over full ink pots and swearing, hunting for a cheese crumb as a snack, and generally mucking about.

In ink.

It wasn’t that Niers wasn’t taking this seriously. But the reports and questions on Niers’ desk were things he didn’t strictly need to take care of himself. He had a system in place, and if he’d let it work, nothing would have reached his attention. That was the point of a good chain of command. Niers had trained his subordinates to take care of all the things he was poring over.

But someone had to be at the top, and since Foliana was there, it fell to Niers. He didn’t obsess over every detail all the time, but he made it a point to do a deep inspection of all his company’s affairs at least once a week. And that was on top of giving orders to the officers, various company commanders, and so on for large-scale movements, vacations, and so on.

“Enough, Peclir. We’re good on income reports.”

At last, Niers sighed and sat back. The various holdings of the Forgotten Wing company, from direct control to payments from protected cities, to their income in trade and goods bought and sold and any number of sources were finally looked over. Peclir knuckled his back and straightened.

“Anything else, sir?”

“Give me…five minutes. Or I’ll drown myself in that ink pot.”

“I’ll procure a fresh one in that eventuality.”

Peclir gave Niers a moment. The Fraerling grinned and then sighed. A thousand things his company was doing, and a thousand little mistakes that could lead to big ones if no one was watching.

Accumulating too many gemstones and selling them in bulk would crash a market. Bunching up too many sheep in one place meant they could all catch a disease. Taking away a city’s main source of income meant it grew poorer and unrest started. Not to mention directing forces, conducting diplomacy with the thousands of companies in Baleros, fighting monsters, worrying about that damned Yellow Rivers disease in the brothels…

There was always something to do if you looked for it. That was the curse of command. The more you could do, the less time you had to do it. How could you ever quit? The answer was that you couldn’t. Not if you yourself were irreplaceable.

“This is the problem with becoming one of the Four Great companies in one lifetime. Not enough experience and not enough high-level subordinates to fall back on. Right, Foliana? Foliana?”

Niers looked up. No one replied, so the Squirrel Beastkin wasn’t in the room. He shrugged and went on talking.

“If one of us dies, it falls apart. Which would please the others no end. But if we keep doing well, we die anyways of old age. Or we slow down and die. The point is, we need fresh blood. Our next generation has to be as good as we are, or better, or we should scrap the company now rather than watch it fall apart and come back to bite us. And we’ve got a few good candidates, but not enough. So what do we do? Find loyal personnel abroad or hope we gain more good recruits? Because if we need it—”

“I thought the company was doing quite well as it was, sir.”

Peclir appeared in the doorway, fresh inkpot in hand. Niers sat up. Peclir set the pot down next to him. The tiny [Strategist] grinned up at the Human.

“You’d think so, Peclir. But that only accounts for when I am here. When I’m here, the company functions well. But if I go for a while…”

“Ah. You require a fallback for your vacation.”

Peclir raised an eyebrow. He had to be aware of Niers’ plans. You couldn’t hide much from a [Chamberlain]. You had to trust them. Even so, Niers hesitated.

“Yes. I’m hoping to get some system in place. More so than we already have in case of emergencies, that is. But I won’t leave until I’m sure I can trust this company to more than that tree rat.”

“Our glorious leader?”

“Who? Foliana, yes. She needs subordinates she can order about in my absence besides you. Where is she, by the way?”

Normally, Foliana would be here, listening to Niers. Although she was as helpful as a wet sponge. The head of the Forgotten Wing company was, in fact, not good at any facet of managing it. But she did stick about, if only to needle Niers. The Fraerling looked inquiringly at Peclir. The man pointed above.

“I believe she’s currently eating oysters in her room, sir.”

“And throwing up, no doubt. She hates oysters.”

Niers groaned. He was going to have to endure Foliana eating every variety of oyster under the sun for the next few days or even weeks.

“Who’s the target this time?”

“She did not say, sir. And I did not ask.”

“Fair enough.”

Not even Peclir would be that keen to ask Foliana who she was targeting. But he had to be guessing. The oysters were a big clue. As was Foliana’s diet in general, that was.

Muffins, spaghetti. Oysters today. As soon as Foliana completed her job, it would be something else. Fruits, maybe. Dates. Or some other dish, foul or fair.

It wasn’t a secret. When Three-Color Stalker ate your food of choice, she was aiming for you. Some said it was a way to get inside your head. Freak you out that she was coming. Others claimed it was so that the target would be lulled by a familiar smell. A few idiot [Mages] in Wistram thought it was so Foliana could study her victims through some kind of food-psychology.

“Why does Lady Foliana eat the food of her victims, Lord Astoragon?”

Today was the day Peclir finally asked the question. Niers sat up and grinned. It had to have eaten away at the man, but he’d been working here for years without so much as asking it. Now that was self-control. And he was only too happy to answer. Again, it wasn’t a secret if you were in the know.

“Not to camouflage herself or anything stupid like that, Peclir. The reason is simple: she’s showing off. Warning her target.”

“Ah. To disturb them?”

“Hardly.”

Peclir’s eyebrows shot up. Niers chuckled to himself. That was what people didn’t get.

“It’s just to warn them. Nothing else. No advantage in it—and a lot of disadvantage if it’s something Foliana hates. But she does it because it’s her thing. Everyone needs a calling card. What’s the point of doing something if it isn’t with style?”

“That’s the entire reason?”

“Yup.”

The [Chamberlain] closed his eyes for a moment.

“Another grand mystery, solved. Well, thank you, sir. I believe I’ll lie down and weep for the grandiose mysteries and designs of the powerful after we’re done here.”

“You do that.”

Niers laughed. Peclir didn’t get it. But when you were that high-level, your reputation meant as much as actual efficiency. When Foliana ate oysters, anyone within a thousand miles who loved the dish started watching the shadows. It meant that someone who loved oysters was her next target. How much better was that reaction than being the silent, unpredictable killer?

“I’m feeling better now, Peclir.”

“I am pleased my disappointment fuels you, Lord Astoragon.”

Niers threw a tiny bit of chalk at Peclir. It bounced off a button on his lapel and was promptly lost forever. The [Strategist] looked at his papers and sighed.

“Enough reports. Let’s do the daily tasks. Meetings, I think. Have I got any?”

He usually did. Niers’ day was filled from start to finish with things he could be doing, but didn’t. For whatever reason, he’d put them off, delay, forget entirely—and spring on things that really mattered. He liked unpredictability, at least from his side. After all, the Titan of Baleros had enemies, and he didn’t like being caught out.

But today at least, this year, had been peaceful. Only a few battles, all low-scale. Not every year in Baleros was huge bloody wars, at least for a Great Company. In fact, the Four Great Companies had found that peace was more profitable for them, at least in the long run. They could earn money off of their holdings and trade, and as a result, it was their allied companies, smaller divisions, and so on that usually saw fighting.

Baleros was bloody, but if two or more Great Companies fought, the jungles would turn red with blood. And that wasn’t what anyone wanted. For the moment, at least.

So Niers’ day-to-day life looked like this: check the health of his company. Make big decisions like rising to provocation, seizing resources, etc. Meet with those too important to ignore. Annoy Foliana. Eat. Sleep. Be annoyed by Foliana.

Teach his students. If every Great Company had their specialty, like the Iron Vanguard’s emphasis on outfitting their soldiers and constructing military bastions, the Forgotten Wing company’s trait was its base of officers. It trained students from around the world into military geniuses.

Not just [Strategists], but [Lieutenants] who got hands-on experience, [Commanders] who would see action in the jungles, even [Generals]. But it was known for [Strategists]. And those who were able to join Niers’ coveted classes, much less the rare group of elite students, were sure to become forces that would influence the world in the decades to come.

That was what Niers spent most of his time on in days of peace. In war too; there was nothing more instructive than letting a [Strategist] command a battalion of [Soldiers] if they were ready for the job. And if they weren’t? Well, that was why the Titan’s nickname was also the Professor among his students. He liked to think he could bring out their best quality, and his lessons were often…inventive as a result.

“How are the students doing, by the way, Peclir?”

The [Chamberlain] sighed at the innocent tone in Niers’ voice.

“Your core students?”

“Those? No, I gave them the weekend off. They’re preparing, no doubt. Getting up to no good. Give me a report on all their movements later. I want to see how they’re planning for this—if they even know what’s coming at all. Wil has some idea, but I think the others haven’t read the signs. I know Venaz hasn’t. He thinks this will be a little event.”

“I shall light a candle for his survival later. And the report. But your new students are currently in their beds. Most of them. The children of nobility sent from Terandria were particularly distressed. After being made to survive for three nights in the jungle with no supplies. I believe their parents have sent several angry [Messages], sir.”

“I’ll read them in my bath with a glass of wine.”

Niers chuckled to himself, in a good mood. He glanced at Peclir.

“Anything else? Wait, I asked about meetings.”

“Ah. Right. I was waiting upon a list…here we are.”

A door above Peclir’s head opened. A little Fraerling popped out using the Fraerling walkways built into the citadel.

“Sorry, Master Im! Apologies, Lord Astoragon. There was a rat in the tunnels.”

“Another one? I thought I got rid of all the nests!”

Niers sat up, alarmed. Rats were a danger to Fraerlings. But the [Messenger] only grimaced.

“You did, sir. This one was quite dead. It wasn’t cleared, though. I had a [Servant] remove it.”

“Ah. Oops.”

Niers sat back and shrugged as Peclir gave him a long stare. The [Chamberlain] accepted the small bit of paper the Fraerling carried and adjusted his spectacles to read the tiny handwriting.

“Hm. Ah, yes, there are a number of people wishing to see you, Lord Astoragon. As always.”

“What’s new? Anyone of note?”

Niers sighed. People always wanted something of you if you had something to give. And the Titan of Baleros? He had money to spend, which meant there were [Merchants] offering artifacts, [Mages] trying to get him to fund their research, adventuring teams hoping for some fame or a tipoff from him, [Cooks] trying to get him to eat their cooking—one time a [Chef] had even baked a life-sized replica of Niers. Now hadn’t that been fun to use as a prank on his students?

But generally all they wanted didn’t really help Niers, so he’d made it known that you could come and petition the Titan for an audience—but you weren’t likely to get it. And still, they came. There was actually a quite profitable business in the city for people waiting to see him for months or even years. Mostly in vain.

“Hm. Well, here is the list, sir. I don’t see anyone too notable, but then again, I would underscore the Naga near the bottom.”

Peclir handed the sheet to Niers. The Titan grunted and ran his eye down the list. The same old suspects. But he paused at the Naga.

“Xalandrass. War merchant. I don’t know the name. Small fry?”

“Fairly. His fortunes turned south when he was caught up in that incident by the, ah…Razorshard Armor company?”

“Ah, I remember. Those two idiots broke the rules of engagement. Well, it seems Xalandrass survived. Why’s he here and why do I care?”

“I couldn’t answer the first part, but I understand that he tried to bribe his way to the front of the queue.”

“How much?”

“Two hundred gold pieces. As much as he could afford, sir.”

Niers’ eyebrows rose. Bribes weren’t uncommon, and they were wasted effort since Niers just gave it back to the briber, but two hundred gold pieces wasn’t small. And if Xalandrass was in trouble, it made it more interesting still.

“So he thinks he has something I want, does he? Very well. Send him in. I’ll meet him in the sitting room with the velvet curtains. You know.”

“I will send him there at once, sir. Refreshments?”

“He may have whatever he wishes.”

Niers hopped off the desk and strode onto Peclir’s waiting hand. The man spared Niers the effort of climbing all the way to the Fraerling walkways and departed via the door. Niers took the considerably quicker tunnels running through the citadel. Along the way, he spotted where the dead rat had been.

“Ah. Oops. I remember that one. Caught it running away. Must’ve slipped my mind. Oh well.”

Niers strode up the sloping walkway, navigating by memory to the waiting room. Along the way, he met a few other Fraerlings. They were employed by his company—a rare thing. Even in Niers’ company, Fraerlings were a rare sight. They wanted to stand aside, but the Titan waved them onwards.

“Keep moving, for dead gods’ sake! It’s not as if this tunnel isn’t big enough for all of us. Let the Tallfolk bump into each other.”

That made them laugh. Niers saw a new hire, the [Messenger] who’d done the delivery, point at his back. They did that, the first few months they were here. After all, there were legends of Drakes, kings and heroes of Lizardfolk, giants among the Dullahans, and so forth. Even the Goblins had kings, wretched though they were. But the Fraerlings only had one hero.

Sometimes it weighed on Niers. Sometimes he wanted to go away. To Liscor, in this case. But he couldn’t. Not just yet. So Niers sighed, kept his back straight, and prepared his entrance.



——



Xalandrass the Naga had seen better days. Worse days too, like fearing for his life while two companies battled feet from his wagon’s door. But better days, still. He’d spent a lot of his coin, or rather, lost it escaping from the battlefield. And the days since then hadn’t exactly refilled his coffers.

Still, the Naga was, if nothing else, vain. He’d brought out his best silk vest, and his hair was combed. He wore jewelry on his arms, decorative bangles, but nothing too ostentatious. His serpentine head was gently powdered, and he had oiled his scales. His long, serpentine lower half shone as he slowly entered the waiting room the [Servant] had pointed him towards.

He was afraid. Despite being a Naga, one of the forms a Lizardfolk could turn into if they were truly exceptional, Xalandrass was acutely aware of whom he was meeting. He had treated with company commanders with a mixture of arrogance and deference, but this was someone else.

“Ah. Hello?”

Xalandrass looked around as he entered. He slithered into the room slowly, watching the ground. A Naga was a humanoid upper half and a serpentine lower body. Their tails were powerful, and they were similar to Centaurs in that they resembled a cross of species. Xalandrass paused, afraid of running over something.

He knew the Titan’s true stature. In that, he wasn’t a fool. He was, slightly, in assuming that Niers would be anywhere near the ground. Xalandrass glanced over his shoulder at Peclir Im, whom he was taller than by quite a bit.

“Lord Astoragon…”

“He may be along shortly. I cannot say when he will arrive. Your patience, please. If you have any wishes for refreshment, simply ring the bell.”

“Oh, no. I am quite fine. Quite—quite fine.”

Xalandrass coughed and reassured the [Chamberlain]. Of course the Titan wasn’t here yet. He was incredibly busy. Xalandrass was just lucky to have gotten a meeting this soon. He settled back on the open carpet, breathing a sigh of relief as Peclir Im clapped his hands and a gentle [Light] spell filled the room.

Xalandrass looked around, noting that this was a room built to accommodate Naga or Centaurs. Open, without more than a single table. And on it…was a little armchair? Oh! Just the size for a Fraerling. And a fat candle, in case the [Light] spell ran out. Of course.

Xalandrass chuckled. And in that moment, as he relaxed, preparing to wait as long as it took, he was at his most unguarded. So that was obviously the exact time when Niers made his entrance. He stepped from behind the fat candle he’d specifically had placed in every room for such moments and turned.

“You—wished to see me?”

The Naga’s eyes locked on Niers. He recoiled with a shout of horror that filled the room. Niers smiled as Xalandrass reared back instinctively and then fell over himself with apologies. He flourished, giving the Naga a small bow.

“Niers Astoragon, at your service. I am pleased to meet you, Xalandrass the Naga. Peclir, thank you for bringing him here. I will see him now.”

Peclir rolled his eyes as he shut the door. Niers winked at him and then turned his attention to Xalandrass. The Naga was trying to collect himself—and failing.

“My apologies for the little surprise. How may I help you? I was told you had a matter of importance, and of course I’m eager to hear any information…of merit.”

Niers stepped around the candle in front of his armchair. This too was a tactic. Xalandrass was trying to calm down, and now Niers had cut to the heart of a subject. The Fraerling watched him carefully.

A smart negotiator might calm down and take a few breaths. Someone with ice for blood might even address Niers’ rude introduction. But Xalandrass, [Merchant] though he may be, wasn’t that good. He rushed over himself, tripping over his words in his haste to address Niers. As if he was afraid he’d be tossed out for not instantly answering the question. Well, in another company. But not here.

“Lord Astoragon. I’m so delighted—forgive me, I hardly noticed—er, I did come here with vital information! To the best of my ability. I was…you are no doubt aware I was involved in that unpleasantness between the Roving Arrow company and the Razorshard Armor company? Well, aside from the tragedy that unfolded, I made a number of significant encounters at that time.”

“Indeed?”

Niers put a lot of emotion into that one word. Impatience, a hint of intrigue…Xalandrass nodded as fast as he could.

“Indeed—yes! A number of personages took to the field. I don’t refer to the companies. But rather—that was the battlefield on which a unique individual appeared. I don’t know that you’ve heard, but the Last Light of Baleros—a [Doctor] who cures the wounded—took part in that battlefield. And I observed her work. Truly splendid. And I came here to…to tell you…”

He was mopping at his brow with a handkerchief. Niers stared at him. Suddenly disappointed, he sat down in his tiny armchair. If all Xalandrass wanted to tell him were more rumors about this Last Light, then Niers would pass. Baleros was full of legends, heroes who rose and fell in the course of a moon’s cycle.

“I’ve heard of this Last Light. But an individual, even a [Doctor] isn’t a unique occurrence on the battlefield, Merchant Xalandrass. I trust she isn’t the topic of your visit?”

The Naga gulped.

“Not entirely, Lord Astoragon. But she is related! I did, in fact, meet her. And several others whom I can only describe as—they were all part of—but perhaps I should show you this. It speaks far better than I can.”

He was fumbling with something at his side. A bag of holding. Niers eyed the odd object that Xalandrass pulled out. The Naga tried to flourish it and then panicked as he realized the only place to set it was on the table where Niers was sitting. He offered it up with two hands, slithering closer to let Niers see.

“What is that?”

Niers frowned. Of all the things he’d expected Xalandrass to pull out, this wasn’t it. He stared down at some kind of…it was a compact tube, that was for certain. And there was…glass on one end? Glass and something inside of it. But the rest was made of a colorful steel—no, it wasn’t steel. But it wasn’t wood either. Or any other substance Niers could name.

“This, Lord Astoragon, is a device I obtained on that battlefield. Not from the companies, but from some strange individuals. Humans. I believe it is known as a…flashlight. If you will allow me to activate it?”

The name was instantly familiar to Niers. You didn’t need to be a genius to know what it did. But he was intrigued. So he clapped his hands, and the lights in the room went out. In the darkness, lit only by a pair of windows covered by velvet drapes, he saw Xalandrass fumble with the device.

Belatedly, Niers wondered if this was an assassination attempt. Well, he had on his gear, and Xalandrass would have been screened. So if it was, it was original. But Niers didn’t sense a spell come at him. Instead, he heard a click—

And a beam of light shot from the end of the flashlight. It was bright. Almost painfully so. And as Xalandrass swept it up and down the room, Niers saw the glow came from the thing inside the flashlight. It was being magnified outwards. Strange. Xalandrass swept it across the room, flashing it at Niers once and then apologizing hurriedly. Then the Fraerling clapped his hands and the lights returned.

The Naga swept backwards. He gestured to the flashlight proudly.

“You see?”

“I saw a light. A cute artifact, but hardly better than a mage’s lantern. And too bright to do more than give away your position. Unless you can control the spell?”

Niers replied drily. Xalandrass wavered, and then he slapped his forehead.

“Oh! Of course! I neglected to mention—Lord Astoragon! This isn’t a mage’s artifact. This device isn’t magical. Not at all!”

He raised the flashlight. And now Niers’ eyes locked on it. He frowned.

“Explain. And bring it closer. You may place it here, please.”

He gestured to the table. Xalandrass did so, talking hurriedly.

“No magic at all. Feel free to examine it, Lord Astoragon. It’s got components inside—you can see the metal and glass past the…”

“Odd surface. Too smooth, but it’s definitely not metal. What’s it made of?”

Niers interrupted Xalandrass, running a hand along the strange body of the flashlight. He glanced up sharply and saw the Naga hesitate.

“I’m told it’s called ‘plastic’, Lord Astoragon.”

“But you don’t know. And it’s completely non-magical. Not even a rune or mana stone inside?”

“I had a [Mage] friend of mine test it. She swears there’s no magic at all.”

Now that was strange. Niers studied the device. There was no fire to it, even when he pressed the button and it lit up. Something was glowing, but—Niers went blind for a second as he stared at the glowing filament of…whatever that was inside it. That wasn’t magic. No, that was some kind of metal. Wasn’t it?

He glanced up and saw Xalandrass was watching him hopefully. Niers stepped back, hit the button on the flashlight, and decided to sit. He blinked spots out of his eyes.

“Well, Xalandrass, congratulations are in order. You’ve got my full attention.”

The Naga puffed up a little. Niers held up a hand.

“Don’t waste it. Without exaggeration, tell me. What is this device? How did you get it?”

“Ah, well, I would love to embellish the tale, but the answer is simple. I acquired it in the line of my business. A few mercenaries from a suppression company hired for the battlefield came over and tried to barter for some alcohol. They offered this in trade, and I took it.”

“For alcohol?”

Niers’ eyebrows shot way up. Even a weak artifact was worth far more than that. Xalandrass smiled.

“They were desperate. And I offered them quite a bit to drink for these trinkets. And others.”

I’ll bet you did. Niers had a low opinion of war merchants, who sold to companies when they were at their most desperate. They preyed on the short-of-luck. But he didn’t say any of that out loud.

“So, you made a good business deal from some soldiers desperate for fun. Who didn’t realize what they were carrying?”

Xalandrass pondered that.

“Let’s say that their good sense was in shorter supply, Lord Astoragon. There were others whom I made better offers to who did not relinquish their…objects. All part of the same company I might add. All Human. All new to warfare.”

“Ah.”

Niers was getting an image. A group of desperate travellers who’d bartered this away. Poor enough to work in a suppression company. But rich enough for…? And they didn’t know the worth of this.

“Tell me more. Or rather, show me.”

“The flashlight is a good start. But I obtained a handful of these during the battle. Taken from the…deceased. I traded for it with some Dullahan soldiers. To them, it was only a flash of light and sounds, but I discovered they could be [Repaired]. Sir, please look.”

If the flashlight had been calculated to grab Niers’ attention, the second thing that Xalandrass showed Niers was intended to seal the deal. Because Niers had no idea what it was. It was a rectangle. Some object made of the same foreign substance as the flashlight, but the front was smooth as glass. And it had a…button on it. And when Xalandrass pressed it hard and it came to life…

“What is that symbol? An apple?”

“Keep watching, Lord Astoragon. But—steel your eyes. There are a number of bright shapes.”

“Sound?”

“And look. If I touch this…”

The screen came to life. Xalandrass’ fingers delicately tapped one of the square beacons of light, and it expanded. Niers stared as something appeared. He saw words. Nonsensical. Xalandrass tapped one of the words, and it lit up. Everything on the thing in front of him changed. And then a face appeared. Niers jerked back, but the face was still, like a [Mage]’s illustration. And then there was music.

At least, Niers thought it was music. It sounded nothing like anything he’d heard. He stared at the screen, at the moving thing at the top, at Xalandrass’ face, and then held up a hand. The Naga instantly hit a strange pair of vertical bars near the bottom and the music stopped.

“Take it back, please.”

Niers settled back in his chair as Xalandrass retreated, looking pleased. The Titan realized he was showing his curiosity and bewilderment and cursed internally. He looked at Xalandrass and decided to play the Naga’s game.

“Alright. I am mystified. Xalandrass, tell me what it is.”

“They called it an ‘iPhone’, Lord Astoragon.”

The Naga pronounced the word clumsily. Niers stared at the device. And then the flashlight. His mind offered him several explanations. But he went with his gut.

“No magic.”

“None whatsoever.”

“And you got that off of the dead, did you?”

“They would not part with it until…several of their members were caught trying to desert.”

“Ah. By which company?”

“Dullahans.”

That meant beheading. Niers winced.

“And those soldiers gave these things to you for a song and a dance? One would assume they’d have realized the importance, given them to their commanders.”

“As I said, these devices were damaged when I obtained them. One made light, the other…nothing. But I had my [Mage] friend [Repair] them and…”

Xalandrass gestured. Niers thought for a second. The Naga was clearly excited. He knew something of the worth of what he held. The problem was, Niers wasn’t sure he did.

“You see, Lord Astoragon, this iPhone has many functions. One of them was playing that music. But the others—”

“Stop.”

Niers cut him off. The Naga paused, and Niers looked at him. He wanted to talk about the device, but Niers had only one question for him.

“The Humans you bought this from. The ones new to war. Where were they from? What continent?”

“Ah, well, they said—”

“Again. Stop. Don’t tell me what they said. You’ve reached a conclusion, Xalandrass. Tell me it. And then tell me why. I’m not here for a story. Where are they from? Answer me. Now.”

Niers didn’t sit up in his chair. He didn’t raise his voice. But he concentrated, and some of Xalandrass’ confidence faded.

“Tell me everything you saw, Xalandrass. Tell me in order, in a way that exaggerates nothing. You came here because you saw an opportunity. This is your chance. Use it wisely.”

The Naga wavered. He looked at Niers, then hit a button. The iPhone went dark. The Naga drew himself up and then relaxed, his tail coiling inwards upon itself. Perhaps there was some wisdom in him, because when he spoke, it was as Niers had asked.

“I met them in one company. Gravetender’s Fist. The Last Light had been on the battlefield, tending to the wounded. She was an anomaly, but as you say, there are those who are strange. But the children in the company—they were odd. They wore unique clothing and spoke with accents not familiar to me. They knew each other—or rather, they all came from the same place. But I heard numerous names from their lips. All foreign. This is what I saw. This is what they did.”

Niers listened as the Naga told his story of meeting the Gravetender’s Fist company. Of witnessing their arguments, splintering, overhearing odd snippets of conversation. And then—of seeing Ken and Daly rescuing a wounded soldier. Of Geneva, the Last Light, reattaching a Dullahan [Juggernaut]’s arm. Of a flag. Of all that had passed before and after and most importantly, the conversations Xalandrass had had with the children on the road as they fled that battlefield.

He never said outright what he thought. But he didn’t have to. The strange names. Earth. Americans. Australia. And the things their devices could do, their references to Geneva’s skill as something commonplace. And what Xalandrass had overheard the children saying to each other.

How did we get here? Magic exists? Really? You hear about Nagas in stories. Want to go home. What about the others?

A thousand clues that pointed one way. It was such an obvious conclusion that Niers would normally suspect a trick. But the device Xalandrass held said otherwise. He showed Niers more of what it could do. Niers stared at a screen full of characters even smaller than he was move about before vanishing and wondered if an [Illusionist] could do that well.

No magic. A [Doctor] with skills beyond any other [Doctor]. Names and places never heard, never spoken aloud before. And Xalandrass saved the best for last.

“They formed a company after that. The United Nations. A symbol of their home, Lord Astoragon. Something they hoped would draw others to them. Unite them. Something only they would know.”

And Niers remembered the report he’d read. His mind turned to fire. It raced from conclusion to conclusion, igniting. Not just with what Xalandrass was hinting. At last, part of a bigger picture unraveled in his head. He had a moment he’d felt a thousand times as a [Strategist], that of seeing the big picture. Of knowing.

Flashlight. Chess. The game of Go. A new game coming from an established Drake city. A girl waving a white flag. Wistram’s new concept of scrying orbs and viewer mages.

One conclusion. One that made sense. Niers found his breath coming quickly in his chest. The world turned itself upside down. Only, it wasn’t one world was it?

It was two.

At least two. At least two worlds. How else did you explain the flashlight? The iPhone? No other way. Maybe if Niers weren’t in his position—but he had all the resources and experience of a head of the Great Companies, and he had never heard of a material like the one the two devices were made of. Xalandrass was a war merchant. He had seen any number of artifacts. But what was most telling was the way it fit with the other things he’d picked up on. Mysteries unsolved. It could solve everything. Chess, the dungeon Niers still thought about—

Her.

And Niers felt his heart racing. He felt his mind bursting with thoughts, and he was filled with too much energy to contain. But he didn’t move. He sat in his chair as Xalandrass finished and held still. He didn’t tap his leg, he didn’t raise his hand. He didn’t give any signs as to the turmoil in his soul. He just tapped the armrest of his chair.

Xalandrass watched the Titan greedily, expectantly. He was prepared for Niers to shout after a moment, swear, or do anything in line with his colorful personality. But nothing happened. Not a twitch. Not so much as a smile or a movement of the eye. Niers’ finger kept tapping the cloth. The Naga watched, confidence wavering. He had to know the value of his information. But when he saw Niers’ face, his certainty fled.

“Er. Lord Astoragon. This is all happenstance. But the coincidences. I have a supposition—and I am sure one as intelligent as you has come to the same conclusion. If what I believe is correct, then—”

Niers slowly looked up. Xalandrass’ tongue tied itself in knots in his mouth.

“It is interesting, isn’t it? I’m not sure what to make of it. But I think you have something. What, I’m not sure about. But something.”

The Naga’s hearts beat hopefully. He waited as Niers pondered. Then, the Titan stood up. He walked once around the table, lost in thought. Then he stared at the Naga.

“I don’t know how adept a [Merchant] you are, Naga Xalandrass. So I will be blunt and spare us both embarrassment. Not a word of this to anyone else in passing. Not this, not the company, and not your good fortune either. I’m buying silence and all these trinkets—even the ones you’ve ferreted away and didn’t intend to sell me at any cost.”

A huge breath of air left Xalandrass’ lungs. He opened his mouth, and Niers cut him off again. Brusquely. Calmly. Was he thinking the same thing Xalandrass was? That the children were from somewhere else? Did he not fully believe? He was so…calm. Unnervingly so.

“Twelve thousand gold coins for your information. Let’s call it two thousand per…flashlight? Ten thousand for these other things. Per item. You won’t walk away with more than…six thousand gold coins right now. But the rest will come in business deals. Stay at your inn for two nights and then head north. You may run across some lucrative opportunities there.”

That was a lot of coin. Enough to make Xalandrass rich and prosperous again and then some. Rich, generous…but hardly worth the information if the Naga was right. True, it was objects and unverifiable claims—at least for now, but the Naga couldn’t conceal his disappointment. Then he had a thought.

“Ah, but what about the price of silence, Lord Astoragon?”

The Fraerling gave him a ghost of a smile. It was the right question. He looked at the Naga speculatively, then raised his voice.

“Peclir!”

The door opened. Xalandrass spun, but it was just a Dullahan [Servant]. Niers pointed.

“Find Peclir. Tell him to bring me the purple cloth-covered item.”

“At once.”

The door closed. Xalandrass waited, his scales sweaty, until the door opened. Niers was content to wait. When Peclir returned with an object in his hands on a small pillow, Niers nodded to it.

“Show Xalandrass. You want to know what I use to buy your silence? This.”

Peclir looked at Xalandrass. He approached slowly and twitched the cloth back. Both of the Naga’s hearts stopped beating at once. He stared at the object, reached out a hand, and snatched it back. Wordlessly, he looked at Niers. The Fraerling nodded.

“For yours and your [Mage] friend. It will make its way to you in time. In a bundle of wool, I think. Check each shipment that crosses your path. You have no objections?”

“None I—so generous! Of course I will keep the utmost silence and never, ever—”

Xalandrass tripped over his tongue. Then he had a horrible thought.

“Er, Lord Astoragon. It crosses my mind that perhaps, it could be that my information, my guesswork, might be in error. The possibility is small, but if that should be the case…”

He looked at Niers nervously. The Fraerling smiled again.

“If you’re wrong, we’ll renegotiate. But you’ve told me everything and you’re sure you’re correct, aren’t you?”

The Naga placed his hand over his secondary heart in his chest.

“I would swear on any truth spells you know. If—”

If he wasn’t using them already. Niers had a truth detection spell, but he rarely bothered to use it. Watching people was more important. Besides, you could fool [Detect Lie] spells. Not many people knew that. The Titan shook his head.

“Oh, I trust you Xalandrass.”

The Naga sighed with relief. Peclir took the cloth-covered object out of the room, and Niers watched the Naga’s eyes follow it. A fortune indeed. But Niers had many fortunes, [King]’s ransoms, and so on. And buying this secret was worth the price. There was a reason why people still came to him. Because if they had something he truly wanted, Niers would make them rich. He had let that be known too.

And this information. Oh! If it were true…Niers was still thinking. It was beyond just one company now. Xalandrass only saw the United Nations company. But Niers was looking at the world. What if this weren’t one incident? Surely not.

If this is so, then the world changes. If this is so—the flashlight. No magic? What’s inside? I need a [Blacksmith], a [Mage]—you can [Repair] it?

The King of Destruction’s reawakening. The death of Zel Shivertail? Tyrion Veltras’ actions—no, the [Emperor]? Trebuchets? Of course.

But deal with the Naga first. Niers cleared his throat to get Xalandrass’ attention.

“All your artifacts will go with Peclir. And your silence means another Great Company hears nothing of this. If you are aware of any rumors like this—”

“—Not spread by me! Of course not!”

“Oh, no. Not you. If you hear of any rumors, you will bring them to me. And remember, Xalandrass?”

Niers raised his voice. The Naga was over the moon with his success and the reward. He glanced back at Niers. The Titan smiled. And it was a grandfatherly smile.

“The reward matches the information given. Of the service rendered. As do the consequences of betraying that trust.”

That was all he said. That was all you needed to say. But for a second, Xalandrass looked at Niers and remembered who he was talking to. A six-inch Fraerling. A tiny person. Someone Xalandrass could squash with a single palm.

And the Titan of Baleros. And Xalandrass remembered all the legends and wondered if they were true.

That was enough. Niers left him with a mixture of jubilation and fear. The right mix, or so you hoped. It was a balance. But he gave instructions to Peclir Im about Xalandrass, very precise instructions, and then went to his study. Niers walked over to an inkwell, made sure the door was closed, and went crazy for half an hour.

Peclir Im entered the room after the shouting had died down. Or rather, when Niers had begun shouting for him and ringing the bell. Niers was standing in a mess of torn up paper and ink and other possessions. Peclir blinked; he had no idea what Xalandrass had said, but he’d rarely seen Niers this upset. Or was it jubilant? The Titan was something, and he was pacing back and forth, reading from a document and muttering under his breath.

“Oh, Venaz. You clever, stubborn idiot. This is just what I need. This, and nothing else. You’ll play your role. And I’ll be sure you do. Thank you for Minotaurs. Thank you for—Peclir?”

His head snapped towards the [Chamberlain]. Peclir hesitated. There was a wild look in Niers’ eyes. The same kind of look Peclir had seen a few times before. If the Titan of Baleros was a giant, it was a sleeping giant. A friendly, sleeping one most of the time. But someone had just woken him up.

“May I help you, Lord Astoragon? I have a message for you. An important one from the Iron Vanguard company. I thought that even under the circumstances—”

“Give it here.”

Niers snatched the paper from Peclir. It was written small, for a Fraerling. Even in his madness, he was still able to note small details. Peclir had already read the note.

“The Seer of Steel accedes to the Titan’s request. Tulm the Mithril will be present in three weeks’ time. Well, that makes it perfect.”

The [Strategist] had a crazy grin on his face. His mind raced. Yes, Venaz would probably do what Niers was thinking. Which gave him the perfect opening. Manipulate the minotaur. He could see Peclir watching him for some clue. But he couldn’t know. Hell, Foliana would have to be told in their secret room, spelled against every single eavesdropping measure in the world. If he was right—

Where was that damn Magnolia Reinhart’s letter? And—damn, he’d need to check every report on suspicious activities. He’d written it all down somewhere. But first—

Niers looked around. His desk—or rather, the table where he slept and worked—was just a normal table. Cluttered—less so after his rampage. But there was something by his tent.

A picture. A [Mage]’s illustration, copied in perfect detail. It had been taken from a battlefield. From another person’s eyes, at range. Still, Niers had requested his [Diviner] to enhance the image. It was still faint. Blurry.

But on that hill, a girl stood. In the mud, her clothes plain. She held a flag of white. And her back was turned. Niers stared at it. He spoke softly. Start with her. At last…

He had to know.

“I need to hire someone. Peclir?”

“Yes, Lord Astoragon? You wish me to make a call?”

“Not to anyone in Baleros. Send a [Message] spell. Encrypted. Look up the cipher. But I need to make a call. To…the best.”

Peclir waited. Then he coughed.

“The best whom, sir?”

“I worked with some experts in First Landing before. The best of the best.”

The [Chamberlain] waited. Niers stared at the picture. Then he looked up. The die was cast.

“First Landing. Tell the Brothers of Serendipitous Meetings that I have a proposition for them. And send them some of our finest wine via our contact there. I’ll be awaiting their communication with greatest pleasure. Or something like that. And Peclir? They have access to my personal [Diviner]. Day or night. I want to speak with them immediately.”

“I shall send the [Message] spell at once.”

Peclir bowed and left the room. Niers stood alone, staring at the picture. Then he took a deep breath. He looked around, at the destroyed desk, at the papers, at the report of Venaz’s not-so-covert actions…if you knew what to look for, and then at another report.

“The United Nations.”

Niers stared at the name. And then at the flashlight Peclir had left on his desk. He walked over to it. Touched the material that did not come from this world. And then he smiled.

“After years of searching, of wondering. At last. The world changes. Let there be light.”

He hit the button. And there was.





6.08


Here came a story about a bee. She woke with the dawn. Bees do that. Even Ashfire Bees. Especially in the spring. After all, they lived and died by the changing green, the bounty of nature. In the mornings, bees would be flitting from flower to flower, gathering nectar and pollen, the lifeblood of a Hive.

Female bees, that was. Drones, the male portion of the hives, were lazy creatures who neither gathered nor produced honey. They ate honey, but their main purpose was to mate with the queen. They had neither stingers nor, in any real sense, agency. They existed to mate, or if need be, try and defend the hive or regulate the temperature. But they weren’t more than that. When they mated, they died.

This Ashfire Bee was female. Which was important. She was a worker bee, or at least, not a queen. Also very important. Queens were unique to a bee hive. The entity which the entire hive revolved around. This bee was not a queen, for all that she had eaten enough royal jelly. Even though the potential was there, she was virginal; she had not mated with a drone. And she had no hive. What would you call a bee like that?

The bee had no words. And she had no thoughts deep enough to speculate. So she was a worker. But she was female, and that was enough. For didn’t all workers have in them a shred of what could be queen?

The bee did not think such large thoughts as she woke up, though. In fact, she thought very little. She was, after all, a bee. And what did bees think of, really?

Very little. A bee wasn’t like a Human or a Drake or even a more intelligent creature like a monkey or dolphin. Bees were simple insects who lived by instinct. So this bee, who woke up in a little basket of wood that was lined with cotton, crawled out and flexed her wings. Then she took off, because she had sensed movement.

After all, if a bee loved anything, surely it loved to fly. That was one of the reasons for which it was made. Up, the bee flew, chasing after the thing that was racing about.

Another fact. Bees had a different sense of color than many bipedal races. Unlike Humans, they saw no red. They could see orange and yellow to some degree, but their senses shifted into different spectrums as well. They could see ultraviolet, a color only abstractly known to most Humans as a concept. In this world, only a few hundred Humans would even know the idea. And Selphids and Antinium of course. But they had a different word for it.

The creature that raced about was white. White, and just a bit ultraviolet. Her fur shone in Apista’s vision. And so the bee flew after her, zigging and zagging to match the energetic creature. Not in malice; Apista’s long, reddish-orange stinger on her backside wasn’t extended. In fact, if anything, she thought of this racing creature as…what?

Bees had no idea of ‘friend’. No concept of family. They knew of hives, and so that was this bee’s closest approximation. This thing was of her hive. But even bees could see the obvious. The white fluffy thing wasn’t a bee. It was closer to a bear cub, if a small one. But it was nevertheless a friend, a valuable part of the hive that must be protected, even with Apista’s life.

How the bee knew this, she did not know. She didn’t think of it. It simply was, and that was enough. She caught the racing white thing at last and clung to its…head? The fur gave the bee’s legs ample purchase, and it had learned that the white thing didn’t mind her holding on. She and the white thing raced about the room for another minute and then pounced on a shape lying on a bed in the center of the room. Apista saw the movement and took off before the white thing landed. She heard an oof and felt—not in her mind, but close enough—a mix of emotions.

Surprise. Mild pain. Panic—and then—exasperation? Half of the emotions weren’t things the female bee could process, but she got surprise and panic. Her stinger extended, and she flew to the attack. But what? Not the white thing. The being who was so upset sat up, and the bee heard a voice.

“Mrsha! I told you not to wake me up that way!”

A Human, a young woman sat up. She grabbed for the white thing, who was wriggling like a larva emerging from its cocoon. She caught it, and the worker bee, still poised to attack something, suddenly felt a rush of emotion.

Love. The bee had no concept of this either. For a bee did not love. But it understood happiness, contentment, and satisfaction. And the outpouring of all these things was so great that it immediately relaxed.

Bees had little concept of past and future. They understood the changing of seasons, but that was a biological instinct as much as thought. There had been something possibly dangerous, then not. The bee was content. She landed on the white thing as the Human stroked its head. The bee heard an exclamation—odd in the way bees heard, but familiar—and then the voice.

“Apista! You’re awake too? Why didn’t you stop Mrsha?”

And the bee said nothing because it had nothing to say. Nor did it realize that was its name.

Apista.

Bees had no names. And besides, this bee couldn’t understand language to begin with. But it had grasped that the particular rhythm of a particular voice meant something. Aapiissstaaaa. And when that voice said it, it usually meant warning. Or food. Or an invitation to rest and have something touch it. So the bee crawled up the white thing’s head, and the touching thing happened now.

Pat, pat. A large hand stroked the top of Apista’s body. The bee let it happen. It couldn’t properly feel the touches. Bees had very few nerves compared to a Human. But it felt the contentment coming from the person touching it, and so Apista was similarly content. Even if she didn’t understand why.

Lyonette du Marquin patted Apista’s body very carefully, then felt a soft headbutt. She looked down and saw Mrsha was demanding the same. She laughed and obliged, running her fingers down Mrsha’s soft fur, scratching her back.

Almost like a dog or cat. But the difference was that Mrsha did the same. She combed Lyonette’s hair gently with a paw. And the look in her eyes was far too intelligent for any animal. She was mute, but not stupid. A child, but growing by the day. And all too soon, she patted Lyonette’s arm and pointed a furry claw at the door.

“Oh? Done so soon?”

Lyonette teased Mrsha. The Gnoll child looked up at her, rolled her eyes, patted her stomach twice, pointed at the door, and then leapt from the bed Lyonette was sitting in. She landed on the floor with all four paws, again like a cat, then straightened and caught Apista as the bee flew after her. She lifted the bee, flew her over her head, and then patted her stomach and Apista’s.

“Oh? Food for you and Apista, is it? How selfless.”

The Human smirked. But she was proud all the same, and Apista felt it. Even if proud to Apista only translated into—the hive is big, there is much honey, we shall not starve. But pride Lyonette felt, because Mrsha was talking.

Sort of. Mrsha was mute. She’d been born that way, and for that reason, she’d been abandoned as a child by her true parents. She had been raised by the Stone Spears tribe who had treated her as…well, a handicapped child, but one of their own nonetheless. But it meant that while they’d taught Mrsha what every Gnoll child living in a tribe must learn—how to help with chores, what to do not to interfere with the adults, and so on—they had never thought to do more.

But Lyonette had. And so had Erin. The [Innkeeper] had no grasp of sign language from her world—but she knew it existed, and she’d played chess with more than a few people who had spoken to her through sign language, interpreters, and the game itself. And Lyonette was simply intelligent and had understood that language wasn’t a sole thing—even if this world had only one true language that everyone spoke.

So Mrsha had begun coming up with her own way of speaking. Encouraged by the two, she’d developed some simple signs over the last few days, since Erin had told them about her true origins and shared some of the knowledge of Earth with them. She could say she was hungry—two pats on the stomach, one was pain if she held it there—or that she needed to go to the bathroom. A quick twirl with arms spread to indicate running around and needing a place to go.

Some of the ways Mrsha had chosen to communicate had Erin and Lyonette in stitches because they were original. Others were heartfelt.

Sadness to Mrsha wasn’t miming tears running down the face, or an expression. It was two tiny paws clasped together and then drifting apart. Sadness. A thing broken, gone forever. Destruction. Desolation.

Nothingness.

But today, Mrsha was happy. She didn’t need a sign for that. Her wagging tail said it all. Mrsha had combined Human sign language with Gnollish tells. Her ears and face and tail could do as much talking as her paws, and both Erin and Lyonette had long ago learned to pick up on the signs. It also meant older Gnolls could understand Mrsha quite easily once they learned a few of her words.

Mrsha patted her leg urgently. Hurry up! Lyonette groaned and put her legs out of bed.

“Alright, alright. I’m getting up. Don’t you dare open that door until I have my clothes on, understand?”

Mrsha sighed through her nose, but she waited as Lyonette put on some clothes. Mrsha was technically naked, but she had fur on, and Gnolls really didn’t wear much in the way of clothing even when they were adults. A Gnoll could walk around with barely more than a breast band and loincloth and males just the cloth and not attract much attention—at least, from most. Drakes and Humans, on the other hand, were more prudish.

True, City Gnolls were pickier about their garb, and Lyonette had met a few Gnolls who went around fully dressed. But Mrsha hated shirts, hated pants more, and had hid both cute hats that Erin had bought for her in the stove. So Lyonette dressed herself and no one else. In the meantime, Mrsha tossed up Apista and raced around the room after her.

The bee named Apista had no concept of plans or the complicated futures that Mrsha and Lyonette envisioned. But she had learned this new schedule, and she knew what was coming next. So like Mrsha, she was prepared to eat. And she could sense that intention from her…other hive member. Or was it her queen? No. Her…master?

No. It wasn’t a thought Apista would ever have of Lyonette. She didn’t know the girl’s name or what she was—to Apista, Lyonette was a fairly blobby thing, sometimes wearing odd colors, but always with the same pheromones. And Apista would recognize her everywhere. For Lyonette was her. Apista’s other self.

It was through Lyonette that Apista understood more of the world. Because she could sense Lyonette’s thoughts. They were abstract, often confusing. But always there. When Lyonette was angry, Apista felt it. When she was confused or tired, Apista knew. She and Lyonette were connected, and so the bee thought of Lyonette as another bee. Just uglier, unable to fly, and who did many odd things.

But she was the more important bee of the two. She had raised Apista from a larva, fed her, and cared for her. So Lyonette was the most important thing in the wooden hive. Second-most was the white thing, for which both she and Apista cared greatly. The other two things Apista thought of as being part of the ‘hive’ were the green thing that was sort of friendly and the scary thing.

They met the green thing two steps out of the door when Lyonette finally opened it. Mrsha scampered out and then paused. So did Lyonette. She stopped and stared at Numbtongue, who’d walked out of his room roughly the same time as them. He stared at them.

“Um. Hello, Numbtongue.”

Lyonette only hesitated for a moment. Mrsha stared up gravely at Numbtongue, then raised a paw in her silent greeting. The Hobgoblin blinked at them, and there was a moment of…

What? To Apista, it was a moment of wariness, like if a bear was approaching the hive and it might have to be driven off. She fanned her wings and took off of Mrsha’s head. To ward the green thing off. It wasn’t exactly part of the hive, although she sensed Lyonette’s goodwill towards it. The green thing stared at her as Apista flew, stinger extended threateningly—

Apista flew. Lyonette uttered a word with her name in it, but the feeling of caution emanating from her only grew more, and Apista just interpreted that as more warning against the green thing. So she flew at it—

And the green thing grabbed Apista.

Numbtongue stared at the struggling bee in his hands. He thought he’d grabbed it in the right spot. Gently, around the abdomen to hold the stinger back. But Lyonette exclaimed.

“No, Numbtongue! Let her, go, she’s going to—”

The Hobgoblin had underestimated Apista’s flexibility and strength. The bee wriggled. It was caught! It reacted as bees do. She coiled up, one angry ball of insect. And then she did what came naturally.

Apista stung.



——



“I am so sorry. Apista does that whenever she’s around new people. She doesn’t mean any harm by it—she just warns them off. She does it to everyone, but you grabbed her. No one’s done that before.”

Lyonette apologized to Numbtongue profusely as they sat at the table, applying a bit of healing potion to his hand. Only a few drops, but it was necessary. Apista’s stinger had gone right into Numbtongue’s hand before he’d let go, and her stinger was big. Apista herself was bigger than two hands put together now, and her stinger was dangerous.

Even more dangerous than a normal Ashfire Bee’s stinger because Apista was the size of a queen. And worse still because of Lyonette’s Skill. [Crimson Stinger]. The [Princess] hadn’t had a good chance to see what the change had wrought in Apista’s stinger aside from making it larger and more red, but now she saw as she tended to Numbtongue’s hand.

The wound in his hand was inflamed, and it was already puffing up. Lyonette poured the potion into the wound, watching the swelling go down—a bit.

“There must be a lot of venom in that stinger. I’m so sorry—”

“It’s fine. Doesn’t hurt that much. Good morning.”

Numbtongue shrugged. He flexed his hand, barely wincing as the skin closed up. It was the first thing he’d said all day. Lyonette stared at him and then couldn’t help but smile. The Goblin [Bard] looked at her and then at Apista.

The bee was confused. It had stung after being grabbed. As far as it was concerned, everything was great. The green thing had let it go and retreated. But Lyonette was angry. At Apista. The bee sensed it and didn’t know why. It flared its wings, wondering if the situation called for more stings. The green thing was keeping well away from it while the white thing bounced up and down at the table. Apista was about to fly about to look for more enemies when it heard another voice.

“I told you that bee’s a menace! A menace I say!”

Erin Solstice walked over, planted a huge plate of eggs and bacon in front of Mrsha, Numbtongue, and Lyonette, and mock-glared at Apista. She had tankards in her other hand as well. Milk for Mrsha, water for Lyonette, and milk for Numbtongue.

“That’s a lot of eggs, Erin.”

Lyonette eyed the eggs with mild alarm. Mrsha reached for the heaping plate, and Lyonette grabbed her paw.

“Ah! Did you wash your hands, miss? And where’s your plate? And fork?”

Mrsha’s face fell. She slunk off the table and found the washing bucket of water and the little soap ball. Apista flew with her. She thought about drinking from the bucket, but experience had taught her that was not good water. She was flying with Mrsha because she was wary of the fourth creature in the wood hive she lived in.

The scary one. If Lyonette was a fellow bee, the white thing a precious creature, like a baby larva, and the green one…a green one, then the scary one was a threat. Like a wasp or a bear, but somehow, still part of the hive. Lyonette liked her, and so Apista didn’t consider the scary one a threat—but she was still scary.

Erin Solstice stared at Apista warily as the bee flew about Mrsha. Apista was giving her much the same look.

Bees did not see like people. In fact, their eyes weren’t much hot stuff anyways. They could make out bright colors to find food, but it wasn’t for clear, stunning, high-resolution analysis. So Erin didn’t look that much different from Lyonette in Apista’s mind. But bees were also animals, and in that sense, Apista saw more than Lyonette.

To Apista, Erin was bigger than her form. At times, she was just the size of her body. But at others, she filled the room, the wood hive that was Apista’s home. She became the hive, and in those moments, she was a terrible giant. A thing the bee had no words for and which scared Apista.

So, the scary one. Right now, Erin wasn’t scary, but the bee had decided long ago not to get too near her. She flew past Erin and investigated the bright eggs and meat. Not her choice of food, and indeed, Lyonette instantly shooed her away.

“No, Apista! I’ll get your food in a moment. Erin, I’m going into Liscor today. We need more sugar for her water, and I’ve got some other errands to run.”

“Sounds good! I’m going into Pallass.”

The word made everyone look up. Erin’s face was set. Lyonette scratched her head.

“Pallass?”

“That’s right. Just to see what it’s like. You know, get a feel for the place? Ilvriss is still banned from there, and no one else is using the door—those jerks still don’t feel like visiting Liscor. So I’m going through.”

“Okay then. Mrsha will come with me, I suppose. Or visit Krshia?”

Mrsha, sitting at the table and bouncing up and down, waiting for her plate and fork, nodded eagerly. Lyonette smiled.

“And then that only leaves—”

They stared at Numbtongue. He was staring at the eggs and bacon as hungrily as Mrsha. He looked up belatedly and then shrugged—caught himself—and opened his mouth.

“I will go into the mountains. To mine.”

“With the mana stone?”

Erin was anxious. Numbtongue nodded.

“With stone. You’ll check the door?”

He looked at Lyonette. She nodded as well.

“If I’m not here, Ishkr or Drassi will check it every ten minutes. And they’ll have it set to your mana stone by default.”

She nodded to the rotating mana stones that had been installed on the door. There were five now. One for Celum, Liscor, a bright purple mana stone that Numbtongue carried, an orange gem for a door that Griffon Hunt and the Halfseekers used, and Pallass. Erin nodded, smiling.

“We’re adding more mana stones! Hawk just put that stone up in Pallass—I’m still not sure how useful it is since we barely do anything, but I guess it’s convenient for security and stuff. Plus, Ilvriss paid for it, so that’s cool by me. But we’ve got two more connections.”

“That door that Griffon Hunt’s helping bring north to Invrisil. And Numbtongue’s personal door.”

Lyonette looked at Numbtongue. He reached into his pouch and showed them the purple gem.

“Have it here. Good way to go from mountains to here.”

“You’re sure you want to go alone? I don’t want you getting hurt.”

Erin looked at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin shrugged.

“Not too dangerous. Just climbing and looking for good spots mostly. Boring. And if I find anything—”

He pointed to the gem. Erin huffed and hesitated.

“Just remember you need a door to get it to work.”

“I will bring one. And mine all day.”

“You sure you just need a pickaxe? What about a shovel? Don’t miners work in teams or something?”

Numbtongue shrugged.

“Probably. But that’s not how Goblins mine. Not how he mined.”

The others fell silent. Apista flew into the kitchen and inspected some bacon grease before resuming her patrol, checking on if anything had changed in her ‘hive’, the inn, while she’d slept. As the sole proper bee, she had to make sure nothing had penetrated the hive and was lurking there. Like…hive beetles. Or spiders. She hated spiders.

“Okay then. I guess that’s our plan for today! Lyonette, the inn’s all yours. Now, let’s get some plates and dig in before the adventurers come by! There’ll probably be at least a few groups. Griffon Hunt’s started eating here every morning, plus the other teams come by to relax…”

Erin clapped her hands. Lyonette helped her get plates, smiling.

“They come here for the good food. You should be happy.”

“Yeah, but all they do is eat, argue, and take turns escorting the door.”

“Well, they are relaxing after the dungeon.”

“Adventurers relaxing means one of them starts causing trouble at some point. Remember when they tried playing baseball again? Right outside the inn? They cracked two windows.”

“Well, they paid for them. And today Ishkr will be here, not Drassi. I can trust him. I’ll be back soon enough, Erin. I’d let someone else get the supplies, but I have other business…”

“Ooh. While you’re at it, can you get me some more eggs? They’re cheap, but I, uh, used them for breakfast. And I want to make some more egg-based dishes when I get back from Pallass. Egg drop soup. I don’t quite know how to make it, but I assume you have egg and soup and there’s dropping involved…”

Lyonette sighed, but Apista felt the hint of amusement from her. The bee flew down as Lyonette filled a bowl with water and sugar. Erin eyed the bee greedily drinking up the syrup before Lyonette had even carried it back into the common room.

“You sure Apista’s fine with just that? I thought she needed more.”

“Well, I haven’t let her out of the inn for fear she’ll get attacked by birds, but there are the flowers.”

Lyonette waved towards the little yellow flowers blooming in the planters near the windows. Erin stared at them.

“Oh. Right. I forgot! We should make some more Faerie Flower drinks, Lyonette.”

The [Princess] shuddered.

“They’re not exactly social drinks, Erin.”

“No…but they are good for some people. Sometimes. And Halrac and Ilvriss ask me if I have more now and then. Say, could you get more honey as well?”

Lyonette paused.

“From the Ashfire Bee hive? I haven’t gone back there in a while. I could…try.”

The last time she’d harvested honey from them had been in the winter, but she’d stopped with the spring rains and the uptick in monsters. Now, the Floodplains were muddy, but some of the muck was turning into proper soil again. And there were plants blooming, the last of the undead had finally been taken care of…it was beginning to be a proper spring. Erin hesitated.

“I mean, I know it’s dangerous, but your smoke trick’s worked before, right? And honey is a money earner.”

“True. I’ll try it. After I see Krshia. Oh—and I’ll visit the Players of Celum and see why they haven’t dropped by yet.”

“Would you? It totally slipped my mind. Well, not slipped my mind, but every time I go through to Celum, Octavia’s bugged me about new potion ideas and helping her burn down this other guy’s shop…”

The two chatted as Apista drank the precious water and sugar up. She knew it was exactly what she needed to survive. But Erin was right. Water and sugar were one thing, but a bee lived on honey. And Apista was predisposed to another thing too.

Nectar. As she was not a queen who lived to lay brood, she was instinctively motivated towards the little flowers. So as the other adventurers came down the stairs, Numbtongue and Mrsha fought for a rasher of bacon, and Erin and Lyonette circled the inn, the Ashfire Bee flew up and towards the little planters near the windows. There she landed and inspected the flowers.

They were small and yellow. Vibrant, like little coins of gold sprouting from the soil. Ironic, since that was how Erin had first received them. Fake gold coins, a faerie’s trick payment. But she’d taken the flowers and planted them, and they’d bloomed into flowers that were very useful and very magical.

One sip of the nectar could make you see things. Mix it with alcohol and you’d see the past. Or a past that might have been or…just dream. Lyonette had found you could burn the flowers too. Dried and burned, they created an incense that put the Ashfire Bee hive to sleep and allowed her to collect honey. The flowers probably had other uses too, but they were as yet still growing and multiplying, and Erin wanted a veritable garden first.

A certain little Gnoll and Apista were responsible for the much larger body of flowers in the planters along the windowsill. Encouraged by their efforts, the flowers had multiplied from three boxes of scattered blooms in the soil to six full boxes, and a seventh one was on the way once Lyonette or Erin transplanted the delicate flowers. To Apista, it was a bounty of nectar.

And yet, still the bee hesitated. Bees had short memories in some regards, but in others? They could navigate back to a patch of flowers pollinated years ago. Because while individual bees died, a hive remembered. And Apista, short though her life had been, knew these flowers.

She knew what would happen next. But it wasn’t a strictly negative experience, one that would warn her away, like getting grabbed by the green thing or accidentally getting smacked by Mrsha while the Gnoll was asleep. It was something else. And because Apista had no concept of it, because she was programmed to seek the nectar in the little flowers, and because part of her wanted to, she drew closer. Her proboscis lowered, and she delicately inserted it into the bud of the first flower.

Bee fact. Regular Earth bees could forage as many as six miles outside of their hive. Ashfire Bees, the colossi of the bee families in this world, could forage for as many as twenty miles outside their hives, and further still if need be. They had to, as smaller flowers were far too tiny to provide them with enough nectar.

In that sense, the six beds of Faerie Flowers were just a warm-up for the Ashfire Bee. In another?

Apista drank. And the world slowed ddddddoooooooowwwwwnnnnnnnnnnn…………

Bees didn’t think like people. But they did think. And Apista was thinking about thinking, which was a novel experience for any bee. The idea of thought was to her like this strange thing. You could think? About thinking? That was…like…

Thought. Apista raised her head. Yellow flowers looked at her. But from a different angle, they looked like blooming gold. Or gold that bloomed through a flower. Maybe they were gold and the flowers were the illusion. Maybe this window was—

Apista ran into the window. Okay, maybe it wasn’t an illusion. The Ashfire Bee crawled up the window. Wow. This hard stuff was really hard. And see-through. She could see right through it, but it was there. Outside, the sky glowed with dawn light. Apista wondered if it had anything to say. She fanned her wings.

She could see—

—the shape of—

—tomorrow—

And it was green. With pink polka dots.

Apista tripped. And when bees tripped, they tripped hard.



——



“Huh. You know, I never realized it, but what does Apista do all day when you’re working, Lyonette?”

Erin was about to leave for her trip to Pallass when she spotted the Ashfire Bee. It was crawling all over the window where the Faerie Flowers were blooming. Erin assumed it was good for the little things, for all Apista could have squashed them. But they really had been growing nicely.

Lyonette looked up from learning a new word Mrsha had invented. A tap on the nose and quick circle meant ‘tracking’. An important word for Gnolls. She was wondering if there was a way to write all this down for other people. A book, maybe?

She looked up and blinked at Apista. Lyonette frowned, then shrugged, unconcerned.

“All day? Mostly that. She always gets like this after eating. Quiet. Some days, she just sits on the flower beds for hours. I guess I should let her out more, but I feel like she’s pretty happy like this.”

She got up and walked over to Apista, picking the bee off the window. Apista didn’t resist. Erin eyed Apista as Mrsha tried to teach her the new word.

“…Is she trying to fly upside down?”

“I think so?”

To Lyonette, Apista’s mind was a distant thing. She could sense if the bee was hungry, in pain, or so on thanks to their [Lesser Bond] skill, but that was about it. Right now, she was getting…something approaching static from Apista’s mind. It happened surprisingly often. Lyonette assumed Apista just wasn’t thinking that much.

“Well, that’s bees for you. Must be nice. That’s a nice word, Mrsha! Tracking. Got it! I’ll remember. And you can ‘track’ me down if I’m late. I’m off to Pallass! See ya!”

Erin waved at the others and walked through the magic door. Numbtongue was already gone for the day. That just left Lyonette, the adventurers who’d come downstairs and into the inn, and the hired help. Mrsha padded over to Ishkr and tugged on his leg. She was determined to teach everyone her new word.

“Mrsha, don’t—well, okay. But don’t bother Ishkr if he’s busy, got it?”

Lyonette sighed as the Gnoll [Waiter] obligingly bent down to learn Mrsha’s word. Some of the other adventurers looked up; they were playing dice and waiting to change places with the Halfseekers, who were lugging the door north.

“—Not even at Celum yet. Why don’t we hire a carriage and speed the process?”

Halrac was grunting to Dawil. The Dwarf shrugged as he rolled some dice in a cup.

“You in a hurry, lad?”

“I’m older than you are.”

“And I’m a Dwarf. I get to call Humans ‘lad’ and ‘lass’. Besides, the slow pace means we can take jobs around the door if we want.”

Halrac grimaced.

“True. Esthelm has hunting missions. It’s just—”

“Too good for Bronze-rank requests?”

The Dwarf grinned, teasingly. The [Scout] almost smiled.

“I was going to say that killing too many animals would hurt their [Hunters]. Roll the dice, will you?”

“I will as soon as we put up some money on this. How’s five coppers sound? Hey, pointy ears! You want to get on this? And no cheating like last time, or…”

All seemed well. Lyonette looked at Ishkr. He was managing a pair of Gnoll workers today.

“You can handle watching Mrsha for a few hours?”

“Yes, Lyonette. Honored Krshia is busy at work, and I think she will be fine here. One of us can let her run about outside now the undead are gone. Although I think she is content here.”

Ishkr was referring to Mrsha wandering over to Typhenous and Revi. They were talking magic, and the Gnoll was content to listen to them—or sit on Moore’s lap when he was relaxing. Lyonette nodded.

“I’ll be back, then. To Celum first. Remember, every ten minutes and keep—”

“—the door attuned to Numbtongue’s stone. I understand.”

Ishkr patiently nodded. Lyonette smiled sheepishly.

“Thank you!”

She put Apista back on the windowsill. The Ashfire Bee lay there, content with the world, or so Lyonette vaguely felt. The [Princess] shook her head. She stepped over to the magic door, envying Apista’s simple way of being. She on the other hand wasn’t always so happy. Even though Erin had given Lyonette run of the inn, the job wasn’t always easy. Especially when Lyonette thought about money coming and leaving the inn.

True, they were a thousand gold coins richer from the Redfang Goblins’ gift. But the third floor and Bird’s tower were still gone. Adventurers made up their small day-to-day earnings, and the new staff required pay too. Lyonette had big plans, so she needed big business. Which meant the Players of Celum had to come back and start putting on huge shows.

“They’ve been gone for a long time. I thought they’d be chomping at the bit to come back, but they didn’t. Not while Erin was crying, and not even afterwards.”

Lyonette frowned to herself, worried. That probably meant they were putting on performances in Celum. Which was…not ideal. But she had hopes she could convince them to come back to The Wandering Inn. Jasi and Wesle owed Erin a lot.

The instant Lyonette pushed the door open and stepped into Octavia’s shop, the [Alchemist] sprang from behind her counter.

“Lyonette! Just who I was looking for!”

“Not now, Octavia. I’m just coming through.”

“Right, right. But while you’re here, why not stock up on some potions? Stay and chat? Have a stamina potion, on me. This one’s extra sweet! Why don’t you sit, talk about Erin—has she mentioned me at all? I’ve just got this thing going on that—”

“Octavia, please. I don’t have time to talk.”

The [Princess] tried to fend off the dark-skinned Stitch-girl. She gritted her teeth, wishing she could shove Octavia out of the way. But that wasn’t right, was it?

“Come on, Lyonette? We’re pals, aren’t we?”

“I don’t think so?”

“What? You’re breaking my heart, Lyonette! We’ve been the best of friends! You and me, both working with Erin. Buddies, ever since you and Mrsha stayed here during the Face-Eater Moth attack. And friends help friends, right? If you could just…”

Lyonette felt a hand dragging at her. She shook Octavia off, making for the door. She tried to tell herself it was just Octavia being Octavia. No need to get upset.

Be polite. Smile, don’t think of Octavia as a peasant. And don’t kick her even if she shoves another potion bottle in your face.

“If you could just—”

At last, Lyonette slammed the door to Octavia’s shop. She shook her head. Octavia. That [Alchemist] had a way of getting on people’s nerves. She was always, always trying to get Lyonette or Erin or even Mrsha to do something.

“Not once have I walked through there without Octavia trying to get me to sit and listen to her idea for twenty minutes. Or spend a dozen gold pieces to ‘fund’ her.”

Lyonette grumbled to herself. She stomped away from the shop and only then noticed that part of the boarded-up exterior of Stitchworks was slightly charred. Lyonette stopped, frowning at the exterior.

Ever since one of Erin’s plans had ended up with the front of Octavia’s shop getting knocked in, it had been boarded up. It didn’t exactly make the shop look appealing, but the [Alchemist] hadn’t bothered to fix it. Only, it looked like someone had nearly set fire to the wooden exterior.

From the outside. Lyonette wondered if Octavia had dropped some matches or something. She frowned, hesitated, and then shook her head.

“Probably nothing. And if I go back in, I’ll have to listen to that…that…peasant talk some more.”

The invective slipped out of Lyonette’s mouth before she could stop it. She caught herself, frowning, and then turned and hurried away from the shop, suddenly ashamed. Lyonette walked past a gossiping couple of women, hurried down a street past a man with a cart full of radishes, and towards the base of the Players of Celum. All the while she was thinking to herself, barely noticing the people around her.

Peasants. Wasn’t that what Lyonette used to call them? It felt like a foreign word now. A stupid one to apply to everyone who crossed her path. True, it was somewhat accurate because they weren’t royalty, but—no.

“That was old Lyonette. Old me. I’m not like that. Judgmental. Stupid.”

Lyonette muttered to herself. The man with the wheelbarrow gave her an odd look. Lyonette gave him a strained grin, and he decided to cross the street to the other side. The [Princess] shook her head.

It had just been a slip of the tongue. But it was a good reminder. She couldn’t be old Lyonette. Not bossy, not stuck-up. She had to be nice and friendly, a good [Barmaid], a helpful friend…

Perfect. Meek, unassuming, content to be a [Barmaid]. And that was something Lyonette didn’t enjoy either. She’d loved running Erin’s inn without Erin. Being a host, being in charge.

Being a [Princess]. Pawn had shown her that. She didn’t want to be just in the background, but the old her had been a nightmare. So where was the compromise?

Lyonette shook her head. She felt more and more like the old her, sometimes. It was her [Princess] class reminding her. That was why she’d volunteered to run Erin’s inn while the [Innkeeper] went on a semi-vacation. She’d wanted the job, wanted the power. She had so many ideas…

At last, Lyonette came to the large storehouse that had been converted into the base for the Players of Celum. It was, of course, locked and usually had a pair of hired [Guards] lounging about the front to prevent fans of the Players from breaking in and watching the [Actors] at work.

They weren’t here today. Which was curious. And slightly worrying. Lyonette hesitated and then knocked hard on the door. She waited impatiently for a few seconds, knocked louder, and waited some more.

“Maybe they’re out?”

Lyonette wondered if she should do the Erin thing and push her way into the storehouse. But was that too bold? Too rude? Too much like old Lyonette? Because she wanted to. She knocked a third time, then put her hand on the door’s handle. She was about to yank the door open when someone pushed from inside.

“Whoops!”

The young woman sprang back. She saw an unfamiliar face appear in the doorway. A young man with a painted face. An [Actor]. He wasn’t one Lyonette recognized by name, but she’d seen his face in some of the plays. She blinked at him, and he blinked at her. Then his eyes widened.

“Miss Lyonette?”

“Uh—Temile?”

The [Actor] nodded. He pushed the door open and beckoned Lyonette in.

“Come in, come in! I didn’t expect to see you today! Apologies—we were practicing and we barely heard—is Miss Erin alright? Is the inn open at last?”

Lyonette stepped into the storehouse and looked around. The Players of Celum had bought the place with the first of their earnings and turned it into a miniature theatre and dressing room. There were wigs, costumes, fake weapons, a stage to practice on and seats for the ‘veteran’ [Actors] to critique the newbies, a place for Emme and the [Writers] to come up with new material or alter Erin’s plays, and so on. It was a bustling place, or it had been the other two times Lyonette had visited it.

But today, the storehouse was almost empty. A dozen people were in the building, three on the stage, the rest watching. There was one person fiddling with the costumes. Lyonette stared around. The Players of Celum was a troupe of over sixty members now! They were the hottest thing since flaming Corusdeer! Where was Wesle? Jasi? Grev and Emme? Kilkran?

“Temile, where is everyone? Are they performing?”

“Ah. Well, you see—I wish we’d been able to tell you. But what with the siege of Liscor and us not knowing when Miss Erin’d be back, and then the door going dead and—”

Temile was hesitating. His painted face, already supposed to look sad, looked even more apprehensive as Lyonette turned to him.

“What? Did they start performing at other inns? That’s fine, but Erin’s inn is back open. And we could really use the business…what?”

“You see, Miss Lyonette—and don’t be angry, it’s not my choice! Wesle and the others were talking it over, but we gave Miss Erin our word we wouldn’t put on plays anywhere but her inn. But everyone needs paying for food and families and so on, and we were just sitting there. And then came along an offer—”

“An offer?”

The [Actor] nodded miserably.

“A good one. From Lellisdam.”

Lyonette had never heard the name before. Temile elaborated.

“It’s a big city. Nearly eighty miles north of here. Far from Celum, but it’s one of the bigger cities on the road north.”

“Eighty miles? And they left? Without telling us?”

Lyonette was horrified. Temile winced.

“Well…you were out of touch! There was talk of war with the Drakes, and the [Mayor] of Lellisdam had heard rumors of our acts! He sent us gold as an advance, promised to pay for the entire troupe to come down the road with an escort…there was a huge argument about it. Lots of debates.”

“But in the end, they chose to go?”

Lyonette felt weak at the knees. Temile sighed.

“It weren’t easy, but yes. Jasi wanted to tell Erin, but the offer wasn’t going to sit. So…I’ve got a letter from her to Miss Erin explaining. The Players left for the north. Me and two of the old crew, Damius and Rima, stayed with some of the new recruits. We’ve been sitting here, learning the old plays and living off the funds from the main group. The plan was that if you took a long time to get here, we’d train up a new group while Wesle, Jasi, and the others earned money up north. There’s tons of interest in our plays, and no one in the north’s even heard of us yet. There’s a fortune to be made. So…”

“I get it.”

Lyonette spoke flatly. So, the Players had gone. She shouldn’t be surprised. Not really. But she was anyways. And she’d been counting on them to start pulling their old crowds in. Now…Lyonette looked about at the handful of [Actors] and the recruits. One of them was on stage. Lyonette could see him waving his hand about like a boneless chicken. Temile followed her gaze and winced.

“They’re new. But they want to learn, and we’re working on them. Not everyone’s got Kilkran’s voice or Jasi’s instinct.”

“Can they put on a play? I was hoping we could have you back. But…”

Lyonette stared at the [Actors]. Temile nodded hurriedly.

“Of course! We’re overjoyed to have the inn open. And we’ll put on a performance tonight! Dead gods, this is the time to recruit those Drakes and Gnolls, isn’t it? We might not be able to do as well as Wesle and Jasi, but with time and practice—we’ll draw in some crowds, at least, I’m sure. Why, with a few weeks to get our new group up to speed…”

He faltered a bit as Lyonette looked at him. But all the [Princess] did was nod and put a fake smile on her face.

“I’m sure Erin will be delighted. And yes, by all means come tonight. There were Drakes and Gnolls interested in joining. I’m sure they’ll be…a real help.”

“We could use more hands. Er, claws, paws, and whatever. So, ah, tonight? I’ve got to tell the others if we’re actually going to—I mean, prep them. We’ll do a simple play, I think.”

The man edged away from Lyonette. She nodded and saw him hurry over to the Players, shouting and pointing back at her. One of the young women on stage seemed to be taken with a bout of stage fright already. The actor with the floppy hand had the opposite reaction and began emoting with twice the waving of his arm. Lyonette debated staying, but decided she couldn’t. If she did, she might end up saying something she’d regret.

She went back the way she’d come, fuming a bit inside, and trying not to be angry. Part of her wanted to take the [Actor] to task. Would it have been that hard to send someone with a message? Really? Instead, the Players had just left for greener pastures. But she bit her tongue—it was entirely understandable of them.

Understandable, but it didn’t make Lyonette less angry. But she was slightly proud of herself for not blowing up at Temile. It would have done no good. She’d be polite, nice, and if they fouled up on stage and drove away her guests—

“I’m back!”

Lyonette slammed the door on Octavia before the [Alchemist] had a chance to pester her. She saw the adventurers were still at their tables, and Mrsha was watching Dawil arm-wrestle Typhenous. And lose.

“Damn it! What kind of spell is that?”

The Dwarf roared in frustration as the elderly [Mage] cackled. Lyonette sighed, but then saw Ishkr poke his head out of the kitchen.

“We’ve got the Players of Celum tonight? Should I get ready for a lot of customers?”

“Yes, and no. We’ll probably get some crowd, more from Liscor, at least until they realize what’s changed.”

Lyonette sighed. Ishkr raised his eyebrows, but she didn’t elaborate.

“Send one of the Gnolls—Rishka? Into the city and spread the word that the Players will be performing tonight. But maybe only people interested in joining should come. I’m going there too. I’ll be back.”

“Understood.”

Ishkr nodded. Lyonette walked towards the magic door. She slipped through it, not noticing or caring that Dawil, in his huff, had gotten up to pee away his frustrations. He slammed the door open, and it slowly began to close. No one cared; they were all busy watching Typhenous begin to arm-wrestle Falene, both [Mages] actively casting spells on themselves and each other.

The door bounced back slowly towards the shut position. And that was fine, because Dawil would close it on the way back in. Or someone else would. Mrsha was too responsible to go outside without a Gnoll watching her now, and the zombies had mostly been eradicated. This was an inn full of adventurers, so what was the worry?

None at all. Unless, of course, a completely Faerie-Flower-drugged Ashfire Bee decided that it was going outside. Then you might have a problem.



——



Apista the bee spoke to herself for the first time. It was not the way a bee thought, but she had eaten from flowers and so it felt fine.

She said or whispered or spoke however a bee does, “Oh, I am a bee, and a bee I must be. But what is a bee, if a bee is not free?”

There was no one to listen, or even to hear. And her other half, the bee that walked and thought, wasn’t here. She had been, but now she was distant, as it sometimes happened. “Damn magic,” thought Apista, though she had no notion of magic or how to swear.

On other days, Apista might have lain and thought deep thoughts about flowers and basked in the sun. But oh! Look there! She saw an open door, a crack. And a great plot was begun.

Stealthily, as stealthily as a bee could be. Apista crept towards the door. It was a fabulous plan, as smart as an Ashfire Bee could hatch. But it was foiled by the creature of scales who came through the door, as loud as thunder, as loud as a boar.

“Ishkr! I’m here to work! Hey—”

Apista took wing, racing for the door. The thing of scales exclaimed, “Oh no! Apista! Shut the door!”

She lunged, but the door was ajar and the Dwarf coming through already sloshed at the bar. Apista flew at his face, and he jumped in surprise. The scaly thing, whose name might be Drassi, shouted, “Stop her! Get her, Dawil!”

And the Dwarf leapt for her, ready to foil her plans. But clever, she, the bee. She dodged and wove around the grasping hands, landed in the beard and crawled up the screaming face. Then she leapt again and flew out the door. Apista laughed at the one chasing her of scales and fright. She shouted at them in words they could not hear, “At last, I fly free!”

And then she was airborne! Apista flew through the skies. Free for once of her hive of wood. Free at last, as free as a bee. As free as could be. Until a terrible thought occurred to her. She was free, but could she be? (She was still high or drunk or tripping, as you clearly can see.)

She had no hive nor purpose. Apista flew through the skies, aimless and helpless, suddenly gripped by philosophical woes. She looked at the sky and wept, only bees do not weep. And there was no one to hear her. She was still hallucinating that she could speak.

“What reason have I?” cried the bee. “What am I to do? By what reason am I free?”

And the sky spoke. “You are alone.”

And the bee knew it to be true. So she flew across the land, looking for her other half. For she completed she, but even together they were a bee twice alone. For what is a bee without a queen? Two bees, then, flew together. Neither one worker, neither one queen. But both in between.

So the bee found her other self and flew down to her. Asking, “What shall we do? What do you see? What pulls you, and how do you see me? What shall I do? By what reason am I free?”

Thus was began Apista’s great quest in the open. And in an inn made of wood, a Drake stood in the door. Drassi stared at the open sky, mouth agape. Dawil swore as he felt at his beard that Apista had crawled up, and Drassi saw Apista’s form grow smaller and smaller in the sky. She gulped and looked back at Ishkr, who’d arrived too late.

“Oh, Ancestors. Lyonette is going to kill me.”



——



Lyonette’s journey to Liscor was uneventful, at least to begin with. She made her way down Market Street, saw a familiar Gnoll at her stall, and made her way towards her. She got halfway there when an angry voice shouted at her.

“There, you see? The [Thief]! I’ve been telling everyone, that inn is just a den of criminals! Look at her, without the decency to stay out of the city! She was exiled! And look! She’s swanning right about, defying the law. Just like that!”

Lyonette jumped. She looked around and saw the shouter was a familiar Drake. Lism was shouting from his stall, his scales red and purple as he screamed at the people around him.

“Not only did that damn Human bring a Goblin into our homes, but a [Thief]! They caused riots in the city, and one of their flesh-loving friends nearly drowned me in the confusion! Are we to let this pass? I ask you! You, Shopkeeper Malvilla, didn’t that [Thief] steal from you? And you, Skemil? And even honored Krshia over there was a victim! But it appears that Gnolls forgive and forget too easily! Not so with Drakes, I say!”

An accusatory claw was pointed at Lyonette. She flushed as all eyes turned towards her. The two [Shopkeepers] mentioned gave Lyonette dark looks. Lism, still spitting outrage, pointed at Lyonette.

“Well? What do you have to say for yourself? Nothing? Just like a Human! First your kind attack our city with Goblins, and now—”

“Shut up, Lism! No one wants to hear it. I came here to buy fruits, not hear you spray.”

A passing Drake shouted, annoyed. Lism turned his wrath on the Drake.

“Oh yes? And where were you when the Humans were throwing rocks at our gates? Waiting to welcome your Human friends with open arms?”

The Drake glared and opened his mouth. Not coming up with a response, he went with a simpler option and turned his claw into a fist.

“Shut it. Or I’ll shut that mouth for you.”

“Oho? You and what Humans? Got an army of fleshbags with you?”

“That’s it—”

Lyonette slunk away from the argument towards Krshia’s stall. The two Drakes were shouting at each other. Lyonette’s ears were crimson as Krshia waved her closer. The Gnoll bared her teeth, her eyes flashing as she looked at Lism.

“Pay no notice, Lyonette. He’s been angry since someone tried to drown him in the baths. And angrier still since half the city thinks it’s a pity whoever did it didn’t finish the job.”

“I—thank you.”

The [Princess] felt her cheeks redden. She looked at Lism. He was getting jeered on as the Drake on the ground challenged him to leave his stall and take a few swings, but there were a number of people still glaring daggers at her. Her and Krshia. Mostly Drakes, but a few Gnolls too.

“Has he been like this all the time?”

Krshia grimaced and dug at her ear. Lyonette realized she’d packed some wax in there as makeshift earplugs.

“All of yesterday, the day before, and today. The Watch warned him twice to keep it down, but he’s argued they’re showing favoritism since they didn’t investigate who tried to drown him. So they’re letting him waste his breath. I wish I could say that I had the same hopes, but that’s the price of healing and stamina potions, no?”

She grimaced. Lyonette nodded. She glanced back at Lism.

“He’s right. But wrong. I was let back into the city, but I didn’t ask for it. Zel intervened on my behalf. And it wasn’t us who led the Goblins here. Erin fought the Goblin Lord’s army.”

Krshia nodded. The Gnoll knew everything Lyonette was saying, but the [Princess] had to say it again. Just to hear it and not what Lism was shouting.

“It is a fact most Gnolls know, Lyonette. And we have settled our debts. Ignore Lism—he speaks because he cannot act. And those who listen reveal themselves. Myself, I just wish I had better earplugs.”

She offered Lyonette a toothy grin. The young woman half-smiled. She wished she could shout all those things back at Lism. But she had no ground to stand on. She had burned down Krshia’s shop and stolen from half the shops on this street. Every time she came here, she did feel their gazes on her. But she hoped she could rectify that today.

“I’m not staying long. But can you add some sugar to my delivery list for tomorrow?”

“Hrr. Of course. How much?”

“Um. Make it a big sack. I know it’s pricey—”

Krshia waved that away.

“Not so much now that the siege is lifted and spring begun, yes? One of the [Merchants] already made it from Celum. His goods were pricey, but the prices will already go down. Sugar is expensive since it comes from Baleros, but there are no wars there to drive up the price either.”

“Lucky for us, hrm?”

Krshia blinked and then laughed at Lyonette’s imitation of her way of speaking.

“Go along with you now! Unless you want to hear Lism bellowing more?”

Lyonette did not. She walked away from the market, but not before Lism got a few parting shots in.

“Hah! Look at that! Running like the cowardly Human she is! Not a tail to tuck between her legs! Hey—don’t you climb onto my stall! You attack me and I’ll call the Watch! I have a right to free speech! Not that a Human-loving pervert would understand anything of—”

For a second, Lyonette thought about going back. For a second. But no. Running up to Lism and calling him a peasant with eggs for brains would not be helpful. As much as she wanted to do just that. Lyonette walked down the street, passing by Drakes and Gnolls and knowing they could see her red cheeks and ears. And then, like that, a bee fell out of the skies and landed on Lyonette’s head.

“Apista!?”

The Ashfire Bee buzzed, her wings flapping rapidly as the Drakes and Gnolls took one look at the oversized insect and sprang away. Lyonette grabbed at Apista as the bee wobbled erratically around her in flight. The Ashfire Bee’s thoughts were disjointed, but Lyonette caught confusion, desperation, and—melancholy from her. She’d never sensed these emotions from Apista. Or seen her act like this!

“What is going on with you? And how did you get out of the inn? Did Mrsha let you out? Is something wrong?”

Lyonette scolded the bee. But Apista didn’t seem worried or in battle-mode as she might if something was wrong, like the inn being attacked. She landed on Lyonette’s open palms at last and fanned her wings. The [Princess] brought her up to eye-level, hesitated as she noticed the crowd staring at her, and made a rapid decision.

“Just hold on to me and don’t make a fuss, understand? I’m bringing you right back to the inn. After I—drat. You know what? Just stay here.”

Lyonette placed the bee on her shoulder and started walking. And despite the bee’s odd emotions, it did obey. Lyonette could do that, at least. She hurried down the street. Apista helped her make better time than usual; half the pedestrians took one look at Lyonette and decided to walk around her.

“I wonder if owning other pets is like this. Father used to have a dog, but it’s not the same as [Beast Tamers] raising an animal, is it?”

The young woman groused as Apista rubbed her face on her shoulder. She still felt the bee’s wooziness, quite intensely in fact. Lyonette hadn’t noticed it, but now she realized it was the same feeling she got from Apista every morning.

“It’s the Faerie Flowers, isn’t it? Of all the—no wonder you lie about all day! I’m going to have to stop you from eating those! Why didn’t I notice it until now?”

Predictably, Apista didn’t respond. But Lyonette sensed the bee sobering or waking up or…doing whatever bees did to flush out their system as she walked down the street. She guessed that Apista would usually go back to the Faerie Flowers for seconds or even thirds.

Idiot. Lyonette sighed as she pushed the door open to the Watch barracks and strode in. She marched up to the front desk. A Gnoll was on duty. He looked bored—right up until he noticed the bee on Lyonette’s shoulder. Then he stared at that as if it was the most interesting thing he’d seen all day.

“Uh. Excuse me, Miss?”

Lyonette pointed at Apista.

“Pet. I’m a [Beast Tamer]. May I ask if the Watch Captain is in today?”

“Um. She is. Are you looking to see her about…?”

The Gnoll waved at the bee. Lyonette shook her head.

“I’d like to request an appointment. I can do that, right?”

The Gnoll tore his gaze away from the bee. He looked at Lyonette, blinked, and then nodded.

“You can…I’ll send up a request. But, ah, she’s usually busy. If this is a minor matter, I or another [Guardsman] on duty could help you out, Miss…?”

“Lyonette. And no, I’d like to speak to the Watch Captain.”

The Gnoll frowned dubiously, but with a sigh, and another look at Apista, he got up and walked up the stairs to the second floor of the barracks. He came back a few moments later and shook his head.

“She’s busy. If she has time, she’ll hear your request. Please take a seat.”

Lyonette’s spirits fell, but she did find a seat. The barracks were full of activity—people coming in, Drakes or Gnolls being charged or paying fines, other [Guards] doing paperwork or chatting—it only occurred to Lyonette after a moment that the Gnollish [Guardsman] at the desk had omitted an important detail.

“Excuse me.”

He looked up and sighed.

“Yes?”

“How long did Watch Captain Zevara say I’d have to wait?”

The Gnoll frowned. He was scribbling on something on the desk with the air people had of something quite important. Since Lyonette could see the nude sketch he was doing of a Gnoll (not much different from a regular sketch, honestly), she wasn’t impressed. The [Guardsman] covered the paper with one paw and spoke briskly.

“She didn’t say, Miss Human. Watch Captains are very busy individuals. If you have a concern, I can redirect it to a Senior Guardsperson. However, for Watch Captain Zevara…”

“I see.”

“Please have a seat. I will let you know if Watch Captain Zevara wishes to see you. If you’d like, I can schedule you for a formal appointment.”

“And when would that be?”

“Watch Captain Zevara would have to make the determination. But perhaps later this week? Next week?”

Lyonette stared at the Gnoll. He stared back, the picture of helpful unhelpfulness.

“And will she have time for me today if I wait?”

“Maybe? It depends on—”

“Watch Captain Zevara. I see. Thank you.”

Lyonette went back to her seat. The Gnoll sighed in relief, muttered something about crazy Humans, and went back to his artwork. Lyonette sat very still as Apista crawled up the side of her face. A passing Drake, clearly hung over, walked past Lyonette, burping, and did a double-take. He pointed at her, laughed, and Lyonette remembered what she’d told herself.

Don’t be rude. Don’t be old Lyonette.

And then Apista started licking the sweat off the side of Lyonette’s face. Another Gnoll, younger, female, clearly new to her job, walked up. She hesitated.

“Miss Human? Do you know there’s a bee on your face?”

Lyonette looked up at the helpful Gnoll. Then she snapped.



——



Apista’s Faerie Flower induced trip was slowly fading from her system. The bee had stopped believing she could make weird sounds with her mouth like Lyonette did and that the sky was giving her sage advice. She was still muddled however, but she’d found Lyonette, and she could sense the young woman’s emotions quite clearly as she clung to her face.

Exasperation, impatience, worry, guilt, more worry, and then…anger. It came from Lyonette, thorns amid flowers. Apista froze as the [Princess]’ turbulent emotions came to a boiling point in the guard house. The anger was red hot and blossomed like flames. Instinctively, Apista fanned her wings, but a hand caught her before she could fly and present her stinger to everything and everyone in the room as a warning sign.

“Stop.”

The command was mental and verbal. Apista felt it telling her to not fly about and cause a scene and stick to Lyonette. It was a powerful order, as if Lyonette were Apista’s queen of the hive. But the Ashfire Bee’s instincts were awakened by Lyonette’s anger, and Apista wanted to sting something.

And yet…maybe it was the Faerie Flower nectar or being so close to Lyonette. But Apista understood in a flash that this wasn’t a time for her stinger. Or rather, not her stinger. Because someone had kicked Lyonette’s hive, and the young woman was about to unveil her stinger. So the Ashfire bee clung to Lynette’s shoulder as the [Princess] got up, marched over to the Gnoll at the desk, and asked where the toilet was.



——



“Watch Captain Zevara?”

The Drake woman was writing at her desk, sorting through reports when the door opened. There was no knock, and no one announced themselves, as was customary of any [Guard]. Zevara looked up, already scowling, and opened her mouth to roar at whomever it was. She stopped as she saw it wasn’t one of her people but a Human who opened the door and stepped into the room.

“What in the name of scaled rats—who let you in here?”

Zevara rose behind her desk. She recognized Lyonette of course. And she’d decided not to see the girl as soon as her desk-guardsman had told her the Human wanted an appointment. So seeing Lyonette in person made the Watch Captain even unhappier.

“How did you get in here? This is a restricted area!”

No one was supposed to just walk into a Watch Captain’s office. Lyonette shrugged, looking around. She had a huge bee on her shoulder, waving its antennae at Zevara. But if the Drake let something like that slow her down, she’d never have survived Erin.

“I walked upstairs when the person at the desk wasn’t looking. When people on the second floor stopped me, I told them Erin sent me.”

“You what?”

Zevara nearly spat fire in disgust. She was going to smack at least a dozen heads down there. One [Innkeeper] could not do as she pleased! True, if there was anything that would qualify as an emergency, Erin Solstice could probably qualify. But this was ridiculous!

“If someone’s dead or we’re under attack or there’s a disaster about to happen—”

“There’s not. This is personal business.”

“Then get out.”

Lyonette stayed put.

“I was told you were busy. So am I. I won’t take up much of your time.”

Zevara felt heat rising in her chest. She fought down the instinct to flame, but some smoke still escaped as she glared at Lyonette.

“You think you can just walk in here and demand to talk to me?”

“Yes, I do.”

That threw Zevara for a second. She stared at Lyonette. For a moment, she debated shouting for someone to kick the girl out. But she had a feeling that might lead to Erin Solstice marching through her door in an hour. Rather than take that risk, she sat down, steepled her claws together, and glared at Lyonette, wishing she had [Evil Eye] as a Skill.

“Start talking.”

“I’ll have a seat, thank you.”

Lyonette walked forwards and calmly sat in the chair across from Zevara. Again, the Watch Captain blinked. She didn’t have a Skill that allowed her to use aura powers like a Wall Lord, but even without one, she’d mastered her hostile presence skill, as most busy people did. But Lyonette ignored the atmosphere as if it didn’t exist. In fact, she seemed…

Cool. Composed. Her chin was slightly raised, but not so high as to be condescending in any way. Just raised, and her shoulders and back were straight without slouching. She looked Zevara in the eye, and her voice was level despite the fumes coming from Zevara’s mouth. If Zevara had met a junior [Guardswoman] with that level of poise, she would have immediately promoted them on the spot.

Coming from Lyonette, the effect was almost intimidating. Zevara instinctively found herself sitting straighter and composing her thoughts, as if she were talking to another officer or someone she needed to impress, like Ilvriss. She caught herself doing it and stopped. With a growl, Zevara glared at Lyonette.

“What is it?”

“I’m here about my criminal record.”

Zevara hadn’t expected that either. She looked at Lyonette, frowning.

“What record? You mean, your exile and thefts? Taken care of. Or didn’t you notice that you’re strolling about my city without anyone arresting you?”

Maybe she’d heard Lism shouting on Market Street. That damn [Shopkeeper] was agitating hard, but Zevara couldn’t really arrest him after she’d let the people trying to drown him in the bath off. Lyonette nodded coolly.

“I know that. And I also know that General Zel Shivertail interceded on my behalf. You can’t have been happy about that, war hero or not.”

“I was not. But I made an exception for him, and you got your sentence cleared. Good for you. You had connections. What’s your point?”

Zevara glared, reminded of the moment when Zel Shivertail, the Tidebreaker himself, had strode into her office. No one had stopped him, either. Now that was something you remembered all your life. And then Zevara felt the pang as she remembered his funeral. Lyonette shook her head.

“My point is that I broke a law. I was exiled. A crime fitting for the punishment.”

“And you’d like an apology, would you?”

If she did, Zevara would punch the girl. Or…maybe not. That was an Ashfire Bee, wasn’t it? Erin kept one of those as a pet? Zevara eyed the thing. Was it napping? Lyonette leaned forwards, and the Drake looked back at her.

“I’m not asking for anything. In fact, I agree with the sentence. If anything, I think me being allowed into the city was the real problem.”

Thrown and thrown again. Zevara’s jaw opened a bit before she snapped it back shut. She stared at Lyonette. Why was the Human saying this?

“Really. You don’t mind the punishment, despite you nearly dying in the snow?”

It had been a cold day when they thrust the girl out of the gates. And they’d known it was close to a death sentence. But she’d have been dead at the paws of the Gnolls if she’d stayed, jail cell or not. Of that, Zevara was sure. And Lyonette’s gaze didn’t waver.

“There must be law. And that was Drake law, wasn’t it? I survived. And I got a second chance, fairly or not, thanks to Zel Shivertail. I don’t think I’ll get a third.”

There must be law. The words came at Zevara, full of…authority. She actually believed that. Impressed, despite herself, Zevara leaned back in her chair.

“Really? What makes you say that?”

Lyonette blinked once, as if surprised.

“The letter of the law, of course. The punishment for offence in Drake cities differs from Human cities in Izril. And from Terandria. Jail time is customary, but offenders of lesser misdemeanors may pay off their debts and clear their names, if not their records, as though nothing had happened. The fines are steep, but Drakes take a more mercantile approach to punishment.”

She raised one finger as Zevara gaped. Now she sounded like some kind of [Lecturer]. Or…[Historian].

“On the other hand, greater offences are much less tolerated. Depending on the severity, the least of the punishments employed will be exile. Sometimes exile with a hand or tail removed depending on the city. Thereafter, a criminal is marked; if they commit an offence of similar severity in another city, they are put to death.”

Practically the definition of Drake law, at least in general. Zevara had never heard anyone quote it at her, at least, no one who wasn’t a Drake. She stared at Lyonette.

“And you know that how?”

The young woman, no, [Barmaid] shrugged nonchalantly.

“I studied Drake law at one time. I never thought it would be useful. I’m well aware that the second time I break the law, I could be put to death.”

Studied where? But Zevara bit her tongue on the question because she didn’t think she’d get an answer. She studied Lyonette and realized the girl was moving towards a point. So, intrigued, she bit the bait.

“That is the law as described by most city-states. However, the implementation is hardly so strict. If you returned to stealing, I doubt I’d request the death penalty for that. In another city, perhaps. But your exile was also due to the Gnolls’ outrage at the time.”

“I understand that too. I’m not disputing it. But as I said, I was let back into the city without paying any fine. I’d like to redress that error.”

It took Zevara a second to work this out. Then her eyes narrowed.

“You want to pay for the damages you caused?”

“That’s right.”

Lyonette met her eyes. The Watch Captain drummed her claws on the table.

“And just what would you like in return? No, wait—I think I get it now. You want your things back, don’t you?”

She could have just come out and said it. But from the way Lyonette smiled, slightly, with a polite twist to her lips that gave nothing away, Zevara felt like Lyonette had maneuvered her into making the connection. Quite adroitly too.

If she’d just come out and said she wanted to buy her old things, what would Zevara have done? Thrown her out. But if you looked at it like repaying your debts to the city…

“You took the artifacts I had in my possession at the time. That’s standard procedure as part of recouping costs. But I’m fairly certain none of them have worked for you, have they?”

Zevara frowned. She could barely remember the minutiae of her job, but she was organized, so she yanked open a drawer and paged through the Watch’s reports of miscellaneous objects in their possession. She found the piece of parchment, yanked it out, and studied it.

“Those artifacts? Between all the incidents plaguing Liscor, they weren’t exactly on the top of our list, but I recall…ah, yes. They were almost all drained of mana, and the others seemed to be locked, due to keyword or some other nature of the enchantment. We were keeping them to have a Wistram [Mage] look at them when they checked the enchantments on our walls.”

“So you still have them. I’d like to pay my fine and reclaim my items.”

Zevara looked at Lyonette. As she recalled, the girl had owned artifacts that not only gave her the [Invisibility] spell, but had allowed her to throw webs and even [Fireballs] among other things. Those were powerful artifacts.

“Why should I entertain that idea? You barged into my office, you’re a former [Thief], and those artifacts are quite valuable.”

“If you can use them. If not, they’re useless. You’d pay a [Mage] more money than it’s worth to uncover their secrets, believe me. And as I said, there must be law. My exile being commuted aside, if I pay my fine, I should be entitled to the confiscated goods, shouldn’t I?”

Damn. That did make sense. If you agreed with exiling Lyonette, it was fair to let her buy back her things. Zevara scowled. She’d let Lyonette nod to her exile being fair, so she was supposed to nod to this.

“Are you a [Diplomat] of some kind? A [Diplomat]’s child?”

That would explain a lot. A wealthy nobleman’s daughter, far from home. Lyonette blushed slightly.

“No, but I’m pleased you think so. About my possessions—”

“I’m thinking. Hold onto your tail.”

Zevara glared and thought, but only for a moment. She sighed and pulled up some scrap paper. Why was she doing this? Oh yes, to make a headache go away. That was why she did most things these days.

“You’ve made your point. Rudely, barging into my office without permission, I might add. No wonder Erin Solstice hired you. Now, your fines. According to the damage reports—and this is bearing in mind that I’m charging you three times the damage you’ve done—”

“The Drake custom. Two eyes and a tail for an eye, right?”

Zevara almost dropped the quill she was holding. She glanced up at Lyonette. Was this the same [Thief] who’d shouted childish insults at her a few months ago? She nodded.

“Correct. Bearing that in mind, and from what the affected [Shopkeepers] have claimed…I’m going to ignore Lism’s claim here…and the notable absence of a substantive claim for Krshia’s shop, despite what the Gnollish reaction was at the time…forty-seven gold coins.”

Lyonette sucked in her breath. Zevara eyed her.

“Too much?”

“No. Well, it is a high number. I suppose I’m just relieved it’s not more.”

Zevara shrugged.

“You burned some stalls. But those were trade goods, not exactly enchanted artifacts. Even so, you racked up a steep fine. Congratulations. Between your spells from those artifacts and raiding the shops, you managed to beat the previous offender’s record quite handily.”

Lyonette paused.

“Who was the previous offender?”

“The [Necromancer]. Pisces.”

“Of course.”

The young woman sighed. Then she fished some coins out of her belt pouch. Zevara saw the sparkle of gold. Lyonette placed them on the table, eight coins.

“Here you are. That’s how much I can pay right now. I have a salary with Erin, but I can’t afford to pay the entire fine now.”

“Not going to ask the [Innkeeper] to foot the bill?”

That was sarcasm, but to Zevara’s surprise, Lyonette shook her head.

“Her money needs to go to rebuilding the inn and…other things.”

Zevara suppressed the urge to whistle. For a moment, her tail coiled in a knot of jealousy. Erin Solstice could afford to pay nearly fifty gold coins like that? She covered the instinctive emotion with a cough and looked at Lyonette.

“I’ll keep your artifacts impounded until the last coin is paid from your debt. But I will keep them. If you have a payment on your fine, place it at the desk and make them issue you a receipt.”

“Thank you. You’re very generous, Watch Captain.”

Lyonette smiled at Zevara. The Drake eyed her.

“I am, aren’t I? I don’t know how you talked me into that.”

Talking of law and reminding her of the death sentence. That was clever. Zevara felt a twinge of admiration and covered that too with a dark glare.

“The next time you barge into my office, I’ll toss you out the window. Understand?”

“Perfectly. Thank you. I won’t waste your time anymore.”

Lyonette stood, nodded, and walked out of the room. Zevara saw the Ashfire Bee wave its antennae at her. She was gone so quickly Zevara was left staring at her back. The Drake blinked, stared at the eight gold coins, and swept them to the side. Drat. Now she’d have to divide and return the coin among the victims. And file a report.

Still, the encounter hadn’t left a sour taste in Zevara’s mouth, aside from the smoke. Lyonette. Zevara had never recalled the girl having as much presence, or being so…reasonable. Probably because Erin was the one Zevara was used to talking with. This had been almost pleasant. Now, why couldn’t Erin be as easy to deal with? Zevara sighed, returned to her work, then got up and strode downstairs to yell at the Gnoll manning the desk. A good shouting always made her feel better.



——



Victory! Lyonette wanted to punch the air as she left the watch barracks. The Gnoll at the front desk had seen her coming down the stairs and was getting to his feet, but he never got a chance to speak. Zevara had come down the stairs like a storm, and Lyonette had practically skipped out as she gave the Gnoll a tongue-lashing.

On her shoulder, Apista nestled next to Lyonette. Aside from the prickling of her legs, she was pleasant company. Her wings thrummed quietly, and Lyonette felt the bee mirroring her satisfaction.

That was the way to do it. Not by yelling or throwing a tantrum like a child. Be an adult, but be confident, be brave. Copy the examples Lyonette had seen at court, from foreign dignitaries, [Kings] and [Queens], not just her parents.

Back straight, chin up, glide, don’t walk. Act as if you have every right to be on the street and no one else does. No wait—ignore that last bit. Everyone has a right to the street, but you own the street. Something like that. Yes.

The next stop Lyonette made was a quick one. She asked for directions twice, both times from people with pets. The first time a Drake with a cat on a leash, which neither was happy about, the second from a Gnoll who owned a dog. They directed her to a shop filled with noise. Lyonette opened the door and heard a minor commotion in the back.

There was a bell on the counter and cages around the room. Only half of them were in use; a number of cats were lazing in the sunlight in the store front, and there was a dog sniffing something on the ground. Birds in cages who went still the moment Apista came in. The Ashfire Bee fanned her wings, and Lyonette soothed her.

She rang the bell. The shop went insane for a few seconds, and then a Gnoll poked his head out of the back.

“One second, please! Thank you! Everyone else—quiet!”

The shop went silent as the dogs and birds and one lizard all went still. One of the cats looked up and meowed defiantly, but the rest were quiet until the Gnoll came out. He had blood on his paws, and there was whimpering coming from the back. A dog? The Gnoll wiped his paws on his fur and looked at Lyonette. His eyes focused first on the bee on her shoulder and then on her face. His eyes widened with recognition.

“Sorry. I was dealing with a dog who had toothache problems. I had to pull—but I see there is no Mrsha. Is this a business call or social? Miss Lyonette?”

He remembered her. Lyonette smiled.

“Business, Mister Elirr. I wanted to ask for advice. Do you have the time?”

“Of course. I take it has to do with that bee? I recall it from the inn. Quite a fierce one too. I, ah, have a seat. I have a seat somewhere around here…”

The older Gnoll looked about. Lyonette shook her head.

“I won’t impose long. Unless—I am imposing?”

Her conversation with Zevara and Lism’s shouting had reminded her of the injustice she’d done the Gnolls. But Elirr waved that away with a brisk paw.

“You are known to the Gnolls of Liscor. But the debt was paid. Moreover, you are Mrsha’s caretaker, and she is owed a debt. Come in. I can give you—shoo!”

He scared a cat off a stool and offered it to Lyonette. Then he found a tea cup, some tea, and before she knew it, they were sitting and chatting at the counter. The Gnoll grinned at her.

“Pardon the animals, yes? They’re part of the job, but sometimes it seems they’re training me.”

Lyonette smiled politely. Part of her was still humming from her encounter with Zevara. So she acted more like that Lyonette and less like the polite, helpful, personality-less [Barmaid].

“You’re a [Beast Trainer], aren’t you? [Beast Tamers] and [Beast Masters] raise only a few animals at most.”

“Ah, you understand our class.”

“I’ve known some of both. [Falconers], [Kennel Masters], and so on.”

Elirr sniffed.

“Specialists. I deal in pets myself. More variety and challenge that way. But between you and me, I’ve tamed Shield Spiders for a dare and handled Griffin babies, but cats are the worst.”

He raised his voice. A few of the cats lounging at the window looked up as if they understood. Elirr glared at them.

“Yes, you! I don’t care if you’re all intelligent. You’re pests! If you eat another bird by unlocking the cages, I will eat you, understand?”

One of the cats lifted its tail and displayed its rear end. Lyonette laughed with delight as Elirr hurled a pellet of dried dog food at it.

“They can understand you? I had no idea!”

The Gnoll shrugged, but he was smiling, and his tail wagged.

“It depends on the species. You know [Beast Tamers] and such classes improve an animal? Dogs can grow beyond their natural size, or run faster, become tougher—it applies to all animals. All can learn some intelligence, if you have the right Skills. But some animals are naturally smarter.”

“And cats are smarter than dogs?”

“Would you doubt it? Or perhaps cats are more suited to some things. I can train a dog to fetch wounded [Soldiers] from battle or even apply healing potions—so long as the bottles are properly scented for them to pick out. But I can never tell how intelligent the cats get. I think they can understand words, at least some of them. But maybe they just understand tone? They’re clever enough to insult, at least.”

Lyonette looked down at a pure white cat that was twining about her legs. It leapt up onto her lap, clearly demanding a scratch. Apista fanned her wings, and the cat hissed at the bee.

“Enough of that.”

Elirr snagged the cat with one paw, deftly hoisting it up by the neck. The cat yowled, protesting the indignity, but Elirr was soon scratching it behind the ears, and it was purring loudly. Lyonette let Apista crawl down her arm and stroked the bee very carefully with a fingertip. Elirr eyed the bee.

“I have never seen a [Beast Tamer] with an insect before. I’ve heard some can have such creatures, but they live such short lives that it hardly happens.”

Lyonette felt a pang as she thought about how long Apista might live. She hoped Ashfire Bees lived longer than regular ones, however long that was.

“Really? Like what?”

“Oh—a Lizardwoman who kept ants. A colony as snacks as much as entertainment. A Dullahan who raised beetles. Not roaches, you understand. Beetles with big shells and huge horns.”

“Oh! I’ve seen pictures of them. Terandria doesn’t have many.”

“Yes. Hrr. Apparently, some Dullahans like them as pets. But as I say, they aren’t my expertise. Still, I assume you’ve come because this one is acting up?”

Elirr offered a finger to Apista. Lyonette was afraid the Ashfire Bee would show her stinger, but there was something about the Gnoll that appealed to the bee, because she walked up Elirr’s arm, fanning her wings. The Gnoll smiled.

“Ah, Ashfire Bees. I know something of them. Deadly and immune to smoke or fire which most would use to harvest honey. A terror for adventurers to fight—as many monsters are. But their honey is sweetest yet. I wondered how Krshia came by any honey from their hive. It made a lovely snack, and the cats enjoyed it with their milk. I understand more, now.”

Lyonette nodded.

“I got Apista from that hive. I have a trick—but I’ve raised her and not done much with her until now. Today she found me in the city. She must have slipped out the door. I don’t know how I should raise her. Any tips?”

Elirr puzzled over that for a second.

“Hm. You mean, how you should level or how to make her obey?”

Lyonette didn’t want to mention she had consolidated her [Beast Tamer] class into [Worldly Princess]. She hesitated.

“Both. I mean, she obeys just fine most of the time. But what should I do with her?”

The Gnoll frowned.

“Do? Nothing. If she is a pet, she is a pet. Feed her. Love her. That is all. But if she is not, then you have a problem. I see it sometimes with those who buy animals I have bred to war and keep them as pets. Animals have a nature to which they are inclined. It may be Apista seeks to realize that nature—or that she is simply uncontrollable.”

“Uncontrollable?”

Elirr nodded.

“Some animals are beyond [Beast Tamers] or even [Beast Masters] unless you are high enough level. Some…beyond even the highest-leveled, I suspect. I do not know. A [Beast Tamer] over Level 40 is exceptionally rare. I can think of a Named Adventurer who is so high, but no higher. So functionally, yes, there are animals that cannot be tamed. I could barely tame a Griffin, and only to the most basic of social functions, for instance. And insects may be too foreign for some training. Like Crelers, for instance.”

“Someone’s tried to train a Creler?”

Lyonette was appalled. Elirr nodded.

“Fools do anything, and there was a point. Imagine one of those in war? But it was futile, as I’m sure you can imagine. The first of the [Beast Tamers] who tried it enjoyed some success. Hrr. But it was short lived. He was found two months later in his home, dead. The Creler had devoured half of him and laid eggs in the rest. More tea?”

Lyonette hesitated, then saw the twinkle in Elirr’s eye. So she gave him a polite smile.

“Please.”

The Gnoll guffawed and filled her cup.

“Ah, but you are different than I thought you’d be! As befits one who raised Mrsha. Again and again I must change my thinking. But where was I? Crelers. Even the [Beast Master] who took the case found the Crelers were simply too instinctual, too…predatory to handle. The most he could do was direct them like a weapon, and as they grew older, their destructive instincts only increased. They are all hunger with little else to guide them. And the adults? The Gnoll who tried it told me she sensed a dark intelligence from it. Too intelligent. She suspected it was gaining too much from her Skills and had it destroyed at once. Terrible things.”

“So, a [Beast Master] can truly make an animal intelligent.”

Elirr raised a finger.

“To a point. But only beasts, I think. A truly intelligent creature, say, a Unicorn, if one existed, might not qualify as a beast but a person. And some animals grow truly smart, but I have never met one I thought I could carry on a conversation with. They were only able to grasp a bit of nuance, learn to perform small tasks. If they had more potential, they would not be animals, yes?”

“True. So is Apista a pet or something I can’t control?”

Elirr studied the Ashfire Bee.

“She has not stung me, which is a positive. Have you any Skills with her?”

“Uh…[Crimson Stinger] and [Lesser Bond].”

“Ah. Then I would not worry. The [Beast Master] who took the Creler could not bond with it. A bond denotes trust between master and animal. If you have it, she will obey most things, even if she does not understand. What she becomes depends on you.”

That reassured Lyonette. She smiled, thanked Elirr, and traded for his cat while he stroked Apista’s back and checked her over. She left a few minutes later as Elirr bade her farewell. He declined to accept payment, but left her a bit of advice.

“If you wish to tame this bee, I might suggest giving it a purpose, even if that purpose is only to be loved. I raise the dogs to be either companions or war hounds. Either suits, depending on the nature of the dog, and they can be shaped by lessons and Skills. But they must have purpose, or to what reason do we tame them?”

That was true. Lyonette looked at Apista. She felt guilty, remembering how she left the bee to its devices or to play with Mrsha so often. If she should carry Apista around or have her on a leash of some kind—both ideas were fairly ridiculous—or she needed to let the bee…be a bee. And how did you do that? Lyonette didn’t know, but she resolved to find out.



——



Before she left the city, Lyonette made one last stop, and this one was happy chance. She’d been intending to wait for Pawn to come by, although she feared he was still in mourning, but she saw a gathering of Drakes and a few Gnolls at an intersection and stopped to see what was happening. Then she spotted a familiar burly Drake and an Antinium, distinct because he had only two arms and a slimmer frame, as well as twin silvery swords, at the center of the gathering.

“Excuse me. Pardon me. I have business with that Antinium.”

Lyonette tried to force her way towards Klbkch, but she was rebuffed. A [Princess]’ haughtiness got her pretty far with Zevara, but there are some who generate their own natural egos that could resist even a [King]’s presence. She ran up against one such individual now in the form of an older Drake with slightly faded orange scales.

“We all have business with that Antinium, young Human. So wait your turn!”

She shook a claw in Lyonette’s face. The [Princess] backed up a step, and Apista fanned her wings. Lyonette soothed the bee and looked at the Drake.

“My apologies, Miss…?”

The Drake harrumphed.

“Elissa Slipscal, Miss. Not Slipscale—that’s a fault many Humans make! Now, if you don’t mind? I’m protesting to Senior Guardsman Klbkch about the rent.”

She turned back to Klbkch, who was writing and listening to the other Drakes and Gnolls. Relc hesitated, then waved at Lyonette when he saw her. She waved back, then directed her attention to the discussion. Predictably, Elissa Slipscal’s was the loudest voice.

“The rent’s gone up another four coppers this week! Four coppers! On top of last month’s rise? It’s nearly doubled what it was when I first moved here! Honest Drakes can’t afford to keep the rent rising, but did that [Landlord] listen?”

“I would assume the answer is no, Miss Slipscal.”

Klbkch’s voice was polite and matter-of-fact. Relc rolled his eyes, but Elissa looked pleased at Klbkch’s response. It gave her more time to talk.

“And you are correct! He wouldn’t hear of a reasonable argument! And we’re not the only block with issues, you may believe it! Rent’s going up across the city! What will the Watch do about it?”

Klbkch folded the bit of parchment and addressed the crowd. Lyonette watched, partially admiring Klbkch’s poise. From one trained leader—at least, leader in theory—to another, she could see that Klbkch had a presence similar to Zevara’s. It calmed the crowd and made them hang on his words, for all he was an Antinium.

“I believe this issue is one of predictable cause. Liscor is a city of finite size due to the static walls. It may be possible for the buildings to expand upwards or down, but that would require action on the part of the property owners. Until then, given the influx of adventurers and other visitors, space is at a premium.”

“A premium that comes at our expense! How will you fix this, Senior Guardsman?”

Elissa raised her voice. Klbkch nodded slowly.

“I can only relay your concerns to Watch Captain Zevara, but I will forward the issue to [Strategist] Olesm as a matter of city-wide concern. The issue of housing may be taken up by the Council, but the Watch will address any exorbitant rent issues.”

Amazingly, that seemed to satisfy the crowd. It wouldn’t have flown in a Terandrian city no matter who said it, but things were different here. One of the Gnolls, dressed with a skullcap and minimal clothing besides, bared his teeth.

“Will you arrest the [Landlord], Senior Guardsman? I would enjoy watching that, yes?”

“I was instructed that doing so was technically out of our jurisdiction last time we did it. But I will defer to Senior Guardsman Relc’s judgment on the case.”

Relc, who’d been scratching his tail, looked up. The crowd glanced at him, at Klbkch, and murmured approval. So did Lyonette. Relc grinned.

“Don’t worry. We’ll talk sense to any greedy [Landlords]. Or I’ll trip, right Klb old buddy, huh?”

He elbowed Klbkch. The Antinium looked at his partner.

“Please stop elbowing me. I am aware of subtext.”

The crowd began to disperse, but to Lyonette’s chagrin, more Drakes and Gnolls wanted to talk to Klbkch. He was popular! This time, Lyonette moved through the queue. Without Elissa to stop her, she made it to Klbkch. The Antinium turned to Lyonette.

“Ah. Miss Lyonette. How may I help you?”

“Hello, Klbkch. I was hoping I could talk to you about the inn—”

“Oh! How’s Erin doing?”

Relc bared his teeth in a grin. Lyonette smiled.

“Good. She’s…good. You saw her, didn’t you?”

“Saw? Oh yeah. I’m glad she’s still doing well. I would have visited, but Klb’s been busy, and I—”

Killed Garen Redfang. People were still talking about that. Lyonette looked up at Relc. He was apparently famous for his past as the Gecko of Liscor, a soldier who’d fought in any number of battles in Liscor’s army. But all she could think of was Relc drinking, swearing, and causing trouble. As a retired war hero probably would act.

“I’m sure she’d…like to see you.”

“Really?”

“Maybe not.”

Relc’s face fell. Lyonette hurried to reassure him.

“Give her time.”

“Hey, I can’t blame her. I’ll keep it chill. Maybe pop by with Klb someday. Until then I can drink in the city—until the kid catches me.”

Relc winced. Klbkch ignored his partner as he turned to Lyonette.

“Relc’s familial problems aside—”

“Hey!”

“—what was it you wished to discuss, Miss Lyonette? The restoration of the inn? I have bookmarked a time for Belgrade to lead some Workers in reconstructing the third floor and Bird’s tower later this week.”

“You have? I’m very grateful, Klbkch, but I was actually hoping to modify the inn. I know the Antinium are busy—”

But not with what. Pawn, the one day he’d come to the inn to speak with Erin and sit quietly while Lyonette held his hand, had just said that every Worker and Soldier was involved in some kind of project. Klbkch’s face revealed nothing of what that might be, so Lyonette hurried on.

“—but I’d really love even a small team of Workers to get started. I have designs?”

She hopefully dug around in her belt pouch and showed Klbkch some of her sketches. Relc peered over Klbkch’s shoulder.

“Ooh. That looks good! I think. Why’s it look all funny?”

“Because they are a [Builder]’s diagrams. Not a sketch. I believe I should also call you a fool. Fool.”

Klbkch studied the designs Lyonette had worked up. He looked up and nodded slowly.

“I am impressed, Miss Lyonette. These drawings are slightly inaccurate, but I understand what you intend by them. Were you trained as a [Builder] of some kind?”

The look he gave Lyonette said plainly that he knew she was not. She smiled sweetly at him. Klbkch was far harder to deal with than Zevara. Lyonette knew how to deal with an officer like Zevara. But Klbkch? Unreadable, different culture. No guessing at his true emotions.

“I read a few schematics in the past. What do you think? Can it be done?”

Klbkch studied the diagram.

“Hmm. Extensive landscaping. And stone? I am offering Erin a discount on Antinium services, but even the cost of purchasing the raw materials will be somewhat expensive, Miss Lyonette. Does the inn have the funds?”

“I…think it does? But I was also hoping that I could pay you and negotiate repayment depending on the costs.”

Lyonette was banking on Klbkch’s relationship with Erin. The Antinium hesitated, and then his mandibles opened. He made a soft clicking sound almost like a sigh.

“I believe that would be acceptable. Still, you are correct that the Hive is busy. The Painted Antinium will resume patrols, but deployment of Workers outside the city will require either Pawn, Belgrade, or Anand to supervise. I will direct Pawn to meet with you tomorrow if he is…recovered. Will that be suitable?”

“Very much so. Thank you, Klbkch.”

He nodded to her.

“No thanks are needed. I am merely performing my duty as a [Guardsman]…and as a Revalantor of the Hive, apparently.”

Lyonette smiled and stepped back. She heard Klbkch call out to the crowd.

“Next? I am on duty for two more hours. If anyone has concerns, you may address them to me or Senior Guardsman Relc—”

Everyone flooded around Klbkch, ignoring Relc. The Drake fished out a pouch of buttery popcorn and chortled to himself, content to eat the greasy fast food that had partially invaded Liscor. Relc was left alone as anxious people came to ask questions.

Lyonette smiled as she saw him bending to address a little Gnoll who’d lost something. She heard another quiet sigh as she departed.



——



The bug-thing was gone. Only when Lyonette was far away did Apista stop trying to dig herself deeper into Lyonette’s pockets. She was sure, sure that the bug-thing had noticed her.

It had been a fun ride with Lyonette up till now. Of course, Apista hadn’t understood much of what Lyonette had done, but she’d appreciated the emotions filtering through to her. From anger and then ice-cold calculation and confidence at the barracks, to triumph and pleasant feelings with the big furry thing in the shop.

Apista had liked the furry thing. And she didn’t know why. And then more of…well, it wasn’t a positive emotion or a negative one. Lyonette sometimes just became focused, like Apista would when she was concentrating on a difficult task, like navigating over a bunch of drunk people in the hive-inn. No bad emotions, in short, which Apista liked.

Of course, Apista had never gotten the answer to the question she’d asked in her drug-induced haze, but the bee could barely remember what had happened then. The nectar of the Faerie Flowers was potent but wore off leaving vague memories at best. Honestly, Apista didn’t know what kept her coming back—

Aside from the fact that the flowers were very magical. The effects aside, Apista felt something in her telling her that the flowers had what she needed, just like how a part of her told her when she needed sugar or water.

The same part of her had reacted to the bug-thing. The big, brown-black bug. Apista didn’t like it. She didn’t like them whenever they entered the inn, in numbers or just alone. She was afraid of them. In the same way a mouse feared a cat or cows feared Wyverns. One was developed to eat the other, and Apista’s stinger would do little against Klbkch’s carapace.

Lyonette left the city with Apista clinging to her head, watching for the bug in case it followed her. It did not, but the bee was wary. She could sense Lyonette’s thoughts going concentrated again and heard the young woman murmuring to herself as she headed back to her inn.

Only, she didn’t take the magical door. She poked her head into the inn for a second to reprimand the scaly thing, who was ‘very sorry, I tried to catch her, Lyonette’, and then collect a little basket she’d prepared this morning. And a sledge? Then Lyonette walked back out the door and exited Liscor’s gates, pulling the sledge behind her. She went up the mostly muddy hilltops, muttering to herself.

“A busy day. But if I can start saving gold coins—a thousand gold will pay for a lot of the renovations, but I can’t use it for my fine. Can I? Well, if I earn a few hundred gold coins—and how am I supposed to do that? More plays, I suppose. And Erin had some ideas on how to improve the inn…”

It was all noise to the bee. Apista fanned her wings, enjoying being out. She was never out. She was always in the inn. And while that had food and the white thing and was usually safe from bug-things, the outdoors called to her. She would have taken wing and flown about, looking for flowers blooming in the mud, until she sensed something from Lyonette that made her hesitate.

Fear. Not just surprise or anxiety, but a jolt of true fear. That made Apista’s stinger come out. She cast about on Lyonette’s head, but there was nothing that was dangerous around her. Not even Rock Crabs. And yet, Lyonette was afraid as she marched across the muddy terrain. She had her stinger with her, a steel sword sheathed in leather. And that basket.

Apista had no nose. But she had antennae, and that was better than any nose you could ask for. She could detect a very familiar scent coming from the basket. But something else was growing in the air, wafting towards Apista. It confused the bee, because it smelled like herself.

And then Apista spotted the cave where Lyonette was heading towards, and she sensed them there. And they sensed her.



——



It had been a long time since Lyonette gathered Ashfire Bee honey. A long time. No, only a month and a bit, right? The rains and floodwaters had stopped her, but it had barely been a month, hadn’t it? Why, just forty days ago she’d been in this cave—okay, maybe fifty days. Sixty? Sixty days, maybe, and she’d been at the mouth of this cave, ready to harvest honey and jelly and Ashfire Bees like it was nothing.

Only, it wasn’t nothing. Lyonette knew that. She could pretend it was easy, that she’d gotten used to it—and she had in a way—but the tension never left. As Lyonette prepared the small fire and the Faerie Flowers she’d gathered, she felt her hands shaking.

She made them stop, but the fluttering in her stomach wasn’t so easy to control. She was going to raid an Ashfire Bee nest for honey. And that wasn’t something you said lightly.

Ashfire Bees. Apista was clinging to Lyonette’s head, the size of two hands joined together. A little bit bigger, actually. The average Ashfire Bee was ‘only’ as big as a hand, or a hand and a half if you had smaller hands like Lyonette. That made them the biggest, nastiest, and deadliest bee, wasp, or hornet that Lyonette had ever encountered.

Their stingers wouldn’t just hurt, they could put out an eye forever. And the venom they pumped could kill you quite, quite dead. There were thousands in a hive. Lyonette had seen them. Each time she gassed the hive, she’d cut into it and pull out a wall of honey, larvae, and see the bees, sleeping, fallen on the floor…

The hive filled the back of the cave the Ashfire Bees laired in. It was deadly to trespass there, regardless if you were an animal, monster, or adventurer. Lyonette imagined that even bears wouldn’t be able to steal Ashfire Bee honey. Okay, maybe a magical version of a bear like a Mossbear. But even so.

There was a…thrumming to the cave as Lyonette built the fire of dry wood and kindling. That made her heart skip several beats. The hive was awake. Last time she’d done this, hadn’t it been quiet? They’d been hibernating.

“But they’re probably not active yet, right? And if they are, so what? The smoke gets them even on the wing. It’s fine. Just light the fire and fan the smoke, Lyonette. Fine.”

The [Princess] whispered to herself. She remembered her first failed attempt with just fire and not the soporific Faerie Flowers. Bees, hurtling themselves into the snow like the ‘bullets’ that Erin had described in her stories. The buzzing—them killing a Rock Crab. Imagine how fast she’d die if they—

Lyonette realized she’d stopped building the fire. She shook herself. She could always back out. No, she’d told Erin she’d do this, and she would. She could! More importantly, Ashfire Bee honey was worth a lot of money! She could sell this, claim some of it as her own money, and get her artifacts back. Imagine what she could do with them? Zevara had no idea what they could really do. Lyonette had wasted half their charges just getting to Liscor. If she had even the Cloak of Balshadow—

Control your fear. Be brave. Be a new Lyonette. You started it here when you raided the hive the first time. You can do it.

Lyonette’s breathing slowed. She took a few breaths, raised her chin, and put the Faerie Flowers on the fire. She felt at her head. Apista was…buzzing. Her wings beat rapidly as Lyonette lifted her down. She felt excited. But Lyonette mentally ordered her still. She didn’t want to risk scooping Apista up. She should have left her behind, honestly, but the Ashfire Bee’s presence reassured Lyonette. As if she knew what she was doing with Apista around.

“Okay. I can do this. Apista, you stay put, understand? Firewood, flowers…stay right there. I’m going in. And I’m going to come out with jars and jars of honey and bees. Pawn will be happy about that.”

Yes, think of Pawn. Lyonette put the two huge glass jars on the ground next to her. They were slightly muddy from the sledge. How would she drag this in the grass? No—if the hive became active, it would be dangerous even to get near. This might be the last time until the winter came again.

Lyonette wished that didn’t make her feel so relieved. But she took the emotion anyways to give her confidence. Slowly, carefully, she lit one of Octavia’s matches and tossed it on the kindling. It lit the dry wood and shavings at once.

Fire blossomed. Quickly, Lyonette stepped back and grabbed the long-handled fan she used. She began wafting the flames and smoke as the fire started devouring the wood—and the Faerie Flowers Lyonette had placed on the firewood.

You could use dry flowers, but Lyonette had found that fresh flowers actually worked better in some ways. It took longer for whatever was in them to burn, so the fire had more time to build. By the time they released their effects, Lyonette was fanning hard, blowing the smoke into the cave.

And holding her breath. Apista hovered well back from the cave as well. Lyonette knew how strong the Faerie Flowers were if you were close to them, and she had placed the fire inside the cave to avoid the wind blowing the smoke in her face. Now, that had been an unpleasant moment, waking up in the snow half-frozen to death.

But this time, the wind was stopped by the cave, and Lyonette was fanning hard. The smoke entered the cave, and she heard the thrumming turn to a sudden roar. The bees had detected the smoke.

Normally, smoke calmed a hive. Bees would go into flight mode and begin devouring the honey, half-blinded by the smoke and confused, preparing to flee their hive if the fire enveloped the fragile fortress they’d built. But not so for Ashfire Bees. They were practically immune to fire; Lyonette had once caught Apista fanning her wings in the fireplace. And when they detected flames near their hive, they went out and smothered them.

They were coming. This was the pants-wetting moment of the ordeal. The moment when the buzzing filled the cave and Lyonette sensed movement coming at her. She fanned desperately and saw the first bee shoot around the bend in the cave. It was an Ashfire Bee, not as big as Apista and stinger black instead of crimson, but huge, a giant among bees, poised for the attack—

It dropped and hit the floor with a small bump of sound. Lyonette breathed out slowly as the buzzing abruptly went out. There was more pattering of noise as the worker bees flying to investigate dropped, already asleep. Still, Lyonette kept fanning until the fire was mostly ashes. Only then did she grab her jars, punch the air in relief, and step into the cave.

“Bees first. Two big jars of bees, and two jars of honey.”

Lyonette muttered to herself as she grabbed a pair of tongs and began picking up unconscious bees. She’d enter the hive after that, slice her way in and grab as much honey as possible. And some larvae, why not? Klbkch had asked for some, and Pawn apparently considered it a delicacy.

Or was that too cruel to Apista? No, wait, wasn’t all of this cruel to Apista? Lyonette would feed her some royal jelly to make up for it tonight. Or—could she raise another bee? A sister for Apista? Or a brother? Wait, what gender was Apista anyways? Lyonette assumed she was female, but was there a definitive way of checking? Maybe Erin would—

The relieved thoughts flooding Lyonette’s head suddenly came to a stop. She turned her head slowly. Because she’d heard the sound.

A distant…buzzing. Not from inside the cave, but from behind her. Lyonette froze. And suddenly, she realized the error in her thoughts.

Normally, it would work. Her Faerie Flower smoke plan, that was. In the winter, the bees would be in the hive, staying put and disinclined to move. They might smell the smoke and be roused to action, but by the time they came out, the soporific magical effect would put them out. But that was assuming they were all in the hive. Only, this was spring and the bees weren’t all in the hive, were they?

She’d thought that since none were around the entrance, the hive hadn’t begun looking yet. And the Floodplains were so muddy and there weren’t any blooms—but these were Ashfire Bees. Twenty miles was the area they could patrol around their hive. And if need be? They could go farther.

And like bees, they could tell when their home was in danger. Maybe it was a warning pheromone, or maybe their queen’s telepathic link. Either way, the bees were returning. All of them.

Lyonette dropped the tongs. She dropped the glass jar. She ran for the exit. She was halfway out when the first Ashfire Bee dropped out of the sky, buzzing, stinger raised.

“Oh my—”

Lyonette flung herself down into the mud, rolling down the incline leading up to the cave. But the bee wasn’t aimed at her. It was attacking the fire! The dying embers and ashes of the Faerie Flower scattered as the bee struck it, knocking fiery sparks into the air. More followed. Lyonette, eyes wide, heart thumping, scrambled to her feet and ran. The bees ignored her, at least for the first moment.

They were attacking the remains of the fire, dispersing the smoke as they swarmed around it, fanning their wings. Lyonette snatched up her basket and ran. But she knew she’d never make it.

“Apista!”

She screamed, but her beloved pet was lost among the other bees. Nearly a hundred had come back and were circling the fire. They flew into the hive, probably to investigate that it was unharmed. Then they came out with a vengeance. And they went straight for Lyonette.

She was running. Head down, arms pumping, each stride hitting the muddy earth, taking her down the huge hill. A perfect run. Even the mud wasn’t slowing her down, and Lyonette didn’t slip as it spattered around her. But it was no good. Even a [Flawless Attempt] couldn’t save her.

A fact of bees. A honeybee from Erin’s world averaged about twelve miles per hour when laden with honey and pollen after a trip foraging. A bee unladen could go twenty miles per hour. Hornets, wasps, could reach twenty-five miles per hour to hunt their slower prey. The maximum speed of a Human sprinting, again, based on Humans from Erin’s world, was twenty-eight miles per hour. The fastest person in that world could hit twenty-eight miles per hour for ten seconds. Perhaps longer. But twenty-eight miles per hour was it.

And Ashfire Bees could do thirty.

They caught her as she was ascending the hill. Lyonette turned. She flung the Tripvine bag, but it exploded harmlessly in the air. Vines, tangling and green, burst everywhere, trying to coil around their target. But the Ashfire Bees just flew around them. They shot at Lyonette. She screamed.

“No!”

That was it. Nothing else. Just—no. It could not end like this. Not today. Not when everything was so…normal. She raised her hands, turning, trying to find a place to dive. A pool of mud, maybe. Some scrap of cover that might shield her from the stings.

But there was nothing. No snow. No cover. Lyonette turned as the first bee aimed at her face. She saw its stinger, black, pointed straight at her left cheek—

And then she saw another bee, larger, angrier, and oh so gloriously familiar hurtle out of the sky and smack the first bee with its abdomen. The Ashfire Bee worker tumbled out of the air, confused by the attack. The other bees flew around Lyonette, a terrifying whirlwind, but the bee defending Lyonette had all their attention. Hers too.

Apista, crimson stinger extended, buzzed as she flew around Lyonette, crashing into bees headed too close to the young woman. She was emitting a sound with her wings Lyonette could hear even amid the droning of others. It sounded louder, and the bee herself looked larger and more intimidating than any of the others. They backed away as Apista flew at them.

“Apista.”

The bee’s mind was open to Lyonette. She was angry. Angry, afraid—for Lyonette?—but mostly angry. She saw the other bees as attacking Lyonette, her hive, and she was warding them off. Her stinger jabbed at another bee, and it flew back, clearly intimidated by this foreign bee.

Lyonette looked around. The Ashfire workers were hesitating. This wasn’t going according to plan. They had one modus operandi, which was: find intruder, sting intruder. But this other bee was…different. It called to a different instinct in them, and so they hesitated. Neither Lyonette nor Apista realized why they weren’t attacking until they heard another buzz, coming from the cave entrance. Only, if the buzzing had been a primordial thrumming in the ears before with the hundred or so workers, this sounded like thunder.

“Oh, Calanfer eternal. My kingdom witness.”

Black and yellow streamed out of the cave. A torrent. A hurricane of bodies. It spiraled up into the sky, like a tendril, an arm made of thousands of bodies. And it spiraled down towards her, a hive’s worth of bees. Drones, workers, and leading them, a shape larger than the rest.

A very large, very angry bee. The queen of the Ashfire Bees shot out of the hive, followed by her throng. They buzzed around her as she stopped in the air, looking down at Lyonette and Apista. No, that wasn’t right. Lyonette was practically a speck. The Ashfire Queen had only one target.

Apista.

Yes, the bee was no queen. She had no hive. But she had been raised on royal jelly. She was of queens, even if she wasn’t one in truth. And though bees were social, though they were all part of a hive, nothing about that rationale extended to queens. When two queens met, after birth in the same hive or in the wild, only one could be tolerated.

The queen gave no warning. She issued no challenge—or maybe it was Apista who was the challenger. Either way, she dove, and her hive flew in the air as she lanced towards Apista, stinger extended.

“Apista!”

Lyonette saw her beloved pet rise, stinger extended likewise. She darted at the queen, and for a moment, they were tangled, stinging, missing each other, stingers glancing off abdomens as they tried to inject one another with poison. Then the queen twisted, and Apista went flying.

She was smaller than the queen Ashfire bee. She was of queen’s stock, but Lyonette was no worker who knew instinctively what to give Apista and when. The smaller bee was smacked by the queen’s wings and narrowly avoided a stinger to the face. Her stinger was as large, but she had never fought before. The open air was new to Apista, and the queen had weight, experience, and her hive on her side.

The other bees were bombing Apista, ramming into her as the queen tried to make the fatal sting. They didn’t sting her directly, but they rammed Apista as the smaller bee tried to fly away, gain distance on the queen. Battered, buffeted, Apista was lost in the maelstrom. Lyonette couldn’t see her, but she could feel Apista’s panic and fear.

The [Princess] stared up at the swarm. She could have run. She could have fled as Apista fought for her life. But she forgot to. In that moment, as the queen dove at Apista, out of sight, Lyonette felt something building in her. Rising. She was a poor [Princess]. A weak one. She had no home. She had run from home. But here was her pet. Her friend.

Her subject. Lyonette felt the emotion rise in her, fury and rage and possessiveness. And she pointed and screamed.

“Apista!”

The word blew the bees apart above her. Did they go flying, pushed by something, or did they push themselves? Lyonette only knew that they flew apart, leaving two bees in the sky directly above her head. Apista and the queen. The queen reacted to Lyonette’s voice, tumbling and then righting herself in the air. She pointed her stinger down at Lyonette, and the young woman suddenly felt the air around her change. The bees darted forwards. Apista, high above, sensed the danger and dove—but there was one of her and hundreds, thousands of the enemy. Lyonette sensed Apista’s fear change to a burning fury. And then—

Apista burst into flames. One second she was diving, a bee of gold and black, and the next she was on fire. The bees around Lyonette scattered, as much from shock as anything else. Apista dove past Lyonette, her wings trailing flames. She was…shooting it out of her body somehow! Like a jet’s engine—something Lyonette had no concept of until Erin had drawn her a picture—some small holes in Apista’s body were jetting flames. The bee blasted past Lyonette, and the girl felt the heat of her passing.

Lyonette had only seen her do that once before. To fight off a bird. But now Apista was wreathed in fire. Lyonette gasped as she flew rings around her, burning trails in her vision. She blinked in the afterimages, turning, perhaps to run now Apista had scared the bees off. Then she saw another bloom of light.

Above her, the queen bee burst into flame. Lyonette’s head snapped up as the queen blazed fire and descended towards Apista, a burning meteor aimed for Apista. That would have been enough to reignite the fear in Lyonette’s heart. Enough. But then she saw the bees forming behind the queen. Like a huge mass, a swarm like she’d seen smaller bees form, but larger, with the queen at its heart. They shot after Apista, who was flying, burning, across the Floodplains. And then, without warning, with a sudden burst of heat and light that scorched Lyonette even where she stood, they all burst into flame.



——



The walls of Liscor were always patrolled by at least forty members of the Watch, ten for each cardinal direction of the wall, and at least one pair of Senior Guardsmen. That was the minimum requirement for any Drake city at any time. Currently, there were two hundred [Guardsmen] on the walls of Liscor at any time, although Zevara had still left the oversight of the walls in the care of Senior Guardsman Jeiss and Senior Guardswoman Beilmark, the Gnoll-Drake pair known throughout the city.

It wasn’t a bad job now that Liscor’s siege and the dungeon threat were over. In fact, it beat walking the streets some days. You got to stand around and even make idle chatter. With so many [Guards] about, you could relax because you had dozens of eyes in every direction.

That was what Jeiss, the Drake, enjoyed. What he didn’t enjoy were stupid rookies who’d just been promoted coming up to him and asking questions.

“Senior Guardsman Jeiss?”

“What?”

The Drake opened one eye irritably. He saw a younger Drake gulp. Light pink scales—oh dear, he must have been humiliated growing up. Jeiss would have recognized that coloration, so he guessed the Drake was one of the new recruits. Zevara wanted at least two hundred more [Guardsmen] in the city by the fall, and she was pushing the Council to give her a budget for double that. After what he’d seen, Jeiss didn’t blame her.

It didn’t mean he had to like the rookies, though. They were always asking stupid questions. Like, ‘How should we stand?’ ‘What if we see some Shield Spiders, do we call someone?’ ‘How come that big Drake gets to slack off?’ Stuff like that. Jeiss wished they’d just leave him alone. When he was a junior [Guardsman], he’d known to keep his mouth shut.

“What?”

He snapped at the young Drake. The junior [Guardsman] gulped again. He had a spear and Watch-issued leathers, but he wore them like a bad dress.

“It’s just—I saw something, and I was wondering if I should report—”

“Is it monsters?”

“I, uh, don’t think so. It’s this bright—”

“Is it a spell? Is it aimed at the city?”

“I don’t know!”

“You don’t know if it’s a spell? Why don’t you ask your other [Guardsmen] what they think?”

“Well, they don’t know either. So they said I should ask you, because—”

Jeiss was about to argue more when a paw reached out and poked him in the side. Hard. Senior Guardswoman Beilmark, who was reading an installment of Olesm’s latest chess magazine—he’d just come out with a new edition after a long hiatus—looked up and scowled at him.

“Just go and see, Jeiss.”

“Aw, come on.”

Jeiss was trying to relax. Senior Guardsmen got to sit, and he’d been on his claws all day. But Beilmark just poked him again. It was a Gnoll thing, and Jeiss had gotten used to it—mostly.

“Go.”

“I had to go the last three times!”

“He’s a Drake. We agreed you handle Drakes, I handle Gnolls.”

“That was before I remembered how many Drakes serve compared to Gnolls.”

Jeiss grumbled. He got to his feet and glared at the young, pinkish Drake.

“Lead on. And I swear, if this is another spell coming from that damned inn or someone on the road—”

His tongue froze in his mouth as he spotted the ball of flame blasting across the Floodplains. It was huge, larger than any fireball. The junior [Guard] gulped yet again when he saw it.

“Uh—I didn’t see that. I only saw two flames—”

“Beilmark! Get over here! Guardsmen, ready up!”

Jeiss turned and roared, scaring the junior guardsman. Beilmark’s magazine went flying as she leapt to her feet. Across the wall, other [Guards] looked up. Some of them grabbed their weapons and turned their attention towards Jeiss. The smarter, older ones directed the rookies to look ahead. You never knew what was coming from behind.

“What is it?”

The Drake just pointed the fireball out to his partner. Beilmark swore, a growling Gnoll epithet.

“Is that…a [Fireball] spell? It’s way too large to be one. Some other kind of spell?”

“It can’t be! Look how long it’s lasting! And it’s…turning? Ever see a [Fireball] do that?”

It was true. The ball of flame looked like it was following something. Jeiss’ eyes narrowed. It was hard to see from all the light, but it looked like a tiny speck of fire was detached from the fireball. Every time it turned or changed direction, the fireball changed to follow it.

“What in the name of the Walled Cities is that?”

And then the little flame darted up towards the walls. Jeiss’ eyes widened. He turned and shouted.

“Incoming! Brace, brace!”

The [Guards] on the walls raised their shields and hunkered beneath the battlements. The pink Drake was frozen until Beilmark dragged him down. Jeiss hunkered behind the stone, but his head was half-risen. He saw the fireball flying at him, then turning upwards to follow that speck of fire. And then it shot past the walls in a blast of heat. Jeiss saw what was inside the fireball.

“Bees?”

Thousands of them. They were swarming, following one bee as it shot across the city. The angry bees’ wings were like thunder, but the terrifying thing was the flames each one was emitting. Jeiss stared as they buzzed past a rooftop. Thank the Ancestors that they weren’t dropping sparks. Then he saw them blast towards him again and ducked. The fireball zoomed back over the wall and down across the floodplains. And that little bee was still flying.

For a moment after they’d gone, Jeiss could only stare. Then he got to his feet and shouted.

“Aw, hells. Ashfire Bees! Everyone off the walls! Remember your drills! Full body armor only! Get an adventuring team!”

Beilmark was already shouting the same. The [Guards] evacuated the walls. Their armor and training was little good against bees. Someone was hitting the bell, warning the city. It wasn’t an attack warning, but it was a ‘get indoors’ warning. Jeiss waited, heart pounding, hoping Zevara or Olesm or Ilvriss would get here soon. But his eyes kept turning back to the little bee flying ahead of the others. And he thought of a Human girl with a bee on her shoulder he’d seen in the barracks that morning.

“Beilmark. You don’t think—”

Her teeth were bared.

“—that this is an Erin Solstice event? Yes! I do! Why can we not have one day when something doesn’t threaten Liscor?”

Jeiss hesitated.

“I was going to say, do you think the weirdness is spreading? And second—is this a threat? Or is this the coolest race you’ve ever seen in your life?”

Beilmark and the junior [Guardsman] looked at him in silence. Beilmark stared at the fireball, at the little bee, and then reached into her belt pouch.

“Five silver says the little bee escapes.”

“No way. Five silver says they get her and we get buzzed.”

“Um. Two silver on the Human doing something to stop the bees?”

Both Senior Guardsmen looked at the pinkish junior [Guard]. He wavered at their stares as Jeiss and Beilmark exchanged glances. Then Jeiss slapped him on the back.

“Welcome to the Watch, kid. You’re going to go far here.”

And below them, Apista flew.



——



Up. Down, left, right. Corkscrew through the air. Catch the wind and dive. So close to the earth she could feel the mud hardening as her flames cooked the ground. Up again. Over a hill, past a Rock Crab which hid under its shell. Up, up, spiraling—and then down.

Behind her flew the swarm. Thunderous. Apista could feel the other queen’s rage. Intruder! She screamed it in the ways bees understood things. Intruder! Another queen was not fit to live.

But Apista was no queen. Not that it mattered. Her hive was threatened. Lyonette was in danger. So she flew, burning. And the bees flew after her.

Up, around—the wind buffeted Apista, and she slowed. In that second, the swarm nearly caught her. They dove at her, but she fell downwards. She didn’t know the sky like they did. The changing wind, the way the air interacted with other things, flowing, it was all new to Apista. She was at a disadvantage there.

But in other ways, she was ahead. Because bees loved to fly. Surely, they did. And Apista was flying. For the first time, her wings were open. And the flames issuing from her body gave her more speed. She flew, feeling alive. Fierce. And with each passing second, she found she was flying faster, faster. The flames poured from her body, bright and hot. And behind her, the other bees were faltering.

The queen was tiring. Lyonette stared up with open mouth. But it was true. The queen of the Ashfire Bees was running low on flames. You could see the fire around her fading, and the workers had already run out of steam. Their flames went out one by one as they exhausted whatever fuel supply they had. Mana. The bees had to have mana! And they’d just run dry.

But Apista and the queen still had juice. And it seemed that Apista had far more mana than the foreign queen did. For her flame was burning fiercely. Even more than she had at the start, or so it seemed to Lyonette.

Hotter and brighter than any other bee. Apista left a trail of fire in the sky. Lyonette could feel the magic she was burning up, but the bee had deep reservoirs.

“How? How could she…”

But Lyonette knew the answer before she’d even begun. She remembered Apista lazing in her flower bed box, sipping the nectar of flowers, a gift of faeries.

Magical flowers. Days, months of drinking Faerie Flower nectar and living in Erin’s inn. It all added up. And as Apista soared, Lyonette felt her joy. Sheer, pure joy. She flew up, and the swarm turned too slowly. Apista lost them on the next turn. Now she was flying alone, a streak of fire in the sky.

They saw her. The adventurers on the walls, the betting [Guards], Drassi from the inn. The Drake opened the door to let Mrsha play, took one look at the bees flying about, and dragged Mrsha inside and closed the door. But Lyonette stood in the mud, staring up at Apista and laughing.

Alone. Nothing could catch her. Apista flew up and then circled back. The swarm was hovering in the air, tired, uncertain. Apista aimed straight at their center, an arrow made of fire.

She charged the queen, and the workers and drones scattered before her. The queen backed up, but she was tired and afraid of Apista’s vitality. Lyonette watched, her heart squeezing.

Was Apista about to take the hive? She felt like that was what the bee was doing. That was how bees worked, wasn’t it? There had to be a queen. And when one queen died, another would rise.

But Apista?

The bee flew at the queen. Stingers extended, they clashed twice. Lyonette felt Apista driving for the kill. Felt, and felt something in her protest.

“No. Apista—”

Above her, the little bee broke off the assault. Suddenly, she wasn’t stabbing at the tired queen, but flying in a circle. The queen, bewildered, hesitated, and then began to circle as well. Lyonette stared up, confused.

All the bees were doing it now. Apista, still flaming, circled the others. The workers and drones shielded their queen. They darted at Apista, but she flew at them. And then—what was it?

Only a thing of insects. Only Klbkch could understand it. Standing on the walls, the Senior Guardsmen opened his mandibles.

“Ah. Of course.”

Everyone stared at him. The Antinium looked at them. Senior Guardsman Jeiss, Senior Guardswoman Beilmark, Zevara, Relc.

“What? Is it not obvious?”

“No. What happened?”

The bees were dispersing. Flying back towards their cave. Zevara watched them anxiously, nervous of a threat immune to her fiery breath. Klbkch spoke calmly.

“I believe she just claimed her territory.”

“What? Her?”

Jeiss poked a claw at the little bee. Apista was descending, flying back towards Lyonette. Klbkch nodded.

“I am not an expert on Ashfire Bees. But I believe that was a queen’s battle turned into a hive’s dispute. And it appears she won.”

The people on the walls stared down at Lyonette. At Apista, flames gone out. Jeiss let out a long sigh. There was something incredible out there. A thousand Ashfire Bees. And one little bee had chased them away. He almost smiled. Then he felt a jab at his side.

“Damn it, Beilmark!”

“Pay up.”



——



She flew down from the sky. The young woman reached up to her, laughing, shaking with relief. She sensed Apista’s emotions. Exhausted, hungry, but triumphant. Lyonette raised Apista up in shaking hands and kissed the little bee repeatedly.

“You are the bravest, most wonderful—”

Apista fanned her wings, still warm, but cooling. She seemed to be venting heat—or else it didn’t cook her from the inside. Actually, maybe the flames were her way of cooling? Lyonette didn’t care. She cuddled the bee, hugged her, and then went home.

Of course, there were people to talk to. There always were. And Mrsha had to come up with a new name for ‘bee’ in honor of Apista. But the upshot of it all was that there was a large contract on the Ashfire Bee nest that none of the adventurers really wanted to fulfill. In the end, Pisces volunteered to use a Bone Horror, and Ceria and Falene were willing to try an ice spell.

The destruction of a semi-innocent bee nest aside, Lyonette had only one other eventful moment in the day. And that was realizing she’d forgotten to get Erin’s eggs! But she had a brilliant moment. So, as noon fell and Krshia was closing up her stall, Lism was shouting about how another Human had nearly killed everyone by bees as said bee flew down from the sky.

Everyone in the market ducked. But the bee was alone, and Krshia, spotting the tiny slip of parchment, reached up and, with a very careful paw, let Apista drop the scrap into her palm. She unrolled the slip of parchment and read it.



Dear Krshia, please send three dozen eggs with the next shipment. Chicken, please. Apista will deliver messages from now on if convenient. Of course, I’ll come to chat. Mrsha says hello.

–Lyonette



And Apista was as happy as a bee could be.



——



A few last things. That night, Erin and Numbtongue came back from their outings. Erin was waving her arms and exclaiming over the people she’d met in Pallass.

“You’ll never believe what a day I had! Okay, first, I went through into Pallass, and guess what? I met this couple that—”

Meanwhile, Numbtongue had wandered deep into the mountains and brought back some souvenirs. He uncorked a bottle that made Typhenous’ eyes pop, and Lyonette listened to both with a wide smile. Apista dozed in the fireplace, listening to the logs crackle beneath her. She paid no attention to what was said. After all, she was a bee.

That night, as everyone went to bed, Apista woke up when Lyonette was asleep with Mrsha in her arms. She crawled out of her cotton basket, fanned her wings, and noticed it was dark. Well, that was usually a call to sleep, but something made Apista fly out of Lyonette’s opened window. The [Princess] had left it open because she was sure Apista could protect herself and that the bee wouldn’t fly away now.

And that was true. But she hadn’t realized that Apista might fly just to fly regardless. And while a bee was blind at night, a bee that could make fire was not.

Apista’s glow lit up the sky. An owl, swooping past it, decided that it didn’t like hot food and flew away. Apista flew higher, past some Razorbeaks who eyed the tasty insect wreathed in flames and pined for desserts served cold. Higher and higher, until the inn was small below her.

Below her lay Liscor. And the inn. The inn was a small thing compared to the city, but Apista knew it as her hive. As home. And in her head, she felt Lyonette’s thoughts about the inn, complex, foreign, but just a part of Apista as her body. For, after all, she and Lyonette were connected. Apista was more than just a bee. More than a pet. She had part of Lyonette in her. The girl had shaped her, as all good owners do their pets. As all pets their masters. It wasn’t necessarily intentional. Sometimes, you could shape or be shaped just by loving.

This wasn’t actually a story about a bee. Because bees had no stories. It was really a story about a [Princess]. A young woman who was no [Queen]. But no ordinary worker, no normal girl either.

It was a strange thing to be a princess. Frightening. Because you had no home. Not one that was truly your own. But you couldn’t hide either. You had to live with that, searching for a way to be complete.

And that was what Lyonette was doing. Apista saw it. Below her, the inn changed. It transformed, turning into something Lyonette was dreaming up. She might not have intended it. Or perhaps she had—Klbkch had seen it. But not the whole truth. Only Apista, flying high above, saw it rising from the earth.

After all, it was the nature of [Princesses] and of bees. Even when they were alone, their instincts drove them to build a home. To grow into queens and [Queens]. And so that was what Lyonette was doing. Doing what all [Princesses] did, in their heads, in their hearts. In reality.

They built castles.

Apista looked down and saw it. A fortress of stone, sitting on a hill three times as large. Not a castle in the strictest medieval sense. This one lacked the height of a citadel, and it was inviting, as much an inn as a fortress. But it was nothing like the inn. It was larger, grander, the ramparts of dirt leading up to it able to be defended in case of attack. A castle made of an inn. A tower for Bird to sit in. A garden blooming with yellow flowers. A place to bathe, a room filled with books—

An inn made of dreams. And Apista flew down towards it, staring at the dream. And she knew Lyonette was building it. Her hive. Slowly, out of gold and stone and people. It was not the hive Apista would have chosen. But it was a hive nonetheless.

And Apista could not wait to call it home. So the bee flew back in the window and slept. The bee and the [Princess] were happy. After all, it was their story. And if it wasn’t, they’d take it. For surely, surely.

One day, they would be [Queens].



[Worldly Princess Level 17!]

[Skill – Apista: Enhanced Intelligence obtained!]

[Skill – Apista: Agile Flier obtained!]

[Skill – Imperial Aura obtained!]





6.09


“Okay. I’m going to Pallass.”

Erin said it for the sixth time that morning. Lyonette looked at her. The young woman was feeding Mrsha eggs as the Gnoll grabbed for the fork, trying to feed herself thank-you-very-much. It was morning in Erin’s inn, and Erin Solstice had decided. She was going to Pallass. Today was the day.

“Are you sure?”

The determination filling Erin’s chest wavered. The young woman hesitated. She paused, fork full of egg, and hesitated.

“Yeah. I mean, I said I would. Why? Do you think I shouldn’t?”

Lyonette gave her a long look.

“No. I was just asking.”

“Oh.”

Erin exhaled slowly. She looked around the table. Four people sat there, including herself. Erin, Lyonette, Mrsha, and Numbtongue. The Goblin was examining his palm, poking the red, newly-healed skin.

“How’s the hand, Numbtongue?”

The Hobgoblin looked up. He moved to shrug, then reconsidered.

“Fine. Thank you.”

The act of verbally replying was clearly new to him. But he’d done it rather than give a taciturn shrug as he might have before. Erin gave Numbtongue an encouraging smile and then looked at his right hand. This morning, Numbtongue had come down with a nasty sting in his palm, courtesy of Apista. Apparently, he’d grabbed her and she’d stung him.

“Good, good. Well. You’re going into the mountains, and you’ve got your mana stone…”

This time, Numbtongue did reply nonverbally with a roll of the eyes. He plucked the mana stone from his pocket and showed Erin for the eighth time that morning. She knew she deserved that, but she did worry. Numbtongue had been building his strength since emerging from the basement, and he’d announced his intention to go mining in the mountains. It had something to do with the memories of the dead Goblin in his head. He wanted to find gemstones or something up there, and Erin couldn’t forbid him. Well, she wanted to, but he’d insisted.

“Great. Awesome. Just remember…”

“Use the magic door. It will be set to my mana stone. Adventurers in the inn I can call for help. Bring potions. Be very careful.”

Numbtongue sighed and ticked off Erin’s points on his fingers, effectively shutting her up. While he was doing it, Mrsha leaned over and forked a good portion of his eggs up with her fork. The Hobgoblin’s head snapped up, and Mrsha froze. She stared at him, and he stared at her, eggy fork in hand. Then Mrsha stuffed it into her face.

“Mrsha, you are incorrigible.”

Erin smiled at the white Gnoll. Happily, Mrsha wagged her tail and raised her hands. She drew a smile on her face to match the one already there and then did a curious thing. She made two fists of her paws and placed one on the top of the other in quick succession.

“Now, what does that mean?”

Lyonette frowned. So did Erin. Mrsha had recently begun creating her own sign language, an activity that had warmed Erin’s heart to no end. She’d encouraged the Gnoll child and tried to learn every word Mrsha came up with. And she thought she knew them all. But this?

“Mrsha, what’s that word mea—”

Erin began to ask, but to her astonishment, the little Gnoll wasn’t looking at her, but Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin was scowling at her. He clearly knew what the word meant. He replied back with an expressive glare. Erin and Lyonette stared at him, and then Lyonette cleared her throat.

“Numbtongue? What did Mrsha just say?”

The Hobgoblin blinked. He stared at them and then shrugged.

“Goblin sign. Sort of. It means…I’m better than you. Ha ha. Ha.”

He looked at Mrsha. The Gnoll gave Numbtongue a big grin. Erin’s jaw dropped in astonishment. Mrsha had used a Goblin sign? But then she saw Numbtongue’s lips twitch. And Mrsha had just stolen food from him, hadn’t she? She’d grown so much more at ease around the Hobgoblin of late. After the battle. What a mixed blessing that was.

Filled with confusing thoughts, Erin ignored Lyonette exclaiming over the new words and getting Mrsha to teach it to her directly. Her thoughts drifted. Today she was going to Pallass. Yes. Because…well, because she had no other reason. Anyone could have talked Erin out of it. A hole in the roof, a runaway Rock Crab, Octavia’s shop lighting on fire…if Erin had a reason, she wouldn’t go. But there was no reason, and no one to stop her. Her inn was empty.

Oh, not completely empty. The Horns and Halfseekers would be downstairs in a bit, and some other adventuring teams, most notably the Silver Swords and Griffon Hunt, would be along shortly. They were bringing the magic door north, and the Silver Swords were talking about finding a new adventure every day. But besides them and a few other teams, no one came to Erin’s inn. Especially not her friends.

She hadn’t gone back to Liscor after her dramatic day with Numbtongue. Erin hadn’t really felt up to it, and none of her old regulars were coming in. Selys, Olesm, Ilvriss…even the Antinium were staying away. Well, the Antinium were probably busy doing Antinium things. But the others?

Erin had stopped blocking them from coming to her inn. But she still didn’t know if she wanted to see them. Some of them, like Selys, Erin was only too glad to see. Krshia was part of that list, but Olesm? Relc?

Relc. Erin closed her eyes. She’d heard about him defending Embria and killing Garen Redfang. Him aside—she didn’t know what to say to Olesm if she saw him on the street. She’d seen him before, in the city, but she hadn’t spoken a word to him. And she didn’t know if, when she saw his face, if she saw Zevara now, what she’d…

…

So, Pallass. It felt like a year since Erin had last entered the city, and then she’d only had, what, an hour or so of being led around? Ilvriss had suggested she see the Walled Cities, and so Erin had decided she would. By herself to begin with. Lyonette was managing the inn, Mrsha was a bit too excitable for Erin’s tastes in a foreign city, and…

She looked at Numbtongue. The Goblin was still flexing his hand that had been stung as he deftly snatched some bacon from Mrsha’s plate with the other. The Gnoll looked up, eyes wide as the Goblin casually bit the hot bacon and gave her a challenging look. That was clearly payback for the eggs. The two stared at each other, and then both began to fight over the last of Mrsha’s bacon.

It brought a smile to Erin’s face to see. Yes, she’d go alone. And if she could, she’d take the others to Pallass. Although her door still had that problem where it couldn’t take more than two or three people through before needing to be recharged. But maybe Erin would stay in Pallass someday. Or visit the other Walled Cities. But to do that, Erin had to visit Pallass. The city that had given Liscor little aid, that hadn’t done anything. While Goblins had died…

Lyonette didn’t notice Erin turning away from the table and walking back. She was busy calling out to Apista, who was obliviously feeding on the Faerie Flowers. Erin stared at the open windows, at Liscor in the distance.

“Time to go away for a bit.”

That was all she said. And that was the only reason, really. Erin bade farewell to the others. Lyonette had charge of the inn, Mrsha was waving to Moore with a greasy paw as he came downstairs, and Numbtongue was stretching, preparing for his journey into the mountains. Erin stopped at the magic door and adjusted the little dial on it. The mana stones moved until the yellow stone for Pallass was fixed and shining on the door.

“Well. Here I go. Lyonette—”

“Just come back if you need anything. I’ll be in and out. And I’ll check on the Players of Celum for you. It’s all sorted, Erin.”

The young woman smiled at her. Erin nodded. She looked at Numbtongue. The Hobgoblin rolled his eyes and held up the mana stone again, but he nodded to her.

“See you tonight.”

Mrsha waved, a universal sign. Erin turned. She saw the adventurers looking up at her. Familiar faces. She saw dead Goblins sitting around a table with Numbtongue. Even now, two weeks afterwards. It wasn’t something that went away. And Erin feared, she hoped, it never would. But it still hurt. Too much.

Ceria was opening her mouth and hesitating. But Erin didn’t want to be here. So she made up her mind. She opened her mouth and spoke brightly.

“I’m going to Pallass for a bit! Maybe to look around. I’ll see you all later!”

And then she opened the door and stepped into Pallass, the City of Inventions.



——



The sun shone down on Pallass. It was always sunny when Erin visited Pallass. Perhaps it was the location of the door. But the walls, tall as they were, only obstructed part of Erin’s view. And while Liscor was likewise encircled by high mountains that blocked the sun, Pallass felt more open. Erin stared up at the blue and cloudy sky as she walked through the door.

Into another city. Onto smooth slabs of stone. Even into different air; it felt fresher, more open than Erin’s inn air. The sun touched Erin’s skin. She heard background noise envelop her. Hundreds of voices. She stared around the street and saw Drakes and Gnolls and even a few Humans on the street! Erin’s spirits lifted. She took two steps—

And a Drake with a spear stepped forwards and pointed it at her gut. Erin froze. The Drake was wearing a steel breastplate and leather armor underneath. On his arms was a bright yellow shield, but Erin didn’t get a chance to investigate further. She backed up as the Drake [Guardsman] with the spear aimed it at her stomach. He glared at her, body tense as another Drake appeared behind Erin with a sword.

“Human! Don’t move a muscle! Your arrival was not cleared with Pallass.”

“What? Cleared? I just walked through here!”

Erin’s hands shot up. The Drake glared at her and then looked at his companion.

“Some kind of mistake with that teleporting door?”

“Maybe. Hell of a mistake, though. Think we should frisk and send to lockup or check with the inn?”

Erin heard the Drake behind her growl. She saw several Drakes on the street turn to stare at her. The Drake with the spear hesitated.

“Let’s call it in. First we make a report and then—hey, I said hands up!”

Erin had lowered her hands. She glared at the Drake, eyed the very pointy spear, and then slapped it. Or tried to. The spear barely budged as Erin tried to knock it away from her stomach.

“Stop pointing that at me. What have I done wrong? I’m allowed to go to Pallass! Anyone is! That’s the point of a magic door!”

“You weren’t cleared. We have a list of allowed visitors per day, and you aren’t on it.”

Erin’s face went blank. Then she remembered. Hadn’t Zevara said…? She sighed.

“No one uses that stupid thing. I never did. Look, I own the magic door. That means I can go through, okay?”

She pointed at the door behind her. The two Drakes eyed her dubiously.

“Anyone could say that.”

“Anyone? Hello? I’m the [Innkeeper]! Don’t you recognize me? Erin? Erin Solstice? Okay, what about this? I had Hawk the Courier put it back just three days ago.”

“So? Everyone knows that.”

Erin stared at the [Guardsman] with the spear. She exhaled slowly and then decided to inhale before the tip of the spear tickled her stomach.

“Well—well, okay. But I am who I say I am! Anyone can tell you! In Liscor, I mean. You can open that door and ask—well, okay, it’s dead because someone else is using it, but in a bit it’ll probably be—if you want proof, get…Watch Captain Venim! He knows me.”

The two Drakes hesitated. But Erin had remembered the one name of someone she knew in Pallass. Watch Captain Venim. They exchanged a glance, and the one breathing down Erin’s neck muttered.

“I mean, we’re calling this in, right? Couldn’t hurt.”

“Right. I’ll, uh—get a Street Runner?”

“Think it’s worth the paperwork?”

Apparently, the spear-wielding Drake didn’t think it was. He hesitated, gave Erin another look—she was giving him a dirty glare—and then lowered his spear and legged it down the street at a brisk pace. Erin turned to face the other [Guardsman]. He had either sheathed his sword or hadn’t drawn it to begin with.

“I don’t have to keep raising my hands, do I?”

He had yellow scales, which went well with the patch on his armor. He was wearing all leather and shrugged.

“I don’t think so. But stay where you are.”

Erin turned to look at the Drakes, some of whom were pointing at her. This wasn’t how she had envisioned returning to Pallass, but, she had to admit, it was consistent with last time. She folded her arms grumpily.

“And if I don’t?”

“I’ll be forced to draw this sword and stab you.”

Erin eyed the sword in its sheath. She decided to stay put. She stood there with the Drake as the passersby generally lost interest. All, that was, except for a couple of Drakes, young, in their teens, who came up.

“Guardsman, who’s the Human? Did she come through from Liscor?”

The Drake [Guardsman] looked embarrassed.

“Watch business. Move along.”

“Aw. But she is from Liscor, right? Are people coming through?”

“Just me for now.”

Erin turned to the Drakes. They blinked at her, looking her up and down as if she was an oddity. But Erin had seen otherHumans on the street. Wearing armor, sure, but…the [Guardsman] with the sword sighed.

“Ladies…”

“Oh, alright. Spoilsport. Who’re you, Miss Human?”

“Erin!”

Erin called after them. One of the Drakes turned. She was tall and had red and black scales running in stripes down her body.

“I’m Frasi! This is Oza! Don’t get arrested, Miss Erin! Welcome to Pallass!”

“Thanks! I’ll try! And I’ve been here before!”

Erin waved at their backs. The Drake [Guardsman] made a grumbling sound.

“Please keep quiet.”

“Is that an order?”

She heard him sigh. But no more Drakes approached as now Erin and the Drake were just standing awkwardly by the door. Erin looked about.

The street was wide and flat. Unnaturally so to Erin, who was used to Liscor’s cobblestones and dirt roads. But Pallass’ floors were smooth, made of huge squares of stone, like those Erin would see in modern cities. The stone was a light beige, and houses and other buildings lined the open street.

A few things set Pallass apart from Liscor. The first were the walls. They stretched up above the roofs of the houses, four walls in four directions. They were huge and filled part of the sky, a solid mass of stone. Solid, but not plain. Because Erin could see, far off in the distance, another ‘floor’ of buildings built into the side of Pallass. That was what she remembered.

Pallass was a Walled City, but it more closely resembled an inverted pyramid of sorts. It had long, flat floors that stretched around the walls. The top floors were narrowest, still wide enough to hold a massive amount of room, but the floors grew in size before reaching the bottom. Connecting each floor, which all held vast populations of shops, homes, and so on, were the stairs. Pallass had four grand stairways that ran from the bottom of the city to the top. But what was also unique were—

“There!”

Erin pointed. The Drake, who’d been leaning against the door she’d come in, started. He stared suspiciously at Erin and where she pointed. She was following a small shape with her finger. He squinted at it.

“What? The lifting platforms? Oh.”

Erin stared at the elevator as it carried a group of Drakes and Gnolls upwards. It stopped at a floor above her, and she watched as the people inside got out. Yes, elevators. Pallass had them, at least, a strange magical version of them. She could see the pulleys moving as the elevator descended. Apparently, Pallass fueled their elevators not with steam or some other device, but with mana stones. It was for that reason and others that it was given its nickname.

The City of Invention.

“More like the City of Jerks. Hey, is your Watch Captain Venim here yet? I’ve got places to be.”

Erin turned and glared at the Drake. He glared back, clearly not impressed by her.

“Watch Captain Venim is a busy Drake. And he’s one of the Watch Captains who serves Pallass. If he’s not available, then you’ll have to…”

“There he is! Over here!”

Erin cut him off and waved at a familiar Drake making his way through the crowd. Watch Captain Venim wasn’t taller than the other Drakes, and his scales were a fairly common grass green, but he wore bright yellow armor that stood out, and he had the businesslike stride that carried him through the crowd. The spear-Drake was following him.

“Watch Captain!”

The Drake snapped to attention and saluted Venim, as if he hadn’t been slouching against the door for the last ten minutes. Erin glared triumphantly at the Drake with the spear. She waved at Venim, who was eying her as if uncertain why she was here.

“Hey! It’s Watch Captain Venim, right? It’s me! Erin Solstice? You remember me, right? Can you tell these jerks I can come here?”

Rather than reply immediately to her, Venim turned to the two Drakes.

“At ease, [Guardsmen]. This Human is the proprietor of the inn in question. Give us a moment to talk, and I’ll sort this out.”

“Yes, Watch Captain.”

Erin was slightly disappointed he didn’t immediately reprimand the Drakes. Both saluted and stood back a few paces. She looked at Venim, half-relieved, half-annoyed still.

“Sorry about this. I totally forgot about the daily lists thing.”

Venim coughed. He looked much as Erin remembered—straight-backed, rather formal. Sort of like a male Zevara, in other words. She didn’t know him too well, but in her mind, he was one of the ‘good’ Drakes from Pallass. Although she really only knew one other person—that jerk Gnoll [Senator].

“It was an unfortunate mistake, Miss Solstice. We neglected to ask for the daily lists from Liscor after the door was reinstated. In truth, we’d mostly overlooked it, what with travel being nonexistent between Liscor and Pallass…”

“Because of the Goblin Lord’s army. And the door being stolen. Yeah.”

“Yes. That.”

Venim studied his feet. Erin remembered that the fact that Pallass hadn’t sent a massive army through the door was a sore point with Liscor.

“So. I don’t have a list, but it’s my door and I thought I’d come through. I can go now, right?”

“Not just yet. Miss Solstice—”

“Erin.”

“—Miss Erin, why did you come through to Pallass? Is this a business trip? A social visit or…?”

“Um. I thought I’d look around. I don’t think I’ll stay overnight. I’ll just wander about, head on back through before it gets dark. Maybe see the sights. It’s a big city, right?”

“Wander about?”

Venim stared at Erin. She nodded.

“Yeah. Why?”

She heard a strangled noise from the spear-Drake, who she’d already classified as ‘angry and uptight’ in her head. He glared at her.

“You can’t just wander through that door! It’s a gateway between Liscor and Pallass, not—”

“Guardsman Kel.”

Venim raised a hand, and the Drake fell silent. Erin stared at Kel challengingly.

“It’s my door. I can go through when I want. And I can send through anyone I want. That’s the deal.”

“If they’re approved. You are supposed to clear a list with Watch Captain Zevara—”

“Next time I’ll write my name on that list, happy? And I might bring over my [Barmaid]. And her, uh, adopted Gnoll kid. Is that a problem?”

Venim stared at Erin. She stared back. She could tell he clearly wanted to snap at her, but he didn’t. Instead, he took a deep breath.

“We’ll send a [Message] to Liscor and work out an approved list of names. For now, let’s consider this an unfortunate misunderstanding. You’re free to go, Miss Solstice.”

“Thanks.”

Erin smiled at Venim. He tried to smile back, but clearly his face wasn’t in it. Erin took two steps to the side as all three Drakes watched her and then spun casually back to face Venim.

“Oh, and I might be coming through with a Goblin someday. Got a problem with that?”

The Watch Captain was turning to face the two Drakes, both of whom looked uneasy, as if they feared a reprimand. His head snapped back around so fast Erin heard something crick.

“What did you just say?”

Erin stared innocently at Venim. Inside, her heart was pounding. So much for slipping that by him.

“Uh. A Goblin. He’s a friend and an employee at my inn. And I think he’d like to see Pallass, so…”

“A Goblin.”

Venim’s voice was flat and, suddenly, without patience. Erin nodded slowly.

“That’s right. A Hobgoblin, to be exact. His name’s—”

“You mean, a monster.”

Erin’s breath caught. She looked at Venim.

“No. I mean a Goblin. He’s allowed in Liscor.”

“What?”

The chorus came from three Drakes and a passing Gnoll woman. She looked around as all three Drakes stared at her. Venim covered his eyes.

“Miss—”

“Excuse me! Didn’t mean to pry, yes?”

The Gnoll hurried down the street. Venim raised a hand as if to stop her and then whirled on Erin.

“A Goblin is not allowed in a Drake city, Miss Solstice!”

She folded her arms.

“Why not? He’s an adventurer, and he has a pass from Wall Lord Ilvriss, the Guildmistress of the Adventurer’s Guild, several Gold-rank team leaders, and Pisces—”

Venim stepped forwards, cutting the rest of Erin’s words off. He pointed at the door, meeting Erin’s eyes with a contained glare.

“I’m not sure what Watch Captain Zevara is thinking. But let me make this clear, Miss Solstice. If a Goblin enters the city, we will kill it. That is standing Pallassian law. Is that understood? As for entering and leaving, please fill out the correct paperwork from now on. We will begin asking for the daily lists in the morning.”

Erin froze. Venim glared at her. She said nothing. She knew he was expecting something. After the silence dragged on too long, Venim stepped back. He still looked angry, but she caught a brief feeling of awkwardness from him. She wasn’t sure if that was her Skill or just her learning to read Drakes. It was the slight curl in the end of his tail.

“I am pleased that Liscor stays standing. I understand you had a great deal to do with that, and for that, Pallass’ City Watch offers you our thanks. But the law is the law, Miss Solstice. It must be incorruptible. Please, understand me. Your…Goblin worker is free to work in your inn, but it must never step foot into Pallass. I trust you understand that. And I do apologize for the inconvenience.”

So saying, he held out his claw for her to shake. Erin stared at Venim. Then she stared at his extended claw. Hand. Erin reached out slowly and then, instead of shaking his hand, poked a finger at Venim’s snout. He recoiled.

“Oh yeah? Well, I’ve got two words for you, buddy. ‘No way.’”

The two Drakes standing beside Venim stirred as Erin treated them all to a glare. She pointed at the door.

“This isn’t over. I’ll be back. And if you ever hurt Numbtongue—that’s the name of the ‘monster’ by the way—I will kick your scaly butt. Have a nice day.”

She turned and began to stomp down the street. Venim was staring at her back. She heard an exclamation from the spear Drake, Kel.

“You can’t just threaten—”

Erin pushed past him, ignoring his spear. He uttered a hiss, but she was walking fast down the street. Kel, Venim, and the third Drake whose name no one had mentioned—it was Nevvim—stood, staring at Erin’s back as she stalked away from them.

“Watch Captain Venim? That was clearly a threat. Do you want us to go after her and arrest her?”

Nevvim spoke quietly. Watch Captain Venim stared at Erin’s back. She was staring at a passing Dullahan. He felt a moment of heat, the famed Drakeish temper rising within him, and struggled to contain it.

For a second, Watch Captain Venim hesitated. And the chances of him having a good day teetered on the brink of chaos. After a moment, the Drake slowly shook his head.

“Leave her. Pallass owes that Human some kind of debt, and Liscor too. She’s not likely to cause trouble, and if she persists in this Goblin thing—I’ll send a [Message] to Watch Captain Zevara asking about it.”

He shook his head and turned away, banishing Erin from his immediate list of concerns. He was allowed to, and his chances of a good day skyrocketed from there. If he had arrested Erin, things might have turned out far more eventful for him. But that was a story for another timeline. Erin Solstice walked away from the [Guards] and into Pallass.

“Lousy, no good, stupid jerks—”

She stomped for about a minute, and then her feet began to hurt. Erin stopped in the street, turned to look back, and realized she was in Pallass again. Drakes and Gnolls walked past her, moving around her and giving her odd looks.

Noise. And sight. Erin was overwhelmed by both for a moment. It felt like she was standing in any big city, watching pedestrians go past her. Some were city-dwellers, going to work, others clearly tourists from the way they pointed and stopped to stare at things. Gnolls, Drakes, a few Garuda, and then a passing Human.

She was wearing armor. Erin stared at her as she passed. Strange. She’d thought few Humans lived south of Liscor. Well, a Walled City had to have some Humans, surely? This woman was wearing armor. So maybe she was an adventurer? It comforted Erin to think she wasn’t the only Human in the city. Then she heard a shout.

“Street Runner, coming through! Watch your tails!”

Erin turned her head. She saw a Drake with bright white-pink scales running down the left side of the street, near to Erin. She was young, probably fifteen if she’d been Human. She had a full satchel pressed against her chest, and she was running at near full-tilt. Erin saw people stepping casually aside and then realized she was in the way.

“Whoops!”

Erin leapt back as the Street Runner dashed past her. The Drake twisted to avoid Erin and keep her satchel from striking her.

“Sorry, Miss! Street Runner on delivery!”

She was already a dozen feet away. Erin stared at her back and then looked around. She’d seen Street Runners in Liscor before, but never been close to being run over by one. She wondered where the Runner was going. Then she wondered where she was going. She hadn’t come here with a plan.

Someone interrupted Erin’s musings. A loud, flat voice called out to her.

“You, Human. You need knives.”

Erin turned. A man was standing in front of a small shop. It was more of a stall built into a building, like Krshia’s stall, but permanent. He was one of the [Shopkeepers] selling his wares on the street. Only, he was Human.

And wearing armor. Erin blinked as she saw the man was wearing a full-body set of iron armor. She assumed it was iron; it wasn’t bright enough to match her image of steel. But it had been polished quite finely. She wondered why he was wearing it though—wasn’t it hot? Still, she had to admit he was impressive. The man gestured to Erin. She looked around and then took a few steps closer.

“Me? Did you say I need a knife?”

Erin wasn’t in the mood to shop, but the novelty of meeting another Human was enough to bring her over. The man nodded. He had a very dour, expressionless face. And his voice was just as flat.

“You’re looking for a sharp knife. Everyone needs knives.”

The strange, armored man said this as if it were indisputable fact. Erin opened her mouth, thought, and had to agree that he had a point.

“I could use a knife for my kitchen, maybe. Er—are you selling them?”

The man nodded slowly.

“That’s right. I sell knives. Sharpest, finest, crafted by Maughin himself. You could skin a Wyvern with the blades. You looking for a cooking knife? Something that can cut through tough materials? A skinning knife? All-purpose?”

“Uh, actually, I’ve got a really sharp knife. Believe me, it can cut through…hands…really well. But I suppose I could browse…what’s it like living here? As a fellow Human, I mean?”

Erin edged closer to the shop. The man gave her a very odd look.

“I wouldn’t know about that.”

“Oh. You’re new here too? I just came to Pallass. Hi. Erin Solstice.”

The man stared at Erin. He held out his hand. It was gauntleted and unpleasant to shake, but Erin had resolved to make that her fourth question going into this conversation. He eyed Erin.

“Lorent. I’ve lived here all my life. A Pallassian native.”

“But you said—er. Never mind. So, uh, knives. You sell just knives?”

Lorent nodded and then shrugged. He performed the nod somewhat awkwardly, while the shrug was natural.

“That’s correct. I’m a [Sharpener]. I take knives and give them an edge that will last. Beyond what the metal is shaped for. You buy my knives, you get a lifetime guarantee—bring them here and I’ll give them their edge again.”

“Hey, I get that! And that is a good deal!”

Something like a smile appeared on Lorent’s face.

“Ah. You understand. Not everyone does. But you see these knives? Watch.”

He showed Erin a few of the knives on his shop counter. All looked wickedly sharp, and they had a little logo emblazoned on the hilt. A knife and grindstone.

“Custom-made. And watch.”

Lorent picked up a knife and pointed to something else on the table. A block of wood. It was anything but square; it looked like someone had cut a bunch of pieces off with a razor. It was sitting next to a basket with a pillow in it. Erin blinked at the basket, wondering if it was to hold the knives, and then jumped as Lorent took a swing at the block of wood.

“Holy smokes!”

It wasn’t the swing that bothered Erin. It was the fact that Lorent’s precise cut had gone through the block of wood with a single motion. It sheared off a plate of wood a centimeter thick, which landed on the table. Erin stared at it and reached for it—

“Careful. You’ll cut your fingers. The edge is sharp.”

Lorent stopped her. Then he showed her the knife, not letting her take it, but allowing her to inspect the edge. Erin did, and saw no imperfection on the edge.

“Wow.”

“You see? Quality steel plus my Skills do this. And I can sell you a set or a custom-made knife. The price is high, but you’ll get years of flawless cuts if you treat it right.”

Erin was tempted, but she had a billion questions.

“I get it’s super sharp, but why do I need a knife that sharp? I’ll take my own arm off! And why knives? Surely you could do that to an adventurer’s sword, right?”

The [Sharpener] frowned mildly.

“I do that on the side. But knives are an art. Sharper is safer, if you respect the blade. Ever had your fingers slip while cutting something like a tomato? Or a fish?”

Erin shuddered. Lorent nodded.

“A sharp knife doesn’t slip. Mine don’t—ever. So, about the knives. Want to see what I’ve got?”

“Uh…I didn’t really, but you’re actually starting to sell me on this. Tell you what, do you have a good kitchen knife? Let me see it and we can talk coin—I could actually afford a good knife now that I think of it…”

Lorent nodded. The man eyed Erin’s hands and raised a finger.

“One second. I have just the knife. I just need to get it from the back.”

“Don’t worry, take your t—”

Erin was smiling and waving a hand when Lorent reached up. He put both hands on the side of his head. Then he pulled his head off his shoulders, placed it in the basket on the counter, and his body promptly turned and walked into the back of his shop.

The young woman froze. Her eyes bulged as they stared at Lorent’s retreating torso. Then they fixed on his head. He was talking calmly, looking up at Erin from the basket.

“It’s also about contouring the handle to the grip. A good knife should fit the hand. So I’ll see if the ones I have fit yours. They might not—you’re a Human, not a Gnoll or Drake, and your bone structure’s different. But I know a [Carpenter] who can sand down the grips if need be at no extra charge to you—ah, here we are. I actually had two, now that I recall. Take a look.”

His body walked back out, carrying a pair of knives in its hands. Erin stared at the headless body as it placed the knives on the counter, picked the head back up, and placed it back on the shoulders. Loren twisted his neck back and forth and rolled his armored shoulders as if nothing had happened. He gestured to the knives.

“Don’t worry. These aren’t sharpened yet. I like to let my customers handle their knives first, see how they feel.”

Erin stared at the knives. She did her best, inspecting them and practicing cutting as Lorent made a few remarks. But she couldn’t. She just couldn’t. She tried to ask Lorent twice and then gave up. The sight of him pulling his head off like Erin would take off a hat had thrown her. She looked at Lorent helplessly.

“I—I think they’re great knives. But, uh, I left my coin purse in my other pocket. I’ll, uh—over there!”

She turned and fled. Lorent sighed as the Human girl escaped into the crowd. But he comforted himself as he reclaimed his knives and left his head to watch the counter while his body walked back into the shop.

“She’ll be back. They all come back. Everyone needs knives.”

You could bet gold on that. Civilizations rose and fell, but everyone needed knives. Even damn [Mages].



——



Erin made it two streets away from Lorent before her heart stopped pounding. Part of her wanted to go back, apologize, and ask the obvious, but she had to calm down first. Clearly, Lorent wasn’t Human.

“Duh. Not Human. Humans can’t do that. I’m pretty sure.”

Even so, Erin had to feel at her neck. She’d cringed to see Lorent’s neck do that! And in a basket? How did his body see? No, wait—what was he?

Part of Erin was even ashamed for having that reaction to begin with. But she couldn’t help it. Lorent had been a new level of weird, even for Erin. Because—okay, look. Most people were normal, despite their appearances, right? After you got past the looks, they were just…people. Erin had gotten to know the citizens of Liscor, and, in a lot of respects, they behaved exactly like Humans with only a few quirks. She was fine with them.

Drakes she could handle. Gnolls were totally fine. Humans? She saw them all the time! Every time she looked in a mirror. Dwarves, half-Elves? Standard. Half-Giants? Erin didn’t know about the others, but Moore was too easy to like. Drowned Men? A bit out there. Garuda were intimidating for a bit, but only because Bevussa had been so vibrant and new.

Selphids…well, Jelaqua had thrown Erin for a loop a few times, but Erin had gotten to know her, no matter which dead face she was wearing. Jelaqua’s true, hidden form still made Erin squeamish, but day-to-day, she was just a person, albeit a different-looking one every time you turned around. But that armor-dude had been the first overtly magical being Erin had met.

“He pulled off his head! Like that! And there was this glowing…thing inside! Is he a magical suit of armor? Or…did the Headless Horseman come here a few thousand years ago and get really busy?”

Erin kept walking just so people wouldn’t stare at her mumbling to herself. Only, now she was giving every passing armored Human the fish-eye. And she began to realize that all the people she’d thought were Human were in fact the same people as Lorent.

“So there are Garuda and…Lorent-people in the city. Did anyone ever tell me that? No? Well, they should!”

Still, Erin had to admit that both species were minorities. Drakes and Gnolls were predominant by far, and from what Erin could tell, there were four or five Drakes to every Gnoll. Pallass was still a Drake city. Erin shook her head.

“I’ll double back and ask later. But right now, I just have to…”

She saw an opening in the crowd. An opening in the buildings, in fact. And that opening was in fact the end of this floor. Erin saw a guardrail, a few benches, and as she approached…

“Whoa.”

Erin stared down over the guardrail and down into the heart of Pallass. Three hundred feet or more down, straight to the ground. The floor below her stretched out a bit before ending, and then the floor after that stretched a bit further…and right at the bottom of the city was a large building that looked almost like the tip of a fountain pen. Erin guessed it was some big important building. But her eyes were drawn to the tiny specks below her, people walking about, wagons entering the ground floor—

“It’s so…big.”

She had heard that Pallass held over a million souls in its walls. And looking at the distant far wall—where people were walking on the same floor as Erin—she could believe it. This city was massive! It was Liscor times ten, no, even larger. She couldn’t imagine any army ever taking this place. The Humans would have been lost here, and forget riding a horse around. There was nowhere to ride!

That was why Erin hadn’t seen any animals on the upper floors. They probably couldn’t get beyond the ground floor. Which meant those elevators and Street Runners and the steps were the only way to transport stuff.

“It must be a nightmare to haul stones to build stuff or do…anything.”

Erin muttered to herself. But then she saw something else. A large elevator, cut against one wall, rising slowly. And on it were a pair of…Erin squinted.

“Horses? And wagons?”

The massive elevator rose and came to a stop above Erin’s floor. She couldn’t see what happened, but she saw the elevator slowly descend with a lot of boxes on it a minute later. She slapped her forehead.

“Cargo elevators. Of course. You clever Drake jerks. But it still means not a lot of horses on the second floor. And how do they, uh, get rid of pee and stuff like that?”

No helpful diagram of Pallass’ plumbing system appeared this time, so Erin left it as an unsolved mystery. But now her interest was rekindled. She stared down at a floor below her. Part of it was shadowed from above.

“Do they live in the shadow all day? How would you live like that?”

And no sooner had Erin wondered than she found out. She looked about, spotted an elevator, and hurried towards it. It was filling up with Drakes as Erin approached. She paused uncertainly, but a Drake tossed her head.

“Getting on?”

“Yes, thanks!”

Erin wasn’t sure if you had to pay to ride or something. She didn’t remember that on her tour. What she wouldn’t give to ask more questions this time! Who had her tour guide been? Nell…Nelliam? Could she ask if—

“Floor?”

Erin jumped. The Drake who’d invited her in was staring at her. She was a Drake in her mid-twenties and looked busy and not-at-all happy to be talking to the ignorant Human. The other Drakes grumbled as they stared past Erin.

“Uh, floor? Sorry, I don’t know.”

One of the Drakes laughed. The female Drake, who had a very normal green scaly pattern but vibrant, almost pinkish neck spines, sighed.

“What floor do you want to go to?”

“Er…the one right below us?”

“Six.”

The Drakes chorused as one. Erin blushed, but the Drake was busy closing the little door. Then she pulled a hand-lever by her head, and the elevator went down.

“Whooooooaaaa—”

Erin’s exclamation at the rapid descent was followed by a sudden increase in gravity that made her stumble. The elevator was slowing! The Drake had pulled another lever, and the elevator was coming to a halt. They were on the floor right below. Erin pulled herself upright and then realized the Drake was opening the door.

“Six.”

She looked pointedly at Erin. The young woman realized this was her stop.

“Oh, thanks! Uh, sorry about—”

The instant she walked out, the elevator door clicked shut and it dropped. Really fast. Erin stared over the second guardrail and distinctly heard a voice travelling up at her from below.

“Humans. Who goes one floor d—”

And then it was gone. Erin winced. So. Embarrassing yourself in another city? Check. But to be fair…she walked away before completing the thought.

“Okay, so there are people who run the elevators. And they go fast. A lot faster than at home. I wonder if they ever go crash? Ooh, maybe I’ll use the stairs next time. But that’s also so cool. If they have elevators, do they have escalators? Could they make…?”

Erin realized she was walking along the second floor, technically underneath the first one, but she could still see just fine. It was only a bit darker, that was all. She looked around and saw dozens of metal posts upon which were fixed glowing glass orbs. And inside…

“Oh! [Light] spells!”

Or something very similar. The mage lights glowed, giving off a bright, natural light so close to sunlight it had fooled Erin for a second. It was actually eerie to see; she’d expected the lights to be harsh and artificial. But that wasn’t how magic worked here, was it?

Erin stared up at the lights and then down the street. People were working here, just like above. Only, it felt like this was more of a residential district. She saw a lot of what looked like apartments reaching all the way up to the point at which the ceiling, or seventh floor, began. She wondered what it was like to live in Pallass.

“Probably the same as anywhere.”

Erin shook her head. She walked down the street, head swiveling to see anything interesting. Maybe she could find the…Greeter’s Guild? And ask about Nelliam? Someone could give her directions, probably. And he could answer some questions. And when Erin was tired of looking around she’d…

She’d…she’d…do what? Walk down another street? Buy a knife? Erin stopped. She looked around at a gaggle of Gnolls racing past her. They were young and playing with something on the ground. A ball made of leather. Kicking it back and forth, trying to grab it. Like kids playing soccer or, if you wanted to be mean, dogs chasing a ball. They were laughing. And maybe it was that that made Erin realize.

She was lost. This was another city. And Erin was still lost. She looked at the Gnolls and wondered if the Goblins would have played a game like that. She stared at the houses, at Pallass, grand and wonderful, and wondered how many soldiers it held.

“Why didn’t you help? Why didn’t you do anything? Why did they close the gates? Why did I ask them to fight? For this?”

No monster had ever set foot in Pallass. No Goblin. Erin remembered Watch Captain Venim’s face harden. She’d thought he was one of the good ones. And he probably was, for a Drake.

Suddenly, Erin wanted to throw up. She wanted to leave, to go back to her door. But it felt far away. And Erin felt lost. She stood in the street and heard a little voice.

“There. See? Mom? I told you! I saw her in the orb! She was at Liscor!”

Erin turned. She saw a little Drake boy pointing at her. His scales were bright red, and he was gaping at her and pointing a claw at her chest. His mother, an older Drake with less-vibrant scales that had a more purplish hue, was tugging him down the street. She had a laden basket in one arm.

“Keep moving, darling. Don’t point. It’s rude. And it’s probably not the same Human.”

“But I saw her—”

“Yes, yes. You and your friends, watching those scrying orbs all day. You could be practicing, you know! Or earning money as a Street Runner. Hurry up, I need to get to the [Butcher] by midmorning.”

“But mom, she was there! At Liscor! With the—”

The Drake whined. Erin slowly filled in his words as he was tugged out of sight.

“With the Goblins.”

She looked around. At a city not touched by monster attacks or fear or war. Who had no Humans in it, at least none that Erin had seen. Who knew nothing of what Goblins were. And she felt so, so lost…that it hurt.

It had been a mistake coming here. Erin felt lost in a sea of faces, and they had never seemed so alien to her as now. She was lost, alone. And she wanted to go home.

But home hurt too. Erin felt her eyes sting. She had run away from home. She couldn’t bear it. Even though Numbtongue had lost more. She couldn’t stay. So she’d run. But here was worse. She wanted Numbtongue to be here. To have Mrsha and Lyonette by her side. Without them, it was just Erin again. Without her inn. As lost and terrified as she’d been on her first day here.

Tears sprang to Erin’s eyes. She tried to stop them—until she realized she was doing it. Then she let them flow. Erin began to snuffle and wipe at her eyes.

Part of her still told her to be embarrassed. But Erin didn’t care. It didn’t matter if people saw. Why was it wrong to cry in public? Because the Gnolls and Drakes were staring at her? Some were pointing. Only, now she realized.

They knew her. They had seen her. Some had to have recognized her. The girl who led the Goblins. Did they care? Did it matter? Pallass had done nothing. Liscor had done nothing. Erin still couldn’t forgive them. Not Zevara or Olesm or Selys or Krshia. She hated them all. Even if it wasn’t their fault. Hated them because there was nowhere for Goblins to run, but they’d died for a city they couldn’t even enter. Erin hated them and wished they would all burn in—

“Hello? Miss?”

Erin looked up. She wiped at her blurry eyes and saw a figure standing in front of her. He had dark, near-black fur. He was tall, as Gnolls were.

A Gnoll looked down at Erin. A man, or rather, a fully-grown Gnoll. Middle-aged, in fact, starting to develop streaks of grey in the blackness of his fur. He looked down at Erin and smiled, baring his teeth.

“Hey, young Miss Human. You’re looking down. Is something wrong?”

“No. Nothing. Sorry.”

Everything. Erin wiped at her eyes. Her nose was starting to run. The Gnoll looked at her.

“You look like you could use a rest. Why don’t you come with me? My place isn’t far from here. I’ll treat you to a drink. Or a snack?”

“No, I’m fine—”

Erin didn’t want to go with the Gnoll. But he bent and offered her a paw. His smile was reassuring.

“Nonsense. It would be my honor, yes? And the snack is on me. Come, I insist. I have candy.”



——



Erin left. And after a bit, so did Numbtongue. He didn’t use the magic door. He just walked out of Erin’s inn. On his back was a small pack, a rolled up bundle of wood secured with straps. The straps were tight, but positioned so the bundle could be ditched immediately if need be.

At his side, Numbtongue carried a sword. Plain, made of steel. It wasn’t as shiny as the swords of the adventurers in the inn, and it wasn’t magical at all. In fact, it had taken several bad blows that had partially damaged the edge despite the previous owner’s attempts to care for it.

But it was a sacred blade. Numbtongue would have traded it for nothing at all. And in the same way, the guitar he owned was just as important.

The neck had snapped. The base had been damaged. But thanks to a [Repair] spell and some patching with wood, it could still be played. Numbtongue had restrung it himself. Tuned it. But he left the guitar on a table. After all, it would just be a door away.

“We will check the door regularly, but leave it attuned to your…stone.”

Ishkr, the Gnoll, spoke to Numbtongue before leaving. He addressed the Goblin awkwardly, blinking into his red eyes. But he did speak to Numbtongue. The Goblin hesitated.

“Thank you.”

That was all he said. And Ishkr did not smile. But he did not curse Numbtongue. He nodded, and Numbtongue wondered how many Goblins had been accorded that little privilege. He wished the others could have seen that. Perhaps they had, but he wished they could see it again.

Rabbiteater and Badarrow were alive. They had to be. But where they were was a mystery. Gone, perhaps. Fled into the mountains after Chieftain Rags. Numbtongue knew they were probably long gone; they wouldn’t have stayed with Human and Drake armies below. It was not for that reason he climbed.

It was just to fulfill a dead Goblin’s will. That was all. Numbtongue stepped out of the inn and into the mud and grass.

The Floodplains were still mostly mud. The rains had killed the grass, and while some was trying to reclaim the hills and valleys, there was still mud. Unevaporated rainwater. And accordingly, bugs.

Midges, to begin with. But a mosquito buzzed past Numbtongue as he walked down the hill, careless of the mud that got on his feet and the foot wraps he wore. Down the hill. Up the next. By that time, he could smell the humidity and aftereffects of the rain. That smell that almost conveyed the image of grime. Not fresh rainwater here. Not good to drink.

Numbtongue had taken nothing but a mana stone, the bundle of wood, his sword, and two healing potions at his belt. He’d even left the pickaxe along with his guitar in the inn. What was the point of taking extra weight, after all?

No point. And Numbtongue was aware of the merits of magical-door based travel. With that in mind, he set a fast pace, as fast as Garen Redfang would have pushed him on the march. Down the hill, heedless if he slipped. Up, digging his toes into the muck. A green thing buzzed past Numbtongue’s face. He nearly swatted at it until he saw the glowing abdomen. He paused, eyed the acid fly, and without knowing what it was, decided not to hit it.

It wasn’t interested in Numbtongue anyways. It was circling with the other bugs, looking for dead fish trapped in the valleys. Or the bodies of the undead.

The undead Goblins were mostly gone. They’d been eradicated by days of adventurers killing them and burning their bodies. But some had fallen in the valleys or lay submerged, buried. Waiting. Or just decomposing as the magics animating them failed. It was to these things, dead fish, dead flesh, that the bugs and these acid flies congregated.

“Not a fun place to live.”

That was all Numbtongue decided. A place that rained for one month and was muddy and nasty for the rest of spring wasn’t his idea of a good spot. The High Passes were at least honest about the misery you got. He kept moving, aiming for the nearest mountain. That was to say, the base of the towering mountain that disappeared into a cloud above him.

Miles away. But Numbtongue kept moving. Up a hill. Down a hill. Underhill? No. The Goblin’s pace was a mix between a jog and a run. By the end of the third mile, he was sweating hard and swearing as he nearly fell down a hill. Numbtongue picked himself up, spotted a giant rock, swore again, and saw it begin to scuttle his way.

The Rock Crab was sated. It had eaten well during the rains and had even had a good meal afterwards from all the wandering dead things. True, they hadn’t sat quite well with it, but food was food. And because the Rock Crab knew the value of food, it wasn’t about to waste a potential meal.

Its many legs pierced the mud, giving it a firm purchase going down the hill as it scuttled towards the green thing it had spotted. Two huge pincers prepared to lash out from beneath the rock and tear the green thing to bits. The Rock Crab passed over the slope, paused—

And saw nothing. The green thing was gone. There was just mud, some growing flowers and grass, and a long bit of wood. And a glowing purple light. But the Rock Crab’s eyes didn’t function like Human or Goblin eyes, so it regarded the purple thing as a mere irritant. Certainly not food.

Frustrated, the Rock Crab cast about for a while and then crawled off. It would search the muddy valleys for food instead. The place where the green thing had been was quiet for a good few minutes after Rock Crab had left. Then the door opened, and Numbtongue climbed out.

It was awkward, walking through the door in the inn and having to haul himself up out of the door which was lying on the ground. But it was a small price to pay. Numbtongue plucked the mana stone from the door, dismantled it, and kept moving.

The adventurers had been surprised to see Numbtongue jumping through. One of them, the half-Elf that Numbtongue couldn’t stand—Falene Skystrall—had asked if he wanted her to chase off the Rock Crab. If the other one, the one with the skeletal hand, Ceria, had asked it, Numbtongue might have said yes. But he remembered Ylawes from Esthelm. The Silver Swords weren’t bad, but they reminded Numbtongue of the adventurers who’d sometimes come to battle with the Redfangs.

Righteous. That was the word for them. And it summed them up so well. Well, maybe not the Dwarf. But Falene and Ylawes? Yes.

Keep moving. Numbtongue ran up the hill, looked for the Rock Crab, and kept moving. He was sick of hills by the time he got to the point where they stopped. Then it was actual grass, a slope going up at a steep, steep incline…

Here was what Numbtongue did. He climbed. First up the grass, on two legs and on all fours if he needed better purchase. Higher, to a point where grass became broken stones, large boulders. Easier to climb; they reminded Numbtongue of the High Passes.

Higher. Ever higher. Vegetation became sparser as Numbtongue went. And he climbed as fast as he’d run, trying to get at least a few hundred feet higher. He had a suspicion that anything below two hundred feet would probably have been checked by Liscor’s residents over the years.

About two hours in, Numbtongue was exhausted. He’d been going full-speed, his hands were cut a bit, he had dried mud all over his legs, and he wanted some water. So he reached for his pack and unrolled the bundle of wood.

It was, in fact, wood slats. Not the prettiest of things, held together by little bits of rope as they were. But unrolled it formed a kind of…of bedroll? If you laid it down, sure. But it would be the most uncomfortable bedroll in the history of beds if you lay on it. But if you placed it just so against a bit of rock, and put a doorknob you’d been carrying in your belt pouch in the little hole? And if you slapped a mana stone on the door and opened it?

You got nothing. Damn. Numbtongue waited. After thirty seconds, the inn appeared. Ishkr jumped as he saw Numbtongue appear. The Goblin walked through the door.

“Numbtongue!”

Drassi waved at him. She was helping in the inn, serving the adventurers. Numbtongue saw they hadn’t really moved much since he’d last seen them. From the looks of it, some were gambling while they took turns lugging their door north.

“Trouble?”

Ceria looked up sharply as Numbtongue entered the inn. The Goblin shook his head and grimaced.

“Thirsty.”

Ishkr eyed the Hobgoblin’s disheveled state.

“I’ll get you some water. Stamina potion?”

“Water. And I need…”

Numbtongue gestured at his muddy clothes. Ishkr nodded.

“We have some buckets in the kitchen. I’ll refill them from Liscor’s wells later, so use them as much as you need, yes?”

Drassi waved a claw urgently.

“And Erin had better invest in a well. Because getting to that stream of hers is a nightmare with all this muck! I’ll talk to Lyonette about it.”

Within minutes, Numbtongue had washed the mud off of himself outside and gotten a long drink of water. Then he took a ten minute break next to the fire. He watched Dawil lose an arm-wrestling competition to the old Human [Mage], Typhenous, and vaguely approved of the blatant magical cheating. Then he got back to work. He missed Apista flying out the door and the chaos that ensued.

Slower now. Numbtongue stopped his mad dash up the base of the mountain and took a more leisurely pace. Still a decently fast hike, but he was looking around now. Checking the mountain, the distant rocks, the odd tree growing on a flat bit of land, the flowers, and the bird that flew past him. It was peaceful up here. Quiet.

It was what Numbtongue needed. He had just his thoughts to deal with. And Pyrite’s. It had led him up here, where Numbtongue wouldn’t have ventured. After all, why bother climbing a mountain? To look for food? Sure, if you were desperate, but the valleys held enough. No, you only climbed if you had a reason. And that was to mine. It wasn’t Numbtongue’s idea. It was Pyrite’s.

Numbtongue was trying to consolidate the memories in his head, understand them rather than lug them around. It was like…the difference between knowing that fire was hot and feeling the heat of a flame on your skin. Numbtongue could think and pull out the information he needed, but it was a conscious effort. He would rather know, and the part of Pyrite was insistent that mining was important. It was strange how Numbtongue knew how important it was to Pyrite.

He had never met the Hobgoblin. But he could imagine him climbing beside him, peering at the mountain and rocks around them, grunting and pointing them out. It was eerie. It felt like more than just Numbtongue’s imagination. Was this what Chieftains could do? See the past Goblins, talk to them? But the Pyrite in Numbtongue’s head didn’t turn or make conversation.

He was still dead.

But he was showing Numbtongue what to do. How to navigate the terrain without wasting energy. What to look for. Numbtongue followed the instincts in his mind. He climbed, and now he was thinking. Remembering what was, to Pyrite, knowledge bordering on the subconscious. But all fresh to Numbtongue. And what Pyrite was telling him now was all about caves.

Caves. Pyrite had been an expert on caves and rocks, and he’d found that not all caves were made equal. There were six basic cave types, or so he understood.

The first were meltwater caves. That was Pyrite’s name for them. They were distinctive and the type Numbtongue knew of best. Stalactites hanging from the ceiling, large, cavernous networks. The Dropclaw Bat cave adjacent to the dungeon had been one such. But what Numbtongue hadn’t known was that each cave was made up of a certain type of rock, usually limestone.

These caves existed because groundwater and rain would eat away at the stone, dissolving it bit by bit over centuries and millennia. Hence the caves were usually one type of stone predominantly and had the stalagmites, columns of stone, and other distinctive features. It was usually the den of animals, bugs, and opportunistic monsters.

Two other caves were due to water as well: stream caves and sea caves. Pyrite only differentiated the two because sea caves were a product of waves and the oceans carving out stone, and stream caves could come from anywhere. Ice that melted and froze over centuries, redirected streams slowly eating away a tunnel, and so on. Like meltwater caves, all three were natural and largely unhelpful unless you were looking for something to eat. Sea caves sometimes got interesting as [Pirates] would stash loot there, but there was nothing intrinsically special about such places.

On the other hand, the last three caves were interesting indeed. The first of which were tube caves. They were long, winding, smooth caves that were the product of some incredible force pushing its way out of the mountain. They were winding and, unless they’d collapsed, tended to go down a long, long ways. Useful, in short, if you wanted to hunt about. But Numbtongue knew that the High Passes were too old for tube caves to be common; instead, he’d most likely find fracture caves.

The fifth type of cave that Pyrite knew of were fracture caves. Products of earthquakes, seismic events, or something else that made weak stone crack and collapse, giving rise to natural pockets or places under the earth. They were helpful as much as tube caves were; you never knew what you’d get or how the cave would turn out. If you were on the hunt for gemstones, you’d look for tube caves or fracture caves to find as much variety as possible; meltwater caves were usually of one type of stone, not what you wanted.

And yet, all these caves were natural. And thus, the odds of finding anything in them were still remote. That was why the sixth type of cave was Numbtongue’s best bet. And he spotted one after two hours of climbing.

At first, he thought it was a fracture cave. A product of chance. And perhaps that was how it had started. But as soon as Numbtongue had gotten ten feet inside, he realized it was the sixth type of cave: monster caves.

If caves were by and large products of nature, that was because few things could make a dent in earth and stone without considerable effort. Even the best of Human and Drake mines took ages to expand. And they weren’t caves, obviously. They had supports, structure, annoying Humans with pickaxes every few feet in…

But monster caves? They could be large and winding. And it wasn’t hard to see why. Give a creature the ability to eat, dissolve, or otherwise break stone and a few decades and you’d get a cave. They were the sixth type of cave, and honestly, probably the most common. And if you were lucky, they were exactly what you wanted when hunting for rare stones. Because there was a trick to monster caves that few people, even adventurers, had realized.

The trick was that monsters dug towards mana. Some ate it, while others simply couldn’t ignore the allure of gemstones or felt the tingling in the air and gravitated towards such spots. They didn’t always unearth whatever that source of mana was, but the odds were heightened that, if you poked around in such places, you’d have a better chance of finding gemstones. Especially magic ones.

Was it useful information? Numbtongue paused as he stared at the knee-high tracks and distinctive nibbled look of the rock walls. He looked up—there was a lot of space not bearing the nibbling marks. The monsters must have collapsed the rock by accident. An adventurer might pick up on this information, but the hint about mana? Why would they bother?

After all, if you were an adventurer, you killed monsters for loot. Caves weren’t a good source of loot; most monsters didn’t have pockets or covet gold like people did. And if you were a [Miner], you tended not to want to run into monsters. On the other hand…

“Gemhammer. Are they miners too? Do they mine?”

Numbtongue remembered Erin telling him that Gemhammer was a former group of miners who’d learned to fight after a particularly nasty monster infestation had invaded their work space. So they probably weren’t familiar with the monster cave theory either. Perhaps it was only Pyrite. Perhaps…he had been unique.

That gave Numbtongue some comfort as he unrolled the door and set it up against the cave wall. Here was knowledge only a Goblin had time to learn. Only a Goblin needed to learn. Because they couldn’t settle a place and exploit it like people. Here was how Goblins mined.

Numbtongue opened the door, retrieved his pickaxe, his guitar just in case he needed to throw a lightning bolt—he doubted it could be used inside a cave, but you never knew—and a lantern. Then he stepped back into the cave and walked forwards, pickaxe in hand.

A Goblin entered the caves, pausing, staring up at the ceiling. The first thing you checked for was faults, signs you wouldn’t have the cave collapse on you. The next thing Numbtongue checked for was gas, anything in the air that was dangerous. He did that by inhaling rapidly a few times and deciding he didn’t feel faint.

The third thing Numbtongue checked for was what he knew was there. Monsters. He found traces of them after a minute of walking into the cave. The tunnel expanded and shrank, turning into one nesting cavern—buried by rocks—another tunnel, at one point so low that Numbtongue had to duck, and then more exposed space.

Pyrite’s memories told Numbtongue what he was probably going to find before he found the first cracked, dried up shell. Only a few species were so careless in tunneling that they let the stone above them collapse and slowly excavated the entire damn place. And that was the small, roly-poly insect with lots of legs and a curving shell that scuttled past Numbtongue. He stopped.

Rockmites.

The little things filled the next bend in the tunnels. They were all over the walls, scurrying from place to place, industriously widening their domain. Their little jaws were incredibly strong, but the real trick to them was the dissolving acid they squirted. Not enough to be used in combat, but just enough to weaken the stone so they could tear chunks of it away.

They ate stone, or at least, Pyrite thought they did. But stone is a poor diet, so Rockmites also gave lichen a place to live. It was that which constituted their diets. Lichen, rocks, small insects that came to feast on the lichen…Rockmites had it simple and good. They could hollow out huge nests where they lived in quiet peace, creating an ecosystem to live in without disturbing anyone.

Oh, and if you disturbed them, they’d swarm all over you and tear you apart. Numbtongue recalled that pressing bit of information a moment before he stepped into the cave. He froze. But Pyrite was calm. Or he would be, if he were here.

This was all you had to do. Numbtongue slowly walked forwards, watching each step he took. The Rockmites sensed him instantly; they didn’t really pause in their tasks for the most part, but the ones closest to the ground let go and fell off. Then they scurried towards the Goblin.

Step. Step. Numbtongue kept his balance, guitar raised, pickaxe held at his side. He stopped when the little shapes crawling around him grew too many to avoid stepping on. Then he waited.

The Rockmites were investigating this intruder warily. They scuttled around him. Thousands of eyeless little bugs, clicking on the stone floor. Numbtongue wondered what they tasted like. Pyrite answered for him.

Not good, unless you boiled them with a lot of salt. And even then, not worth the effort. They could take chunks out of you fast. If they attack, run and don’t stop.

But they wouldn’t attack. Numbtongue had to believe that. He held very still, waiting, until the first Rockmite scuttled up his leg. It didn’t take long. Numbtongue felt the prickly, painful legs crawling up him, and before the first bite could take a chunk out of his flesh, he opened his mouth.

Click!

It wasn’t a word, but a sound. Numbtongue made the clicking sound as loud as could be and felt the Rockmite let go at once. The others around him fled back a few feet. Numbtongue waited. They scuttled around him and then approached.

Click!

Again, the Rockmites fled. And now they had the hang of it. Scuttle forwards, and Numbtongue would click loudly. After four attempts, the Rockmites decided that this strange thing was neither food nor danger. So they left him alone and scuttled back towards the walls. Numbtongue exhaled slowly.

That’s all you had to do. Just click as loudly as you could and they’d realize you weren’t food and leave you alone. If one bit you? Shake it off. But don’t step on them, take no sudden moves…Rockmites weren’t predators. They didn’t want to kill you, just live. If you left them alone, they’d leave you alone.

Humans never understood that. But Pyrite had, and he’d walked through countless Rockmite caves, sometimes passing by the bones of creatures who’d come with malice aforethought. And now Numbtongue walked past them.

The Rockmites had settled one big nest, but their tunnels were ever-expanding to accommodate their nests and lichen production. Numbtongue passed from the nest down the first tunnel he found, clicking now and then to scare away the Rockmites. And now he was sure of it.

There was magic here.

You could feel it. A vibration at the back of your mind and head, a constant tingling, as faint as could be. You couldn’t really sense it in Erin’s inn—there was always something going on, for one thing. And that magic door sucked the mana right out of the air. But here? There was something magical giving off a faint emanation, and Numbtongue, moving ever so slowly, couldn’t help but sense it.

“Natural leyline? Lost artifacts? Magic monster? Gemstones?”

There were all kinds of things that produced magic. And where magic was, the stones picked it up. Over time, over the course of many years. The right stones, the right combination of magic. Pyrite didn’t know, but he had at least observed cause and effect. And it was a second Goblin trick that Numbtongue employed now.

He reached into his pocket and pulled something out. The mana stone. He’d left the door at the entrance to the cave, but Numbtongue wasn’t about to leave the stone to be snatched by some greedy crow. Or worse, have an adventurer or Mrsha try and follow him. And the mana stone had another use here too.

The darkness of the cave was absolute as Numbtongue turned off the lantern; even his eyes couldn’t pierce it. But then he lifted the mana stone up, and a different, softer light filled the room.

The mana stone was purple, a deep, calm, plum glow. It filled the cave around Numbtongue, glinting off Rockmites quietly gnawing away, off the stone ceiling, a faint light. But Numbtongue felt like it was bright enough to see everything. In the darkness, even the little light was a beacon. So Numbtongue held it up and held still.

Wait. For minutes, as your heartbeat faded, as the Rockmites dug in the distance, as noise stopped. Wait. Wait and focus—not on the mana stone, but past it. Sensing the darkness. Sensing the level of light. And then take a step. And another.

Hold the mana stone up at eye-level. But always look ahead. Watch your step for Rockmites, walk. Down this way? Or that? It doesn’t matter. You’ll go everywhere in the end. Wait, and step carefully. Watch the glow.

That was all you did. Hold up the mana stone and follow the glow. Where the light of the mana stone grew brighter or where you saw flashes amid the cave walls, you stopped. You might find a bit of ore, gemstones, or something magical.

Wait. Wait and walk. Contrary to what someone might think—if the thoughts of Goblins mining ever crossed their mind at all—Goblins weren’t active miners. They didn’t hammer at stone, trying to expose veins and tear out huge sections of earth with grit and sweat. They waited. They moved in places only monsters went. Searching for the light.

Numbtongue did the same now. He walked slowly, carefully, inspecting this cave. Perhaps the first of many today. There were no guarantees, after all. The magic he felt in the air might be in his mind after all, or so faint he’d never find it.

In time, he would gain a prospecting Skill. But this was how Pyrite had done it starting out. Not looking for gold or gemstones, which often required digging and guesswork. But walking through the dens of monsters. So Numbtongue walked deeper into the Rockmite tunnels, following the glow and the footsteps of the Goblin he had never met.

Waiting. Walking. Slowly. Learning how to live without fighting.



——



The first thing the strange, black-furred Gnoll did when Erin stopped crying was offer her something. A white, fibrous stick, one of several in a small packet.

“Nali-stick?”

Erin stared at it. She sniffed, wiped her nose on her sleeve, and stared at the Gnoll. Then she looked around.

“If you’re going to kidnap me or drug me, you want to lure me into a back alley first. Or a van. Or wagon, I guess.”

The Gnoll looked shocked. He stared at Erin and then burst out laughing. Some of the Gnolls on the street turned as he laughed, nearly dropping the little white sticks on the ground.

“And why would I do that?”

“I dunno. Isn’t there an expression about not taking candy from strangers around here?”

“I thought Humans never looked gift horses in the mouth.”

The Gnoll grinned, his teeth flashing. He pointed at the little sticks.

“These aren’t poison, Miss Human. And I’d be a poor [Kidnapper] or whatever the correct class is to try and take you in Pallass, much less on the street surrounded by Gnolls. We can hear a scream even behind closed doors and track a scent for miles.”

That was true. Erin looked around. This area did have a lot of Gnolls in it compared to the seventh floor. The Gnoll saw her indecision.

“We can also smell drugs and poison. Well, most. Ah, but perhaps you don’t know nali-sticks? These aren’t poison. And I’d prove it by offering it to anyone who asked.”

He didn’t raise his voice, but he didn’t have to. At his words, the group of Gnoll youths broke off from their game of kickball and raced over. The older Gnoll fended them off, grasping the small package to his chest.

“Back off! One! I’ll share one with you all. Here. Split it—”

Before he’d finished, the little nali-stick was torn apart and shared among the four Gnolls. Erin saw them chewing and closing their eyes with looks of bliss. That convinced her.

“If this is a drug—”

“Just sugar.”

The Gnoll assured her. Erin was about to say she’d try a drug in her current mood—at least, one of the fun ones that didn’t take your nose off—but she was content with that. She accepted the nali­-stick, eyed it, and then bit the top third of it off and chewed.

Instantly, Erin’s eyes grew wide.

“Sweet!”

“Isn’t it?”

The Gnoll chuckled at Erin’s reaction. The other Gnoll youths were begging for another, and with a sigh, he plucked another from his pack. Instead of giving it to them, he raised it and threw it across the street. The Gnolls yelped and dove for it. Erin thought they wouldn’t mind a bit of dirt.

Neither would she. The nali-stick was as concentrated with sugar as anything she’d eaten from home. It was sinful. Delightful. She ate the rest of her stick, licking her fingers, and noticed the Gnoll was watching her.

Here would be the point where a suspicious person might wonder if he was trying to approach her with some kind of ulterior motive. If not strictly kidnapping, then something else. But Erin didn’t get that sense from this Gnoll. He had a terrible, terrible way of approaching anyone from Earth, but he couldn’t know that.

“Thank you. I’m Erin Solstice.”

The Gnoll transferred the remaining nali-sticks to his other paw and shook her hand gently.

“Rufelt. City Gnoll.”

“City Gnoll?”

It was an odd way of introducing himself. Erin knew there was a difference of course; Mrsha was a Plains Gnoll, and she didn’t let anyone forget it. But it seemed to matter here. Rufelt grinned sheepishly.

“Ah. Apologies. That’s a habit from meeting other Gnolls. It helps avoid confusion, you see. Do you know the difference between a City Gnoll and a Plains Gnoll?”

“One lives in tribes, the other lives in cities?”

Rufelt nodded. He tucked the nali­-sticks into his belt pouch as he spoke.

“Correct. But the difference is more…hm, let’s say serious than that, shall we? By saying I am a City Gnoll, I avoid confusion. Which can happen if a Plains Gnoll assumes I’m one of them.”

“How so?”

He grinned wider but, Erin thought, with a slight edge.

“Well, to hear them say it, a City Gnoll is a domesticated fool without tribe or loyalty. But I would say that being a City Gnoll means I don’t roll over and bow to tribe loyalty. I am free, not born into a family of hundreds or thousands who all have connections to me.”

“…There’s a lot to unpack there.”

“Indeed. But that is a difference I would not trouble you with at the moment. In truth, I hoped to speak with you, Erin Solstice. I know your name—”

“From Liscor?”

Erin was suddenly weary and much less happy with meeting Rufelt. He tilted his head.

“Mm. Yes. But not just from there. I heard you were in Pallass, or rather, word spread that someone came through the door. So I wished to find out who. And I am pleased I met you, yes? And I think my wife will also be. She is coming and not pleased I found you first.”

He pointed. Erin turned, expecting to see…but what she saw was a female Drake, her scales bright purple, striding down the street. She was around the same age as Rufelt. And, Erin realized, she was one of the first middle-aged Drake women that she’d met. She knew younger Drakes like Embria and Selys, and older ones like Tekshia, but Zevara was around two decades younger than this Drake.

“Ah. There you are, Rufelt. And this is the Human? Erin Solstice? Lasica Feltail. You’ve met my husband.”

“I told you a Gnoll could find a Human faster than any number of Street Runners you paid.”

Lasica turned and gave Rufelt a look that Erin read in two ways. Exasperated, annoyed at his gentle needling. And below it, affection. A complex look that didn’t stop her from turning to slap his shins with her tail.

“Bragging becomes a Drake, not a Gnoll. Anyways, Miss Erin? I will call you Erin, if you don’t mind.”

She held out a hand, and Erin found herself shaking it before she knew what she was doing.

“Uh, no. But, um, why did you both want to see me?”

Lasica exchanged a glance with Rufelt.

“You mean, why did we want to meet the first person from Liscor since the siege ended?”

“Or why we wanted to meet someone willing to pay Pallass’ fee for entry?”

“Or the fact that it was the Crazy Human Innkeeper from Liscor herself who entered?”

“Wait—hold on. Fee? And wait—do they really call me that?”

Erin looked from Lasica to Rufelt. The Drake tapped her foot, staring at Erin with raised brows.

“Hm. Are you being serious? Yes, they call you that. Do you think you can lead an army of Goblins without earning a name? Let alone the stories I’ve heard of your little inn. Rivers of blood, skeletons as guests, serving Crelers for breakfast—”

“I think she means the fee, dear.”

Rufelt muttered to Lasica. The Drake glanced at him and then turned back to Erin.

“Ah. They didn’t make you pay to enter Pallass?”

“No.”

“Hmf. Well, I suppose a hero of Liscor deserves free entry. But that doesn’t change the fact that we want a word with you about that—”

The Drake woman’s impatient tone was quelled by Rufelt, who put a paw on her shoulder. He murmured as she glanced at him.

“Lasica. I think this is not the time for confrontation. Miss Erin was distraught when I met her.”

For a beat, the Drake locked eyes with her husband, and Erin saw something invisible pass between them. A thought, perhaps. Then the Drake turned back to Erin.

“Not the time, then. But for later. In truth, we wanted to welcome you to Pallass. From what I heard, Venim and the Assembly gave you a poor welcome last time—and this time as well from the sounds of it.”

“I had a [Greeter] show me around. But about this fee—”

Erin protested weakly. Lasica rode over her, like the tide over a sandcastle at the beach.

“A [Greeter]? Then you’ve barely seen the sights. Come back with us, and we’ll work on you—first your mood. From what I see, that’s Rufelt’s job. And then—”

“I didn’t know there was a fee to enter Pallass at all. No one told me. How much was I supposed to pay?”

Lasica paused. Rufelt raised his eyebrows.

“No one told you about the fee?”

“No…”

Erin was wondering if it was something else she’d missed with Watch Captain Venim or if he had waived it for her. Rufelt scratched at his neck.

“Hm. Interesting.”

“Intriguing. Tell me, Erin. Does five gold coins to use the door to Liscor ring a bell?”

Lasica folded her arms. Erin’s eyes widened.

“Five gold coins? That’s robbery! No one told me about that—and wait, five coins? Do I get paid some of that? I never set a price on the door. But I should. Shouldn’t I? But I’m sure no one pays to go to Pallass, or if they do, Zevara never said!”

“I see.”

Lasica’s eyes narrowed. She glanced at Rufelt. He was blinking and running a hand down his furry chin, staring at Erin.

“Rufelt, do you think this is another gambit by…?”

“The Protectorate? I do indeed, my dear. And one that Liscor might not even be aware of. Worth a mention, do you think?”

“Absolutely.”

Lasica nodded as if she were declaring war. She swung around to face Erin, who was blinking at the two of them. It had been a long time since she heard people half-finish each other’s sentences. Her parents used to do that all the—

“Well, I had intended something else, but I’ll change my schedule. Come on, we’d better muster the troops. The Protectorate’s not getting away this time. Erin, if you’ll come with me, we can do some good.”

She turned, gesturing at Erin. The young woman nearly fell into step behind Lasica before she knew what she was doing. The older Drake was imperious. She looked at Rufelt, who was walking next to her, looking cheerful and relaxed.

“Wait, but I—sorry, we’ve just met. And I appreciate, the uh, stick, but I have things to do.”

She didn’t, really, but the sudden turn of events was startling. Lasica turned and gave Erin a long stare, condensed into a moment.

“And you were planning on doing what, exactly?”

“Um. Wandering about and crying some more?”

Lasica gave Rufelt another look, this time a glare. Erin practically read the ‘you didn’t say that’, and his apologetic look of ‘you didn’t give me a chance, my dear’. Lasica turned back to Erin.

“All the more reason to come with us.”

“We’ll show you the city as we walk.”

They urged her on, and Erin found herself somehow walking without them touching her. Lasica was on her right, talking briskly, Rufelt on the left, adding little asides.

“You see, we were looking for you, but this news about the door changes things. I don’t want to intrude, but it really is important. I know you might think it’s just Pallassian politics—”

“And minor ones at that.”

“—But it does matter. You know—actually, you might not—that Pallass is a democracy? Well, we have yearly elections, and we’re a week away from ours. And so any edge is needed.”

“We didn’t come to you expecting to hear there was no fee on Liscor’s side. And in truth, we’re pleased to simply meet you, Erin. May I call you that? But Lasica’s on the warpath, and I’d like to support her on this.”

Erin’s head swiveled back from Lasica to Rufelt, blinking as they made their way towards the elevator. She settled on Rufelt.

“I thought you were a City Gnoll who answered to no leader.”

He turned and gave her a toothy grin.

“Ah, you’ve not ever been in a relationship then. One where you give and take.”

Erin was wondering what he got from Lasica. She looked at the Drake, at Rufelt, and blurted out something boiling on the tip of her tongue. She couldn’t help it.

“I’ve never met a Gnoll and Drake couple before.”

The said Drake and Gnoll stopped in front of the elevator. Lasica pulled a cord absently, and a bell rang. Then she turned to look at Rufelt. He met her gaze and then both turned back to Erin.

“Well, now you have. Have you ridden the floor lifts before, Erin?”

“Uh, yes?”

“You don’t get nervous about heights, do you? There’s no fear of the cables breaking—and if they do, there’s a feather fall enchantment. We use the stairs usually because the lifts do terrible things for the stomach, but we’re in a hurry and I don’t fancy going three floors up on foot.”

“Oh, I’m fine. But where are we going?”

“To visit the blacksmithing section.”

Rufelt smiled at Erin as the elevator came back up. The Drake with the pink neck spines sighed when she saw Erin. Lasica stepped into the elevator.

“Nine.”

The Drake looked at Erin.

“Which floor, Human?”

Her voice was audibly impatient. Lasica’s head turned slowly. She narrowed her eyes at the elevator attendant, and her tail lashed a bit.

“She is with us. Nine.”

The attendant looked at Lasica, and Erin saw her quail a bit.

“My apologies. Going up to the ninth floor…”

Erin felt the elevator shoot up and braced herself. The other occupants were steady on their feet. Rufelt smiled again at Erin and gestured to their rapid ascent.

“Fascinating things, aren’t they? So recent as well! Imagine if we could build a spire or something straight up like the [Architects] are suggesting? True, it would go over the walls, but could anyone hit such a building if we placed it in the center of the city? And we could use the floor lifts to make a journey from the top to bottom a matter of minutes!”

“It’s a splendid idea. But who’s going to pay for that much stone and enchantments?”

Lasica folded her arms. Rufelt shook his head, but not exactly to disagree.

“It need not be a work of years. It may take decades—”

“Why bother, then? You know it will be fought over for ages by each new assembly. If you do something, do it fast.”

“You just said there’s no money—”

“I asked where the money would come from, not that there wasn’t any to be had.”

“Of course, Lassi.”

Rufelt smiled at Erin. So did Lasica, after a second. The elevator stopped, and Lasica marched out.

“A difference of opinion. We often argue about politics.”

“That was a fight?”

Erin stared between Drake and Gnoll. Lasica shook her head.

“Not a very good one. This way. This is the smithing floor, by the way. Ninth. If you ever come looking for someone to forge anything, this is your stop. But that’s not really your line of work, or ours, is it? The finished products are on seventh along with a lot of shops—”

Erin stepped forwards out of the elevator with Rufelt by her side. Her eyes widened as she felt herself on the top floor of Pallass other than the battlements. She looked around.

“Whoa.”

The ninth floor was the smallest. At least, in width. It was a narrow band running around each wall compared to, say, the second floor, but that narrow band was still large enough to support a very large space. So large, in fact, that the first thing Erin saw outside the elevator was a row of outdoor forges. And she could hear a rhythmic clanging of metal on metal coming from one.

“Behold! The smiths of Pallass!”

Rufelt had to shout to make himself heard as Erin followed Lasica towards the third forge. The [Blacksmiths] of Pallass had been given their own quarter near the top of the city, and their work spaces had been placed right next to each other. They were sprawling complexes with anvils, multiple forge fires depending on how big each forging studio was, and rightly so.

Erin could feel the heat of one of the furnaces from here, and she saw a sweating Drake pounding on an orange-white piece of steel. A blade? It was cooling fast despite the heat, and she saw him shove it in a furnace filled with coals—and fire—and begin working a pair of bellows.

“Hot steel!”

Someone bellowed. Erin jumped, but she was well clear of the voice. A Drake passed her by, carrying what was indeed a very hot piece of steel. She noticed Rufelt crossing to her other side as he did.

“This is incredible. Look at all those furnaces.”

Erin hadn’t ever seen a [Blacksmith] at work, let alone the dozens within view. Rufelt shuddered.

“Incredible? Yes. But dangerous as well. There’s a reason most of the [Blacksmiths], [Armorers], and apprentices and so on you see are species other than Gnoll.”

He gestured at his fur. Erin eyed him and thought of how fast you could burn yourself when your entire body was covered by hair.

“Yeah I get that. But, uh, why are we up here?”

She was still caught up in the flow. Lasica was walking ahead of them, peering at the forges as if looking for someone. She slowed down a bit to explain.

“It’s about the Protectorate.”

“Start from the beginning, dear.”

“Of course. Actually—can you explain it, Rufelt? I don’t know how I would to someone who’s not a Drake.”

“Hm. Yes, allow me. Erin, I believe my wife spoke to you of Pallass’ democracy, right? Are you familiar with the term?”

“Oh, a little bit. Yeah.”

“Good. That saves me much explaining. Well, we elect our ruling body, the Assembly of Crafts, by district. There are hundreds who fill the assembly, but they are not all individuals, yes? You see, there are factions. There are always factions. We elect Senators, but each tends to belong to a party. An affiliation of ideas.”

“Different parties. Different groups. Totally with you.”

Rufelt raised his brows as if to say, ‘really’? But one look at Erin’s face convinced him. Lasica broke in.

“Indeed. Well, of the major groups, there is one that concerns us. The Protectorate has been growing lately. Excuse me—they call themselves the Protectors of the Walls and take a hard stance on immigration, trade, and so forth. They’ve been popular because their tariffs favor local businesses, but they go too far, at least in some of our opinions.”

She turned and gave a passing Drake a glare, as if to suggest that he was one of the complicit ones. Rufelt chuckled as the accused Drake gave Lasica an odd look and hurried past. She went on calmly.

“We don’t like them, Rufelt and I. But happily, their party took a large blow to their influence after Liscor. Too many people saw them as tail-dragging cowards who could have done more to aid the city. Instead, we cut ties, and the entire world saw how few soldiers we sent while every other Walled City and lesser city-state was marching armies north.”

“Wow. So Liscor’s siege had more of an effect on Pallass than I thought.”

Erin looked at the married couple and saw Lasica smile. Rufelt grinned again.

“Not just Liscor. A certain [Innkeeper] had as much to do with the Protectorate’s misfortune as well. Had Liscor fallen, the Protectorate might have claimed it was all sensible precautions they took. Instead, they look like fools and will lose ground in the yearly elections. Or so I think. And this soon-to-be scandal will only fuel that flame, don’t you think, Lasica?”

“Oh, definitely. As if we needed another reason to like you.”

“Wait, you like me? You barely even know me!”

“Well, give it time. We just have to pop in to visit—hey! Is this Maughin’s forge for the day?”

Lasica shouted as she came to a large and very busy forge. Erin saw a Gnoll—covered in a protective apron and patches of missing fur—look up as he worked a grindstone and sent sparks flying on a blade. He shouted an affirmative. Lasica bellowed at him.

“I’m looking for Maughin! Is he available?”

Rather than shout, he pointed. The Drake turned and walked around the forge. Erin followed, and Rufelt stayed behind the two.

“Don’t get too close! They’re running about with steel in there and sparks go flying! You stay back too, Rufelt!”

Erin saw Lasica approach the main section of the forge. And there she saw two people working on anvils, both with their own dedicated forge. One was a Drake, younger, and the second was another of those not-Human people in armor. The Drake—it was a she beneath the soot, Erin thought—was brushing at some very hot metal while a huge man in armor, twice her size, was shouting orders at her.

“Faster! Remove the scaling in one stroke or you’re wasting heat! You don’t need a Skill, just move your hands!”

His voice was clearly audible over the sound of the other forges. The female…armor girl nodded and brushed faster. She apparently did it right, because he pointed, and she was on the piece of metal, hitting one spot, and, from what Erin could see, making it longer, stretching it out.

“Maughin!”

The word made the armored man look up. He scowled at first, but when he saw Lasica waving at him, his face changed. Not exactly to happiness, but at least the scowl dissipated a little. He shouted at one of the other armored folk waiting in the wings and got a nod. The other apprentice or worker took over supervising as Maughin strode towards them.

He was another person in armor, like Lorent. But this fellow, Maughin, was huge. A proper giant! Not as tall as Moore, but certainly nearly as broad-shouldered. His armor was metal, finely engraved, but, Erin had to notice, light plates of steel rather than the heavier armor Lorent had worn. Even so, he was very sweaty and red in the face. As he walked over, he reached up and—Erin was ready for it, but she still gasped—took off his head and carried it in one arm.

“Lasica. Rufelt. And who is this?”

Maughin’s voice came from his head as he held it out, away from his body. Erin didn’t know if it was an insult or to keep him cool—until she realized he was holding it down, at head-height. Lasica nodded to him.

“Maughin, meet the Human from Liscor. Erin Solstice. Do you recognize the name?”

The huge man paused. He wiped a bit of sweat from his forehead, carefully patting his head with a bit of cloth. Erin didn’t know whether to stare at the head or the body.

“The name strikes a bell. From Liscor?”

“The very same. And guess where she just came from? The doorway that costs five gold coins. Which, as it turns out, was free for her and apparently anyone coming through from Liscor. What do you think about that?”

The armored giant thought for a second. Then he turned his head to spit.

“Politics. Why are you bringing this onto my forge floor?”

Erin kept staring at him. Maughin eyed her and Lasica. The Drake was cool and addressed his head calmly.

“We only want you to bring it up with the other [Smiths]. Say, by sundown? You can just send an apprentice over. But you know this is bad for trade.”

“I do. On the other hand, trade flows north regardless of a single door.”

“But through the Blood Fields? You must admit you have few clients as far north as Liscor, and none in Human lands. And here’s a door, only we’ve apparently been deincentivized to use it. Did I mention that no one on Liscor’s side knew of the charge? At least, not the [Innkeeper] herself.”

Maughin’s head turned towards Erin. She froze up. The giant’s head frowned at her.

“Is this true?”

“I—I—how do you do that with your head?”

The man blinked. Lasica stared. And Rufelt, who’d been hanging back, barked with laughter.

“Maughin, you might be the first Dullahan she’s met! Don’t frown so!”

The armored man—no, the Dullahan stared at Erin. Then, slowly, he placed his head back on his shoulders. He spoke slowly.

“Apologies. I did not realize that there were Humans who didn’t recognize Dullahans on sight. Was this…offensive to you?”

Erin noted the small frown and the nudge Lasica quickly gave her. She waved her hands.

“No! Not at all! But I’ve never seen—I mean, I’ve seen people without heads, but they’re normally dead when that happens. I had no idea there were people like…uh. Hi! I’m Erin Solstice.”

She held out a hand. Maughin took it and gave her the lightest of squeezes. Lasica smiled, looking amused.

“Maughin is a Dullahan. From Baleros.”

“Oh.”

Erin finally remembered where she’d heard the word Dullahan before. But she’d never seen a Dullahan or quite understood what a Dullahan was until now. Rufelt and Lasica gave her the condensed version.

“So you can remove heads and limbs? And you wear armor, but you can decorate it? That’s so…so…”

Erin pondered for words. Hermit crab-like? Robot-ish? She settled for a safe bet.

“…cool! I bet there’s all kinds of stuff you can do! Like—do your work and put your head down and read a book! Wait, you can’t flip pages that way. Or…or go swimming with your head above water! But you can’t see that way…”

“Dullahans can sense the area around their bodies. But it is not so convenient. Nevertheless, I am pleased you speak so highly of our abilities. Not all Humans do.”

Maughin was a slow, deliberate speaker. And like Lorent, his face didn’t change as visibly as another species’ might. Erin got the sense that he was quite formal outside of the forge. Lasica jumped into the conversation then.

“As I was saying, you had no idea of the fee levied on visitors from Pallass, did you, Erin?”

“What? Oh, no. Not at all. And I wouldn’t charge a thing! I only agreed not to ship Runner’s goods through the door. You know, so they wouldn’t go out of work? And merchant’s goods. But visitors are welcome!”

Maughin pondered this. He looked at Lasica.

“So this is a Protectorate bill?”

“Or, at least something the Assembly did under wartime powers that they didn’t inform us about. All perfectly legal, but not exactly fair. This is hardly a measure to save lives, is it?”

“No.”

Maughin looked displeased, but he didn’t spit again. He looked at Lasica and sighed.

“Are you going to bring other guilds into this?”

“At least the [Alchemists] and some of the other businesses. We do good work inside the city, but these tariffs are hurting us all, Maughin. If this needs to be our sticking point to get more support, so be it. What do you say?”

The Dullahan chewed this over. At last, he grudgingly nodded. But he turned to Erin as he did.

“You have my support on one condition. [Innkeeper] Solstice. Will you swear that Liscor had no knowledge of these fines?”

He bent down to look at Erin. She gulped but met his eyes.

“Absolutely. I didn’t know, and Watch Captain Zevara didn’t either. Or she would tell me.”

Erin thought she would, at any rate. She hoped Zevara would. Maughin nodded.

“Then I will speak to the others and reach an accord. Although I’m uneasy about opening a door fully to another city, even so.”

Lasica sighed.

“It’s not a full connection, Maughin. That door can barely handle a few travelers per day. After the [Mages] moved the soldiers back from Liscor, they were half-dead, and the Assembly requisitioned everyone in the city. Come on, you know this is a good deal. Even if they only let people through, you could get orders from Liscor. The City Watch at least will want to bulk up after the siege.”

The Dullahan was nodding reluctantly.

“True. That might open up business. But I was more concerned about—”

“Done!”

Every head turned as a shout came from the forge beside Maughin’s. Erin heard a low, bass voice and an accent that was half-familiar. Then she saw a short, bearded fellow stumble out of his forge, holding a breastplate. The metal didn’t gleam; it was black with soot or something else, and bits of it flaked off as the Dwarf hurled the breastplate on the ground. But from the pure sound Erin heard as it struck the stone and the way it only flexed a bit at the impact, she was sure it was a sturdy breastplate.

“Pelt.”

Maughin looked over disapprovingly at the Dwarf. The other [Smith], who was shouting back into the forge, looked over. He blinked at the Dullahan.

“Maughin. Taking a break? Good for you. I’m done as well.”

Erin glanced at the sky. It was barely past morning! Maughin seemed to share the same opinion. He stared at the breastplate lying on the ground.

“You finished your suit of armor?”

The Dwarf, Pelt, shrugged.

“Breastplate. Good enough for me. I’m done for the day. Armor looks good. So we’re done. One of the apprentices can do the engraving and inlays.”

“And if they err?”

There could be no greater sin, clearly. But Pelt shrugged.

“It’s adornment. It doesn’t matter. The steel is sturdy. And I don’t feel like making more. Who’s the Human?”

He pointed a finger at Erin. She smiled, and Lasica began to explain. Pelt cut her off with a rude sound.

“I don’t care. Vote whomever you want into your damn seats. So long as the walls don’t come crashing down, leave me out of it.”

Affronted, the Drake glared at him. Rufelt looked resigned. Pelt stomped past them as a Drake hurried out to collect the breastplate from the ground. Erin stared at the Dwarf’s back as Maughin shook his head and turned, quite deliberately, to talk to Lasica with his back to the Dwarf.

“Who was that?”

Rufelt sighed and shrugged.

“Pelt. A brilliant [Smith], but a lousy worker. An odd combination in someone with high levels. But Maughin probably wishes Pelt would drink himself senseless all the time or sober up and take him on as an apprentice.”

“He’s that good?”

Erin blinked at the Dwarf, who was shouting for an elevator as he rang the bell. He looked unsteady. As if he was already drunk or, alternatively, hadn’t bothered to stop while forging. The Gnoll frowned.

“Good enough that he can work for a fraction of the time as our good Dullahan and still be competitive. There’s a saying of the two of them. You’ll always go to Maughin for good, high-quality work. But you hope Pelt has a good day, and if he does, you buy from him.”

Erin glanced back at Maughin. From what she could see, his forge was the largest, and his apprentices were working very hard alongside the journeymen. Meanwhile, in Pelt’s forge, a single Drake was cleaning up and working on the breastplate.

“It doesn’t seem quite fair.”

Rufelt nodded.

“Levels dictate much. And despite Maughin’s skill, he cannot yet match Pelt. But in a few years? Perhaps.”

“I had no idea there were…Dullahans in Pallass. Or Izril, to be honest. Are they common, just not in Liscor?”

The Gnoll frowned, but it was Maughin who approached and answered for him.

“There are few Dullahans on the continent, but we have a community in Pallass. After all, it is a city that offers [Smiths] a chance to work. We supply the southern half of the continent with much of the armor and weapons from these forges. If you so desire, Erin Solstice, I will take a commission from you. I shall remember your name.”

That had a ritualistic sound to it. Erin smiled and bowed to Maughin slightly.

“And I will, uh, remember yours. Maughin, right?”

He nodded. Erin waved goodbye as the Dullahan walked back to his forge, already calling for an apprentice. Lasica shook her head.

“Well, that was simple, but I could have done without Pelt. You’re lucky he didn’t spot you, Rufelt. He’s still sore at you for cutting him off.”

“Then all is well, Lasica. Where to next? Let’s not drag about our guest more than we have to.”

“I’m fine.”

Erin was actually enjoying this a bit. Meeting Maughin had been fun. And she had a sense—even if she was hazy on the particulars—that she was doing something that was going to bug Pallass’ Assembly of Crafts. So she was all in. Lasica smiled.

“Hm. Well, we don’t need to go far. We’ll visit Xif, the [Alchemist], so he can send word along through his guild. And…stop by Melinni’s storehouses?”

“If you can bear it.”

The Drake lashed her tail.

“To tweak the Protectorate’s noses? Yes.”

“A noble sacrifice. Lead on, then.”

To Erin, Rufelt pointed across the ninth floor to the other side.

“We’re headed to the [Alchemist]’s section next. The other side, you see the colored smoke coming from that roof? That’s our destination. It is a bit of a walk—the [Engineers] haven’t developed a floor lift that goes sideways, yet.”

“Or at least, one that doesn’t take up too much space.”

The two marched across the floor, Erin walking between them. By this point, her curiosity was fully stoked.

“Okay, I get that Maughin’s a good [Smith], but what’s the plan here? Get people angry at the Assembly and then what?”

“That’s all we need to do. It just needs to be the right people. Butchers, bakers—well, a [Chef]—and potion-makers. And a [Smith]. Throw in a few more high-leveled shopkeepers and artisans and we can cause a fuss. By sundown, the Assembly will have to issue an explanation for why we’re cutting trade with Liscor, and they might throw the Protectorate entirely under the wagon.”

Rufelt smiled happily to himself. Lasica nodded. They passed by a huge stairway, one of the four leading straight down all nine floors. Erin saw a crowd coming up the steps, some looking winded from the climb. She was passing along the walkways around the stairs when she heard another voice.

“Excuse me! Street Runner, coming through!”

This time, she looked and saw the Gnoll hurtling past her in time. He leapt—not towards the busy stairs, the right side of which was going up, the left travelling down—but towards the ramp separating the two. Erin watched as the Gnoll charged down the incline and wished, for a second, that she had a piece of cardboard so she could sled down.

She saw the Gnoll pass by a Drake girl kicking her feet while sitting on one of the guardrails, perilously teetering on the abyss. She looked up and, to Erin’s horror, stood up on the guardrail and pointed at the Street Runner.

“Race you!”

She leapt. Erin jerked, but then she saw the young Drake’s wings unfold. The Gnoll racing down the steps grunted as the Oldblood Drake girl dived past him, laughing merrily. The Street Runner didn’t look too pleased; Erin saw him turn abruptly and the girl Drake turn clumsily, crying out as she fell behind.

“Foul, foul!”

Rufelt and Lasica laughed at the young woman’s reaction. The Drake reassured Erin there was no danger.

“And if there was, it’s her parent’s fault for not getting her flying lessons. We’ve got enough Garuda, and they’re natural-born fliers. Don’t worry. Some of the scaly brats love to race Street Runners. More often than not, they lose; many of them don’t exercise their wings enough.”

“I’ve never seen—okay, I’ve seen a few other people—but Drakes with wings are still new to me! Not common in Liscor at all! I know a Drake who breathes stuff, though. Mostly smoke.”

Lasica nodded.

“Oldblood Drakes are rare. Liscor doesn’t have…? Well, I suppose it’s a smaller city, isn’t it? What kind of breath is it? Just smoke? Acid? Frost? Lightning?”

“Fire.”

“Ah, generic. Well, that’s still rare enough. And speaking of rare…I have no proper segue. Here we are.”

She was leading them to the house with the chimney belching smoke. Rufelt coughed as they approached, then sneezed repeatedly.

“Another place I’d stay back from. This is why I hate the ninth. Lasica, mind if I…?”

Lasica nodded. Erin, who’d already caught a strange whiff in this section of the ninth floor, realized they were along a street filled with houses or studios that had the same weird scent emanating from them. A few had blown-out windows. One looked recently vacated. And burned.

The house in front of them looked normal except for the smoke. Lasica waited and Erin blinked as the door opened and revealed a Gnoll with shaggy tan fur—stained every color imaginable and singed in two places.

He smelled like eight things at once, none particularly good, and all nose-searingly strong. Rufelt refused to even go near him and left Erin and Lasica, whose noses weren’t nearly so good, to talk to the [Alchemist].

“I can barely smell at all these days. A byproduct of my work. So you are the [Innkeeper] one hears so much about? I am Xif, [Alchemist] of…”

He glanced over his shoulder quickly at the sign over his shop.

“…the Cunning Crafts. No, Cunning Crafts is my shop. My apologies, yes? Oh, and I am a City Gnoll, if anyone asks.”

“I’m very pleased to meet you.”

“And I you! Very kind of Lasica to bring you to meet me. Why, I saw the events at Liscor—a terrible thing, what those Humans were about to do. But you stopped them! Only, I doubt that’s the only reason you’re here?”

He was nothing like Octavia from his pleasant, if befuddled, demeanor and the way he gave Erin the impression he was thinking of five things at once, like some chess players she’d met. Always thinking ahead and around her. He nodded when Erin pointed out the difference.

“Why, some [Alchemists] create potions in number to make money. But I, like others in Pallass, live only to create that which no one has ever seen. Or to rediscover and recreate lost recipes of old. It means I do not earn as much as some—”

Lasica rolled her eyes and twitched her tail irritably.

“—But he’s the most reliable [Alchemist] in the city. The best for actual commissions. At least, when he’s not endangering the rest of it with his experiments. There’s a reason why we put the [Alchemists] on the top floors.”

“To deal with the smoke and other stuff floating up?”

Erin pointed at the chimneys. Lasica shook her head.

“No. To make it easier to throw [Alchemists] off the walls if they cause trouble.”

“Sadly, true. I’ve lost many a good friend who incurred the wrath of the city.”

Xif’s ears lowered. Erin stared in horror at him. That couldn’t be true. Could it? But his face—

She saw Lasica’s grin and Xif’s smile, then. Erin stared at them in astonishment as the old Gnoll and Drake woman chuckled.

“You’re teasing me?”

She heard a laugh from Rufelt, who’d also listened to the joke. Xif leaned over, chuckling. He didn’t smell that bad, actually. Once your nose shut down, that was.

“Drake humor. It always involves someone suffering, yes? Pleased to meet you, Miss Solstice. It was a brave thing you did. I hope to see at least one Gnoll pass through from Liscor if Lasica has her way. Which she will, of course. Naturally, I’ll agitate my fellows. They’d love nothing better than to harvest acid flies around Liscor, but none of them have thought of it yet I’ll wager. They’ll cause a stink, quite literally if you want it, Lasica.”

“A metaphorical one does for us. Good day, Xif. Stop by this evening if you’re free. We miss you at the bar. But do remember—”

“To wash. Ah, yes.”

The Gnoll bid them farewell. Lasica nodded, smiling a bit at the door, and Erin thought Lasica liked the old Gnoll more than Maughin. But the next moment she was all business.

“Onwards, then. We’ll stop at that damn—the scaly tease who—we’ll stop by the fourth floor, and then I can let you relax at our place.”

“And what exactly is that place?”

“You’ll see once we get there. But I think you should know already.”

Lasica walked on. And Erin couldn’t help but follow. She stared at the Drake as Rufelt followed them, sneezing and complaining about [Alchemists]. Erin was getting a funny feeling. The oddest sense of déjà vu. Only, it was coming from Lasica’s back as she led them to an elevator.

Down five floors at a dizzying pace. This floor was filled with fewer people than Erin expected and more large, warehouse-like buildings and workers hauling goods. In fact, warehouses were the right word for it. For, at the next stop, Lasica rapped on a small building connected to a very large warehouse. The sign read ‘Melinni’s Meats’. Well, that was straightforward enough.

“Rufelt! How wonderful it is to see you! And you. Lasica.”

The Drake had nearly perfect white scales, spotted only by a few pink dots along her tail. She and Lasica greeted each other like old enemies, and Rufelt hugged Melinni as she was introduced to Erin and given the rundown. The Drake [Butcher] clucked her tongue after she’d heard the story.

“The Protectorate’s afraid we’ll visit Liscor?”

“Maybe they just wanted to make it seem like only Liscorians would want to visit Pallass and not the other way around. Or devalue the door. Or do any number of things. The point is, we’re causing a fuss. Can you get the other [Butchers] in on this?”

“For you, Lasica? No. For Rufelt’s sake? I suppose so.”

Melinni sighed, and Lasica glared, but Erin had been watching the two Drake’s tails, and she suspected half of their animosity was staged. Melinni did insist on showing Erin her ‘shop’ before they left, though, and it turned out her butcher’s shop was more of a storehouse for all the meat you could ever want.

“That’s…a lot of meat.”

Erin stared inside the disturbingly room-temperature storehouse at the racks of fresh meat, sausages, cuts of animals, fowl, fair, and still bloody. Melinni dealt in all kinds of meat. From Wyvern to rabbit. The Drake spread her arms wide, showing Erin the glowing preservation runes on the floor.

“More meat preserved here than you could eat in ten years, Human. But still, it is only a fraction of Pallass’ stockpiles. Come and see if you would like—but mind the floor runes!”

She led them down the main section where buyers could point out what they wanted. But access beyond there was strictly forbidden; only the workers could pick out the meat and cut it.

“Slippers only if you walk past this point. Each section is double-warded, but we must take care not to scratch the protective runes.”

Melinni was the richest [Butcher] Erin had or possibly would ever meet. She could separate every bit of fat from a bit of meat with ease, but she’d found her real fortune in preserving meat long enough for it to be used. Her store house was one of the biggest on the fourth floor—Erin was slowly realizing that everyone Lasica and Rufelt knew were the big cheeses of their floor. She had to tell the Drake about the runes she’d accidentally damaged in her inn. The Drake was beside herself with the pain of Erin’s recollection.

“Oh, darling. You should have stayed away from that! But, rotten as it was? I’m surprised it was still going. Don’t beat yourself up too hard. Any good [Enchanter] could have spelled the wood against that sort of thing, but do they bother?”

“No.”

Rufelt and Lasica chorused with Melinni. Erin looked from face to face.

“You have problems with [Enchanters] too? I was trying to get some work done, but I hear they’re hard to hire.”

Melinni shuddered.

“Oh, the worst. Good [Enchanters] are hard to come by. I speak of the ones who work without asking for more coin or slacking off on the job or arguing about design. Pallass has some, and I hate them all to some degree. I tend to work with generalist [Mages], but their knowledge is often not so specialized…”

Rufelt nodded.

“The bar has several enchantments, but upgrading is very difficult. I’ve been waiting for a good Wistram [Mage] to stop by for months now. There’s a fault in the seal of one of our preservation runes, or so I think.”

Bar. Erin stared at the Gnoll, and Lasica elbowed him, but it was too late and Melinni didn’t care. The Drake led them out, talking animatedly with him about the magical equivalent of home fixes.

“The trick is to apply a tiny bit of silver powder combined with crushed mana stones—any will do—and a tiny bit of glue. If the rune is working, it sometimes connects the…the gap? I’m no [Enchanter], but we’ve done that for two faulty runes, and it’s worked both times. I only store the daily cuts there, though. One can never be sure…”

“You have a bar?”

Lasica looked put out as they bade farewell to Melinni, or rather, her husband did.

“That was a secret. Rufelt has a bar. I own the kitchen. We’re a partnership. Or did you think two random strangers had sought you out?”

“Well…I’ve had weirder encounters.”

Rufelt chuckled.

“I somehow don’t doubt that. But we are in the same business as you, Erin. And we always check out the competition. We’re headed to our bar now. We’d be delighted if you joined us. We didn’t mean to drag you about.”

“I didn’t mind. But are you sure? Don’t you have a business to run?”

Lasica waved that away.

“We make our money at night. And we have preservation runes of our own. We’ll stop by there. And we have to treat you, not just for the news about the door—”

She stopped as they neared the steps leading up to the fifth, which was their floor. A loud, chanting voice had risen above the general noise of the crowd. Erin saw the Drakes and Gnolls on the stairs look over their shoulders and clear a path on the left side. Then she saw a huge, muscular Drake wearing tight-fitting clothing charge up the stairs. He was followed by six Drakes and a Gnoll.

“One, two, three, four! Move those legs, you slugs!”

The Drake turned and roared at the seven following him as he jogged in place at the top of the stairs. He began running their way, exhorting the exhausted Drakes to keep moving. The Gnoll ran after him as the Drake’s voice echoed past them.

“You call yourself proper apprentices? I’ve had bowel movements faster than you! Pump those legs! Do you want to be [Mages] or not!?”

“[Mages]?”

Erin stared at the Drake. His clothes looked almost like something she’d see in a gym on earth, albeit missing logos or the flashier artificial fabrics. And he looked nothing like any [Mage] she’d ever seen. Moore was strong, and Pisces was, despite appearances, rather fit, but this Drake had muscles.

He had—there were bunches of muscles standing out that—put it this way, if Erin was testing a group of bodybuilders for drugs, she’d skip the line and start with this Drake instead.

He looked like a weight lifter from her world, but he’d stopped before his muscles got comically huge. Not that there was much funny about a Drake who looked like he breathed protein shakes and bench pressed in his sleep.

Really, there was something unnatural about him. The biggest and burliest Drake that Erin had met was Relc, but this Drake’s body showed that he was someone who deliberately worked out on a regular basis, totally different from a soldier’s muscles. He had abs. And he was a [Mage].

“Rufelt? Lasica? Who is that?”

The Drake sighed.

“And here I thought we’d get her back to the bar without showing her one of the crazies. Erin, meet one of the people that makes Pallass famous. Here’s Grimalkin, the famed master of…I don’t know, what does he call it again, Rufelt?”

“Physical magic. His personal school.”

“Yes, that. And those dying Drakes and that poor Gnoll girl are his latest batch of apprentices.”

Erin stared at the Drakes trying to keep up. Half had simply collapsed after getting to the fourth floor, and Grimalkin was jogging around them, bellowing insults.

“You lot are a disgrace! You call that exercise? I call it a warm up! If you can’t do two laps up and down the stairs by the end of the month, you can forget ever mastering magic! Stop whining about your lungs! Breathe in, suck it up, and run! You think just because you can throw fireballs that you deserve a break? On your feet!”

There was some commonality between Grimalkin and Erin’s middle school gym teacher that was eerie. She walked towards him as Lasica and Rufelt both urged her to the stairs leading up. The Drake [Mage] was pausing to bellow again when Erin raised a hand.

“Uh, excuse me—”

“No stamina potions! And no giving them a claw up! They get up and run or they can resign right now, Miss—”

The Drake shouted and then glanced at Erin. He stopped dead in his tracks and looked her up and down.

“Are you from Liscor? No, wait—are you that Human from Liscor? The [Innkeeper]?”

Erin saw heads turn. Grimalkin wasn’t quiet. She saw Lasica sigh.

“That’s right, Grimalkin. This is Erin Solstice. From Liscor. And please, don’t make a scene—”

Too late. Grimalkin looked Erin up and down and strode over to her. She got a whiff of sweat and then stared up at a bulging pectoral. She looked up as Grimalkin eyed her.

“So. You’re the Human who led that Goblin army against the Goblin Lord, are you? Charged into battle with nothing but a flag and dared, dared the Goblin Lord to a fight?”

Part of Erin quailed at remembering. But Grimalkin was so loud he was even drowning out her sorrow.

“It wasn’t just me. It was the Goblins. They sacrificed their lives so—”

“But you led them. You were there. And you’re, what, an [Innkeeper]? Any combat classes? Any at all? Magical artifacts?”

“No. No, none. I got some after—I mean, I’m a Level 2 [Warrior] if that counts, but—”

“Testicles!”

Grimalkin bellowed the word over Erin’s head. She jumped. Everybody in earshot, from elderly Drake ladies on the stairs to a Street Runner passing by, turned to stare. The muscular [Mage] turned and shouted back at his apprentices, who were still trying to stand back up.

“Do you hear that? She charged an army of monsters herself! Testicles! You lot can barely get up a flight of stairs!”

The muscle-bound Drake glared at the male Drakes, all of whom were sweating and gulping for breath.

“While this Human—”

He slapped Erin on the shoulder so hard she nearly fell down.

“—has more balls than all of you lot put together! And more of whatever you two have—”

He pointed at the panting female Drake and Gnoll.

“—in her testicles! I’m assured Humans have testicles of some kind.”

He turned back to Erin for a moment as if asking for confirmation. Erin staggered upright.

“I don’t have…testicles.”

Grimalkin digested this for a moment and then turned his head.

“Gonads, then! The point is if an [Innkeeper] can fight with only her brawn and wits against a Goblin Lord and his army, no true [Mage] should do anything less!”

He pointed at the female Gnoll, who was definitely the odd one out.

“You there. You want to become a [Mage]? Prove it! And the rest of you, if this Human can fight a hundred thousand Goblins—”

“It really wasn’t like that—”

“—then you can all do five laps! On me! Miss Human, it was an honor.”

He turned and, gasping, his six Drake and Gnoll apprentices lurched into motion behind him. Grimalkin seemed so pumped up by meeting Erin that he left the others in the dust in a moment. The unfortunate Street Runner who was doing a delivery in the area found the [Mage] running neck-and-neck with him, as if challenging him to a race.

Erin watched Grimalkin disappear behind a building with her mouth open. She only looked around when she heard a wheezing sound. Rufelt was doubled over laughing.

“Don’t be rude, Rufelt.”

But even Lasica was smiling. She took Erin by the shoulder and led her up the stairs. Erin could still hear Grimalkin’s voice echoing back towards them, but it faded as they climbed to the fifth floor. And there, just off the main stairwell, was a large bar. No, a tavern. Erin stared up at the sign.

“Tails and Scales, the best bar in all of Pallass!”

Rufelt pushed the door open. Lasica followed him.

“And the best tavern thanks to me. Ignore Rufelt. He’s only good for serving drinks. Have a seat, and…”

And before she knew it, Erin had a cold drink in one hand, Lasica was in the kitchen cooking something up, and Rufelt was leaning across from her, whipping up a second drink from the many, many kegs and containers scattered across his bar. Erin had about six types of alcohol. He had over a hundred liquids to mix from, and more substances besides.

“Anything you want, ask for it and I’ll mix it up. My [Bartender] senses tell me you don’t get drunk, so I’ll take that as a challenge.”

He winked at her. Erin stared at him and then at Lasica as she came out of the kitchen with a bowl of…Erin stared.

“Pork bits on sweet maple-glazed breaded chicken. Disgustingly unhealthy, but that’s what makes a smile appear on Rufelt’s face. If you have a dish, order it up. I can make anything you want, or close enough. Fancy some Wyvern meat? It’s very good fried thin and crispy.”

Lasica was busy slapping Rufelt’s paws away from the toothpicks holding the little steaming bites together. Erin looked from face to face.

“I—I’m so grateful. But I don’t want to impose.”

“Nonsense!”

Both husband and wife chorused. Rufelt snagged one of the chicken bites and swung himself back to his cup. He poured something that looked to Erin like an ale into the see-through glass and then a deep blue liquid which pooled at the bottom. Rufelt swirled the glass, and the blue tornadoed up, somehow staying separate from the rest of the alcohol. He presented it to Erin, and the glass was ice-cold as she touched it.

“A drink and food. For you. You are, after all, a guest.”

“But I’m an [Innkeeper]! I mean, I serve food and drinks all the time. It’s…”

Erin closed her mouth. It felt weird to be someone else’s guest. Rufelt’s eyes twinkled.

“Ah, but that’s Liscor, yes? Here you’re just Erin Solstice, a poor Human girl dragged about by a strange [Bartender] and his [Chef] of a wife.”

Lasica tapped him gently on the brow.

“Besides, even an [Innkeeper] needs a break. And as a rookie to the business, we thought we’d help out.”

Erin looked from smiling face to face. And then, suddenly, she understood. All day she’d been following a crazy Gnoll and Drake about, listening to them convince people to go along with their plan. It seemed like everyone knew Lasica and Rufelt, even if they didn’t say it. And here they were, in their apparently famous bar, tavern, whatever. Offering Erin a drink and food on the house.

That wasn’t the crazy part. The crazy part was…it was exactly like something Erin would have done. Find someone crying on the street and offer them something to eat. And with that thought, Erin looked up and met Lasica’s eyes. She saw the Drake smile, watching her, and Rufelt’s open grin. Erin stared down at the spinning drink in her hand. She didn’t even know she’d picked it up. She took a sip, and the blue tasted like ice and sugar mixed with the strong rum.

And part of the spinning, part of that drink shot down Erin’s throat, making her cough and burn. But as it did, the blue liquid lit up. And something in Erin’s chest began to rise. She took another sip and felt a smile spread across her face.

“That was a happy drink, wasn’t it?”

Lasica leaned across the bar to look at her husband. He raised an eyebrow.

“And that’s [Comfort Food], isn’t it? Go on, take a bite.”

Erin did. And while her taste buds raved and ranted, she felt warmth spread through her like a hug. She looked up, and the Drake and Gnoll couple were smiling at her.

“You’re no ordinary [Bartender] and [Chef], are you?”

“Some call us magical. But I prefer amazing.”

Lasica winked. And Rufelt poured a drink for himself that foamed up straight out of his mug but never overflowed over the sides, a perfect cylinder of foam. He grinned, and Lasica swept around Erin.

“We’ll have the help in later, but right now you’re all ours. Take a seat. Tell us what’s wrong. And have a snack. This one’s a unique little something I came up with from Baleros. The Gnolls love it. I call them mud bites.”

“Mud—”

Erin saw the little ball of peanut butter mixed with chocolate and ate one before she could help it. Then Lasica produced some walnuts—because not everything had to be cooked, Rufelt—and they were sitting with Erin. She looked at them and wondered if this was how her guests felt. She could only hope so.

The Gnoll leaned over a counter, mug ready to be polished with a cloth because [Bartenders] just had to do something with their hands, and the Drake smiled, asking Erin about dishes she knew and had come up with. Erin looked around the bar and felt it welcoming her in.

She closed her eyes and smiled. And then opened one suddenly as something the two had said struck her.

“Wait, rookie?”





6.10


There was darkness. There was stone. And there was a pickaxe. Lit by a plum glow, the dusty steel head rose. The pair of hands gripping it lifted it up and back. For a moment, it was at the apex overhead. Then it swung forwards, an arc gathering speed and weight.

Momentum. The tip of the pickaxe struck the wall. The stone cracked. The sound sent little bugs scurrying. Rockmites. But the green arms paid no attention. The head stayed where it was.

Up the pickaxe swung again. A precise tool, for all its weight. A careless swing could be useless, a waste of energy. But the one who held the pickaxe aimed carefully at the wall.

Ahead and down. There was nothing special about the bend of wall where the miner stood. But he had been breaking into the stone for an hour now. Rocky fragments lay all around him, and he’d cleared the ground around his feet twice. Ahead and down. The glowing purple light of the mana stone, plum in color, told him that. He lifted the pickaxe again and swung it. He was sweating in the darkness. But he felt good. He was working. Working. A novel concept.

“When I was small, I learned to speak by stealing it. I stole words, hiding in the sewers of a town. Far, far north of here. Goblins can live in sewers. We can live everywhere.”

Numbtongue’s voice echoed slightly in his ears. No one replied to him. The Goblin didn’t pause as he swung again, digging out the wall.

“Humans lived above my head. Fighting, arguing, laughing…living. I watched them, sometimes. There was a place right outside the Mage’s Guild. Outside of other guilds too—I would listen there. But it was the Mage’s Guild where I learned all the big words. Sometimes they would argue or gossip about secrets where they thought no one could hear.”

Again, the pickaxe swung. The stone glowed; was it brighter? Numbtongue thought it was, but if so, the glow had changed without him noticing. Slowly, like memory changed in the head with time, sneaking up quietly.

“I learned to speak because I thought it would make the Humans listen. That if only they knew I could talk, they would stop hunting us. They knew we were in the sewers. Just not how many. One day, they swept the sewers with every adventurer they could muster. [Guards] and [Mercenaries] too. Even [Militia]. Trying to kill us for good.”

Who was he talking to? Himself? That was a waste of breath. Like tears. No proper Goblin would waste air like that. But Numbtongue was a [Bard]. And though there was no one to hear him, he imagined he was telling Erin. As if she were sitting on the ground, trying to pet one of the Rockmites, listening. Just listening.

“I spoke to them, then. Then I shouted. Pleaded and begged. It only made them come after me. I survived. There’s nothing else to say. That was how I met Garen Redfang. He rode down out of the hills. Before he had made the High Passes his permanent base, his tribe roamed until we were too strong to hide and the Gold-rank teams were following us. He saved me and those that fled. That’s how I became a warrior.”

Maybe he was practicing. Trying to tell the Erin in his head before the real thing. Because Numbtongue was still afraid of talking.

“So I don’t talk even though I can. Because Goblins are dumb. We do not talk. I didn’t need to with the others. Now I speak—but it’s still hard. Because I fear…I’m afraid no one will listen.”

Numbtongue turned his head. In his mind, the imaginary Erin smiled at him. But he saw only darkness. The Hobgoblin stood in the cave, feeling sweat sting his eyes. He wiped at his forehead. Shook his head.

“Goblin. Better not talk. Better talk like Goblin. Stupid talking to self.”

The [Bard] grunted to himself. That sounded better, somehow. More like a proper Goblin. But was he behaving like that because that was how the world expected him to be? If Headscratcher were here—

Numbtongue closed his eyes. If he were here, he would have poked Numbtongue in the side and grimaced. And that silent gesture would have been enough. It would have said to Numbtongue—no. Don’t do that. You can speak differently. Better. So do it. Don’t pretend to be someone you’re not.

“This is why I am a [Bard]. A Goblin of words and music.”

The guitar lay on the ground, out of range of the rocky fragments as they fell to the ground. Numbtongue said nothing more after that. He was saving his words. To talk to Erin. To talk to her tonight, maybe. If she had time. Maybe while she and he had a drink at her bar. At night, when no one else was around. His words were for her. He didn’t feel like sharing them with the others, adventurers, even Lyonette.

That was all Numbtongue wanted. A quiet chat at night around a table. A few minutes, an hour to speak with Erin. If he had that, he could be happy. And he could tell her too, if she invited him. His past, his fears…

And that he thought chess was really boring. She would laugh or be angry, and that would be—

Chink.

The sound as the tip of the pickaxe rang was different from all the other times Numbtongue had swung. It was louder. Higher-pitched. He’d hit something different. Instantly, the Goblin stepped back. He stared among the broken pieces of rock and dust. What had he…?

Translucent, white—no, grey. Oozing from the stone, a pale ashy glow. Numbtongue sprang back in alarm. Then he caught himself. It wasn’t a monster. And it wasn’t dangerous. He realized what it was as the memories in his head identified the liquid.

Mana sludge. The liquid slowly ran out of the gap in the wall his pickaxe had made. A slow, dripping substance as thick as paste. But It was semi-translucent and had an odd, inner sparkling quality. As if little motes of light were caught in the liquid.

Numbtongue stared at it, entranced. But if he’d been Pyrite, the older Hobgoblin would have just sighed and shook his head. Mana sludge. Not good. No one touch. Or drink.

“Raw mana. In stone. Bad stone?”

Numbtongue muttered to himself, figuring out how Pyrite would have phrased it. Mana sludge was the Hobgoblin’s word for it. He was well aware the stuff was magical, but to him it was about as appealing as dirt; hardly worth the effort of collecting. A failed mining expedition, in short.

But Numbtongue wasn’t so certain. He studied the raw mana sludge as it dripped to the ground. Some of the Rockmites scurried closer and then backed away, probably sensing the magic the stuff held. So did Numbtongue. He reached out and felt the slightest tingle in his fingertips as his fingers were bare millimeters away from the surface of the glowing stuff. He tried to recall all that Pyrite knew of it.

“Let’s see. Can’t eat. Will make Goblins horribly sick—goes straight through system. Comes out as…ergh. Touching not too bad, but depending on the color can be dangerous. This is…fine. Tastes like—did he eat everything he ever found?”

The Hobgoblin shook his head. He prodded the mana sludge and found it was neither warm nor cold. Eerily so in fact; it felt strange on his fingers too. Absolutely none of the mana sludge would stick to his fingers. He could feel it, and it almost felt like incredibly smooth stone on his fingers. But unlike water or other liquids, it stuck to nothing but itself. Numbtongue thought Mrsha would love to play with it.

He summed up Pyrite’s notes in his head. Mana sludge. Inedible. Could come in other colors, but generally this color. Useless to Goblins—children would play with it, but mana sludge was hardly better than actual mud, and given the dangers of eating it compared to mud, Pyrite kept it away from them. He’d found no other uses for it. But he did know of its potential.

Yes, potential. That was why Pyrite left it alone. Give the mana sludge years or decades and it would slowly condense, crystalizing. Into mana stones.

“Ah. Name makes sense now.”

Numbtongue nodded. He stared at the vein. He must have tapped into the top of whatever amount of mana sludge there was, because it had already stopped leaking from the hole. And there was clearly more. He frowned.

Yes, if he came back here in a few years, the mana stone would harden, crystalizing into a vessel imbued with magic. The air would take care of that. But given that there was no other mana source about, it would probably turn into a vein of lightly magical quartz-like mana stone. Plentiful, but hardly potent in terms of mana.

Numbtongue didn’t have years to wait, and Pyrite regarded the quartz varieties of mana stones as cheap anyways, so leaving it there didn’t appeal to him. What should he do with it, then?

“Scoop some up. Take it to the [Mages].”

Yes, that was the right choice. Because while Pyrite hadn’t seen much use for the mana sludge before now, he hadn’t ever thought of using it. Mining had been his hobby, and a fairly useless one in his mind until right before his passing. What would he have thought of the stuff now? How might he have used it?

Absently, Numbtongue felt about in his belt pouch. He pulled something out. The light in the caves changed, growing brighter. The purple glow of the mana stone was a consistent light, but it was dim compared to the bright glow of the bright, blue, almost viridian stone Numbtongue held in his hands. He stared at it.

“That’s not a mana stone. This is a mana stone. No. That not mana stone. This is mana stone.”

He smiled as he thought of Pyrite’s reaction to the mana stones used on Erin’s door. He would have called them ‘cheap’. The Hobgoblin only kept the most brilliant of mana stones in his collection, and this one, the brilliant blue stone, had been the one Numbtongue had taken from his mouth. The Hobgoblin studied it.

Pyrite had even known how to cut gems. This one had six facets; it was no perfectly symmetrical stone, but a lopsided gem that nevertheless sparkled, cut cleanly on all sides and polished. Pyrite had enjoyed cutting stones; he’d even done art or made dice out of rubies. A tiny emerald marble for a childhood friend that eventually became part of her necklace. She had died. Numbtongue could remember her smile.

The Hobgoblin dropped the glowing blue stone and pressed his hands against his forehead.

“Stop.”

He could remember the young Goblin’s nickname. He tried to push it away, but the memories flooded into his head. Too many, too fast to repress. Stickhair. She always had sticks in her hair. She was a [Scavenger]. She’d been part of Tremborag’s tribe, one of those sent to scavenge or steal as opposed to raid.

Back when he’d been young, Pyrite had been press-ganged into serving as both [Warrior] and [Scavenger]. Later, he’d become a permanent scavenger when they’d found he had a nose for finding pretty gems. The Goblin hadn’t seen the value in the gems that Tremborag loved so much and his lieutenants adorned themselves with, but he’d squirreled one away and carved it into a gem for Stickhair. And she had smiled, and he’d been struck with that.

They’d had sex on a day in the middle of fall. She’d jumped on him, and he, young and passionate, had wanted the same thing. They were still both growing, and both became Hobs around the same time.

The emerald marble was given a small hole for a necklace she wore, and each time Pyrite brought her a new stone, she would smile and sometimes that led to warm nights. Other times, she or he would find someone else. They were young. But Pyrite remembered the smell of her teeth, plucking a twig from her—

“Stop!”

Numbtongue shouted. The cave rang with sound, and the memories stopped as he pounded his head against the wall. His head burst with pain, and Numbtongue staggered back. But it stopped the memories.

Panting, the Goblin sat down. He stared blankly ahead of him, still remembering another Goblin’s life. His hands shook uncontrollably as he felt at his head.

“Too much. You gave me too much.”

He whispered at Pyrite. He wasn’t angry at him. But that rush of vivid experiences had been too real. The [Bard] sat there, panting, until the soft glow of the two gems and the mana sludge calmed him. He stared at the glowing liquid, felt around on the ground, and picked up the now slightly dusty blue mana stone. Numbtongue stared at it. Then he popped it into his mouth and chewed.

“Ow.”

After a few seconds, Numbtongue spat the mana stone back out. His teeth hurt. The mana stone was way tougher than your average rock. How had Pyrite ever eaten the damn things?

The memories were his gift. The experiences with Stickhair, knowledge of the earth, even information about what everything tasted like and how badly it would mess up your poos—all of it was Pyrite’s gift to Numbtongue. But it was the knowledge of gemstones that the Hobgoblin Chieftain had considered too important to be lost.

What Pyrite had known before his death was this: you could use magic without being a [Mage]. With gemstones. He had consolidated his [Mining Chieftain] class into a [Magestone Chieftain] one. He hadn’t found out the potential of the class, but he had entrusted Numbtongue with the knowledge.

But Numbtongue feared he wasn’t the Goblin that Pyrite was. He didn’t think as deeply. He had not lived as long. And he had no idea how to use the powers of the gemstones, even if he could figure out a way to crunch this one with his teeth.

How would a [Bard] use magical gemstones? How would anyone?

Numbtongue sighed. He wiped the saliva-covered blue gemstone on his clothes, spat out the dirt in his mouth, and had a thought. Maybe…he was doing this wrong.

“Pyrite ate gemstones. But Pyrite was a big eater. I don’t eat rocks. Anymore. So…what do I do?”

Numbtongue’s eyes went to the guitar lying on the ground. A Rockmite was investigating it. The Hobgoblin stood up, and the insect fled. He picked up the guitar and ran his claws down the strings.

A guitar. An instrument made by Gnolls, but very similar to the ones in Erin’s world. In fact, he recalled Erin comparing his guitar to one she was familiar with.

“Except, instead of an electric guitar, yours is actually electric, Numbtongue! Uh, don’t play it close to me. I don’t like static electricity.”

He smiled a bit and played a simple chord, plucking the strings with his long fingers. His nails were untrimmed, but Numbtongue had carefully bit them shorter on his playing hand because it made a better sound. Unlike Drakes, Goblins had something closer to Human fingers. Numbtongue had no idea how a Drake would manage a string instrument with their claws and very reptilian nails. He was impressed Gnolls could play, but then, their paws were actually quite dexterous.

“Hmm. Song. Song…”

Numbtongue stared blankly ahead as he searched for a proper tune. Then he had it. His random strumming became intentional. He began to play a quick, snappy tune. And the sound that came from his guitar changed.

[Electric Chords]. No [Lightning Melody] because Numbtongue didn’t want to call down lightning in the cave, even if he could. But the sound the guitar gave out crackled, and the chords changed to something almost approaching the crackling of thunder.

The silent cave filled with sound as Numbtongue began to play faster. It was a self-taught riff; everything he played was self-taught, actually. He’d learned a number of songs from Erin’s home, but he’d had to come up with the melodies based on her vague humming. Numbtongue played low on the chords, an echoing beat.

He was trying to call on the power of the stone resting on top of the guitar. Numbtongue could see the gemstone glowing, a bright viridian. But was it glowing brighter? Was he calling on the magic?

Time to really play. The Hobgoblin’s fingers danced faster. And a different kind of light began to fill the cave.

Flashes of bright lightning. Sparks of electricity shot from the frets as Numbtongue played them, lighting up the cave in flashes of light. The simple strings flashed with blue lightning, lighting up the guitar. The Rockmites in the area scurried away in alarm.

Numbtongue grinned wildly. The cave rolled with sound for a minute. Then five. His playing reached a fever’s pitch. He began the most complex solo he knew, and the sound roared. And the gem—

Did nothing. Numbtongue stopped, looking at the blue gemstone with a miffed expression. He prodded it hopefully.

Nothing. Okay. Well, that was a new piece of information. Music was not the answer. At least, music from his guitar wasn’t doing anything to the stone. Numbtongue sighed and looked around.

“Maybe just ask the [Mages] what the mana stones do. Why didn’t I do that earlier? Oh. I don’t like Pisces. Or Falene.”

Too much sniffing and rolling of the eyes. And that superior tone. Numbtongue grumbled to himself. He actually liked Revi, though. Moore scared him. Ceria was…attractive. Anyone who knew what bugs tasted like was attractive to Goblins. But Numbtongue, er, liked her dirty blonde hair, it not being a color among Goblin hair. As for Typhenous—

“Gah!”

Numbtongue’s foot suddenly encountered a jolt and went numb. He leapt backwards, swearing, and stared at what his foot had just touched. What was—

The mana sludge? The mana sludge had shocked him! The Hobgoblin stared at it. The little puddle of liquid had just given him a jolt of electricity! Why? And—was it…yellower?

Yes! It was! In fact, it was now a very light yellow, and Numbtongue could swear the little lights caught in the liquid were now moving faster. Almost as if…he squinted, keeping his face back from the liquid. Almost as if there were tiny jolts of lightning running through the stuff now.

Slowly, curiously, Numbtongue reached out. He hesitated, but he’d already touched it once. So, carefully, he brought his finger closer, closer—

About two inches away from the mana sludge, Numbtongue saw a blue bolt of electricity arc out of the stuff and hit his finger. He jerked his hand back, swearing. It was electrified! He’d just gotten another jolt!

Shocking stuff. Numbtongue sat back, rubbing his ironically numb finger and foot and thinking. Well, he’d just turned the mana sludge into another variant Pyrite was familiar with. If the mana sludge was different colors, it had different effects. For instance, the Hobgoblin had once found a red variant of the stuff that had been so hot he could set fires with it. He’d had a wonderful time using it as an impromptu fire starter until an unfortunate incident with a forest…

“Electricity. Guitar. [Electric Chords]. Mana sludge.”

Numbtongue stared at the stuff. He stared at his guitar, and the strings which no longer sparked with lightning. Then he stared at the mana sludge. He grinned. He was going to need a jar. And…gloves.



——



The tavern was called Tails and Scales. Or maybe it was a pub. Erin wasn’t one for socializing in either, so she had no idea what the difference was. Nor did she like beer, a fact that had vaguely offended some of her friends. And her father. But Erin liked the drink in front of her. It was some kind of rum mixed with a sweet, chilled liquid that was separate from the rum. Every time Erin took a gulp, it ran down her throat, burning and sweet.

A bit of food went in her stomach as well. Bits of chicken, breaded and glazed, sprinkled with bits of crunchy pork. Each bite was delectable, and Erin felt it warming her up. But the food didn’t settle in her stomach or weigh her down; if anything, she felt more awake with each bite.

It was probably thanks to a Skill. And the drink was doing something to Erin’s mood as well. Each gulp made her feel better. She looked across the bar at a Gnoll with black fur streaked a bit with grey. He was a [Bartender]. Rufelt. And sitting next to Erin was Lasica, a [Chef]. The two were a married couple. They’d dragged Erin about the city before revealing they owned a very popular establishment. In the same business as Erin.

And they’d called her a rookie. Erin was half-fixated on that, half-frowning over something she’d realized, and a third half was listening to a commotion outside. Someone was shouting—several someones, actually.

“Wait, rookie?”

Erin looked at Rufelt. The Gnoll grinned at her, baring his teeth in a Gnoll’s smile.

“Oops. Lasica my dear, you might have offended Erin.”

“There’s nothing offensive about speaking the truth. Give me the bright pink stuff with that Balerosian white you did up last night.”

The Drake woman looked unconcerned as she pointed across the bar. Rufelt fetched a proper wineglass out, filled it with a white wine, and then added a shot of a vibrant pink liquid from a glass container. Erin blinked. The glass container had a spigot, also made of glass. And it was one of a row of similar vessels, all containing different liquids. All probably alcoholic. Some were glowing. One was resting on the top of the container, and it had been flipped upside down.

“Here you are. A Jungleblood Sunrise. I wish you’d remember the names.”

Lasica shrugged. She snagged the glass as it spun down the slick counter past Erin. The white wine (which was in fact slightly yellow and green, in defiance of proper sense) and pink liquid were spinning together. The Drake rolled her eyes as she drank half and sighed, visibly relaxing.

“Ancestors, that’s nice. But you know I don’t remember any of the silly names you and your bartending friends come up with. Can I get another? Iced?”

Erin opened her mouth to protest. Several things, in fact, but Rufelt was faster. He snagged another wineglass from behind him as he spun, filled the glass with pink stuff in the same motion, and then pulled open a drawer behind the bar. Erin blinked. Ice cubes, or rather, ice chunks since they weren’t nearly as tidy in form as cubes, appeared in the wine glass. The white wine poured on top, and the glass spun past Erin again.

Literally spinning. She watched as the pink liquid swirled up and the wine swirled downwards, forming a vortex around the ice. The glass came to rest perfectly in front of Lasica, contents still spinning in a miniature vortex. She did not look impressed.

“What is it with you and spinning your drinks recently?”

The Gnoll sighed.

“It looks like a lot of fun. And it is! And it’s not my ‘bartending friends’, love of my life. It’s all [Bartenders]. I didn’t invent the name; a Balerosian [Bartender] came up with Jungleblood Sunrise herself. A pity, because I would have called it something less confusing.”

“Mm. Why do they call it that? This is hardly the color of blood.”

Lasica pointed to the pink and greenish-yellow liquid.

“Uh, excuse me—”

Erin broke off, because she wanted to know the answer. Rufelt shrugged.

“Apparently, it’s not referring to blood, but a type of flower. You see, it weeps its…what would you call the stuff in flowers? Nectar? Yes, the wet stuff. Anyways, it weeps it in the morning, so when the sun rises, it catches the light and looks quite similar to that. Pink on yellow and green.”

“Fascinating. Also, completely pointless.”

Lasica drained her first glass and started on the second. Erin stared between her and Rufelt as he sighed. She waved a hand, and both looked at her. Rufelt grinned sheepishly.

“Excuse me, Erin. We sometimes get lost in ourselves. We’re not used to company before the bar opens.”

“Oh, no problem. Uh—a few questions. First, rookie? Second, I’m not used to people being nice to me and feeding me. That’s my job. Third, we call putting alcohol in ice ‘on the rocks’ where I come from. Do you do that? And fourth—is that stuff floating upside down? Is—is it antigravity alcohol? I’m fine with any of these questions being answered, by the way.”

Both Rufelt and Lasica looked at the upside-down liquid Erin was pointing to. They paused as they considered Erin’s questions. Rufelt eyed his wife. She eyed him back, and her tail wagged a bit, although her lips only moved up slightly. Rufelt stroked his chin thoughtfully.

“On the rocks? Hm. I like that. I think I’ll use that from now on. It has a…good sound to it, yes? And that is one of my magical liquids. I’m not sure about, er, anti-gravity, but it floats! It’ll go straight up, and it’s a devil to mix with drinks unless you can do it right. Want a taste?”

“Can I? Wait, how do I drink it?”

“Let’s find out, shall we?”

Lasica rolled her eyes as Rufelt snagged another tumbler. She leaned over to Erin, smiling a bit. She still had quite a presence, and Erin wondered if all middle-aged Drakes were like that. Tekshia was certainly intimidating, although she was even more no-nonsense and somewhat abrasive, too.

“We didn’t intend to drag you around, Erin. I apologize again for that, but we had good cause. We did want to meet you—that was always part of the plan. As for taking care of you, well, why not?”

“But that’s my job.”

Erin protested weakly. Rufelt was mixing two liquids in the tumbler before he approached the upside-down stuff. He paused there and took a breath. Lasica watched him with Erin.

“So? We see someone in distress, we usually invite them in for a drink. Especially if it looks like they’re having a bad day. Like you. I could practically sense that you needed some of my pick-me-up food. Have another bite, by the way. It’s [Comfort Food], designed to help. But save your appetite; I’ll make you a splendid lunch. Rufelt, you’d better not spill that! What was it, eight gold per fluid ounce?”

“Eight—”

Erin stared at the liquid in horror. But Rufelt only glared mildly back at his wife.

“Thank you for reminding me. Just give me one second. And here—”

His hand blurred. Erin saw the tumbler go up, and the half-filled liquid turned upside down. But before gravity could take effect, the spigot opened and a splash, just a splash of the upside-down liquid (bronze, semi-transparent, and quite quick), came flying upwards. It mixed with the other liquid, and Rufelt twisted the tumbler right-side up.

“Mixing.”

He had a strange metal rod about the size of a thermometer in his paw. He stirred the drink vigorously and then placed it on the bar and slid it towards Erin. She stared at the liquid—the drink was close to black.

“It’s basic, strong, and a bit sour. You don’t have to finish it, but mixing sugary stuff with the Dwarfrain isn’t something I want to do. But if you’re going to take a sip, make it quick.”

Rufelt advised Erin. She stared at him and then realized the liquid in the cup was rising up!

“It’s floating!”

“Well, what did you expect?”

“But how do I…”

Erin didn’t bother to wait for a reply. She lifted the cup, and the rising liquid floated up towards her lips. She sipped the stuff, made a face because it was strong and bitter, like one of those stupid lagers that Bevussa liked, and then gagged.

“Itsh!”

“Keep swallowing. Don’t let it win! It’ll give up after a second.”

Lasica laughed as Erin’s throat tried to force the liquid down and it kept coming back up. At first, Erin was horribly reminded of throwing up, but then it was actually sort of fun—until the liquid lost whatever was keeping it floating and it went straight down her throat. She began coughing as Lasica patted her on the back.

“Fun, isn’t it? Rufelt has a collection of these silly drinks. He’s not just a [Bartender], after all. He’s got an advanced version of the class.”

“Agh! It burns! What do you mean, advanced version? What class is it?”

“That would be telling, I’m afraid.”

Rufelt snagged the tumbler and took a drink of the liquid threatening to float past Erin’s head. She let him have it; one sip was enough.

“Telling classes is a bit too personal for people we’ve just met. Even an [Innkeeper] in the same line of work. But I’ll tell you for nothing that both he and I have…rare versions of our class. The kind you only get past Level 30. And so do you, I imagine. Rookie.”

Lasica offered Erin a sip of her drink. Erin took it, coughed again, and sighed.

“That’s good. I’m not a rookie! Am I?”

“You might have a lot of levels, Miss Human. But you seem like one to us. And it’s not about levels. Here. I know you can probably drink anything I serve all day and all night—my [Bartender]’s senses are telling me you’re probably immune to my alcohol—but have this.”

Erin blinked at the next cup that appeared in front of her. She sniffed it, tasted it experimentally, and found…it was water. She began drinking it down as Lasica offered her another peanut butter and chocolate ball.

“Snack?”

“That’s chocolate. Where’d you get that? No one I talked to knew anything about it.”

The Drake blinked in surprise. Rufelt glanced over as he cleaned the finished cups.

“You know about chocolate? Well, color me impressed. This came right from Baleros. A new thing—well, relatively. We’ve had cocoa for ages, but some [Chef] over there started experimenting, and, well, I got some with my latest shipment. We’ve a deal that sends goods straight from a [Merchant] in Baleros to the city. One of the things you need to acquire. Rookie.”

Erin peered at Lasica. She opened her mouth, and the Drake popped a piece of her breaded chicken in there. Erin chewed, at first with mild outrage, but then she realized Lasica was treating her like a kid. Rather than make her mad, it was almost pleasant. There was something affectionate in Lasica’s teasing tone. And she was twice Erin’s age. Then Erin thought about what she’d said.

“Wait, a trade route from Baleros? That has to be…”

“Thousands of miles? Difficult to get someone to regularly ship from the ports all the way to Pallass? Expensive? If your answer was all of the above, that’s only half of the problems. Whenever the Drowned Folk start raiding ships, or there’s a war, we get cut off.”

“Which is why we have a huge store of everything Lasica and I need in a part of Melinni’s private warehouse. The one we didn’t show you and not many people know about. That’s something else you need. I’d say a warehouse or some kind of area with runes of preservation first, right, Lasica? Connections second.”

“Oh, agreed. Here’s what most [Innkeepers] we know agree on, Erin. The ones who’re actually smart, anyways. First, you need to lock down a healthy supply of food. Not just enough for next week, but for months. Enough rare ingredients to weather any storm. Of course, you’ll expand your inventory slowly—”

Rufelt held up a cautioning paw.

“—don’t rush your rare ingredients. We did that once and sold for far too little. Focus on, say, a basement with runes of preservation and basics like milk, grain, meat—enough for six months based purely off that. It is vital in case the supply of food plummets.”

“How?”

Erin couldn’t imagine that happening in a city like Pallass, with huge storehouses full of preserved food. Lasica grimaced.

“Easier than you think. Melinni’s got runes of preservation, but they don’t stop insects. In fact, fresh meat makes it worse. You can still contaminate food—it just stays preserved, which means entire batches of meat we thought were good can be off if, say, the cattle were all sick. And in times of plague or general famine…”

“Pallass can feed itself, but with millions of mouths, it still has to ration. And it does not open its gates to other cities. It couldn’t if it wanted to. There are simply too many mouths out there. I wish we had more storehouses, but Melinni and Pallass’ [Quartermasters] are working off of centuries of investment. So food first. At the very least, you won’t be short of meat or so on during the winter. Oh, and stock up on firewood. I hear that’s an issue around Liscor.”

Rufelt sighed. Erin looked between him and Lasica. The shouting from outside was still going on. Someone was calling for the Watch.

“Um. I have a basement full of corpses, so I don’t know about the basement thing. But I have a [Field of Preservation] around my inn—”

“What?”

Lasica shot up in her chair. She stared at Erin and then at her husband. Rufelt’s jaw dropped open. The next moment he was glancing at the door. He leaned forwards, and Erin leaned back a bit at the expression on his face.

“A word of advice, Erin? Don’t mention that again. There are people who would target you for that Skill alone.”

“Field of—that is such a cheap Skill—”

Lasica groaned and covered her face with her claws. She looked at Rufelt.

“Imagine how much gold we could have saved with that! And how many accidental—the number of times we’ve had a rune scratched and not noticed it, I can’t count!”

Rufelt nodded. He looked at Erin seriously.

“I appreciate the trust, but I don’t think that was trust so much as naiveté, Miss Erin. Be warned; we could have been the wrong couple to tell that to.”

“Oh. I’m sorry. I didn’t realize.”

Erin blushed. Rufelt was scolding her, albeit gently. The Gnoll nodded, still half-frowning.

“No other mention of Skills, either. I’d hate for a wagging tail or tongue to reveal something truly important.”

“Basement full of corpses?”

Lasica had caught onto the first bit Erin had said. She stared at Erin. The [Innkeeper] gulped.

“I’m not a serial killer! I, uh, just have a Selphid guest—”

“—and she wants to store bodies in your inn. That’s fairly ingenious. Melinni actually had a similar offer, but she wasn’t about to have dead bodies lying next to her merchandise. But in an inn? If you were in Baleros, I’d first ask how much you wanted to be the Selphid-only inn. But if you were fine with that, you could make a fortune just renting your place out to dead bodies. But that’s a specialized type of [Innkeeper] I don’t think you want to get into.”

The Drake [Chef] shook her head. Erin hesitated.

“Wait, so what kind of [Innkeeper] do you think I should be? Because I’m…er…well, I can’t say, but I’m something.”

Rufelt eyed Erin.

“Hm. A class consolidation? That means you’re at least Level 20. No—don’t correct me.”

Lasica nodded. There was a slight flush to her cheek scales, whether from excitement or the drink, Erin couldn’t tell.

“This is all above-board advice, Erin. We like you, but we’ve known you for about an hour. So let’s continue down the list, shall we, Rufelt? First storage. You should invest in some runes of preservation. They’re worth three or four times the gold you spend, even if it’s a pain to get an [Enchanter]. And if some Ancestors-damned, lucky [Innkeeper] gets an entire field of—”

She put her head down on the bar. Rufelt patted his wife on the arm and took over.

“You might have levels, Miss Solstice, but an inn, tavern, or any establishment like ours thrives on more than that. You need to be original. From what I understand, your magic door is a first step there, but you should cultivate some signature dishes. Lasica and I boast the widest variety of dishes in Pallass, mainly because of our Balerosian ingredients. Plus, alcohol and dinner being prepared by experts in the field is a tough combination to beat.”

“Even if a certain [Innkeeper] can give his clientele a night worthy of any [Lord] in a Terandrian mansion for a fraction of the price.”

Lasica grumbled under her breath. She sat upright, sighing.

“But I mean what I said about finding a connection. Ours was a chance meeting, but we sprang on the opportunity to have a highly-leveled friend in Baleros. And it’s paid off for us—and him. Cultivate friends. Your clientele is a good place to start, but there are always people looking out to make strong friends, and an [Innkeeper] as famous as you might start getting some offers. Be careful of whom you trust.”

“But don’t turn down a good opportunity. We could have been affiliated with one of the largest Gnoll tribes in the continent if we hadn’t let that opportunity slip us by.”

Rufelt sighed. Erin’s head swiveled from him to his wife. She felt like she needed to write this all down!

“What’s next, Rufelt?”

“Security? Guests. Hrm…ah, investing money.”

“Right! Security. You want—”

“There he is, officer! Walking around, just like that! Arrest him! It shouldn’t be allowed! There are children on the streets! I don’t care if he’s—”

A loud voice from outside cut the Drake off. She frowned at the door then shook her head.

“Ah. I think I know who that is.”

“Who?”

Erin peered at the door. There were glass windows, and she could see a crowd gathered outside. The loud voice had come from right outside the door, and Erin saw several of Pallass’ [Guardsmen] escorting someone past them. Guardsmen for a reason as it turned out. Erin saw a figure in the center of them, being pushed forwards. Two of the [Guardsmen] were holding a blanket up, but it slipped, and she caught a glimpse of…

“Aw.”

“Dead gods!”

“Hey.”

Erin and Rufelt recoiled, the girl in shock, the Gnoll in disgust. Lasica just raised her brows.

The Drake being arrested was very naked. He had dusky yellow scales, and he was slim. Erin could hear him protesting loudly to the [Guardsmen].

“I just misplaced my clothes! It was an accident! I would have put them on. Eventually.”

The [Sergeant], or whomever was leading the group, glared at his ward, making sure only to meet his eyes.

“Yeah, yeah. How many times is this? Come on, you’re spending another night in the cells. Move it along, people! Nothing to see here.”

There was a burst of laughter from outside, and the [Sergeant] flushed. A female voice—a Gnoll, in fact—shouted loudly.

“There’s everything to see! This is absurd! Disgraceful…”

Erin stared as the nudist Drake was finally taken out of view. She turned to Lasica. She looked amused and resigned. Rufelt was just shaking his head.

“Who was that? Or what was that? No, wait. My question is: is that normal?”

“Only if he’s about.”

Rufelt grumbled to himself. Lasica nodded. With a mix of shame and twisted civic pride, she pointed at the door.

“Erin, that was our resident Named Adventurer who just got arrested. Saliss of Lights. I’d explain, but…okay, security. You want at least a few good [Bouncers], [Guards], or whatever. I heard a rumor you’ve got Hobgoblins working at your inn?”

“I—I did. I only have one now. But hold on, that was—”

“Okay. Well, you want someone. Even if you have Skills, you want someone. That goes for staffing as well. Finding a good support [Barmaid] or [Barkeep] or someone to take up the slack really helps. I suppose it’s less pressing for you since you are an [Innkeeper]—”

“A Named Adventurer? And he’s a stripper?”

“That would imply he normally has clothes. Right. I don’t know if you know this, Erin, but [Innkeeper] is a generalist class in a sense. You see, it’s not like a [Bartender]. Rufelt has some overlap with your job, but his area of influence and tasks are more specialized. So he’ll make far better alcohol than you, but he doesn’t have a skill that affects the entire tavern. Or gives him a stupid field.”

“But I can make some fantastic drinks. And some of them have effects. Like the one I gave you at the start. I can cheer someone up, make a drink that gives energy or knocks someone out, and I can even handle liquids that normal bartenders can’t. For instance, a Level 20 [Bartender] couldn’t even mix that floating drink I gave you.”

Erin stared at both husband and wife. She looked at the door, pointed at it, and gave up. The Drake and Gnoll stared at her, friendly, helpful for no other reason than…they were good people. And utterly determined not to answer any questions about the naked Named Adventurer. Erin sighed.

“Okay. Fine. What about guests? And, uh, do you have a piece of paper?”



——



“…and a dedicated clientele is important. You can be open to all, like we are, but you’d better be the best. From what you’ve said, it sounds like you want adventurers as your main revenue base, is that right?”

“I…I mean, it’d be nice.”

An hour later, Erin’s head hurt, but she had two full pages of cramped and slightly blotched notes from all Rufelt and Lasica had told her. They were full of tips, and Erin had realized she was full of questions.

“I didn’t know there was so much to know. I mean, about being an [Innkeeper]. I just got my class from cleaning a room. In an inn, obviously, but still. I had no idea how much I’ve missed.”

Rufelt laughed lightly.

“There’s nothing you need to know about being an [Innkeeper], Erin. That’s why you’ve done so well. But there’s experience, tips from others. And somehow, we doubted the [Innkeepers] in Liscor or Celum had been helping you out.”

Lasica nodded, absently reading over Erin’s shoulder.

“Adventurers travel about, which is a problem, but your door solves some of that. But you do need better security. And your golem idea is novel, I’ll grant you, but it is a pricey investment. If you break one, that’s a lot of gold gone in a moment. Just look into some [Guards].”

“Got it. Maybe the Antinium?”

Lasica and Rufelt shuddered. Erin looked up.

“They’re nice! Really!”

“I find that very hard to believe. But then, I lived through the Antinium Wars. I do hear the Hive around Liscor is different from the rest. But let’s just say I won’t test that theory.”

“I’m going to bring Pawn through to Pallass someday. With Numbtongue. And Mrsha too, I guess. Uh—okay, that’s written down.”

Lasica squinted at the parchment.

“If you say so. Your handwriting is atrocious.”

“Hey, I’m drunk!”

“No you’re not.”

“…You’re right. Okay, what about the innkeepers? Why wouldn’t they help me?”

Lasica and Rufelt exchanged a look.

“Ooh. She doesn’t know, Lasica. In that case, we should probably introduce her later.”

“To the good [Innkeepers] in Pallass, at least. For another day.”

Erin waved a hand in front of their faces. She didn’t mind the husband-wife talk they did, or the fact that Lasica’s tail twined around Rufelt when they stood together, but—okay, it was obnoxious sometimes.

“Know what?”

“Innkeepers talk amongst each other. That includes tavern owners and people who manage hostels and so on, by the way. It depends on where you are and who you know, but I could, say, get in touch with someone in Celum if I had an issue that extended there.”

Lasica explained matter-of-factly to Erin. Rufelt nodded.

“It’s all informal—nothing like the Merchant’s Guild or Mage’s Guild or so on—but it does exist. In some cities, [Innkeepers] work together. Like in Celum.”

“Liscor’s not like that. But they do share something. And we know this because both groups don’t like you very much. Celum especially.”

Lasica sighed. Erin blinked at them. She remembered Miss Agnes mentioning there was a group of [Innkeepers] in Celum, but it had slipped her mind. Rufelt nodded sympathetically.

“They might cause you trouble, but you shouldn’t worry too much, yes? You have a magic door and they don’t. Just bear it in mind.”

“Great. Something else to write down. Thank you, by the way.”

Erin grumbled to herself. Lasica laughed lightly. She looked at Erin, then at the window.

“Hm. We’re into early evening. Almost time to open up. And I need another drink.”

“Water for you. You need to cook Erin one proper meal, and one more drink would make you too tipsy for your best. Besides, we have a business to run tonight.”

Sternly, Rufelt handed Lasica a glass of water. She sighed, but sipped from it. Erin looked at the two.

“No, seriously. This is so helpful. Thanks for being so nice. And I—I didn’t do anything to deserve it.”

“Besides save a city? Besides building your inn from practically nothing? Don’t be silly, girl.”

Lasica walked past Erin. She had a wet cloth in hand, and she was polishing something in the center of the room. Tails and Scales was very bar-focused, but it had a number of tables. And, Erin had overlooked this, one of the tables in the center of the room was quite strange. It had no chairs around it, and the top was flat and black. It was a solid block, not a table at all, in fact. Erin stared as Lasica checked something, opening a door in the side of the black…whatever it was.

“But—still. Thank you. No one’s been so nice to me before. I should—I mean, I can’t pay you, but I’ll return the favor—”

Erin stammered. She caught Rufelt looking at her oddly. Lasica just shook her head and turned to filling the door with something. Wait. Coal? But Erin was looking at Rufelt’s odd expression.

“What?”

“Erin Solstice. We don’t want money. And you may consider this a favor, but we would rather you didn’t. We did this because we wanted to meet you. Even without that, if I had seen you crying on the street, I would have done just this. Do I need a reason to make you a drink?”

The Gnoll looked at Erin. The young woman hesitated.

“No. Of course not. It’s just…it’s been so long since I met someone who just wanted to…help me.”

Rufelt’s eyes widened a bit. He looked up, and Erin knew he was meeting his wife’s eyes.

“Has it really been that long?”

“No. Yes. I’ve met great people. Who helped me out a lot. The Horns, the Halfseekers…but they’re guests. The last time someone just…helped me when I was in pain was—maybe it was Klbkch and Relc?”

A soft intake of breath from behind Erin.

“The Slayer and the Gecko of Liscor?”

Erin laughed at that. She felt incredibly sad and welcomed at the same time.

“No. Just Relc and Klbkch! Klbkch was—he gave me a healing potion for my hand. And Relc? He’s a jerk and a good guy sometimes. And I think he’s better. He killed the closest thing Numbtongue had to a father, and Klbkch is really mean to Pawn. But they helped me without asking for anything. So did Krshia, but that was back then. Since then, I help people. I have friends.”

“But you’re the one who supports them most of the time, isn’t that so?”

“I guess.”

Erin looked down at the bar’s countertop. It was very smooth. Very beautiful wood. She heard a footstep and then felt a light touch on her shoulder. Lasica looked down at her.

“That’s what an [Innkeeper] is. They give shelter to their guests. The best ones do more. I’ve never wanted the job. A [Cook] only has to do one thing. A [Barkeep]’s job ends with their shift. I think you need a break, Erin.”

“I do. I know.”

Erin stared down at her inky, messy notes. A paw reached out and gently tugged them away from her. Rufelt put them behind him.

“Well, Erin. Consider this an invitation. Whenever you wish, for whatever reason, you may leave your inn and come here. Don’t worry about debts or payment. When you need someone to look after you, come here. You’ll always be welcome in Tails and Scales.”

“What he said.”

Erin looked up at a smiling Drake face. She saw Rufelt leave the bar. And her eyes overflowed. But they weren’t bad tears. She was just a bit overwhelmed. Just a bit tired. So Erin cried at the bar as Rufelt panicked a bit, and Lasica found her a warm towel to wipe her face on. Then there was another comforting drink.

And the tavern opened. By the time the first Drake [Barkeep], one of Rufelt’s apprentices, came in, Erin’s tears were dried. Two [Servers], a Gnoll and Drake, joined the mix. All of them introduced themselves to Erin.

“This is my apprentice, Usshi.”

Rufelt introduced the [Barkeep], who gave Erin a smile that made you want to smile back. And the two [Barmaids]. People were already waiting at the door when the Gnoll [Server]—a class for someone who was just starting out their career in that area—opened the door.

“Erin Solstice. We meet again.”

The young woman blinked at Maughin and several of his fellow [Smiths] and apprentices. She stood up to greet him, then Xif, and to Lasica’s displeasure, Melinni. They’d all come to talk more about the Pallass issue, but after a quick discussion where Lasica leaned in, they didn’t invite Erin. They filled the tables, talking to Lasica as more Drakes, Gnolls, Dullahans, and even a Garuda couple came in.

Some were [Mages]. Others [Scribes], [Weavers], [Potters], and others that Lasica and Rufelt knew by name. There was even a [Hauler] who’d reached such a high level that he’d become a [Cargomaster]. The Garuda pair were [Aerial Dancers]. Erin met them all. Rufelt served drinks, some plain shots, others glowing, magical, wine and spirits and, occasionally, juice.

He did it quickly, with a flourish, sometimes suggesting a change in the order that was always accepted. He knew his customers. And he was flawless—except for his fondness for spinning the drinks about. He only stopped that when Maughin complained about the third in a row.

And then Lasica started cooking some appetizers or an early dinner. She didn’t go into the kitchen. Rather, the kitchen came to her. A [Line Cook] came in to learn from her, and Erin saw why.

“A hibachi grill!”

“A hot plate table. Hands off.”

Lasica corrected Erin. She had been throwing coal into the furnace at the bottom of the table, and now she lit it. Erin stared as she tossed some oil on the table and then some thin strips of meat. Almost at once, they began to cook, and she flipped them onto a plate.

“It’s—but—how? That’s from home! From my…how did you—”

Rufelt grinned at Erin’s face.

“If there was ever a way to burn their food, Drakes would surely find it. Just be glad Lasica’s not cooking flambé. And order what you want! She can cook you up a wonderful bowl of these noodles with some meat and fried vegetables…”

“C-can I have an egg?”

Lasica laughed. Erin had her egg. She had a lot of food, actually. Her stomach seemed to have forgotten its usual dimensions as she ate Lasica’s hot, delicious food greedily. And she found herself sitting next to Maughin, then Xif, and then others, talking to them. Not as an [Innkeeper] did to the guests, but as someone with all the time on their hands to pester Maughin about what was under his armor, or ask Xif about magical food, a topic he was only too happy to work with her on.

Erin laughed as Rufelt showed off at his bar, serving a flaming drink to a brave Gnoll, and then a crowd favorite—an alcohol that turned the entire glass invisible too. They let him make six drinks and then searched for them. Erin found one, and it turned her tongue green as a bonus surprise.

Then the Dullahan walked in. Not one of Maughin’s [Smith] friends. Her armor was ceramic, painted white and green, and very beautiful. And she held a cello.

“Ah. Our [Cellist]. I almost forgot we’d asked her to come in tonight.”

Rufelt leaned over the bar. Erin stared as the Dullahan musician set up. There was a little stand for her head with a pillow, a stool, and she was ready. She sat at a corner of the tavern, almost like an afterthought.

Until she began to play. And Erin realized she had a Skill. There were other instruments playing with the Dullahan. But she was alone, and the song that filled the tavern was slow and beautiful.

It changed the atmosphere of the room. From energetic, the room grew thoughtful. And then Lasica abandoned her grill. She let the [Line Cook] take over, and Rufelt stepped out from behind his bar. They moved to a clear spot in the room and began to dance.

They weren’t the only ones. The Garuda got up, and so did some other couples. Erin looked around. She saw the Dullahan [Cellist] play on as the tables, and chairs were pushed back. The Drakes and Gnolls danced slowly, not with skill for the most part, but just lost in each other. The music invited that kind of slow, quiet moment. Those who didn’t dance just sat back, drinks in hand, or ate quietly, savoring the music.

On her stand, the Dullahan’s eyes were closed. Her body played on. Erin envied the quiet, serene look on her face. And she envied the way Lasica and Rufelt smiled at each other as they occupied the center of their home.

“Doesn’t it make you jealous? As Gnoll and Drake couples go, theirs is one of the most famous in Pallass. Everyone knows of Tails and Scales. Normally, you have to be invited to come in by a regular.”

Erin looked around. Usshi, the young [Barkeep], was serving drinks. She looked at Erin.

“A drink?”

“Oh—what should I get? Uh…”

Erin didn’t want to ask for something that would require Rufelt. Usshi waved a claw.

“Ask me for anything. Rufelt has a Skill that passes on some of his talents to me. [Bartender’s Gift] or something. I only hope I won’t need it. And you don’t need to pay anyways. How about something cold? Have you seen this?”

The Drake pulled a tumbler out and filled it with some rum and juice before Erin could protest. Then she went over to a counter in the back of the bar. Erin stared as she placed the tumbler of alcohol on it. Erin saw the sides of the tumbler frost over—the [Barkeep] took it off and quickly handed it to Erin.

“Ice-cold. And just wait—”

She pointed. To Erin’s astonishment, the alcohol hadn’t turned entirely to ice. Rather, it had become a slushy. Usshi handed Erin a spoon and wooden straw. Erin nearly cried again because it was from home. She stayed in the tavern, drinking, eating, talking. And for one evening, Erin forgot she was an [Innkeeper].



——



Numbtongue eventually got the electrified mana sludge into an empty bottle with a big cork with the help of some gloves, a small spade to shovel the liquid into the jar, and a lot of patience. And some shocks. But he didn’t mind the effort. He was pleased with himself. So pleased that on the way to the inn and back he didn’t notice the change in the cave. But on his final trip out, he sensed it.

The Rockmites were agitated. They were scurrying up and down the walls. When Numbtongue passed through their main nest for the third time, they turned towards him.

The Hobgoblin froze. Too late, he realized that his performance with the guitar, not to mention the electricity, maybe even the mining, had upset the insects. They had ignored him earlier, but now they were registering him as a threat. They scuttled off the walls and onto the ground.

Run. Or fight. If he could call down lightning here, he could probably fry them all if he didn’t collapse the cave or hit himself. But as Numbtongue was reaching for the guitar and sword he carried, he hesitated. The Rockmites were agitated. But this was their home. Was he going to kill them? He had intruded here.

He looked down at the jar of liquid magic stone he’d wrapped up as the Rockmites advanced on him. It was his. The Rockmites had no need for it. He’d made this. In a way—he’d mined it out of rock with Pyrite’s memories and the help of Erin’s door and the Rockmites—but even so, Numbtongue had stolen this from no one.

It was one of the first things Numbtongue had ever made without stealing. Besides that and music. Was he going to taint it by killing?

“No.”

The word made the Rockmites hesitate. They were advancing in a rolling wave, preparing to surround the Hobgoblin, engulf him in one movement. They held back as he set his burdens down and lifted his guitar. But the strings did not flash with electricity. Numbtongue played slowly. The music was quiet, gentle, not like the hard thunder of earlier.

Because he was no thief. Not a killer. Not even scary. Not here. Not today.

The song that filled the cave was a soft tune at first. Soft, gentle plucking on the strings. So soothing that even the Rockmites sensed something was different. They held back, waiting, confused. And then Numbtongue began to sing.



“It was a flash of white waving

We followed her together

Laughing as if we knew

My brothers came to rest in the mud.”



The tune was slow to come out just right, the words painful. And he played to insects who knew nothing of him. But it didn’t matter. They held still. Numbtongue sang, as he could only do when he was alone. To them, to himself.



“Blood has long spilled

Now and then, again

I’m tired, so I’m asking

When will we stop?”



They approached him and drew away. The Hobgoblin bent, and they scuttled back. He tried to make them understand. He was a [Bard]. If he couldn’t play to all species, both monsters and people, what point was there?



“I came here not to harm you

Or for you to hurt me, listen;

A Goblin asks for peace. Will you agree?”



They did not respond. How could they? Maybe they didn’t even understand. But as Numbtongue kept playing, he walked forwards. He sang, and the Rockmites backed up.

The lyrics didn’t match the tune on the guitar. The pacing was off. Numbtongue improvised the fourth verse. And the fifth. But it didn’t matter. He knew this song by heart.

It was the same song as he’d sung in the inn. It wasn’t about the words. It was the message.

Peace. At least for the moment.

The Rockmites probably barely thought, and they might not even hear Numbtongue’s words as such. But they listened, an audience as he sang a universal song. And they let him go.

If you were cynical, you could have said they were just confused by the music, wary of Numbtongue with guitar in hands. But if you believed, as Numbtongue did, maybe the music had meant something.

“Could use more work. Needs better words.”

He grunted to himself as he approached the door. The purple mana stone went on the door. He opened the door, scowled at the stone wall, and leaned against the cave’s entrance. He closed his eyes.

“Tomorrow I’ll go higher.”

And he played his song again.



——



Late in the evening, Erin Solstice walked back through her door into her inn. Her home.

“I’m not drunk! I just drank a lot of alcohol! But it’s okay since it’s me!”

Erin protested as the surly Drake [Guard] shut the door in her face. She glared at the wooden door.

“Jerk.”

She stuck out her tongue and felt happy about being so silly. She looked back at the door. She’d gone to Pallass looking for…something. Instead, the city had jumped out at her. Surprised her. Made her actually like it this time around. She sighed.

“Okay Pallass, you win round one. But next time? I’m gonna rock your socks! …Do Drakes or Gnolls wear socks?”

Erin was caught up in that thought for a second. She wasn’t drunk, in point of fact. But she was happy. And excited to the point of being silly. No, she’d remembered she could be silly, and she was rejoicing in that fact. She was almost debating opening the door to heckle the Drake some more, then she remembered to set it to purple.

As soon as she did, the door opened. Erin jumped as Numbtongue strode through. He blinked as he nearly ran into her. She smiled up at him.

“Oh. Numbtongue. How was your day?”

The Hobgoblin was dirty, sweaty, and looked tired. But he looked at peace. He hesitated, then gave Erin a half-smile.

“Good. You?”

Erin hesitated. Then she grinned.

“I had a great day. But what happened to you?”

The Hobgoblin hesitated again. He looked around the inn. There was some kind of commotion; everyone was gathered around Apista, and Lyonette was talking with Pisces, Ceria, and Falene for some reason. He shook his head.

“Later. Maybe tonight we can…talk?”

The hopeful look in his eye didn’t pass Erin by. She nodded.

“Tonight. Over a drink? I learned a few recipes, although I have no idea how to make mine fly.”

The Hobgoblin gave Erin an odd look. She laughed. Then she turned.

“Lyonette! Hey guys, what’s up? Anything happen while I was away?”

For some reason, that got her the oddest look. But Erin was too excited to wonder why. She waved her arms, trying to get their attention.

“You’ll never believe what a day I had! Okay, first, I went through into Pallass, and guess what? I met this couple that—”

Erin paused. She stared at the gathered adventurers. They were all blinking at her. Erin’s gaze travelled across them. She stopped on Pisces. He blinked as she pointed at him.

“You could use some abs. You too, Ceria. Typhenous is old so he’s fine, and Moore’s cool since he can lift cows, but the rest of you need to work out.”

Erin turned. Her finger wavered as it went to the other [Mages] in the room. She wasn’t drunk. Definitely not. She definitely hadn’t gotten drunk because she was immune to alcohol, right? Unless she’d turned it off just to see what it was like. That…sounded like something she would do.

The others stared at Erin. Revi opened her mouth, but Moore spoke up.

“Lift a cow? How strong does she think I am? I could use a spell maybe, but with my arms? I’d strain my back!”

“Take it as a compliment, Moore.”

Jelaqua slapped Moore on the shoulder. She laughed, and Erin looked at Lyonette.

“So, did I miss anything?”



——



As Erin listened with open mouth to Lyonette’s story about Apista, Numbtongue presented his mana sludge to Typhenous. The old [Mage]’s eyes popped as he stared at the jar Numbtongue carefully held away from his body in gloved hands.

“You found that in the mountains? Why, it’s—magicore! Revi, come and see!”

The other adventurers looked up, scenting something interesting or profitable. Revi walked over, frowning alternately at Typhenous, the jar, and Numbtongue.

“What? What did you say he found? It looks like yellow goo, Typhenous. Mixed with dirt. Is it valuable?”

The old [Mage]’s voice shook a bit.

“I should imagine? To the right buyers, certainly. How much did you say you found, er, Numbtongue?”

The Hobgoblin met Typhenous’ eyes steadily.

“I didn’t.”

The old [Mage] paused. Then he coughed.

“Of course, of course. I was just curious. You see…it’s just, this sample? It’s raw magicore. That’s the layfolk term for it. It’s more like…unrefined raw mana, in physical form.”

“Incorrect.”

Pisces and Falene both spoke up at once. They glared at each other. Pisces held up a finger, Ceria elbowed him and interrupted Falene as well.

“It’s not raw mana so much as mana-infused rock. Close enough, I know. Shut up, Pisces. Numbtongue, Wistram prizes the stuff. If you apply the right magics to it, you can turn it into a mana stone of unrivaled quality.”

Numbtongue blinked at the magicore. You could? No, that made sense. But it wasn’t something useful to Goblins. Typhenous was staring at it.

“If you were to place a monetary value upon it…there is a difference in quality, but if there were a…a vein of it in the mountains, it might be worth…might I inspect it, ah, Numbtongue?”

The Hobgoblin studied Typhenous for a second. Then he shrugged.

“Here.”

He offered it in one gloved hand to Typhenous. The [Mage] grasped for it greedily and then let out an exclamation of shock.

“Ah!”

The jar tumbled from his hands as the [Mage] snatched his hands back. Numbtongue grabbed it on the way down. He chortled to himself as Typhenous shook out his hands.

“You ass. Typhenous, are you okay? That was hilarious.”

Revi alternated between a glare of concern and an amused expression. Typhenous gave Numbtongue a reproachful look. Ceria blinked at the magicore.

“Huh. I didn’t see that. Looks like it’s picked up some kind of focus. Electric, by the looks of it.”

Pisces sniffed. He opened his mouth, and Falene jumped in. The half-Elf gave Numbtongue a superior look and adopted a lecturing tone to the group.

“Not nearly as valuable, then. Raw magicore is free-form, transmutable. This now has an elemental quality; thus, its potential is shaped.”

She tapped one finger against the glass jar, and Numbtongue noted with irritation that she didn’t let it shock her somehow.

“Of course, any full [Mage] of Wistram would know that. Now, I would take this and—”

Falene went to pluck the glass jar out of Numbtongue’s grip. It didn’t budge. The half-Elf stopped. Numbtongue gave her a grin with all his teeth,

“Mine. Not yours.”

“I was merely making a point. If you’ll let me—”

The jar didn’t budge. Falene let out a slow breath. Ceria looked amused as she glanced at Numbtongue. Then she eyed Falene and jabbed her in the side.

The older half-Elf made a sound and jumped. She glared at Ceria. The [Ice Mage] had an innocent look on her face.

“Sorry, Falene. My hand slipped. But that is Numbtongue’s jar. And he can do what he wants with it. We can’t take it away from a fellow adventurer, can we?”

She gave Typhenous a pointed look. The [Mage] coughed.

“No, no, I just wished to see…may I ask if that was the only sample found though? Please?”

He gave Numbtongue an imploring look. The [Bard] hesitated, then relented.

“No. Probably more. I just hit upper part of vein. Opened hole—there’s more. Raw. This is…different. Made it electric.”

He saw the way the adventurers’ eyes changed at that. Falene glanced over her shoulder at Dawil, as if to signal him. The Dwarf raised a finger.

“I don’t mine! Up yours, pointy ears!”

Typhenous licked his lips.

“…How much more? And Numbtongue, I might be forward in this, but if we could strike a deal for however much more you could find…”

The Goblin bit his lip. He didn’t like thinking about money. It wasn’t something Goblins prized. Erin noticed and broke off from her conversation to ask what all the fuss was about. When she stared at the magicore and gingerly touched it, she yelped.

“Gah!”

“Erin, we said it was electric!”

Ceria looked amused as Erin waved her hand. The [Innkeeper] shrugged, still happily drunk. Or drunk and happy, which was even better.

“I just wanted to find out! Hey, is it toxic or something? What happens if Numbtongue takes it out of the jar?”

The half-Elf scratched her head.

“Toxic? Only if you drink it. Or if it’s giving off fumes. But in the glass jar, it should be fine. It’s not really a liquid, Erin.”

Pisces nodded. He looked down self-importantly at Mrsha and Ksmvr, the only audience he could find.

“Magicore is technically valuable, but I would put it far below gold, above silver in terms of rarity. Certainly not as rare as most gemstones of decent quality, but if Numbtongue could wheel away, say, a barrel of the stuff, he might earn several hundred gold coins for it. At least. If the quality were high, which from the translucency I deduce it is not, he might earn more. You see, magicore is easily appraised at a glance. The translucency, or rather, the lack of any detail marks it as highly unfocused, and it is that lack of focus, the raw potential that [Mages] interested in creating mana stones crave…”

Mrsha blinked up at him. Ksmvr was scribbling notes. He raised a hand.

“Question, Comrade Pisces. What is the use of mana stones outside of Miss Erin’s door? I am aware of their effects as mana reservoirs for [Mages], but have they any other effects?”

“Ah, Ksmvr, I’m glad you asked.”

Pisces smiled self-importantly. He gestured at Erin’s door.

“You see, those stones on Erin’s door are quite poor-quality. Which is good; they need not be more than simple, ah, anchors by which to guide the teleportation spell. But mana stones in general have any number of effects. They can hold an enchantment, allowing a [Mage] to weave his or her spells through the stone to aid in concentration, power mechanisms or fuel artifacts needing magic, or—and this is the most common effect in war—be used as a single-cast spell.”

“Ah, much like an [Alchemist]’s potions.”

Ksmvr nodded. Pisces nodded, and Mrsha nodded as well just to be included.

“Indeed. But mana stones are rarer, and depending on the size and quality of the gem, they can contain very powerful spells. I made a habit of studying a few, ah, in hopes of incorporating them with my undead creations, but sadly only a master [Gem Mage] would be able to use a mana stone without shattering the crystal itself.”

That caught Numbtongue’s attention. He wandered over to Pisces as Typhenous shocked himself again and Erin mused about light bulbs and batteries out loud. The [Necromancer] glanced up at Numbtongue and hesitated.

“Ah. Numbtongue.”

“Pisces.”

The Hobgoblin and [Necromancer] stared at each other for a second. Then Numbtongue reached into his belt pouch.

“You know mana stones? Can you look at this?”

“Well, I am only moderately studied in the subject. But I suppose I could look at—”

Pisces inhaled as he saw the glittering blue mana stone in Numbtongue’s palm. Half the adventurers turned their heads again. Typhenous craned his head, but it was Falene who exclaimed.

“Let me see that!”

This time, Numbtongue didn’t protest. He held out the stone, and Falene hesitated a second before holding her hand out. Numbtongue’s eyes narrowed, but he dropped the mana stone into her palm. The half-Elf paused.

“Thank you.”

She stared down at the mana stone and held it up to the light. Pisces, scowling, tried to see, but the half-Elf accidentally moved to get a better view and cut him off. Then she stared sharply at Numbtongue.

“Where did you get this?”

“From a friend.”

Numbtongue met her eyes without blinking. Falene frowned.

“Do you have any more?”

He gave her a Goblin shrug. Falene pursed her lips.

“If you do, I will buy them from you.”

“Let me see! Is that a pure mana stone? Without defect?”

“As Numbtongue addressed the question to me, I should see first. Miss Skystrall? I believe—Miss Skystrall?”

Falene held the stone out of reach of the other two [Mages] who squabbled over it. Ceria covered her eyes, and Revi pulled Typhenous back, hissing at him.

“Stop embarrassing yourself!”

But Falene’s attention was all on Numbtongue. When he reluctantly showed her another of Pyrite’s remaining stones, she very nearly gasped. She made him an instant offer, a number that made Erin’s jaw drop. Numbtongue just shook his head.

“Mine. I don’t want to sell.”

“But these are of no use to you. Numbtongue, is it? Listen to me. If you desire gemstones, I can provide them. But these are worth far more than simple jewels. These are high-grade mana stones. You have no idea what focus they have—or what use they might be. In the possession of a [Mage], they could be quite valuable. But they’re of no use to a non-[Mage], let alone—”

She closed her mouth abruptly. Numbtongue, who could fill in missing words, gritted his teeth. The inn fell silent. Erin glared.

A tankard banged at a table in the corner of the room. Falene and Numbtongue turned, and Dawil, sitting with Ylawes, Halrac, and Seborn, all of whom hadn’t deigned to get up, pointed at his companion. The Dwarf’s voice was a rumble.

“Falene, you’re a half-wit.”

The half-Elf’s cheeks turned red. She waited, eyes flashing at Dawil, but he only took a long drink from his tankard. Then he looked at Numbtongue.

“That’s all I wanted to add. Sorry about her. She’s slow. Carry on.”

Numbtongue grinned. He looked at Falene.

“Mine.”

He held out a hand. After a second, she dropped it into his palm. Typhenous cleared his throat.

“I would like to make an offer, Miss Skystrall’s notwithstanding—”

“Hey. What about us?”

Ceria raised her voice. She looked at Pisces.

“We could use those, right?”

“If one was so inclined…and we have ample funds…”

Pisces’ voice trailed off as he recalled where his team had gotten the funds from. Revi rolled her eyes. She looked at Numbtongue.

“You could just smash it.”

Everyone stared at her. Revi raised her hands.

“What? You could. I don’t know a lot about mana stones or advanced magical theory. [Summoner], remember? But I know some things, and I know that you can trigger a mana stone by smashing it. Looks like that one has a focus. So…keep it and smash it if a monster attacks. Who knows? You might get lucky.”

“That is the most idiotic—”

Falene ducked as Dawil threw an empty mug at her. She pointed, and it zoomed back towards his face. Ylawes batted it down with a reproachful look. Falene pursed her lips, but fell silent. Pisces coughed.

“As Miss Skystrall said—”

“Oh dead gods, not more [Mage] talk. Please say it in simple words, Pisces. Or I’ll hit you.”

Yvlon looked up from her table where she was dicing with Jelaqua and Moore. The [Necromancer] sighed.

“Fine. Rock goes smash, something happens. But no one can tell what. That stone could simply dissipate. Or explode. Or…”

He waved his hands and glared at Yvlon. Mrsha waved her paws as well, looking excited at the idea. Erin eyed the stone and edged back from it a bit. Numbtongue frowned. He knew all of this—okay, parts. He wanted to know how to use mana stones without being a [Mage]. He looked at Revi again.

“Okay. I can break the stone and get…something random. What about breaking it with my teeth?”

Revi stared at him.

“You mean…eating it? That sounds like the dumbest idea I could think of. I guess it would do something since all that mana would go into your body. But who would do that?”

Numbtongue stared at the stone. Pisces cleared his throat.

“None of these hypotheticals are strictly safe. Numbtongue, if I may offer a solution? If money is not your objective and I have no reason to believe it is—why not offer the stone to Octavia? She could brew a potion out of it. At least, I know some [Alchemists] use mana stones. She might charge you coin or one of the other stones, but if she could reliably harness the stone’s power, then you would have a brew you could at least throw or ingest, again assuming you could discover the effects. But happily, [Alchemists] have many ways of discovering a stone’s effects.”

Numbtongue brightened at that idea. That did sound good. Falene looked disgusted, however.

“Octavia? You would bring [Alchemists] into this? Please spare me such notions. There are two decent [Mages] among us and four untrained fools—”

“Gee, thanks.”

Ceria rolled her eyes. Revi copied Dawil. Typhenous stroked his beard.

“As much as it pleases me to have your respect, Miss Falene—”

The half-Elf cut him short with a look.

“I was referring to myself and Moore.”

“Oh. How unfortunate.”

A painful silence fell as everyone glared at Falene or deliberately didn’t look at her. Ksmvr walked over to Yvlon and tugged on her arm gently. He didn’t bother lowering his voice.

“Miss Skystrall seems quite agitated. Yvlon, please explain her state of mind.”

“Well, you see, Ksmvr, some people are just sour—”

Jelaqua began, but Falene whirled. The Selphid raised her hands as Falene’s eyes flashed with more than just indignation. Her voice snapped across the inn.

“If I am upset, it’s in wasting over a month of time and effort to rush to Ylawes’ sister’s aid with little thanks and no reward. However, that would be enough, save for the fact that the other teams here have clearly benefited while we received nothing more than some gold.”

“We all participated in the lottery, Falene—”

Ceria broke off as Falene pointed a finger at her without looking.

“Do not lie to me, sister. I may not be able to see inside a bag of holding, but I can hardly miss Ksmvr and Pisces sitting in their rooms, rolling in piles of gold and gems.”

The inn fell silent. Numbtongue’s head turned with all the others to Pisces and Ksmvr. The [Necromancer] had turned bright red. Halrac closed his eyes, his sole contribution so far to the night. Yvlon banged her head on the table. Ksmvr opened his mandibles.

“Ah. We must have left the door ajar, Comrade Pisces.”

“Falene. You know we didn’t come here for treasure. If the other teams found…something, it was their discovery.”

Ylawes spoke up quietly. He didn’t quite look at any of the other adventurers, though. Dawil sighed. Falene stared at her team captain, lips white.

“If I wish for some small benefit, what of it? Numbtongue has no use for those mana stones. None at all. While I—”

Crack.

Falene blinked. She whirled and stopped. Numbtongue stared at her defiantly. The cracked blue mana stone emitted a burst of viridian light as he crunched it between his teeth. He closed his mouth, but the burst of magical light lit up his head from the inside.

“What did you do?”

The half-Elf [Battlemage] stared at Numbtongue in horror. But he was distracted. His mouth first felt slightly numb, and then he felt saliva gathering, as if the rock was actually tasty and hadn’t just cut open his mouth. But it wasn’t saliva or blood. Numbtongue’s cheeks bulged, and his eyes widened with alarm.

“Numbtongue?”

Erin stared at the [Bard] in horror. Numbtongue tried to say something or spit what was in his mouth out. A bit of viridian spurted out of his mouth. Falene recoiled.

The liquid never touched the ground. Halfway down, it turned to gas, a thick, clinging substance that hovered in the air. Falene gaped at it with everyone else. Mrsha took a step forwards, and Pisces pointed.

“No one touch it or inhale it! [Wind Blast]!”

The bit of magical smoke was funneled towards the door. Typhenous and Lyonette dove out of the way. Pisces cursed.

“Someone get the door!”

Half the adventurers moved, but Jelaqua leapt first. She didn’t need to breathe, so she hurled the door open. Pisces pointed, and the wind blew the smoke out. Then he turned to Numbtongue.

The Goblin’s cheeks were bulging. There was more liquid filling it! Pisces’ eyes grew round.

“Someone get—”

Numbtongue knew there wasn’t time. He was about to have the liquid whatever-it-was spurt out his nose or he’d swallow it. Neither option appealed to him, so he looked around and grabbed something. A jar. Numbtongue tore off the lid and spat.

The Goblin made a bleh sound as the blue-green liquid poured from his mouth into the jar. Part of it turned to gas on the way down, but most of it landed squarely in the container he was holding. He coughed it out, corked the lid, then stared at the jar.

“Do you see how dangerous it is? Who knows what effect that gas would have had on your lungs—or on us all? There is no telling the effect. As for your reckless—”

“Falene.”

Ylawes interrupted the half-Elf as she began to shout at Numbtongue. It wasn’t just the gas Numbtongue was still exhaling. It was the jar. The jar full of electrified magicore. And now, blue liquid. Numbtongue saw the two liquids mixing. And both were glowing brighter. The liquid was turning to gas inside the jar and expanding, and the cork was starting to tremble…

He had smashed the cork back in. But now the entire jar was shaking. Numbtongue exhaled more viridian in horror.

The adventurers took cover. Moore pulled Mrsha behind him. Falene, standing closest to Numbtongue, backed away in horror.

“Falene? What’s about to happen?”

Ylawes had his shield up. The half-Elf looked at him.

“I don’t—”

“Falene?”

The jar was shaking. Numbtongue felt the glass expanding. His arms shook as the electricity suddenly became twice as strong. He looked at Falene. She shouted.

“I don’t know! Toss it away, toss it—”



——



Two Drakes climbed the hill towards The Wandering Inn. One was male, the other female. Selys was leading Olesm, urging him to climb faster.

“Come on. I’m sure she has time for you. The adventurers are at her inn all the time. You can at least apologize, and if she clocks you, well, wouldn’t that make you feel better?”

“She doesn’t want to see me, Selys.”

“Yeah. Probably not. But how long are you going to avoid her?”

The [Strategist] shook his head. He stared up at the inn on top of the hill.

“I shouldn’t visit her now. The door wasn’t working. She’s cut Liscor off, Selys.”

“She’s not mad anymore, Olesm. I think. She was never angry, just sad. Look, let’s just go up there and if—”

The door opened. Olesm and Selys saw something blue blast out followed by a gust of wind. They blinked up at the inn and heard a shout. Then nothing.

“Uh…”

Someone appeared at the door. Numbtongue. He raced outside, a glass jar in hand. He threw it as far as he could—straight towards them. Both Drakes saw a tiny, glowing jar filled with yellow, blue and green, hurtling towards them.

They ducked.

The jar landed in the mud in front of them with a wet thump. Both Drakes breathed a sigh of relief. They stared at the jar. Then they noticed how it was shaking. They looked up at the inn in alarm. A half-Elf appeared in the doorway. Her eyes went round as she saw them.

“Run, you idiots!”

The two Drakes stared at the bottle. Then they turned and ran. Three seconds later, the jar exploded as the pent up liquid turned to gas and mixed with the magicore.

Selys heard something hiss and then a bang of sound behind her. She half-turned, and a glass shard flew past her face. She stopped and stared as Olesm tripped and tumbled in the mud.

The glass jar had burst, but not with the force of, say, an explosion. It was just that the blue-green gas laced with crackling volts of electricity was expanding too fast for the jar to contain it. Now, it grew into a huge cloud, twenty feet in diameter. It hovered in the air, like some kind of strange earth-bound viridian cloud. Selys could see miniature bolts of lightning earthing on the ground below the cloud.

Selys stared at the cloud. Olesm picked himself up from the mud. They looked at the cloud and then at the inn. Selys forced saliva into her dry mouth.

“I think that was an accident, Olesm. Honest. But…just in case, let’s come back tomorrow.”



——



Ceria was busy listening to Falene shout at Numbtongue when she felt a poke in the side. She yelped and immediately realized why all of her friends hated when she did that to them. She turned to glare—but softened it when she realized who was doing the poking.

“Captain Ceria, may I ask what tomorrow brings?”

Ksmvr stood politely at attention, armed with his short sword, dagger, and other gear. He even had his cloak on and the bow strapped to his back. Ceria had to smile; he was always ready. She turned and saw Pisces and Yvlon looking at her. The [Wounded Warrior] raised an eyebrow.

“I was wondering that myself, Captain. We’ve been sitting in the inn a long time. Time to get back to work?”

“We have a lot of money. But I suppose we have to wait to get it exchanged in a big city.”

Ceria mused to herself. She looked at Pisces, and the [Necromancer] shrugged.

“We do have an Ashfire Bee contract. But I would not be remiss if we took more work on. However, if our lot calls for sitting and eating to excess, I would not object.”

He said that, but the look in his eyes was a challenge. Ceria smiled.

“I suppose you’re right. We could go to Celum tomorrow. Take a few local requests on.”

The Horns brightened. Ksmvr stood straighter, his mandibles opening and rising with delight. He hurried over to the table where he had been sitting and grabbed his pack. Ceria laughed.

“Ksmvr, we’re not going yet!”

“No, but I must be prepared. I am already prepared, but I wish to make sure. At last. I have been sitting here in readiness for the last nine days. I am pleased that my rations are not yet completely spoiled.”

He was pawing through his things. Ceria blinked.

“Your rations? Wait. Did you buy rations? Ksmvr, that was a waste of money—”

He looked affronted and shook his head.

“Captain, that would be a waste of funds. Of course I did not buy any. I kept the rations from our last expedition.”

“…What last expedition? You mean, to the dungeon? Ksmvr, that was weeks ago. Unless you mean when you were going to rescue me—”

“No, I refer to the moments when we last ventured with Griffon Hunt.”

Yvlon frowned.

“How long ago was that? Ksmvr, let me see—”

She bent to reach for Ksmvr’s pack. The Antinium obligingly opened it to show her, and Yvlon’s face changed halfway down. Ceria had never seen someone turn green that fast. Yvlon staggered back, slapping the flap shut.

“Silver and steel!”

“Oh dead gods, what now? Has the Antinium kept a Creler as a pet?”

Revi threw up her hands. Ceria shook her head. She hesitated and looked at Ksmvr. The Antinium stared innocently at her.

“Ksmvr. Hand me the pack.”

He did so. Ceria hesitated. She could smell…something. But the sturdy leather concealed whatever was inside quite well. It had done so for a long time, apparently. She stared at the pack. Slowly, she opened it.

Pisces and Yvlon recoiled. Ksmvr had little in the way of olfactory senses, so he just peered at his rations.

“Ah, they are nicely decomposing. Perfect for renewal if they grow fungi. On the other hand, they can be an appropriate lure—”



——



“One more try. It was an accident. She doesn’t hate me. She doesn’t hate me—”

Olesm approached the inn. Selys was using him as a shield. He stared at the closed door, saw it open. He hesitated.

“Erin?”

A bag flew out the door. It clocked Olesm on the chest, spilling its contents all over him. Selys took one look at it and fled.

Inside the inn, Ksmvr stared at his rations and then at Olesm turning over to throw up as he scrambled to get them off him. He turned to Ceria. She was giving him a look that told him he had made some mistake. The Antinium wilted.

“Ah. I take it this was another mistake on my part? Comrade Pisces—”

Erin watched all of it happening. She looked at Numbtongue, who was ignoring Falene as he plucked at his guitar. At the other adventurers, debating over what the smoke had been and how useful a weapon it might be. At Apista, riding Mrsha’s head, at Lyonette, poring over some plans for the inn. And Erin did something that made it all that much better.

She laughed.



[Miner Level 6!]

[Skill – Grinder Teeth obtained!]



[Bard Level 29!]

[Song – Lightcaller Harmony obtained!]

[Song – Peaceful Melody obtained!]





6.11


Sweat rolled down the side of his face. It matted his fur, turned it darker. It dripped onto the stone floor. But of course, she couldn’t smell it. She could hear him, but he made no sound as his face lowered towards the ground.

Slowly. His arm compressed, and his body—seemingly far too large to be supported by a single arm—followed. For a second, Ceria thought he would collapse as his arm shook and his face nearly touched the ground. But his balance was perfect, and slowly, his body rose.

A pushup. One of many. Ceria had known you could do them one-handed, but she was no [Warrior]. She didn’t like the idea of exercising to begin with. But he was one of those maniacs who trained even out of battle. Yvlon and Ksmvr were like that, actually.

Another pushup. Ceria heard a faint grunt, but that was it. She watched as he adjusted his body, putting his entire weight on his arm. His one arm. The Minotaur’s horns nearly touched the ground of his cell this time as he lowered, then pushed himself up.

“How many do you do each day?”

It was the first thing she’d said in a while. He glanced up. She saw his muscles strain as he levered himself up. All…what, three hundred pounds of him? At least. Calruz was a giant of six foot seven, fairly tall even for Minotaurs, but he didn’t look stretched. His body was solid muscle from years of fighting and training. The idea that he could lift his weight with one arm was ridiculous.

But maybe it was because he only had one arm. Ceria stared at the missing gap on his right shoulder where the solid muscle and bone just—ended. Calruz had lost his arm a long time ago, to Skinner, and he’d had to learn to fight and survive with just the other one. You probably got a few Skills that made you stronger if that happened, right?

“So. You do this every day now? The guards tell me you’ve been working out nonstop.”

Calruz shrugged as he took a break to take a sip of water. He had some in his cell. The Drakes guarding him weren’t stupid; they’d left buckets of water in the cell, fresh water to keep Calruz from dehydrating and dying of thirst. Ceria wondered if they gave him more food. She wasn’t going to ask.

Which meant she was going to ask, but later. She shook her head.

“Pushups with one arm. What else?”

“Situps. Stretches. Odd—it’s hard to explain. I need to move muscles, but I can’t. So I try different poses. Stretching out.”

The Minotaur spoke quietly, but that still meant his voice was quite loud. Ceria nodded. She stared at Calruz. Absently, her good hand rubbed her right hand. She felt smooth, cool bone. And shuddered because it was her hand, but she couldn’t feel it.

“So. You started working out? Why? You want to look good in jail?”

The Minotaur looked up at her. His blue eyes blinked once at Ceria’s face, and then both of them looked away.

“I have to do something or go mad. This is what I know. It makes sense.”

“Yeah? You were having a blast doing the empty stare a while back.”

The Minotaur’s ears twitched. He was so calm now, but Ceria still found ways to needle him.

“I suppose I got tired of that. I couldn’t see the point the fifth time you visited me. I can try doing it again if it helps.”

Ceria snorted. The half-Elf stared past Calruz. She shook her head.

“Parchment and ink, too? What, is this a luxury cell?”

“Hardly. I asked for that. They gave it to me so I could draw maps of the dungeon. And I’m sure they wouldn’t have let me do even that unless you’d intervened.”

Another pause. Ceria bit her lip. Calruz didn’t look at her. He was doing something else now. Sitting against the wall, only without a chair. It looked…strenuous. He wasn’t facing towards her—he spoke while staring at the opposite wall of his cell. That way she didn’t have to meet his eyes. They preferred it that way.

“Yeah, well, you know the other teams aren’t going to trust your maps, right?”

A shrug. Calruz’s feet stayed planted on the ground, but she could see his legs tense with the effort of keeping his body against the wall.

“They don’t have to. I wouldn’t. Even the Raskghar could get surprised by traps. But the maps are a general layout. As best I know. If they help or reveal opportunities—even make them aware of the dangers of being cornered—it’s worth it.”

Ceria couldn’t argue with that. A map, even from an enemy, was better than going in blind. And she thought…she thought some of the teams might use the maps. Her eyes went to the maps. They were meticulously drawn; the Minotaur had labored over them, refusing to waste any parchment or drops of ink.

“So. What after the maps and your exercising?”

“Nothing. I keep exercising. When the maps are done, I’ll stop there.”

The Minotaur’s voice was flat. Ceria nodded. She hesitated, stared past Calruz at the bare wall. A magical barrier separated the two, sometimes barely visibly, other times shivering with light as dust motes struck it. But for that, they could have been mere feet apart.

“So. We’re leaving. I mean, all the northern teams. Halfseekers, Griffon Hunt, the Silver Swords…we’re all, uh, taking off.”

“With the Raskghar’s treasure. You’ll have to get it exchanged. I don’t know where. I’ve never had a haul like that. I was…dreaming of it. How I’d do it when I got out.”

That made Ceria pause. She stared at Calruz’s face. He looked ahead, a statue but for the sweat dripping off him. She hadn’t told him where they’d found the treasure. He’d just worked it out in between one of their meetings.

“Invrisil.”

She saw him pause and nod.

“Of course. It’s good the other teams are going with you. You won’t be shortchanged.”

Ceria shuffled, scuffing at the ground, although the prison was kept very clean.

“The Silver Swords aren’t part of it. I mean, they weren’t given the treasure. They, uh, found out.”

“I see. Will there be trouble?”

“If there is, there is. But Ylawes didn’t seem inclined to press it. I had a chat with Jelaqua and Halrac, and we decided we’d give something if they really pressed. But we’re mostly afraid of the other teams finding out. You know, Gemhammer, the Wings of Pallass, and so on?”

“They’re all staying?”

“They didn’t make a huge fortune in the dungeon. Some of them got a bit of the loot—so yeah. They’re staying. I expect we’ll hear more from them. After all, we have Erin’s door.”

“Indeed.”

Calruz didn’t say much. He’d already commented on the door. He was just sitting there, listening. Ceria knew he was paying attention, though. When the silence drew on too long, the Minotaur spoke.

“Thank you for coming.”

That was it. Out of nowhere. Ceria looked up, but he hadn’t even turned his head. She felt—there weren’t words to describe it. The half-Elf glanced about. The prison was mostly empty, although there were some troublemakers in the far cells near the entrance. Around them was empty, though. She reached for her belt.

“Time for a snack.”

At last, Calruz looked around. He stared at Ceria as she pulled out a Gnoll treat—a salted fish packed with a meaty paste. It lasted quite a while before going bad, and it actually tasted pretty good. The Minotaur eyed the snack and shook his head.

“The guards won’t let you give that to me. They make the cell’s field permeable to feed me, but only then. You can’t pass it through.”

The half-Elf stared at the Minotaur.

“Who said anything about you? This is for me.”

She bit into her meal. Calruz stared at her. She knew he probably got prison rations, which again, weren’t as bad as you might get in a prison in Terandria. But hardly tasty food. She saw his cheek twitch. Then he barked a short bit of laughter.

“You always were a pest. I can’t imagine how your new team puts up with you.”

“Go rot your face. I’m a great leader.”

The Minotaur kept chuckling, the first sound of amusement she’d heard from him.

“If Gerial could see you now—”

He paused, broke off. The amusement flooding his face grew bleak in a moment. Ceria felt the fish snack in her mouth grow less appetizing. She stopped chewing. Swallowed. Calruz stared ahead, breathing slowly.

“Say their names.”

“I remember.”

“Say them.”

A shuddering breath. The Minotaur spoke harshly.

“Gerial. Hunt. Terr. Marian. Coblat. Grimsore. Sostrom. Barr.”

Ceria nodded. After that, there was nothing to say. She put the rest of her snack in her belt pouch. Someone moaned across the prison. A late-night reveler waking up and regretting. Probably the drunk Relc had brought in with a huge lump on his head.

It was early morning. Just past dawn, really. Ceria knew that, and she knew she couldn’t stay. Not that she ever did.

“I’m going to leave. We have to take care of that Ashfire Bee nest.”

“Be safe.”

“Yeah, whatever. I’ll have the other Gold-rank teams with me. At least Falene, anyways. I’ll be back tomorrow. Look, if you need more parchment or some new quills, you could do some sketches of—”

“Don’t bother. I’m not going to be here much longer.”

Calruz looked up. He met Ceria’s eyes again.

“They’re going to execute me. I know Drake law. I deserve it, Springwalker.”

“I—know that. What, did you think I’d try to help you out with that?”

No reply. Calruz just met Ceria’s eyes. She turned away. The Minotaur spoke quietly, illuminated by the magical runes surrounding his cell.

“Better to die sane than down there, like a monster.”

She closed her eyes.

“Tell me it wasn’t your fault.”

No reply. She turned.

“Say it. You’re different now. Down there, it was a spell. The water. Or—”

“I can still hear the voices sometimes. I did it. And there was no reaction when they tested me. No magic. It was just me.”

Calruz shook his head. He stopped sitting against the wall. He stood up and faced Ceria.

“It was me.”

His hand pressed flat against the invisible wall in the air. Ceria looked at him. She turned. She couldn’t say anything. Why couldn’t he lie?

She was walking away when Calruz called out after her.

“Olesm.”

Ceria turned. The Minotaur was staring at her, a frown on his face. He spoke haltingly.

“There was…he was with us, wasn’t he? A part of our team. I forgot his name. What happened to him? I thought you said—when we were below. What of him?”

The half-Elf stared. Calruz was frowning. He still couldn’t remember everything of what had happened below. She forced herself to smile.

“Olesm? He made it. I told you. He’s not adventuring anymore. But he’s fine. Yeah. I think he’s…fine. I’m going to go. But I’ll be back tomorrow.”

“Farewell.”

That was all Calruz said. He watched as Ceria left, hurrying past the cells, pausing to speak with the guards. Different from his memory. But she’d come every day, if only for a few minutes. Sometimes for hours. To shout at him, annoy, poke, prod, tease. Reminisce.

“Thank you.”

The Minotaur whispered. He meant that. And he also wished she’d stop. He closed his eyes and sat against the wall. Waiting. For tomorrow or the end.



——



What had happened to Olesm? That was a good question. And the truth was, ‘nothing much’.

Or rather, Olesm had done well. He was no adventurer, putting his life on the line. He was a [Strategist] now. In a sense, he had made it; becoming a fully-fledged [Strategist] at his age made him a rising star, if anyone was doing constellations. And he had survived a potential war with the Humans. He had helped fight back the monsters and Raskghar plaguing Liscor, and he was due an extra gold piece and six silver per week thanks to his new class.

Yes, everything was on the up and up for Olesm. If you considered his fortunes, he was on a meteoric rise. But again, that assumed people were thinking in stellar terms. They weren’t. And Olesm wasn’t happy.

If you asked him why, he couldn’t point exactly to the reason. Maybe it was being hit with rotten travel rations yesterday. Or nearly being engulfed by some crazy green lightning cloud. Or it could be his guilt over the way the Goblin war had ended. But it might have just been that he hadn’t seen Erin Solstice again. And the fact that he was being ripped off.

“How much did you say it would be for your services, Miss Rissa?”

He stared at the female [Scribe] sitting across from him. The Drake woman had faint yellow and blue scales running down her body in a crisscrossing pattern. It made her stand out compared to Olesm’s uniform sky-blue scales. But you’d hardly notice because the [Scribe] was wearing long, concealing clothing that covered her arms, legs, and even her tail.

The effect was something like staring at a mobile pillow. Apparently, Miss Rissa grew cold easily, and since she sat in the same place, she’d outfitted herself and her work area to be as comfortable as possible. No stool for her; she had a high-backed chair filled with cushions, a wide writing desk, and several magical quills. And she was glaring at Olesm.

“Twelve silver per copy. That’s my final offer.”

“Twelve? I could get the same amount done for eight silver!”

The [Strategist] clutched at his head. He stared at Rissa.

“Last time it was only nine! And I paid that!”

“Well, I’ve heard that these magazine things are valuable. So I want to see some more coin myself. Twelve silver or you can go to my competitors. And you know I’m the best. You want steady reproductions of these maps and these…whatever they are?”

“Go strategies. They’re sketches of good chess and go games.”

“Go what? You mean that other new game? Either way, it looks like a pain to recreate. So. Twelve silver. That’s my final offer. Don’t make me make it thirteen. That’s an unlucky number, so we’ll skip to fourteen then.”

Olesm sighed. He opened his mouth to object, saw the [Scribe]’s eyes flash, and gave up.

“Twelve silver, then. Can I pay for twenty copies now? I have to get more money.”

“That will do.”

Miss Rissa watched greedily as Olesm slowly placed several gold coins on the table and hunted around for more. He wanted to object, but he wasn’t in the mood to risk alienating the best [Scribe] in the city. Rissa was temperamental, but she was quick.

“I can have at least ten done by the end of the day.”

Coins disappeared as Rissa flipped through Olesm’s latest creation. It was a hefty little package, and she wrinkled her nose at all the chess notations Olesm had written down. Then at the maps with scrawls of neat words accompanying them.

“What’s this? It’s not your usual bad handwriting. I thought I’d have to correct it.”

“No, Miss Rissa. I had a copy made—”

The [Scribe] gave Olesm a glare. He raised his hands.

“—just to see how it would look! And the handwriting is better, isn’t it?”

“This is Jeckl’s handwriting, that stupid Gnoll. You’re not giving him my work, are you? Because if you are—you can see his line work isn’t nearly as good as mine. And his inks…”

“Incomparable, truly. You’re my preferred [Scribe], Miss Rissa. I’ll just take that copy—you can get the best notes from my original. Thank you—”

The magazine was really just a sheaf of papers that Rissa thrust rudely at Olesm. He scrambled to put them in order, treating the soft paper very carefully. He’d used paper instead of parchment, and it had cost him a pretty penny (rather more than a copper penny, actually) to write the latest edition of his chess newsletter.

“You didn’t put one of these out last month. Or the month before.”

“I’ve been busy. I’m hoping to make them more regular. Every two weeks or three. If I can afford it.”

Olesm wished his tail weren’t sulkily curling up. To be fair, he had been busy. There had been no time for stuff like chess and his hobby of noting down Erin’s games and commenting on them when the fate of Liscor was at stake. But recently, he’d had ample time to write.

“You see, I have four of, ah, the best games I had recorded written down in notation with some of my commentary. I chose two games sent to me to include commentary from my special guest, and she—er, my guest also provided some sample games of Go, this new craze sweeping through Baleros. It’s in-depth stuff, and she explained a ton of theories, hence all the notes on various strategies. And after that, I have some commentary on Liscor’s siege and my perspective on the Raskghar attacks, not to mention the Face-Eater Moth incident—”

Rissa grew slowly more cross-eyed as she listened to Olesm talk. She shook her head and waved her quill, interrupting him.

“I don’t need a summary. I’ll have to read it myself. Leave me to my work! Gah. You’ve written double-sided? I suppose it saves parchment, but I’ll have to use my lightest inks…come back with the rest of my money and I’ll have the first professional copy ready.”

“Yes, Miss Rissa. Thank you—”

The door nearly hit Olesm on the way out. The [Strategist] glared as Miss Rissa’s long-handled stick adeptly flipped the sign on her tiny shop. From ‘Available’ to ‘Reserved’. He yawned and glared up at the sun. It was barely past dawn; he’d been lucky to get here in time to get her services for the morning.

“Twelve silver? It’s not like I make that much for each magazine. In fact, I don’t! What am I supposed to do, charge a gold piece for each? You’re lucky I need you to send this to Lord Astoragon. Then I’m getting these done cheap at Jeckl’s. At least he’s not a jerk.”

He glared at the shop and then stomped down the street. He was hoping to sell at least two hundred copies all told, which would make up for the price of the initial twenty done by Rissa. It had been a while since Olesm had run out an edition of his chess magazine. Heck, it wasn’t long since he’d started making them. But Erin had encouraged him and…well, that was all he’d needed.

“Last time I sold, what? Eighty? They went out to Celum, and I think some people took more north. Somehow, one of them reached the Titan himself. If you add that to my dedicated mailing list…if I charge ten silver and I can get the Runner’s Guild to buy them off me—can I do eleven? Twelve, to make up for Rissa? If I sell two hundred copies—but what if I make too many? Then I’m down…”

The [Strategist] muttered to himself as he tried to do some math on the go. Liscor’s streets were still filling up, but he had a lot of work to do. And it wasn’t even his work day yet. Today and yesterday had been Olesm’s days off, and he’d hoped to talk to Erin. Since he hadn’t and had been hit with a bag and nearly blown up, he’d spent last night working on the chess magazine, which was really just a [Strategist] magazine now. Gloomily, Olesm walked down the street.

“I should really have a name. Olesm’s Insights. No. That’s terrible. Chess Monthly? But it’s not chess anymore, is it? Er, the Liscorian Perspective? This is why I need Erin. She’d have a catchy name like—”

“Olesm!”

“Hm?”

The Drake turned. Someone was calling out to him. He saw a tall figure striding down the street around two elderly Drakes arguing with an old Drake that Olesm recognized. Tekshia, Guildmistress of the Adventurer’s Guild, glanced up at hearing Olesm’s name and then let the tall figure with bunny ears pass. Hawk strode towards Olesm with alarming speed. But that was Couriers for you. Tekshia kept arguing with the other two Drakes, sitting at an outdoor restaurant or maybe a pub. Olesm turned to Hawk.

“Hawk?”

The Courier of Liscor wore a light vest and nothing else on his upper body. He had long pants on, tailored to fit his rabbit hindquarters. But they were simple clothes, meant for strenuous motion, not fashion. He was clearly working today, but Olesm saw no package in his hands.

“Anything for me?”

“Not just yet. I haven’t run in the last few days. Did a long run to Pallass and got back a bit ago through that magic doorway a few days ago. I decided to take a holiday for a bit—I’m about to hit the Runner’s Guild for work. I expect there’s at least a few deliveries waiting on me.”

Olesm nodded. Hawk, as the sole Courier living in Liscor, could do deliveries south of Liscor where normal City Runners couldn’t. With the Blood Fields active in the spring—especially after the battle between the Drake armies and Tyrion Veltras’ forces—it was too dangerous for anyone to go south. Which meant that messages and deliveries usually waited on Hawk.

“I imagine they’ll be relieved you’re coming in. But, uh, if you’re going to do a trip south, mind waiting for a day? You see, I just got my latest chess magazine done. I don’t know if you’ve heard of it…”

The [Strategist] flushed a bit and trailed off. What was he doing, talking to Hawk about his magazine? But if the Courier went, it would be days before Olesm could send a delivery south.

To his surprise, Hawk’s ears perked up. The Rabbit Beastkin gave Olesm an appraising look. They’d rarely talked, but as Liscor’s [Strategist], Olesm had gotten to know Hawk and made a few requests of him in official capacities over the years.

“Your chess thing? I heard about that. Mind if I see?”

“Oh! Of course!”

Flustered, Olesm presented him with the sheaf of papers, Jeckl’s copy that had offended Rissa. The Courier flipped through the pages, blinking at the chess notation. Olesm winced; it definitely wasn’t eye-catching stuff unless you were a [Strategist]. But he had a growing audience—some people had sent him a lot of gold in donations! The Titan had read his work! That had to count for something.

“Hefty. And this is going out by the Runner’s Guild?”

“Yes. I’m sending them by way of City Runner to various [Strategists] I know. I can’t copy too many, but…I’m hoping to do two hundred. Uh, I’d only be able to pay you to do eight or so! You can just bring them to Pallass’ Runner’s Guild. It can go to the other recipients from there.”

Hawk frowned.

“Hm. They can’t copy illustrations at the Mage’s Guild. At least, not unless the [Mage] knows a sketching spell or has [Artist] classes. Sounds like it’s worth my while, then. How much for six?”

“O-oh. Well, if it’s only six, wait, at your rates—”

Olesm fumbled, confused. Hawk laughed. He shifted, his wide rabbit’s feet restless as ever.

“I meant six for me to buy. On top of the eight you want sent out. How much are you charging? Two gold pieces per edition? If it’s only two hundred, this is a limited run, right? That drives up the price.”

He reached for his money pouch. Olesm gaped at him.

“Two gold pieces? No, it’s ten silver!”

“Ten silver?”

This time, the Rabbit Beastkin recoiled. He stared at Olesm and shook his head.

“For this? And you’re selling only two hundred? Olesm, friend, you’re going to get ripped off that way. How much do you think these things are worth?”

“Uh—not two gold pieces.”

“Well, no. But people will pay a premium to get a copy first. Once it gets spread about and people make more copies, it’ll be worth less. But Olesm—remember that ring and the note I gave you from you know who?”

Hawk waggled his ears at Olesm. The Drake stared at them and jumped.

“You mean from—”

“—ah, no names. Courier’s code an’ all. But yeah. If he read your copy, you bet it’s popular. I heard some people were making copies in Baleros of your older editions. And this? This is new. So it’s worth me paying for—if you’re not about to spread them via [Message] spell or something.”

Hawk gave Olesm a stern look. He was lecturing, but only slightly, and Olesm listened. You could learn a lot from a successful Courier, and Hawk was rich.

“There are clients in other Walled Cities who made me an offer to get them one of your chess magazines if you come out with one. They’ll pay double for exclusive stuff like this. As long as it’s exclusive. Don’t let the Mage’s Guild get a hold of one of your copies unless you want to lose all your profits. And don’t trust the City Runners not to sell it to the first Mage’s Guild, or even the one in Liscor. Some might even get it copied by a [Scribe] too.”

“But isn’t it easy for anyone to copy? I mean, I’d expect that…”

Olesm trailed off weakly. Hawk nodded.

“So would I. So the trick is you make a few copies, say, forty? And you send them off and get paid a premium. Then, after four days, you make up a batch—your two hundred—and sell them to the Runner’s Guild and Mage’s Guild in Liscor and Pallass for cheap. That’s what I’d do.”

“Wow. But people will pay that much?”

Hawk gave Olesm a strange look.

“The Titan reads your magazine, Olesm.”

“But—I know that, but—it’s just a small enterprise! I just started a few months ago, I’ve put out like four editions!”

“And the Titan—damn, I said his name twice—reads your magazine. That means every [Strategist] and, er, chess lover around the world will want a copy of your magazine. How many do you think there are? Thousands. Tens of thousands. That’s your audience. You won’t reach most of them yourself; your magazine’s going to be copied. But you can have an exclusive list who’ll pay you in gold for early access. Don’t take that for granted. So, about the copies?”

Hawk patted Olesm on the shoulder in a friendly way. The [Strategist] stared at him, mouth agape.

“Well I, uh, well, I’m having more copies done. But—but I’ll have some tonight! Definitely! I can contact you—”

“I’ll stop by and delay my run until then. Let me know, alright? And remember, keep them away from [Mages] unless you want to ruin my profit margin—and yours!”

Hawk strode off. Olesm gaped at him. Hawk was delaying his run for some of the chess magazines? The Drake felt a surge of elation and fear. Then he had a thought. He turned and rushed back towards Rissa’s shop.

“I’m bus—”

The Drake [Scribe] snapped as the door flew open. She stared at Olesm and glared.

“What? Do you have more of my money?”

Olesm shook his head, panting. He pointed at the papers on her desk. She was already halfway through one copy. He’d seen Rissa work, and she was fast. All those Skills. He coughed and spoke hurriedly.

“Those twelve silver coins—they’re for exclusivity, right? You’re not making anyone else any copies. Right?”

He saw the [Scribe] freeze for a second. She glanced down at the papers and confirmed Olesm’s worst fears.

“Well, I—this is hardly enough money to be exclusive. And you didn’t ask. I have my work to do, but I suppose if anyone asked—”

“You can’t do that! Those are mine! You can’t copy them! What were you going to do, make more copies for the Runner’s Guild? The Mage’s Guild?”

He saw the older Drake woman bristle, but her tail was twitching rapidly.

“That’s highly—what an allegation! What I do with works provided to me is my business. If you wanted me to keep it exclusive, you should have made that clear. And if you want me to avoid making other copies, the price will be sixteen—”

“No!”

Olesm lunged for the desk. He tore his precious copy of his magazine away. Rissa made a startled noise.

“Give me that! You paid me—”

“And I want my money back! You’re no longer hired!”

“You can’t unhire me!”

The [Scribe] tried to get up, but her padded clothes made her awkward. And she was hardly fit; she swiped for the copy Olesm was stuffing into his belt pouch. He tore frantically at the half-finished copy on her desk, ripping it to shreds.

“They’re mine! Anyone who wants a copy has to pay me! Me! And if you think I’m paying you sixteen silver—”

“You’ll pay me more than that! How dare you! I have every right to make whatever copies I please—”

The door opened. Olesm stopped dancing about, waving his magazine copy over his head. Rissa stopped reaching for it and trying to stab Olesm with a quill. They turned towards the door. Ilvriss, Wall Lord of Salazsar, stared at the two of them and coughed.

“Swifttail.”

“Wall Lord!”

Olesm stared and then realized he was still fending Rissa off with one hand. He straightened, blushing fiercely.

“I was, uh, just—”

“I believe I heard. Miss Rissa Inkscale?”

“Yes? The best [Scribe] in Liscor at your service, Wall Lord Ilvriss. I was just having an incident with a disagreeable client. How may I serve you?”

Rissa hurried behind her desk, beaming at Ilvriss and giving Olesm a death-glare at the same time. Ilvriss eyed her and then turned to Olesm.

“I have some work I needed copied. Minor sketching. But if you’ve reserved Miss Inkscale’s services, Swifttail, far be it from me—”

“No. No, I was, uh, cancelling my order. And I’ll need my money back.”

Olesm glared at Rissa. The [Scribe] purpled, but she dared not object in front of Ilvriss. The gold coins and silver appeared back on the counter—minus one of the gold coins Olesm had paid her. He gave her a flinty look, but took it anyways. Ilvriss stared at the papers Olesm clutched to his chest.

“Am I to assume you’ve come out with another edition of your…magazine? I recall you telling me about that. General Shivertail made a passing remark on the subject.”

Olesm jumped. Zel Shivertail had read his magazine? He stammered.

“Wh—yes! I did come out with a new edition. But, uh, I’m trying to figure out a way to market it. And having it copied—”

“Exclusivity. I quite understand. Well, her work is hardly high-level [Scribe] quality, but if that’s the issue…”

Ilvriss tapped a claw on his chin as he thought. Olesm waited nervously. So did Rissa, who was quite cowed by the Wall Lord’s presence despite this being her shop. Ilvriss just had that effect. He was the picture of a Wall Lord, grand, commanding, and, Olesm had to admit, handsome. Olesm only got called cute by the Drake girls, but Ilvriss was like the [Lords] you heard about in stories. A real Wall Lord of a Walled City in the flesh. In Liscor. And, what was stranger, he knew Olesm’s name and took an interest in Olesm’s life.

The younger [Strategist] had no idea why, but Ilvriss had taken an interest in him and treated him almost like a protégé at times. Like now, in fact. Ilvriss came to a decision and nodded brusquely at Olesm.

“Allow me to lend you my personal assistant. We can discuss a moderate fee for the transaction later, but I think this would be a useful instructive moment. Assuming you don’t object to slightly lower-quality work?”

“What? No, not at all! I’d be honored!”

“Wall Lord! I—”

Rissa cut off as Ilvriss gave her a cool glance. Too cool, in fact. Cold. Olesm wished he could give someone that look on command. Ilvriss snapped his fingers gently.

“Miss Inkscale, I’d like to request your services for a series of prints. Monster sketches, mainly. The copies of which I have…here.”

He placed a sheaf of sketches, all on snow-white paper, on Rissa’s desk. The [Scribe] blinked, and Olesm caught a glimpse of several disturbing creatures as she paged through them. They looked like crude illustrations drawn by someone with no talent. Even so, they looked quite disturbing. And undead. Ilvriss tapped the papers.

“I know you’re no [Artist], but I’m told you have the [Illustrator’s Vision] Skill. Are you able to see the intention behind these?”

“I—yes, Wall Lord. Horrific beasts. Still sketches, though. I’m getting imaginative images rather than anything concrete. Whoever made these didn’t see them, only heard them, I’m afraid.”

“That’s what I expected. Nevertheless, if you’d be able to transcribe the internal images, I’d be most grateful. By tonight? I will pay for speed, hard work, and exclusivity.”

Rissa blushed a bit. She straightened and looked at Ilvriss.

“Of course, Wall Lord. It would be my honor. I can have the sketches done by then. In color?”

“I understand there’s very little. Black ink will suffice. My assistant will come by sundown to collect them. Good day. Swifttail? With me.”

Ilvriss gave Rissa a slight bow and a smile that had her blushing. Then he swept out of her shop. Olesm, in awe, watched him go. Then he saw Rissa glance at him.

“Well? What are you standing around here for?”

She snapped at him. He jumped and hurried out after Ilvriss. The Wall Lord was waiting for him. Olesm had to admire that. He’d gone in there, hadn’t haggled, just made his request and left. He wondered if money was even an obstacle for Ilvriss. Would Rissa even overcharge him? A Wall Lord?

“I hope I didn’t interfere too much, Swifttail.”

Ilvriss glanced at Olesm. The [Strategist] blushed again.

“Not at all, Wall Lord. It was my fault. I didn’t realize my magazines were so…”

Valuable? It felt ridiculous to say that to Ilvriss, who had gemstone rings on his claws and wore silk clothing day to day. But the Wall Lord only nodded as if it were reasonable.

“It’s hard to appraise the value of something new. Your magazine is a new commodity, but, I think, gaining in worth. You’re aware the Titan of Baleros praised it? That alone makes its earning potential substantially higher. From what I heard, you’re aware you should be making it exclusive?”

“Yes, yes—I just met with Hawk, actually. And he said…”

Olesm hurried after Ilvriss, talking quickly and summarizing his chat with the Courier. Ilvriss nodded. He was leading Olesm back down the street, towards the City Hall. It was slow going, even though both Drakes knew where they were going. That was because Ilvriss had to stop every few seconds to greet someone.

“Mister Rekil. A pleasure to meet you.”

“Good day, Miss. And who is this young one?”

“Guildmistress Tekshia. An honor.”

“Wall Lord.”

The old Drake was still sitting with her two companions. One of the old male Drakes looked up, munching on some kind of pretzel.

“Is that Wall Lord Ilvriss? Fine fellow! Good job on those Walled Cities, young Drake! I visited Salazsar once. Beautiful place. You still mining those gemstones?”

“As always, Mister…?”

“Rudss.”

The old Drake extended a claw, and Ilvriss shook it. The Wall Lord nodded.

“Gemstone mining, magical or not, has always been Salazsar’s greatest source of income. Our mines are actually expanding, in fact. We’re looking into claiming some new areas for forge work. Steel, armor, and weapons to go along with our magical productions.”

“Ah, but Pallass has the best steel, or so they say. That was how it always was. Pallass for steel and potions, Salazsar for gems. Oteslia was where you ate, and Zeres from where you sailed. You went to Fissival if you wanted to learn magic and not go to Wistram, and Manus to become an expert warrior. But now Salazsar wants gems and steel? That’s risky, that is. You tell the other Wall Lords it’s not easy upsetting history like that.”

Olesm winced. Rudss was an old Drake, one of the retired veterans from Liscor’s army who could live off his savings and pension. He was the kind who sat about and had an opinion on everything. But this was Ilvriss he was jawing off to. But Ilvriss didn’t seem to mind. The Wall Lord smiled a bit as he nodded.

“I’ll be sure to pass that on to my companions, Mister Rudss. And I hope that if you ever come to Salazsar, you find your stay pleasant. Guildmistress Tekshia? A pleasure.”

“Good day, Wall Lord.”

The elderly Drake inclined her head. Ilvriss walked past her. Olesm, following, could hear Rudss talking loudly to the other two.

“See? That was a proper Wall Lord. Always time to talk. Not like those stuck up [Senators] from Pallass. They had their Wall Lords and nobles—still do—but are they running things? Not likely! And look where it’s got Pallass. No, you want a proper city? You let them run things—”

“Is Salazsar looking into investing into arms manufacturing, sir?”

Olesm glanced up at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord smiled slightly.

“It’s been an ongoing topic for the last six years. And it’s a nice topic to bring up, Swifttail. But frankly? We might poach a few [Smiths], but we’re not looking to fight in that area. Panicking Pallass is always worthwhile, however. Because if we wanted to, we could entice some of their best [Smiths] away.”

“Ah. Of course.”

Olesm nodded. It was a known fact that of the six Walled Cities, Salazsar was richest by far. Not that any of the Walled Cities were poor, but Oteslia, famed for its agricultural and pastoral harvests, wasn’t nearly as affluent as Salazsar, who provided gemstones to much of the world. Even Pallass, the famed City of Invention, couldn’t compete with Salazsar’s sheer economic might.

“Frankly, it might be worth doing. They have two high-level [Smiths] in Pallass from last I recall. You wouldn’t happen to recall the names, would you, young Olesm?”

“Hm. Maughin the Dullahan of Baleros and, uh, Pelt the Dwarf of Terandria, sir.”

Olesm knew a lot of facts about politics, people of note, and monsters in general. A [Strategist] had to understand not only politics, but remember high-level individuals who could literally turn the tide of battle. And both [Smiths] certainly qualified. Ilvriss snapped his claws.

“Of course. Thank you. Yes, both [Smiths] are quite good. Neither one is world-famous, but I’ve heard Maughin may hit Level 40 within the decade. As for Pelt…I recall reading a report claiming his Skills indicate he’s at least Level 40 already. Why the Dwarves would have let him go…”

“Probably his habits, sir. He’s a notorious drunk, and his work ethic is quite poor.”

“All the more reason why Salazsar could easily poach him. A Level 40 [Blacksmith], even a poor one, is a rare commodity, Olesm. Baleros has a few, and so does Izril, but Chandrar and Terandria both lay claim to more. Dwarven steel still claims a sizable portion of even Pallass’ markets, and Chandrar always has some rare pieces, although their [Smiths] are hardly as organized or well-funded. Desert tribes somehow produce unparalleled masterpieces, but they can’t compare with the sheer volume of Pallass’ forges.”

“I’m aware of the disparity, Ilvriss, sir. Are you suggesting we need higher-quality weapons?”

“Mm. No. A Level 10 [Soldier] doesn’t do particularly better with a masterwork spear in his hands. Cheap steel like Pallass provides is more advantageous, and we can equip our soldiers better than the north. But they have their [Knights] who use magical gear that tip the scales. It’s my opinion we need more elites, and not just Oldblood Drakes. Hence my interest in [Smiths].”

“Really? But, Wall Lord, traditionally our elite units have taken a backseat to high-quality standing armies.”

That was the notable difference between Human doctrine and Drake when it came to war. Humans favored elite attack forces and disposable infantry. Their [Knights] were a terror on the battlefield, as were their [Mages] and Gold-rank adventurers, but Drakes had won battles based on their superior general forces and [Generals]. The claim was that a Drake [Soldier] was worth one and a half Human [Soldiers] in a massed battle. But Ilvriss was shaking his head.

“I’ve been…thinking on the subject. And our standing armies need more elite forces, Olesm. To hunt monsters, to battle incredible foes—steel and courage only go so far.”

That was true, but it was still an unusual stance for Ilvriss to take. Olesm hesitated.

“Does that have anything to do with the pictures you gave Miss Rissa, sir?”

He saw Ilvriss give him a sharp glance. The Wall Lord frowned.

“Those? Those were merely sketches, Olesm. Reproductions of…well, monsters I’d heard about. Hardly my concern. I was more speaking to the loss at the Blood Fields.”

“Of course, sir.”

Olesm nodded. But he thought, privately, that Ilvriss had hesitated for a second. Still, the Wall Lord was all cool grace as he swept into the City Hall, and Olesm wondered if he’d imagined it. It was hard to read Ilvriss.

The City Hall of Liscor had traditionally been a place to settle complaints, for the Council to meet, and for officials like Olesm to work. It had been a quiet place, for all it occupied a spot in the center of the city. The Council of Liscor, a body of the heads of the Guilds and so on, were happy that way. But of late, it had seen a lot of use. And with Ilvriss stranded in Liscor, he’d practically taken over the place.

A pair of Drakes, Ilvriss’ personal guards, stood at the front doors. The instant the Wall Lord entered, a female Drake hurried down the steps. She was attractive and had a pair of spectacles on. Olesm had noted that everyone in Ilvriss’ employ tended to some degree of perfection. Whether in beauty or, in the case of his personal guards in his retinue, skill at arms.

“Wall Lord. Orders?”

The female Drake paused before Ilvriss, glancing at Olesm. Ilvriss nodded.

“Welsca, make a note to pick up the sketches at Miss Rissa Inkscale’s at sundown. Until then, I have need of your services. Young Olesm has his latest chess magazine finished. He requires copies. How many, Olesm?”

The [Strategist] cringed as the female Drake, Welsca Crimsonscale, one of Ilvriss’ personal adjutants, glanced at him. She didn’t look exactly hostile, but he had a feeling that she outranked him as the personal aide of Ilvriss. And here he was giving her work.

“Er, I was hoping for sixty copies, Wall Lord. But I’d hate to—”

“Can you have them done, Welsca? The issue is having them copied.”

Welsca pursed her lips.

“I can, Wall Lord. But I’d need to hire at least one [Scribe]. It would be a simple matter if they’re trustworthy. Have you a name I could use, Strategist Olesm?”

“Er, yes, I do. There’s a Gnoll by the name of Jeckl who’s very reasonable—”

“I will see to it, then. May I see the papers?”

The Drake paged through the reports, eyes flicking over the pages busily. Ilvriss glanced at them with some interest.

“Ah. Interesting chess games. Am I right in thinking they come from Miss Solstice, Olesm?”

The [Strategist] coughed hurriedly. He didn’t want anyone to know that Erin was his mysterious chess master, but Ilvriss was bound to know.

“That’s right, sir.”

“I don’t find the game as fascinating as others, but I can admire skill. I had some notion of Miss Solstice’s skill in the area but…how would you rate her, Welsca? Welsca?”

The Drake jumped. Olesm thought the red scales on her cheeks turned slightly darker for a second, but like Ilvriss, her expression was almost instantly neutral.

“Apologies, Wall Lord. These are magnificent games. Truly…and there’s even commentary on this new ‘Go’ game. Which was first released in your last issue, isn’t that so, Strategist Olesm?”

She looked at Olesm. He jumped.

“That’s right! How did you—er, you read the magazines?”

“I believe Welsca is quite good at chess. As for Go—will they sell well, Welsca?”

“Oh yes, Wall Lord. Quite well. Although—the last section is controversial.”

She handed Ilvriss the section with maps. Olesm cringed. That was the last part of his magazine. He’d included chess games, the games of Go and strategies Erin had outlined for him, but the part about Liscor’s siege…he watched as Ilvriss read quickly. The Wall Lord’s brows raised.

“Ah. I see. That is notable. Olesm, you understand this will provoke a reaction?”

Olesm took a deep breath. He’d written about Goblins. His opinions, as well as his insights. He’d made it—well, he’d been honest to how he felt. If anyone had a problem, it was his magazine, not his stance as Liscor’s [Strategist].

“I do, Wall Lord. But I feel it’s only right. I mean…”

He floundered, but Ilvriss was nodding.

“I can’t say I disagree. A bold choice. Welsca, copy it. Young Swifttail may account for his own words, especially as a [Strategist].”

“By your leave, Wall Lord. Although I will correct some of the spelling errors. And the maneuver employed during the Raskghar battle was a triple flanking maneuver, but the formal term is a triple envelopment.”

Olesm blushed as Welsca pointed out the mistakes. She nodded at him and left with the copy Jeckl had made. Ilvriss had Olesm’s original. He chuckled at the look on Olesm’s face.

“Don’t worry, Swifttail. Welsca is a fan, though she’d hardly admit it. And she is an active [Strategist].”

“She is?”

Olesm twisted to stare at Welsca’s back. Ilvriss nodded calmly.

“A former field officer in Eartiv’s army. I recruited her, oh, twelve years back. She’s currently a [Veteran Adjutant], a straight promotion over her [Strategist] class, but perhaps not one with as much room for advancement. Nevertheless, she’s my best staff member in terms of coordination. You’re aware of the [Adjutant] class? Up the stairs to my office.”

Olesm followed Ilvriss up the staircase.

“Vaguely, sir. [Adjutants] are a mix of, er, [Secretary] and [Soldier], aren’t they?”

The real phrase Olesm had been thinking of was ‘Combat Secretaries’, although that was more of an insult. Ilvriss nodded.

“Correct. They’re able to fight, but they receive a number of utility Skills that allow them to perform a [Secretary]’s role. Welsca will be able to get your copies made, and she’s knowledgeable enough to aid in battle. You’re aware the rest of my retinue are former officers as well?”

“Yes, sir. A Wall Lord’s escort is generally considered to be the equivalent of an officer base. A dangerous addition to any army.”

Olesm spoke up, reciting his lesson from memory. He saw Ilvriss smile.

“Well, so long as the Wall Lord is capable. Now, about your magazines…ah. Captain Shieldscale. A moment.”

They were striding along the third floor to the office that Ilvriss now occupied when they met a Drake in armor. Olesm stopped, blinking at the Drake striding towards them. Like him, she had scales, but hers were bright blue, almost too bright. She had the posture of a career soldier, but unlike Embria, she had wings and an acrid odor about her.

Oldblood. Like how Zevara always smelled a bit smoky, Olesm was sure that this Drake was an Oldblood capable of both flight and breathing acid. The rarest of the varieties of Oldblood Drake and highly prized in any city. She stopped in front of Ilvriss and gave him a crisp salute. She was wearing fresh armor, and unlike Olesm and the Wall Lord, she was armed with a sword and shield and in full battle gear despite being in the City Hall.

“Wall Lord. I was coming to see you as per your instructions. Is there a change in scheduling?”

“Slightly, Captain Shieldscale. I’m assisting young Olesm with an issue. We will be only a few minutes.”

“Yes, sir! I’ll await your call.”

She stepped to one side, opening the door to Ilvriss’ office smartly. Ilvriss nodded at her and strode in. Olesm did likewise after giving the Captain a longer look. He’d met her once before; she’d turned up after the battle for Liscor. One of the reinforcements sent through from Pallass, maybe.

She was intense. And her scales were very bright. Olesm wondered if she was one of those people who dyed her scales. Maybe she had an unfortunate coloration?

“Uh, is Captain Shieldscale a new addition to your retinue, Wall Lord?”

Ilvriss was rummaging around in his desk. He glanced up, and Olesm definitely saw him hesitate.

“Her? Ah, yes. Osth—Osthmissa Shieldscale arrived with a detachment from Pallass. Although our relationship is too formal for personal names. Ahem. She’ll be serving as added security. She’s a quite adept [Captain] of the Oldblood. But I digress. We’re here to ensure your magazines earn their full worth. That means your initial sending will go via Hawk, who is trustworthy, to some of your clientele in the south. But I assume some will go north, too?”

“That’s right. But I don’t know how I can prevent the City Runners from just copying them at Celum and selling them…”

Olesm sighed. Ilvriss smiled slightly.

“Courier Hawk had the right idea. An initial, limited run keeps the price high until you mass-produce copies. Hiring trustworthy Runners and making sure that they understand this is a confidential delivery helps. But to ensure no copies are leaked…”

He was pulling objects out of the desk and setting them on the counter. Olesm saw him pull a piece of wax out that had glittering flakes embedded in it. To his eyes, it looked magical, not to mention expensive. Ilvriss muttered to himself.

“Magical sealing wax and…where’s the flashfire dust? Captain Shieldscale?”

He called out and the door opened slightly as a female voice replied.

“Top drawer, sir. The sealed box. You have two seconds.”

“Thank you.”

Ilvriss pulled out a box. Then he looked at Olesm.

“As Welsca will be making more copies, I’ll brief you on how to make these letters and lend you the wax and dust to work at your leisure. Hawk need not take these letters as he is a trustworthy Courier, but for the ones going north…observe.”

He took the loose papers of Olesm’s magazine, inserted them into a large envelope. Then he pointed to the box.

“Two seconds.”

Olesm saw him flip up the lid, scoop up a handful of a strange, red dust, slap the lid shut, and pour it into the envelope. Instantly, Ilvriss sealed the lid. Olesm blinked. There was a trace of powder on Ilvriss’ claws, and it turned to smoke after a moment.

“Flashfire dust?”

“Incinerates in the open after two seconds. Anyone opening the envelope will have it ignite. Be sure to press the envelope flat or the air will ignite the dust. And then the wax…”

There was no licking of the top of the envelope to stick it to the paper like there would be in Erin’s world. Instead, Ilvriss used the wax he’d taken, using a candle to drip it onto the envelope. Ilvriss let the wax harden and then pressed one of his rings into the wax. It left a distinct imprint, and the red wax sprinkled with gold shone as Ilvriss held the envelope out. The Wall Lord studied it with satisfaction, then blinked at his ring and laughed.

“I put my seal on it! Force of habit, Swifttail. But you see? The magical seal can’t be removed without destroying it or the envelope. And if they do get the letter open…”

“The dust incinerates it. That’s a lot of expense, though, Sir Ilvriss! And what happens if it gets to my, uh, readers? How will they open it? And the cost—I couldn’t possibly pay for—”

Olesm broke off as Ilvriss held up a claw. The Wall Lord smiled somewhat affectionately.

“Nonsense, Swifttail. These are simple tricks of the trade. As a [Strategist], I expect Liscor would want you to understand as much of your job as possible. Possibly they’d send you with their army for field training, but I find [Strategists] who only understand war lack civic training to an alarming degree. You’re familiar with the various countermeasures against spying?”

“Yes, of course. Codes, incomplete messages, and direct delivery versus [Messages]. But this—”

“Consider it a gift. For one of your magazines? Welsca will enjoy reading it. And this should do for the first batch of exclusive sendings. In a few days’ time, it will be moot, but until then, this will prevent tampering until it reaches the intended owners. Naturally, you’ll need to send them a [Message] spell informing them of the countermeasures—the local Runner’s Guild can extract the documents safely.”

Olesm gulped, but what could he do but nod in the face of Ilvriss’ generosity? Private [Messages] where you pay for privacy, exclusive, trustworthy City Runners…Olesm gulped as he added up the costs. But if Hawk was paying two gold per magazine issue, and if he received the same…would his readers pay the cost? Olesm had no idea.

“Here. Your first letter and the wax and box.”

Ilvriss handed all three to Olesm. The [Strategist] stammered his thanks, but Ilvriss waved it away.

“It’s nothing. A trifle.”

Olesm was sure that was true for Ilvriss. But he thanked him again. Ilvriss smiled, and Olesm thought he seemed genuinely pleased to have helped Olesm. That gave the [Strategist] the courage to ask another question.

“Er, Wall Lord, you’ve been nothing but an asset to Liscor. But I can’t help but notice you’ve stayed here for quite some time. When you and General Shivertail—”

He broke off, the memory of the famed Zel Shivertail still fresh. Ilvriss nodded.

“Go on.”

“—When you and General Shivertail got here, you told the Council you’d only stay for a while. And you’ve told me you wish to return to your Walled City. Are your plans changed?”

Ilvriss’ smile twisted. He sat down in his chair.

“Hardly. But I need to get through Pallass, Olesm. I’m sure you’re aware of the difficulties I face any other way now. If I had left earlier during the winter…but now the Blood Fields are active. It was well I stayed, but politics are holding me in Liscor, and that is a problem I wish to resolve. Quicker than ever.”

“The Assembly still won’t grant you passage through Pallass?”

Olesm was surprised, but only a bit. Drake politics got petty, and Pallass was quite capable of refusing Ilvriss entry. Still, it was hard to imagine they could do this forever, especially since Ilvriss had the credit for helping Liscor repel both the monsters and the Humans. The Wall Lord grimaced.

“They’re exercising their one right in this situation—their right to allow entry into their city. But that’s about to end. Naturally, I won’t tolerate this state of affairs, Olesm. But Pallass does hold the advantage since I am alone. A rare change of events for them, I’m sure. But not to last much longer.”

That sounded ominous. Olesm gulped.

“Uh, as Liscor’s [Strategist], may I ask what you intend to do, Wall Lord? It’s hardly advantageous for Liscor to be caught between Walled Cities.”

Ilvriss blinked. Then he laughed.

“Don’t worry, Swifttail. I’m hardly about to start a huge incident. Underhanded pettiness requires a reply in kind. Thus, I’m sending Erin Solstice after them, of course. Or haven’t you heard that the Assembly of Crafts is already having to explain a tax on Liscor’s magic doorway?”

Olesm hadn’t. But he gulped anyways. Pallass might be a Walled City, but he imagined Erin was a match for it. Ilvriss grinned predatorily.

“Mail your magazine out, Swifttail. And send Captain Shieldscale to me, would you? I do hope your magazine is well received. How many readers did you say you had?”

“I’m not sure, Wall Lord. I’ll be sending the, uh, first sixty to my readers on my list. As for the others…”

Olesm had gotten a lot of mail from people before all this business with the dungeon. He hoped to get more. Apparently a lot of people read his magazine, but his reading list—the people he’d be mailing to, sometimes free of charge—was very short.

There were about forty-five names on the list. Friends, [Strategists] and [Tacticians] he knew or who had asked to be put on there—it seemed like the rest had acquired copies of his magazine through other channels. Olesm felt another bit of spite and jealousy rise up in him, thinking of his work being stolen! Stolen without him earning a copper coin!

But the names of two of his readers calmed Olesm down as he left Ilvriss’ office. One of them was a legend. Niers Astoragon, who would be getting a [Message] spell and a physical copy by Courier and damn however much it cost. And one more name. But Olesm was too cowardly to give it to her in person, so he sent it the only other way he could.



——



Ilvriss, Wall Lord of Salazsar, sat in his office as he watched Olesm leave. He frowned, listening to Olesm speak to Captain Shieldscale outside, and then hurry off. He leaned back in his chair.

“Hm. Interesting.”

He didn’t have long to think on what Olesm had asked him, though. The door opened a beat later.

“Wall Lord? The [Strategist] told me—”

“Come in, Captain Shieldscale.”

Ilvriss called out loudly. He saw the door open fully. Captain Shieldscale, her scales bright blue, her breastplate gleaming, strode into the room and closed the door behind her. Ilvriss nodded. He spoke casually as he twisted a ring on his finger.

“Ah, Captain. You have the report on Liscor’s—”

The ring on Ilvriss’ ring finger twisted all the way around, and the turquoise gem flashed. The light wasn’t a single glare though; it seemed to expand in an instant, filling the room until there was a bubble nearly touching the walls. Just for a moment, and then it was gone. Ilvriss sat up, leaving off the last of whatever sentence he’d been about to make up. And ‘Captain Shieldscale’, or rather, Osthia Blackwing, relaxed slightly.

“We’re clear?”

“My ring is active. Unless someone’s capable of piercing a bound Tier 5 [Denial] spell, we should be invisible.”

Osthia Blackwing scratched at her bright blue, artificially colored scales.

“He could do it. I’m sure he could. Reiss—the Goblin Lord was sure that his master could cast at least Tier 7 spells. Probably Tier 8.”

The thought of that made Ilvriss’ insides clench, but he spoke briskly.

“I’m aware. But [Denial of Observation] is a specific spell that can fight off even a higher-level scrying spell. I’m not aware of any spell short of a truly epic magic that can pierce it, and if Az’kerash has such spells, he is already aware of us. Since we’re both still alive, I assume it’s working. Have a seat.”

There was a beat of hesitation, and then Osthia pulled up the chair and sat. Her back was rigid, and her posture military-straight. Ilvriss eyed her. She was nothing like the desperate Drake he’d found running towards Liscor in the hours after the Goblin Lord’s army had been routed. Gone were the shackles on her wings, and her atrophied muscles had bounced right back. Now she looked like what she was—a former officer of Pallass. An Oldblood [Captain] in Pallass’ army, in fact, one of two sent to destroy the Goblin Lord months ago. Her entire army had fallen, and her uncle, Thrissiam Blackwing, one of Pallass’ star [Generals], had been slain there. Osthia had never had a chance to avenge him, but she had survived her captivity.

She was different now, of course. They’d dyed her scales blue instead of black and given her a fake name. She was…damn, what had he told Olesm her name was? Osthmissa Shieldscale. Ilvriss hoped the cover was unnecessary. With luck, Az’kerash would assume she was dead or not remember her. But even so, he double-checked that his ring was still active before he spoke.

“Well? What’s the result of your investigation?”

“I made the inquiries like you asked, Wall Lord. I can trace the origin of Regrika Blackpaw and all the cities she’s visited—and the deaths of notable personages around that time—to every city in the last six years. If I correlate the two, half of the cities she’s visited had a person of note pass away or disappear under dubious circumstances.”

“Ancestors damn it.”

Ilvriss closed his eyes and struck the armrest of his chair. He stared past Osthia, gritting his teeth. Regrika Blackpaw, the fake Named Adventurer. A strange, mysterious murderer that Erin Solstice had revealed to be behind the murder of Brunkr—and then, subsequently, Ulrien of Griffon Hunt. There was a bounty on her head, but Ilvriss was sure no one would ever claim it.

Because, as it turned out, Regrika Blackpaw was no Gnoll after all. She was an undead servant. One of the minions of Az’kerash, the Necromancer. A being thought dead, but who Ilvriss was now completely certain was alive. The same monster behind the Goblin Lord. And behind the death of General Zel Shivertail.

No one knew that he was alive. Everyone had assumed that Az’kerash, the bane of Terandria, a being of incredible power, had been slain at Liscor by Zel Shivertail himself during the Second Antinium War. It wasn’t a stretch of an assumption to make either; thousands had seen Zel rip the Necromancer in half. But somehow he’d survived. And he’d been plotting and weakening the Drake cities since then.

“Ill enough news, I suppose. But we knew she’d been killing high-level Drakes already. Shivertail and I had been making inquiries. But what about your second line of investigation?”

Osthia nodded. She pulled something out and placed it on the table.

“This is the second investigation I conducted. A list of every city where an individual known as ‘Perril Chandler’ visited, ostensibly as a [Merchant].”

Ilvriss ran his claw down the list.

“And the second list?”

Osthia’s lips tightened.

“Every Drake person of interest who was present in two or more cities at the time of Perril Chandler’s visit.”

The list of names was eight long. Ilvriss wished there were far fewer. His claws tightened on the paper.

“I recognize six of these names. Two of those—two of those I know.”

He could sense Osthia watching him carefully. She was an unknown quantity to him, and, he suspected, he to her. They were allies of convenience, but he was a Wall Lord of Salazsar and she a [Captain] of Pallass. Technically, they’d be enemies under some circumstances, but she was dead to her city. And dead to the world if Az’kerash knew she yet lived. He thought he’d killed her, but his apprentice, the Goblin Lord named Reiss, had conspired for her to live. For some reason.

“They could just be coincidental, Wall Lord. But I did check and double-check. All Drake cities keep lists of persons of interest as well as [Merchants] of note who enter, so…”

“Yes, I’m aware. I don’t imagine Az’kerash knows of that protocol, or if he does, he was too arrogant in assuming no one would remember his name. Which no one did—these names. Each one will have to be investigated. Quietly.”

“I’m at your disposal.”

Osthia sat up straighter. She was practically vibrating in her chair. Ilvriss glanced at her. He could feel it too. A boiling fury. An urge to grab his sword, put on his armor, and—

But no. No, it wasn’t time. Osthia had a reason to hate Az’kerash, but Ilvriss had just as much reason, if not more. Periss, his second-in-command, was dead. He’d thought Ryoka Griffin had caused it somehow. But the truth was that she’d stumbled onto Az’kerash’s lair. The Necromancer thought he’d disposed of all the evidence. But through Ryoka, through Osthia, Ilvriss knew. So he was biding his time. He had to be patient. And so did she.

“No. Neither you nor I will be making the inquiries personally. And you will stay out of the public eye as much as possible. We return to Salazsar first. And then—then we gather allies. I need to be secure in my estates, though. And that means our objective is to get past damned Pallass and the asinine Assembly of Crafts first.”

He saw Osthia’s eyes flash as he insulted her city to her face. She didn’t say as much to him, though.

“Pallass is a proud Walled City. If you made a humble request—”

“Pallass is as petty as any Drake city on the continent. I won’t beg. For one thing, it’s out of character. For another? The Assembly isn’t a body of Drakes I trust. They might let me into the city, but I have political rivals who wouldn’t hesitate to send [Assassins] if they saw an opportunity. No, I want to be past Pallass and heading to Salazsar without anyone knowing my exact timetable.”

Osthia straightened.

“Then what’s my role? You’ve taken me in, and I’m grateful. But everyone needs to know that Az’kerash—”

“No. A select number of individuals need to know. And that number is up to my discretion.”

The two Drakes glared at each other across the desk. Osthia spoke slowly, her voice taut.

“I did not survive my captivity to make this a political issue—”

“This is not politics. This is about victory. If the Assembly of Crafts in Pallass were informed, I guarantee you that within the hour, word would reach Az’kerash. They are not subtle. And it is my belief that Az’kerash would welcome a war.”

“His minions were damaged by Zel Shivertail. One was destroyed! Reiss said—”

“The Goblin Lord may have hated his master, but he is not in possession of all the facts. If Az’kerash were to attack—”

Ilvriss was leaning over his desk, and Osthia was on her feet. The door opened, and a Drake hurried in.

“Wall Lord, I’ve made two copies, but I saw fit to let the Gnoll [Scribe] do the rest of the work. It was easy enough to get him to swear to secrecy—”

Welsca paused as she saw Ilvriss and Osthia facing off. She stared sharply at Osthia, who immediately stepped back. Ilvriss sat back down and coughed.

“Welsca. You’re early.”

“Yes, Wall Lord. My scribing Skills aren’t good enough to do illustrations, merely quick writing. I saw fit to delegate. My apologies, I didn’t hear anything—”

Her eyes went to Ilvriss’ glowing ring. The Wall Lord nodded.

“I was just discussing our plan of action with Captain Blackwing. However, your presence reminds me. Summon Veel, please, Welsca. I wish to make this a discussion rather than…now, please.”

“Yes, Wall Lord.”

Osthia sat back down, and Ilvriss collected his thoughts and calmed himself. Within the minute, Welsca was back, and Veel, a former [Sword Captain] and Ilvriss’ best warrior in his small retinue, was in the room. Veel was a Level 26 [Sword Captain], a strong fighter with an enchanted blade, and Welsca was a former [Strategist], as Ilvriss had told Olesm.

Olesm was correct in that a few good adjutants could be the same as an officer core. An asset to any army or in times of peace, very capable help. What the Wall Lord hadn’t said was that a retinue of a Wall Lord was still a retinue. Ilvriss was higher level than all of his subordinates, and capable though they might be in all their fields, none of them was a Zel Shivertail. Or even a Periss. Zel could have torn Veel apart with one claw, and he was a better [General] than Ilvriss, even with Welsca’s aid. He had been…extraordinary.

Now he was dead. And one of the few people who could have stopped Az’kerash on equal footing was gone. In his absence, Ilvriss felt vulnerable. As he explained to Osthia, his caution was not misplaced.

“In this room stands all but one person who knows Az’kerash is alive. Ryoka Griffin is aware, but to my knowledge, no other beings in the world know of Az’kerash’s return. Perhaps there are others and we may have allies, but until we know for certain they aren’t the Necromancer’s pawns, we operate alone.”

“And why aren’t we telling more people? At least Watch Captain Zevara?”

Osthia faced Ilvriss directly, refusing to use his rank. Welsca and Veel shot her dark looks, but Osthia wasn’t Ilvriss’ subordinate, for all she pretended to be. Ilvriss had to convince her, and the Wall Lord did.

“Because I cannot be sure who is trustworthy—completely trustworthy. And second, because each person who knows is a liability that may lead to Az’kerash becoming aware that his cover is gone. If that happens, we go to war. And that would be a deadly mistake. Isn’t that so, Welsca?”

The former [Strategist] nodded.

“I’m not the right person to make the complete call on this, Wall Lord, Captain Blackwing. But I’ve run the numbers, and Az’kerash was capable of fielding at least four hundred thousand undead in a single army. He was routed by the Goblin King, but he still assailed Liscor with a smaller force and nearly won. Against Liscor’s walls with their entire army defending it and Zel Shivertail and three other [Generals] attacking him at the same time.”

“But he’s only one [Necromancer]. If the Walled Cities marched on him—”

“—the Antinium would hit us. It’s not even a question of if, Blackwing. It’s when.”

Ilvriss leaned on his desk. He stared at Osthia, who’d grown pale.

“You might not have fought in the Second Antinium War, but I did. And believe me; the Grand Queen will attack if she thinks there’s a weakness. And the Necromancer is that weakness. Between his armies and the Antinium, we could be fighting a losing battle. Our only hope is twofold: that Az’kerash doesn’t think he’s strong enough to triumph yet, and that the Antinium are equally biding their time. But we must be ready for both to keep assailing us, or in the worst case, join forces.”

“So what’s your plan? Hide the fact that Az’kerash exists?”

“From everyone but a select few. And then we find out how many loyal Drakes he’s gotten to. How wide-spread his allies might be. Regrika Blackpaw could not have existed without some corrupt officials covering her. As for killing Az’kerash, we need to figure out a way to do that too. Captain Veel?”

The Drake gulped and saluted. He was older than Osthia by a decade and a half, a seasoned warrior, but he still looked pale.

“I agree with Welsca’s determination, Wall Lord. I…I did some thinking into how I’d take out the Necromancer. Or just his minions based on what Captain Blackwing told me.”

“And?”

“And…and had I all the resources at my disposal, sir, I’d need a group of Level 30 plus adventurers, [Captains], and so on to take on the Chosen. Preferably around a hundred.”

“A hundred individuals over Level 30, Captain Veel?”

The Drake nodded.

“Yes, sir. Or a Zel Shivertail. I tried running the numbers in my head. If I had elites, over Level 20—but a thousand of them might get mowed down by that group. As for the Necromancer? The only way I could think of taking him out would be a massive army. Exhaust his spells, fight off the undead he animates—”

“But he’d keep reanimating from our dead.”

Veel nodded towards Welsca.

“Yes, he would. But unless you can call me three teams of Named Adventurers—and even then, I’d don’t know if they’d risk their lives against the Necromancer, let alone him and all his pets—I can’t think of a way to beat him short of vast numbers. He has to be over Level 60.”

“Reiss thought he was over Level 70 at least. Maybe over Level 80.”

Osthia muttered. The room fell silent. Ilvriss felt his scales tingling.

Over Level 80. He could think of no one, no one in the world who was higher level than that. The Blighted King? The King of Destruction? The Archmages of Wistram? Niers Astoragon? All would be Level 60 to Level 70, but not higher than that.

Individuals capable of shaking the world reached Level 60. The kind of [Kings] who could build an empire the size of a continent, like Flos, the King of Destruction, were around that level. But beyond that?

Niers Astoragon, the Titan of Baleros, had become the head of one of the four Great Companies of Baleros, but Ilvriss would bet he wasn’t over Level 70. Past that level was where stories of monsters and legends were born. The kind of old heroes, like Redcal, the Drake hero of legend who’d slain the Minotaur King over a thousand years back.

Or Archmage Zelkyr, the last true [Archmage] of Wistram who’d created an army of Golems that still protected Wistram to this day. They were powerful enough to be called armies on their own. And they could brush away armies of low-level soldiers like trash, even by the hundreds of thousands.

“Zel Shivertail defeated the Necromancer once.”

Osthia spoke quietly. Ilvriss nodded.

“He did. He beat him with the aid of Antinium, in Liscor’s darkest hour. Not a hundred feet from the walls of this city. In close-quarters combat. That was his strength. But the Necromancer is a…[Necromancer]. And that means his servants are his strength. Recall that he had lost a good part of his army to the Goblin King. And he still brought giants of bone to assail Liscor. He could conjure ghosts and wraiths and undead far beyond mere Crypt Lords and Draug. His servants are an indication of his strength.”

Welsca nodded, adjusting her spectacles.

“Indeed. [Necromancers]’ summoned creatures are generally weaker than the Necromancer in question by a substantive margin. The fact that his creation, this…Venitra, could pose as a Named Adventurer speaks to his strength. And troublingly, I’m not sure if she’s stronger than the average Named Adventurer or weaker.”

“And he can make more. Which means every day we’re not attacking him gives him more time!”

Osthia slapped the table. Ilvriss nodded, waving Veel back as the Drake glowered.

“True. But if we did corner Az’kerash, even if we could fight the Antinium, Osthia, what’s to stop him from escaping or faking his death if we corner him again? Remember. Zel Shivertail beat Az’kerash once. And the Necromancer survived and came back. And he killed General Shivertail the second time.”

Silence. The other three Drakes stood with cold sweat on their scales. You couldn’t forget that fact. The Goblin Lord hadn’t killed Zel Shivertail. The Necromancer had. He’d killed Zel and Periss. Two crimes Ilvriss intended him to answer for.

“Realistically, Osthia Blackwing, this is my determination. As it stands, there is no force the Drakes can muster capable of killing the Necromancer. We might beat him in a war, but there is no team, no force who can take out his Chosen, who can beat his undead creations in a battle. There are individuals. Named Adventurers, teams, elites from Walled Cities—but if it came to war, the Necromancer could pick them off, leave us with no one capable of killing him. That’s what he’s been doing all this time.”

Ilvriss walked around from behind his desk. Osthia, Welsca, and Veel followed him with their eyes. All were below Level 30. Ilvriss was below Level 40. He’d always thought he could match Zel with his artifacts. That the other [General]’s strength was nothing to a strong army, proper economic might. Now, Ilvriss wondered if Zel were laughing at him from beyond the grave.

No, he’d never laugh. Zel, give me strength. Periss—

Ilvriss turned.

“So we need allies. I have a list of Drakes I want to approach. I have a list of Drakes I want to investigate. And I have a third list of artifacts, of old Drake legends. The Heartflame Breastplate appeared after Zel’s death for a reason. It may not have protected him, but with other artifacts, with Drake heroes, we might be able to form a force capable of humbling the Necromancer. And…it pains me to say it, but it won’t just be Drakes.”

The others looked at Ilvriss sharply. The Wall Lord took a breath. He hated to say this out loud, but he had no choice.

“If it comes to it, we’ll recruit from other species. There are…individuals of note. Opportunities. But to start, to be in a position to build a force like that, I need to get back to my city. Captain Blackwing, you and I are on the same side. But make no mistake; I am still a Wall Lord, and this is my war to wage. If you object, say so now.”

He waited. She hesitated, but said nothing. Ilvriss nodded.

“Good. In that case, here’s what I intend to do. First, I intend to make sure Liscor stays in a position of power. If we had to fight the damn Humans as well as the Necromancer and Antinium? No, Liscor must stand, and it has many individuals of note. Potential, in short.”

“Is that why you’ve been aiding Strategist Olesm, Wall Lord?”

“Partially. He has potential, Welsca. As does Watch Captain Zevara. A straightforward, trustworthy Drake. I’m not sure about Wing Commander Embria, but the Gecko of Liscor actually fought that thing called Venitra for a few seconds. But we can’t recruit them. Liscor needs them, and it needs to grow from the dungeon. But I can lend my aid, which I intend to do.”

“But you’re still stuck here, aren’t you, Wall Lord?”

Osthia stared at Ilvriss. The Drake grinned, but it was mirthlessly.

“Yes, I am. At least, that’s what I’ve been telling Swifttail and the world. I’m still railing against Pallass, aren’t I? But I have at least one asset I intend to make use of. Welsca? Do you have a copy of Olesm’s magazine?”

“Right here, sir. Would you like to discuss it? It’s quite fascinating—”

Ilvriss sighed. Welsca did love chess.

“No, thank you. This isn’t for me. It’s for someone else.”

“Need you an escort, sir?”

Veel straightened. Perhaps he was ashamed of his estimation of Az’kerash’s strength, but Ilvriss waved a claw.

“No. She doesn’t appreciate rank.”

“Ah, you’re visiting her.”

The other two Drakes sighed. Osthia looked confused. Ilvriss made a face that was partly over exaggerated, but he nodded.

“Captain Blackwing, I’ll be back. I need to visit the first of what might be unusual allies. At the very least, she’s thwarted Az’kerash again. Which means that Erin Solstice has the support of Salazsar.”

“The [Innkeeper]? But what can she do?”

Ilvriss turned, his claw on the door. He twisted the ring, and the spell went out. He smiled, for once with genuine humor.

“I don’t know. But I imagine that’s why she’s an asset. No one knows what she’ll do next.”



——



Magazines and chess. Ilvriss didn’t actually like chess. But it occurred to him, finally, to wonder just how good Erin Solstice was. He stared at the young woman as she peered at the pages, oohing at the neat chess notation. She was so engrossed that she completely ignored the Wall Lord. Until he coughed.

“Oh, sorry Ilvriss. This is some good stuff! Okay, a lot of it’s my stuff, but these two chess games are good! And Olesm has a chess puzzle! I can’t wait to solve it. Don’t know about the strategy, but he said…nice things about the Goblins, I guess. Why didn’t he deliver it himself?”

There were a lot of things the Wall Lord could say as he sat at the table near the magic door in Erin’s inn. He could have remarked on the lowered number of guests in her inn or her repeated use of his name rather than his title. But he declined to do so and replied politely instead.

“I believe young Swifttail is ashamed to visit you. Perhaps owing to his involvement in the defense of Liscor’s walls.”

The happy look on Erin’s face faded.

“He should be.”

“For doing what was asked of him?”

Ilvriss lifted a brow. Erin stared at him.

“Yes.”

The Wall Lord considered this and nodded slightly.

“Well, he requested me to bring this to you. Which I did. Perhaps he will work up the courage to visit himself, but for now, I have a small piece of business with you.”

“What have I done this time?”

Erin sighed, putting her hands on her hips. Ilvriss reached for something in his pocket as he glanced towards the far end of the room.

Erin’s [Grand Theatre] Skill was still in effect, and at the far end was the stage. And there were [Actors] on the stage, a motley Human crew with a few Drakes and Gnolls gathered around. Ilvriss nodded at them.

“I take it you are resuming your plays?”

“Yup. They’re holding auditions for a new crew. Why? Wanna join?”

Erin gave Ilvriss a smile that was either teasing or mocking. Or both. The Wall Lord snorted softly.

“Hardly. I see the quality of their acting has dropped markedly. Where’s the young Drake who was there? She at least had a presence.”

“They left. Went north, I think. Better jobs. I’m…well, it’s good for them.”

The slight hurt on Erin’s face was another thing Ilvriss didn’t comment on. He sighed.

“A pity. I might have hired them, if only as a novelty act myself.”

“What, to go to Salazsar? Aren’t you still banned from Pallass?”

“Yes, and I continue to protest the fact. But if I can direct your attention downwards?”

Ilvriss held something up. Erin’s eyes went round.

“Hey, that’s—”

“One of mine. I assure you. They aren’t hard to come by, especially not for a Wall Lord of Salazsar. Nor is that door of yours hard to understand.”

“But wait. It’s no good unless you have another—”

“Hawk arranged it for me. Or did you think I would have simply hired him for one delivery? Rest assured, it is in a safe place. It only requires your discretion—and permission—for me to activate.”

Erin stared at Ilvriss open-mouthed. Then her eyes narrowed. He wondered if she’d be outraged or annoyed. Instead, to his surprise, she just grinned.

“You’re sneaky. Like a snake.”

“An unquestionable insult. But I thank you nonetheless. May I assume I have your approval?”

“Sure…but do you need a distraction or something? Because I can do a great distraction.”

“Spare me. Just a moment will suffice. If you’ll allow me? Take the stone off, give me five minutes, and open the door again. I assume you can count?”

Erin nodded. Then she narrowed her eyes and stuck her tongue out at him. Smiling to himself, Ilvriss stood up. Casually, he walked over to the door, placed the black mana stone he’d shown Erin on it, opened the door, and slipped through.

There was no need for a distraction. After all, people used Erin’s door all the time. And so what if the mana stone he had used was black? Who kept track of the colors? The door was open a fraction of a second for Ilvriss to slip through, then he closed it and knew he had five minutes before Erin would put the stone on it again and open the door.

Plenty of time. Ilvriss didn’t know where he was now. It was dark, but he’d made arrangements, so when he coughed, there was a spark of light.

“Apologies, Wall Lord.”

The Drake who lit the lantern was neither tall nor short. Neither fat nor thin. He wasn’t anything in particular, and it was hard to even remember his face. That was the quality of a good [Infiltrator]. Or [Spy]. Ilvriss wasn’t sure which this Drake was, but he knew the name.

“Lawes of Pallass, I take it?”

“Stationed here at your orders, Wall Lord.”

The Drake nodded to Ilvriss. The Wall Lord nodded back politely. He consulted the notes in his head.

“You’re one of our operatives. Six years?”

“Coming on seven come fall. Yes, sir.”

Ilvriss glanced around the room. It was small, made of stone and mortar. A hut? He continued making idle chatter, trying to gauge Lawes. The Drake was trustworthy, or Ilvriss would have walked into a trap, but you could never be too sure of a spy, even an employed one.

“How long have you been waiting?”

The Drake grimaced.

“Four days. I rented this hut in the village on the pretext of needing to get away from the city on some real gambling debts. The Courier dropped off the stone, and it took me hours to locate it; a goat had picked up the bag. I assumed that was the reason for the delay.”

“Ah, my apologies. I wasn’t able to access my side of the door until now due to complications with the owner. Can you keep guarding the door?”

“As long as need be, Wall Lord. But I was told to expect allies from your side?”

Lawes looked sharply at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord nodded. He’d said that, but he’d come through first. If there had been a trap, Ilvriss would have wanted to spring it himself. He had enough artifacts to make any would-be ambushers regret it.

“I will send through two of my men shortly. They’ll occupy the hut. Unless people in the village would ask questions?”

“Not if they stay in this room.”

Ilvriss nodded. It would be four of his people, and Veel would lead them.

“In that case, my next task is simple. I need ten horses, ready to go. Fast and with stamina—I intend to head straight for Salazsar when I leave.”

The Drake [Spy] inhaled sharply.

“It won’t be easy to procure them.”

“You have time. Just do it covertly.”

“Hm. I could make it seem like I’m trying to get some horses and sell them to make up for my debts…I’ll have them in a few days.”

Ilvriss nodded. He was counting down in his head and knew he only had a few seconds left.

“In that case, I thank you for your service. My men will see you tonight. And I will commend your service upon my return to Salazsar with some suitable reward.”

The door opened. Lawes bowed his head.

“You’re too kind, Wall Lord.”

“Hardly.”

Ilvriss stepped back through. Erin blinked at him and then plucked the black mana stone from the door as the Wall Lord shut it. She handed it to him, and Ilvriss tucked it into his pocket.

“So, did you have fun? And where did you go?”

“Somewhere convenient. It will take me to Salazsar, assuming my contact isn’t untrustworthy. I’m still unsure, but Captain Veel will ensure that any traps will be dealt with. Should they occur.”

The young woman shook her head as she eyed her shut door. After a second, it opened and Numbtongue strolled out, pickaxe in hand. He stopped, staring at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord eyed him and turned back to Erin.

“I only hope you’ll be discreet about this.”

“What? Oh, sure, sure. Hey, Numbtongue, how’s it going?”

The Goblin didn’t reply. He was staring at Ilvriss. The Wall Lord glanced at him. He turned back to Erin, and the Hobgoblin walked around. Erin stepped back as Numbtongue moved between her and Ilvriss. The Drake stared at him.

“I see you.”

Numbtongue didn’t budge. Ilvriss sighed.

“Numbtongue.”

At last, the Hobgoblin moved.

“Hi. Got more magic sludge.”

At last, Numbtongue looked at Erin. He lifted a jar, the sight of which made Ilvriss turn his head and frown, and then wandered off to a table. The Drake blinked at the jar.

“Was that…raw magicore?”

“Yup. Numbtongue mined the stuff. Or…I dunno, scooped it up? Can you mine a liquid?”

“Yes. But how did he—never mind. I’m afraid my stay in Liscor is now limited, Miss Solstice.”

“Well, you’ll be back, won’t you?”

The Wall Lord blinked. He looked at Erin, who was smiling up at him.

“My home is Salazsar, Miss Solstice. My sojourn in Liscor, although surprisingly pleasant, was just that.”

“True. But I have a magic door, and you can always visit. Or I’ll make it, uh, go farther. Or you could always ride back to Pallass. Don’t be a stranger, right?”

For a second, the Wall Lord just blinked at Erin. Then, surprisingly, he laughed.

“Ah, Erin Solstice. Perhaps I will return one day. But until then, I’m afraid I will be going. For quite some time. And I’m not sure whether I should thank you. Your company has been exceedingly unpleasant and, somehow, beneficial.”

“Thanks?”

She blinked up at him. And she was so young. Ilvriss bent down to her.

“I will leave in three days. With no warning to Liscor’s Council or anyone else. I expect Pallass won’t even notice I’m gone until I appear back in Salazsar. But perhaps, yes, perhaps I will return. The door will stay in place, after all.”

“And I’ll check every day. Or maybe I’ll just wait until you send me a [Message]. But if you need to come back, just let me know.”

Erin looked up at him. Totally ignorant of what it meant to promise a Wall Lord of Salazsar to help him spite Pallass behind their backs. But that was why Ilvriss almost liked her. She didn’t know who he was, even if she had guessed some of it. And he had guessed a lot about her. So, to her surprise and his, he held out a claw.

“Miss Solstice, we won’t see each other until that night. So I bid you farewell.”

Slowly, Erin reached out and took his clawed hand. She shook it gently, and he was surprised to see her tearing up a bit.

“You’re going too? The other adventurers are leaving and…well, good luck. You have to come back, alright?”

“I will.”

And somehow, he meant it. Ilvriss looked around the inn and thought of Liscor. A proper backwater city, notable only for being a border city to the north. Without a hundredth of the grandeur of Salazsar. Constantly imperiled by monsters. If he had thought of it a year ago, he would have sneered at the notion there was much of worth here. Now?

Now, he slowly reached for his left claw. Ilvriss absently tugged on one of his rings as he spoke.

“I imagine Pallass will cause a fuss. But they won’t figure out what was done, obvious though it may be, for quite some time. They have frail imaginations. I expect there will be some fuss, but I am sure you are quite capable of generating more than your fair share to offset the balance.”

“Oh, definitely. Don’t worry. I know you have a job.”

Erin smiled wetly at Ilvriss. He smiled back. And he wished he had more time. But—

“When you come to Salazsar, speak my name and you will be welcomed. Until then, Erin Solstice, consider this a token of repayment. For the city, for hospitality. A sign, if anyone should ask. If you need it. Hide it. Show it when you need it. And never let it be said a Wall Lord isn’t generous.”

He handed her something. Erin blinked down at it. For a second, her eyes narrowed, then they widened.

“But—hey! Ilvriss! Hold on—”

But he was already walking through the door again. For once he left her speechless.

Three days later, he was gone. On the fourth day, Erin Solstice heard a Wall Lord had appeared in his home city. Watch Captain Venim and the Assembly of Pallass were really not happy about that. She had to slam the door on his foot twice and shout a lot. But they had no idea how Ilvriss had gotten through, and she could tell them it wasn’t an [Invisibility] spell without lying.

Frail imaginations indeed. After they’d left and the chaos had calmed down, and in the days since, Erin stared down at what Ilvriss had given her. It was a band of metal. Not half as well-adorned as his other rings or signets of his office. It had no gem. It wasn’t even shiny.

It was a ring of copper. Copper. But someone had written on it in gold. And the engraving said one word:

Salazsar.

And when Erin looked at it, she knew it was more valuable than any of the magical rings with gems. She stared at it on her index finger where it fit perfectly. Then she shook her head.

“Stupid Ilvriss. I’m not marrying you. You can have it back when we see each other again.”

And she swore, someday, that she’d meet him again.





6.12 K


“The Quarass is dead. May she live again.”

That was all they said. In the streets, in their homes, staring at armored [Soldiers] with hatred or dying with blades in hand. That was what was spoken. The people of Germina whispered the words. Then they shouted them. They gathered in the streets.

The Quarass was dead.

They were words which shook the world. At least, the world according to Germina. In fact, most of the other nations had already moved past that news. It was weeks-old, and just one revelation among many.

At the time, yes, the news had rocked the foundations of every nation that had heard it. It had become the topic of every conversation, every bit of gossip and worry, and [Generals], [Strategists], and [Rulers] had all gathered to discuss the events surrounding the Quarass’ death. Because she had been killed by none other than Flos Reimarch.

The legendary King of Destruction himself. Slumbering no more. The man who had conquered an entire continent as a boy, then begun a war of conquest that had threatened to engulf the world. He had been stopped—but only by a hair’s breadth by every nation uniting to force his armies back. And, some speculated, had he not gone into his slumber after the death of two of his Seven, his famous generals and leaders, his empire might still be the mightiest in the world.

That was Flos. And he had reawakened. Months ago, the rumors had begun spreading. The quiet, tiny kingdom of Reim, reduced to a single city and a few villages, had been suddenly revitalized. Somehow, the impoverished people living there were transforming themselves into an army. And then had come the news that had given more than one ruler a sleepless night.

The King of Destruction had awoken. He was forming an army. He was back.

Of course, it had always been a possibility. Flos Reimarch had never died and never suffered a grievous injury to force him to retreat. He’d simply…stopped. And his kingdom had collapsed into pieces and been claimed by other nations as his armies disbanded or turned traitor, his loyalists fleeing without the benefits of his Skills or leadership. The King of Destruction had returned to his throne in the city where he had been born and sat no longer on his throne.

It was a mark of how much he had been feared that even decades after his kingdom had vanished that no one dared to attack Reim. Yes, the King of Destruction was slumbering, his people impoverished, his treasuries empty. And yes, even his legendary Seven—now five—were scattered, and only his Steward, Orthenon, known as the King of Destruction’s left hand, still remained.

But though his enemies were legion, no one dared send an army against him to finish Flos Reimarch off for good. Just in case that were to arouse his wrath and reawaken that slumbering monster.

But now he was back. Someone, something had woken him up. The other nations closest to Reim had done the only thing they could think of: they had declared war and sent a coalition army to take Flos’ head before he could regain his former strength.

They had failed.

It was a story the people of Germina knew. After all, they had sent their sons and daughters off to war. Their country of Germina bordered Reim. And their ruler, the Quarass, had personally desired Flos’ death. So Germina and the Kingdom of Hellios had spearheaded the attack. And Germina had not stopped there; they had sent child-assassins to slay Flos, and a powerful [Geomancer] with an ambush force from Hellios to draw Flos out of his capital and slay him.

Again, they had failed. And though the coalition army had first routed a force led by Gazi and Orthenon, they had discovered it was a trap; upon nearing the capital of Reim, the King of Destruction had unveiled a working of Drevish, one of his Seven, now deceased. The legendary [Architect]’s will had laid the army to waste with lightning hurled from the towers of Reim. And Flos himself had led his army on the counterattack and taken the remains of the coalition army prisoner.

He had ransomed many of the [Soldiers] and surviving officers back to their countries, in accordance with the traditions of war in Chandrar. And also in the same tradition, those that their nations had not bought back became slaves, which he sold to one of the Traders of Roshal, a nation that controlled the slave trade across Chandrar and the rest of the world.

All of this was backdrop, however. The true tragedy had come in the months afterward. Flos Reimarch had not been content with the defeat of the coalition army. Or rather, his wrath had spared the other nations who had taken part and focused solely on two countries. Germina and Hellios. Leading his army from Reim, he had come north. On the battlefield, he had smashed Hellios’ army and the might of Germina in the course of a day. His armies had split, one to occupy a surrendering Hellios.

But he had given no quarter to Germina. The King of Destruction led his armies personally into the capital of Ger, the city built around an oasis from which Germina had been founded. And in its streets, he had cut down everyone in his way and ascended the steps to the Palace of the Quarass. There, he had beheaded her.

The Quarass is dead. Let her rise again.

They could all remember the moment Flos had strode down the palace steps, bloody blade in hand. They had not seen her head, but they knew. You could feel the Quarass’ death, feel her Skills protecting her nation pass with her. They had raged against the King of Destruction, then, but his army had filled the city. So they had been forced to choose between subjugation and death.

It might have been surprising how few chose death to an outsider, especially given how beloved the Quarass had been. But that was because outsiders didn’t understand the truth. Now, nearly a month after the Quarass’ passing, as Flos’ armies still occupied much of Ger and the country, keeping order, hope had blossomed on the streets. They whispered it and gathered in secret.

The Quarass lives.



——



This was Germina. Hot, arid land, almost desert, defined the nation. Germina, like Reim, was not a land of riches. Chandrar, the continent, was not rich. It was arid, which meant heat by day and freezing cold by night in many regions. Some parts were prosperous, but no part of Chandrar was as rich as the jungles of Baleros, overflowing with life, or Terandria or Izril, whose greenery was but a dream for many living in barren parts of Chandrar.

Perhaps only Rhir was harsher, and even then, only because of the Demons. But Chandrarian citizens often claimed parts of Chandrar were worse even than the blighted lands of the Demon King. Toss an army of demons in the great desert and see how many crawled out.

Yes, the desert. Chandrar had several, but the largest was the desert which occupied the center of the continent, effectively cutting off civilization for thousands of miles so that nations had emerged around it, but never flourished inside the unrelenting hell of sands.

As luck would have it, the Kingdom of Germina bordered that desert, situated in the northeastern quadrant of Chandrar. It was one of the kingdoms closest to the desert that bordered it on the west; aside from the damned Kheltians, of course. Reim and Germina were both hard lands to settle and grow anything but the tough Yellats in.

But Ger had been blessed. For it was located on an oasis, a vast reservoir of water that had sustained Germina for thousands of years. The first Quarass had claimed the land, and the Kingdom of Germina had begun millennia ago. It was a Shield Kingdom, one of four remaining, ancient, sometimes waning in power, but never erased. Not even the King of Destruction could do that.

Germina was, of course, landlocked. To the northeast, Hellios was a sometimes friendly neighbor, ruled by the current Queen Calliope. There was no [King]—Treland of Hellios had died decades past at Flos’ hands during his first wars of expansion. Calliope was the only ruler of her kingdom, followed by her son, Prince Siyal. Both had been spared death. For now.

The other nations around Germina were likewise small, having reclaimed themselves out of Flos’ empire once he slumbered. They were powers, but not, say, equivalent to the confederation of String People nations to the south or the richer coastal nations on the south of Chandrar.

To the north, nations like the Republic of Belchan, which was a parliamentary government who elected a [Prime Minister], and the realm of Jecrass, who had a [King], ruled. Minor powers, but powers nonetheless. West of Germina was the land of Khelt, of course, and no one threatened them. They had stayed out of the war with Flos.

None of these nations could by themselves threaten Flos, even with his small army. The King of Destruction was too high-level, and his vassals—Orthenon, the King’s Steward, Gazi the Omniscient, Mars the Illusionist, and Takhatres, Lord of the Skies—were all titans in their own way. The only threat to Reim was if multiple nations united to crush it—a process that Germina’s folk hoped was already underway—or if the Empire of Sands took action.

Of all the nations on Chandrar, the Empire of Sands was the newest. In the decades after Flos had entered his slumber, a new [Emperor] had risen and claimed the western civilizations across the great desert. He had expanded rapidly, and his empire was now a major power, if a distant one. But he had set himself as an enemy of Flos, announcing it by sending him the head of one of his Seven. Drevish, the [Architect].

But both nations were too far apart to yet do battle. The desert separated them, and while Takhatres had led his tribe to raid the Empire of Sands, no retaliatory force had made the dangerous journey to strike at Reim. The King of Destruction had likewise ground to a stop as spring began; his armies continued to occupy Hellios and Germina, but all three nations were still mortal. They needed to eat, plant crops, and bury the dead.

But now a change had come over the citizens of Ger. The initial shock of the King of Destruction’s army sweeping through the capital in a bloody evening had faded. Their fear and despair had turned to fury. And that seed of hope was growing. So, you could feel it as you walked across the mud-brick streets of Ger, past houses built of the same material.

If you peeked down a street not patrolled by [Soldiers] wearing Reim’s colors, you could see people gathering. Their clothes were light in color and plain; mostly white or grey, the product of wool or other light fabrics for the day. The women dressed in long, flowing dresses sometimes banded by color, but often as plain as the long-sleeved clothing worn by men. Both genders kept little of their skin exposed to the sands that could sometimes blow in, scalding and stinging exposed flesh. But Germina was hardly colorless; the people just left it to the buildings.

Pigments. Dyes made of crushed insect shells or plants, bright and colorful, adorned each house. You couldn’t walk past one building without some motif. Often, they complemented each other; it was rare to see a house that clashed. Sometimes, the houses were drawn with fanciful motifs, like a bird, or a stylized mythical creature. Other times, they were just plain colors, artfully brought together by the owners. But the paints were beautiful and the owners of each building tended to them more than their clothing. After all, they would pass in time, but a home could last for centuries if it was tended to.

Color on the buildings, white clothing. Rebellion on the streets. More than one young man was hiding a knife or a club unsuccessfully in their clothes. Young women did it too of course, but they were more artful about it. If you passed by some girls with braided hair, you’d notice the shiv woven into the hair, ready to be plucked out.

But there hadn’t been much violence this morning. The city was waiting. There had been a few incidents, some too-obvious malcontents arrested, an idiot attacking a band of [Soldiers] killed, but the city was quiet.

“Too quiet.”

Venith Crusland, one of Flos’ vassals and a [Lord] and veteran of countless wars, grunted to his wife as they surveyed the city from the steps of the palace of the Quarass, known as the Seat of Ger. Probably because it did look a bit like a seat, being the tallest building built on a slope on top of the city. Or maybe because it was located directly on top of the reservoir of water that fed the city via the wells. Or…Venith didn’t care.

He was surveying the streets of the city from this commanding spot, using a monocle enchanted with a farseeing spell. He hated the thing because it was a stupid device you had to hold with your cheek against your eye and because it stank to him of pointlessness. Why couldn’t the [Enchanter] who’d made it create something more practical? With two lenses? He held it up to his eye as he followed a patrol of [Soldiers] across the city, noting how people got out of the way.

“Maresar, do you see? They’re all congregating near that one plaza. And it’s too quiet. Did you hear me?”

“Twice. And it’s fine.”

The [Lord] glanced up. He had dark hair, not entirely black, closer to brown, and a stern, set face. His wife, Maresar, was far more relaxed than Venith, who was restlessly feeling at his sword and shield. She was tall, had short-cropped, black hair, and darker skin than Venith. She was a former [Bandit Lord], but she hadn’t bothered stringing her longbow. That relaxed Venith a bit; Maresar’s instincts were excellent, and if she didn’t seem ready for battle, it meant they were probably safe.

“What do you think? There. Look at that group. Fifteen youths. All armed. We should break it up, orders or not.”

He offered the monocle to Maresar, but she declined. She squinted at the spot he’d pointed to, picking it out with her eyes, enhanced by her [Eagle Eyes] Skill. She shook her head.

“No. They’re not a threat.”

“Until they attack someone. I don’t want to lose another soldier to a cut throat. You and I could—”

“No. We have orders.”

Venith bit his tongue. He and Maresar had been assigned to Ger by Orthenon a month ago, when it had become clear that the citizens were not tolerating Flos’ armies. With Maresar’s help, Venith had made it clear that anyone attacking soldiers would be dealt with in moments. She could hit half the city from her vantage point with her bow, and no amount of civilians armed with knives or clubs or stones could harm Venith. They were too high-level. Still, today, Venith felt his back crawling.

“It won’t be one or two groups that erupt if this comes to a head. You’ve seen this before. You know this city will erupt in violence, and if it does, it will be all of them versus us.”

“I know.”

“So…”

“We have orders. He told us to wait, so we’re waiting. Don’t you trust him?”

“I do.”

Venith ground out the words. He did trust, but it was hard. He shifted, walking back and forth until Maresar caught him. She squeezed his shoulder gently, and Venith looked at his wife. He grew calmer again.

To change the subject, he glanced southwest. He couldn’t see anything; a damn dust cloud had kicked up, obscuring the horizon, but he imagined he could still see the capital of Reim, the city in the distance.

“Calac’s in Reim still, isn’t he? With Orthenon.”

The [Lord] spoke sourly. He didn’t quite like Orthenon, although they were on the same side. The King’s Steward had his grudging respect over his friendship. Maresar nodded.

“And one of the twins. And Gazi.”

“Hmf. Do you think he’s well? Calac, I mean. He wanted to accompany us, but after his previous failure—”

“You told him no. So I said no. What more do you want?”

Venith didn’t say anything. Being a [Lord] was difficult. Being a father was worse. He glanced down at the streets again, spotted a girl with a potion bottle, handing it to a man who placed it in his pocket. He grimaced.

“Where is he? He told us to wait, but did he tell you anything? His Majesty?”

He looked up. Maresar bit her lip absently. She was scanning the city.

“No. But he’s here. You can feel it too, can’t you?”

The [Lord] nodded tightly. He swept his monocle across the city.

“What’s he doing?”

“He told me he was going to crush them.”

Venith’s head snapped up. He stared at Maresar.

“The rebels? Himself? By force?”

“Yes. Maybe? And no. He told us to wait. Trust him. You do, don’t you? Or are you having second thoughts?”

“I do. I do. I made my choice, and I don’t regret it. It’s just, it’s been so long—”

At last, Venith saw Maresar smile.

“Yes. It has. But if I look at him, it feels like yesterday, doesn’t it?”

“…Yes. It does. Sometimes. Other times…”

“So. Wait.”

Venith did. He saw them moving. The citizens of Ger. They were moving towards one spot, some gathering on rooftops, all of them. Towards a place hidden by a line of houses. He longed to ride down there and find out what—but he had orders. So he waited. And he waited for the King of Destruction. On the wind, he heard the whispers.

The Quarass lives.

But Venith had seen her die. He glanced at Maresar and shook his head. Germina was a Shield Kingdom. Ancient. It had been defeated easily enough on the battlefield, but Venith knew that a kingdom’s power wasn’t always based in the force of its army. There were old secrets. And he feared Germina had at least a few. So he waited. He wondered where his [King] was. Usually, you could spot him by the crowd. And the commotion.



——



There was a crowd. But the King of Destruction would not have been welcome in it. They were gathering as Venith had noticed, in a plaza too small to hold all of them. But they had chosen it precisely because it was out of sight of the palace. The people of Ger waited as a group of men, all former [Councilors], [First Warriors], or [Highborn]—Ger had no [Lords] or [Ladies]—fussed at the center of the gathering.

They were a motley group, different in station and rank. Some were barely important and, had the Quarass been alive, the inner circle of men wouldn’t have deigned to consort with them. But two-thirds of the Quarass’ court had been slain when the King of Destruction had taken the palace. So those that remained weren’t in a position to quibble.

In fact, the leader of this group of men was a [Councilor of State], the only member of the Quarass’ council who’d survived. He was hardly a leader, but he had loved the Quarass as fiercely as the other men.

As they all had. All those gathered in the plaza, sitting, standing, were fixed on the circle in the center. The men, sixteen or so, formed a ring of bodies, shielding something, someone with their long robes. It was the [Councilor of State] who walked back and forth, murmuring to himself, glancing at the sun, which was nearly overhead. He was dressed in a colorful robe, bright scarlet, normally strange for a man to be wearing. It made him look like a splash of blood amid the white. Every eye followed him as he walked back and forth.

And he was afraid. You could see it if you looked in his eyes, so he kept his gaze upwards, towards the clear blue skies and relentless sun. He was waiting for it to be exactly midday, but the sweat that rolled down his face had as much to do with the fear churning away at him as the heat. The other men standing in the circle were likewise sweating harder than the crowd, and more than one of them followed the leader in red’s pacing back and forth. The others had to fight to keep from glancing behind them. They too were afraid.

Perhaps, had they been zealots, they might have clung to the righteousness of their purpose. They could have reassured themselves in the divinity of their task, the infallibility guiding them, that they were following a higher power. But faith was dead, as were the gods. So it was only men who gathered here. Men, who were desperately afraid that their gathering would be broken up, or worse, that they would fail.

The people of Germina had gathered here because they knew what must be done. They knew who waited in the circle of men in robes. If the men here failed—and oh, they could fail—they would be torn apart. If the King of Destruction’s soldiers were to interfere, if everything wasn’t right or something went wrong…

Sweat and fear hung in the air in the circle of men. But the crowd was just waiting. They were common laborers and highborn folk. Men and women. But those in the circle, those in charge, for now, were men.

Men. Not women, for all that there were just as many daughters of Germina in the crowd as sons, young and old. But that was the way of things. The Quarass ruled, female, her word law, her lineage passed from daughter to daughter. And it was men who found her when the Quarass died.

The last of the crowd entered the plaza as the sun finally reached its zenith in the sky. A few people pushed through the crowd, though everyone was fighting for a view. A sea of faces, and the feeling that this was an important moment.

In such atmospheres, an errant cough or someone who needed to use the bathroom precisely at the wrong moment stood out. The leader in red was afraid of each instance, afraid that anything ruining the sanctity of the moment would cause the ritual to fail. But there were so many.

A pair of crying babies provoked each other. Someone tripped, causing a small collapse in the crowd. Worst of all, one of the men in the circle hurried out, causing a ripple to run through the crowd. Every eye fixed on the man, a [First Warrior], equivalent to what other countries called a [Knight] in terms of rank, hurried over to the [Councilor of State].

“Dead gods, what is it? Get back to your place! We’re about to start!”

The [Councilor] scream-whispered at the [First Warrior]. The younger man was far more fit than he, but both were practically white in the face. The [First Warrior] shook his head.

“The—she’s thirsty. She needs a drink.”

“A drink?”

Belatedly, the [Councilor] realized he’d forgotten to provide for that simple amenity. The…person sitting in the circle of men, who’d closed ranks to avoid her being seen by the crowd, had been sitting for hours in the sun. The [Councilor] cursed.

“Water. Fine, then. Sands take it! Get some!”

“From where?”

“I don’t know! But hurry!”

The [Councilor] saw the [First Warrior] hesitate and then turn. He called out; his voice strangled.

“Water. We need water. Has anyone a flask?”

Silence. Then several people offered theirs. The warrior hurried around, grabbing the two nearest and disappeared into the circle. Standing at the edge of the circle, the [Councilor] heard a muffled voice, a quiet, female one. A child’s voice. And then the [First Warrior] hurried out. The circle made room for him, and he nodded at the [Councilor].

Good. All was well. All would be well. The [Councilor of State] wished he were dead. He wished someone else were in his position. If he got this wrong—

If he had been capable, he would have prayed. But the thought of prayer didn’t even cross the [Councilor]’s mind. So he was just afraid. But the sun was overhead. And so he began.

“People of Germina. Bear witness! Gather here, in this sacred heart of the city. Gather, and bear witness! The Quarass is dead! So gather, sons and daughters! Gather! I, the son of Ger, call to you! Gather and bear witness!”

The crowd shifted. All eyes were on the [Councilor] now, on his red robes. He felt his voice crack on the last sentence. Oh, dead gods, he’d said it wrong. It wasn’t ‘people of Germina’, was it? It was ‘children of Germina’ or was it—‘chosen of Ger?’ And was it sons or daughters or—what had the old woman he’d consulted say it should be? She’d told him to shout this without the crowd, but he hadn’t dared. It was all going to go wrong. It wasn’t going to work! And then what?

Everyone was staring at him. The [Councilor] froze, but there was nowhere to run. So his tongue went on as his mind began screaming.

“Gather! Gather together! Gather to bear witness! The Quarass has fallen! But Germina must live! So gather—”

He faltered. They were gathered. What should he do? He switched to the next part, stumbling over his words.

“Pay heed. Lay down your burdens and still your hearts. For you will bear witness to a resurrection. The Quarass has fallen. By blade, by war. By wrath and treachery, by the King of Destruction!”

That stirred the people in the crowd. The [Councilor] saw faces contort with fury. He went on.

“But now is not the time for vengeance. The Quarass is dead. Germina is broken. The sands will take the kingdom and wash the stones away to dust. Our blood shall soak the deserts, and no thing will grow. The kingdom needs its heart. So the Quarass must live.”

She must live.

The murmur came from the crowd, thousands of voices speaking as one. They hadn’t practiced it; it was spontaneous, and it dried the [Councilor]’s throat even more. He coughed.

“So—so we are gathered. To witness her rebirth. By blood of lineage, she will be called. By the needs of her people, she shall arise! By the will of Germina, she returns! Bear witness!”

Lies. All lies. The ritual called for the Quarass’ firstborn daughter. But her daughter was dead, killed in her bed six years past after trying to take the throne. The bloodline of the Quarass had ended with her. So they’d found a child. A girl who looked a bit like the Quarass. The old woman had said that might do. But she wasn’t sure. And the child was—a child.

But he was in too far. He’d never had a choice, really. He was the only one who knew the words, or so the others had been convinced. But the [Councilor] didn’t know the words. What he was shouting was a mix of what he could remember and what the old woman thought was supposed to be said. He was sure that ‘bear witness’ wasn’t supposed to be said so many times!

“So let three come forth. Three of the sands. Three of Chandrar. Of those gathered here, who has the will? Who will be chosen? The will of Germina calls you. Who will witness the Quarass and make the oath?”

This time, the crowd moved as one. Those sitting surged to their feet. Those standing crowded closer. The [Councilor] had to shout as the men in the circle locked arms, afraid they’d be rushed.

“Hold! Hold back! I will—choose among you.”

Only, here it all went wrong. The crowd was pushing forwards, and someone—the [Councilor] didn’t know who—shouted.

“The three aren’t chosen! One comes from foreign lands! One comes of Germina! And one comes as a child!”

The [Councilor] froze. And the crowd drew back. He looked to see who’d said it. It had been a young voice. Female. Worse, she’d sounded confident. The [Councilor] ran with it.

“Yes! Yes! One of Germina! Who will—”

A surge again. But the [Councilor] was ready. He jabbed a finger at a likely figure. He remembered one of the old three, an old woman who’d been the Quarass’ guide until her passing. The three had to be exemplary, so he pointed at a woman in the crowd.

“You. Name yourself!”

The figure he’d indicated stepped forwards as people looked at her. She hardly needed introduction as she gave her name.

“[Highborn] Vaitsha Zectiou. I am Vaitsha, daughter of Germina. I will witness the Quarass.”

She was one of the richest of the [Highborn] in the city. A powerful woman. The [Councilor] nodded, and she stepped forwards until she stood in front of the circle of men. She shot the [Councilor] a sideways look as he scanned the crowd.

The child was next. He didn’t remember a child—but the Quarass had been in power when he’d been born. So he pointed at a young boy.

“You. Do you have the courage to accompany the Quarass until her passing?”

The young boy shook and trembled in fear. He looked about to wet himself and stammered a string of gibberish. The [Councilor] knew he’d picked wrong. So he shook his head before the boy could speak again. He sought once more, found another boy in the crowd, this one older. Nine or so? He looked like a [Street Tough], if he had a class at all. But his eyes were piercing, and he didn’t waver as the [Councilor] pointed at him.

“You. Have you the courage to accompany the Quarass?”

“I do! And may I serve the Quarass and the sands take me if I have anything less!”

The youth shouted back. He had a scar above one eye, and, as he walked through the crowd, a large one on his uncovered left leg. At least he wasn’t a slave. What a mistake that would be!

Two down. But the last was suddenly a pressing issue for the [Councilor]. A foreigner? Germina had few foreigners in its capital before the war with Reim. And now—he shouted desperately.

“Who comes from foreign lands? Who of Chandrar will bear witness to the Quarass? Who will swear the oath?”

Then there was silence. The children of Germina looked around, suddenly wary. A foreigner? Any one of them would have volunteered, but according to the rules one voice had shouted—and the [Councilor] didn’t even know if they were real!—it had to be a foreigner. But who could that be? One of the [Soldiers] patrolling the streets? If they had to kidnap someone—

Fear. It was all going to fall apart. If a patrol happened by and they heard what was happening because the ritual took too long—they’d stationed people to ward off any patrols headed this way. But they had to have a third. The [Councilor] shouted again.

“Is there anyone not of Chandrar? Not born on Germina’s soil?”

He hoped someone in the crowd had been born outside of Germina. A cousin, maybe. Or a wife? A husband from afar? Anyone! He heard a few voices, and the crowd broke up, seeking the speakers. But then a figure bellowed, louder than the rest.

“I have come far, from lands where Germina’s name has long passed. I am a son of the sands, Chandrar born. I am not of Ger and was not born of its waters. But I will bear witness to the Quarass. I will swear the oath.”

The crowd parted. A giant strode forth, a tall man with dark skin, his features plain, but his arms and body huge. For all that, he looked intelligent, and he had a pair of glass spectacles on his broad nose. A [Scholar]? He glanced around, and people stared up at him. The [Councilor] could have wept.

“Yes! Come, then! And all bear witness! You three, stand before the circle. The Quarass is dead, but she must live!”

They were at the heart of it now, and hope was replacing fear in the [Councilor]’s chest. The three stood together, Vaitsha and—damn, the other two hadn’t named themselves!

No hope for it. The [Councilor] lifted his arms and turned, the ill-fitting red robe swirling around him.

“You three will bring her forth! The Quarass is dead, but the Quarass lives! Step forwards and claim her, chosen three! And swear an oath—”

He broke off. The bespectacled giant was looking at him. It was just a look, but it told the [Councilor] he’d erred somehow. The broad-shouldered man spoke, in a voice that carried across the crowd in a way that the [Councilor]’s shouting could not. The crying babies went silent. The gathering, already silent, went still.

“The Quarass is dead. Germina waits. So by Ger and by the blood of Quar, let the kingdom never pass in the shadow of the sun. Let the Quarass be reborn. So we gather here. Three. One of Ger, to remind the Quarass-to-be of who she was. One of childhood to follow the Quarass until her death and take it in her place. And one of distant sands, to tell her of what is and what must be. Let us bring her forth and swear our oath on blood and the stones of Ger to ever be her protectors.”

There was silence after that. And the [Councilor] felt something stir in his chest. The words struck home; they were too real to be fake. He sagged in relief. Someone else knew the old words!

“Yes. Yes, that’s—that is what must be done. So bring her forth. You three. Enter and call her name. And let it be the last time her name is ever spoken. Hear it, and know that who you find within is dead. And she will emerge the Quarass. Swear your oaths before her then.”

Like that, the circle of men opened. It was a precise movement, so that the crowd only saw the backs of the three before they stepped forwards and the circle closed. And then there was nothing.

No one spoke. No one moved. The [Councilor] heard very little, even as close to the circle of men as he was. He could see them looking outwards, arms linked, eyes wide. But what passed in the circle—no one could say.

There were voices. A female voice—that of Vaitsha. A rumble from the giant. A high-pitched voice from the youth, nervous despite his courage. And then—the [Councilor] heard a higher voice still. A girl’s tremulous words. A name, but he didn’t hear it. Then the circle opened, and the crowd saw her.

A girl. She was dressed in white, a simple dress of cotton. Her face was dark, and her eyes pale yellow. Her hair was parted in a widow’s peak and a warm black—that was slightly like the look of the old Quarass, though fifty years separated the two. This child couldn’t have been more than ten.

And she was a child. Not the Quarass. How could she be? The [Councilor] froze. He could feel the crowd rustle. But not like before. Now it was an ominous sound. They had been promised the Quarass. And the child who was shaking with nerves and fear was not her. Her dress was wet near the neck where she’d spilled some water on herself while drinking.

“Hold.”

The giant said the word before something could happen. He looked across the citizens of Germina, and the [Councilor], who had never prayed, tried to believe that he knew what was missing. Somehow, the foreigner did.

“Before the Quarass is reborn, she must accept the oaths of the three and hear her people call for her. So I stand here. A foreigner of the sands. Finder of the Quarass, charge me with my oaths.”

He pointed at the [Councilor]. The man jumped and stopped looking for a way to escape. He turned back, and again, his tongue took over for his brain.

“Do you swear to protect the Quarass, stranger of the sands? Do you swear to be her guardian and guide? If so, swear by blood. Swear on the stones of Ger, with all to witness!”

It was a desperate shout. The stranger nodded. He reached for his belt and pulled out a simple dagger of steel. He cut his arm, a powerful gash that made half the crowd wince. His blood ran down his arm as he held it out, letting his blood drip on the mud brick stones.

“I swear it by the Shield Kingdoms, by Germina’s soil and the Oasis of Ger. The Quarass lives, and let my flesh and blood spill upon the sands before hers.”

His words echoed. They shouldn’t have. But for a second, they rolled, like distant desert thunder. And for a second, the [Councilor] could swear he felt a breeze blow in the plaza. It smelled of distant lands. Of sands, a world unknown.

Suddenly, the atmosphere changed. The fear in the [Councilor] went away. He felt a stirring in the air, like magic, but more powerful. He turned. Suddenly, there were words in his chest, and his eyes were alight.

“You. Child. Do you swear to protect the Quarass? Do you swear to be her guardian and companion? If so, swear by blood. Swear on the stones of Ger, with all to witness.”

The youth had no dagger. But there was a bit of mud brick broken on the ground. As if by chance, he bent and snatched it up. With a single furious slash, he opened his wrist. Blood dripped onto the stones.

“I swear! I swear by the Shield Kingdoms! By the Oasis and waters! The Quarass lives! Let me die before she does!”

His voice was thunder. This time, the breeze blew, and the [Councilor] was reminded of his youth. Of a time he had all but forgotten, when he was young and knew so little. When he was young.

All watched as he turned for Vaitsha.

“Do you swear, daughter of Ger? Do you swear to protect the Quarass? To be her guardian and friend? If so, swear by blood. Swear on the stones of Ger, with all to witness.”

Vaitsha’s eyes were wide. She spoke, trembling, pulled by the same force now guiding everyone present. Her hands retrieved a delicate belt knife, ivory and steel, and her cut was no less deep than the other two. Her blood ran down her dress and stained the ground.

“I swear. I swear by the Shield Kingdoms, by Germina, my home. By the Oasis, I swear to be her friend. And let me die before she does. Let me be worthy of it.”

A sigh ran through the audience. But it wasn’t over. The [Councilor] turned. Now he shouted. Now he screamed, where he had not dared to before. As if he were afraid of being silly. Now his lungs burst as he howled at those gathered.

“The oaths are pledged! The three stand before you! And she awaits! So call to her! Sons and daughters of Germina, call to your Quarass! And so long as Germina endures, let her come! Call her!”

He saw them look at her. The child looked up, shaking. And the voice that came from her was a scream that shook Ger. It broke paint. It made the foreigners on the streets clap their hands to their ears and sink to the ground. It killed—yes. Two rooftops collapsed, sending those sitting on them to their deaths. The word.

“Quarass!”

The girl fell backwards. Her eyes rolled up in her head. She collapsed, and the giant caught her. A brown hand laid the child down on the ground, and every eye fixed on her. Men. Women. Children. Even the [Councilor], who had forgotten to run. He stared. Hoping. Praying that the ritual really could bring her back.

Hope. That was all they had. Not faith for gods. Not religion. But perhaps there was something similar. The gods were dead, but you had to believe in something. So they called for her. And, slowly, the small figure stirred. She raised her head, looked around. She sat up, clutching at her brow. And then she got to her feet, unsteadily, using one hand for support.

She was the same as she had been. A child with a large forehead. Dark hair. Pale yellow eyes. But when she looked around, her gaze found the [Councilor]. His heart stopped. Because he felt it. He saw it in her gaze. He felt it in his soul.

“The Quarass lives.”

It was a whisper. Then a shout. The [Councilor] turned. He raised his arms, and his eyes wept even as he laughed and screamed it.

“The Quarass lives!”

It was her. You couldn’t deny it. It was the same presence. The same feel that came from her. Faint, weak, but there. She was the Quarass of Germina. And the crowd roared. They fell to their knees and bowed. The sixteen men fell to their knees, weeping like the [Councilor].

Only the three who had pledged their oaths stood. The boy was caught between bowing and staring at the girl Quarass in disbelief. Vaitsha was staring at her ruler with tears in her eyes. And the giant? He looked around and spoke. And his words cut through the rejoicing like a razor sheared wool.

“The Quarass died. And she lives. I have sworn it. To protect her with my life before hers. I swore it on Ger. I swore it on the waters that give you life and on my blood. But that is the oath of a foreigner. There is one more oath I have to give.”

The [Councilor] turned to him in disbelief. The crowd looked up. The giant with dark skin and glasses reached for his neck. He had nothing there, but as his hand grasped something and tore it away, an amulet shimmered into existence. It dropped from his hand, a broken jewel and silver chain. The giant changed.

He grew no shorter. But his bulging arms became thinner, if not by much. His skin changed, and his dark hair became red and gold, only slightly faded by time. There were wrinkles on his face left by age. Grief and mirth. But what changed most about him was his presence.

Before, he had been a man. A colossus who commanded the eye. But the figure who stood before the Quarass now was a different kind of giant. The kind men fought and died for. A figure to love or hate, but never ignore. He attracted every eye, as if the world bent around him. But that was his nature. For he was a [King].

The King of Destruction stood in front of the Quarass. He surveyed the crowd, which had gone still with shock and fear, and turned. The [Councilor] quailed before him, but it was the Quarass he sought.

She stared up at him, a small figure. She did not turn to run or flee, though she shook. The other two tried to place themselves in front of the king. The street boy tried to charge the King of Destruction, but his legs wouldn’t move. Vaitsha tried to throw herself in his path, but the King of Destruction walked around her. He stopped in front of the Quarass. Then he bent.

His arm was still cut open. His blood still ran. The [King] slowly bent onto one knee, looking down at the Quarass. And his voice had that same quality, the same echo as he met the Quarass’ eyes.

“I swore to protect you. And I swear it again. I will allow no harm to come to you. I will pledge myself to death before you. So long as Germina endures, I will be your guardian and guide. I, Flos Reimarch, swear it by my Seven. By Reim, my kingdom, my heart. I swear it by my crown. I swear it as your King.”

His voice rang throughout the plaza. Flos, the King of Destruction, turned. When he looked around, the spell broke. The crowd screamed in horror and awe, and the [Councilor of State] regained his senses. He raised a hand, pointed at the figure behind Flos.

“P-protect the—”

The words froze in his mouth. The King of Destruction was too close. He could slay the Quarass in a moment. The other men who’d been part of the circle had their weapons drawn, but they were afraid. Even the [First Warriors] were no match for the legendary king.

But he was alone, and the crowd had seen their Quarass. They surged forwards, shouting the same words. They might have swarmed Flos, but the [King] only raised his wounded arm. He pointed.

“Halt.”

And they did. Against their will, they stopped moving. The King of Destruction looked at them.

“People of Germina, do you seek my life?”

Of course they did. They shouted at him, helpless to move but free to rage.

“Murderer! Monster!”

“You ravaged our lands!”

“You killed my son!”

“You killed my mother!”

“This is our city! Begone, murderer! Begone!”

“King of Death! King of Destruction!”

The insults and cries poured out, jumbling, too many to be heard. Flos listened, seeing the rage in them. Then he raised a hand, and there was silence again.

“Yes. I did all these things. And I would do them a second time. I destroyed your armies. I slaughtered your kin, your friends and countrymen. I invaded your lands, and I hold your city in my hands. But tell me, people of Germina. Should I do it a second time? For these are my lands now. I claimed them by right of conquest. And you who strike at my [Soldiers] strike at my kingdom. You would make war. So tell me, people of Germina, should I bring destruction to Ger a second time?”

He spread his arms, looking around. The crowd quailed. The King of Destruction’s eyes blazed.

“I left your people unscathed! I left your homes intact! My armies did not despoil, did not loot or rape or pillage! But still Germina seethes, fighting my armies day by day. Your people’s blood and mine run in the sands. To what end?”

“Our freedom. Germina will not tolerate you, tyrant.”

The voice came from behind Flos. He turned and looked at Vaitsha. The [Highborn] lady stared hatred at him. The King returned her glance as if she were an ant.

“Then the war has not ended. And to protect my people, I would slaughter all present. Man, woman, children. Make no mistake, Vaitsha of Ger. But I have said it once and I say it again: I am your [King]. And you have witnessed this as well: my oath.”

He raised his arm. The sight of the blood reminded everyone that, yes, Flos had sworn the oath. So the bloodlust pumping through their veins slowed and they listened. Warily, for here paced the lion. Flos looked from face to face, and few could meet his eyes for long.

“Forty years.”

The [Councilor of State] blinked. He stared at Flos. So did the others. Flos said it again.

“Forty years. How long may a Human man live? Even a [King]? A hundred years? Likely, at most. So. Forty years. And if blades take me or a spell claims my life or my heart gives out, much less time. But forty years. For forty years, I claim Germina. I claim your kingdom and name you as my people. My subjects.”

There was a roar of protest from the crowd. But again, Flos silenced them.

“Forty years! And I will rule you as [King], and Germina shall prosper. Once, I rode across Germina and you fought for me. Do you not remember those days? Were they not the greatest you have lived through before or since?”

He turned, eyes blazing. The [Councilor of State] flinched. But he did remember. There was war, but there was always war. And people returned from the front lines with gold and treasure and more levels than you could count. There was no shortage of food, and Germina grew as it expanded. He remembered those days. And he remembered them as Flos turned his head and he caught a glimpse of that figure from afar. It was true. Once, he had been their [King].

“Germina was once mine. Mine, but it forgot me as I slumbered. And its ruler has always been the Quarass. She reigned even as I ruled. But when I awoke from my slumber, she took arms against me. For that, she died. I killed her.”

Yes. If they could have killed him, the people in the crowd might. But they looked at the Quarass, standing still behind Flos. And they felt something shift in the air. This time, they listened, wondering what came next.

“Your Quarass lives. She is young, but she lives. And I came here to swear the oath you all heard today. Let all the children of Germina hear it, not only those of Ger! I stand surety for the Quarass’ life with my own.”

Flos raised his arm a third time. The bleeding was slowing, but still it ran. Vaitsha and the youth were pale behind Flos from blood loss, but he seemed not to even notice.

“As long as I endure, I will protect the Quarass. And when I pass, Germina will rise once again. But will it do so as a broken nation, governed by an iron fist, or as a proud one? I cannot be shifted. I have claimed Germina, but I would rather you join my kingdom. Join my kingdom and ride with me across all the sands of Chandrar! Let your kingdom return to its glory, children of Germina! Be mine until my death. I have need of you.”

He held out a hand, and the [Councilor] felt something pull at his heart. A part of him wanted to step forwards and shout that he would follow Flos. But only a part. The rest of him wanted to shout at the [King], if only he dared. And he saw the rest of those gathered were just as conflicted.

The King of Destruction saw it too. He waited for a heartbeat, then turned. The Quarass stood behind him, a child, but their ruler. It was to her Flos spoke next.

“This is my pact, Quarass of Germina. You sent armies into my lands. You attacked my people. And you used children as weapons of war. For all these things and more, you paid with your life. But we were once allies.”

He extended a hand to her, the same hand streaked with drying blood. The citizens of Ger looked up as Flos held it towards the small figure.

“I hold you no grudge now; join with me and let your people strive alongside mine until it is time. I will not contest Ger, and I will not keep you from your throne. But we must be allies of blood until my death. Take your kingdom, Quarass, but do it as part of my own, and I will make yours a nation remembered in legends for a thousand years. Will you accept my offer?”

The Quarass looked at him. Her eyes were old. Scarcely half an hour ago, they had been young, innocent and afraid. But something older looked out from them. Old and young. She was still a child. But she was the Quarass. And because she was both, she hesitated. The citizens waited. On her words turned their fates. If she ordered it, they would fall on Flos, and it would be his death and theirs. If she ordered it.

At last, the Quarass nodded. Oh, so slightly. She reached out with her tiny hand and took Flos’ outstretched palm. Her voice was quiet, but all could hear it. The silence was absolute. The Quarass spoke.

“Yes. By Ger’s waters, I say it is so.”

A sigh ran through the crowd. A sigh, and then a voice of protest, swiftly cut off. The spell was broken. A hubbub rose, voices asking what had happened, someone shouting again, trying to shout to the Quarass. A woman screamed vengeance against Flos and launched herself, but the crowd was against her. There was still something moving them. The will of the Quarass, this time.

The [Councilor] felt it. He bowed to the Quarass, sinking to his knees in his red robes, sweat staining his clothing. He was so relieved he couldn’t move; his legs had given out. Some of the other former councilors and members of her court did the same, or tried to move closer. But the King of Destruction forced them back with a glance.

So it was with the crowd. Those who wished to see the Quarass crowded forwards or simply wept in place with the same relief. But others who couldn’t stand the agreement, who stared at Flos with hatred, began to push away.

Not towards him, though some vowed vengeance and shouted his death at the [King]’s back. But they still moved back out of the crowd, as if they couldn’t help it. They kept moving, running down the streets, fleeing the [Soldiers] of Flos’ army who were finally moving towards their [King]. They fled the city, a few hundred, while the rest of Ger remained.

Chaos. Venith Crusland marched a full three hundred [Soldiers] through the crowd, ordering them back, shouting at them to make way. His [Soldiers] forced through towards the King of Destruction and encircled him, ignoring the insults and crowd pushing forwards. There was no violence, which surprised him but not Maresar.

“He told you. Keep them back. [Thunder Arrow]!”

She drew an arrow and shot it into the sky. The people closest to her ducked and covered their ears, flinching back. Venith guided his horse forwards, shouting.

“Form a ring around the [King]! Back up! Back up, I said! Your Quarass will be fine! You can see her later! Get back!”

“Venith! Venith!”

He heard someone shouting his name in the press. The voice was familiar, so Venith pointed. A group of his [Soldiers] pushed into the crowd and emerged with someone. An unfamiliar Germinan girl. Venith stared at her, confused. Then the girl tugged at a ring, and her features changed.

Like Flos, the illusion magic turned the dark-skinned girl into another figure. Slightly taller, fairer skinned, like a Terandrian or someone born of Izril. Venith did recognize her.

“Teres!”

The young girl from another world nodded, and Venith pointed. The [Soldiers] brought her into the circle of space, and Venith leaned down to shout at her.

“Is this His Majesty’s doing?”

“Yes! He helped bring back the Quarass!”

“I gathered that! What next?”

Teres could only shake her head. Venith cursed. He held out a hand.

“Come on, I’ll bring you to him!”

He rode Teres towards Flos, who’d stayed where he was. The King of Destruction stood in silence next to the Quarass, keeping the people around them away by sheer force of presence. The young child was staring wide-eyed at her citizens, who were still fighting to get to her. Calling out her name.

“A strange sight, isn’t it? You’ll get used to it soon.”

The King of Destruction remarked as Venith led Teres towards him. The [Lord] stopped to let Teres jump to the ground, then turned to marshal his soldiers to keep holding the crowds back. Flos turned. The Quarass looked up at him. Teres, who’d approached hesitantly, halted and shuddered.

The child. Teres had seen her before the ceremony, before everyone had called out her name. She’d just looked like a kid, then. An ordinary kid like the young boy with the scars standing behind her. But now her gaze held something old in it. And she didn’t look as afraid as before, even as the King of Destruction bent to speak with her.

“A second thing, Quarass. These child [Assassins] that Germina uses. I wish them stopped. I know your kingdom houses their training grounds, and my people have not found them yet. I do not wish the children killed or…abandoned. But let them grow as children. No more of them, not as tools of Reim. Not ever. Have we a second deal?”

The Quarass tilted her head. Her lips were calmly pressed together, her gaze imperious. Teres saw her glance towards her crowd, up at Flos—not one whit afraid. A silent calculation ran behind her eyes, and then she nodded. Her voice was still a child’s, but it sounded like an adult.

“I agree. But I will not stop from using my [Assassins]. They are mine. And we are allies, King of Destruction. The Quarass kneels, but she does not bow.”

Flos nodded gravely. He met the Quarass’ eyes levelly. It was a ludicrous sight, the imposing King of Destruction of over six feet in height stooping to address the tiny Quarass. Ludicrous until they glanced at you.

“Just so. My soldiers will stop patrolling by sundown. Your palace will be cleared by then as well. And if ever you should call, I will come. It is a heavy burden you wear. That invisible crown.”

The Quarass hesitated. The impassive mask slipped suddenly.

“Yes. It is. Thank you.”

For a second, she looked like a child again. Then her back straightened, and she nodded to Venith and Maresar and the [Soldiers].

“Withdraw them. Those are my people. They should come to me.”

“As you wish. Venith!”

Flos turned and roared. Teres and the Quarass jumped, as well as everyone around Flos. He had an incredible voice. Venith turned, and Flos raised his arm. He’d healed it with a potion and apparently shared it about because neither Vaitsha nor the boy were bleeding any longer. Flos waved his hand at Venith in a circle.

“To me! We leave the Quarass to her people!”

The crowd roared, and Venith slowly drew the circle inwards, forming around Flos and Teres. The Quarass took a few deep breaths, then glanced at Teres with a frown. She was standing by the King of Destruction, and you would have had to have been a fool to not have noticed how she was standing by his side where no one else was.

“Who is this? She is not one of your Seven, King Flos of Reim. Is she a wife? A consort? A slave?”

Teres’ jaw dropped. Flos laughed, and the child-Quarass scowled, embarrassed.

“No. She is not. This is Teres, one of my two personal attendants. Remember her, Quarass.”

“I will.”

Those old eyes swung to Teres, and the girl shuddered. She heard the clatter of hooves and saw Venith riding towards Flos.

“To the palace, Your Majesty? I can’t keep the crowd back, and the ones who fled the city looked—”

“To the gates, Venith! Leave Ger as I promised! Those who fled are enemies of Reim—and of Germina.”

The King of Destruction looked at the Quarass, and she nodded. He stepped forwards. Venith dismounted, but the King of Destruction waved a hand.

“Keep your horse, I’ll walk. Teres, with me!”

He beckoned her, and she followed. Just like that, or perhaps, as expected. You couldn’t help but follow if someone like Flos beckoned. The Quarass knew that. She knew many things, for all she was a girl of barely nine years. She was old and young. She had died, and her body had been carried out of the Seat of Ger weeks before. But she now lived again.

The Quarass lives. As she watched the King of Destruction go, his pledge echoed in her mind. The young Quarass heard a timid voice.

“Quarass?”

She turned. Vaitsha was on her knees. So was the [Councilor of States] and what remained of the Quarass’ court. She knew them all from memory. She knew their names, their pasts, everything the old Quarass had known. But the new one didn’t feel the same way about all of them. She was afraid, scared, and at the same time, weighed down, just like Flos had said. She wished he had stayed, but her memories told her she had to be alone. At least for now.

“Rise, Vaitsha. I am the Quarass. And you are one of my three. What is it you have to say?”

The [Highborn] lady rose, cheeks pale. Eyes sparkling as she looked at her ruler in the flesh. She hesitated, but the young Quarass wasn’t the King of Destruction yet, so she gave words to the uncertainty she and the others around her probably felt.

“Quarass, is it wise? He is the King of Destruction. And he swore an oath. But.”

She trailed off. But. But he had still invaded. But Germina would be absorbed into Reim, even if the Quarass could still rule. But the world feared and hated the King of Destruction and Germina would have to fight wars in Flos’ name. The Quarass knew that too, but she took a different view from the old one. Each Quarass was different, after all.

“Yes. He is destruction, and yes, he did invade. But we have sworn an oath. Better to be a kingdom under another [King] than one ruined by fruitless war. The King of Destruction is a fool, and a force of nature. He cannot be stopped. And though he is a fool, he does not forswear himself. So we are part of Reim. And any who would harm him go against my will. Let that be known.”

She saw Vaitsha’s head bow, along with the other members of court. The Quarass felt a headache, the first in her young life, beset her. How many would be traitorous, or how many could be trusted once they realized she wasn’t the old Quarass? Had the [Councilor of States]—whose name was Ilhmet, a detail even the old Quarass hadn’t really cared much to remember—chosen wisely in Vaitsha and…

The Quarass glanced at the ground. The young street boy had not risen. He was still kneeling, pressing his head to the mud brick. She bent.

“You. What is your name?”

He looked up at her with wide eyes.

“Me, Quarass?”

She glared at him. A young face looking into a boy five years older than she was.

“Yes, you. You are one of my three, are you not? Well, the King of Destruction has already left. So tell me your name, my guardian and companion. And rise, for I have need of your strength.”

The young boy rose. He smiled at his Quarass, and she saw he was strong, for all he was a street child. His body was wiry, and his eyes burned with the courage of a man already.

“I will be your strength, Quarass! And whatever else you ask of me! I am Khalid, who has no last name!”

There was still blood on his skin and clothes from where his arm had bled. The Quarass stared at it. Then she held out her hand. Khalid stared at it, but the Quarass was intent.

“Then, Khalid. I will hold you to that oath. Until my death, let us remake Germina into what it was and could be. Come with me.”

Khalid hesitated. But the Quarass was frowning, so he gingerly took her hand. The crowd that surged forwards as the King of Destruction left paused when they saw him holding the Quarass’ hands. They stopped and stared as the Quarass turned, and her eyes flashed with the memories of countless dead women as Vaitsha and her court knelt behind her.

It was indeed a moment you saw only once in your life. Of such moments were legends born, here, on a small mud brick street, between a street boy and a girl ruler. But such legends are not always told, and another legend that had already echoed around the world once walked calmly out of the city of Ger, capital of Germina.



——



Flos Reimarch, King of Destruction and ruler of Reim and now Germina, stretched his arms up and yawned. Something popped, and he twisted his neck.

“Ah, that’s better. Venith, pull your soldiers out of Germina but keep them in place at the border. You and Maresar will hold here until Orthenon gives you further orders; he’ll no doubt wish to visit, but I shall recall you to Reim shortly. Germina is now allied with Reim, if you had not heard. Maresar, rally your riders. Those who fled the city will soon take up arms against it, and I would rather the Quarass not deal with traitors on her first day.”

Venith and Maresar turned towards their King. The [Soldiers], who had been pelted with paint pellets and sand, coughed and wiped their faces. Teres stared at Flos.

“What, just like that?”

He glanced at her. Flos Reimarch’s voice was a normal Human baritone, when he wasn’t speaking as a [King]. But if you listened, you could still hear that odd reverberation behind some of his words. He was tall, imposing, and, Teres had to admit, handsome, all of which gave him the regal air of…of…well, a [King]. One right out of a children’s book, if the artist was exceptionally talented.

“I told you I planned on crushing Germina’s rebellion today, didn’t I, Teres?”

“You did, but I thought you’d be hanging people or doing something else! I had no idea you meant all that!”

Venith coughed as he stood next to his king. He glanced at Teres with the same bit of bewilderment she always saw him give her. He was still working out her exact rank. Maresar, who was more easygoing and didn’t really care, leaned on Venith’s horse and addressed Flos over the back.

“The Quarass. We can trust her?”

Flos stroked his beard.

“Hm. I can’t say for certain, but my instincts tell me yes. And I have sworn to leave her city. The Quarass was always practical, and her current incarnation seems level-headed. More importantly, she is brave, which is a far better quality to have. So we will give her trust—but only that. Venith’s army will camp outside and still request supplies from Germina. Even if she rallies her entire city, it would be a mistake to set them against your forces.”

“As you wish, Your Majesty. And I will hunt down those stragglers. May I ask why they fled?”

“[The Choice of the Conquered].”

Flos sighed. Maresar’s brows shot up, but she only nodded. Teres stared at Flos.

“The choice of the what? Is that a Skill?”

Venith shot her a glare, probably for talking to the King of Destruction out of turn. Some of the [Soldiers] were also giving Teres the fisheye, but she was used to it. Flos only grinned as he replied.

“Of course. It’s one of my Skills. A powerful one, too. You saw those in the crowd who left after I made my vow and the Quarass allied herself with me? They are rebels. Traitors who won’t obey me or her.”

Teres remembered them pushing out of the crowd, shouting at Flos.

“You mean, you made them like that?”

Flos hesitated.

“Say rather that I gave them a choice. I gave everyone present a choice, Teres. That is the nature of the Skill. If there is even a glimmer of chance that they would acknowledge me as their ruler, they weren’t affected. Only those who will never bow, never suffer me, will flee. Only someone exceptionally high-level or strong of will could have stayed.”

“Oh. So it’s like a…lie detector test? A loyalty test?”

“Mm. Something like that. But as I said, it only finds those for whom I would never command their loyalties. Anyone with even a hint—isn’t affected. Half the crowd could well end up trying to kill me, but there’s a chance they’ll be my citizens. Which is fine by me!”

He laughed again, carefree as could be. That was Flos, and believe it or not, this was actually not that strange of a day for Teres anymore. She shook her head.

“So we resurrected a Quarass, identified a bunch of enemies, and now Maresar hunts them down, Venith camps, and we…do what?”

“Confer, for one more moment. Venith, I need a horse and escort. We head to Hellios on a similar errand. Actually, I would do without the escort if you need the men, but Orthenon will object.”

“As would I. You’ll have a hundred men, Your Majesty.”

Flos sighed as Venith turned and shouted for horses and the escort. He looked at Maresar.

“Lady Maresar—”

“I wasn’t a [Lady] when you first met me, Your Majesty.”

He grinned.

“Bandit Lord Maresar, then. Maresar the Wolf.”

She laughed, and Flos went on as Venith gave both his liege and his wife a look of chagrin.

“Hunt down the fleeing traitors by all means, but don’t overreach. Some might have high levels and flee to pockets of resistance. I struck a deal with the Quarass to ban her child assassins, but some of her [Assassins] may rebel. So be on the lookout for them.”

“I will be careful, my liege.”

“And Maresar, take them captive if possible. Execute them swiftly only if you must.”

Flos sighed. Maresar nodded, the slight smile on her face never changing. Teres eyed her. Take them captive meant turn them into slaves. But she bit her lip rather than say anything. If Trey had been here, he might have objected. Flos sighed.

“It is a pity that they fled, Teres. [Choice of the Conquered] is a useful Skill, but…were I a better king, much less a better [King], I think they would all have stayed. But this is enough. Now Germina is part of Reim.”

“And that’s a good thing? It feels like you just gave up the country.”

Flos smiled.

“Hardly. You think I could manage to subdue Germina without years of martial rule? This was far easier since I knew the Quarass could be reborn. And this is how my empire always expanded. Province by province, kingdom by kingdom. Germina will regain much of its strength with its Quarass, and now its armies will march alongside mine.”

“It’s that easy?”

The King shrugged. Venith had left and was returning with two horses.

“Not at all. Orthenon will need to work closely with the Quarass, and there will still be unrest, difficulties…but it will be far easier now. Venith, I commend you for keeping Germina and the area from full-blown revolt until the Quarass was found. I was honestly worried that they’d forgotten the ritual.”

“It was nothing, Your Majesty. And I will await Orthenon’s visit with pleasure.”

Lady Maresar rolled her eyes and smiled silently. Flos grinned and patted the stallion Venith led towards him. He swung himself into the saddle as Teres awkwardly mounted with a stirrup.

“I missed your lies, Venith. Well, Teres! To Hellios, then! It is a two-day ride from capital to capital nonstop. If we rest our horses and with my Skills, we’ll make it in one. Come! You can tell me a story of gods on the way.”

Like that, he was gone. Venith shouted at the escort of [Soldiers] to ride after the King of Destruction as he rode down the road that slowly changed from mud bricks to just dirt. The King of Destruction rode on, Teres, a girl from another world, at his side. It was early spring. And this was how the King of Destruction spent his days. Riding, talking about other worlds, laughing with his companions of old.

And plotting to take over the world. As one does.



——



The ride through Germina’s lands was quiet. That wasn’t to say that Teres didn’t see people. There were villages, even a town they passed on the road heading east. But there were no travellers on the road aside from a City Runner who took one look at their procession and started running perpendicular to them.

Germina might have had trade, but the [Merchants] and caravans normally travelling between nations and cities had no desire to be caught up in the continuing battles between Germina’s remnants and Flos’ army.

Only one type of caravan would brave the journey right now, and Teres was glad not to see any of that sort. She contented herself with looking around at the arid lands and sparse settlements until that grew boring. Germina, as a nation of oases, was relatively flat, much like Reim. Hellios was apparently more fertile, if only by comparison.

It was a day’s ride from Ger to the capital city of Hellios, Blalevault, even with the fresh horses and Flos’ Skill, which made the ground underneath the hooves of their horses flash past. It was a deceptively slow journey to Teres; until she realized that she was comparing the speed they were going at to that of a car.

Still, a day was a day, which meant that somehow they had to pass the time. Teres didn’t know how the [Soldiers] following them and riding ahead did it, but Flos occupied himself by talking with her. It went something like this. They would be riding along in silence, Teres not thinking of much in particular and zoning out, until she had a thought or question and rode closer to Flos to ask it. Or he did the same to her.

“So, if bringing the Quarass back was so important, why did you wait for nearly a month to do it? Venith was sending you reports of how hard it was to keep control. Why did you wait for them to decide to do it and not do it yourself? Or at least tell them how to do it? That priest guy had no idea.”

Flos was the King of Destruction, but he was surprisingly approachable. And he liked to talk. He shrugged as he rode, back straight, as if he’d been born in the saddle. Teres had learned to ride, if only to keep up, but she wasn’t nearly as good as Flos or Orthenon. Even though she’d gained the [Rider] class and several Skills.

“The court of the Quarass was in hiding, Teres. They feared I would execute them, especially if I knew what they were doing. If I had told them I desired the Quarass’ rebirth, do you think they would have trusted me? No, they would have been suspicious. Moreover, I think that the rebirth of the Quarass is a function of the will of the people as much as it is a hidden requirement of her class. If I had forced it, perhaps the ritual would have failed.”

“Oh. So what is the Quarass? You killed her—and now she’s back? I thought she was like a [Queen].”

“She is the ruler of Germina. No more, no less. There is no one in the world like her. [Quarass] is a unique class. And the first Skill she obtains is [Memory of the Quarass].”

Teres could guess what that Skill did. She shuddered, remembering the old look in the girl’s eyes.

“Is it evil? I mean, they turned that girl into…”

Flos’ face was troubled. He hesitated and casually slapped a bug threatening to bite his horse out of the air.

“She would not have gained the class had she not wished it. But you are right, the child did not know what being Quarass meant. Still, if you are asking whether the class and Skill will take her over—it affects her, but each Quarass is different. I should know; I have met three now. Her Skill does not convey wisdom, nor, I think, is it always helpful. But that child had a spark of her own. She may prove to be a better ruler than the previous Quarass. At the very least, she and I are allies. But I will keep Maresar and Venith here until Orthenon may speak with her and establish governance to his liking. And hers.”

Teres digested that. She frowned.

“Okay. But how do the memories carry over? That was like…rebirth.”

“A form of it. It is a function of her class, which, as I said, is unique. A power that Germina somehow discovered. Or created. Secrets, Teres. This world has secrets. The power of the Quarass’ class to resurrect itself is one such, if a small one.”

That didn’t seem small to Teres. She opened her mouth, inhaled a bug at speed, and coughed. Flos slapped her on the back, laughing, until she spat out the bug and washed her mouth out twice.

“Beware of bugs. Especially as fast as we travel. My turn to ask a question. I believe I asked you to tell me more about gods on the way here, Teres. You told me much about the various religions…can you elaborate on these holy wars you said took place?”

Teres scowled as she spat some water out. She could still taste bitterness in her mouth. And a feeler. She spat that out too.

“Trey’s the one to ask.”

“But he stayed in the capital. I don’t think he enjoys riding, or my company, enough. These holy wars?”

Sighing, Teres thought for a second.

“I don’t know. Okay. There were these kingdoms who believed in Christianity. And they had the Pope.”

“He who was highest of the [Clerics].”

“Um…yes? The closest man to god. And he said—I think, something like ‘the people living in these countries don’t believe in our god. Go kill them.’ And that’s what happened.”

“And the nations who practiced Christianity…?”

“They went to war. And they killed a lot of Muslims. And they got killed.”

“Hm. It feels like you skipped over a lot of the details in your account. But I understand the gist. And these nations sent their warriors to fight and die? For a god’s will? Did he manifest to them?”

“Nope. The Pope said so, and so everyone went off.”

“On his word alone. Unbelievable.”

Flos frowned to himself. Teres couldn’t help but interject her opinion.

“That’s faith for you. It makes people crazy. Anyways, Trey’s the one you want to talk to. He actually paid attention during the sermons in church.”

“I will ask him about it.”

Flos nodded slowly. He glanced down at Teres.

“Still, faith is a powerful thing. I’ve thought on it, Teresa Atwood. And I believe it is one of the fundamental differences that separates my world from yours.”

“Probably. But I mean, didn’t those people love their Quarass? That entire ritual looked a lot like something religious, you know.”

“Mm. Perhaps it did. But I think there were differences.”

“Which are?”

The King took a few moments to think. He opened his mouth, frowned, and spat out a bug. Teres was vaguely disappointed by that.

“The difference is this. In this world, Humans—no, people know the gods to be dead. We cannot believe in them; I have never heard of a…[Preacher] in my world, let alone religion. And so, we know there is a limit to all things. Immortals may die. Magic is finite. The gods are dead.”

That was a cynical outlook on life. Unusual, coming from Flos, who was normally impossible to depress. The King of Destruction went on as Teres shielded her face with a scarf.

“Faith has its limits in the heart, Teres. Not like your world. And so I may conquer the hearts of Germina’s folk, by nurturing their fear that the line of the Quarass will die out and by giving them hope that I will let it continue. They do not have the blind faith of your world that some…god will swoop down from the heavens to make things right. That is what they do, isn’t it?”

It sounded like Flos had trouble saying the word ‘god’. He had to frown as he pronounced it, but he’d been saying the word more often of late. And asking questions about god nonstop on their ride here, for that matter. Teres nodded, smiling at the image of gods swooping down out of the sky like birds. But wait, wasn’t that what they did? She frowned.

“Well, some myths, er, have that. Beams of light from heaven. But sometimes it’s just a voice. Or—or people say miracles happen thanks to god, like a bridge collapsing and no one getting hurt. But they never see god. It’s all invisible. The invisible hand of god.”

“Ah, invisible workings. So they flit about invisibly?”

“No, no…they’re miracles. It might not even be god, but you see, if there was a god, he’d be omniscient and omnipotent. So he could just save lives by willing it. You see…”

Teres had trouble explaining what a god was to Flos. He seemed incapable of grasping a being that was all-knowing and all-powerful. He kept asking for clarification until he finally got it. And when he did, he just shook his head with a vague look of disappointment.

“Omnipotence. Omniscience. Odd things to imagine. Your gods sound more like dreams, to me. How would such a being exist? Why would they let evil exist? Ah, wait, I know the answer to that one. Evil must exist, or how else would we outline what is good? Light needs dark to shine. Ah, but it must be aggravating to be a god!”

He laughed heartily as Teres gave him a sidelong look. That was another thing Flos did. One second he was interested in mundane things—like ice cream—the next, he was speaking of good and evil as if he understood the perspective of gods. She rolled her shoulders and shifted in her saddle, wishing she had a pillow.

“I guess that’s what some people say. But that’s only if gods exist. And that’s up for debate.”

Half a year ago, she would have laughed at any suggestion gods existed. Now, she wasn’t so sure. Flos smiled.

“If they exist. If they exist? And here I thought your world had more faith than mine.”

The question and the smile—more like a smirk—needled Teres. Sometimes, Flos behaved that way, as if their two worlds were in competition. And sometimes, Teres felt as if she had to defend Earth, as if Flos’ admiration or scorn mattered.

“Well, we can’t know for certain! There are contradictions in holy books, like dinosaurs existing when ‘apparently’ the god of Christianity made the earth in seven days. And no one can prove their god exists because they don’t do miracles, which all apparently happened in the past. So it sounds like bollocks to me. Anyways, if people knew, then it wouldn’t be faith, right? It’s the eternal question or some shite like that.”

To the young woman’s surprise, her outburst only provoked gales of laughter from Flos that made some of the soldiers riding ahead of them turn to see what was going on. He righted himself in his saddle before he fell off and gave Teres an amused glance.

“Ah, Teres! The eternal question? You clearly don’t believe in gods, but you don’t understand. Teres, you are that answer to your world’s eternal question. Because you can ask whether god exists or not in this world. I cannot. The fact that your world can even believe in gods while we know that none exist in our world…doesn’t that prove there are yet some in yours?”

It—Teres opened her mouth. Closed it. She rode on, shaken. Flos shook his head.

“Or maybe it only proves we had some. And that they now lie dead.”

He stared ahead. Teres was determined not to open that can of worms no matter what. She wondered what Trey would think when she told him what Flos had said. If they could talk without fighting. She slumped in her saddle. She and Trey hadn’t been getting along since…well, it was his fault and her fault. But she hated being away from her twin.

“Do you always talk like this? Is that why none of the others would ride with you?”

Flos snorted; he seemed to enjoy it when Teres poked at him.

“They have their duties. And I don’t always pester my vassals. For one thing, they don’t have entertaining stories like you do. Well, not true ones at any rate. I’m not always so introspective, Teres. Sometimes, yes, I think deeply about the world. Other times, I wonder what ‘soda’ tastes like. The rebirth of the Quarass was a time for deep thoughts. I fear our next errand will be a time for quick thinking and petty triviality.”

Teres glanced up the empty road. She thought she could see the land rising ahead of them.

“We’re going to Hellios, right? To conquer it? Crush it?”

“That. To bring Hellios into my kingdom, rather than waste time occupying it. Although we might have to expend more resources and time on Hellios.”

Flos sighed. He leaned on his saddle, and his horse glanced up at him. Teres scrunched her eyebrows together.

“Okay, another question. If it’s important to take over both nations, why didn’t you do Hellios while you were waiting for Germina to resurrect their Quarass?”

The King of Destruction smiled again, although he was studying the landscape ahead with a kind of weary anticipation.

“Ah. That answer is simple. The Queen of Hellios, Queen Calliope, is haughty. As are Helliosians. A proud people, whereas the folk of Germina love their Quarass. It is far easier to convince them to submit once another nation has followed suit. Besides, a month of occupation proves to them that they cannot oust me so easily. The hearts of men are not so easily won over.”

“What about the hearts of women?”

“Even harder. But it’s vital we secure Hellios as Orthenon tells me the other nations won’t let us consolidate these lands for much longer. We had a break during the winter and, I think, while the other kingdoms secured their borders in case I continued to advance. But our new neighbors won’t fall as easily as Germina or Hellios this time.”

Teres’ stomach churned.

“You mean, more armies? More war?”

“Perhaps. It need not come to that. But I wish to secure Hellios. If we do, we’ll have ample time to react to any threat coming from the north. There are a trio of nations bordering our lands at the moment to the north and east. Of them, the Republic of Belchan and the kingdom of Jecrass are closest. Even so, Belchan is eight days north of Hellios’ capital even with a marching Skill for any army. No danger—unless we’re attacked from multiple spots at once.”

Eight days of marching with Flos’ Skill? Teres tried to figure out how far that was.

“How many miles is that?”

Flos counted on his fingers and gave up.

“You’ll have to ask Orthenon when we return. I don’t know exact distances of the places I’ve visited, but I know exactly how long it takes to march an army there, or a group of [Riders]. It’s one of the reasons Orthenon and Takhatres are so invaluable; they can reach the swiftest of attacking forces where Mars or Gazi or I would struggle to react in time.”

“But you sent Takhatres across the desert. Why did you do that? His tribe could have wiped out both Germina and Hellios.”

And saved Reim from nearly falling to the coalition army. Flos nodded as if he read Teres’ mind.

“Takhatres would be invaluable here. But he’s occupying the Empire of Sands. While his tribe harasses them, they’re forced to expend forces on him, and he can hit any army trying to cross the desert. My kingdom needs that time. We can manage without Takhatres for the moment. Already, you could say Reim has expanded three times over. If I can take control of Hellios and Germina’s armies and their economies, I will have a true base of power to draw on besides my Seven.”

“I guess…”

“Fear not, Teres. My enemies at present aren’t a concern. Any single army a kingdom nearby could field is no match for mine. And as I said, we have ample time to react if Hellios is secure. I’m more interested in the future. Now, I was thinking about our chat from last night…”

Oh no. Here we go again. Teres sighed. Flos had that look in his eye.

“So, these guns from your world. I understand they shoot hundreds of ‘rounds’ per minute. Bullets which, despite being tiny, can go straight through armor. But Mars is surely immune to such weapons. Her armor is magical. I’ve seen it withstand countless weapons at point-blank range. A sledgehammer swung by an Ogre couldn’t dent it. A ballista couldn’t pierce her chest plate.”

“I understand that. But they’re guns, Flos. They’re a lot more powerful.”

“How much more? I refuse to believe your bullets have more force than a ballista in a single shot.”

“Oh yeah? What about tanks? They have…armor piercing rounds. They could put a hole in a castle. Can Mars survive that?”

“Yes.”

Flos’ calm expression made Teres grind her teeth.

“No she can’t. Don’t be stupid.”

“You haven’t seen Mars as I have, Teres.”

“And you haven’t seen a tank. Or a missile. They can blow up—look, if one hits her, she’s dead! Maybe she survives ordinary guns and not like…RPGs or sniper rifles, but she can’t beat a tank. She can’t. One of them rolls through and it’ll shred an army, Mars or not. It has machine guns, Flos. I explained them to you. An army from this world can’t beat one from mine.”

The King of Destruction gave Teres a sideways look, almost irritated himself. He breathed out slowly.

“Fine. I accept the power of your weapons. But you are still incorrect. It would be simple to triumph in a battle I planned against your world.”

He raised a finger as Teres furiously opened her mouth. Instantly, her mouth shut. She glared as Flos went on.

“In case Mars isn’t totally proof against your missiles and tanks, I would find a single high-level [Pyromancer] and order the [Mage] to disable combustion on the enemy army. What will your guns do, then? From what I understand, they must ignite, mustn’t they?”

“Well, yes, but—guns aren’t that simple. It wouldn’t—”

Teres tried to remember how exactly guns did work. It wouldn’t work if—that wasn’t fair, was it? What about bombs? Or…she stared at Flos.

“How did you come up with that?”

He sighed.

“Easily. I spent several days devising numerous strategies against your world’s weapons until I realized your lack of magic is a crippling weakness. It doesn’t interest me any longer. What else have you?”

She glared.

“We have bombers. And nukes. I told you about them too. And before you say anything, they’re flying miles up. Too high for Amerys to reach like you said yesterday. How would you stop one of those?”

“A flying vessel that can go higher than even Amerys could reach, is it? Capable of destroying cities with a single weapon? I see. Indeed, that is a challenge, indeed…”

Flos murmured to himself, stroking his beard. Teres resisted the urge to roll her eyes. Every time she told him about the military might of Earth, or some device his world hadn’t dreamed of yet, Flos would grow excited.

“You know this is stupid, right? If our world invaded yours—and I don’t even know if that’s possible—you’d be fighting an entire world.”

“So? I have one right here. And mine is filled with species yours has never seen, Teres. We have magic. You have technology. It would be a fair battle in some ways.”

“Please.”

“No, I’m serious. If I had to prepare against Earth, if, say, a portal had opened between our world and yours and both sides were sending armies through, I know how I’d begin to compete with your advanced weaponry.”

Teres felt a flutter of uncertainty in her chest. He’d been thinking of it?

“Really? How?”

Flos casually stretched one arm, then the next.

“The first thing I would do is collect some guns and armor to be copied and retreat. Prisoners too; your world’s [Engineers] and soldiers. After all, traitors and turncoats exist in every world. And even if producing these weapons is beyond us, we can always capture more. But I would make every effort to manufacture some of the materials of your world. And—yes, I think preparations can be made. Kevlar is a cloth, you said? An army of Stitch-People made of kevlar would do well against your powerful guns, wouldn’t you say?”

“Stitch-People? But—you can’t do that. Can you?”

Teres tried to imagine the few String People she’d met being made out of kevlar. It boggled the mind. But that was how they worked, right? They sewed fabric for limbs. Flos looked amused at her reaction.

“Of course they could. Any cloth would do. String People are like Dullahans in that they craft themselves. But if I had to choose between the two, I would wish for an army of the Stitch-folk every time. Tell me, how would an army of Humans with guns face a similar army, equipped with guns but made of this wonderful material you and Trey keep telling me exists, but can’t describe in any detail?”

Teres bit her lip. Flos eyed her and went on.

“Now, to counter your aircraft…you said they’re electrical? Amerys might be able to disable them no matter how high they fly so long as she knows they’re there. But just in case…how high did you say they could fly, again? And how fast?”

“Mach 9.”

“And that means…? Come now, Teres. This is all hypothetical. And besides, I wouldn’t conquer your world right away if we discovered a portal leading between our worlds.”

“Oh, thanks.”

“I’d request their surrender first.”



——



Some days, Teres didn’t know if Flos was merely insanely overconfident or if he was actually deviously intelligent. Certainly, she’d given up trying to convince him that Earth was impossibly advanced for his world to take on. After hearing some of Flos’ theories about how to counter everything from a nuclear bomb to bioweapons, she was half-believing he’d have a shot. The thought wasn’t pleasant, but Teres was also sure of something else.

Flos was a good ruler. A good man, for what that was worth. Yes, he believed slavery was fair, but that was a fault she was trying to work on. And he might be the King of Destruction, but she had never seen him behave in a way that was less than…noble. It was strange for Teres to admire someone; she was used to crushes like she had on Orthenon, but Flos inspired. However, what she sometimes forgot was that he didn’t always inspire loyalty, like the devotion of his subjects. Sometimes what he inspired was hate.

Case in point. The next day, after a long night of riding, sleeping after being pestered by Flos to describe various military scenarios and then what Oreos were like, Teres woke up after four hours of sleepy riding to find they’d passed into Hellios and were nearing its capital. It was…nothing like Ger had been.

If the capital of Germina had been quiet, discontent, simmering out of sight, Hellios’ capital city was a full-blown boil with a grease fire on top. Flos’ army was camped outside of its gates, and Teres could see arrows as well as scorch marks on the earth. Fresh ones too; a new volley was launched and landed well clear of Flos’ army camped well outside of the walls of the city.

Hellios had fallen, and the city had been taken, but Flos’ army had withdrawn from occupying it after Orthenon had decided it wasn’t worth the casualties it would take to hold it. Part of that reasoning probably had to do with the person he’d stationed in charge of the army.

“My king! I’ve longed to see you!”

The instant Flos approached the camp, a tall, bodacious woman dressed in very form-fitting armor ran out to greet him. She was tall, impossibly fair of skin, and had the kind of beauty that inspired the words bodacious, exquisite, delectable, and, uh, beautiful.

Mars the Illusionist stopped in front of Flos’ horse, beaming up at him. Teres glanced sideways at her as some [Hostlers] raced forwards to take the horses of the other soldiers. She dismounted as Flos, laughing, leapt from the saddle.

“Mars! How goes it, my [Vanguard]? I see that Hellios still has some fire!”

The woman pursed her lips, looking vexed but only for a second. Luscious lips. That was another phrase. She needed no makeup, and her skin was perfect despite the heat. Teres could see some of the male soldiers—and two of the female ones—giving Mars a long look. She tried not to stare as well. Flos appeared impervious to Mars’ charms, however. The [Vanguard], one of Flos’ infamous Seven, led them to the center of the camp.

“The defenders shoot arrows at us any time we get within range, milord. But they’re smart enough not to sally out or sneak out—at least, after the last eight times they tried. We have them cornered, and they know it. They don’t dare attack so long as I’m here.”

She reclined on a chair, her body languid, her molded breastplate gleaming in the sun. Teres stared at her chest. She met Mars’ eyes as the [Vanguard] winked at her.

“Hello, Teres. Like the spell? It’s a new look.”

“It’s great. Do all of your illusions have huge breasts?”

“They attract attention. And arrows, strangely enough. I can’t count how many [Mages] have seared me straight across the chest rather than aim for my head, for all it looks unguarded…”

Mars sighed, and her lips curved up in a smile that would win any heart. But it was all an illusion. Teres knew that, although she had to fight to remember that when a stray gust of wind blew Mars’ hair or she wiped a bit of dust from her gleaming, gilded armor.

But that was Mars the Illusionist for you. She hid her true form with spells. But illusion or not, she was the most powerful of Flos’ servants, at least in level. With her present, Hellios’ forces cooped up in the walls of their city wouldn’t dare sally forth. Teres had seen Mars fight in a battle only once. When she had, she’d been unstoppable. Invincible.

Still, Mars was hardly a leader like Venith or Maresar, and the camp showed it. She’d left the organization to a [Strategist] under her command, and apparently she’d spent her time in camp sparring, taunting Hellios’ defenders, or drinking and gambling.

“A true soldier to the last. But I need a way into that city, Mars. Would you care to walk with me?”

“After a month spent staring at the walls and listening to their weak insults? Walking with my sovereign? You don’t have to tempt me any further.”

Mars leapt up. She grabbed Flos’ arm, and laughing, he followed her. The two walked through the camp as men and women raced forwards, but Flos walked through them with a single sentence.

“I intend to take Hellios myself.”

And that was it. The [Strategist], one of Venith’s men, fell back with the others. They didn’t ask how Flos intended to do it or if he was crazy. The King of Destruction wanted to take Hellios with just Mars and Teres. So they watched, and the [Soldiers] dashed out of their tents and cheered Flos’ name.

King of Destruction! Teres could feel the reverberation in the air as they approached Hellios’ capital. Blalevault was a city set into the side of the mountain, hence the reason why the defenders couldn’t go around Mars’ army in the cover of night. But it was well-fortified, and the walls were imposing. Flos stopped at the point where the arrows littered the ground. Behind him, his army spread out, chanting his name.

“Flos!”

The roar came from thousands of voices. Hellios seemed to shake with the sound. The King of Destruction raised a hand, and his army roared. Teres, standing next to him, shook with the sound, but neither Flos nor Mars moved. She was smiling up at him, and he was smiling at her. Like the oldest of friends or lovers. That was how Flos looked at all of his Seven. It was a look to make Teres jealous, for only her bond with Trey was more intimate.

Hellios had spotted the King of Destruction. They’d heard him long ago. Teres could hear someone blowing a horn and saw people racing across the walls, filling it. Archers, [Knights], she saw several draw their bows back.

“Incoming. Stand behind me, Teres.”

Mars warned the girl. She raised her shield as the first arrows flew. They were over three hundred meters away from the walls by Teres’ metric reckoning, but a few arrows still flew all that distance. Then one shot from a bow aimed straight at Flos. It fell through the air, aimed at his face—

The arrow snapped on Mars’ shield as she lifted it. The [Vanguard] poised like some kind of action hero, lifting her shield over Flos’ head. The King of Destruction held still as Hellios loosed more arrows, but whoever had shot that arrow must have used a Skill, for none came closer.

“Hellios! I have come to speak with your Queen! Open your gates and let us enter in peace!”

Flos bellowed the words at the walls. His voice was so loud! Teres winced. She saw the bows stop loosing arrows. For a second, there was silence, then she heard a distant shout.

“Sands take you, King of Destruction!”

Someone on the walls bellowed the words back. There was a shout and more sound as the defenders screamed and jeered. The sound was a cacophony with few words Teres could hear, but what she could make out was all foul.

Flos’ army shouted back, but they fell silent as Flos raised a hand. Mars glared at Hellios.

“The barking of a defeated army, Your Majesty. They can’t hold out for even a day, and they know it. And Orthenon has the rest of the country locked down. Do you want me to send the army forth? We can take those walls.”

“No. I won’t waste lives. Ours or theirs. This is simple enough, anyways. Hellios might not be Germina in terms of loving their Quarass, but they are still loyal.”

Flos walked forwards, heedless of the second volley of arrows that fell short and the fireball that exploded after only a hundred meters in the air. He raised a hand and pointed at the walls—the jeering redoubled in volume as the people on Hellios’ walls dared the King of Destruction to come closer. But Flos only looked at one person.

“Mars! Enter the throne room. If anyone threatens my subjects or myself, put Queen Calliope to death and slay everyone in the castle! My army, if I or Teres should fall, burn Blalevault to the ground and erase Hellios from every map in the world.”

The people on Hellios’ walls suddenly went quiet. Behind Flos, his army roared his name. Teres turned to stare at Flos. He wasn’t smiling.

Mars was. At his command, she strolled forwards, her bright red hair, the color of today—last time it had been purple—streaming behind her in the wind. Her face was bare, her armor beautiful. But it fooled no one.

Here came Mars the Illusionist. Teres saw the defenders pull back as one. Then they began firing and loosing spells as she came within range.

Hundreds of arrows struck Mars in the face, across her armor, and, yes, across her breastplate. A [Fireball] exploded, engulfing her in flames. Someone threw a bolt of lightning. Both standard spells. War spells that could kill a group of [Soldiers] in a single blast. But when the smoke cleared, Mars was walking forwards. Her pure skin wasn’t scratched. Her armor gleamed.

An illusion. But the Mars underneath was just as unharmed, Teres knew. The knowledge made Hellios’ defenders quail, then redouble their assault. Teres watched as they shot quivers full of arrows at her, and then, when she was within forty feet of the walls, they just gave up.

“Open the gates. Or Mars will cut every soldier on the walls down.”

Flos bellowed at Blalevault’s walls. They hesitated, but this time, Teres could sense the fear on the distant figures. The gates opened, and Mars strolled through.

“Our turn.”

Flos calmly walked forwards. Teres stared at him and then walked after him, cringing as the walls grew closer.

“Wait! But should we let Mars—”

“If they were going to shoot me, they would do it regardless. No, they’ll refrain, tempting a target as I might be. And those who think to kill me will be held back by those who fear for their lives or their families.”

“Are you sure?”

Flos looked back over his shoulder.

“No. So you need not accompany me, Teres. But I will protect you if someone tries.”

For a second, Teres debated staying as Flos walked onwards. But perhaps it was his nature as [King] or maybe it was her. She followed.

Mars was through the gates by the time they arrived and heading up the street. Blalevault was organized such that the street leading through the central gates led straight up towards the keep built into the back of the mountain. Teres saw that while the defenders had given up, some were still trying to hold her back from the palace.

They couldn’t stop her. Teres saw a man fling himself at Mars. He was as tall as her illusion and broader still, but when he tried to stop her with a bear hug, she just kept walking. His legs began sliding, and he scrabbled for purchase. He couldn’t so much as break her stride and ended up being dragged ten feet before she kicked him off her.

“After Mars.”

Flos walked through the gates. Teres stared up at the faces on the walls. Hundreds of eyes stared hatred and fear at Flos. If she had time, she would have stared at Hellios’ impressive walls, built up from thick-cut blocks of stone, or the architecture of the city, which was all stone, intricate work compared to Germina’s simple mud huts, but terribly lacking in color despite the colorful roofs. If she had time, she would have seen the people, judged the condition of Hellios’ defenders after a month of defeat. But Flos was walking so fast that Teres could only see a blur of faces.

They were all there. Helliosians, the people of Blalevault. Staring at Flos, some clearly trying to shout insults at him. But fear and his presence held their tongues. Flos walked up the street, glancing to his left and right, his face impassive. What he felt, Teres couldn’t guess at. He was moving too fast. He’d spent two days in Germina, blending in with the people under his illusion spell, listening to them. But here he was nearly at the castle when someone threw a rock at him.

“Flos!”

The King was already turning. His sword was in its sheath, but it slashed the rock into fragments before the word had left Teres’ mouth. The crowd gasped and drew back in horror. The King of Destruction turned and pointed at the culprit. She froze, tiny hand lifting a second rock.

A child. A girl, who was instantly shielded by her mother. The people of Blalevault stared at the girl in horror and then at Flos, remembering his vow. The King of Destruction studied the girl for a second and then shook his head.

“Children don’t count.”

The breath that the crowd let out was like a gust of wind. Flos paused as Teres stopped by his side. He looked at the child holding the rock.

“I hate you! Die, King of Destruction!”

She struggled in her mother’s grip. Children were supposed to be cute, but there was nothing cute in the way this girl’s face contorted. Her mother held onto her.

“Don’t, spare her, Your Majesty, please!”

She begged as Flos drew closer. The people around the woman drew back. Teres saw a few men clench their fists and thought that if Flos hurt the girl, they would attack him, order or not. But that wasn’t what Flos did. He bent and looked down at the girl.

“Why do you hate me, child?”

The girl went still for a second in her mother’s arms. She looked up.

“You killed my da.”

Then she threw herself at Flos. Her mother had to drag her back. Flos looked at her, then around at the citizens of Hellios. They stared at him, and the same hatred in the girl’s eyes was in theirs.

Then Teres understood. Hellios was different from Germina in one way. The people of Germina had hated Flos for killing the Quarass. For bringing war to the country. For all these things, they hated Flos, but Hellios’ hatred ran deeper. It was darker. And Flos knew it.

“What is your name, girl?”

He looked down at the struggling girl. She shouted defiantly in his face.

“Delani of Hellios! You’ll die! Queen Calliope and Prince Siyal will cut off your head!”

She screamed, red in the face as she tried to kick at Flos. Teres saw his shoulders slump for a second. Then he knelt.

“Quiet.”

And the girl was. She held still, flushed with rage as Flos looked at her. He spoke quietly to her, to the watchers.

“I did not make war first, Delani of Hellios. I understand that does nothing for your heart. But do not waste your life here. Grow. And wait. And find me when you are older if you still bear a grudge. I will be waiting.”

Then he stood up and kept walking. There was only silence after that. Delani’s mother dragged her away, and no one else attacked Flos. Teres followed him. It was a long road up to the keep.

“They loathe me in Hellios twice-over, Teres. There are no memories of my reign over them that are pleasant. I have taken this city twice now. Both times, I was hated. I fear Hellios will be harder to rule than Germina by far. But I will not have it stab at my back a third time.”

Flos spoke quietly as he entered the open doors to the castle. The wooden gates looked…cracked, as if Mars had rammed her way through. Teres stared at three bodies in the entryway. They looked unconscious, rather than dead.

The keep was stone. Impressively tall, but short. Apparently, it was expanded with each generation. Flos slowed his pace; Teres could hear a commotion coming ahead of them, from the throne room. He stared at the servants cowering in the stone entryway and gestured around it to Teres.

“The first time I walked these halls was as a boy. I was…fourteen? Fifteen? Maybe fourteen. King Treland had made an incursion into Reim, hoping to take our lands after my mother’s passing. After repulsing him, I saw how he treated his own people and resolved to end his threat once and for all.”

“What happened? I mean, how did you defeat him?”

Teres expected that was the start of Flos’ famous exploits, but he shook his head.

“I couldn’t defeat him in outright battle. So I used trickery, of course. His armies were stronger. He was a much higher-level [King] than I at the time. So I divided my forces. Gazi—she was with me, even back then—helped me lead a small force north, around his troops. Treland hadn’t expected that, and we took the walls by surprise. He’d left only a token force behind.”

“Oh. And then?”

Flos’ face was shadowed. He stared ahead. The doors to the throne room were thrown open. Two [Knights] lay on the ground. One’s faceplate had been bashed in. The other was clutching at his groin.

“I found him on the battlefield and challenged him to personal combat. He accepted, so I killed him there. Calliope was a young woman, then. She held a grudge because I could have ‘spared’ him. It was the middle of battle and his army would have rallied around him if I had not executed him, rather than accept his surrender. Ah, how long ago was that? It feels…like only a moment has passed since then. A moment and a century.”

Then he entered the throne room. Teres heard a blather of voices before he entered, shouts, and then dead silence. She walked forwards and saw a tableau.

Here stood the King of Destruction. His sword was sheathed at his side, and he wore plain clothing—well, plain for a monarch, though she knew he had armor on underneath. And there was the court of Queen Calliope.

They had…nobles, courtiers, a Master of Ceremonies, [Knights], [Ladies] who might have been in waiting, pages, servants, even a steward of their own. But they were the backdrop. The true actors to the scene stood on the dais surrounding the throne at the back of the room.

Three of them. One was Mars. Her shield was on one arm, and her sword drawn. She held it lazily, pointed at a woman with a crown sitting still in the chair. Queen Calliope. Next to her, his sword drawn and aimed at Mars, was Prince Siyal.

Teres had seen him once. He’d been a [Messenger] who’d brought news of war. She remembered an angry young man and found her memory hadn’t lied. Prince Siyal’s face was flushed, and the expensive sword in his hands was held in a double-grip. Mars didn’t appear bothered, though the sword was nearly poking her in the cheek. She was only a few steps away from Queen Calliope, who stared past her at the King of Destruction with burning eyes.

Queen Calliope. She was…well, she looked like a [Queen]. In that she had an expensive dress on. And she had a crown, although that was silver rather than gold. But other than that? She didn’t look like Flos, who had the bearing of a hero of stories. Calliope just looked like a middle-aged woman, hair going to grey but artfully concealed by some kind of hair dye that hadn’t been applied recently enough to cover a few hairs. She looked normal.

Perhaps that was most telling of all. Because when Flos walked forwards, the room shuddered. The King of Destruction slowly walked towards the throne. Mars stepped back, sheathing her sword as Flos came to a stop, still far away from the throne. He spoke quietly, but with that same echo Teres had heard yesterday.

“Twice now, Hellios has made war on Reim. Once, Treland invaded and I took his head. The second time? You have cause for fury, Calliope, but you acted poorly as ruler of your nation.”

“Flos of Reim. You will answer for your crimes against Hellios.”

Queen Calliope’s voice shook, but whether with rage or fear it was hard to say. Her eyes were locked on Flos and her hands were white on the armrests of her throne. Prince Siyal hadn’t lowered his sword, only pointed it at Flos.

“Threaten my mother, King of Destruction, and I will—”

Flos raised a finger. Prince Siyal’s mouth snapped shut. Teres could see him trying to open it furiously, but both monarchs never looked away from each other. Flos shook his head.

“Tell me, Calliope. Was vengeance worth the cost?”

“You murdered my husband after he surrendered.”

“He attacked Reim. I challenged him to a duel. He lost. I did not despoil Hellios, though it was within my power. Now, you send your armies against me. Twice, Calliope. Should I repay you for the lives of my people you slaughtered as they fled towards me?”

Queen Calliope’s face didn’t move, though the rest of the court visibly drew back.

“Do it. And the world will see you for the monster you are.”

For a second, Teres saw Flos’ eyes narrow. He glanced around the room, and she thought he was measuring up every life there. Weighing them. Standing next to the throne, Mars looked around, her gaze cold, her smile taunting. But then the King of Destruction shook his head.

“I do not come here for your head, Calliope of Hellios. I do come for your kingdom. I would have Hellios join Reim, have your people work with mine as equals and your armies and mine march to the ends of the earth together.”

The intake of breath was sharp. Calliope glared at Flos.

“Never. We would rather die than join with you. That is Hellios’ answer, Flos of Reim. And Germina would answer the same in a heartbeat, if you have not asked them already.”

Again, Teres sensed that the room wasn’t quite on Calliope’s side. Even her son, Siyal, gave his mother a glance before glaring at Flos. The King of Destruction spread his hands.

“Germina has agreed. The Quarass of Germina was dead, but now she has risen. And the new Quarass has pledged to join her kingdom with my own.”

The Quarass lives. The murmur that went through the court was short-lived. Calliope glared around, then compressed her lips.

“My answer stands. What will you, then, King of Destruction? Or—will you accept this? Withdraw your forces from Hellios. When the last of your soldiers is gone, I will accept an alliance with your kingdom.”

Teres glared at Calliope as more murmurs sprang up. She saw Mars roll her eyes and mime to Flos a punching motion. The King ignored her. But he did stare at Calliope with something like disgust.

“I trust you less than the Quarass of Germina. I will not settle for an alliance, even sealed by blood. I require your abdication, Calliope. You will not be harmed on my word as a King. But Hellios will be part of Reim. Until such time as it is earned back.”

“What?”

The word burst from Siyal’s mouth at last. He strode down the dais—a man and a woman threw themselves at him, stopping him from approaching Flos. Siyal struggled and then shouted at the King, face flushed.

“You dare to claim our throne? By what right? King of Destruction or not—”

He fell silent as Flos looked at him directly once. Siyal paled as Flos glared.

“Yes. I dare, Prince Siyal. By what right? By right of conquest. Or did you think this was a negotiation? Do you think you held off Mars with that sword? If I ordered it, she would clear this room of life in a minute.”

“Thirty seconds.”

Flos ignored that too. He pointed at Siyal, who’d gone pale.

“Did you think my words were an idle boast? I could erase Blalevault as easily as Hellios. I could empty this city and wash your stone buildings with blood. I should. By rights, I should, to make up for Hellios’ slaughter of my people. For war. I do not because I remember that the people of a country do not answer for the monarchs’ crime. So I offer your mother—and you—this one opportunity. Take it, or I will take your lives.”

Siyal backed up a step. Then he half-looked at his mother. She stared at him, and Teres wondered what kind of a mother she had been. She got her answer as Calliope dipped her head slightly. Siyal froze, then turned. And he raised his sword.

“Flos of Reim. I challenge you to a duel. For Hellios! To the death!”

The throne room was silent. Teres saw one of the people around Siyal, the man, trying to pull him back. The woman was sobbing, pleading with him. Flos stared at Siyal and then looked at Calliope. This time, Teres felt his fury like a hot brand, burning her chest.

“He is your son. Low, even for you, Calliope. Or did you think it would work? If so, you understand nothing of why your husband fell.”

“Your enemy is me, Flos of Reim! I challenge you—”

Siyal paused as Flos looked at him again. The King of Destruction shook his head.

“I refuse your challenge.”

“Then your honor is forfeit! Leave go of me—”

Siyal struggled forwards, but stopped as Mars blocked his way. There was no smile on her face this time as she placed her blade in front of his chest. Flos looked at Siyal.

“Do not throw away your life, Prince Siyal. If you raise your blade against me, Mars will answer you. And she is not merciful in battle.”

The young man hesitated, raising his blade. Teres prayed he wouldn’t try it. Siyal glanced at his mother again, but she gave him no cue this time.

“I—better to die defending my home than to see it destroyed! You would tear Hellios apart and destroy our legacy!”

The [Prince] hurled the words at Flos, as if trying to convince himself. Flos sighed. But he faced Siyal more readily than Calliope.

“No. Recall what I said to your mother. I take Hellios, but only because I find its ruler unworthy of it.”

Now there was another conversation happening. A different tone than the raw contempt between Calliope and Flos. Siyal wavered, his sword loose in his grip. Teres thought she could have disarmed him with a single blow. If Orthenon had seen Siyal’s grip, he would have smacked the [Prince] across the head.

“Then—Hellios is to be mine? If my mother abdicates?”

Mars rolled her eyes. Flos was more patient and just shook his head again.

“Are you worthy of it? No. But you might be, in time. You are young, foolish. But I have seen worse become the best of men. Your mother will not rule Hellios, but you might. Here is what I offer. Serve me, Siyal of Hellios. Win battles in my name. Grow, [Prince], into a man who could lead your country. And I will restore Hellios to you. Not just your lands of now, but the lands Hellios held in days of yore.”

“What?”

The court was shaking. From fear, something like incredulity was blossoming. Hope, worming its way out of despair. Siyal shook his head.

“You don’t own those lands! And Hellios was mighty! In our founding—how do you offer kingdoms so easily?”

The King of Destruction spread his hands. He turned to face the room, slowly looking at the faces around him.

“How now? Boy, I am Flos. One day, I will rule all of Chandrar and the lands beyond it. Why should I not reward my loyal vassals? But a kingdom must be won by valor and service. So that is my offer to you, as a [King] to a [Prince]. Will you accept it?”

The [Prince] wavered. He stared at Flos white-faced. And Teres saw his sword-tip lower. Or maybe his arms were just tired? But the voice came from the throne, harsh and unrelenting.

“Siyal will never serve you, Flos of Reim. And I will never leave this throne.”

Flos looked up. Calliope was staring at him. She stood, then. It was a grand gesture as she pointed down at Flos. But she still seemed smaller.

“If you wish to take Hellios, it will not be with false promises. Do as you did in decades past, Flos of Reim. Or begone from my sight.”

She glared at Flos. And he bowed his head. Teres saw him close his eyes. Then open them a moment later. Flos sighed. Then he shrugged.

“So be it.”

He began walking towards Calliope. Flos strode up the throne room, casually, as if he were going for a stroll. But he drew his sword. And his eyes were locked on Calliope’s head.

Teres felt a surge of cold panic run through her. He wasn’t going to—now? Here? Just like that?

The suddenness had caught everyone else off-guard as well. For a moment, Teres saw them make the same incredulous assessment. Then the terrifying realization that Flos was serious.

“The Queen—”

Several warriors lunged forwards. But they stopped when Mars turned to face them. Siyal was on the floor, choking, clutching at his throat where she’d struck him. Flos kept walking. Calliope backed up, sat down on her throne. She stared at Flos. He came up the dais steps, two at a time. He raised his sword as the noise reached a furor behind him, and Teres ducked behind Mars, her sword drawn too. And he—

“Enough! I yield. I abdicate. I abdicate.”

The words burst from Calliope’s lips. She stared up at Flos. He paused, sword in hand. Slowly, he sheathed it. Then he nodded.

“Do it, then.”

With all eyes on her, with trembling hands, Calliope lifted the silver crown from her head. Flos took it. Then without looking, he hurled it across the room. Someone whimpered. Calliope stared at Flos. He nodded.

“Good. Then I accept your crown, Calliope. Let it be known that you have abdicated and that I take Hellios as my own. Prince Siyal will not become [King]. But I pledge upon my own crown that should he prove his worth, I will grant him Hellios.”

He turned and walked down the steps of the dais. Siyal scrambled up onto all fours. He coughed and then shouted with a strangled voice.

“Do you think I’ll serve you just like that? King of Destruction?”

Flos didn’t bother to slow as he walked past Siyal.

“No. But if you are a true [King], you will come for your kingdom.”

To that, there was nothing Siyal said. He lowered his head as Flos strode past Mars and Teres. Silently, the two women followed him. Flos was nearing the doors to the throne room when Calliope shouted at his back.

She was on her feet now. Tears streaked the makeup on her face. No longer a [Queen], just a woman. But she still hated him, Teres could see.

“Are you pleased with yourself, Flos of Reim? Or must you take everything from me on the tip of a sword? My husband and my home, and now my son?”

Flos turned once at the doors. He put his hand on them as Mars stood at his side. A King and his vassal. He looked old, then. Old and disappointed. He stared back at Calliope. And it was disappointment, more than his contempt, more than his fury, that made the woman quail.

“Would that you had never invaded, Calliope. Would that Treland had never taken arms against me. Had that happened, I might never have been known as the King of Destruction and we might have lived in peace as neighbors. But, I think, we would never have been friends.”

Then he turned and was gone.



——



They left Blalevault in silence. No one stopped them. If anything, the people were relieved. News of what had passed in the throne room was already spreading. And the people were…wary.

They did not hate Flos one bit less. But he had offered them something. Like Germina, it was a deal. A chance, a way out besides death. They could rise up, or they could bide their time. Wait and take the King of Destruction’s offer.

Teres thought she knew what they’d choose. But Flos didn’t seem happy, for all he’d won a bloodless victory. He gave curt orders in the camp. Watch the city; he didn’t trust Calliope, for all she was no longer [Queen]. Then he retired to Mars’ tent.

Teres found him inside, drinking a cup of wine with the [Vanguard]. Mars was talking softly, but she wasn’t as provocative as before. She’d switched guises; from a redheaded beauty to a younger woman, still flawless, but more like a soldier, with short-cropped green hair.

“Teres. Come in. We were talking about the past.”

Flos looked up. He took a gulp of his wine as Mars sat back and motioned for Teres to join her. There was a cup of wine, and Teres accepted it, drinking a bit and grimacing. Mars drank the poorest of wines, but Flos didn’t seem to care.

“I don’t know if Siyal will accept my offer. Either way, it will be a long time before I trust Blalevault to a small guard. Orthenon will have to work hard to keep the city from erupting in plots. Then again—Hellios was manageable in my first campaign once I let them fight their enemies. Which they have many of, thankfully.”

“Do you think that Queen will give you trouble, Flos?”

Mars spoke softly, using Flos’ name for the first time Teres could remember. Flos shook his head, staring into his goblet.

“Calliope? She’s not brave or clever enough for true dissent. And she’s lost her class. Her Skills too, some of them. She’ll keep some Skills, gain a new class. But she cannot take back her abdication. Nor will her people forget. Siyal is the one who will decide their fates, if anyone from her line does.”

Mars nodded. She offered Flos a refill from a wineskin, and he took it and drank again. Teres gulped. She looked from Mars to Flos.

“Were you—were you actually going to cut off her head if she didn’t say anything?”

She didn’t know if she wanted the answer. But to her surprise, that made Flos laugh. He looked up, grinning slightly.

“Kill her? No. Calliope must have thought so. But I had no intention of killing her in that moment. I was going to slice that damn throne in half. Take her crown, break it. Maybe spank her like a child.”

“What? But that’s so…”

Teres almost said childish. But Flos was smiling, and Mars was giving her a thumbs up.

“Why shouldn’t I? And it would work better than you think. A [Queen] needs dignity, Teres. More than a [King], sometimes. And Calliope is prideful. I’m not in the habit of killing more than I have to, despite what the rumors about me say. And I don’t kill monarchs. Usually.”

Teres paused. That begged the question.

“How many rulers have you killed?”

Flos looked at Mars. She held up a number on her fingers, balancing the cup between her thighs. Flos shook his head and counted on his fingers.

“Er…sixteen? No—twenty-three if you count…often in battle, we’re drawn to each other, you see. And when I was first starting out, other rulers thought they could best me in battle with their [Champions]. That stopped when Mars joined me, but I suppose I came to them after that.”

“Twenty-three?”

“It happens. I don’t think of it as a good thing. And I don’t plan on killing any rulers out of turn, Teres. Calliope was a fool. But she had cause to hate me. Hellios does.”

“But you didn’t start the war. They did. And you spared them. They wouldn’t have done the same if they were in your shoes!”

Flos shook his head slightly. He looked tired now. Tired, when he had been full of life in Germina. He looked as old as he was, that was it.

“What did that ever matter? They have cause. That child has cause. And I will not take their hatred away. I will bear it. That is what a [King] does. For Reim, I will take the hatred of my enemies. For my kingdom, I will be a monster. But Teres—sometimes it is hard. I am glad you were here to see a day when I was not forced to be that monster.”

He looked up. Teres saw him smile again. So she sat on a rug in Mars’ tent. And she said the first thing that came to mind.

“This is awful wine. You know, I heard there were magical wines in this world, which we don’t have. But this is terrible.”

“Hey, we’re in a camp outside of a city famous for exporting stone. What do you want?”

Mars protested. Flos laughed.

“This is terrible stuff. But I’ll drink it and gladly. Still, when we get the chance, remind me to show you some magical wines, Teres. They are quite lovely, although you can sometimes taste the magic in them. [Mages] love the stuff, but I prefer…”

He began telling Teres a story, and Mars chipped in, grinning. Teres sat and listened to the King of Destruction as he forgot his gloom and became lively again. And she thought that was why she was here. She and Trey could do what all of Flos’ vassals and armies and Skills could not. So she kept him company for a while as Hellios fell to the King of Destruction and the Quarass sat on her throne and looked to the future.

This was Chandrar. Believe it or not, this wasn’t that out of the ordinary as days went.



——



As Teres and Flos drank in Mars’ tent outside the capital of Hellios, two nations away, a young boy perched in the window of the tallest tower in Reim. Not in the window of the tower, of course, but on a stool just on the edge. Trey Atwood wasn’t suicidal. He stared across the nation of Reim, north and east, as if he could see his sister there. Of course he couldn’t, and any mental link with his twin sister was purely in his head. But he liked to imagine he knew she was well.

“There you are.”

A quiet voice spoke behind Trey. He yelped, nearly fell out of his stool, and windmilled desperately, although he was far from the window’s ledge. He fell onto the ground and looked up.

Four eyes returned his gaze. The fifth, main eye was shut. But Gazi’s sharp-toothed smile more than made up for its lack. The half-Gazer knelt. She was wearing her brown scale armor, and on her back was tied the claymore she never let leave her side. Trey backed up on the ground, babbling.

“Oh please, not more training. I’m tired, I don’t want to be hit with sticks or cast spells while blindfolded, and if you make me dodge your sword again, I swear I’ll jump and die and—”

“Shush.”

Gazi raised a curiously segmented finger to her lips. Trey went quiet. The Gazer put a foot on her chair and stared out the window. He saw one of her four eyes twist downwards. Another stared at him, and the other two rolled around, exposing the whites of her eye. Checking the staircase behind her and the floors below.

Gazi, or Gazi the Omniscient, one of the King of Destruction’s Seven, waited for Trey to get up. She glanced out the tower and shook her head.

“If you jumped, you might not die.”

“What?”

She grinned at him, an unsettling smile that had too many teeth and sadistic malice. Trey knew it was a fake smile Gazi used, but it still intimidated him.

“If you lived, which you could, you’d break both legs but not die. With healing potions, you’d be on your feet in a month. Sooner if my lord used better quality potions on you. Which he would. But you would wish you’d be dead.”

Trey shuddered. He edged away from the window. Gazi looked at him.

“You don’t like heights. Why did you come up here?”

“To escape you. I thought you were going to make me train.”

“It’s for your own good. If you aren’t accompanying my lord, you should be working to improve yourself. And if you fear heights, you should be cured of that.”

“No thanks. Please? Just let me look out. I’m waiting for Teres to get back. They’re done with Hellios now, right?”

Gazi tilted her head.

“Yes. Orthenon received a [Message] not an hour ago. He is preparing to ride to Germina and Hellios to arrange a system of control. We must have their resources, not to mention their warriors.”

“Flos got both nations to cooperate? Just like that?”

“He is the King of Destruction. But no, it will not be that simple. There will be unrest, but that is a job for the King’s [Steward]. And for me.”

Gazi indicated the sword on her back. The famous Named Adventurer and [Scout] was known for her ability to catch spies and plotters. Trey wondered if she would be fine with her wounded eye. Someone had damaged it before she returned to Reim. But Gazi seemed confident.

“If you say so. I just want to see Teres.”

And Flos. But Trey didn’t say that out loud. He both admired and hated the King of Destruction at times. Admired for what Flos was and hated because he allowed slaves. Because he was still someone who would kill thousands to rule the world. Strangely, that was why Gazi seemed to have taken Trey under her wing. It was a mixed blessing, because of all of Flos’ Seven, Gazi was the one who scared Trey the most. Orthenon didn’t count.

“Well, we will all be back in time for his return. Orthenon moves faster, and I will wait for his arrival. But in the meantime—”

“No training, please?”

Trey begged. Gazi gave him a sinister curve of the lips.

“Not yet. I was going to say there’s someone on the road.”

“Is it Flos? Teres?”

Trey heard a sigh as he scrambled to the window. He stared out across the roads leading to Reim, the capital city of Flos’ small kingdom.

“What did I just say? No. It’s someone you know, though. See if you can make them out. Use the spell.”

“The spell? But—”

A foot kicked Trey in the back. He screamed a bit and grabbed the window.

“Okay, okay! Don’t do that again!”

“Cast the spell. You’re capable of it. And you don’t need the staff. Do it with your hands. Concentrate…”

It was hard to do that with a steep drop below and Gazi’s impending foot threatening him from behind. But Trey had been taught by Gazi, and she was surprisingly good, if ruthless, at teaching magic. He concentrated, pulling a strand of magic from a reservoir in his body he hadn’t known existed. He wove it upwards, focusing on a spell. Trey spoke.

“[Farsight]. Ow!”

His vision zoomed in, accompanied by a stinging pain as his pupils frantically sought to compensate. Trey blinked and then stared at the tiny dot that he’d spotted coming down the road. His eyes widened. He saw a caravan of dark-skinned travellers. Camels, a wagon, no, a box with wheels completely covered from the sun. And leading them was a veiled girl he knew.

“Nawalishifra! She finally came!”

Gazi nodded. She leaned out the window carelessly besides Trey.

“She swore an oath. And it seems she’s brought much of her tribe with her. Good. My [King] has lamented the lack of a good [Blacksmith]. We have a few, but…let us greet her.”

“How?”

Gazi turned. Trey froze as he saw all four eyes turn towards him. He gripped the edge of the window, but he felt a hand on his.

“Gazi? Gazi, how—no, no, no—”



——



“So, we have arrived. Strike my hands, but this journey was long. And we would have made it quicker had you dung-beetles not gotten half the carts stuck in the sand. This is Reim, is it? It seems too poor to be the home of the King of Destruction.”

Nawalishifra Tannousin, or Nawal of the Tannousin clan, stopped and shaded her eyes as she stared up at the palace that was Reim’s capital. Behind her, the caravan of Tannousin warriors and clanswomen and clansmen stopped. They had travelled for weeks and were dusty with grime. Their passage into Reim had taken three stops as [Soldiers] halted them, but each time, Nawal had spoken their name, and they had let her pass.

Now she stared up at the towers and then back at the walls of the city. Reim was circular, and it had towers jutting up at regular intervals across each wall. Much like a crown. In fact, she had heard that the towers had come to life and shot lightning down at the army that had besieged Reim not two months past.

The thought of so much devastation made Nawal shudder. But still she stood by her words. Tall as the citadel was, she could see the places where stone had eroded. The city, for all it was bustling, was too plain and the people too underfed, too poor. Was this truly the home of the King of Destruction, whose grandeur and terror had conquered a continent?

A low voice from behind Nawal made her turn. One of the senior clanswomen, who was like Nawal, veiled, lowered her voice and hissed at Nawal.

“Nawalishifra, remember what the [Headman] told you, and the elders. Mind your tongue! You have sworn an oath, and the King of Destruction sent part of his payment, but you are not to offend! You are a woman—”

“Do you think I do not know that, you sand clod, you? Bezha, do I not bleed monthly? Do I not have breasts? Am I not veiled? Do not speak to me of what I know. I will mind my tongue in the presence of the King of Destruction and his servants, and not before.”

Nawal glared irritably at Bezha. She heard a sigh from the older woman.

“Only know that you are here because no one else was suited and you made an oath, a foolish oath!”

“How was I to know that the master of Trey Atwood was the King of Destruction himself? Were it any other man, my boast would have been true. And it will still be true, the sands take me if I lie!”

“Do not be overconfident!”

Bezha snapped back. Nawal tossed her head, but kept silent. In truth, she was afraid. She was the best [Blacksmith] of the Tannousin clan since her father’s passing. But she was young, not of the level he had been, and she feared the King of Destruction might scorn a weapon made by a woman, for all he had claimed otherwise.

If the elders and [Headman] could have sent anyone else, they would have. But Nawal was the only one skilled enough to work Naq-Alrama metal flawlessly. So she had come, and if she failed to uphold her vow to forge the King of Destruction a blade beyond what he had ever seen before, her tribe would surely suffer his wrath.

All these things were the knowledge that kept Nawal moving towards the citadel, though part of her was terrified and would have fled screaming. The King of Destruction. She had glimpsed him but once, speaking to the world, a figure as grand as she had imagined. What madness would his palace hold? What wonders? Part of her wondered if the stories of His Majesty were over exaggerated. But surely there was some truth. Or else, why fear him? Surely…

Nawal paused near the gates. She had expected to be welcomed by a thousand servants or to be ushered into the most meager of stables like insignificant servants until the King of Destruction deigned to see them. But neither event had occurred. A man was striding towards her, tall and gaunt, as smooth as a moonlight shadow across the courtyard. He was clearly a warrior of very high-level, and Nawal was stepping back to let one of the men greet him. That was, until she heard the scream.

All of the Tannousin clan looked about in confusion. Some of the guards grabbed their weapons uncertainly. Nawal glanced to her left, to her right, behind her, at the strange man who’d stopped, and then up. She saw a shape hurtling from one of the towers and heard a familiar voice screaming.

“AaaaaaaaaaaaahhhhhohgodI’mgoingtodie—”

Another shape plunged with him. The Tannousin caravan scattered in fear, but Nawal stayed put. She’d spotted the figure, and she saw the wand in the armored woman’s hand. As Trey Atwood plummeted to the ground, fifteen feet from it, Gazi raised a wand and spoke a word.

“[Featherfall].”

The two slowed. Trey, arms flailing, still screaming, slowed until he reached the ground. He landed softly and clung to the stones, shivering like…something that wobbled a lot. Nawal stared at the woman who’d landed on her feet next to him.

No, not woman. Gazer. Her four eyes turned towards Nawal, though her main eye remained shut. Nawal shuddered, and the Tannousin clan backed up around her, keeping their eyes down. It was said that those who met the main eye of Gazi the Omniscient died soon thereafter. But Nawal was staring at the famed adventurer’s armor. At her sword.

Gazi grinned at the Tannousin clan, then addressed Trey on the ground.

“You need to practice that spell. It’s always useful to know. I’ll toss you off the tower every morning until you can do it. Blindfolded. With your hands tied.”

“No…”

He moaned. And then looked up. Nawal’s smile was locked in place as Trey scrambled to his feet, blushing as he looked at her.

“Nawal! I mean, Nawalishifra?”

Nawal’s heart sank. But Trey had addressed her, and the other Tannousin men were terrified. She hesitated, then bowed.

“That is correct, Trey Atwood. We have come, in accordance with my oath. To forge the King of Destruction a blade unlike any he has ever seen!”

She prayed her boast was not idle. But perhaps she had time to perfect a masterwork? It didn’t seem like the King of Destruction had that high hopes for her. Maybe he would forget. Maybe he would be content with just a blade of Naq-Alrama metal and not the best blade ever forged. He’d only sent one person to greet them, after all, and Trey and Gazi the Omniscient didn’t count. Trey smiled.

“He’ll be delighted, I’m sure. He was expecting you. He’s out, but—Orthenon! This is Nawalishifra. The [Blacksmith] I told you about.”

Nawal froze. The Tannousin men and women turned, like statues, to stare at the gaunt man waiting for them. Orthenon, the Left Hand of the King of Destruction, raised an eyebrow as he stared at the Tannousin folk. At Trey. And Gazi, who grinned. And at Nawal. She quailed and wished she had never boasted of metal, never picked up a hammer so she might not disgrace her tribe and her father with her failure.

The King’s Steward. Gazi the Omniscient. And the King of Destruction was expecting her.

Oh, sands take her. What had she gotten herself into?





6.13 K


You were used to hearing their names. Like distant thunder. Like legends of old, like Dragons and heroes of a bygone era. [Kings] and [Queens], monarchs and famous adventurers, they were all the same. Names you heard, but never expected to meet. Giants you painted in your imagination, half-real figures who shook the world, but you were always so far away you only felt a rumble in the ground. Until the day you met one and realized everything was true.

And there he was. Orthenon, the King’s Steward. A tall, gaunt man with a long mustache and dark, somber clothing. He could have been an ordinary servant but for the gold that lined his clothing and the sword at his waist. Even then, you might have assumed he was a [Butler] of some kind, but his eyes betrayed him. They pierced straight through you with a glance; as imperious as any ruler born.

In that, he was every bit of the legend. As for the rest? He was not accompanied by an army of servants. His clothing was rather plain, for all it looked well on him. He stood by himself, straight and balanced. Not quite glaring at Trey and Gazi.

They’d fallen from a tower. Or rather, it sounded like Trey had been pushed. But there she stood as well. The half-Gazer, her skin orange-brown, her hair tied into dreadlocks and braided back. Three of her eyes looked towards Nawal and the rest of the frozen Tannousin clan, the fourth was staring at Trey, who was brushing himself, still shaking from his fall.

Two of the King of Destruction’s vassals here, in the flesh! You couldn’t have asked for a grander reception, however incidental. Nawal couldn’t take her eyes off Gazi’s armor or Orthenon’s single-edged sword. But mindful of what had to be done, another of the caravan stepped forwards and bowed deeply.

“Lord Orthenon of Reim! I am your humble servant, Silmak of Clan Tannousin. With me travel thirty-two of my kin. Among them I name Hesseif, who is chiefly tasked with defense of the caravan. Bezhavil, my aunt second-removed who is tasked with overseeing the womenfolk and managing the caravan itself, and Nawalishifra, who will serve as, ah, the [Blacksmith] in forging the Naq-Alrama steel. We have come far, bearing it, and are prepared to honor the oath made by Nawalishifra to the King of Destruction, long may he live!”

Silmak, the caravan’s leader, at least in name, swept a low bow towards the still Orthenon, and the rest of Clan Tannousin, breaking from their stasis, immediately knelt on the ground. The men who had been guarding the huge, covered wagon in which sat the precious Naq-Alrama metal, the treasure of their clan, were the only ones who stayed standing. They and the three Silmak had mentioned.

Hesseif, Bezha, and Nawal all approached and bowed deeply with Silmak. Nawal wondered if they should have knelt, but the stern face watching them gave no sign of displeasure. Then again, that might be as easily expressed by all of their heads suddenly rolling on the ground. She bowed her head, keeping her veil in place with one hand. And she kept it bowed until she heard a voice.

“I am Orthenon, the King of Destruction’s [Steward]. In the name of His Majesty Flos Reimarch, I greet you, Silmak, and your clan.”

An audible sigh of relief rippled through the kneeling Humans. They raised their heads, and Nawal saw Orthenon give Silmak a slight bow. He was in his twenties—Silmak, that was—and it was a mark of his experience that he didn’t waver as he returned the bow a second time, deeper. There was a reason why the elders and headman had chosen Silmak to lead the caravan and do the speaking, and not just because he was a man.

Orthenon went on, his voice crisp, still glancing at Trey, who was edging backwards, face flushed. Nawal remembered Trey. Oh, how could she forget? The strange, foreign boy who knew nothing of blades? And whom she had boasted to right before it turned out he and Gazi Pathseeker were both the King of Destruction’s servants in disguise? But Orthenon was speaking to Silmak, and Nawal focused on him lest she give offence.

“By the sands, I offer you sanctuary and friendship, Silmak, and to that of your clan gathered here. Let no one offer you violence under this roof, and know that should you ask it, both water and wine will flow so long as either remains in these halls. You are honored guests, so enter and find rest until the oases of Chandrar bleed dry.”

It was a good welcome, short, but powerful. The Tannousin clan straightened their backs. Honored guests? And the King of Destruction’s Steward had come to greet them? It was something you could brag till the end of your days. Then they remembered why they were accorded such honors, and all eyes turned to Nawalishifra.

[Blacksmith]. The one in charge of working the expensive, practically unique Naq-Alrama metal that their clan alone knew how to manufacture. By rights, she should have led the caravan and done the speaking. But there was a problem. Nawal was female. As fast as Silmak had tried to slip that into their greeting, there was no way Orthenon had missed that. His piercing gaze met Nawal’s, and she immediately looked down, shuddering in apprehension.

“Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin. I greet you. His Majesty has accepted your pledge to forge for him a blade without equal. So long as you pursue that vow, let the palace and, indeed, the city of Reim be open to you and whatever you need be made available.”

Another powerful greeting. But Nawal wished it were not so pointed.

“Lead me to your master, foreign warrior! Pay my cost and I will forge your master a blade sharper and finer than any he has laid eyes on in his life! My oath on it! I swear it on the body of the man-who-was-my-brother, cursed be his name!”

That was the oath Nawal had sworn near three weeks ago. She had had cause to regret it since. And the King of Destruction had taken that offer. He had sent a bag of holding full of gold by Courier to her tribe and requested her presence in his capital city. Nawal’s clan had debated the offer for three full days before it was decided that she had to come, woman or not.

But she was still female. And young. And Orthenon had to know how tricky Naq-Alrama steel was. The King’s Stewards stared at Nawal, but made no comment as to her gender or inexperience. Instead, Orthenon only nodded.

“The affairs of Reim keep me busy; even on this day, I prepare to ride north. However, four servants shall show you to your quarters and answer any needs you have.”

He gestured, and the servants, two men and two women, seemed to appear out of the doors behind him. It was well done, but again, Nawal had half-expected the number to be two hundred.

“We thank you, Lord Orthenon. It is truly generous.”

Silmak again answered for the clan. Orthenon inclined his head. Again, his eyes swept left. Towards Trey, who was now trying to sneak past the waiting servants.

“Trey.”

The young man froze. He looked back with a pained expression that betrayed all too much. There was one who understood nothing of diplomacy or intrigue! Nawal studied Trey a second time.

Clearly a foreigner. He had pale skin, and he looked odd in his clothes, for all he dressed like a city man. Yes, it was that awkwardness that marked him as not from Chandrar, from his dark blonde hair to the way he gave Orthenon a wide-eyed look. And the way he spoke!

“Er, yes, Orthenon? I was just, uh, being shown how to fall by Gazi.”

He looked around, as did Nawal, but Gazi Pathseeker had vanished. Nawal’s heart jumped although she should have expected nothing less. Orthenon looked disapproving, but he nodded succinctly. Then he turned back to Clan Tannousin and gestured at Trey.

“I understand your clan has met Trey Atwood, Honored Silmak. I would ask that you excuse any errors he makes. Trey Atwood is a companion of the King of Destruction, someone chosen to follow him. Bear that in mind, all of you.”

Trey turned red, but the Tannousin clan members gave him a look as if he’d sprouted another head. Nawal’s heart skipped a beat. One of the King of Destruction’s personal attendants? Not just a servant? Who was he? Then again, Gazi the Omniscient had spoken of training him…

Orthenon spoke again, driving all eyes back towards him.

“As for your task—I understand the journey was long. To have made it this far so quickly from Clan Tannousin’s traditional homes must have taken weeks of marching without rest. So, rest, and when you are able, I, or the King of Destruction, shall discuss the nature of the blade you will forge.”

“It is understood. We shall await his summons with the greatest anticipation.”

Silmak’s voice was slightly hoarse with nerves. Orthenon nodded. Without another word, he turned and strode back into the palace. One of the servants stepped forwards, an older woman.

“Will you follow me, Clan Tannousin? Your rooms await. And if you would care to retreat for lunch, it is being served. Follow me.”

She turned, and the clan awkwardly followed her as more servants came out to take the horses and belongings. There was a moment of hesitation when it came to the wagon, because the Tannousin men guarding it would let no one handle the contents or approach the wagon, not even the King of Destruction’s servants. But that was dealt with by letting them carry their burden inside, and Nawal was following Silmak anyways.

The thirty-two men and women milled about, beginning to follow the lead servant. On the way, they passed by Trey, who was awkwardly standing to one side, looking around as if still searching for Gazi. He caught Nawal’s eye as she passed him by and raised a hand, grinning sheepishly.

“Hi. I, uh—I’ll see you around, Nawal.”

She stared at him. Trey’s smile slipped, but Nawal nodded.

“We have met again, Trey Atwood. I will see you, if it is permitted.”

She bowed slightly, her hand resting on the little dagger at her side. Trey blinked at her, at it, nodded, and walked backwards before turning. Nawal watched him go, and the burning question in her breast finally made its way out.

Was that it? Was this all?

Part of her thought this was more than enough. She had seen two legends and heard both talk! The palace of the King of Destruction opened for her, and Nawal followed the four ordinary servants into the castle. But she couldn’t help but feel it should have been grander. Everything, that was.



——



“Ow.”

Across the world, Erin Solstice cut herself with a knife as she sliced some pork for a premade meal in her kitchen. Or rather, she thought she’d sliced herself. But when she checked her hand and the stinging line of pain, she found she’d barely cut into her skin.

“Whew. That’s a relief. No missing fingers? Check, check. I could have gotten myself badly! Then again—”

Erin frowned as she felt the edge of her knife gingerly with one finger. It was certainly sharp, but she’d had to work it through the meat, which had led to it cutting her to begin with. True, it was also her fault for getting her fingers in the way, but recent events had led Erin to focus on the quality of her knives. Or rather, their sharpness.

“You’re not that sharp, are you? I thought you were hot stuff, but I guess that was back when I first sliced my hand open by accident. Now look at you.”

Erin placed her knife on the table counter and stared at it. The plain steel stared back. Erin tried to think of how many things she’d cut in the time since.

“Too many to count! And you were always there with me, buddy. Well, I’m afraid to say that you’ve lost your edge. Sad. What’ll I do?”

The knife didn’t respond. Erin bent until it was at eye level.

“Don’t worry. I know a guy. Well, a Dullahan. But why should I settle for just him? Maybe the problem’s not just the knife being sharp. Maybe you’re just not up to scratch!”

She poked the knife.

“Ow. Okay, you’re still sort of sharp. But…I mean, I never went to Liscor’s [Blacksmiths]. But Pallass has really good [Blacksmiths], right? Hold on, I’m going to ask. Hey, Selys!”

Erin poked her head into the common room. There was a shout.

“What?”

“Does Liscor have [Blacksmiths]? And are they any good compared to Pallass?”

“Liscor has [Blacksmiths]! Why wouldn’t we? But Pallass is known for having good [Blacksmiths]!”

“Got it, thanks!”

Erin reappeared in the kitchen, although her conversation would have been perfectly audible if there was anyone to hear. Which there wasn’t; there was only a knife on the counter and some sliced pork. Erin shook her head sadly as she picked up said knife.

“Well, buddy. It might be curtains for you. I’m gonna check this out. Let me just slice the rest of this pork…”

She sliced the pork, shoved it to one side for Lyonette to use in the stir fry she’d wanted to try out with her [Flawless Attempt] Skill, and wandered into the common room.

“Hey, Ishkr! Tell Lyonette I’m going to Pallass! See you all later! Still on holiday!”

Erin waved at the room. No one waved back. Selys was too busy playing with Mrsha and her ball, and the other adventurers were busy reading one of Calruz’s maps and arguing. It might turn into a fistfight, or it might not. Erin walked over to the magic door and changed it to Pallass.

“Nobody cares about me anymore.”

She grumbled as she stepped through the door. Instantly, there was sunlight and noise. It was midday in Pallass, or just about. Bright, sunny—Erin looked around and noticed a Drake glaring at her.

“Oh hey! It’s you again! Okay, I know I’m not on the list, but—hey, don’t you point that spear at me!”

That was how she began her day. This tale had no bearing on Nawal’s introduction to Reim, but it was still relevant for other reasons. After all, Erin had little notion of, or interest in, the King of Destruction. But this wasn’t a tale about him today.



——



“…And here is the interior well. You may draw from it freely at need. Please seek out one of the servants if you have any other needs.”

The old woman finished her tour, and Bezha nodded. Both she and Nawal stared at the indoor well—who would have thought of such a thing?—and tried to guess at how much water it could supply. A lot, surely, if it was free for anyone to use. Reim must have been one of the natural oases—like many of the kingdoms or cities, it had grown on top of the only available water supply. Of course, there were some parts of Chandrar that even had streams and rivers, but Nawal had never seen them. She was born of the Tannousin tribe, and they wandered the edge of the great desert, plying their trade while mining the scattered deposits of ore only their tribe remembered existed.

It was a harsh life, but if they abandoned their lands, someone else would swoop in to control the valuable resources of metal. After all, it was said that in Chandrar, water was worth the same as blood. By the same token, steel and wood were worth their weight in gold if shaped correctly.

The King of Destruction lacked for neither, or so Nawal had assumed. The brief tour had taken her to the banquet halls, past training grounds filled with soldiers, through bustling corridors filled with servants, and finally here, to a wing of the palace devoted to guests. Now she and Bezha returned to the quarters gifted to the Tannousin clan.

The quarters were…nice. Yes, nice was the word. The palace of Reim had enough unused wings and rooms to house a caravan twenty times the size of Clan Tannousin without issue, and so the clan found themselves treated to wide, spacious rooms free of dust and beds of soft cotton. Nawal had her private room, as did Silmak, Hesseif, and Bezha, as befit their status. Meanwhile, the rest of the clan was given two large bunk rooms, one for the women and one for the men.

Spacious. You couldn’t ask for better treatment, really. Had they been in any other castle or palace, Nawal was certain they’d be sharing rooms and that their status, even as a blacksmithing clan, wouldn’t earn them private rooms to themselves. But here she had her own private bed, freshly made. ‘Nice’ might be too weak a word. This was excellent treatment for a nomadic tribe who had done nothing yet to earn it.

And yet—cotton sheets. Nawal had to poke them a few times to be sure. The soft cloth was luxurious, to be certain, but they weren’t exactly silk. Perhaps it was a reminder of their status? But the drapes and other decorations in the palace had been made of cotton too, not silks or more expensive fabrics. And the walls had been decorated with some paintings, but many spots were conspicuously bare. Had the palace been looted?

Bezha wondered the same thing as both Hesseif and Silmak met with them. Obviously, it was inappropriate for them to be together in a closed room, two men who weren’t Nawal’s immediate family in the same room, but Bezha was Hesseif’s aunt and they were all of the same tribe, so they left the door partly open. This wasn’t the time for strictest adherence to custom either.

“It’s fine treatment, Nawali. Don’t prod so. Were this any other castle, you would be overjoyed for a single room for us to share! And the quarters are filled with beds so that the men and women can stretch out and not roll into each other as they sleep! This is beyond gracious!”

The older woman pointed that out to Nawal. The [Blacksmith] scowled, flexing her callused hands restlessly.

“But this is the King of Destruction’s abode, is it not? Surely there are some rooms meant for the most privileged of guests, and we are not they! Our beds are simple, but is this a courtesy of goodwill or the basest of rooms spared because we are considered savages?”

Silmak shook his head.

“Hardly savages. You heard the way the King’s Steward welcomed us. Perhaps there aren’t any rooms filled with silk beds and rugs that span wall to wall?”

“And pretty maidens to wait on us hand and foot.”

Hesseif sighed. Nawal glared at him, and the big caravan guard hunched his shoulders. Technically, he and Silmak were in charge, but Hesseif was actually rather timid outside of battle. And Silmak? He only sighed when Nawal shifted her glare to him.

“It may be we are treated as those of lesser station, Nawal. What of it? Would you argue if you heard a [Lord] resided in the most luxurious of rooms, or a [First Warrior] of a tribe? No, I would not. And yes, it is odd that our rooms are not grand as the legends say, but perhaps silk bed sheets are too much to ask of the King of Destruction’s castle?”

He raised his eyebrows meaningfully, and Nawal flushed. It was true; expecting that would be insane anywhere but the King of Destruction’s castle. Bezha nodded, running her tattooed hands up her covered arms.

“Perhaps such riches were sold off, too. Twenty years would lay any kingdom low. Perhaps they sold all of what was here to survive. It would not do to bring it up lest we cause offence. We should not cause any offence.”

She looked at Nawal when she said that. The young woman blushed and tugged her veil more securely around her face furiously. She gripped the dagger at her side.

“I will mind my tongue. But I represent Clan Tannousin, and we are due respect!”

“And the King of Destruction is due deference and fear and awe! And you are a woman!”

Bezha smacked Nawal on the back of her neck. Nawal’s grip tightened on her dagger, but she didn’t unsheathe it. Silmak looked between the two, not wanting to intrude on the argument and go the way of Nawal’s brother.

“Patience, Nawal, Bezha. We know not if offence has been given or taken. It is simply good now that we were issued a welcome and both bed and sustenance, is it not? We should eat first and then inquire. But tell me—that foreign boy whom the King’s Steward spoke of. Trey Atwood. He was the one who you met, wasn’t he, Nawal?”

The young woman nodded. So did Hesseif.

“He was the same, Silmak. I would recognize him a thousand times over, sands strike my eyes if I err. Nawal must be careful around him, lest she give offence, even to someone not of Chandrar.”

A second poke at Nawal. The [Blacksmith] girl knew they were right—she’d gotten into trouble countless times and been taken to task by everyone from her deceased father, may he rest in the sands, to Bezha. But she still tossed her head defiantly.

“I did not know he was so important. But he is still a servant, is he not? Should I not speak to him like some dumb mule? I am the one chosen to forge the Naq-Alrama blades. To speak with a foreigner like Trey Atwood is not as disgraceful, surely.”

“You swore to make a blade that surpasses any the King of Destruction has ever seen. Let us hope he has never laid eyes on a Naq-Alrama blade. Or that he does not hold you to the strictest words of your promise.”

Silmak’s eyes were guarded. Nawal’s bluster faded. She looked around the room. Hesseif, Bezha, both stared at Nawal with the question in their eyes. Could she do it alone? Nawal had been trained by her father, yes, and aided him when he was too weak to do the forging, but always under his supervision.

This year was the first since his passing, and this would be the first blade of Naq-Alrama steel she forged unaided. It was a challenge even for a fully experienced Tannousin [Blacksmith], and Nawal was yet young and low-level for the work, even if she was the best in her clan by far.

Part of Nawal faltered. But then she straightened her back defiantly.

“I will forge him blades of our steel that can cut through any spell! If he asks for more, I will rise to his challenge! What else can be done? Until an apprentice rises in level and skill, I am the only [Blacksmith] our tribe possesses. If I cannot forge the Naq-Alrama steel perfectly, our people will scatter to dust.”

Nawal pounded her breast passionately.

“I may curse the fact ten thousand times waking that I was born a woman and not a man and that no other apprentice lived long enough or had the skill to follow in my deceased father’s footsteps, may he rest in the sands, but I will not disgrace our tribe! If I do, may my hammer twist in my hands and my blood water the sands!”

The three Tannousin clan leaders nodded solemnly. What choice did they have indeed? The King of Destruction had offered them gold where no one else would take their steel, let alone Nawal’s craft. If they had to live in the stables with the animals, they would humble themselves to keep their clan alive.

Bezha sighed as she sat in a chair made of soft, polished wood and backed by fabric.

“Then remember that, Nawali. Do not disgrace us, and we will support you. I will see to the caravan as I always have and ensure they do not cause offence—even find work for them if work is to be had in Reim.”

“I will guard the metal. It is being kept in a room, and we will stand watch day and night and let no one not of our blood enter, or any ray of sunlight in.”

Hesseif bowed his broad, shaved head. Silmak nodded. His eyes shone, and his hands, tattooed like Bezha’s, sparkled and lit up as he looked at Nawal.

“And I will prepare your forge, Nawalishifra. When the time is needed, we will do all in our power to give you no reason for failure. The rest lies on you.”

Nawal nodded, pride filling her along with fear. Her clan was with her. What else could she ask for? She bowed her head low, once, and the others did likewise. Then she went to find Trey to ask him to show her around the castle. He seemed the most approachable, the least guarded and easiest not to offend with careless talk.

Most importantly, he was a foreigner, and she could speak freely to him and ask how good the King of Destruction’s [Blacksmiths] were. And at least in this, Nawal hoped the legends of the King of Destruction were exaggerated. Because she wanted to see the competition she would be facing.

No one could remember specific legends of the King of Destruction’s [Blacksmiths], although all agreed they must have been mighty workers of metal and magical ore, so Nawal had hopes that the greatest of the masters had died out or gone elsewhere in his slumber. At the very least, she was relieved none of the legends mentioned Dwarves serving the King of Destruction. They would be really hard to outdo.



——



Erin Solstice stomped down the streets of Pallass towards one of the elevators, grumbling to herself. This was actually a good sign, despite the people who gave her weird looks.

“Stupid, uptight Drake guards. It’s my door! Security risk, am I? Your face is a security risk! That’s what I should have said. Boom! Nice one, Erin. High-five, self-five!”

Erin slapped her hands together over her head and laughed. She felt better today. More like normal Erin after—gosh, how long had it been? Ages. But somehow she was in a good mood. Even if she thought about Goblins, she didn’t want to cry—at least not now.

“Ninth floor, please! That’s the blacksmithing section, right?”

Erin asked the elevator attendant. The female Drake, who Erin could have sworn was the same one as yesterday, sighed and nodded.

“That’s correct, Miss. Please stand clear of the ledge.”

“Whoops. Sorry.”

Erin walked further into the elevator and watched the Drake teen pull a lever. The elevator started to go up very quickly.

“You know, you should really have buttons instead of that lever! So the elevator stops on whatever floor you press a button for! It’d be a lot safer I bet!”

The Drake frowned as Erin gestured to an imaginary set of buttons.

“What would my job be, then?”

The young woman wavered and gave the Drake attendant a blank look.

“Uh…pressing the buttons, I guess?”

The Drake thought about that. She pulled a second lever, and the elevator slowed.

“That would be nice. Hm. Ninth floor, Miss.”

“Thanks!”

Erin smiled at her, walked onto the ninth floor, and immediately heard a different noise take over. Clanging, sharp and brisk, filled the air, and behind it, a dull mix of voices, the sound of metal rasping on metal. Shouts as someone carrying white-hot metal navigated around the edge of a blacksmithing shop—the sounds of serious work.

There was something appealing about it; Erin had never seen anything like it in her world. Industrial factories were precise, mechanical without fault unless something went wrong. But this? This was organized chaos.

“Time to find me a [Blacksmith] and see about that knife. I wonder if I can get an extra-sturdy one if I have to slice up Ashfire Bees or stab monsters with it too?”

Erin rubbed her hands as she walked forwards. Last time, she’d admired how many forges there were, but she hadn’t really appreciated the layout. Pallass had effectively created half a floor dedicated only to the blacksmiths and given them rows of forges to work out of. Each one was more or less identical, such that you could move into one for the day, set up, and move out, or rent a space indefinitely.

It was the first step towards industrialization; Erin saw there was a dedicated cargo elevator meant to ferry supplies to the smiths, and more than one Street Runner was loitering about, perhaps waiting to deliver a finished product or take a request. Erin passed by working Drake and Dullahans until she came to three forges near the middle and spotted some familiar faces.

“There’s Maughin! And, uh…Pelt!”

Erin spotted the two [Blacksmiths] she’d been introduced to yesterday. Maughin, the giant among Dullahans, and Pelt, the Dwarven smith. Both were at work, but that was a generous term in one case. Maughin was busy tending to some metal in a furnace and instructing some of his journeymen at the same time, but Pelt was leaning on his anvil, scowling at some metal and hitting it with desultory whacks of his hammer. He was clearly hung over and not feeling it.

There was some irony in the two working side-by-side. As Erin approached, she saw Pelt grimace as someone hit a piece of metal especially hard in Maughin’s smithy. He turned and bellowed.

“Can’t your apprentices keep up a decent rhythm, Maughin? Or is hitting something too hard all they know?”

“Better that they have energy to spare than none at all.”

The Dullahan’s head glared back from its seat in a small basket where it could watch the metal heating in the furnace. Pelt snorted and flipped his hammer, catching it by the hilt.

“If I wanted to, I could do my job and yours. Don’t make me come over there!”

“The only time you’d come over is if we had anything to drink. Leave my apprentices alone!”

The two snapped at each other and got back to work. Erin eyed Pelt. Hm. Now, what had her friendly guides to the city said? You went to Maughin for reliable stuff and Pelt for masterworks. Well, the Dwarf looked cranky, so she headed to Maughin first.

“Excuse me! Hey! Excuse me, Maughin!”

“Don’t enter the forge, Human! We’ve hot metal about! Master Maughin’s busy! If you have a request, make it at the shop! Third floor!”

A female Dullahan stopped Erin, shouting as she picked up her head. Erin backed up a few steps, but she saw Maughin’s head turn.

“Ah. Miss Solstice. Lasica and Rufelt’s acquaintance. What can I do for you?”

He walked over swiftly, motioning his apprentice back. Erin smiled up at him.

“Hey! Maughin, I was hoping I could commission a knife. Er, mine’s all dull, and I thought I could use a new one. So…”

The Dullahan was frowning and shaking his head slightly.

“A knife, is it? I would oblige you, Miss Solstice, but my forge is swamped with orders. I won’t have time for at least three days to even think of something like a knife. But there are plenty of good smiths on this level. Ask about their forges. You might be able to squeeze in the order.”

“Got it! Thanks!”

He nodded and went back to work. Erin backed up.

“Well then. I guess—hey! Your name’s Pelt, right!”

The Dwarf looked up and winced as Erin walked over. Out of the corner of her eye, she saw Maughin look back at her, twisting his head all the way around on his shoulders. Erin smiled as the Dwarf gave her the exact opposite of a smile.

“Oh, you. The Human. What do you want? A knife? Go to hell, I’m not taking orders, and especially not for anything that doesn’t involve lots of gold.”

“Aw. But I could use a knife, and I heard you’re good. Plus, you’re not that busy.”

He sneered at her.

“I’m working on a gear. For those damn elevators. You’ve probably never seen something like this—”

He indicated the half-forged gear. Erin was a bit impressed when she looked and saw it resembled a proper gear like she’d find in a clock, teeth and all. And he was doing it by hand, which was crazy enough!

“What, that? I know gears. Yours looks nice. Big one, though. Probably needs a smaller gear to make it work. And, uh, one of those rotating axle things. You sure you can’t make a knife? I can pay.”

Pelt looked at Erin. He stared at his gear, looked up, and then glared.

“No. You want a knife? A hundred gold pieces and I’ll forge you one.”

Someone laughed. Erin paused uncomfortably. She was still new to the economics of this world despite having lived here—food was cheap to an extent, but anything magical or high-quality like armor and weapons, especially enchanted ones, were exorbitant. But she was sure that a kitchen knife wasn’t worth even ten gold coins.

“Er, no thanks. I’ll ask around.”

“Get lost, then.”

Pelt turned his back on Erin at once. She glared at his back. Then she heard more laughter and a louder voice.

“Hah! If Pelt won’t make you what you want, why not stop over here, little Human lady? I might have time!”

She turned. Pelt’s forge was located next to Maughin’s, which was on the right, but on the left another smith was working. Alone, unlike Pelt, who had a single Drake apprentice, and Maughin’s space, which was two forges filled with workers. Erin saw a Gnoll in a large apron and nothing else waving at her. She headed over, blinking at him. He was a tall, lean fellow with long, wiry arms.

“You’re a Gnoll!”

“Well observed, Miss.”

The Gnoll leaned on his anvil, grinning toothily at her. Erin blinked and then laughed with him. He had one of those infectiously good-natured personalities and the attitude of joking when he spoke. She liked him at once.

“Sorry, I just thought most Gnolls don’t smith! Fur and all that.”

“Well, it does get in the way. But I’m no ordinary smith! I normally don’t work here, in fact, but I’ve rented the space for the day. How do you do? Bealt. City Gnoll and [Farrier]. At your service.”

He held out a paw, the fur singed and sooty around his hand, and Erin, smiling, shook it. She felt a strong grip and a rougher paw than some of the Gnolls’ hands she’d touched.

“Erin Solstice! [Innkeeper] and, uh, City Human!”

That made Bealt laugh again. He was setting up for the day with long, thin bars of metal about half a finger’s length wide and pouring charcoal or maybe coal—Erin couldn’t honestly tell the difference if there even was one—into his furnace, arranging it just so.

“Pleased! So, you need a knife, Miss Solstice? Yours run out?”

“I think so. At least, it’s fairly dull, but I was shopping for a new knife anyways. Er, a special knife for really tough stuff like bugs or…I was thinking of cutting a Shield Spider up and serving it to some of my guests!”

Bealt nearly lost his grip on his hammer. He swung around.

“Shield Spiders? And you want to cook one? Wait—you must be Miss Erin Solstice of Liscor! The crazy Human with the inn! Why didn’t I realize it before? Let me shake your hand again!”

He shook her hand, laughing, and sniffed her this time.

“Ah, but I heard of what you did. And heard more from my kin in Liscor, although I’ve not gone through to visit. Welcome twice, then! And if you need a knife, I think I can fit you in. I don’t have that much work, you see, but you might need to wait.”

“I literally have nothing else planned for today. So I can wait!”

Bealt chuckled.

“I mean, I’m going to be at least a few hours! I rented this space to make some horseshoes.”

“Horseshoes?”

Erin supposed that was a traditional blacksmith-y thing to do. But Bealt grinned.

“Yes! It’s my trade. I always like to have some ready, and Pallass has enough horses to give me all the work I need. I am a [Farrier]—do you know what that is?”

“Er…I don’t. Sorry, I was going to ask.”

“No problem! Farriers are simply a type of smith that also deal with horses. I clean their hooves, shoe them—and if they throw a shoe or get injured, I’m the one called to help them.”

Erin began to recall her vague and limited farming-related knowledge.

“Oh! So you’re almost like a horse doctor!”

“Only for the hooves, Miss Solstice. Only the hooves. But if you want to watch, I’ll show you my craft right here and now. The furnace is lit, I have my metal ready—”

He indicated the lengths of metal, and Erin stared at the bars, wondering how you’d turn that into a horseshoe. Or rather, how you’d make a perfect bend. All the Gnoll had was a hammer and a few tools. One of them looked like a long spike.

“—And I’ve got the Skills to do my work quick and easy. Better than a grumpy Dwarf or a Dullahan overworked! I can have your knife done by the end of the day, and my horseshoes as well!”

Bealt’s voice carried over to Pelt and Maughin, both of whom turned and glared. Erin raised her eyebrows, delighted by the way the solo Bealt was needling the two experts. She raised her voice too.

“Well, if you can, I’d love to see how you make horseshoes! And a knife! I don’t know a lot about smithing, actually.”

It was the right thing to say. Bealt’s grin spread from ear to ear.

“Well then, take a seat, Miss Solstice! There’s one to be found I’m sure. And if you value your ears, maybe get a bit of wax! It gets noisy. But let me make a few shoes first! And remember this: there are many smiths who make all sorts, from swords to knives and nails! Some make armor and some delicate art! But if you need quick work and reliable steel, always ask for the [Farrier]!”

He swung his hammer, and the anvil rang with the sound. Erin was delighted with Bealt’s easy way. But she saw the other smiths glaring, and she knew that what he’d said were fighting words. And part of Erin, the devious part, sat up and began to form a plan.



——



Well, as second meetings went, his with Nawal had been about as poor as you could hope. Trey wondered if she’d seen his shaking knees. And he’d ruined Orthenon’s greeting to them. That scared Trey almost as much as Nawal’s wrath. Almost. Orthenon was scary, but fair. But Nawal had killed her brother the first time he’d met her.

Then again, she was still outclassed by Gazi. The half-Gazer appeared as Trey went to lunch and got his meal of fried Yellats and some actual meat—goat—along with some fresh rye bread. Trey was eating it with some tea—Chandrar had tea, but it was all dreadfully spicy stuff, sadly—and happily eating by himself. Then she appeared, and Orthenon moments later.

“Trey.”

Neither of them carried their food with them. It was set before them when they sat, Gazi next to him, Orthenon across. The [Steward] ate the same as Trey, efficiently wielding his fork and knife. Gazi ate with similar etiquette, although she didn’t even bother tilting her head to look at her plate since her eyes could look through her skull.

Trey gulped down some of the Yellats in silence. He had good table manners, so the company fit him, as opposed to, say, Teres, Mars, and Flos, all of whom ate faster and with less grace. Mars was especially bad and treated half of her foods like finger foods despite them being anything but.

“Er, hullo, Orthenon. Gazi. Good morning. Or lunch. I didn’t interrupt you greeting Nawal and the others, did I?”

“Clan Tannousin did not take offence from what I saw. But mind yourself, Trey. Chandrarian folk take perceived insults seriously, and the desert clans are especially touchy.”

Orthenon did not greet Trey. He spoke in a clipped manner as he sawed his goat meat in half and ate a slice. Trey nodded. It felt like Orthenon was one of his teachers sometimes, strict and unbending.

“Right. I understand that. Ah, did you want me to show Nawal around?”

“Perhaps. I understand Gazi is done teaching you for the day.”

The man shot a glance at Gazi, not especially friendly. She smiled toothily at him.

“Trey protests he’s overworked. And I think you want me to deal with Clan Tannousin, Orthenon.”

“Correct. You have your eyes on them?”

Gazi tapped a finger on her right cheek. Trey hadn’t noticed—you didn’t really stare at Gazi’s revolving eyes unless you didn’t want to eat—but two of her eyes had been rolled up in the back of her head all this time while the other two roamed free.

“Already watching. They appear to be settling in. I detect little guile from them. Just worry. It is in their body language. The ones mentioned were the leaders.”

Orthenon nodded, patting his lips with a handkerchief. He’d already finished eating! Trey stared. Forget Flos or Mars, Orthenon was the quickest! And somehow, the cleanliest!

“I doubt they’re spies, but if you could monitor them, I would be grateful.”

“Of course. And I will guard Reim in your absence. You ride to Germina?”

Orthenon’s brow creased slightly. Trey looked between him and Gazi, trying to read the unspoken words as much as the spoken ones. Some of Flos’ vassals did not get along, and Orthenon and Gazi’s relationship highlighted that. They were professionally courteous, but Gazi had said plainly to Trey that she and Orthenon weren’t always on the same page. Although…they had been a couple once. That boggled Trey’s mind as well.

“I will be departing tomorrow morning, yes. The Quarass must be spoken to, although I expect she will restore order quite quickly. Nevertheless, I intend to relieve Venith and Maresar and set up contacts and arrange a system while we are there. We must have Germina’s soldiers joining our army soon, not to mention their [Assassin] corps.”

“More spies for me to watch. Move them slowly. I don’t have enough eyes, especially with this one missing.”

Gazi sighed and tapped her main eye gently. It was always closed, still healing or still damaged from whomever had poked it out. Orthenon nodded brusquely.

“I will keep you informed. As for Hellios—I may have to spend weeks there, dealing with the aftermath of His Majesty’s edict. It will not be easy, although the abdication of Queen Calliope will smooth things considerably.”

“Speak to Prince Siyal. His Majesty desired his cooperation.”

“Naturally. Until then, Trey.”

The young man jumped as Orthenon looked back at him.

“Yes?”

“His Majesty will return soon if he is travelling at full speed. No doubt he will wish to stay in Reim, and you will of course accompany him. Until then, if this Nawalishifra seeks you out, accommodate her reasonable requests. She is a guest and one of rare talent. I still don’t quite understand how the Tannousin Clan was persuaded to send a caravan to us.”

Orthenon drummed his fingers on the table. Trey looked blank.

“They’re that impressive? I mean, I know that magical metal they make is really good. But how special is it?”

Both the Steward and Gazi exchanged a look over Trey’s head. Gazi smiled slightly.

“A Naq-Alrama blade would suit His Majesty. But Clan Tannousin normally charges a fortune even for a dagger made of their metal. The fact that we could persuade one of their smiths, even a young one, to journey here is a great boon. They normally take no sides and only sell their blades at bazaars like the one we visited.”

“I understand you’re to thank for that, Trey.”

Orthenon frowned again at Trey. Sometimes, he did that too, as if he was trying to figure Trey out. Gazi nodded.

“He found her by chance. But it was truly luck, because the Tannousin clan had ready Naq-Alrama steel and no one capable of smithing it, Orthenon.”

His brows snapped together.

“Really? But the girl they claimed to be a [Smith] was—”

“Their best smith died, and only his daughter was able to work the Naq-Alrama steel.”

“Ah. Naturally. A female smith wouldn’t be accepted by the tribes. Or in a lot of the northern lands. Well, that is a coincidence. A fortunate one for you to find, Trey.”

Orthenon shook his head dismissively before giving Trey another long look. The young man from England rolled his shoulders uncomfortably. Orthenon stood up, and a servant took his dishes and utensils away.

“I must return to work.”

That was how he said ‘goodbye’. But Orthenon didn’t make it out of the room. He got four steps when a voice called his name.

“Orthenon! I beg a word, if you have the time?”

The man turned. Striding towards them was a figure Trey recognized. Several figures, actually. They wore turbans and carried light clothing, often exposing their bare skin despite the sands and heat. Their leader wore a long, curved blade at his side, and the two following him were armed—one with daggers, the other with a bow and short sword. They stood out, even from the other [Soldiers] dining in the banquet hall.

They were part of the Serpent Hunters of Clais. They were a band of irregulars in Flos’ army, mercenaries who’d come to join his banners the instant they’d heard of his return. As far as Trey understood it, they were notable for two things: using envenomed blades and being String People.

String People. Quick to smile and take offence and energetic, even at the hottest parts of the day. The man speaking to Orthenon had pale gold stitch marks around his neck, shoulders, bared midriff, and joints on his wrists and elbows. Knees too. Stitch-People could and would remove injured or damaged body parts, turning them back into cloth to be repaired. They were like Cloth Golems—only, say that and you’d get your teeth knocked out.

Now the three paused before Orthenon, and their leader swept him a dramatic bow. Then again, they were always like that. The Serpent Hunters had been in Reim for months, and Trey had gotten used to them. A bit.

“Steward Orthenon, I hate to interrupt, but I crave an audience on the word of our trainees. The one His Majesty ordered us to induct into our ranks?”

“Of course. Speak.”

Orthenon turned to face the leader, who was named Jelaim. The leader of the Stitch-folk nodded, and the Stitch-Woman beside him stepped forwards. She unsheathed her daggers, and Trey gulped as he saw the blades flash out. But it was a flourish, nothing more. Jelaim grinned at him and Gazi seated at the table.

“Morning’s greetings to you, young Trey, and to you, Lady Pathseeker! You see our weapons? Enchanted blades, and poisoned in their sheaths.”

The daggers the female warrior twirled in her grip were indeed coated with a dark black substance, and the metal beneath shone bright silver, too bright for the banquet hall’s lighting. They were curved and wicked, and Trey knew the Serpent Hunters were considered some of the best warriors present at the moment.

Orthenon, who was one of the best warriors in the entire kingdom, perhaps the world, didn’t look impressed.

“I’m aware of the Serpent Hunters’ arms, Jelaim. What is your point?”

“Ah, Steward! The point is only that we lack more such weapons to give to our trainees! We have dozens now, learning our tricks and fighting, but we can give them no weapons that will not corrode with our venoms. We need weapons.”

Jelaim struck an anguished pose, and the Stitch-Warriors behind him performed parodies of the same pose. That was another thing. String People could be extraordinarily dramatic. Trey almost laughed, but Orthenon just sighed.

“We have steel blades being churned out in our forges. You’ve seen Smith Daiton’s work. If you need new weapons, I can order him to focus on blades for your recruits.”

“But that is steel, Steward Orthenon. Our blades must be at least enchanted to not decay with our poisons. Can more not be spared from His Majesty’s treasury?”

Jelaim protested, looking from Orthenon to Gazi. Orthenon frowned, shaking his head.

“We have few enchanted blades, aside from the collection Mars brought, and those are already distributed amongst our officers. I understand your problem now. Mage Ulyse!”

He raised his voice. Another body turned in the hall, and Trey saw a second notable group turn and move towards them. The Serpent Hunters turned as a pair of [Mages] in long robes walked towards them. But these [Mages] were also unique; both carried light parasols, bright and colorful, ostensibly to block out the sun.

But Parasol Stroll, as they were known, was a [Mage] group in which each of their members carried a parasol that was enchanted to enhance their magic and even cast spells on its own, like a staff or wand other [Mages] used. The two of them, a middle-aged man and a younger woman, approached. Orthenon addressed the man swiftly.

“Mage Ulyse, Mage Mirin, I’m aware Parasol Stroll is already busy performing the work of the Mage’s Guild and coordinating the rest of Reim’s magical needs. But have you an [Enchanter] or a [Mage] capable of enchanting blades for Jelaim’s warriors?”

“Ah. Enchantments is it? We know a few spells, if only to make our parasols. But I’m afraid the task isn’t that simple. Hm. No it is not.”

Ulyse, the leader of Parasol Stroll, had distant eyes and greying hair. He never quite looked anyone in the eyes, but Trey, who was himself learning to be a [Mage], could sense his magical power hidden behind his vacant stare. Ulyse had a bright yellow parasol, which looked to be made of silk or some other shiny cloth and embroidered with moons of silver. It was closed, but Ulyse tapped the tip on the ground as he thought.

“What is the problem, Ulyse? If you need blades, we have enough to spare from the forges. Even if some are lost to the enchanting process.”

Orthenon frowned, crossing his arms. Ulyse shook his head. Despite the [Steward]’s impatience, he couldn’t be rushed as he gave his reply.

“The quality of metal…is not good. Yes. That’s how I would say it. Metal requires purity, and we have seen Smith Daiton’s blades. Beautiful, but flawed. Incapable of holding enchantments, right, Mirin?”

“Yes. They are combination steel. Imperfect. Good for weapons. Poor for enchantments.”

The younger [Mage] spoke up. Mirin was quiet, her face shadowed, her voice soft. She was the kind of girl Trey might have fallen in love with at home, older than him by about six years, and reluctant to speak, but erudite when she did. Orthenon nodded.

“There you have it, Captain Jelaim. We did bring in a smith from the Tannousin clan, but she is not obligated to make blades for us. I will inquire, but until then, all we have is steel.”

“Oh. Tannousin has sent one of their [Smiths]? Perhaps there is hope after all.”

Jelaim had been sagging, but now his eyes shone. He turned to Orthenon.

“Where is this smith? And how long will she stay? Does she pass through?”

“She is staying to forge a blade for His Majesty. As for the rest, I would ask that you not make requests of her until His Majesty has spoken with her clan. I must return to my work, but Trey will be able to answer any questions you have.”

Orthenon’s brisk voice gave Trey the impression he’d be checking his watch if he had one. He turned, nodded once as a goodbye, and strode out of the banquet hall, moving so fast Trey felt the wind pass him by. That was Orthenon for you; he was like lightning on a horse too.

Jelaim didn’t seem put out by Orthenon’s speedy departure. He turned to Trey and swept another bow. Trey copied it awkwardly.

“Ah, Trey! So you’ve caused another stir! And so early yet! Not even lunch past. Have you finished your meal? I wouldn’t wish to bother you while you eat.”

“Thank you. But I’m done, uh, Captain Jelaim?”

“Captain!”

Jelaim laughed, and the other two String People behind him laughed as well. Trey turned red as Ulyse and Mirin smiled, but politely. Gazi—well, she was already grinning.

“Don’t call me Captain, Trey Atwood! Captain is a term for a class, for soldiers! True, I might be a mercenary captain, but I have none of these classes. Call me Serpent Hunter Jelaim or Hunter Jelaim if you must stick to honorifics. But I would prefer my name and be honored to use yours!”

Trey blinked at that little speech.

“Serpent Hunter? Then that means you…hunt serpents?”

Again, Jelaim laughed, slapping his thigh as if Trey was hilarious. Which, from Mirin’s quiet chuckle, he was.

“I am a [Serpent Hunter]. Not that I always hunt serpents. But from this class we have built our group. It’s a class that uses poison in our weapons, you see?”

“Of course. And you’re, uh, taking new recruits? Is that what you said?”

Jelaim nodded. He gestured to the curved blade at his side.

“Training. His Majesty welcomed us into his home. We will fight his enemies of course, but he desires us to take any of the String Folk into our ranks and teach them our ways. Thus, our ranks swell with dozens of new recruits already, and perhaps hundreds or thousands should His Majesty claim a land filled with our kind.”

“Why only String People? Is that one of your rules? Do you not teach Humans?”

Jelaim shook his head.

“Not out of malice, no. But practicality. String People can take off a limb as easily as you take off clothes, Trey Atwood. If we are struck by a snake, we can remove our arm before the poison spreads. How can poison damage cloth? It may ruin it, but a new arm can always be woven. Humans are not so fortunate. It is a miracle your people ever settled Chandrar, but here you are.”

He grinned at Trey, gesturing to one of his bare shoulders, at the golden thread. Trey nodded slowly.

“Well I, uh, I’m happy to help if I can. But like Orthenon said, Nawal is only here to forge a blade.”

“But you know her by name. I don’t suppose you’d be able to…? No, no, we should not intercede until His Majesty returns. When that occurs, I will ask for your help perhaps.”

Jelaim shook his head, looking crestfallen. He glanced at his companions.

“Until then, we will have to teach without venom. Perhaps dyes? To make the recruits understand a single cut to themselves is deadly. We will work on it. But I will leave you to finish your meal, courteous Trey. And you, Lady Pathseeker, Mage Ulyse, and Mage Mirin.”

He bowed, and the two String Warriors behind him did likewise before retreating. Trey blinked at them. He was about to return to his cold bread when the [Mage] coughed. Ulyse sat down across from Trey and blinked at him.

“Ah, Trey. I meant to speak with you.”

Trey stared at Ulyse, mouth open, about to take a bite of his bread. Ulyse stared past his ear.

“I understand Lady Gazi is quite adept at teaching. But—perhaps her focus is narrow? If we had time, one of our members would aid with your instruction, Trey Atwood. This is what I meant to bring up, an offer for later as Jelaim did.”

He said that despite Gazi being right across from him. Trey hesitated.

“Er, thank you? But Gazi’s teaching me a lot. Quite…quite a lot. I don’t want to put you to any trouble.”

“Ah, but His Majesty, our [King] Flos, asked. And we have been too busy to follow his wishes. And a young [Mage] should have as much instruction as possible.”

Ulyse blinked slowly at something only he could see, shaking his head sadly.

“However, Parasol Stroll is much smaller than the Serpent Hunters, as befits a group of [Mages].”

“But no less deadly.”

Gazi cut in, smiling slightly at Ulyse. The [Mage] bowed back, and Mirin raised her parasol and unfolded it. Her bright crimson-and-indigo parasol spun as she bowed, an elaborate gesture for such a simple compliment.

“You honor us, Lady Pathseeker. Our numbers do indeed allow us to fight an army many times larger, but I fear it is still a weakness. Especially since we serve as His Majesty’s sole [Mages].”

Ulyse looked mournful. Then he took Trey’s bread and began to eat it, speaking to the young man and to the air again.

“We are stretched thin. Too thin, accompanying the armies in Hellios and Germina to provide magical aid and protection as well as to send basic [Message] spells. Reim lacks for [Mages]; all left in His Majesty’s slumber. And Reim never had as many [Mages] as some nations even in its glory. Only the one was famed throughout the world.”

Mirin nodded. She spoke quietly.

“Amerys. If she were here, His Majesty Flos would not need to fear enemy [Mages], at least. One wonders why she has remained in Wistram. Perhaps she truly has turned traitor. A strange thought, though.”

“Yes.”

The word came from Gazi. It was so heavy that Ulyse’s eyes focused on her, and both he and Mirin as well as Trey hesitated. All four of Gazi’s eyes had focused for a moment on Mirin. And her smile was gone.

At once, both [Mages] stood up. Ulyse nodded.

‘We’ve given offence.”

“It was not taken.”

Gazi smiled, but it was her fake smile that Trey had learned to spot. Ulyse was not fooled either.

“We leave you to your lunch, Trey. But one more thing. I think you still have a staff in your quarters? Mirin complains that it gives off an aura at night.”

Trey jumped.

“How did you—”

Ulyse nodded.

“It was a powerful staff you took from the [Geomancer]. A useful tool for magic, but not if you lack the spells or experience to control it. We can teach you how to use it to augment your powers. I will speak to Orthenon or Lady Gazi when we have time to teach you more spells. Until then, Trey Atwood.”

He bowed and turned. Both of Parasol Stroll headed away from their table. Trey stared at their backs, at his now-empty plate, and at Gazi.

“Are all of King Flos’ vassals a bit crazy like that, Gazi?”

The half-Gazer looked at Trey with all four eyes, and he shuddered. But then her eyes unfocused, and two rolled back in her head.

“They are all unique, Trey. As people are. I am no longer hungry.”

“Because of what Ulyse said about, er, Amerys? He’s a bit weird, but he doesn’t mean—”

“I don’t take offence from him, Trey. But what he said is true. Amerys was loyal. If she is not returned, it is concerning. We need her. And if she is an enemy, we must know.”

Gazi stood up. She walked away from the table, and a servant took her plate. She spoke without looking back at Trey.

“I will find you tomorrow to practice more spells. This time, bring the staff. You will learn to cast [Featherfall] with it.”

Trey gulped, but he didn’t dare protest. Then Gazi was gone too, and Trey had to return his plate and cup to the servants in the kitchen himself.

A room, no, a kingdom full of adults who all knew more than he did. All busy, all with their own interests, which were all in service to Flos. It was enough to make Trey lose his marbles sometimes. He wandered out of the banquet hall before someone else could find him. Trey hurried down the corridors of servants until he reached one of the unused wings of the palace reserved for guests, where far fewer people visited.

And then he was alone. No Gazi, none of Flos’ vassals. Just alone to do whatever he pleased. Which was what Trey had wanted, but somehow it left him empty.

“Swords with poison. Orthenon going to talk to the Quarass and a [Queen]. [Mages] with their spells. And what am I supposed to do? What about you, Teres? How useful are we to Flos except as…as entertainment? Inspiration for him?”

Trey scuffed along the corridor, scowling. He didn’t know how strong Jelaim was, but the Stitch-Man looked fit and agile, and his companion had made those curved daggers flash. He’d seen Orthenon and Gazi fight. And he could feel Ulyse and Mirin’s power radiating from them and their parasols. It made Trey feel like an ant. So, and because Gazi expected him to, he began to practice magic. Of all the things in this world, that alone was actually fun.

“[Light]. [Sand Arrow]. Combine it to…[Lightsand Arrow]!”

A ball of light appeared and then a spinning projectile of dust, of sand, forming into a blunt projectile. The two merged, and a flash of light shot down the hallway, busting into a shower of sand that would have blinded a foe. Trey grinned—he could perform that spell with his bare hands! He shot another [Lightsand Arrow].

It was a weak spell, but it could blind an opponent, and Gazi had taught him to aim perfectly with it. He hit a patch on the wall, a spot on the ceiling—and then saw the [Servant] with the dust cloth down the corridor glaring at him. She was cleaning, and he was getting the sand everywhere.

“Sorry. I’ll clean it up. [Sand Sprite].”

Trey instantly folded his hands behind his back. Meekly, he conjured the sand on the ground towards him. It flowed across the ground, leaving the stone hallway spotless once more. In front of Trey, a little golem of sand rose upwards. The [Servant] stopped glaring at Trey long enough to stare at the golem in puzzlement. Not because the golem itself was that unusual—although it was a fairly tricky spell, even temporarily—but because of how it looked.

The little figure looked like an odd, bobbleheaded figure like one of those cheap plastic figurines from Earth. It had a simple head with two big eyes, a crude body which didn’t match the oversized head, and a spear made of sand. It had nothing approaching a normal Human’s anatomy, or that of any other creature in this world.

Golems, spells, everything was based on a [Mage]’s image of the spell. Trey’s unique version of the miniature sand golems weren’t like anything other [Mages] could create. Mainly because his were ungainly and impractical, based on toy designs rather than form and function. Gazi had pronounced his sand sprites the ugliest, most useless creations in history. But she’d still praised him for learning the spell.

“Walk. And, uh, don’t get sand anywhere.”

Trey ushered the little sand sprite golem down the hallway away from the servant. It trundled in front of him, walking oddly, balancing its huge head. Trey let it walk towards a window and then couldn’t resist.

“Attack! Me, I guess?”

The little sand golem whirled around and nearly fell over. But it lunged at Trey with commendable speed and began whacking him with its little spear. He watched, tickled by the sensation. The sand sprite’s tiny spear was about as painful as, well, being hit by some soft sand. That was the flaw with sand golems, apparently. They were weak, easy to scatter, but held an advantage over other materials in that they were easy to conjure and maintain. Especially in Chandrar.

“Why can’t this be all I do?”

Trey mused as he squatted down and conjured another sand sprite to duel the first. This one had a sword and a shield, and the two little figures hit each other and charged, a mockery of real fighting. Yes, this was what Trey liked. There was no danger to this. He wasn’t hurting anyone. But he was casting magic and creating these little creatures out of his mind. Why couldn’t he just do this? Why did he need to be one of the two people Flos, the King of Destruction, wanted by his side? Why did Trey have to be his moral compass? He was only sixteen. He was only…

“Trey?”

The young man looked up. The two sand sprites turned into lumps of sand as he lost control of them. He saw a veiled girl, clutching a dagger at her side, approaching him. Nawalishifra stopped and stared at the young man crouching in front of the pile of sand.

Trey stood up hurriedly, wiping his hands and blowing the sand out of the open window. He smiled at Nawal. At least she was around his age. Well, a bit older. But at least she was like him a bit. And he rather fancied her. He wondered what Teres would think when she met Nawal. He hoped no one would get stabbed.



——



“Trey?”

Nawal saw the young man stand up. The little golem of sand he’d been watching collapsed. He flicked his fingers as he rose, and the sand blew upwards in a narrow funnel, out the window. She blinked at the sight. He was a [Mage]! She’d thought he was just some…well, just some servant. But he knew magic!

In her internal estimation of him, Trey rose another notch. Perhaps he really was someone special. The King’s Steward had spoken highly of him. But Nawal couldn’t help but remember the awkward stranger who’d come asking about her tent in the bazaar. And because she needed to, she approached Trey and spoke.

“I have been looking for you. You remember me? Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin? And you, you Trey Atwood, who pretended to be a humble person of a common master when you served the King of Destruction? A fine trick you played on me!”

She glared at him, hand on her dagger, but with less heat than she might have otherwise had. Trey backed up a step.

“Uh, Nawal! Sorry. I mean, it’s good to see you again. I didn’t expect to see you so soon—I mean, I didn’t ask you to make that vow! And His Majesty did pay your clan, right? He really wanted to have one of your magical swords.”

“A Naq-Alrama blade. Not a ‘magical sword’. And he paid, or else we would not be here. But what he paid for was our journey, not the blade itself. Not that I would doubt the King of Destruction, and you should not either, as his loyal servant.”

Nawal tossed her head, adjusting the veil so she wouldn’t inhale it. Trey winced.

“Right. Er, sorry. But it is good to see you.”

That surprised Nawal. She flushed and drew the veil more tightly around her face. Were all foreigners like Trey so forwards? She glared at him.

“We hardly know each other.”

“Um. Yeah. But we’re around the same age. You’re a bit older, but there’s few people my age in the castle. I was hoping to find you, actually. I could show you around? If you want me to. And I’d like you to meet my sister when she returns. You two might be friends.”

His sister? Friends? She was here to smith. But Trey was treating her as if they were two childhood friends from the same clan. She glared, but then decided to jump on this chance.

“I may meet your sister in the fullness of time, Trey Atwood. But I would take you up on your offer. I am new to the King of Destruction’s palace. And I have some questions for you.”

“Uh? Well, okay. I don’t know everything, but ask away. What did you want to know?”

Trey made a stupid face. Nawal rolled her eyes. She gestured around the bare corridor where a servant was cleaning the hall. It had no artwork, statues, or suits of armor. It was just…a hallway. In a palace, but it lacked even a carpet, and the windows weren’t made of glass.

“I have walked around the palace. And seen my quarters. The beds are of cotton. Tell me, do the beds in your room consist of cotton or silk? Or do you sleep on stone, as a lesser servant?”

“I’m not a servant.”

Trey frowned, contradicting what Orthenon had said.

“My bed? It’s cotton. Nice. Why do you ask?”

So maybe it wasn’t a slight. Nawal gestured around the palace.

“Simply because this is the home of the King of Destruction, is it not? His seat of power in Reim? His base from which he once conquered all of Chandrar and launched a campaign against the rest of the world?”

“…I guess. Why?”

Nawal stared at Trey. He gave her another stupid look. She stamped her foot.

“Well then! Why are his halls not filled with grand carpets hundreds of feet long? Why were only four servants sent to escort us to our quarters? Why are the beds not made of silk, even for his servants? Where is his fabled armory? The ten thousand swords of myth and legend that he won in a thousand battles? Surely some still remain. What of the artworks, the statues and wonders carried from around the world? Have all gone? And this palace—is this truly his home?”

Trey gaped at Nawal. He looked around and stared at her.

“Beds made of silk? Grand treasury? I’ve never heard of anything like that. Flos—er, His Majesty used to have a lot of stuff, it’s true. But it’s all gone now. And this is his palace. Why do you ask?”

Nawal shook her head. How could he not know? Even as a foreigner?

“It was said that the King of Destruction’s citadel was larger than one could imagine, that the spires on top of the towers reached beyond the clouds.”

“Really?”

“Of course! How do you not know of this? Every child is told the King of Destructions’ story, of his grandeur! I came here expecting to see his castle rising out of the ground for hundreds of miles. Instead, I found his city poor and his palace worthy of any [King], but not of him.”

“Yeah, well, he was asleep—or rather, he was depressed—for about twenty years. A lot of stuff went bad, or so Orthenon and Gazi said. And why does it matter? I thought a lot of Chandrar hated the King of Destruction. Most of the world does, apparently.”

Trey shrugged uncomfortably. Nawal stared at him. Then she turned.

“Why would that matter? He was still the King of Destruction. His myths still are told like tales of old. Hate him. Love him. But he was a legend worthy of Chandrar.”

She had grown up hearing his stories as a baby. Nawal stared at the plain servant, who was scrubbing at a stain on the wall. She shook her head again.

“Have you not heard one of the King of Destruction’s tales? Of his city of Reim, fairest in the world? How he turned it from a small kingdom no one knew into a world power? It was said that in those days when his strength was at its peak, the streets of his cities flowed with wealth. No one wanted for food or drink, and even the beggars were richer than some [Lords]. Every day, caravans of treasures taken from far-off lands would flow into his kingdom, and heroes and adventurers from across the world would journey here to seek his favor and fight in his name.”

She didn’t even mention the harems filled with [Princesses] and brides from across the world, or the stories of his rooms filled with the skulls of his enemies, or the dungeons in which his enemies were fated to live and suffer eternally. One would assume the virginal brides were all far older by this point and that those kept in the dungeons expired. And if there were rooms full of skeletons, a prudent visitor would never inquire about them.

“Really? He had all that?”

Trey looked at Nawal, his eyes slightly wide. She looked back and saw he didn’t know. That hurt part of her. She’d thought that at least that legend had spread about the world. Chandrar had little to boast of sometimes.

But while those from other nations might sometimes laugh at the poor folk of the desert, they would all stop laughing when they asked what Chandrar had wrought in the last hundred years. Because the answer was always the King of Destruction. For all he had been a terrible figure, he had made the world look to Chandrar with fear and awe.

“These are all things said of the King of Destruction’s city, Trey Atwood. These and more. I came here expecting to see some of that, even if it had faded. I saw so little I believed it to be an insult, a mirage. Is there anything like that? Anything you could show me?”

Nawal waited, hoping for Trey to say yes, to say that there was some legacy of that grandeur left. But he only bit his lip and hesitated. Part of the hope in Nawal’s chest, that youthful girl hearing stories around the campfire, died in her chest. She looked around the bare corridor, and her heart sank.

Was this all that remained? Or, worse, had the legends even been true to begin with?

“Sorry, Nawal. I don’t remember seeing anything like that. No caravans of treasure. No…well, Mars had an armory of magical swords. And there is gold in the treasury. But I don’t think there’s nearly as much as you think.”

Trey looked doubtful as he shook his head. Nawal stared at him, then closed her eyes.

“Then perhaps the King of Destruction’s legend is just that. A myth. A fable. I was a fool to think otherwise, naïve that I am. I thank you for telling me the truth, Trey Atwood.”

She turned. There, lounging against a wall, suddenly there and making both Nawal and Trey jump, was Gazi. The half-Gazer grinned as Nawal unsheathed her dagger and Trey yelped.

“So you are disappointed, Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin? Is this palace not enough, though you were offered the right of guests under my lord’s roof? Only say so now and I will answer your complaint.”

There she was, leaning against the wall. Neither Trey nor Nawal had seen her appear, nor had the servant cleaning the hall, who’d frozen, eyes wide as she stared at Lady Gazi Pathseeker. Gazi of Reim. Nawal’s breath grew tight in her chest. She had met Gazi once, but under an illusion spell. Now, up close, she was terrifying.

Gazi the Omniscient. That was one of her names. Another was Dunestalker. A terror of the night, an assassin who hunted other spies and traitors, anyone who would threaten her [King]. She, at least, was the same as her legends.

Oh, you might not think so if you just saw her. Gazi’s almost rusty, scale armor wasn’t impressive, and her claymore, for all it was brilliantly made, wasn’t obviously magical. But Nawal knew of steel, and she knew both armor and sword were not of steel. Or any metal she could identify at a glance, for that matter. The unique coloration of the armor told her it wasn’t Adamantine, and the claymore wasn’t mithril, but neither were they common metals either.

“I—I did not seek to give offence Lady Gazi. I only meant that I expected to see the wonders of His Majesty’s palace. Not—”

Nawal realized her little dagger was out, and she sheathed it quickly. Gazi smiled, but it was no welcoming smile. It was almost perfectly crafted to make Nawal shudder, a smile with malice hidden behind the curve of the lips. Trey was staring at Gazi, not with fear, but with confusion. He must be mad or he hadn’t heard of her stories either.

Gazi detached from the wall and walked around Nawal as the [Smith] froze in place. Her voice was soft, pleasant but for the metal buried beneath the gentle tone.

“Sometimes, legends grow until they are too big to fit reality, Nawalishifra Tannousin. Sometimes. And sometimes they fade. But hold your judgment until you have seen my lord in person once more. And when you walk through this palace, remember you see ruin. Two decades of despair. You and your clan have come to restore part of what was lost.”

“I—yes. Of course.”

“Good. You understand that. Then I welcome you still. But mind your words under this roof. And Trey?”

“Yes, Gazi?”

“Escort Nawal around the palace yourself. And keep her away from Orthenon. If he had heard what she had said, I doubt he would be so understanding.”

Gazi walked away from them. Quick, and despite her armor, silent. She turned a corner and was gone. Nawal remembered to breathe after that. That was Dunestalker. Silent. The King’s protector in the shadows. If you so much as breathed a word of dissent against the King of Destruction, she would cut you down. Oh, but Nawal had made a mistake! She looked at Trey, trying not to let her teeth chatter.

“D-do you think I gave offence?”

“To Gazi? No. No, that sounded like, uh, one of her friendly threats. But she is right. I don’t think Orthenon would like you saying that.”

Trey looked troubled. Nawal wanted to laugh.

“I would never speak so in his hearing!”

“Really? But you’re speaking to me—”

Nawal shook her head. Both she and Trey stepped out of the way of the servant as she came down the corridor. They began walking, if only so Nawal could put Gazi’s ominous words behind her. She spoke briskly to Trey, taking solace in his simple nature. He couldn’t be that important and be so ignorant, could he?

“A woman should not speak to a man in the open, as he is in the midst of his work. By the same token, a man should not approach a woman before seeking her husband or brother or father first. In private, things are less important, and between family of course exceptions exist. But if I spoke to the King’s Steward? I would cut off my ears rather than hear of such idiocy from another of my clan!”

“But you’re speaking to me, and I’m male.”

Nawal snorted. Trey looked very hurt, so she explained.

“You’re a foreigner. You don’t count. Besides, I must see the King of Destruction’s forges if I am to work there, and neither Hesseif nor Silmak is willing to go. Those fools, they wish only to gossip of the King of Destruction’s legends and look about like children. But I am here to forge. So take me there, Trey Atwood.”

“The forges?”

“Yes! Surely the King of Destruction has his need for [Blacksmiths], even if they do not forge magical works of art with each passing day, each greater than the last! Surely he needs nails and tools for his servants to work! He does have forges, does he not?”

Nawal threw up her hands. She was going to hit Trey if he said no. The young man hesitated.

“I’m sure he does. No, he definitely does! There’s at least one master smith—of course, I can take you right to him!”

That was a relief. Nawal nodded and bowed.

“Lead on, then.”

Trey hesitated. He looked around, forwards, back, and then sheepishly pointed back at the servant making her way down the hall, grumbling about sand and [Mages].

“Uh, let me ask where to go.”



——



It took Trey fifteen minutes and two more servants to locate the forges. They weren’t in the castle, but outside of the main palace, for reasons that soon became obvious. The instant he approached the open-air forge, Trey was overwhelmed by the heat emanating from one of the furnaces, and the air was filled with the ringing of hammers on metal. He approached timidly, but made his way to one of the [Smiths]—mainly because Nawal was pushing him the entire way.

“Excuse me? Is Blacksmith Daiton here? I’m showing a guest around the palace, and, uh—”

Trey shouted at a laboring apprentice. The young man looked up, saw that it was Trey, and his eyes widened.

“Sir Trey! Let me get Master Daiton at once!”

He sprang up and hurried over to an older man with grey hair and a growing bald spot on his head. The [Blacksmith] came over, and Trey was astounded to have his hand shaken at once as the friendly smith came over. He knew Trey was one of Flos’ personal followers, and he was overjoyed to have Trey here. When he learned Nawal was a fellow [Smith], his grin spread ear to ear.

“I am Daiton, master [Blacksmith] of His Majesty’s forges. You won’t find a better smith in all of Reim, or Germina or Hellios, I’d wager! There are plenty of low-level sorts as we’re in demand, but I’m the most high-level—and oldest—by far in the area. It’s a delight to have you, Sir Trey, and you, young lady. Are you an apprentice by chance? It’s rare to have a woman practicing the craft, but welcome! I’d be honored if you used my forge so long as it’s here.”

He addressed Nawal directly, but she refused to reply. She’d suddenly turned shy. Nawal half-hid herself behind Trey, keeping her eyes to the ground and peeking around the forge furtively. She whispered to Trey urgently into his ear.

“Tell him I thank him for the great compliment and that I hope to learn from his expertise. Tell him I am Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin.”

Trey half-turned, frowning at Nawal.

“Why don’t you say it? You’re right—”

He received a jab to the back and a glare. Oh, right. Daiton was a native Chandrarian and Nawal was female. The [Smith] girl hissed at Trey.

“Tell him!”

“Er, sorry Master Daiton. This is Nawal. Ow! Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin. She’s a [Blacksmith] come to forge a sword for His Majesty.”

“A smith of clan Tannousin?”

Daiton’s eyes widened, and several of the workers who’d heard looked around. Daiton immediately gave Nawal another look, but her eyes were lowered and her veil was tightly around her face.

“I’ve heard Tannousin smiths are some of the best in the deserts. And a female smith? I thought—no matter. You’re welcome twice over then, ah, Nawalish—Nawali—Nawal of Tannousin. Perhaps we could swap techniques, if you’d trade secrets.”

“She would accept that gladly, Master Daiton.”

Trey answered for Nawal. He looked around, listening to the whisper in his ear.

“Uh, Nawal wonders if this is your entire forge. Could we have a tour, maybe?”

Daiton nodded at once.

“Please, step inside. But mind the steel and sparks! This is indeed His Majesty’s forge. We have other buildings, but they’re disused, so this is the only active forge. Plenty of room, though! I’ve been here since His Majesty went into his slumber, and I waited right here until he woke up. I’d do it for another ten years without hesitation.”

He puffed his chest out, and Trey nodded appreciatively. Daiton gestured at the men working around the forge.

“I have eight workers I’m training. Journeymen [Blacksmiths], apprentices…I’m hoping to double that number when I can trust my senior workers by themselves. And have at least forty men working the forges around the hour in a few months! Even if Germina and Hellios start producing, there will be a great need for fresh weapons and armor, repairs, and that’s only for armies! Nails for houses, parts for barrels, and axles for wagons, tools for every sort of craft—”

“Arrowheads.”

One of the younger apprentices, younger than even Trey, groaned as he labored over an arrowhead. Daiton scowled at him.

“You want to be a [Fletcher]? Half of it’s making the arrowheads, Fedi! Don’t complain, you’ll level up! And once we have more craftsmen flowing back into the capital, you’ll stop having to make arrowheads all day long.”

“So your forge makes all the materials for the kingdom?”

Trey looked around, impressed. That was a lot of work! Daiton shook his head.

“Not all. But weapons? The vast majority. There’re two other [Smiths] in Reim at the moment, but they handle more mundane work. Myself? I make blades for His Majesty. Come and see. This is my signature work.”

He led Trey over to a barrel of swords. Daiton pulled one out, and Trey whistled as he saw a flash of steel. The smith handed the blade to Trey.

“Don’t worry, the edge isn’t sharpened yet. But this is a complete sword, one of many we’re making for the army. They’ve got old weapons, but new steel’s vital, and we’re working around the clock here to meet that demand. We’re hoping to have two hundred swords made and four times that many spears if we keep getting enough wood.”

“It’s so light!”

Trey had held Teres’ sword, but he was already impressed at how balanced and how light swords actually were. Nothing like the heavy things he’d imagined. Daiton laughed.

“Light and strong! You can flex that one and it won’t bend or snap! And look—this is what I meant by signature. See the steel? Give it a close look.”

Trey did. Then he saw what Daiton meant. There was a pattern on the blade! The steel wasn’t one, shiny uniform color. His eyes widened as he stared at the curvy lines running down the blade.

“Bugger me. Is that…I’ve seen this pattern before!”

Damascus steel. It looked exactly like it! Trey stared at the fine, wavy lines on the metal of the sword, almost like the patterns of wood grain or water running through the steel. Daiton puffed out his chest, delighted that Trey had noticed.

“Ah, sir! You have an eye for steel? You recognize the decoration? It’s pattern-steel. Forged from multiple types of steel, forge-welded and hammered together…all my swords are like that! Although you can only see the pattern on these ones.”

He indicated the swords in the barrel.

“These are obviously swords meant for officers. Note the etching and the hilt work? The rest of my apprentices can make swords to various degrees of quality, but we don’t bother etching those with acid.”

“Wow. That’s incredible!”

Each of the swords had its own unique pattern, and as Trey looked around, he saw more swords in the process of being made. And each one was made like that?

“It’s all pattern-welded, as I said. That’s my style. I take multiple layers of steel, forge them together, and create a blade out of the result. You see, it adds to the strength of the finished product, and it produces this lovely pattern. As steel forging goes, you’re hard-pressed to beat it.”

Daiton showed Trey what he meant. He’d taken several flat pieces of steel and melted the ends together. That turned into a ‘billet’, or a solid chunk of steel.

“See, the trick is you take these individual pieces and squeeze them together. Thus, weaker steels mix with the good if there are impurities or flaws, and the entire piece is stronger—and beautiful if you take the time to work it right. It’s a technique I use for every sword, and His Majesty himself has used some of my blades—although he breaks them with every other swing!”

Daiton laughed, and Trey, reminded of Flos’ insane strength, had to laugh too. He looked at Nawal, who was inspecting the sword Daiton had first shown Trey.

She didn’t look nearly as impressed as Trey thought. She peered at the edge and tapped the metal with her fingernail. She frowned closely at the pattern, then shook her head slightly. Daiton didn’t notice, but Trey walked back over.

“Isn’t it beautiful? Daiton’s a good smith, isn’t he?”

He desperately wanted Nawal to see something wonderful in Flos’ palace to impress her. But the veiled girl only shook her head.

“For art and an officer’s blade, I suppose? But it’s just a pattern. No more.”

“But that’s Damascus steel. It’s legendary, isn’t it? Really tough and really strong?”

Trey protested. That was Damascus, right? But Nawal was shaking her head.

“It’s not. I’ve seen steels with a similar pattern—you mean the steel that naturally has these little lines, don’t you? That’s a pure steel. Superior to this. This—this is just a pattern, made by the metal.”

Trey deflated slightly at Nawal’s matter-of-fact voice.

“Oh. But this is still a good sword, right?”

The look Nawal gave him was…well, it went straight through Trey. She leaned over and whispered to Trey as Daiton came back.

“Ask him to show you the ones he’s made. Not his apprentices.”

“What?”

“Anything the matter? I can show Miss Tannousin my process if she wishes.”

Daiton beamed at them. Trey gulped.

“Uh, Nawal was wondering if you had any of your blades she could see, Master Daiton.”

The man looked confused. He gestured to the sword Nawal was holding.

“Miss, uh, Nawal is holding it there.”

That was what Trey had thought. But Nawal gave both of them a surprised look. She eyed the blade again, closing one eye to stare at the metal. She tapped it and shook her head. She gestured at Trey, and he leaned over.

“What’s the matter? That’s the sword Daiton made.”

“But it’s impure. The steel isn’t that good. It’s a poor sword. Tell him that.”

“What? No it’s not. I can’t just—”

“Anything wrong?”

Daiton looked concerned. Trey glanced at his face and gestured helplessly at the blade.

“It’s, uh, Nawal is just studying the metal. She’s, uh, wondering about the quality. Of the metal?”

The smith nodded understandingly.

“It’s a fair question. We have to buy iron scrap—it used to be we got our shipments via caravan, but I suppose now we’ll have access to Hellios’ iron mines. That would certainly improve the quality of the iron. And our steel. Still, the pattern-welding accommodates even for poor stuff, so I’m confident we could do twice as many swords per week if…”

He stopped as Nawal finished inspecting the blade. She put it slowly in the barrel and turned to Trey.

“It’s a bad sword.”

“What?”

This time, Daiton heard. The smith’s jovial expression turned to shock and then anger in a second. Nawal glanced at him and then looked at Trey.

“Ask him how he made it.”

“He showed us, Nawal. With the metal and—”

Trey glanced fearfully at Daiton’s face. Nawal stared at one of the apprentices.

“And he takes the steel afterwards and has his apprentices forge it? Like that? Out in the open?”

She pointed. A journeyman was taking a solid billet of the pattern-welded steel and striking it with a hammer. The white-hot metal was being hammered out until it was longer and longer.

“Um—er, Master Daiton—”

Daiton scowled at Nawal. He addressed her directly.

“Yes. That’s my process, girl! What of it? Look, this is how I do my work!”

He strode over and interrupted the journeyman at his task. Daiton took the hammer and began pounding away at the metal, glaring daggers at Nawal the entire while. Trey blinked. The journeyman had been hammering at the metal, but as Daiton struck it, the anvil rang with the force of his blows. Everyone turned to look as the metal began to flatten ten times as fast under Daiton’s hammer as the other men.

It wasn’t just strength; Trey saw a man with huge arm muscles hitting a piece of metal an apprentice held with a huge mallet of a hammer and not moving it half as fast as Daiton. As the metal in front of Daiton cooled, Trey saw that he’d lengthened it a good foot. He picked it up with his tongs and put it back in the furnace to reheat. He strode back to Nawal, glaring at her.

“With my Skills, I can cut the time it takes to make a sword in half! Do you know of another [Blacksmith] who can work like that? I have over a dozen Skills that help me with shaping the metal quickly! [Steady Rhythm], [Malleable Metal], [Twicelasting Fires], [Blazing Forge]—”

He began listing off Skills on his sooty fingers. He was glaring now, and Trey was afraid Nawal’s sharp tongue had ruined Daiton’s goodwill. But Nawal was staring defiantly past Daiton’s shoulder, still not meeting his eyes. She looked at Trey.

“Tell Master Daiton that he has the Skills to move metal faster and with more ease. But that does not change what I said. His steel is poor steel. Poor quality of metal. And his swords are likewise flawed.”

The forge suddenly went silent. Trey hadn’t realized everyone was listening. Now, the hammers went still, and everyone looked at Nawal. She refused to meet anyone’s gaze but Trey’s. Daiton rumbled ominously.

“That is—I’ve had fellow [Smiths] insult my work before, but never to my face. And never in my own forge! You claim my work is flawed, girl? My steel is poor? Try one of my swords! And look at me! Do you have a problem with my skills and experience?”

Nawal refused to meet Daiton’s eyes. She looked deliberately at Trey.

“Trey Atwood. Deliver a message to Master Daiton. Tell him he should melt down his hammer and use it for scrap metal where it would do some good. Or cut off his hands and live with the goats, old fool that he is for thinking he produces fine craftsmanship. I have seen better swords rusting in the sands, young though I am. I spit on the idea that he is a master smith worthy of working in the King of Destruction’s forges!”

Her voice rang in the silence. Trey’s mouth hung open in silence. So did half the men in the shop. The other half straightened, and the look in their eyes was murderous. Trey glanced up at Daiton and flinched at the look in the older smith’s eyes. He spread his hands and looked around nervously.

“Uh, what I think she meant to say was—”



——



Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin had a reputation. Believe it or not, she was known to have something of a sharp tongue. Something of an attitude. Woman or not, her blistering remarks and insults had been known to cut more than one manhood down to size. That was why the elders and headman of her tribe had feared to send her out. Not just because she might give offence as a woman, but because her tongue might get her into trouble.

Actually, that had been true both of Nawal and her brother, Allaif. Where his over-exaggerated promises and sometimes outright lies and flattery had gotten the clan into trouble, Nawal’s remarks had been just as disastrous. But Bezha, Silmak, and Hesseif had all known Nawal since she was a child, and it had been hoped they would be enough to rein her in.

But no one had expected her to create this much of a disaster on the first day. Nawal stood, not exactly staring past Bezha, as the older woman screamed at her outside of the forge. All the [Smiths] in the King of Destruction’s employ were engaged with a glaring contest with the Tannousin folk, and the forge had gone to a standstill.

“Nawal, you fool, you imbecile! Did we not say to mind your tongue? Instead, you have given offence at the first sign! And now a bet?”

“I simply said that I could forge a better blade than the so-called Master Daiton could within the span of a day. I spoke no lies. He was the one who challenged me to prove my words, and so I will.”

Nawal tossed her head. She ducked as Bezha took a swing at her face.

“You idiot! You sharp-tongued cow of a hornet, you! Why say that? Why challenge the King of Destruction’s personal smith? What difference is a bit of skill?”

Nawal caught the second slap headed towards her face. She spoke sharply.

“It is not just skill, Bezha! It is the quality of the metal itself! Or did you not see and test the swords? Look, you fool with your eyes only towards me!”

She pointed. Both she and Bezha stared around the forge. They stared at the angry [Blacksmiths], at the metal chunks and billets of steel waiting to be hammered out, and at the swords in progress.

After Nawal’s insult, Daiton had been on the verge of throwing her and Trey out of the forge. Until she’d made her claim. Then he’d lost his temper for real and demanded she bring her clan. Which she’d done. All thirty-two of them were gathered outside the forge, and Hesseif and Silmak were inspecting the swords that Daiton had so proudly shown Trey, doing the same inspection of the metal.

They were also eying the crucible steel, the round mounds of steel that Daiton and his apprentices forged from raw iron. Nawal was familiar with the process, and she could see the raw metal sitting, waiting to be pounded into billets. But it was bad metal. Silmak approached and handed Bezha one of the crucibles, her face changed to a look of dismay.

Crucibles. Trey, who was standing and watching from the side, looking very nervous, had to have what they were explained by one of Daiton’s apprentices. Nawal of course knew instantly. Crucibles were the containers in which you smelted metals, transforming them like in the case of iron, into steel.

In this case, Daiton used little pots, about the size of two hands in height, which he’d fill with cast iron on the bottom, pure iron and a bit of charcoal higher up. Then he’d seal the pot to make it airtight and heat it up hot in a smelter. If done right, you’d get a puck of steel, which was actual steel as opposed to weaker iron.

That in itself was worthy of praise—not every [Blacksmith] could refine steel so well. And as Daiton shouted, it was an insult to think his steel was inferior to any other metal.

“It’s beautiful metal! You look at this, Sir Trey! Tell that girl, who won’t even look me in the eye, that this is quality metal! See how it’s flawless?”

He showed Trey the puck of metal, and Trey had to agree. The steel wasn’t smooth, but it looked like one solid bit of metal. But that was because he was an amateur. Bezha was staring at the puck and then the bar of flattened steel that one of the apprentices had made out of it.

“The grain of the metal is so large. And they made it from this? I can see the slag on the bottom. Did they remove the impurity?”

“No. Look. This is the bar one of the apprentices was using.”

Silmak handed Bezha one of the straightened pieces of metal, a long rectangle of steel. It was fairly straight and ready to be transformed, Nawal could give it that. But Bezha recoiled as she saw the soot and griminess of the metal.

“That’s how city smiths do their work?”

“In open air forges, no less. If they were making something simple, I could understand. But blades?”

Silmak shook his head. He looked at the sword Hesseif was inspecting and then raised his voice as he addressed the rest of his clan.

“Nawalishifra is right. A Tannousin [Blacksmith] would never work so. The steel is inferior; a blacksmith of our clan could make a superior sword.”

A rumble went through the listening smiths. The Tannousin clan members looked at each other, nodding silently in agreement. Daiton’s face purpled, but Trey seized his arm.

“Master Daiton! They’re guests of His Majesty!”

“Guests or not, I won’t have some tribe—even Tannousin—stride into my forge and insult me! That girl claims she can make a better sword? Prove it or get out and never sully my forge again!”

He pointed at Nawal. All eyes went to her. Bezha closed hers, but didn’t argue as Silmak and Hesseif looked at Nawal.

“Nawal. Can you forge a sword today?”

“If you prepare my space, I will.”

Silmak nodded. He turned and clapped his hands.

“Clear the space. We need brooms. Water.”

“They can use one of our spaces. Listen up, lads! This is a contest! These outsiders think our blades are pig iron crap! Well, I’ve a mind to forge a sword and shove it down their throats!”

Daiton turned and roared at his apprentices, who let out a hoarse cheer. They rushed into the forge, clearing a spot as they glared at the Tannousin. The clan split the forge down the center as Daiton’s people evacuated, and to Trey’s astonishment, began clearing everything out of the way!

Tools, the other anvils, even the ground. A broom appeared and then a bucket of water. The clan washed the floor as they carted out all of the objects on their side of the room. Daiton turned red again, but he whirled around as the Tannousin clan emptied the forge of everything.

They left a single anvil in the large space they’d cleared. But they didn’t bother filling the forge with charcoal, and instead, Silmak, their leader, produced some chalk and began drawing on the floor! He drew a huge circle around the anvil as Hesseif and three other men returned, lugging a huge box made of…stone?

Yes, it was a stone box which they set on a stand of stone at chest height. Trey peeked inside and saw the interior of the box was filled with glowing runes. His eyes stung, and he wiped them. Then he realized the circle that Silmak was drawing was filled with the same runes.

“Excuse me, what are you doing?”

“Trey Atwood. I am preparing Nawalishifra’s forging space. Please, do not interfere with the circle. I would tell you of its nature, but these are Tannousin secrets, and I ask you to look away.”

Reluctantly, Trey did. Silmak finished drawing on the stone floor of Daiton’s shop with the chalk and clapped his hands. The circle blazed with magical light, and Daiton swore.

“Magic? In my shop? Are you trying to enchant that anvil? It doesn’t matter if the anvil or the hammer’s enchanted! With my Skills—”

“We are not enchanting anything. We are preparing a space. The metal decides the quality of the sword. Not the tools used.”

Nawal snapped at Daiton, although she had to glare at Trey to do it. The smith turned purple again, but he turned and stalked off, leaving Silmak to finish preparing. He shouted at his apprentices.

“Get me some of our unfinished swords! Yes, those billets! We’ll finish our swords, and I’ll do some myself! Where’s my hammer gone?”

Trey could see Daiton’s forge busy at work while the master blacksmith scowled at the Tannousin clan. And the young man could tell that the forge was filled with experts, no matter what Nawal said. The forging of the swords went something like this as far as he could tell: the metal was first heated in one of the huge forges, which were filled with coals or charcoal or something, a blazing heat that was making him sweat even from where he was standing.

Once the metal was glowing with heat—not just red, but orange—the smith would take it over to the anvil with some tongs where he would instantly begin striking the metal with a hammer. Or even just holding it while another man lifted a huge sledgehammer of a tool and struck it, flattening it out.

The process was meant to hammer the metal out, turn it from the lumps of steel into something resembling a sword. Trey could see how hard it was. Even when it was hot, the metal was tough, and a smith had to be careful to hit it hard enough to make the steel deform and move, but not so hard as to split the metal or bend it in the wrong direction. It would take weeks or maybe months for some of the apprentices to hammer the steel from a crucible cast into a sword, but Daiton could do the work faster. He showed Trey, turning his back on the Tannousin clan members as they continued to set up.

“Look at that! Without a Skill, you’d spend hours doing what I just did. That’s why my forge can produce so quickly. I can handle the first shaping of metal, and my apprentices can take care of the details. And if I need to, I can take a sword from the raw steel to the finished blade myself! What’s wrong with my method? My steel?”

“I don’t know, Master Daiton. Nawal’s, uh, prickly. But she is good, I think. It’s just—”

A voice interrupted them. Trey turned. Nawal was standing behind him. She was still veiled, and her clothes still covered most of her body, but she’d rolled up her sleeves. Her bare arms had muscle, and she held a hammer in one hand. Both Daiton and Trey stared at the odd sight. But Nawal’s voice was cold.

“Impure. Your steel is impure, and your forge only builds in more impurity, for all you clean away by striking it. We will show you true blacksmithing now. But we must have steel to do it. All we have brought is Naq-Alrama steel.”

“So. You’re ready with your little magic circle? Your forge isn’t even hot.”

Daiton pointed at the furnace, which was indeed flameless. Nawal stared at Trey.

“We have our own heat. Steel. Have you any of quality?”

“I have pucks and bars. All ready to be processed. Take your pick of my inferior steel and make me a better blade out of it!”

Daiton growled. Nawal looked at the bars of steel he’d indicated. She went over to some, grabbed one, discarded it, found another, tapped it against the table, listened, shook her head, and found another. It took her five minutes before she came back with eight bars of steel. Daiton’s eyes bulged.

“What are you doing with that? Do you plan on robbing me too?”

Nawal glared at Trey, who glared back. He was getting sick of being the supposed middleman!

“We steal nothing. But we need enough steel. This will do, I suppose. We must fold the steel.”

“What? It’s been folded! That’s good steel right there! We hammered it out of the pucks!”

Nawal gave Daiton a scornful glance before she caught herself.

“You hammered it into shape. But you did not fold it. Did you bend the metal on itself? How many times did you fold it, then? Ten times? Twenty? Sixty?”

“Sixty—you’d get nothing left if you folded steel that many times!”

“Nothing but pure steel.”

Nawal turned. Trey thought Daiton would tear out the rest of his hair, then. He threw up his hands, red-faced, furious.

“Fine! Take the steel! But you’d better have a sword by sundown or I will see you pay for all the steel you’ve wasted! Show me how fast you can make a sword!”

He snatched his hammer and strode away, his apprentices scattering in front of him. Trey found Daiton swearing and striking his hammer on the other side of the shop. The [Blacksmith] turned to him, glaring.

“They’ll never do it. A sword on top of folding all that metal? Never. That girl understands something of the craft, but she’s arrogant by far! I’ll make her tribe pay for all the metal they used, His Majesty’s orders or not.”

Trey feared this would come to Flos’ attention, but he didn’t know how to stop it. And part of him was curious to see if Nawal could back up her big words. He looked back at Nawal, who was laying the metal flat and speaking with Silmak, who was still busy with his magic circle.

“Uh, Master Daiton, what did you mean by folding steel?”

“Oh, that? She was talking about a way to purify the metal. That’s what gets me so angry. The girl, that Nawal’s right that our steel isn’t as pure as it can be. It’s pretty damn strong! But if you took it, heated it, and folded it in on itself, you’d hammer out more of the…eh, what do you call it?”

“Impurity?”

“Yes, that. All the crap in the metal you get from forging it. That’s what folding steel is. It’s an advanced trick not every [Blacksmith] knows about. I shouldn’t be surprised the damn Tannousin clan knows the way of it, though. And the concept’s simple. You fold the steel over. Hit it and hit it until it’s a solid block again. You’re always losing steel that way, you see? The heating and reheating while you strike it—it’s purifying the metal, leaving you with less, but better stuff. But doing it as many times as they claim you need to? They’d waste enough material to make nine swords just to make one! And the effort required!”

Trey glanced at Nawal, then at the sky. The sun was already beginning its decline from the apex in the sky.

“She’s got until sundown to forge the sword?”

“So she claims. That’s, what, eight hours at most? Impossible. Impossible to do. If she has a Skill, she could move the metal fast. But folding the steel and making a sword? In a day? I can make swords this quick because I have a team that takes shifts. By herself, with a Skill? She’d have to take at least two days, probably closer to four or five to do a proper job of it. And she’s not more than a girl. Blacksmithing is hard work on the body!”

Daiton raised his voice. Some of his apprentices were nodding. He turned, perhaps to shout that at the Tannousins. That was when Silmak, standing in the center of the circle he’d drawn, raised his hands up and then clapped them together.

The sound was soft. But the blast of air that burst from the circle was anything but. The sound was like a gunshot of noise, and Trey shielded his face as grit and dust blew throughout the forge. Daiton coughed, swearing.

“What in the blazes was—”

He half-charged Silmak, who was standing in the large circle he’d drawn around the anvil and that stone block, and then staggered as he crossed the boundary of the circle. Trey saw him gasping wordlessly, then stumble out.

“Master Daiton!”

He jumped forwards, afraid the smith had had a stroke or heart attack. But as Trey passed into the magical circle, he felt it too. He couldn’t breathe! Inside the circle there was no air! No oxygen, nothing. A void. Trey clawed at his throat and then stumbled backwards. His lungs reinflated with air, and he gasped a shuddering breath.

“What was—what is—”

He coughed and then saw Silmak step out of the circle. The spellcaster took a long gulp of air and then breathed out slowly.

“The circle is finished. The furnace will burn. My part is done. All that remains is to let the smith forge.”

He stepped away, and Nawal moved forwards. She was holding the bars of metal she’d taken, and she placed them on the anvil before stepping out of the circle to grab her hammer. She took a deep breath before she entered and exited the circle. Trey stared.

“No air?”

Daiton was still gasping for breath. Silmak was concentrating on the stone box now, so the woman, Bezha, spoke. To Trey, again.

“Air burns the metal and adds impurity as you forge. Everyone knows that. That’s part of how the black metal, known as scaling, is produced.”

She pointed to the flakes of black metal lying on the ground. Bezha bent and picked some up to show Trey. It looked like burnt metal, which it was.

“This is the impurity in metal that smiths hammer out. Not just impurity though; the metal itself is always burning thanks to the heat and air. So it hardens.”

She nodded at Daiton’s forge. Trey turned and saw it was true.

As the metal in the forges grew red hot, it also developed that…scaling. Like black spots on the metal as it cooled. It flaked off as the apprentices struck the metal, falling to the ground like ash. Daiton scowled.

“We brush our metal clean of scaling if it gets too much, but it’s an inevitability. So your fancy trick prevents that. So what? You can’t breathe in there. And if there’s no air, there’s no fire!”

He pointed a trembling finger at the magic circle. Trey understood. So the circle was meant to prevent the metal being affected by the air? That was an ingenious solution. But Daiton was right. Basic chemistry meant that no oxygen meant no fire. But then he saw Silmak point at the stone box. The runes inside began to glow, and Trey felt something else blast outwards.

Heat. The stone box was filled with a blazing heat, so much that the air rippled and all the sweat on Trey and Daiton’s bodies dried in an instant. They recoiled and moved out of the way as Silmak, gloves on now, placed two blocks of stone in front of the box, sealing it off. Then the heat wasn’t so bad, but Trey could still feel it coming from the box, as hot, no, hotter than the furnaces.

Bezha smiled mockingly at Trey and Daiton.

“You seek heat, young foreigner? There it is. That is a rune furnace. Silmak’s power fuels it, as does all the magic of the Tannousin Clan. We provide the heat to melt metal.”

“Shaman magic.”

Daiton backed away from the box distrustfully. But now he was staring at Nawal. He’d said she had no heat to melt her metal, but now she did. And the furnace was inside the void of air.

“So the metal gets hot enough to move. And the anvil’s inside the circle, so that means you can heat it and shape it without air touching it. Without getting that, uh, impurity. Scaling.”

Trey looked at Bezha. The woman nodded.

“And the rest will come out as the metal folds. See? It begins.”

Nawal had stepped into the circle again. She opened the rune furnace and put in one of the bars of metal. Trey caught another glimpse of the inside of the box. It was bright. There was no flame, but the rune inside was glowing white, and the small enclosure was built so that the heat only had one way to flow out—and as Nawal placed a brick in front of it, all the openings were sealed.

Daiton shook his head as Nawal stepped outside again and took another deep breath.

“I suppose that’s one way of doing it. But she still can’t breathe. Are you telling me she’ll be taking that thing out and pounding on it without taking so much as a breath? In that clothing? In that heat?”

“Yes.”

Bezha looked at Trey and Daiton. They both stared at her. Nawal was standing outside the circle, breathing deeply and heavily. Daiton stared at her.

“Madness. Unless she’s got a hammer long enough to let her work outside of that circle, she’ll never do it. And I’ve spent long enough staring at cheap tricks! Where’s my sword blank?”

He stomped past Trey to his side of the forge and snatched up his hammer. Trey saw him take out an unfinished sword, a long bar of metal, and begin hammering hard on it. The metal moved at once, and Trey watched as Daiton narrowed one side, forming a handle of sorts. But then he turned back because Nawal had reentered the circle.

The bar of metal glowed as she took it out. The veiled young woman made no sound as she walked back to the anvil, the glowing metal in hand. Her hammer was bright. Polished. And Trey saw the ground, the tongs, even the anvil’s surface itself had been cleaned.

The metal was placed on the surface of the anvil. Nawal raised her hammer. And she brought it down. Her lips were closed. And she wasn’t breathing. But the first strike of her hammer made the anvil and metal thunder in silence. The only sound was the thump through the ground itself. Yet her hammer rose up and down in a single, perfect motion.

It was a simple strike, but the second fell as soon as the hammer rose. And the third hit the metal. Again. Faster. Faster.

The sound was deep without the air to transmit it. A tang of metal on metal, vibrating through the earth on Nawal’s side of the forge. But she was silent. In fact, Trey realized she’d stopped speaking after the circle had been drawn. He stared at her.

Nawal’s eyes were focused on the bright metal beneath her. Her hammer rose and fell. One strike per second. And then two. Heavy blows; Trey could see the weight of each strike make the metal want to jump, but her other hand held the metal still. Nawal kept striking the metal. And Trey realized. She was in the circle. She wasn’t breathing.

“Dead gods. Is that girl actually doing it?”

Daiton had looked up. He was staring at Nawal. She was still there, hammering on the metal. For five seconds. Ten. Then twenty. Forty. Trey counted. On the forty-fourth second, Nawal moved. She let go of the cooling metal and walked out of the circle. He heard a sharp intake of breath. Nawal walked around the edge of the magic circle once, breathing slowly, deeply. Then she took a breath as she entered the circle. She seized both the tongs and hammer and pounded on the metal.

This time, she didn’t last the entire time. But that was because the metal had turned from yellow to orange to a cherry red. Before it cooled, Nawal had strode back towards the rune forge and returned the metal to the container. Then she walked back to the anvil. And swept it with a cloth. A miniscule amount of scaling fell to the ground. Nawal did the same to her hammer, cleaning it of soot. And then she stepped out of the circle. She walked it once and then returned to the center.

The metal was hot. Nawal took it back out. And her hammer struck the metal. Once, twice, three times. So fast that Trey saw her arm blur as the hammer she held rose and fell. Again and again. And she did not breathe.

Ten seconds. Twenty. Thirty. Forty. Forty-one. Forty-two. Forty-three. Forty-four—and Nawal walked towards the forge. She replaced the metal to heat and walked outside of the circle. She breathed then, a pained gasp for air. This time, her cycle around the circle was slower. But she’d timed it so that when she returned, the metal was ready to be struck again. She took up the hammer and worked. In a void, without a sound.

Trey had forgotten there was anyone else in the forge. He only turned his head when he heard one of the apprentices utter a word. Daiton’s face was frozen with shock. The old [Smith] stared as Nawal walked out of the circle and took another precious breath of air. He looked away as if tearing himself from the sight and met Trey’s eyes.

“She’s going to burn out. That kind of pace? Without taking a breath?”

But he said nothing of her hammer work. Because there was nothing to say. Nawal struck the metal as fast—no, faster than he did. Like a machine, each blow on the center. And the metal moved as quickly for her as it did for him. As she’d said, she was folding the first bar of steel. Folding and folding it again, producing the black scaling, the impurity which she swept out of the circle.

“She can’t do that for more than a few more tries. Surely. A smith needs air! That girl will hurt herself! You—do you let her work like this all the time?”

Daiton rounded on Bezha. The woman was watching Nawal. All the Tannousin clan were. Some were sitting, others standing. But their eyes were on Nawal as she slowly made a circuit of the magical circle and stepped back in. Metal rang.

“She has a Skill. More importantly, the Tannousin smiths are trained to hold their breaths at a young age. If they do not gain this Skill among others, they are not meant to be smiths. This is a pattern Nawali has learned since she could hold a hammer. Look. She has the pattern set now.”

Bezha replied calmly to Trey. She pointed. And Trey saw Bezha was right. Nawal was tracing a pattern in the ground. He saw how each step, each phase was predetermined.

Hammer the metal for exactly forty-four seconds. Return it to the runic box to heat. Step outside the circle and breathe. Return to the circle, wipe her hammer and anvil once, reclaim the metal. Hammer it again, return to the furnace. Breathe.

It was a pattern. And Nawal kept to it, though she had to work without air. Sweat was already running down her forehead, dripping down her veil. Trey, watching, realized the vacuum must not be completely devoid of air. Just oxygen? Then he noticed how much she was sweating.

“Her clothes.”

They were thick. And that veil couldn’t have helped either. Trey looked around. Bezha’s eyes were steady.

“That is how she must dress.”

“In the forge? But it’s so hot. And the air—can’t she take a break?”

“When she is done, she will rest. Now she forges. This is a competition, is it not? Where is Smith Daiton’s sword?”

Bezha looked at Daiton. The [Blacksmith] looked down and realized his metal had gone cold. He cursed, shoving it back in the furnace.

“That girl’s still folding the steel. This isn’t even the first step if she wants to use all eight bars and make a sword! I’m halfway done—I just have to beat out the shape. This is no fair match.”

But he’d lost some of his confidence in saying it. Bezha just turned her attention back to Nawal. And the girl traced the time in her slow steps. She took the metal, already reduced, out of the runic furnace. Trey saw her take the second bar of metal and place it in the furnace. Nawal began to hammer the first one, lengthening it, turning it into a flat bar of metal. The first of many she’d turn into a solid piece. Into a sword.

Her hammer flashed. She worked in silence, without air. Then she began to speed up.



——



This is how Bealt made a horseshoe. He took a bar of metal, heated it in his furnace until it was bright yellow, and then took it to his anvil. There he placed it against the round horn of the anvil and raised his hammer.

One, two, three! Bealt’s hammer flashed down, and the metal rang. He hammered a bow into the horseshoe. Then, he flipped it and used the round horn of the anvil to bend the rest of the horseshoe into shape.

“So that’s what that pointy thing is for!”

Erin laughed in delight. The Gnoll [Farrier] grinned. From the straight bar of metal, he’d made a ‘U’ shape, almost a horseshoe already! He grinned, and Erin thought he would continue hammering. But the metal was already red, cooling so quickly she couldn’t believe it. So Bealt placed it flat on the hammer and grabbed the odd spike.

“What’s that for?”

“Fullering. That’s what it’s called, Miss. Making holes in the horseshoe, so it can be nailed to the hoof. See the little groove? It’s so the nail heads don’t stick out when hammered in. See? Watch.”

Bealt placed the spike so its narrow tip was on top of the horseshoe’s center. Then he gave it a few powerful blows. Erin saw he’d punched a hole through the metal.

“Oh! I get it!”

So that was how you made holes in a horseshoe? Bealt made two more before the metal had cooled even further. He lifted it.

“Too cold to work. I’d stress the metal. So into the furnace it goes. See?”

He tossed the horseshoe back in, rearranging it so the burning charcoal heated the horseshoe evenly. Erin nodded.

“I get it. But you have to be quick, don’t you?”

Bealt flashed her a pleased grin.

“Ah, well, it depends on the metal. Some things cool quicker than others, but yes! Speed is a virtue, Miss Solstice! Sure, you can take your sweet time, but that’s for delicate stuff. Not [Farrier]’s work! If a horse has thrown a shoe on the road or in a race and the [Messenger] needs to be gone or the [Farmer] at work by sunrise, the [Farrier] must be done!”

He’d raised his voice again. Erin could tell both Pelt and Maughin were listening. They could hardly have missed how she was sitting in Bealt’s forge, listening to him talk about his craft. And there was something impressive in how fast the [Farrier] made his horseshoe.

It took him two heatings in the forge, and the second one was only to pound the rest of the horseshoe into shape. Erin watched as the [Farrier] took the spike and hammered more holes along the horseshoe’s rim as it cooled.

“And…done! A horseshoe, like many you’ve seen no doubt. If you check a shod horse in any part of the world, this is what you’ll see. Nothing to it.”

Bealt presented the horseshoe to Erin after it had cooled. She ran her fingers across the still-warm metal, marveling at how fast he’d worked. She stared at the bar of metal he’d used and shook her head.

“Just like that! It’s amazing!”

“You’re too kind. But as I said, that’s [Farrier] work for you. Proper speed, proper quality. I can have your knife done, although it won’t be this quick. Horseshoes are simple.”

“But you make it look so…what level are you? Really high? I’d never be able to get the rod-thing to bend like that! This is so cool!”

Erin was genuinely excited. There was something about watching a piece of metal bend like that with only a hammer to shape it that no hydraulic press could match. But she must have raised her voice a bit too loudly, because a loud snort came from the forge next to them.

“That’s enough to make a Human excited? I suppose you’ve never seen a master working, then, brat.”

Pelt glared over the top of his anvil at Erin and Bealt. The Gnoll raised his eyebrows, but Erin stuck her tongue out at Pelt.

“Bleh. Big talk for a guy who can’t finish his metal-thing.”

She pointed at the piece of metal Pelt was working on. The Dwarf’s eye twitched. He picked up the metal and tossed it onto the ground. His apprentice scrambled after it, but Pelt snatched up a bar of metal like the one Bealt had used. He inspected it for a moment, then looked at Erin with a sneer in his face and voice.

“You call that expert work? You can make a horseshoe in a single heat. Watch.”

So saying, he stuck the metal in the furnace. There were a few minutes of awkward staring in which Erin folded her arms and Bealt, chuckling, heated up another piece of metal himself. But then Pelt’s metal was hot. He pulled it out and called to Erin.

“Watch.”

He placed it on the anvil as Erin rolled her eyes. Pelt raised his hammer, angled the metal to make the bend like Bealt had done. And his hammer moved. Erin saw it strike once, twice, and suddenly the metal was bent into a U-shape!

The Dwarf flipped it around the horn of the anvil, and his hammer blurred. Strike, strike, strike! The clanging of metal was a quick melody of beats, over in a second. He held up a horseshoe, the twin of the one that the [Farrier] had just made, and held out a palm.

“Fuller.”

His Drake apprentice scrambled to get it to him. Pelt angled the spike and drove in the holes into the horseshoe with a single blow each time. It was still glowing red, still cooling when he held up the horseshoe.

“Done.”

Erin gaped. It was a proper jaw-drop. Pelt had done it! In half the time it had taken Bealt! The [Farrier] looked up from his second horseshoe and stared at the horseshoe the Dwarf had made as he placed it on his anvil. He straightened and called out to Pelt.

“Fancy. And fancy-quick, sir. But can you do that twice? I’ve sixty horseshoes to make, and I dare say that was a skillful trick you pulled off, but can you swear you’ll only heat once when doing work like this? My horseshoes always fit with no mistakes to their curve.”

He gestured to his first horseshoe. Now Erin saw that Maughin was looking over, again obviously eavesdropping with his detached head. And some of the other smiths behind Bealt were listening as he called out to Pelt.

“A [Farrier] can take one of my shoes and fit it to any horse’s hooves wherever they may be. And I do that work in two heats. I could do it in one, but then mine might not be perfect. Would you wager you could cast thirty shoes in one heat and have them all come out perfect?”

Pelt had a sneer that could out sneer even Pisces. The Dwarf folded his arms.

“On my hammer, I could make you a hundred horseshoes and not one would be different from the other! Don’t mistake me, boy. I’ve made more horseshoes than you’ve dreamed of. I could make them in my sleep. If you want to test that, buy me drinks for the night and I’ll forge you thirty horseshoes as perfect as you like.”

Erin glanced at Bealt. The Gnoll smith was still for a second. Then he grinned that wide, slightly scary Gnoll smile with teeth. It didn’t always mean they were happy to see you.

“Drinks, then. My horseshoes made in two heats each, yours the one. Thirty horseshoes apiece, and if either Gnoll or Dwarf slips up, they pay for the other’s night. And if you can make thirty perfect, I’ll pay your drinks until you stop.”

Erin held her breath, but Pelt spat on the ground.

“Done!”

He reached for his hammer, but a rumbling voice interrupted him. Maughin walked out of his forge, huge hammer in hand, fitting his head on his shoulders. He stared at both Pelt and Bealt with a challenge in his eyes.

“Make it twenty each. Twenty perfect, and the fastest done is the winner if no one else errs.”

Bealt glanced up, and Pelt turned his head.

“You think you can keep up, Maughin?”

“I wouldn’t offer to pay if I wasn’t sure. And the winner drinks in Tails and Scales. Is that enough of a wager for you, Pelt?”

The Dwarf licked his lips. His eyes lit up. Erin looked from smith to smith. Maughin’s apprentices crowded around behind him, and some other smiths abandoned their work at their forges to watch.

Suddenly, it was a competition. Erin cleared her throat, and the smiths broke off their staring contest to look at her.

“Uh, well, I suppose if we’re doing this, it's twenty horseshoes? And you’ve all got your own forges? So…ready, set, go?”

Instantly, the three broke up. Bealt swung himself back to his ready forge and tossed another piece of metal into the furnace, discarding his half-finished horseshoe for later. Maughin hurried over to his furnaces as his apprentices cleared the space of their work, grabbing metal for him to use. Pelt tore back into his forge, shouting at his Drake apprentice for his metal. And Erin watched.

What skill, what speed! Okay, it was just horseshoes, but it was still fascinating to watch! Erin saw other smiths and apprentices gather, and a few of the Street Runners and other people walking on the ninth floor gathered to see as well. Because even if they were just horseshoes, it was fascinating to see a master make them.

And how they did it! Maughin was the first Erin focused on. The giant Dullahan was as strong as he looked. He only needed to hit a piece of metal once to make it bend. In fact, he was so strong that Erin saw he had to pace himself not to wreck the shape of the horseshoe. He had to focus to get the right bend in place, let alone angle the fuller to poke the holes in the horseshoes. But the Dullahan was crafty and had a strategy to make up for his lack of speed.

He was using all the forges in his shop! Maughin had three in the space he’d rented, and he walked from one to the other. The instant one of his horseshoes was at the right temperature, he took it out, hammered it, and as it cooled, stuck it back into the forge to be heated again. But was that enough?

Erin looked at Bealt and saw the [Farrier]’s hammer flashing. He had a fast rhythm to all his motions, and while he had only one forge, he knew how to make a horseshoe with the most economical of movements. True to his word, he only needed two heats each time. And somehow, his metal was heating up faster than Pelt’s or Maughin’s! The Gnoll laughed as he took another orange-yellow piece of metal out of the furnace.

“A [Farrier] must work quick! And the quicker the metal heats, the quicker it can be struck! Some smiths have Skills to move their metal faster or make the end result tougher! But the [Farrier] must be done soonest!”

His hammer sang on the anvil as Maughin labored to catch up. Bealt was as skillful and fast as he claimed. But it was Pelt who was the master of the three. Erin saw that, and so did the audience. You could just see it. The Dwarf used one forge, and his metal didn’t heat as fast, but when he took it out, his hammer flew, and the horseshoe was done before the metal was red.

Not even Bealt could match that speed or indeed the flawless precision by which the Dwarf fullered the holes in the horseshoes each time. And yet, he was still slower, and not just because of his forge.

The Dwarf had the bars of steel ready to be turned into horseshoes lined up next to his anvil. His apprentice would hand him each one, ready to be heated up. But before the Dwarf put them in the furnace, he’d lift each bar of steel up, stare at it. Tap it against the anvil and listen to the sound it made. Each time, he’d inspect the bar of metal he was given, as meticulous as could be, despite the competition.

That struck Erin as odd, because the precious seconds or even minutes it cost Pelt to inspect each bar of steel was giving Bealt a chance to move past him. A Drake [Smith] shook his head as he stared at the Dwarf inspecting his sixteenth horseshoe as his apprentice hopped from one foot to another, practically begging him to put it in the furnace. Bealt was on his seventeenth shoe, and Maughin his fourteenth and fifteenth simultaneously.

“That’s Pelt for you. Miserable drunk he might be, but he won’t accept any imperfection in his metal. Pallass churns out the steel some of the smiths buy, but he refuses to use it. Forges his own steel himself out of iron with his apprentice; and even then he’ll discard anything that has impurity. Not that I know how you’d be able to tell by just looking.”

“Maybe it’s a Skill?”

Erin suggested. The Drake shrugged.

“It’s probably a Dwarf thing. A Skill should be faster, shouldn’t it? Either way, he’s going to lose if he doesn’t hurry up.”

He was right. Pelt was on the eighteenth horseshoe when Bealt threw down his hammer and raised his paws in the air. There was a groan from Maughin’s apprentices, and Pelt just scowled, but both smiths kept working. After all, they had promised to make twenty perfect horseshoes each.

And then they were done. All three collected their twenty shoes and placed them on their anvils, Pelt’s in a mess, Bealt and Maughin’s neat and stacked. Somehow, it fell to Erin to be the judge.

“Oh wow. Yep. Those are identical. Ahem. Looks like good…steel? These are made of steel, right? Nice sound they make. I bet if I was a horse I’d love these on my feet. Wait. You hammer these in with nails, right? Maybe not.”

Erin wandered from anvil to anvil, lamely inspecting the horseshoes in front of the audience. The thing was…the thing was…they were identical. Each one. Even Pelt’s, when she organized them. She could even see through the holes on Pelt’s when she stacked them all together, he’d hammered in the holes that perfectly. And Maughin and Bealt’s, if not that flawless, were too close for anyone to object to.

Erin came to a stop in front of the three waiting smiths. Pelt was scowling, and Maughin looked disappointed. Bealt was smiling. Erin cleared her throat awkwardly.

“Well, these look really good. So…I guess Bealt wins?”

There was a ripple through the audience. No one looked happy, although that had been the nature of the bet. Pelt kicked over his stack of horseshoes, growling.

“So the damn Gnoll can heat his horseshoes faster. So what? Mine are flawless! Not a hole out of place! Can he make anything else better, or is shaping a bar of metal all he can do?”

“I can do better. But no one challenged me to more. And I think I’ve proved a [Farrier]’s worth.”

Bealt smiled as he looked at the other two. Maughin frowned.

“Speed at least. But if I this was a matter of decoration or of a more complex shape—”

“Sour grapes, Smith Maughin. Or do you have another task in mind?”

“I wouldn’t shy away from another wager. Say, drinks and food?”

“But what would we forge?”

Pelt growled at the two. Bealt blinked. He looked at Erin.

“Well…I do have one more promise to fulfill. A certain knife for Miss Solstice. Which the two of you were too busy for, weren’t you?”

He looked at Pelt and Maughin. The two smiths turned to Erin. She grinned weakly.

“Oh, that? Well, I need a knife, sure. But is that really—”

“That settles it! A knife, and not just made fast, but made well! We’ll test them, and the sharpest, the strongest—”

“And the most beautiful.”

“Yes, all those win! Let the [Innkeeper] judge! Not just us three! Any [Smith] that wins we’ll pay for as the master of blades! Who’ll join?”

Bealt turned. Half the smiths shouted agreement and strode to their forges.

“Wow. A competition? Er—this is like one of those game shows. Only, with knives instead of food. Is there something like that? Iron Blacksmith? Um—”

Erin looked around. The smiths weren’t listening. Maughin was already calling for his best steel billet. Pelt grunted as he hurried over to his forge, hunting for his best metal. And Bealt was likewise pulling steel billets out as he sketched a knife that looked more like a hunting weapon on a piece of parchment with charcoal. He caught Erin’s eye as she approached.

“Sorry for making this a huge thing.”

“Ah, what of it? This is fun!”

The [Farrier] grinned at Erin’s apprehensive face. He laughed as he turned up his furnace, then nodded at Pelt.

“It may end with me paying for someone else’s food, but this is more fun than I’ve had all week! And as for Pelt—I’ve never seen that Dwarf participate in any competition. Someone’s riled him up, and the other smiths for that matter. And me. And it occurs to me you had something to do with that, Miss Solstice.”

He stared at Erin. The young woman gave him a wide-eyed look.

“Me? But I mean, I guess…”

She looked doubtful. Bealt shook his head.

“You have a way about you. Intentional or not. I wonder if half the stories I hear from my kin in Liscor are true.”

He bent over his parchment, chuckling, and heard a light chuckle in return. The young woman sat next to him.

“Well, some of them are. And I’ll say sorry again. But I really wanted to see how good Pelt was. And everyone likes a good competition, don’t they?”

Bealt glanced up sharply. He saw Erin smiling at him, and the wide-eyed look in her eyes was gone. His jaw fell open, and she gave him a wink.

“What can I say? It’s a knack. Better get to work! I like the curvy thing on that knife. Ooh, but I’m a judge aren’t I? Impartiality! Hey, you know, this would be great if I had something to sell for the audience…”



——



The forge sang with sound. It was a competition between sounds. Between ways of life. On one side, Daiton was forging, loudly swearing, ordering his apprentices about, talking as he waited for his metal to heat. On the other side, Nawal existed in a world of silence. The only sound was the slow tracing of her footsteps around the magic circle.

It was a contest, although Trey thought the outcome rested on Nawal, not Daiton. The [Blacksmith] had forged a sword, but it had been done out of an existing piece of metal already worked on for days. He held up the sword, and Trey had to admit, it looked quite good. Daiton had smoothed the hammer marks in the metal and given it an edge that only needed a grindstone to make sharper. It was a traditional longsword, and now he held it up for his audience to see.

His apprentices looked properly impressed, if accustomed to the sight. The Tannousin clan watched silently. Daiton showed the sword to Trey, who was the only one who showed any real interest in the blade. He wiped sweat from his brow and nodded to the furnace.

“I’m done. Time to quench it.”

That was the process Trey had yet to see. He watched as Daiton heated the blade in the forge again, like he would do before hammering on it. But this time, he inserted the sword hilt-first. One of the apprentices explained why to Trey as Daiton gently pulled the sword back and forth, heating the handle and lower part of the blade until it was white-hot.

“The tang—that’s the hilt part without the handle, Sir Trey—that heats first. You can get it nice and hot, but the edge you heat last. Master Daiton’s taking care with the sword. Overheat the delicate edge and you could ruin the hardness of it.”

“And when it’s all hot? What does he do, toss it into one of the barrels?”

Trey had seen the barrels of liquid. He assumed they were water, but the apprentice looked shocked at the idea.

“Oh no! For a sword? The water would make the edge far too brittle! Master Daiton will put it in oil. And he won’t keep it in there. If he dropped it, the sword might break at the bottom. See?”

He pointed. Daiton had lifted the glowing blade. He marched over to the barrel and without hesitation stuck the sword into the deep barrel. There was a gout of flame, but Daiton was wearing gloves. He held the blade in the oil, then pulled it out. Trey saw the [Smith] hold the sword up to eye-level and inspect the length of the blade. Then Daiton’s face twisted into a grimace. He lowered the sword with a look of disgust and grabbed a file.

A metal file. Daiton rubbed it against the edge of the longsword, then hurled the file to the ground with a curse. The apprentice and Trey watched as he carried it back to the furnace and plunged it back in. Then he turned and, almost shamefaced, addressed the forge.

“I misjudged the heat. It’s too soft and there’s a warp. I’ll have to requench it.”

The other smiths sighed, but they didn’t look too upset. Trey didn’t understand what had happened, so asked the helpful apprentice again what had gone wrong. The apprentice pointed to the reheating blade again as Daiton grumbled about having to straighten the metal.

“The heat is crucial. When you quench a blade—and you can do it many ways, sir, and the liquid matters—it must be at the right temperature. Master Daiton was quenching his blade in oil, but the quench went wrong for whatever reason and the blade isn’t hard. The file bites into the edge where it should glide across if it were properly heated.”

“So it was too weak. And the warp?”

“It means it’s not straight.”

Both Trey and the apprentice jumped. Hesseif had appeared behind him. The huge man was a proper [Warrior], but he had an air of familiarity as he nodded to the blade Daiton was hammering on.

“Quenching a blade more than once makes it weaker. Your master, he left the blade in the oil too long. He should have pulled it out sooner; it cooled too much. As for the warp—he can straighten it, of course.”

“He can?”

Trey looked at the apprentice. The young man tried to glare up at Hesseif, but for all his muscles, Hesseif was far bigger. And scarier.

“Oh yes. Daiton’s shown us any number of ways to straighten a blade—before or after quenching. It’s not an exact thing, Sir Trey. Anything can go wrong.”

That wasn’t an opinion the Tannousin clan seemed to share, though. They watched as Daiton requenched the blade—this time, he pulled it out of the oil and announced it was perfect. But their expressions told Trey it was anything but. Still, as Daiton handed the sword to an apprentice to be finished, Trey had to admit it looked like a good sword. But Nawal was trying to make a great one.

The Tannousin caravan was still waiting. They were watching Nawal as she kept straightening her metal. She was so far behind Daiton—but she’d folded her metal, all eight bars of it, into a single chunk of metal. The ground outside the circle was littered with the slag, the scaling, the impurity she’d hammered out of the metal. Now, the bar she held glowed as she hit it again and again. And it was growing longer with each cycle she walked!

“Sir Trey, look. Master Daiton’s blade is nearly finished.”

The apprentice urged Trey over. He stared at the blackened exterior of the blade. It was the right shape, but the metal was all sooty. The exterior needed to be ground away, and the quenching wasn’t the entire process either as the apprentice explained.

“Tempering comes after. You heat the blade—not as hot as the quench—and put it in oil. You do that again and again to get the exact hardness of the metal you need.”

“So it’s not done?”

“No, Sir Trey. But the quench was the biggest hurdle. See the blade now? It’s straight and true. No more warp. No cracking on the edge, though. Ready for grinding.”

“A good sword.”

Trey said it automatically. But his eyes went to Hesseif, and the big man shook his head. Twice quenched. And the steel wasn’t perfect. Trey was far from an expert, but he was getting a sense of the Tannousin clan’s objections.

So was Daiton. He scowled as he stared at Hesseif and Trey. His eyes slid to Nawal and the metal she was working on, and he snapped at another journeyman smith.

“Another sword! Hand me another—I’ll make this one excellent. Where’s the one Makel was working on? Give it here!”

He grabbed another unfinished sword. His hammer fell, making the metal ring. This time, Daiton beat the metal in a furious rhythm, elongating the sword, pausing, his hammer tapping the edges lightly, giving it an edge, smoothing the metal. But his was one sound in the forge. And when Nawal began her hammering again, her sound joined him.

Two rhythms. The other smiths worked as well, hammering, sweating, aiming for the place where the metal should be. Trying to coax steel to move. That was the endless beat of the forge, the work of smiths as their hammers rose and fell. Ceaseless, until they paused to let the metal heat. And then the hammers fell again and again.



——



The ninth floor of Pallass rang with sound. Erin had heard it before when she’d stepped off the elevator. But now the sound filled her ears. It was hypnotic.

Dozens of sweating Drakes, Dullahans, and a few Gnolls, almost all male, some even bare-chested (although that just meant scales or fur or armor, so did it really count?) due to the intense heat, labored in their forges. Each one forging a blade. A knife. For her. But really for them.

Each one had a different design in mind. But each followed the same pattern. Heat and strike. Move their metal into shape. With nothing but brawn and sweat and the tools they had.

A crowd watched the impromptu competition. Younger smiths too unsure of their skills to compete and onlookers who admired the skill of those who shaped metal. Among them was a huge Drake [Mage] with bulging muscles of his own who’d taken his apprentices to watch and observe.

Grimalkin was nodding, looking extremely satisfied as he watched the display. A few teenage girl Drakes and Gnolls were eying the male blacksmiths and giggling. But most of the audience was actually older and had come, like Erin, to see experts at work.

It was amazing. Each smith was pounding away at the metal. Maughin’s huge hammer fell, like a miniature clap of thunder each time, pounding his billet of steel flat with ease. Across from him, Bealt was curving his blade, his hammer moving almost too fast to see.

But Erin’s eyes were on Pelt. The Dwarf hadn’t sprung into action like the other smiths right away. They had pieces of metal ready to turn into knives, and but for the shaping, they were nearly done. But he’d taken a different tack. He’d grabbed a long, wide piece of iron that was too big for anything but some kind of cleaver, and he was folding both sides up. Erin had to ask one of the [Smiths] watching what he was doing.

“He’s not going to use that, is he?”

She pointed at the wedge the Dwarf was making. One of the Drakes shook his head.

“He shouldn’t. That’s iron, not steel. But wait…he’s got some steel right there. Oh! He must be making the blade out of both metals!”

He looked excited. Erin looked blank.

“What? You mean, like one half iron, the other half steel? Why?”

“No, no, the edge will be all steel. But the rest—what’s the right way to describe this? He’s putting the metal he intends to make into an edge between two softer metals. That way, the spine of the blade is more flexible while the edge is sharp.”

Erin stared at the wedge. Then her eyes widened as she saw Pelt place the bar of shiny steel between the iron and hammer it shut.

“Oh, like a sandwich!”

“…That’s right.”

The Drake glanced at her. But Erin understood now. The Dwarf was making a sandwich of iron with the steel in the center. Or…was a taco the better way of looking at it? Yes, an iron-and-steel taco. He inserted the length of steel between the wrapper of the red-hot metal and sealed it all up with his hammer. Then he stuck it back in the furnace.

“Is that a good way of making a knife?”

“Well, it means it’s not one solid thing, you see? It can make a blade better, certainly. Give it flexibility and strength. I’ll say this—it’s harder to do than just plain steel. But look at the other smiths! Some are already nearing completion!”

He pointed. And Erin saw it was true. A few smiths had Skills that could move metal very quickly, and their knives had appeared out of their steel very quickly. But the two to watch, that was, Maughin and Bealt, were both still beginning their work.

Both smiths still hammering away at their billets. That was the word, wasn’t it? Both men, well Gnoll and Dullahan, were working fast. But there was a difference between the two’s styles. Maughin was a lot slower than Bealt. The Gnoll hit twice or even three times for every stroke of Maughin’s hammer.

But the Dullahan made up for his slower speed with his strength. Every time he hit the metal, Erin could see and practically feel the impact. Meanwhile, Bealt was hitting as hard as he could, but both were still working hard to lengthen their billets into proper knives.

“Good work. Solid. If they quench well, they’ll have a knife in no time. You’ll judge them on the speed at which they finished, won’t you? And the cutting edge?”

The Drake was bouncing on his feet, tail wagging excitedly. Erin eyed him.

“Sure…I’ll do that. Uh, I might need to write down who went first. And, uh, maybe get some fish to slice. What else do you cut with knives? Apples?”

She was looking around, wondering if she’d gone too far with her competition. Then she noticed Pelt. He was standing in front of the furnace, staring into it. The [Smiths] to his left and right were all hammering on their knives, shouting at each other, laughing as they waited to reheat their metal. But Pelt was still.

So still. Like a statue, just watching his metal heating up. Erin’s gaze swung back to him, and she felt premonition stir the hairs on the back of her neck. She saw Pelt reach out with his tongs and grab the metal. The little sandwich of metal was glowing with heat. And he placed it on his anvil and grabbed his hammer. Every part of Erin screamed at her.

Look at him. See? He’s lost his scowl. Look at his eyes. Look at his expression. Peaceful. And see his hammer rise. See him open his mouth. See him strike!

And he did. The first sound was like a bell ringing. The second followed it, so fast Erin blinked and missed it. Pelt’s hammer rose over his head, and he brought it down in an arc and struck the metal. Twice. Three times. And then Erin lost count.

At first, no one noticed. But then the sound chimed again and again. Not just a rhythm, but a wild racing metal heartbeat. The smiths around Pelt looked up. And they stared.

A flash of metal. A blurring arm. That was all Erin could see. Her eyes couldn’t track Pelt’s hammer, but she saw the metal changing on the anvil in real-time. Maughin and Bealt, wrapped up in their work, didn’t notice at first. Then they glanced up at the strange sound and stared.

Pelt held the metal as still as water on the lake. But his hammer fell a dozen times per second, so fast Erin saw afterimages. Again and again, faster than Bealt, so hard Erin thought the anvil might crack! The sound the Dwarf’s hammer made drowned out all the others.

The other sounds stopped. The smiths halted in their work. Men and women, Drakes, Gnolls, Dullahans. They’d all stopped to stare at him. Pelt’s hammer was the only sound in the world. And it drowned out everything. He was lost in the center of the blur of his arm and body, moving like the only real person in a slow world.

Pelt’s mouth was open. Erin could see him roaring, but his words were lost in the rush of sound. And then it stopped.

The Dwarf raised the metal, and Erin saw it was cooling. He put it in the furnace and placed bricks in front of it, containing the heat. There he waited, his back to the others. No one moved. They watched as Pelt stared into the blinding flames, staring at his metal until it was just the right temperature. Then he tore it out and began hammering again.

One heat. And then two. Each time the metal went into the furnace, it looked different. First it was just a bar of two metals joined together. Then it was longer, a curve appearing near the point, a handle clearly defined. The third time the knife went in, it looked…close to done.

“Dead gods.”

The Drake at Erin’s side breathed out slowly. Erin had forgotten and inhaled a breath of painful air. She stared at Pelt as this time he took the knife out and grabbed something from a pot. He covered the back edge of the knife with it, leaving the edge untouched.

“What’s he doing now?”

“He’s going to quench it. But that stuff—clay? He’s only quenching the edge, then. See?”

Pelt was holding the knife over a barrel of oil. And the rest of it was indeed covered with a smooth coat of clay. Only the edge was visible, glowing still. The Dwarf didn’t hesitate. He plunged the knife into the oil, lifting it as flames shot up from the oil. Erin gasped, but Pelt didn’t waver, though he wore no gloves.

Once, twice, three times. The knife cooled with each dip into the oil. And when it came out—clay fell away, what hadn’t been burned off. Pelt raised the knife, and it was done. The Drake standing next to Erin sighed with longing, and she looked at him. A [Smith]. Then she looked at Pelt and realized she was staring at a master.

The Dwarf stared at his knife as it cooled. The other [Smiths] had stopped their work at their forges, put down their hammers to see. It was a finished knife. In…an hour? No, less. Erin could see it.

Pelt held it up as his apprentice dragged something over. A grindstone. Of course! He just had to sharpen that edge, remove some of the chaff that coated the blade, and it would be perfect. But suddenly Pelt’s expression wasn’t so calm. He was frowning at the blade. At one side of it, tilting his head back and forth. Erin slunk forwards and heard him muttering to himself. She caught one word as he turned to the grindstone.

“Maybe…”

The apprentice helped work the grinding wheel. Erin saw the Dwarf delicately put the blade’s edge to the wheel and sparks flew. They landed on his face, his beard, and his clothes, but he didn’t flinch. The blackened metal from the quench flew away and revealed a bright inner core. Around Erin, the watching audience, smiths and apprentices and onlookers alike, sighed.

“Perfection.”

Maughin had abandoned his knife at his anvil. He walked forwards to stand with Erin, as if he were ashamed of the knife he had tried to forge. And why not? Pelt’s blade was a work of art. It was almost unfair how beautiful it was.

The knife’s back was straight and curved slightly towards the point. The edge was similarly straight as a razor until it tapered off, but what was most striking was the line running across the blade. It was like waves—the edge was brighter while the metal of the back of the blade was darker. Erin was sure the line had come from where Pelt had applied the clay. A sharp edge and softer spine, two kinds of metal made into one.

“A masterwork.”

Bealt stepped out to stare at it. A masterwork done in less than an hour. Erin didn’t have to be told that was an incredible feat. But Pelt’s expression had soured. The Dwarf’s contented look during the forging, his excitement, had given way to an ominous look. And Erin and the smiths sensed it.

One side of the knife became polished, perfect and beautiful. But there was…something wrong with the other side. Pelt unearthed it after only a few seconds of grinding. Erin heard an oath, and the Dwarf jerked the blade back from the grindstone wheel. The Drake apprentice stopped spinning it, and the other smiths crowded around to see what was wrong. Erin peeked over Pelt’s shoulder and saw it.

There. The slightest of cracks in the still-blackened outer shell. A fault in the pristine steel, right near the edge. The Dwarf dropped the blade with shaking fingers.

“A flaw in the metal. My metal.”

“Aw, but that’s noth—”

Erin froze as Pelt turned. His eyes were suddenly huge in his face. Maughin peered at the knife, shaking his head.

“A superficial crack. You can easily grind it away and have a perfect blade still.”

“No, no. It’s there. Impurity in the metal. The fire, the hammering had no issue. So it was a flaw in my steel. It must have crept in. And I didn’t notice. I was too busy thinking of the knife.”

“It’s the tiniest of flaws, Pelt. And you’ve won the competition by any reckoning. I haven’t the heart to finish my blade.”

Bealt objected, looking down with envy at the knife. But the Dwarf was shaking his head. He turned to Erin, and she backed up. There was a wild light in Pelt’s eyes.

“An impurity. I didn’t see it. Didn’t think to check—forgot to check. I forgot to check.”

Pelt looked around, his gaze suddenly cornered. He lifted the knife and then stared at the crack. With a shout, Pelt hurled the blade away. Erin saw his apprentice duck as the knife clanged across the ground.

“Pelt! It’s just—”

Maughin reached for the Dwarf, but the shorter smith tore away. He looked around at his audience, and his face turned into a snarl.

“What are you looking at? Begone! I’m done! Done!”

He rammed into the crowd and ran past them, abandoning his apprentice and tools. Erin heard his running footfalls. And then silence.

“What was that? He overreacted!”

One of the Drakes [Smiths] exclaimed, a touch shaken, a bit angrily. Some of others agreed, the rest were shaking their heads. Erin looked up at Maughin and then at Bealt. Both had bleak looks.

“That wasn’t the first time this has happened, is it?”

“How could you detect an impurity so small? No—before that, look at this blade.”

Maughin spoke slowly. He walked forwards, past the Drake apprentice who was sitting back, woebegone. The Dullahan stared down at the knife. His voice was low when he spoke.

“I am a Level 35 [Armorer]. I’ve labored for over thirty years to reach my level of skill and experience in my craft. Some thought me gifted, and I believed that too when I left Baleros to impress another continent with my skill. But Dwarves, half-Elves, even some Lizardfolk will outlive me. Most Dullahans die before ever turning eighty.”

He bent, brushing dust off the knife and held it up. The Dullahan shook his head as he inspected it and then brought it to the grindstone. He sheared off the excess metal quietly, and lifted the blade. The crack was gone, and the metal shone on both sides. Maughin went on, still shaking his head as he held the small knife in his massive hands.

“But Pelt? How old is he? Over a hundred? How many decades of experience does he have? How many Skills? To think an outcast from his home could outperform us so easily. And yet he gave up, though this blade is near perfect. Why? We do not ask, but now I do. Why? What could bring him so low? And why did the world see fit to grant him such skills and we…”

The giant Dullahan’s voice turned rough. His fist closed over the knife as if to snap it, and his arm tensed. But then his face sagged, and he gently opened his hand. He stared down at the beautiful knife and gently handed it, tang first, to Erin. She looked at the blade and touched the cool metal softly. Maughin’s eyes were sad.

“What good is the purity of metal if the hammer that shapes it lacks heart?”

She had no answer. Part of Erin felt bad for egging on Pelt to begin with. She remembered the Dwarf’s face, that look of deepest regret and anger.

“Everyone has a story. Everyone has a past. Sometimes we can’t get past it. I…shouldn’t have bugged Pelt. I think he made a mistake and he’s still hurting.”

“Wisdom. I hear it spoken.”

The [Armorer] nodded heavily. He let Erin look at the knife for a second and then waved a hand.

“Take it to a [Sharpener]. Do you know Lorent? He spoke to me of you, and he is one of the best. He can finish the knife; one of my apprentices can fit the handle if he cannot.”

The young woman looked up.

“You’re sure? But Pelt threw it away, and I didn’t pay—”

“Take it, Erin Solstice. It would be a crime to waste that metal. And a better knife you will not have from Pallass’ forges, I promise you. If Pelt seeks the cost of the work, I’ll pay him myself. To see him working with his heart was worth the cost. Now, I have work to finish.”

He walked off. Erin clutched the knife, feeling the not-yet fully sharp edge biting into her palm. She stared around at the crowd, the smiths going back to their forges, and shook her head.

“And just when I thought Pallass would be relaxing. I guess this is something else for my to-do list. As for you? You’re coming with me, friend.”

She lifted the knife and began to walk away. It wasn’t how Erin would have preferred to end her day, for all she had a knife ready to be sharpened, practically free of charge. She wished it had ended differently and wished she could hear that glorious sound again and see the Dwarf’s face, lit up and laughing. But the sound was faded. Though the hammering and roar of the furnaces began once again, it was a quiet sound.

But on another continent, the hammer still fell, and a girl with a veil screamed her purpose silently in the echoing forge.



——



How long had she worked? Trey had no notion. The hours had passed as he stood there, watching her. Sweat ran down her face. Her veil was wet, despite the heat. Her face was pale.

She couldn’t breathe. Not until she left the circle. But she kept returning to it. Again and again, even when Daiton had stopped his work. He had tried to continue, but his arms had tired. So had his apprentices. They had stopped, and now they watched with the rest.

Down the hammer fell. Down again and again. In a place without air. On a piece of metal without flaw. And it glowed in a forge without flame. But the product, the metal being shaped, had something the others’ blades lacked.

The complacent. The inexperienced. The weak of heart. All fell away in time. But she kept going. She had fewer Skills, less experience than some. But her drive kept her standing. Her will let the hammer rise and fall.

She was spending less and less time in the circle. Her walking was slower. But she refused to let the metal overheat. She refused to stop. And as the sword emerged from the metal Nawal had folded, Trey saw the beauty of it. It was not hidden like the other swords; it was there, bared to see. A shining blade, heating and cooling on the anvil.

There was no scaling; the previous folding of the steel had burned the impurity away, and Nawal had swept the ground clean again and again. Between heats, she’d even cleaned her hammer and anvil. Now the metal bar slowly extended, earning a point, a recurved spine and a long, cutting edge.

“She’s dying.”

That was all Trey said as Nawal walked slowly around the circle. Her shoulders were slumped. She looked impossibly worn. But her clan refused to let anyone go near her. Nawal herself had only stopped to drink water.

“She is nearly finished. The task was long. Longer than she would take normally since she purified the steel. But she is nearly done.”

Silmak stood with his arms folded. Sweat stood out on his brow despite the cooling air as the sun set. He had been maintaining both spells, and his vigil was as taxing as Nawal’s work in its way. He pointed with a strained finger.

“Look. She heats the edge alone. This is the final time. The quenching. After this, it is done.”

“What if she gets it wrong? If the edge isn’t sharp?”

Silmak looked back at Trey and shook his head.

“She will only quench it once. If she fails, the sword is worthless. See how she heats only the edge? She can tell how much heat is in the blade. It must be perfect or else the spine will be too hot, the edge too cool.”

“But—”

Trey’s voice trailed off. That was the Tannousin clan’s way, wasn’t it? Perfection or nothing. He imagined all the hours of work going to waste. And he prayed Nawal would do it correctly.

“The oil.”

A group of men led by Hesseif dragged the barrel over. Into the circle where air wasn’t permitted. Not even here would air touch and corrupt the blade. Trey saw Nawal lift the bright edge as the rest of the blade cooled, dark or red. He thought she hesitated once. Then she turned and approached the barrel of oil.

There was no ceremony. Nawal thrust the sword into the oil, and it began to bubble and froth the moment she thrust the blade in. Yet there was not the same rush of steam in this vacuum of oxygen. Nawal stayed there, gently shifting the sword, pulling it out of the oil, dipping it back in. And then the sword came out, and Nawal turned. She stepped out of the circle and held the sword up. And she spoke in a voice hoarse from hours of disuse.

“It is done.”

A sigh ran through the Tannousin clan. The smiths around Daiton stared. The sword Nawal held dripped with oil. But more than that. It gleamed.

There was no scaling, no soot or burnt metal. Nothing a traditional fire or quench would leave on the steel. Nawal had hammered the metal so finely, with such precision, that no marks existed on the smooth metal.

It was not perfect. There was no handle or hilt to the sword, just the bared tang. And Trey could see the edge wasn’t there yet. But the metal still looked beautiful. It had taken so little of…of anything, be it soot or that scaling on Daiton’s blades. It was just metal, gleaming after the oil bath.

“Who will sharpen it?”

Nawal looked around. She staggered, and hands reached out. Bezha caught her. Another man took the blade, as careful as could be. A grindstone appeared, and smaller files were produced as the Tannousin clan members gathered around the blade. Silmak turned to Trey and the other watchers.

“Hers is to shape the metal. The rest of the clan performs other tasks, such as sharpening the edge, detailing it. Etching with acid. We will only sharpen today.”

He bowed slightly. Trey bowed back, not knowing what else to do. He heard a noise and looked sideways. Daiton was staring at the blade as it was slowly sharpened with exacting care. The [Blacksmith] spoke through numb lips.

“I—have not seen a [Smith] make a sword from a raw piece of steel in a day for years. Let alone…what level are you? Who taught you?”

He looked at Nawal. The girl was being held up by Bezha and another woman. She spat the veil out of her mouth as they offered her water and something to eat. But her eyes were no less fierce than they had been this morning. She looked Daiton in the eye.

“I am Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin. My father forged Naq-Alrama steel. That is my only claim, but he taught me all he knew, and if I lie, may my blood water the sands.”

The older smith met Nawal’s gaze. This time, it was he who looked away, not her. He stared at Trey, and his voice was lost.

“I have heard of the desert tribes and their famous smiths. But I thought there was little difference, even for magical steel. I thought…”

He said nothing more. He just looked at Nawal’s blade. And Trey felt bad for him. Nawal sat down as her tribe worked on the sword, passing it from person to person. From rough grinding of the edge to delicate work with smoother stones. The blade grew sharper with each person until Trey was worried for the hands that ran across the edge. But the Tannousin clan was experienced, and not one drop of blood touched the ground.

Trey didn’t know what to do next. Daiton was sitting in his forge, staring at the magical circle as Silmak slowly destroyed it with his foot. Everyone else was just staring at the blade or being silent. He looked at Nawal and then saw something heading towards them.

From the palace. A tall figure strode towards them, followed by four other figures. Carrying parasols. Orthenon and four members of Parasol Stroll including Mirin and Ulyse walked towards the forge. The smiths, the Tannousin clan, and Trey all looked up as the King’s Stewards approached.

Orthenon asked no questions. Neither did he waste time on greetings. He looked down at the sword a young woman held with a piece of cloth.

“The sword. It is done?”

Everyone looked at Silmak. The [Shaman] bowed.

“Not yet, Steward Orthenon. It must still be sharpened thrice more.”

The Steward nodded.

“Perfect the edge, then. But do it quickly and without error. And the second it is finished, hand it to Mage Ulyse.”

He stood there, waiting, and the four [Mages] behind him folded their parasols and waited. Trey expected the Tannousin clan to be nervous, and they clearly were, but even that didn’t let them hurry their work. Fifteen minutes later, the blade was passed to Silmak. He hesitated, then handed it to Nawal. She took the blade and, with both hands, offered it tang-first to the Steward.

“It lacks a handle, Lord Orthenon—”

Silmak cautioned the man. Orthenon shook his head.

“That does not matter at the moment. Ulyse. This blade. Will it do?”

The [Mage] sighed. He lifted a finger, and the sword spun through the air towards him. It paused in the air, and he touched it gently.

“Ah, this is a pure thing. Can you feel it, Mirin? It will hold an enchantment. But which one?”

“We are four. Strength is all we could manage, surely.”

The young woman murmured to him. Ulyse nodded.

“Four. Strengthening it is. Together, then.”

He looked at the other four [Mages]. They all raised their parasols and opened them as one. It was more than a symbolic gesture—as they did, Trey felt them casting a spell. Out of sight, invisible, but for Ulyse’s moving lips, the hypnotic swirl of Mirin’s colorful parasol. But Trey saw it, saw the magic wrap and weave as the four, led by Ulyse, twisted it around the blade.

And then—did they tie a knot? No, that wasn’t the word for it. They tied the magic into the metal, anchored it in some way Trey couldn’t describe, only see. And the enchantment made the blade glow in Trey’s vision. A complex spell held in the blade, but a simple purpose even he could understand at his low level.

Strength.

“Done.”

Ulyse announced softly. He lifted his finger, and the sword twisted around. It returned to Orthenon, back first, and he gently lifted the blade out of the air. Inspected it. Ulyse leaned on his parasol, suddenly tired, but his smile was one of satisfaction.

“It will not break so easily, and great force will be needed for the blade to so much as bend. It is not what we could do if there were eight or even sixteen, but I think any [Enchanter] would pronounce it decent work.”

“Good. Nawalishifra of Tannousin.”

The young woman roused herself a second time. Orthenon handed her the sword. It glittered as she took it, gripping the spine gingerly, staring at the metal.

“It is enchanted? Just like that? Then it is no longer my blade.”

“You forged it. The [Mages] simply gave it the power. I’m told it is simpler if the metal is newly made.”

“Simpler for you, maybe.”

Ulyse grumbled. The other tired [Mages] nodded. Orthenon ignored them.

“Present this to His Majesty. Daiton. Bring one of your blades. My king has heard of your bet, and he wishes to see both swords.”

“He’s here? He’s back?”

Trey looked up, alarmed. He stared towards the sky. The sun was nearly set! Orthenon shook his head.

“He is returning. You can see his progress down the northern road. He will be here within the hour. And a banquet shall be held then.”

He turned. Orthenon strode away. But Trey followed him this time. He ran to the edge of the walls and exclaimed. The others, smiths, Tannousin clan, followed. And they shouted too.



——



“Nawal! Nawal, come see!”

Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin was so tired. Her lungs burned. Her arms hurt more than she could remember them ever aching. She had pushed herself so hard. But she refused to fall down like some weak coward. She clutched the sword to her, then realized she might actually fall on her blade. And wouldn’t that be a disgraceful end? So she looked around.

“Hesseif. Guard this until the King of Destruction touches it.”

The big [Warrior] accepted the blade with reverence. He nodded, and Nawal turned to the insistent voice calling her name.

“What is it, you…you loud-mouthed boy?”

Trey smiled at Nawal, his eyes lighting up.

“Come and see! It’s what you wanted!”

He reached out and, to Nawal’s shock, tugged her by the arm. She staggered after him, half ready to flay him with her tongue if she could but find the words. But her insults stilled in her mouth as she reached the parapet.

The forge was located on a rise. Outside of the castle, but still within an inner wall. Beyond it lay the city of Reim. But further still, you could see the north road. On it came a procession.

And there it was. Nawal’s eyes widened as the others helped her towards the edge of the parapet with Trey. She clung to the stone, her knees suddenly weak.

A glittering train slowly rode across the darkening landscape. A procession of horses, mounted warriors, and, swarming to meet them, a crowd of Reim’s people. But it was the wagons Nawal stared at. Even from this far away, she saw they were laden with treasure.

Gold, catching the sunset light. Gemstones. Treasures of magic and art. They filled the wagons and shone with light. A man rode at their head. A figure flanked by two smaller riders. Nawal saw a glint of red and gold as he raised his hand towards his city. And she turned and saw Trey’s smile.

In days of old, it was said that the King of Destruction’s city flowed with wealth. Every day, caravans would enter the city, bringing treasures from the world over.

Nawal had thought it was a lie. She had looked upon Reim and seen the small truth buried behind the myth. Or so she’d thought. But now she looked upon the glittering train of wagons below and saw a different truth.

It was not an endless stream, just eight or so wagons. The streets were hardly paved with gold, and the [Beggars] weren’t as rich as [Lords]. But the King of Destruction still rode through his city, followed by a caravan heaped with gold and artifacts. When the roar of the crowd that flocked out to meet him reached Nawal’s ears, it felt like the entire palace shook.

“Legends. So it’s true. There is truth in his stories.”

She wavered on the parapet. The King of Destruction was riding through his city. And it felt like he was looking up at her. Her head felt light. Her knees weak. Nawal breathed shallowly.

Trey smiled at her. He looked at Nawal’s pale face and then at the shining blade still held in Hesseif’s hands.

“Some things are true. There are legends. And the King of Destruction fits his stories. His vassals are the kind of thing you read about in stories. But I think…I think you’ll fit right in among them, Nawal.”

She looked at him. Trey pointed at her blade. She wanted to laugh. That bit of metal? Hardly. But he meant what he said. He was a fool. But she couldn’t help but like that. Nawal smiled at him. A genuine smile. Then she wavered and fell.

Trey caught her before she hit the ground.





6.14 K


(The Wandering Inn, Volume 1 is coming out as an audiobook! The narrator is doing live reading on her Discord, invite here! You can listen to her streaming most week days at 2 PM EST if you’d like to hear the audiobook being produced! Please be respectful on her server, and look forwards to the finished product!)



“Nawali. Nawali. Nawalishifra.”

The girl was lying down when she woke up. She heard the voice at first. Familiar. And she was being held, she realized. In someone’s lap.

“Nawali. You must wake up.”

Bezha called to Nawal in a soft, gentle voice. As she had done for many years, ever since she had begun helping to care for Nawal and her brother as children. And that name, Nawali—only she called Nawal that. An affectionate name she still used even though Nawal was grown.

The girl shifted. She felt leaden. Drained, and her lungs hurt. Her arms—she could barely move them. It was not an unfamiliar sensation. Hadn’t she felt that in the forge a hundred times before? It was the same pain, the same feeling that was an echo of the beat of the hammer or air in her lungs, fighting to explode outwards as she walked the smith’s labyrinth. It had broken other apprentices, her brother, and worn her father down.

But that was only half of the feeling in Nawal’s chest. The other half was like a hidden sunrise in her. She felt good, though she didn’t know why. At first, she struggled to remember. Was it the triumph of forging a sword? No, not necessarily. That sword of steel was just that; a sword, far from a masterwork for all it had been done pure. Why was she happy?

And then the girl lying in the warm embrace remembered. Her eyes opened. An older, lined face smiled down at her. Bezha. Clustered around were some of the other women. No Silmak. No Hesseif. And no…Trey?

“Bezha.”

Nawal croaked. The woman nodded. She held something, and Nawal felt cool liquid at her lips. Instinctively, she gulped and tasted a sour, bitter liquid. But refreshingly cool.

A stamina potion diluted with water. The thing for exhausted bodies. Nawal felt some strength enter her limbs. But she didn’t rise yet.

“Nawali, you must get up. Do you have the strength for it?”

“Why?”

Nawal was exhausted. All she wanted to do was rest. That was her right, wasn’t it? Part of her, the sleepy part, resented even having to speak and be awake. But Bezha was insistent.

“Up. You are tired, this I know. But you must be up. Don’t make me pinch you.”

“Why? For what? I finished the sword. Isn’t it…”

A yawn cracked Nawal’s mouth open. She didn’t feel the veil on her face. Of course; they must be in a woman’s room where men were outlawed normally. Bezha shook her head in answer to Nawal’s question.

“It is not the sword. The sword was made perfectly. But you must be up. He has mentioned your name. And already they are gathering in the banquet hall.”

The word sparked something in Nawal’s chest. She peered vaguely up at Bezha. Part of her still felt like a young girl in a younger woman’s arms, rather than an adult held by her aunt.

“Who?”

She saw Bezha’s eyes widen incredulously. A light flick across the temples; Nawal winced. But it was an affectionate tap.

“The King of Destruction, of course. Don’t you remember?”

And then Nawal did. The shining caravan, the King of Destruction riding at the head of the group, the roar of his citizens. The moment she’d laid eyes on him again and realized that the legends were true.

The happiness in her breast leapt and rose. Nawal slowly sat up. It was the [Blacksmith] of the Tannousin clan who let the others help her change out of her sweaty, smelling clothes and into a more colorful dress. But it was the young girl who walked out, followed by her clan. Rejoicing, laughing, and smiling as she entered the banquet hall.

Because the legends were true. And Nawal walked into the banquet hall and heard the roar of sound. She saw a room heaving with people, a room that could hold over a thousand still crowded by soldiers, servants, and…people from the city. Citizens, come to see their King. Feasting, drinking. As Nawal’s eyes travelled up the room, she saw him sitting at a table halfway up the room. As if he’d forgotten to sit at the head table. But there he was, sitting with a group of awestruck children who looked up at their King.

At the head of the room sat the grand table, heaped with delicacies. And there sat Orthenon, eating efficiently as he talked brusquely with a soldier on his left. On his right was the empty chair. And past it was Teres, staring at Nawal. Then Gazi, then Trey.

But they were all the background. Nawal stopped. She’d seen him. So had Clan Tannousin, who paused behind her.

Silmak, who’d forgotten the speech he’d prepared. Hesseif, who rubbed his eyes like a boy. And Bezha, who looked younger, like Nawal, remembering a hundred tales as they looked at the [King] leaning over and inspecting the food on a young girl’s plate. His red-gold hair flashed in the light as his head turned.

And a myth came to life. A story turned, and the girl inside Nawal smiled. For there stood the King of Destruction. Before he spoke, before she realized her impropriety and knelt and Silmak stammered a greeting that was lost in the noise, before Nawal recalled the King of Destruction’s darker tales and apprehension and the other mortal emotions overwhelmed the feeling, for just that moment, Nawal smiled. And he smiled too.

That was the kind of [King] he was.



——



“No one speak anything ill of him. Do not mention his slumber or his enemies. Make no promises and offer no insult no matter what is done. Never forget why we are here and where we are.”

As they sat at the tables near the head banquet table, Silmak hissed at the rest of his clan. All thirty-one other men and women, from Bezha to the youngest, all nodded, and those that did not hear nodded as his instructions were passed down the table. It did not need saying, honestly, but they felt better hearing it. Nawal, who sat next to Silmak and Bezha, felt unsteady. She looked around at the sea of faces.

She didn’t remember Silmak’s awkward greeting to the King of Destruction or what the [King] had said. Or rather, she remembered it in flashes. Entering the vast banquet room with all eyes on her for a moment as Flos of Reim returned to his seat at the head table. And now they were sitting, feasting as he sat there.

And it wasn’t a situation where Flos was sitting at the head of the room and where Nawal could turn and stare at him from afar. No, it was more like—

“Ah, I would that you had been with us, Trey. I wonder what you would have made of the Quarass. As for Hellios—well, your company on the road would have been appreciated. Teres tired of answering all my questions, I think. And Mars, Venith, and Maresar all had to remain, at least for the moment. Perhaps Orthenon could take you with him to Germina?”

Nawal heard a slightly indistinct voice over the background noise. She heard a laugh and then a dry voice, even closer.

“I fear my journey must be swift, my lord. So I shall travel alone. Although if you wish it—”

A chuckle. Nawal’s skin tingled.

“No, no, Orthenon. It was a joke. I have at least eight questions to ask Trey, and I don’t think his presence would be helpful in Hellios. Where I suspect you’ll spend the longest.”

“You do trust the Quarass of Germina, then, my lord?”

That voice was soft. Female. A pause and then—

“Let us say that I looked into her eyes, Gazi. And I judged her to be true when she agreed to work with me. If nothing else, she is brave; and that is to her credit. The last Quarass was craven. This one will not be, so she will be a fine ally or enemy. Either way, Orthenon need not linger there overmuch, although he will visit Germina first. But tell me, Trey. What’s this I hear about—”

If she turned her head, she could see him. Here was the thing. It was not like most banquets, where the ruler and his guests of honor would sit at the front of the room, staring across their diners. Flos, the King of Destruction, was eating in the center of his banquet hall, and for some reason, his table was so close to his diners that you could lean over and hold a conversation with him.

Nawal could hear every single thing Flos said, and while some of the other people at his table were out of earshot, he was far too close for her to relax. She stared at the food on her plate and realized she’d eaten some of it. And it was good food! Delicious, or at least, she thought so. But she could feel Flos’ presence to her right, and it distracted her. The other diners too, who listened covertly to him speaking. Until he spoke her name and her heart stopped.

“So tell me, Orthenon. What passed in my forges before my arrival? You mentioned something. And Clan Tannousin are my guests this night. And you, Trey, spoke of your acquaintance. Nawalishifra, a female [Blacksmith]. I sense that something has occurred. Where does Daiton fit into this?”

Clan Tannousin froze in their seats. Nawal felt sweat suddenly run down her clothes. Orthenon neither laughed nor made small talk, either of which might have been preferable, even if it delayed the anticipation of the events reaching the King of Destruction’s ears.

“My King, I heard only half of what transpired. But from what I understand, Clan Tannousin’s smith disputed the quality of Master Daiton’s work. They competed to forge a sword.”

“Ah. And?”

“I have the results of both. I wished to wait until after the dining to present both to you. Again, if you wish it…”

“No. No, I believe I shall wait. Ah, how exciting. And…intriguing. You saw the entirety of the affair, Trey? Speak up! I can barely hear you.”

Nawal chanced a glance to her right. She saw Flos leaning over, past a girl who was looking at a boy too much like her to be coincidence. Trey had mentioned he had a twin sister. But he was speaking to Flos! A mere servant? Hah! Nawal tried to disappear in her seat and saw Silmak feverishly take another gulp of wine and refill his cup. She didn’t hear what was said, but she sensed the rest of her clan’s eyes on her.

“Be calm. Be calm, Nawali…”

Bezha’s voice whispered to her. Nawal nodded. She wanted to reply that she was calm and the sands take her eyes if she was not! But she wondered if that oath might actually induce blindness in this moment.

The King of Destruction had heard of her rash bet! But—Nawal comforted herself—he would see the rightness of her statements. She had forged a blade that the so-called master blacksmith Daiton could not. For all his layering techniques, his sword was simply inferior in quality to the steel in her blade. He might have an aesthetically pleasing blade, but put to the test, her sword would break long after his had shattered to pieces. And hers had held an enchantment!

“I see. I see. Tell me the rest later!”

Flos straightened, and Nawal breathed a sigh of relief. Too soon as it turned out. Because no sooner had Trey sat back than a voice, louder and audible to Nawal, cut in.

“My lord. Might I speak into your ear?”

Gazi Pathseeker raised a hand. Nawal glanced swiftly up at her. She froze. Gazi was staring right at her with all four eyes. Two immediately shifted over to Flos as the King of Destruction, bemused, leaned over.

“Very well. What is it?”

Gazi turned her head to whisper to him. But two of her eyes were still looking at Nawal. And the [Smith] girl suddenly had a terrible, terrible premonition. Because Gazi’s smile was every bit as evil as the rumors said.

“Oh. I see. Really? And…what did you say?”

Flos listened for a second, half-smiling as Gazi kept whispering. Orthenon, glancing over at them, frowned at Gazi, and Teres, who was having to lean back for the entire thing, glanced up sharply. At Nawal. And then, horror of horrors, Flos’ head turned to look at Nawal.

She felt her heart stop for one shuddering second in her chest. That would have been enough to plague Nawal’s dreams for a month. But then the King of Destruction stood up. The banquet hall quieted slightly as the King of Destruction spoke in a voice loud enough for all to hear.

“Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin. Might I exchange a few words with you?”

He looked at her. Nawal stood up. She couldn’t help it. And though she knew she should not speak to another man who was not a foreigner, Flos clearly desired a reply. And one did not refuse the King of Destruction.

“Your Majesty. I am honored to be your guest. I—we of the Tannousin Clan are honored to serve you.”

She’d said ‘honored’ twice! But Nawal was speaking around the huge lump of sand in her throat, and she felt awkward and stupid. She bowed very low. Every eye was on her. There were voices still speaking, but most were listening to the King of Destruction. Flos smiled at Nawal and inclined his head.

“And I am honored to have a smith of the Tannousin clan in my lands. I hear—but time enough for that later. For now, Nawalishifra Tannousin, a rumor has reached my ears. A bit of gossip from my vassal, Gazi Pathseeker.”

Nawal glanced at Gazi. If looks could kill—but the Named Adventurer was grinning, and her looks could kill. Nawal’s voice trembled.

“A—a rumor, Your Majesty?”

What could Gazi have said? Then Nawal remembered, and her blood froze. No, not that. But it was too late. Flos was nodding.

“My loyal vassal, Gazi, tells me you think my days of glory were exaggerated. She tells me you were disappointed by what you saw of my palace. Is this so?”

The banquet hall went silent. It wasn’t a gradual silence, the last of the voices fading away, or even a sudden hush. Everyone just stopped. This time, Nawal felt the looks pierce her like spears. Orthenon looked up from his already-empty plate.

“I—I—I—”

I meant no disrespect. Don’t kill me! Please forgive—

Nawal’s stuttering voice cut off as Flos held up a hand. The King of Destruction didn’t look angry. If anything, he was smiling gently. He looked around at the others. There were not a lot of friendly stares, but the [King] captured their eyes before he spoke again.

“You are correct.”

Nawal breathed again. Flos held up a hand against the murmur of protest that rose up. He gestured around.

“Is it not so? In times past, my city was grander. And this was but one of the kingdoms that flourished. Perhaps my towers did not pierce the clouds, and perhaps the streets were not filled with gold, but yes, Nawalishifra. There were legends then.”

His subjects quieted. They looked and nodded, changing their minds from anger at the insult to…nostalgia? Flos gestured around.

“I recall a time when banquets in this castle were so plentiful that we could have filled every room and not had enough space to stand. Then again, this room is already overfull. But in those days, I recall standing outside and seeing every house filled with guests sitting on roofs. And [Lords] figuring out how to balance plates on thatched roofs. Do you recall that, Orthenon?”

“Yes, my King. As I remember it, five of our guests fell and broke bones.”

“They did, didn’t they?”

Flos looked around at the room. And Nawal, still standing stupidly, saw more than one head nod. She stared at older faces in the crowd. There was that sense, again, of legends becoming reality. They had been there. They had seen it.

That great head swung back, and Nawal stiffened again. But the smile Flos gave her was disarming.

“So fear not, Nawalishifra. I take no offence from your words. If anything, I agree and wish I could grant you the sights of old. But I cannot. And the fault of that is mine alone. I, who slumbered.”

He spread his arms, a cup of wine in hand. And who would gainsay the King of Destruction? Flos shook his head, but then he turned to a man sitting at his table. A [Mage] in robes. And next to him, two other [Mages] who sat across from some Stitch-People, warriors to look at them.

“Ulyse! Jelaim! Will you give our guests but a taste of what glories there used to be?”

The group looked up. Nawal vaguely recognized the [Mage] with the bright yellow parasol who stood and gave Flos a bow. Ulyse of Parasol Stroll smiled slightly.

“It would be our honor, Your Majesty. A small entertainment. Mirin? Palke? Asimi?”

The four [Mages] stood, then they swept across the table. Nawal felt a hand tug her down as the [Mages] walked past her, down the center aisle of the banquet hall. She saw Bezha gesturing her down and sat. But she looked back at Parasol Stroll. They walked towards the double doors in the center of the room and turned their backs to the room. Nawal, the audience, saw them raise their parasols. Unfold them.

Four brightly colored umbrellas opened. Only, they weren’t quite umbrellas. They were small, meant only to block the light. The four parasols twirled behind the [Mages] for a second, hypnotizing. Ulyse’s yellow-and blue parasol spun, hypnotizing the audience with its colors. And then as one, Parasol Stroll turned. And vanished.

It was like they’d turned a page in a book; as their bodies rotated, the rest of them that should have been there never appeared. So they turned and disappeared from sight. There was a slight gasp at that, but anyone who’d seen an [Invisibility] spell had seen something similar. The real show began a moment later.

Every light in the room suddenly went out. Candles, orbs of [Light], braziers—all vanished. Nawal felt a moment of panic and then realized the room was lighting back up. A blue, ephemeral light took the place of the darkness. And then, soaring upwards were butterflies.

Blue. Gold and violet. Red like blood. Pink and green and orange. Turquoise and magenta, every color imaginable. Even puce. They fluttered up from a man’s hands. And Ulyse’s words echoed.

“To the King of Destruction! To days of old, I present to you a small performance from Parasol Stroll. Watch, oh guests of Reim. And remember the light shows of old.”

He gestured. And a hundred more butterflies sprang from his fingertips, flying over the heads of his guests. The bright little things changed, became swooping owls and eagles and other birds. They flew up, circling the banquet hall. They flew up and up until they reached the ceiling and dove.

The audience ducked as the birds landed among them, but the light did them no harm. The birds shattered like glass against the ground, their bodies breaking into shards of light that bounced across the room and faded. When they looked up, Ulyse was gone.

“The King of Destruction.”

No one could tell where the voice came from at first. Then, suddenly, it was distinct. They turned back towards the doors and saw Mirin. Her parasol was indigo and teal, and it was spinning behind her. Faster and faster. She raised a hand, and from the ground, from the stone floor and air, suddenly there was water.

It rushed up around her, a river of liquid that shot up to the ceiling far overhead. It flowed around the [Mage] encasing her but never touching her. The water rushed past her, crashing down in a wave that dove over the heads of those seated. Again, some ducked, but the water didn’t touch those seated.

It crashed over and passed under the other tables. And there were cries of shock, because it turned out the illusion of water was no illusion after all! People jumped up as the water soaked their boots and feet. But Mirin just pointed, and the water rushed down the center aisle, a wave rolling towards the King of Destruction’s table, right past the Tannousin clan.

Nawal reached up and felt the water run through her fingers and down the hall. The King of Destruction laughed as the towering wave built and stopped in front of him. It crested and broke over his head and froze there. And vanished, falling into nothingness. Flos reached up, and a bit of water landed on his palm, melting away like liquid snow.

Laughter broke the awed silence. From the back of the room this time a group of people walked forwards. Not Parasol Stroll, but the Serpent Hunters. There were eight of them, all armed, and they carried curved daggers tipped with black venom. They stood four by four in two lines and began tossing their blades at each other.

Those nearest them ducked away, but the Serpent Hunters caught each blade and tossed it back, juggling it in the air first at the person directly across from them, then in a pattern, the first to the fourth, the second juggling every blade that came back to them, the third throwing alternately to the first and the forth, and so on.

The Serpent Hunters walked down the hall, juggling their weapons, and then, before it could dull, suddenly grabbed their weapons out of the air and tumbled sideways, placing their backs to the King of Destruction where he’d turned to look in his chair.

Jelaim, the leader of the Serpent Hunters, strode down the hall. He called a challenge, and his eight warriors mockingly took it up. They threw their weapons at him, first two and then four daggers. They passed within inches of Jelaim’s cheeks, sides, one through the gap between arm and armpit as he walked forwards in a sauntering pace. Then the warriors threw eight, all towards his chest.

They were going to hit! Jelaim paused. He bowed as the daggers flashed at his chest—then towards his face! There was a gasp—

And a [Mage] appeared. His parasol spun, red and black, and the daggers went flying! His parasol knocked them aside as if it were as strong as steel. The daggers flew erratically, but the [Mage] snapped his fingers, and they halted in the air. He folded his parasol with a flick and then waved it in the air, tracing something burning in the space above his head.

And then sparks filled the sky. They drifted down, bright, glowing embers of light. Only, this spell went wrong, because rather than go out or burn harmlessly, it turned out they were quite real! Half the audience ducked under the tables as the burning flames landed, and the abashed [Mage] waved them away. Jelaim laughed as he bounded onto a table.

“To the King of Destruction! Serpent Hunters, a show of arms!”

Two of his warriors unsheathed longer blades, a shortsword and a scimitar. They lunged at Jelaim, and he dueled them both, his blade flashing across the table as they pivoted and whirled, both lashing out with real envenomed blades, but never touching each other in a display of perfect skill. And then the [Mages] returned as one and cast a spell. Nawal and the other members of the audience looked up and gasped. They laughed; they shouted in horror and cheered.

For here were miracles. Here was magic and might and a sight to delight the eyes! But as Nawal watched, as her eyes travelled back to the laughing [King] on his throne and saw his boisterous laughter replaced by a melancholy smile on his face, she wondered what wonders had passed in this very room in days of old. Her heart hurt to imagine what had been lost.

The display went on for half an hour. Between the Serpent Hunters doing a few duels that took several minutes and three spells from Parasol Stroll going wrong and taking a bit of time to clean up, there was ample time for Nawal to rediscover her appetite and clear her plate twice.

When it was over, Parasol Stroll swept the King of Destruction a bow alongside the Serpent Hunters, and the applause filled the room, even from the group of people that were slightly singed, wet, or smelled mildly of turnips.

“My gratitude, Ulyse, Jelaim! You have captured a bit of the past, and for that I thank you.”

Flos got to his feet after the show had ended. He commanded silence and had it. The King of Destruction looked around and down at Orthenon.

“We have feasted my return. And welcomed our guests from Clan Tannousin! But now, I think, it is time. For I have heard there was a dispute between my [Smith], Daiton, and Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin. It seems both have forged a sword. And it falls to me to decide which is the better work. Is that so, Orthenon?”

“That is the quarrel as I understand it, Your Majesty. And both blades are present. Master Daiton.”

Orthenon stood up and gestured. The servants hurried to the back of the room and returned with a blade, wrapped in black cloth. At the same time, a man sitting at one of the tables nearby stood.

Daiton was pale as he stepped forwards. The King of Destruction turned, and Nawal and Silmak were already on their feet. They approached the King of Destruction as he stepped around his table and regarded both Daiton and Nawal. The young woman’s heart was beating out of her chest, but she enjoyed a moment of satisfaction at Daiton’s trembling knees.

“Master Daiton. You have one of your blades to show me?”

“I—”

Words failed Daiton for a second. He simply held up the sheathed blade. It was a lovely one, and the sheath was made of a bright leather crisscrossed by a rich red thread and betokened with a gold-leaf adornment on the tip and handle. When Flos unsheathed the blade, there was a murmur of admiration.

A blade gleamed in the light, and those close enough to see saw the delicate pattern of steel that Trey had mistakenly called true Damascus steel. But anyone with eyes to see—and that included Orthenon, Gazi, some of the warriors including Serpent Hunters as well as the King of Destruction himself—could tell that it was just a pattern of steel. As Flos smoothly unsheathed the blade and swung it, it did tear the air with a pleasing sound.

But that was it. It was a sword as good as you could find in many [Blacksmith]’s shops. Perhaps better than a low-level smith could ever craft, certainly a worthy blade for anyone who needed something of steel. But that was it. It was sharp. But no one would sing legends of this sword.

“I see. A fine piece of work, Master Daiton. One of your blades fit for an officer or perhaps even one of the nobility. The steel looks beautiful, as does the patterning.”

“Your Majesty honors me.”

Daiton hung his balding head, muttering. He shot a glance at Nawal, and she returned it, full of scorn. If he had not boasted of his work or challenged her, perhaps it would not have come to this! But then Orthenon was gesturing, and Flos laid Daiton’s work aside so the blade draped in black cloth could be revealed.

“This blade is the work of Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin, my lord. But the enchantment on it comes from Parasol Stroll.”

“From them? You mean, this blade was fit to be enchanted?”

Flos’ eyes sharpened as he reached for the cloth. Orthenon nodded slightly. Flos glanced around. To Nawal’s surprise, he looked straight at Teres, the girl who looked as plain as Trey sitting beside Gazi. Flos held her gaze before addressing Teres and the room.

“A blade cannot be enchanted unless the metal is exceedingly pure. And I am told Tannousin steel is so. But this was forged with Daiton’s metal, was it not? So let us see—ah.”

The note came as Flos pulled the black cloth back. The sword that the servants offered to him shone in the light. Nawal heard a susurration and felt her tense back straighten a bit.

A gleaming sword forged of pure steel rose in Flos’ hands. It had a simple handle with no guard, made of wood and carved in haste—that part wasn’t enchanted. But the metal of it, the single-edged blade slightly curved and given a wicked slashing edge was magical. Still, even had there been no enchantment, it would have still competed with Daiton’s ornate blade on looks alone.

“I see. This is a beautiful sword, isn’t it?”

Flos lifted the blade and swung it through the air. His hand blurred, and Nawal heard a gentle sound; the blade cut air without much noise. Flos balanced it with one finger, changed hands, and swung it with one hand, then two. He made the blade appear graceful in his hands; he knew how to use it like any master, Nawal could tell. He inspected the edge, tapping the blade thoughtfully, then tried to flex it, holding the back and handle. The metal barely flexed. Flos looked thoughtful.

“Enchanted by Parasol Stroll. Ulyse. Do you claim to have placed the strongest enchantment you could upon the weapon?”

The [Mage] nodded.

“To our ability, yes, Your Majesty. If we were more than four, we could have done a stronger enchantment. But linked, we were only able to place one of strengthening on it. It is still a match for most blades in terms of quality.”

“Hm. I see. Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin. Do you claim this blade is worthy of the enchantment it bears? Would you put your craft against Daiton’s as you claim?”

Flos turned to Nawal. She gulped, but in this at least, she was defending her clan’s pride. She answered back as boldly as she could, her voice quavering only a bit.

“As the sands are my witness, I do, Your Majesty! I call insult to the blades served by a master to the King of Destruction! They are not of pure steel and not worthy to be called a master’s work. My steel, humble though it may be and woman-forged, is barely worthy.”

A ripple went through the audience, and Daiton’s face drained further of blood. Flos only nodded.

“I see. Then I will test your claim.”

That threw Nawal. Did he mean to slice Daiton’s sword with hers? Hers was enchanted! That alone proved it was of better quality than his. But Orthenon seemed to know what Flos meant. The [Steward] gestured at the servants.

“Bricks. Here and here, to hold the sword up. Ten for each side. And a sledgehammer, I think. A maul will do if one can’t be found.”

The servants rushed out of the hall. Flos nodded. Nawal and Clan Tannousin stared in mounting horror as they saw what was happening.

Ten bricks of stone were carried in. They were placed on the ground, piled up, forming two columns. And on that column Nawal’s sword was placed, supported on both tip and handle. Next, a huge sledgehammer, capped by a heavy striking head for breaking stone—or armor—was brought to the King’s Steward. The man carrying it handed it to the King of Destruction. With one hand, Flos casually lifted it from the base of the handle and held it out as his audience watched.

Again, the King of Destruction turned and addressed the table behind him, ignoring the horrified look on Nawal’s face.

“I believe I once told you, Teres, that a proper sword with a proper enchantment could survive a blow from a warhammer. But the metal that makes the sword must be fine to hold the enchantment and forged just as perfectly. If the blade is weak, or the metal imperfect, the magic is likewise flawed. So. This is my test of Tannousin’s craft.”

Then he turned back to the sword resting on the blocks. With one hand, Flos lifted the sledgehammer, and before Nawal could close her eyes, brought it down on the center of the blade held up in the air by the bricks. She saw the sledgehammer connect perfectly in the center and heard a crash of sound.

And her sword crunched. Not the metal—but the handle and sword tip! With nowhere to go, they tore through the bricks piled up underneath, cracking them with the force of the blow. The sword itself barely even flexed, but the bricks shattered, and the sword tumbled to the ground. There was a burst of sound, but hardly louder than the roaring in Nawal’s ears. She stumbled, and Silmak caught her. But there, in the remains of the bricks, dusty, but perfectly intact, was her sword.

Flos held the hammer to the servant and bent to pick it up. He inspected the blade and shook his head.

“Unharmed. A strong enchantment and the metal itself is just as powerfully made.”

Nawal felt light-headed. She smiled victoriously behind her veil as Flos turned to Daiton. The man was looking down at the crushed blocks, swaying on his feet. He looked like he might faint.

“Daiton.”

Flos had to say his name twice before the [Smith]’s head jerked up. The King of Destruction gestured to Nawal’s sword in his hands.

“Daiton. This sword is beautiful. And, I think, beyond what you have made. Do you dispute this?”

“No. No, Your Majesty. I cannot. It surpasses my own. And—Nawalishifra of Clan…she did it in a day. With my steel, sire. I cannot match that feat.”

Daiton whispered. Nawal’s excitement faded as she saw the old man had tears in his eyes. Daiton slowly looked at his sword and bowed his head.

“I’m ashamed. But I will retire my hammer. I cannot call myself a master if a smith half my age can outperform me so. None of my blades could hold such an enchantment.”

He turned to go, stumbling, but Flos held up a hand.

“Hold, Daiton.”

The man stopped and turned back. Flos held up Nawal’s blade. He glanced at Nawal now.

“Nawalishifra of Clan Tannousin. Daiton is my master blacksmith, and I gave him the charge of forging my armies their arms and armor because of his skill. You have placed a superior blade in my hands. But I have a question for you, Nawalishifra. Do you then claim you can do Daiton’s work? Provide my armies with steel for all the tens or hundreds of thousands who join my rank?”

He gestured towards the sword he held. Nawal gulped. A hundred thousand? She could barely forge one sword every day, and she’d forced herself to get one done! If she had to refine metal for more blades, even if her clan helped her, no, even if she had apprentices…

Silmak broke in, his voice high with nerves.

“Your Majesty, I am ashamed to say that would be impossible, even for the best smith of the Tannousin. We forge a single blade of masterpiece slowly. We could never hope to supply an army, let alone the numberless warriors who serve the King of Destruction.”

Flos nodded.

“I see. But that is what I require from my master of smiths. Daiton may not produce a blade of this quality, but his swords are strong steel, and he can make enough to outfit an army. Hm. It is a quandary. On one hand, I cannot deny the fact that Nawalishifra’s blade is the better one. But if she cannot produce more than a single blade, am I to give the rest of my [Soldiers] rocks?”

He glanced meaningfully around. Orthenon nodded briskly, and some of the other warriors in the room were doing the same. Then Flos’ eyes settled on Nawal. And suddenly, she had a horrible realization.

Of course Flos knew Daiton wasn’t able to produce blades worthy of enchantment. Of course he knew Nawal was the better smith—probably before he’d even seen the blades! He was the King of Destruction and a seasoned warrior in his own right. He had to know the quality of Daiton’s blades. But he was content with that.

And he was right—he didn’t need enchanted blades for regular soldiers, just good steel, produced as fast as Daiton could manage it. But Nawal had challenged him and, in doing so, insulted the King of Destruction in his halls by showing his smith up.

But he was giving her a chance. Nawal forced saliva into her mouth and spoke up loudly.

“Your Majesty. I—I cannot forge steel as fast as Master Daiton. I am slow, and my purpose is to make and forge Naq-Alrama steel. In that, I will humbly serve, but I could never replace your master of smiths. I humbly withdraw my sword from comparing it to Master Daiton’s and beg your forgiveness—and his—for the insult.”

She bowed as low to the ground as she could. She heard more voices around her and then a quiet again. Flos nodded.

“Raise your head, Nawalishifra. I do not take offence. And I am grateful to have laid my eyes on a blade this peerless. As for Daiton, I think he is humbled in his own way, but I think the matter is closed.”

Nawal did raise her head. She saw Daiton nodding fervently and nodded as well.

“I beg for forgiveness, Your Majesty. I did not mean to bring insult, and I did not realize the difference in what was sought. I only saw the…the quality of metal.”

Flos inclined his head. He turned to face the rest of the room and, in doing so, picked up Daiton’s blade. He held both side by side.

“Well and so. Remember this, to all who listen. Yes, I do not expect any enchanted blades from my forges. But Master Daiton’s art is, in his way, peerless. For he makes [Smiths] out of apprentices with ease and can create swords I am proud to give my [Soldiers]. I would not ask him to make me a blade capable of slaying Dragons. But when I call for my armies, I know they will be armed with the finest steel he has made and count myself lucky to have his services.”

He looked back at Daiton and bowed his head slightly. Nawal heard someone bang on the table—Jelaim, banging his cup. And then there was applause. Daiton looked up, tears in his eyes, and knelt, shoulders shaking as he wept. Flos looked at Nawal.

“My smith indeed. I commend Daiton and his apprentices. And yes, I do need blades that can be enchanted. But that is why you have been summoned, Clan Tannousin. I expect you to live up to your reputation as the peerless smiths of the desert. You have already proven your skill. Continue to do so and I will reward you with my gratitude equal to your labors.”

He looked down at Nawal and Silmak. The two knelt, and both pledged to forge Flos the greatest blades of Naq-Alrama steel he had ever laid eyes upon. And Nawal meant it. As she rose and shook Daiton’s hands and apologized again to the teary-eyed smith, she saw how Flos had engineered all of this night so that neither Daiton nor Nawal would bear the offence of her petty feud.

And she admired him. Admired and feared. But she was no longer petrified as she sat down in her seat. She looked up at him as he sat, still inspecting her blade and chatting to his [Steward] and wondered if this story might be told about the Tannousin clan fires someday. That of the foolish girl [Smith] who had challenged herself against his [Blacksmith] and failed to best him. Would they say she was foolish for missing the point? Or that the King of Destruction had cleverly twisted it so that the outcome was a draw? Would they tell legends of her?

Now that was a terrifying, and incredible, thought.



——



The banquet ended. Oh, there were no doubt other events of note, at least from Clan Tannousin’s side, wonders and things to think deeply on, but to the King of Destruction, there was less wonder and more mundanity. He enjoyed himself of course, but Nawal was right that he had tasted delicacies and hosted banquets that people still told stories about. So the food and drink was a passing pleasure, and Flos retired after two more hours to his room.

There he summoned Orthenon, his [Steward]. The man was actually waiting outside his door, having anticipated Flos’ summons. He slipped in as Flos was sitting with a cup of mulled wine.

“My lord?”

“I’ve been thinking, Orthenon. Trey and Teres both call me by my name, usually without honorifics. It’s been so long, and the casual appellation is somewhat delightful. People in their world are usually so informal. Would you ever consider doing the same?”

The [Steward] paused as he came to sit across from his ruler.

“I don’t believe I ever would, sire.”

“A pity. Gazi said the same thing. Mars tried it, but she gave up.”

Flos sighed. He hadn’t really expected anything different from Orthenon. It was a mark of their bond that Orthenon even sat in his presence; he was a man who believed in formality, and though he was as much friend as vassal to Flos, he couldn’t bear to be too informal. As one might expect of a man who’d been raised in the Drath Archipelago.

“Never mind. I’ve given you my instructions regarding the Quarass. I don’t intend to keep you—will you set out tonight?”

“As soon as we finish speaking, Your Majesty. I will send Venith and Maresar back. Then Mars when I reach Hellios.”

“Good. I could use Mars. And Gazi too, if her eye were healed. You and they are the only things keeping our enemies from assaulting us. They fear you, and rightly so.”

“They will have more cause if Germina and Hellios’ armies both join with yours.”

“True. But even then, do you think that Nerrhavia would fear us? Or Fetohep’s armies of Khelt? No, no. It is my Seven that shook the world the first time. And I fear that without all of my Seven, this undertaking may yet fail.”

Orthenon was silent for a moment, and Flos knew he was taking his words seriously. Of course. Orthenon had plotted Reim’s strategy countless times, and he was the one who had led their armies to devastating victory after victory along with Queravia.

“Takhatres is stalling the Empire of Sands himself. But when he returns, we will have two armies, and one of them devastating by any measure. If we have time, I can bring you an army that could fight even a coalition of states with you leading them and Mars and I supporting. And should Gazi heal, we won’t need to watch our backs. However…”

“We still lack for [Mages]. Yes. And that is a void only filled by Amerys.”

The two men fell silent. Flos stared into his cup. Orthenon stared at him, then the window, which reflected the dark desert and city of Reim.

“It is not like her to be silent, Your Majesty. If she truly did turn traitor—”

Flos held up a hand.

“What is there to betray? I left her and my kingdom. Her wrath would be expected. Ah, but Orthenon—I’d expect her [Message] at least. I’m sure Wistram has something over her, but to think they could hold her this long? Even with two Archmages, I would still place my faith in her.”

“Perhaps there were three.”

“Perhaps. Wistram has not deigned to answer my challenge. And I must have Amerys. Orthenon, I am troubled by her absence. But I realize I cannot dwell on it. Germina is now our ally, or so I hope, and let that be enough to give other nations pause. If the Quarass…no. You will do as you see fit. Enough, let’s talk of something happier before you leave.”

Flos sat up and smiled at his old friend. Orthenon gave him a brief smile as well. Someone could mistake him for being emotionless or cold. But that was only because they had never seen Orthenon’s wrath or heard him laugh. Such events were rare, but Flos cherished each memory.

“As His Majesty wishes. Then what of the sword you held? How is the sword of the Tannousin smith?”

Flos raised an eyebrow.

“Fine? It was a sword of pure steel. I’ve held similar enchanted weapons before. But—then again, it is excellent work for a single day. I wager half the Dwarf [Smiths] I’ve ever met would be hard-pressed to pull off such a feat.”

“I agree. I had reservations upon seeing a female [Smith] from the Tannousin tribe. But they have brought Naq-Alrama steel. Do you intend them to forge you a personal sword?”

Flos waved his cup idly.

“Well, one would be nice to have. My old sword was enchanted quite wonderfully, while a Naq-Alrama sword is but a mage-killer. I was thinking of asking for a spear for you, Orthenon. And blades for Takhatres on top of a sword for myself. What do you think?”

The King of Destruction was pleased by the grin that lit up Orthenon’s face.

“I would be delighted.”

“I thought you might. Naq-Alrama steel is worth paying a fortune for, even if we get only a handful of weapons out of it. But if I can convince this Nawalishifra to stay, I would benefit from more weapons of that quality. It will be tricky, but Trey has a way with people, or so it seems.”

Orthenon frowned. Flos knew he didn’t quite like Trey as much as Teres and still regarded the twins as oddities, potentially dangerous ones.

“I confess that I do not know Trey as well as you do, my King. But you have an eye for people I lack. If his presence may persuade the Tannousin clan, by all means let him stay with them. He was part of the impetus of today’s bet.”

“Ah. You see? I must have a talk with him tonight. Send him here as you go, would you?”

Flos laughed hugely. This was what he enjoyed. The randomness and unpredictability of people. Gold was stagnant, and magic got old. But people? Each one was different, and those that interested him seldom failed to disappoint.

Orthenon pensively watched as Flos took a drink of his wine.

“In truth, I still wonder about her competence, Your Majesty. Nawalishifra looks too young to be a full-blooded [Blacksmith] by her tribe’s standards. She is obviously quite good, but I once heard that a [Blacksmith] had to be Level 40 to work Naq-Alrama steel.”

“So did I. And yes, I doubt she’s at that level. And the actual forging of a blade is only half of a [Blacksmith]’s work. Preparing the metal is just as important. But her father apparently forged that ingot before his passing, so perhaps it is in her capabilities. If it isn’t? We will see.”

The [Steward] nodded. That they would. He cast a glance towards the door, and Flos knew their time was nearly at an end. He grasped for a few more sentences before they left. Something fun. Idle chatter. He would miss Orthenon for however long the man took to settle Hellios and Germina. The task might take him weeks or months, but Orthenon never protested, no matter how arduous his work.

“A funny thing. I’m told Naq-Alrama steel is twice as tricky to forge as mithril, but no one speaks of Adamantine.”

“Perhaps because few know how to forge it themselves. And it is such a rare metal.”

“Easy to miss, or so I’m told. I heard a [Miner] once dug up a huge vein. He thought the stuff was useless, so he sold it to a [Bricklayer] to make cheap bricks of. It apparently isn’t that hard unless processed.”

“It is not.”

“Ah! Then that explains it. You see, one day, a Dwarf from Terandria visited the city the [Bricklayer] was working in, and he came across a wall built of the stuff. Can you imagine, Orthenon? Enough metal to make several breastplates of pure Adamantine baked into the side of a crumbling wall!”

Flos chuckled, and Orthenon smiled.

“If I spot any, I will bring it back, my King. But I must be off. Have you any surprises to offer me before I go?”

Flos did. But he knew that would prompt a final discussion, so he’d been holding it in until the last moment. But now was the time. He sighed as he put his drink aside and leaned forwards.

“A few surprises, but all necessary as I will convince you, old friend. Firstly, I intend to issue an edict, Orthenon. An edict, and perhaps reform one of the units of old.”

“That would be welcome on both counts. Have we the resources for a unit?”

The [King] shrugged.

“We brought back some treasure from Hellios and Germina. I will see, but it is on my mind. But the true surprise for you and the world is that I’m planning on conducting in that most displeasing of enterprises. Diplomacy. The world waits for me to declare war again, and the kingdoms and nations of Chandrar already plot my downfall. So I intend to give them something else to think about.”

Orthenon’s brows shot up and together sharply. He hadn’t expected this, which made Flos happy. If he hadn’t, it was likely no one else would be expecting this either.

“What do you intend to send to the other nations of Chandrar, Your Majesty?”

He had a wary look on his face, as if he might have to physically restrain Flos—as he’d done more than once—from making a stupid mistake. But Flos was confident Orthenon would see the merit of this plan. He smiled broadly and sat back in his chair.

“Peace, Orthenon. I intend to issue a world-wide declaration of peace.”

A bark of surprised laughter came out of Orthenon’s mouth, a moment of true levity. He laughed, and Flos committed the moment forever in his mind. But the King of Destruction didn’t laugh with Orthenon. He raised one eyebrow.

“It wasn’t a joke.”



——



Trey Atwood sat in the banquet. He ate in the banquet. He had some of his hair catch on fire in the banquet when one of the Parasol Stroll mages did his fire trick. He watched Nawal during the banquet. This was what Trey Atwood did.

He thought Nawal looked very relieved after she sat down at her table, but he didn’t get a chance to talk with her. And she disappeared too soon afterwards. He hadn’t seen her after he’d caught her from fainting—and nearly been tackled by that huge guard, Hesseif, and Bezha, who may or may not be Nawal’s mother.

But it didn’t surprise Trey, honestly. Nawal and her entire tribe had looked overwhelmed by the King of Destruction’s scrutiny—and his presence. She had already collapsed once from her task of smithing, so they retired quickly after the banquet started winding down.

That left Trey with Gazi. Only, Gazi left the table first, and Flos and Orthenon left shortly thereafter. And so Trey was left with Teres at last.

Trey had eaten during the banquet. And chatted to Gazi and watched the show and worried for Nawal. What he hadn’t really done was talk to Teres. Things were still awkward between them.

Oh, they’d said hello. Trey recalled them reuniting after the week or so apart. She’d found him playing with his sand sprites and wondering to himself if Nawal would be okay.

“Hey. I’m back.”

“Oh. That’s grand. How was it?”

“Good. It was—okay, here’s what happened…”

And they’d talked. Teres had given Trey a full accounting of what had gone down with Flos and the Quarass and Hellios, and he’d been properly amazed and asked questions, but at no point had he sat down right next to her and leaned on her shoulder or vice-versa. At no point had they begun talking so fast their words overlapped or hugged each other or…or felt close.

They felt like friends. Or family members. Or like brother and sister, even, but not like twins, which is what they were. So close they could sometimes know what the other was thinking. But now Trey couldn’t tell what Teresa thought. She had changed. And so had he.

They’d fought. And they still hadn’t figured out how to come back together. Trey wondered if they ever would. He wondered if they should. They’d been so angry at each other at the time.

Gloomily, Trey picked at his food. He kept glancing up at Teres because he had the feeling she was doing it when he wasn’t looking. Finally, there was a point when they both looked up at the same time and caught each other staring.

“Uh.”

“What?”

“I was just—”

“Okay, fine, but it’s only—”

They stopped. And grinned at each other, because they’d had a moment of simultaneous understanding.

What? I was just checking to see if you were checking. Okay, fine, but it’s only because I want to talk to you. Idiot.

She missed him after all. Trey scooted closer, taking over Gazi’s spot. Teres rolled her eyes.

“You think she sat between us on purpose?”

“Could be. She’s like that. Sometimes she’s nice—”

“Hah!”

“She is! But she hides it. I told you. And sometimes she likes being mean. Like she was to Nawal. But she’s never really mean—”

“Tell that to His Majesty. He told me all kinds of things on the road. Gazi’s dangerous, Trey. She was a slave once, you know that?”

“I do.”

“Well…he found her and raised her, and I guess she was a lot more timid. But she became one of his Seven by killing a lot of people. A lot.”

“I know. She said she got to be one of Flos’ best vassals by playing up being scary.”

“I don’t think scary’s the right word. Here’s what I heard she did once from Flos. There was this spy, and she ate both his eyes and then—”

“Excuse me, Sir Trey. His Majesty requests your presence at once.”

Trey and Teres jumped. They saw one of the servants beckoning to Trey. He swallowed a moment of disappointment and then an impulse to tell the servant to go away. That might work on Flos, well maybe, but his servants treated the King of Destruction’s words like law, and they would drag Trey if need be.

“Me? But—what about you, Teres?”

He looked at his sister, hoping she would come with him. But the servant just shook his head.

“His Majesty ordered only your presence. This way.”

He was already impatient. Teres made a face.

“I bet he wants to talk to you about all kinds of stuff from our home—”

She waggled her eyebrows, although Trey wasn’t sure how secret their secret really was to begin with.

“—to you. I couldn’t handle it. Go on. I’ll talk to you tonight.”

“Promise?”

“Promise. And you can tell me about that veiled girl. She’s a [Blacksmith]?”

Trey sighed as he saw Teres’ disapproving look to where Nawal had been. He slid out of his chair and followed the [Servant], who set a quick trot through the castle.

“In here.”

The [Servant] pointed Trey to a room Trey was vaguely familiar with. It wasn’t Flos’ bedroom, but a sitting room Flos sometimes used. It had a lovely view and a balcony. The King of Destruction was using that when Trey entered the room.

“Ah, Trey. I’m grateful you’re here. Thank you—Eim, isn’t it? Your father used to deliver me a nightcap when I was younger.”

Flos thanked the [Servant], and Trey found a seat rather than look at the way the manservant’s eyes would light up. He heard the door close after a moment of conversation, and Flos came over to sit down. The King of Destruction smiled at Trey. He had a cup of wine in his hand, half-empty.

“It has been a long time since we spoke, hasn’t it? A week? It feels like months! Would you like a drink? Something else to eat?”

“No thank you, Your Majesty. I was talking with my sister. We hadn’t seen each other either.”

Trey pointedly glanced at the door. Flos paused, and Trey felt a moment’s pinch of conscience. Flos was nothing but kind mostly, and aside from the slave thing, which Trey had been forbidden from bringing up (and had given up trying because Flos wouldn’t listen even when he tried), he was good to talk to. But Trey couldn’t bring himself to be as casual and say ‘Flos’ like Teres did. And he was peeved about not speaking to Teres.

“Ah, my apologies, Trey. I’d forgotten the bonds of siblings. No, twins. But I hope you two will chat tonight. Teres did mention missing you on the road.”

“Did she?”

Trey perked up a bit. Flos smiled.

“Don’t tell her I said that. I won’t keep you overlong. But I did wish to call you here to talk. You know it eases my mind to talk to you two.”

“Is this more stuff about history? Teres said you pestered her all about war and our world.”

Flos shook his head, which relieved Trey a bit.

“No, no. I just wanted—well, a willing ear, I’ll confess.”

The [King] looked actually embarrassed as he shifted in his seat. Trey looked nonplussed, so Flos explained.

“You see, Trey, it is enjoyable to see your reaction as someone not of this world. You are one of a handful of people I am able to speak to without a level of…distance. As a [King]. And explaining concepts to you, or informing you or Teres of my plans, helps firm them in my mind. I used to do that to the other of my Seven back in the day. Not Mars or Gazi—or Orthenon—Mars is a terrible listener at times, Gazi gets bored, and Orthenon is too serious and too sharp.”

“Who’d you talk to, then? Takhatres? Amerys? Or…the others?”

Trey tried to remember the other three of the Seven. Drevish he knew, the [Architect]. But the other two were…

The [King] noticed Trey’s moment of hesitation. He smiled sadly.

“Takhatres was good to talk to. Amerys was almost as poor a listener as Mars. The three you’re thinking of are Drevish, Queravia, and Tottenval. They were my companions of choice for these kinds of talks.”

“Why them?”

“Why not? Well, perhaps because all three had different qualities. Drevish was an [Architect], one of two of my Seven not suited to war, so he had no patience for grand strategies. He would listen and give me his frank—and quite sharp!—opinions. But he would listen, and his ideas were fascinating, as you might expect from someone who could build a castle out of water in the desert.”

“He did that?”

“Oh yes, to prove he could. It used up so much magic, and Orthenon was so furious…but it was a grand sight, and I think I gave Drevish an entire vintage of wines to celebrate. Ah, but where was I? Drevish was one, and Tottenval another. Both cared little for war. Have I told you about Tottenval?”

“No. Only that he died at sea.”

“Yes. It was…he died saving my life where no one else could. And he was no warrior, but a [Gardener]. Not even a magical one. He made Reim bloom and fed my entire kingdom. A Beastkin from Baleros. I will tell you of his passing someday. But not today. Not now.”

Flos shook his head, a shadow crossing his features. He took a long drink of wine, as if to banish it.

“Tottenval was good to talk to, mainly because he was so incurious. I would tell him some grand scheme Queravia and Orthenon had concocted or of our latest enemies and their might, and he would say, ‘so?’ As if it were the most mundane thing in the world! That would only make me try and describe the magnificence of what I saw to him even harder until he got it or I realized how trivial the matter really was. The perspective of a [Gardener], Trey.”

Trey nodded, trying to imagine Tottenval in his head. He wondered how he had died. And how he had saved Flos’ life.

“I get it. But what about Queravia? Weren’t you…”

This time, Trey was afraid to say it. Hints from Mars and Gazi had helped him here, but Flos’ expression had changed. It wasn’t just grief, and the King of Destruction’s fine metal cup bore the imprint of his hand when he lowered it this time.

“Yes. We were close. If that was what you were asking. Who told you? Mars? Gazi? Someone…no. Another topic. Another time. Yes, I loved talking with her just because her company was enjoyable. That was all.”

Flos got up and refilled his goblet. Trey stared at his back until Flos sat down again. This time, the King of Destruction shook his head.

“Another time. Why did I bring that up? Ah, merely to say that I enjoy talking to you and Teres in the same way, Trey. And I would like you to know more about my enemies. You see, I’m about to put into place a rather daring plan—at least in some senses of the word. But I’m not entirely confident in it. Or rather, I suspect only some of my enemies will accept my proposal, and I’d like to think over the others.”

“What’re you going to do?”

“Send a message. Which reminds me, if anything lands on the balcony let me know, would you? I’m expecting a guest before I retire.”

Flos pointed over his shoulder at the balcony. Trey craned his neck around, frowning. The King of Destruction waved at him to sit back down.

“Later, later. For now, a little lesson.”

“I get those from Gazi every day. And Orthenon too!”

“Ah, but do they teach you geography? The affairs of other nations?”

“Yes. All the time.”

The King of Destruction looked put out.

“Well, I’m preparing my own lesson. How well do you know the other nations bordering ours? Belchan? Jecrass? Khelt?”

Trey squirmed in his seat.

“I can point them out on a map. But I need to see one.”

Flos grimaced.

“A map? I could order one brought, but maps of nations are always changing. And if I do that, I’m liable to spill this wine at some point, and Orthenon will kill me if I ruin…no, I have a better idea. A moment!”

He raised his voice. Trey didn’t know who was listening, but the door instantly opened, and the servant, Eim, poked his head through.

“Your Majesty has a wish?”

“Parchment and ink, please, Eim. Scrap parchment I think, but large enough for a table. And…hm, these tables are too short. A larger table.”

“At once.”

The door closed. Trey stared at Flos.

“You’re going to draw a map?”

“Of course. It sounds entertaining, and I do know the various nations. But while I wait—there was something else I was going to do, Trey. Issue an edict and form a unit.”

“What, like a proclamation? And why a unit?”

Trey frowned at Flos. The [King] chuckled.

“Sort of. I’m not talking about regular edicts and units of soldiers, though. I’m referring to a [King]’s Skills. It’s past time you learned more of mine.”

“Isn’t it dangerous for me to know?”

“Dangerous as in secret? No, I imagine most of my Skills are well-known. And I want to explain this because I’m wrestling with which edict to issue. You see—hm, how should I explain this? Well, you know that as a [King], many of my Skills affect my kingdom, don’t you, Trey?”

The young man nodded. Flos nodded as well.

“It’s a boon, especially if you consider how large a kingdom can be. And a single Skill can do…ah, so much! Now, generally kingdom-wide Skills are rare, even for rulers to obtain. I have a few, like a Skill that allows my soldiers to level up quicker. That is a very powerful Skill, if a low-level one for a [King] specializing in war. But just having it can make my nation more powerful than one without a high-level [King] over time, you see?”

Trey did see.

“So your powers affect your kingdom, but not yourself as much. That’s why you’re weaker than Mars in battle.”

“Exactly. Her Skills are almost all specific to herself. But mine affect more people. Both have their merits, but one thing a ruler can do is issue…temporary Skills. Or should I say, conditional Skills? For instance, I have the power to issue an edict over my lands. But only one, and should I issue another, it will replace the first.”

“Oh. That’s exactly like a video game. Like a buff. I get it.”

The King of Destruction paused, looking miffed.

“I’d forgotten how much these video games of yours resemble this world. I must try one on that phone of yours.”

“It’s out of battery, remember?”

“Hm. Yes. Drat. I recall. If only there was a way…you had that cord thing, don’t you? Maybe Ulyse could charge it. He can conjure lightning, if not as much as Amerys.”

Trey sincerely doubted Ulyse’s ability to conjure electricity would do anything but fry his iPhone, but he nodded.

“Maybe…but go on about edicts.”

“Hm, yes. I can only have one. And before you say that it is a simple task—an edict shapes my will and my kingdom. I cannot change it as easily as one might change boots. It’s just like blessings, honestly.”

“Blessings?”

Flos waved a hand.

“A type of Skill that monarchs gain. Again, you may only have one active. [Blessing of Rains], for instance, was considered a wonder in Chandrar because it guaranteed regular rainfall, however little. I have one and only one. But edicts? I have three. And each is powerful, but comes with a cost, so I have not been willing to use one yet. But with three nations nominally under my control, it is time to use one.”

“Okay then. What are they?”

Trey leaned forward, a bit excited despite himself. Flos took a drink, smiling.

“Neither Drevish nor Tottenval. Well, my edicts are [Edict of Bloom], [Edict of Silversky], and [Edict of the Blooded]. Care to guess what each does?”

“Er, I don’t know about Silversky, but one sounds like restoration and the other like war.”

The [King] looked pleased.

“Correct! The [Edict of Bloom] revitalizes a war-torn kingdom. Ideal for Germina and Hellios, although we’ve hardly razed much. But Reim would benefit. It allows crops to grow quicker, wounds to mend, children to be born and conceived more fruitfully and quickly among animals and people—”

“Wait, born quicker? That’s not on!”

“Why not? A child will be born in six months fully formed rather than nine for a Human mother.”

“But you can’t just—wouldn’t it make her hungrier or—how does that work?”

Flos shrugged.

“I think mothers do get hungrier, but the time of plenty affects all things, Trey. By contrast, [Edict of the Blooded] boosts preparation for war. All those with an inclination to fight level up much quicker, and those with the talent for battle discover it.”

Trey thought that sounded reasonable. Mothers giving birth faster and crops growing sounded like way too much power to him. He saw why Flos had waited though; with Germina and Hellios under his command, he’d have lots more crops growing, and in the spring too!

“Okay, but what’s [Edict of Silversky]? Does it turn the sky silver?”

“No. But it does change the weather. I think the Skill comes from the nature of silver as a pure metal, rather than anything else. You see, I gained the Skill during a particularly bad set of sandstorms that threatened my kingdom. The [Edict of Silversky] is a purifying edict. Under its effects, lies are difficult to tell, the weather balances, and hostile presences find themselves unwelcome in my kingdom. Most importantly, it frees the dreams and feelings of my subjects from negative influence, and that is sometimes more than just external. Those who find themselves plagued by sadness or fury without reason calm, and I consider it the best of my edicts to use in times of peace.”

“Huh. That does sound nice. It almost sounds like that edict, uh, purifies bad thoughts. Like someone with depression. Imbalances in the head.”

“You think so too? We did talk about medicine, didn’t we? If only we had some [Doctors] from your world. Hm. But yes, it is a valuable edict and the one with least consequence. But I fear it will be the [Edict of Bloom] or the [Edict of the Blooded] I call upon.”

Trey frowned and sipped from his sweet cup of grape juice. It was excellent, really.

“What’s the negatives of using either edict? Shouldn’t a Skill be helpful?”

Flos sighed.

“Edicts are temporary, Trey. As such, their effects are more pronounced, and there are disadvantages. The [Edict of Bloom] may invigorate my lands, but it is also a time of strife, for monsters will take advantage of the rapid growth as well. Too, the rapid growth takes nutrients from the soil, and as you pointed out, mothers require more sustenance, as do animals. It is intensive on the people, for we may reap harvests and grow, but it takes work.”

“And the [Edict of the Blooded]? Wait—do people get violent?”

“Ah, you understand. Yes, my people train to war, but it encourages them towards battle, sometimes with tragic results. If I used it, Hellios might see more rebellions by young men, and I would receive reports of higher rates of injury among my soldiers. It is a tradeoff.”

“What does the [Edict of Silversky] do, then?”

“It simply makes things calm. Pure to the extent that it is sometimes agonizing. No harsh weather, no great storms, no lies—imagine not telling a lie for a month, Trey. People crave excitement, if in small amounts. It is an edict I use after a long time of unrest.”

Trey nodded. Now that Flos said it, all three edicts sounded like trouble in their own way.

“So which will you use? Will you use any of them?”

Flos grimaced.

“I must. It is an advantage I cannot turn down. And I think—yes, I think the [Edict of Bloom] is the one I must use now that I say it out loud. War may be imminent, but it is spring, and there is no better time for it. We will be able to reap two spring harvests or an earlier autumnal harvest this way.”

He gently slapped his hands together. Trey flinched, expecting the edict to begin right then and there, but Flos just shook his head.

“I will issue it tomorrow. It requires at least a bit of ceremony, and I wouldn’t spring it on my subjects. They will know what to expect. Now, onto units. If I explain edicts, we should explain units before my servants return.”

He gestured at the door. Trey blinked, wondering why it was taking them so long. Flos grinned.

“They’re probably trying to find a table they can fit through the doors and parchment worthy of me writing on it. Never mind. Units are simple, Trey. And they are a Skill that reflects across [Generals] as well. We may designate a group to have certain…qualities. To be granted powers simply by inducting new members.”

“You mean, like a group of warriors who all have flaming swords?”

“Ah, exactly. Except that if it’s my Skill, they don’t need to have enchantments on their blades. Their swords will simply burst into flame when they draw them. They’ll have burning armor too, I suppose, although that would be inconvenient.”

Trey’s jaw dropped. He’d only meant that as an example!

“That’s good too! Why haven’t you made one of them yet? Wait…”

Flos was twirling a finger, smiling. Trey thought and applied a video game’s logic to the answer.

“…You can’t yet because you haven’t met the requirements.”

“Ah! A splendid answer! That’s exactly it, Trey. I have several units I could call into being, and none of them I can yet form. Some units are simple to create—such as only needing some [Riders] to form a cavalry-based unit like [Driftwind Riders], who always have the wind at their backs. But more powerful units require certain conditions be met. For instance, a group of riders who also all wear heavy armor to become the [Steelshorn Relentless]. In which case their armor—which was already a pain to deal with—becomes twice as thick. Thankfully, they weren’t immune to lightning.”

Flos sighed as he poured Trey a refill of his drink. Trey gulped some more down.

“So how’ll you fix that problem?”

“By checking on how many enchanted blades we have. I don’t need too many, just a hundred or so—”

“A hundred?”

“—to form the weakest of my units, yes. Even if all the blades are only slightly magical, turning a hundred soldiers into a unit would make them considerably stronger in battle. But I don’t think I took that many. The Quarass’ treasury and Hellios’ had gold and other artifacts I’ll have Gazi sort through, but not quite enough blades.”

Again, Flos sighed. Trey choked on his wine.

“You robbed both treasuries? I thought you allied with the Quarass!”

The King of Destruction tugged on his beard.

“Of course. But I still need gold, and her artifacts were going to waste. I will share with her of course, but as our armies will fight together, my officers need them most. Venith’s shield is enchanted, but he could use some enchanted armor like the old days. And if I had a few artifacts for Parasol Stroll…”

Trey sat back in his chair. That was Flos for you. One second talking about the benefits and demerits of Skills, the next casually robbing kingdoms of their treasures. He heard the door open.

“Your Majesty, sincerest apologies for the wait. We have a chair and table as well as the parchment and ink—”

“Ah, Eim, wonderful. Place it here. Trey, move these chairs back.”

Ignoring the servant’s protests, Flos casually pulled his chair back, and they brought a huge table in with six men. And parchment and ink. Trey stared at it as it filled the quiet sitting room, quite out of place, but Flos seemed pleased.

“Thank you. That will be all. Trey, gather around here. Time to see the heart of tonight’s little discussion. I am going to show you Reim’s enemies. At least our immediate ones.”

He laughed heartily. Trey walked around the table to Flos’ side. The King of Destruction was already dipping his quill into the ink pot, murmuring to himself as he drew.

“Let’s see. I suppose I’ll start with Chandrar, shall I? Not all of it, since the perspective needs to be closer. But if I do the eastern and northern parts…there. And here’s Reim. You see it?”

Trey did, and he’d seen the map of Chandrar enough times to know it looked like a lowercase ‘R’, at least, that was how he thought of it. The western half was longer than the eastern, but it was wider than it was long. Okay, a really stretched lowercase ‘R’.

But what had shaken Trey when Orthenon had first pointed them out on the map was how small Reim was. Flos didn’t seem to mind, and he pointed out the little blob of Reim proudly to Trey.

“We are in the northeast of Chandrar, one of the countries bordering the great desert. As a consequence, Reim is dry, as are the nations around us. Germina, Hellios, especially Khelt…you see? Germina is north of us, Hellios northeast. Both are so close by, so they contributed most to the army that attacked Reim.”

The King of Destruction drew two small nations up from Reim. Trey squinted at the map, confused. It didn’t look like the one Orthenon had.

“Hold on, Fl—er, Your Majesty. I thought Reim didn’t border Hellios and Germina until now. It was even smaller than this, and there were some cities between us. Which you took over.”

Flos waved a hand.

“Of course. Not all lands are held by one kingdom. There are individual cities here and there, areas ruled by tribes…lesser countries who come and go around Reim to the south here. I’ll just draw a few of the ones that I know. But I excluded the ones north of Reim and the others because I can’t be bothered to draw every single one in.”

“Hey. That’s—”

Trey protested. Flos turned to him.

“I could conquer one of those cities or states with Mars and five cats, Trey. Don’t bother with the small details.”

Oh, to be a fly on the wall if anyone heard that. Trey almost felt sorry for the [Kings] and rulers Flos casually ignored with the strokes of his quill.

“There. You see? We have those smaller countries bordering our south I can’t be bothered to remember. Poor lands, by and large—really a no man’s land. To the north was Germina and Hellios, both our former closest enemies. Our most dangerous at the time.”

Trey nodded, biting his lip.

“But you took them out in two battles, so they weren’t all that strong, were they?”

Flos turned to Trey, looking astonished.

“Of course they were! Trey, these were both established nations with hundreds of years of history—thousands in Germina’s case. It’s old beyond belief, one of the four remaining Shield Nations!”

“Yeah, but its power has waned, right? Or—or it’s still a small nation.”

“Compared to some. But it could still command respect from around Chandrar.”

Flos frowned at Trey, looking deeply troubled by Trey’s blasé attitude. Trey frowned at Flos, deeply confused by Flos’ respectful attitude.

“But you beat Germina and Hellios like that! I was there!”

He snapped his fingers. Flos shook his head, sighing.

“Trey…both nations had strong armies. Both nations have power—strength—they had cunning rulers, at least, Germina did. And they were known quantities not to be ignored. Germina is known for its [Assassins] and Hellios its [Knights]. And stonework. That I defeated both nations isn’t due to their weakness; it’s due to my levels and the fact that Orthenon, Mars, and Gazi all rode with me on these nations.”

“So even though they were strong…”

“Am I called the King of Destruction or not?”

“Oh.”

Flos smiled, looking very amused by Trey’s stupid look.

“Trey, what you fail to understand is that my level is truly high, as are those of my Seven. A big nation—bigger than Germina—would have one or two individuals at most who could equal one of my Seven. And a [King] of my level is an even greater threat. As it stands, most nations on Chandrar I could defeat with Mars, Orthenon, and Gazi at my back in an open battle, even with only Reim’s army. It’s when they join forces they threaten to overwhelm me.”

The casual arrogance—no, the casual confidence in Flos’ voice reminded him again of who he was talking to. Flos, who could talk about squashing a country larger than Germina as if it were a sure thing. He shook his head.

“Okay. But now both countries are yours. What’re you drawing now?”

“All the countries that could threaten Reim, at least in the short term. You see this nation to our west? Khelt. And these two northern countries north of Hellios and Germina? Those are the Republic of Belchan, to the west, and the Realm of Jecrass, respectively.”

Trey peered at all three nations. Khelt bordered Reim, at least, according to Flos’ map. And Belchan and Jecrass were both around Germina and Hellios in size.

“Are any of these nations dangerous?”

Flos hmmed for a second.

“Belchan is home to one of the [Mage] schools in Chandrar, not nearly as famous as Wistram, but still important. Moreover, it is a fruitful place—you see, it gets more water, as do the nations on the coasts. Jecrass is known for its fine horses, and I know their [King], Raelt, of old. But he was ‘only’ on the level of the Quarass, so I suppose both nations are ‘only’ as militarily powerful as Germina and Hellios.”

He gave Trey a sardonic look over the map. Trey hunched his shoulders defensively.

“Okay, I get it. They’re good nations.”

Flos laughed, reached out, and ruffled Trey’s hair. Trey held still, wondering at the odd familiarity of the gesture.

“Good, but not the most powerful. You are right in that. Their northern neighbors actually concern me. As does Khelt, but I think their [King] won’t move. If they did, Reim might be wiped off the map!”

Flos laughed heartily. Trey nearly dropped his drink.

“What? But you said—”

“Khelt is a terrible nation to fight. I learned that the hard way. Don’t worry, they’re unique. And their [King] isn’t prone to starting wars. But if they fight on their lands or around them, the armies of Khelt are insanely difficult to beat. After all, I can’t demoralize them, they don’t tire, and that damn Fetohep can bring back more and more…”

The King of Destruction grumbled to himself as he stabbed Khelt a few times with his quill. Trey stared at him.

“They’re undead?”

“What? No, only the army. Their citizens are alive; the undead are merely slaves. Fetohep is unique as far as I know, different from the living and the dead. Ah, it might be wise to send someone in person to deliver my message to him. Venith, perhaps. He can be touchy, and the last thing I need is one of his armies demonstrating his ire. But happily, his nation is one of the few that doesn’t outright hate mine!”

Flos brightened a bit. Trey did not. He stared at Flos, then at the map.

The King of Destruction had kept on outlining countries as he spoke, taking time to make them properly squiggly, as Trey saw it. Two nations appeared north of Belchan and Jecrass, and a very large kingdom appeared south of Reim, only separated by the tiny strips of no-man’s land. To the left, Flos drew a few other states, a long strip of a country, a weird, tiny circle, and two more nations. Then the King of Destruction flexed his hand and grimaced.

“A cramp! This is so taxing! And these countries are annoying to draw! I think I’ll skip our eastern and western borders. There’s not much to draw, anyways.”

“But you’ve just done the north and south!”

Trey protested, pointing at the nearly empty space east and west of Reim. Flos shrugged.

“To the west lies the desert, past Khelt. The Empire of Sands is across that desert, but no one will threaten our western side. Except Khelt. And the eastern coastal nations are a mix. Some are large enough to threaten us and powerful—but they are too far, at least for the moment. There’s a little desert over here, you see—well, I forgot to add it in. It doesn’t matter. These are the nations that concern me most at the moment.”

He tapped the map. Trey stared. Four nations north of Hellios and Germina, including Belchan and Jecrass, the huge nation to the south of Reim, and four smaller countries to the southwest.

“Why these?”

“Hold on, I just need to outline the rest. I’m making up the borders, but it’s so tiring to draw Nerrhavia. But this looks close enough to a proper map…there was this bit that looked like part of a square over here where the Sarmathi ate a section of Nerrhavia, wasn’t there?”

Trey watched as Flos leaned over the parchment, glaring at the tiny details he was adding, all apparently from memory. But it was apparent he was losing patience as the minutes dragged by and Trey drank more wine from his cup. At last, Flos threw down his quill.

“Ah, but this is a tiring business! No wonder [Cartographers] are so difficult to come by! Enough! I won’t bother with the rest.”

He held up the map and showed Trey triumphantly. To Flos’ credit, it did vaguely resemble the maps Orthenon had shown Trey. The young man stared at it.

“Okay.”

Crestfallen, Flos looked at Trey.

“Okay? I labored for nearly half an hour on this!”

“I see a bunch of nations. But why are they so dangerous?”

“Because each one has the potential to invade. And all but one hate Reim—or specifically me—to some degree or other. Actually, almost all the nations do except this one. Right here, see?”

Flos pointed to one of the southwestern nations he’d drawn. Trey eyed it.

“So we have only one ally?”

“Possibly? I knew their [Empress] back in my days before my slumber. She was a growing teen then. So she would be…her empire willingly joined with mine, so I have hopes she’d ally if we drew close enough to share forces. That would be Tiqr, by the way. Stronger than Germina or Hellios, incidentally. It has a Garuda population and a great deal of animals. Like war elephants.”

“Oh! That’s like Persia from my world!”

Trey blinked. Flos nodded.

“Your world uses them too? I wouldn’t see why not. They are quite deadly. But I feel poorly for the animals, especially when so many die. Nevertheless, that is Tiqr’s business, and with any luck, we won’t fight them. But they are possible allies! Er, the other nations are all enemies without a doubt.”

“And this big nation to our south? Are they weak by any chance?”

“Ah, Nerrhavia. Um…no. No, they are not weak. But their ruler isn’t prone to war—she didn’t even send any forces against us with the coalition army. She’s rather lazy as rulers go, I suppose, or she doesn’t hate me as much as some nations. But she would be a dangerous enemy. You see, all this land was formerly smaller kingdoms and states of String People. But it unified, oh, six thousand years back? Into a powerful empire that ruled for thousands of years then was overthrown. Into the Kingdom of Nerrhavia’s Fall that we now know today. One of the largest and most powerful nations of Chandrar, but you could say its finest hours have passed.”

“Why’s it called that?”

“Because it was the kingdom that overthrew Nerrhavia. Who, I am only guessing, was a ruler not well beloved. A dangerous enemy, but not one determined for my head. Yet!”

Trey gave Flos a flat stare. The King of Destruction only grinned.

“The nations that aren’t Tiqr or Nerrhavia?”

“Pomle, Savere, and Illivere. All dangerous, although Pomle—the tiny one shaped like a circle—isn’t hostile towards us. They’re neutral by and large, but they could go to war, and they possess significant military might despite being so small. Illivere’s prosperous and dangerous if political, and Savere is prosperous, dangerous, seafaring, and their ruler hates me.”

“Why?”

“Hm. Well, it’s a story in itself. Suffice it to say, if we get near any coast, she might be a significant problem. But we’re landlocked, so all’s well for now!”

Flos laughed hugely. Trey didn’t laugh.

“Okay. Two nations to the north. Big one—why are there three dots?”

“Those? I marked the capitals of Germina and Hellios for you. And those dots are…dungeons. Ah, yes. The Thalassocracy of Medain is a nation of adventurers, blessed or cursed by three vast dungeons. All three have been explored for centuries, but they are magical dungeons and still spit out enough threats to employ any number of adventurers. Their ruler doesn’t have a personal grudge towards me that I know of, but his forces were among those that marched on Reim.”

Trey almost wanted to visit Medain and know what a nation full of adventurers looked like. But he supposed that wouldn’t happen so long as he was around Flos.

“Wonderful. And that last nation to the northwest?”

Flos’ smile faded.

“Ah. The Claiven Earth. That’s what they call themselves. Claiven hates me. And it’s one of the few nations I couldn’t conquer outright before my slumber. It…may be a problem.”

That was it. Trey couldn’t hold it in anymore. He threw the map up with his hands.

“Everywhere might be a problem! You have one ally on this map, and every other nation either doesn’t like you, might attack, or hates your guts! Are we going to die?”

He was hyperventilating just imagining all these foreign lands, all far bigger than Reim or Germina, lining up to attack Reim. Trey took in a huge gulp of air and felt a large hand descend on his shoulder. It was comforting and warm. Trey looked up. Flos’ huge smile took away his fear for a second.

“Trey, oh, Trey. Don’t worry.”

Trey gulped and nodded. Flos stroked his beard, smiling.

“Everyone dies someday. Besides, looking at this map and my enemies—this is the challenge I dreamed of! And each nation might invade, but my plan will deal with half of them, at least. I’m sure of it. Diplomacy was never my forte, but remember, I am the one they fear. And I plan to use that to my advantage. At least to build up some more strength and consolidate Germina and Hellios.”

Trey shuddered, shaking his head.

“You’re barking mad. You’re crazy. At least tell me what you’re doing! And how would you even win, even with Germina’s armies and Hellios’? How can you control so much land?”

“Well, you see, there are some artifacts I must have. And if I can get Khelt’s ruler on my side, ally with some nations like Germina, and my plan works—”

Tap. Tap.

Flos turned at the same time as Trey. The young man saw a figure standing on the balcony adjourning the sitting room. He heard a shout at the same time.

“The skies! Someone’s landed on the balcony!”

“Protect His Majesty! Sire—”

Trey looked around as the door exploded inwards and Eim rushed forwards, holding a belt knife. Flos clicked his fingers and slapped his forehead.

“Ah, I knew I forgot something. Eim, put the blade down. Call off the alarm. That is a Courier. And my guest.”

Eim slowed in his mad charge to get in front of Flos. The figure on the balcony hadn’t moved. Eim looked at Flos, then turned and rushed back to the corridor, stopping the five soldiers rushing in and shouting frantically.

“Er, Your Majesty? Who is that?”

The figure did not look Human, and as Flos walked forwards and opened the glass doors, Trey realized it was not a Human who walked into the room. Her feathers were a brilliant green speckled with white, and her form was tall and thin. Trey had only known Takhatres and a few of his tribe, but he had never met a fat Garuda. Presumably they wouldn’t fly.

But this Garuda had. And she was beautiful. Her beak opened slightly as she bowed, and her feathered wing-arms extended in a courtier’s bow to Flos. Then she looked up.

“Pardon the intrusion, King Flos of Reim. But I was told to visit this balcony.”

“The fault is mine, Courier. I apologize for the late hour and the danger, but I have need of your services. By all means, come in. And partake of wine or grape juice if you wish it. Trey, a chair.”

Trey immediately pulled up a chair, but the female Garuda shook her head. She turned to face Flos, still smiling.

“I fear I’ll be too busy for wine, and grape juice goes through my system quickly. But I am grateful for the offer, Your Majesty. I came here to take an urgent message, or so I understand it.”

“You are. To every nation south of here. To the rulers of Nerrhavia, Tiqr, Illivere, Pomle, Savere…I have contacted City Runners in Hellios who will deliver my message north and east.”

The Garuda tilted her head slightly.

“I see. An important letter. You have my word I will carry it without failure or disclose its information to any but whom you intend to read it.”

Flos chuckled.

“No need to risk your life, brave Courier. I am already indebted to you; you were the only Courier who answered my call. May I ask your name? I’m told you call yourself the Sky’s Mirage. Is there a reason for the nickname?”

The emerald Garuda shrugged, opening her wing arms slightly.

“It’s not the name I chose, but nicknames seldom are. Apparently it came from those who saw me on the ground as I flew high above the sands of Chandrar. I’m told my feathers on the blue sky are a lovely sight from the ground. But I’d prefer you just use my name, Your Majesty. Or have you forgotten me?”

She looked directly at Flos. The King of Destruction paused, and his eyes narrowed.

“Have I? I’m sure I would remember someone so striking…but we have met, haven’t we? Were you a City Runner, once? No. No, wait. Your plumage. And your voice…you were a Street Runner who delivered my message to Drevish when assassins sought his life! How could I have forgotten you, Chaita of Keymos!”

The Garuda opened her beak in a brilliant smile.

“You do remember! And you were the first person to ever trust me with a message of such importance.”

Flos held out his hands and took Chaita’s wing-hands.

“You saved Drevish’s life, then. I am ashamed to forget. Chaita, I would welcome you into my palace and feast you any other night. And should you ever tire on your journeys or fear for your life, come to Reim and you will be welcome in any land under my rule, I promise you. But I fear I must ask you to swiftly deliver my message.”

“Your Majesty is too kind. And it is my honor.”

Chaita ducked her head. Flos smiled sadly.

“Do not let that endanger your life. For this letter will soon be known by all. But the rulers of each nation must know first. So. It is here.”

He reached for something at his side. A bag of holding, because the scrolls he pulled out were far too large to have been hidden anywhere else.

“They are not sealed by magic or any other device. You need not wait upon each ruler to hear them read aloud either. In fact, I warn you it might be prudent to leave before you witness their reaction.”

“I shall bear that in mind. But I am a Courier, and even the King of Destruction’s messages are bound by the Runner’s Guild.”

Chaita accepted the scrolls and delicately put them into her own bag of holding. Then she turned and walked towards the balcony.

“I would stay longer, but it is a long flight. Your Majesty, I may take up your offer again.”

“I will be waiting. Chaita of Keymos, I will not forget your name again.”

Flos bowed slightly, and Chaita bowed as well. Then the Garuda leapt, and she was gone from view, flying in the night sky before Trey could blink. It had happened so fast that some of the shouting of intruders in the sky was still going on by the time Flos closed the balcony doors.

“And that is that. I apologize, Trey. And it seems I’ve kept you from your sister too long. Have you any questions for me?”

Trey had about a thousand as he always did. But he decided to ask only one, the obvious one.

“What was on the scrolls?”

Flos shrugged wearily.

“As I said, a message to the other kingdoms. All of them, not just the ones I listed on the map. Which you may keep, by the way. The scroll is simply a dictation of…my terms. Or would it be easier to call it a warning? Ah, well, either way. The prelude to war if they so choose. Don’t worry, I informed Orthenon of my plans, and he did not object. Much.”

That sounded ominous to Trey. But Flos didn’t appear too bothered. He fished around in his bag of holding.

“Ah. I have a few spares. Here. Read it and see.”

He handed Trey the scroll. The young man unfurled it and read apprehensively. He looked up at Flos’ pensive expression twice, but the scroll didn’t seem that bad. It actually sounded positive! Until Trey reached the ‘or else’ part. Then he turned pale. He looked up and saw the King of Destruction’s smile.

A prelude to war indeed. And so Chaita sped across the dark skies as Orthenon rode to Germina. They were not alone, for the messages they bore were carried by dozens of City Runners who began to run across the sands of Chandrar. Each one brought a burning message, hurtling from city to city, making monarchs and rulers worry as they read it. The message it contained was simple: peace.

Or at least, the peace only a King of Destruction would offer. The world turned, and that night, perhaps the only ruler who got a good night’s sleep was Flos of Reimarch. Although his hand hurt from all that map drawing.





6.15 K


(The Wandering Inn, Volume 1 is coming out as an audiobook! The narrator is doing live reading on her Discord, invite here! You can listen to her streaming most week days at 2 PM EST if you’d like to hear the audiobook being produced! Please be respectful on her server, and look forwards to the finished product!)



If there were a list of Top 100 Rulers in the world, then King Raelt would be on that list, but only because there were a limited number of [Kings] to go around. He would be somewhere near the bottom of that list, though he wasn’t a bad [King] and, in his way, he was actually quite good at his job. His kingdom was not mighty, but it had prospered in a medium sort of way, and it had not folded when confronted with adversity.

And there had been some adversity. And strife. And just a smidgen of cataclysm. But King Raelt had led his nation, the Realm of Jecrass, through it all, and he could look at himself in the mirror and not blink. Those were enviable qualities in a leader of people. So Raelt was a decent [King] if viewed from that lens.

On the other hand, Raelt was no monarch to sing songs about, at least in his mind. He was no Siren of Savere or Quarass with countless years of history and a unique country to manage and culture to draw upon. Jecrass had its quirks, but it was no Pomle.

By the same token, Raelt wasn’t worthy of a ‘name’ other than his own. Unlike the dancing, brilliant Bannermare of Baleros, or the Lord of the Dance in Terandria, or even Chandrar’s own King of Destruction, Raelt was known as…King Raelt. And it was a fine name he had, but it spoke to his insignificance in the eyes of the world as they measured such things.

So, he was not famous. He was a decent [King]. Raelt had been content to live that way. He would have spun out his entire reign as [King] of Jecrass, a small country north of Hellios and Germina and just south of the big players on Chandrar’s northeastern coast, quietly trying to improve his realm. Arguing with his court, practicing his hobbies (of which he only had one he was truly good at), and worrying over his daughter as she grew up.

In another life, maybe he would have had that luxury. But time had not been kind, for the worst sort of disaster had woken up. Hope as Raelt might that the disaster would go away or that he had changed, time had proven otherwise.

And now the disaster had sent a message. A proper letter. Raelt sat upon his cold, hard, metal throne that some previous idiot of a [King] had decided would look good, and listened to it being read aloud. Or rather, he was trying to make that happen but people kept objecting.

“Your Majesty, please wait. All of the royal court has yet to gather, and several of the Wardens are no doubt yet on their way. Wouldn’t it be prudent to wait another half hour before unsealing the message in the presence of the full court?”

A fawning, sycophantic voice was giving Raelt a headache. It had to be said that he hated his job sometimes. Not because it involved making hard decisions—he could handle that. But making those hard decisions was often a tedious political business, and as such, it invariably involved his royal court.

Raelt loathed, no, he despised, no, he wished he could tie all of his royal court up and feed them to pigs. He had things he hated and liked in this life, but the courtiers, nobility, and various ‘people of importance’ who often appeared in his palace were on the top of his hate list.

They were sneaky, backstabbing, arguing bastards the lot of them, and Raelt would have happily traded his entire royal court for a room full of [Bandits] he had to argue with each day to get things done. [Bandits] were at least honest about what they did.

“Warden Emile, I do not care to wait. This message is of the utmost importance because it came from Reim, and it bears the seal of the King of Destruction. More importantly, it arrived just this morning, and the knowledge it contains is essential. Anyone not present may be brought up to speed later.”

“But sire, please, let us at least gather a few more figures of note. Jecrass should be united as its most important figures hear out the King of Destruction’s words.”

The King of Jecrass eyed their apprehensive faces. Why did they hesitate? As if not hearing the letter’s contents would delay the worst? Raelt sighed loudly.

“The most important person in this room has already read the letter, Warden Emile. That would be me, incidentally.”

“Your Majesty!”

“Would you like to know if it is a declaration of war?”

The man shut up. Raelt kept speaking, looking around the room. He was vaguely pleased to see more than a few faces had paled. Men and women looked up at him. Humans of various shades of skin, but all Human. In Chandrar, a few races accounted for most of the population. String-people. Garuda. But Humans most of all. Jecrass was a land of Humans, and sometimes Raelt wondered if he had been a String Person and ruled the Stitch-people, whether his life would have been easier. He spoke into the silence curtly.

“It is not. But the declaration is also no trivial matter. Geril. Read it to my court and skip the introduction. It’s a short letter anyways. Read us the first part of the King of Destruction’s missive.”

An old man stepped forwards. He was a [Servant], but a prince among servants, as they measured such things. And eminently more respected than the disgruntled nobility assembled in Raelt’s court. Some were seated, but they stood up, as if the King of Destruction’s words impelled them towards their feet. Raelt’s own presence was hardly sufficient for that. Geril cleared his throat.

“Ahem. By Your Majesty’s will…after the greeting, the King of Destruction writes thusly: ‘Word of my return has spread and with it, claims that I will once again embark on a campaign of conquest. However, I seek no legions of enemies, and to make war on nations for the sake of it has never been my purpose. To allay such fears, I, Flos, swear that I shall make war on no nation or group that does not threaten Reim or my subjects. I offer peace to Chandrar and the world and swear my armies shall march upon no enemy that does not give me just cause.’”

Raelt gripped the armrest of his throne as he watched his court blink and stare as Geril raised his head. He let them digest it, noting who reacted with relief and who thought about the contents of the letter.

And it was a letter. Sent via City Runner to Jecrass; they must have traded off Runners three times to make it here by night. Raelt was sure other [Messages] bearing the same contents were probably speeding to other nations if the King of Destruction had not hired a Courier. Well, the physical letter itself was just a formality. The contents of the letter would still shake Chandrar.

“Well, that’s not so bad.”

Warden Emile looked much better than he had a second ago. Raelt stared at him and mentally downgraded the man’s intelligence by another point in his head.

“That would be half the letter. There was a threat, I believe. Geril?”

The court stiffened as one again, and Raelt smiled, imagining the collective clenching of certain body parts his words had caused. Several of his nobility gave him dark looks, but then they were riveted by the old [Head Servant] once more. Geril slowly traced a finger down the page.

“Yes, Your Majesty. Skipping forwards it reads…‘I have but one demand in the name of the peace I offer. Let my people go. Once, my kingdom spanned Chandrar and further, and still some call to me as their [King]. And I claim them, for what King will not hear the cries of his subjects, no matter how far removed? If any claim allegiance to me, let them come free of harm and prejudice from every corner of the world. Give my subjects to me, and I will hold to my vow. But enslave my subjects, offer them harm or imprisonment or make war on Reim, and I will reply in kind.’ After that, there is a short farewell to His Majesty and the King of Destruction’s signature.”

Raelt grimaced. Simple and to the point. He was frankly surprised that Flos had made the letter read in anything close to formal parlance. He might as well have said it with his usual bluntness. I won’t attack you, so give me my subjects. If not, I’ll attack you.

The court buzzed for a second after Geril had folded the piece of paper back up. Raelt saw Warden Winta dab at her forehead, Dulfe and Cerani lean in to talk quickly, looking upset, and then heard Emile’s piping voice once more.

“That’s still not so bad, surely?”

Raelt leaned on the left side of his throne and sighed into a hand. He looked down at Emile. The man—no, the boy was only twenty-seven. New to his estates and position since his father had passed away.

“It is not a message that brings me any comfort, Warden Emile. I’m glad you’re able to put your mind at ease with so little effort.”

The young man looked both pleased and confused by the statement. But another noble, an older woman in her forties, pursed her lips.

“Your Majesty, it does sound like a positive message. Or am I wrong as well? The King of Destruction has pledged not to assail Jecrass. Surely that is worth celebrating? As for his subjects, what of it? There may be some dissenters in Jecrass. Why not send them to Reim?”

A few nobles nodded with her as she gave Raelt a not-quite-challenging glance. He leaned on his palm and shook his head.

“The letter has more nuance than that. Recall the latter half. Geril may read it out loud if you’ve already forgotten. It means, Warden Cerani, that anyone who claims allegiance to the King of Destruction is under his protection. In short, anyone who fought for him during his reign or anyone who bears sympathy to him could quit this kingdom and travel to his, and if we stop or gainsay them in any way, Flos of Reim will declare war on us.”

Silence followed that remark, and Raelt was again pleased to see Cerani’s mouth drop open as the words finally clicked for her. Emile still looked blank, but another Warden, Dulfe, a frog-like fellow, raised his voice in a passionate shout.

“Do you intend to submit to his demands like that, Your Majesty? Surely we cannot simply accede to this—this provocation without baring some fangs! He could steal away a tenth of our working population with a snap of his fingers!”

“I hardly think it will be that large a number, Warden Dulfe.”

Cerani looked troubled. The older man in his forties turned to her, gripping the lapels of his coat fiercely. She returned his look, although warily.

“Milady Cerani, you underestimate the lure of a threat like this. Some of Jecrass’ citizens will no doubt stay out of loyalty to the nation—as well they should! But I fear malcontents and ingrates abound. Why, my lands might lose most if the King of Destruction’s words reach the agitators and rebels. I move to seal this letter—”

“Denied!”

Raelt’s happy voice cut Warden Dulfe off. He was pleased to see the man color. He looked around at his friends and allies in the room, clearly doing a headcount.

“Your Majesty, I would put this to a vote among the peerage of Jecrass.”

“Even if every Warden of Jecrass and lesser peer of the realm voted against, I would still make the news of this public, Warden Dulfe. I’m afraid the news will spread, if not from Jecrass then elsewhere. Moreover, I don’t intend to fight the King of Destruction on this. Or did you forget the part where he claims his subjects in our lands, whomever they may be?”

King Raelt was even more pleased by the way Dulfe spluttered, but there was nothing he could do. For any other decision Raelt made, Dulfe could and might hold a vote and have the other nobility oppose Raelt’s decisions. And Raelt could force through his orders; he was a [King] after all, but his nobles could drag their feet or outright oppose them.

Sadly, they were powerful. Raelt was powerful, but so were the members of his court. They were technically [Lords] and [Ladies], but Jecrass didn’t see landowners as nobility all the time. More important to Jecrass, with its sprawling plains and pastures mixed in with the arid landscapes Chandrar was famous for, was the control of water.

Anyone who owned so much as a stream could build farmlands, raise animals, and dole out the precious resource to anyone living on their land. The nobility of Raelt’s court were all heirs to areas of land that held water in some abundance or other. So they were River Wardens, the name for their kind of nobility in Jecrass. But Raelt’s private name for them was River Robbers, because sometimes it was hard to tell a [Lord] from a [Bandit Leader]. He looked down at Dulfe, and the list of the man’s faults was a silent mantra in Raelt’s head.

“I remind you, Warden Dulfe, that this is the King of Destruction we are referring to. Not any [King], and not a man known for his patience and skills at diplomacy. If you fear too many of your people will quit your ever-so-pleasant duchy to join Flos of Reim’s empire, well then, perhaps you should have amended their living and working conditions as I demanded of you at last year’s summit, hm?”

He gave the slightly frog-eyed man a happy little smile. In his head, Raelt thought that might be the best result of the King of Destruction’s declaration. Did he know what he’d done? Or was he unaware that his call would bring in more than just his people to his banner? No, surely he’d thought of that.

And it would work on at least some of Dulfe’s workers. Dead gods, the man had put a copper tax on every bucket of water drawn from his wells! Both he and Dulfe knew his tenants might well desert him en masse. Dulfe’s bulging eyes narrowed a bit as he glared up at Raelt’s unconcealed good humor.

“I remind His Majesty that those are my domains, and while I am subject to the authority of the crown, my will should be respected. I am, after all, a very loyal citizen of Jecrass.”

His words caused a small hush, and Raelt felt his hand twitch. But he schooled his body and face and gave Dulfe no other sign his words had raised Raelt’s temper.

Surely the King of Destruction wouldn’t suffer a jumped-up [Lord] making snippy remarks at him. That was one thing about Flos that Raelt envied. But he couldn’t afford to make Dulfe an outright enemy, so Raelt didn’t call for his sword and instead spoke with a bitingly pleasant tone. You could make words as sharp as any fencing sword.

“You mean, you pay your taxes, Warden Dulfe. As far as I’m concerned, that is the duty of all of my nobility, not a particular sign of loyalty. I know a [Baker] in the capital who pays his dues to the crown every year. I’ve never heard him bring it up, and I meet him at least once a week as I walk about my city. On the other hand, I think you bring up your contributions at least twice a day in court, Warden Dulfe.”

There were a few chuckles at that, and the man’s face turned red. He straightened stiffly, gripping his lapels.

“A [King] should not be concerned with the minutiae of his subject’s affairs, Your Majesty. Surely you have better uses of your time, perhaps on more walks?”

Raelt waved that aside. There was a limit to how far he could push Dulfe without it being an insult, and the man was wary of directly antagonizing his [King]. Still, he’d pay for that later, Raelt promised in his head. But he had to make this clear to all of his court, so he turned his head and spoke in a carrying, kingly voice. Which really just meant loud.

“Perhaps the rights of my citizens on your lands is a discussion to be put aside until later. However, if it turns out any of the King of Destruction’s citizens were harmed, I will happily direct his queries your way, Warden Dulfe. Or do you plan on refusing to let his subjects go? Anyone present?”

He looked around. And no one, not Dulfe or Emile or Cerani or anyone else could offer up a reply. All Dulfe could come up with in the end was a spluttering complaint, much like a toddler.

“It appears we must accede, however roguish the demand! I will let anyone who claims the King of Destruction’s name go, Your Majesty. But I will consider it an assault on Jecrass!”

Raelt nodded heavily.

“That might be wise on both accounts, Warden Dulfe.”

The man blinked up at him, but Raelt was serious. The [King] pondered for a second, wondering at the implications. But he didn’t share his concerns with his court. There were better people to talk to. So he just decided to twist the knife one last time.

“And while we’re on the subject of it, please send me a proper census of all the citizens who claim the King of Destruction’s protection as you make a proper announcement, Warden Dulfe. That goes for the rest of you as well. I would know who we’re losing to Reim.”

“What? We have to announce it?”

Dulfe spluttered, but Raelt nodded.

“Indeed. And make a firm accounting of all those intending to leave. I require it.”

The other Wardens looked annoyed and irritated by turns. It was a reasonable request, but they’d have to count all their citizens planning on leaving. Dulfe’s face turned a deeper shade of magenta, but it was a royal order and he could only bow his head. He shot one final remark across Raelt’s bow as he turned to go.

“I only hope Your Majesty is as diligent in protecting our borders against Reim’s aggressions. Or else it would appear that we should contribute less of our hard-earned gold to the royal coffers each year. Perhaps a vote? Until then, Your Majesty, I take my leave.”

That was a threat. Raelt bared his teeth at the man’s back as he received a perfunctory bow. He stood up as his court milled about.

“I will take my leave as well. Geril, see to it my guests are properly served, and I’m sure the late peerage will wish to be caught up.”

“Your Majesty won’t stay and deliberate a further course of action?”

Warden Cerani looked dismayed. Raelt turned his head.

“Beyond acquiescing? Not at this moment. I shall let you know if my plans change. Until then, I must confer with my peers. Good day to you.”

He ignored the flurry of curtsies and bows as he stepped down from his throne and walked out a side door of his throne room. Raelt strode down the corridor as he heard the doors open and swift footsteps. Geril was following him, but Raelt wasn’t in a mood to chat with his old servant.

“Dulfe, you pompous frog. A vote to cut your own taxes? I’ll double the levies on your land if you so much as hint towards it!”

The problem was the man might actually force a vote. And threats aside, Dulfe was influential enough to make a bad enemy. But Raelt didn’t intend to let the man get away with insulting him in public—well, in front of the royal court—without some payback. A [King] had ways, so Raelt swiftly turned left at the intersection and then hurried up some stairs while Geril panted to keep up.

Raelt was quick on his feet and very fit and Geril was old, so Raelt hated to make the man move fast, but he had to be in position.

He knew the layout of his palace by heart. And calling it a ‘palace’ was generous because in truth, it was smaller than some castles Raelt had known. But a [King] had to live in a palace, and worse, this one had a name for every corridor and room. Raelt slowed as he came to an open corridor and felt a warm breeze on his face.

“Your Majesty?”

Geril panted as he climbed the stairs. Raelt waved at him, and the [Head Servant] caught his breath. It was a shame he’d never gained [Lesser Endurance] as a Skill; it would have served him well in his old age. Perhaps Geril should have been less active, even semi-retired. But that might have killed the old man outright. Raelt turned to him.

“My apologies, Geril. But I need to speak with Lyfelt in the Warded Chambers to discuss the King of Destruction’s letter. I thought we’d take this route to get there. I could use a breath of fresh air. And a drink to clear the bad taste from my mouth.”

“Ah, the Sunset Retreat corridor, Your Majesty? Excellent choice. Shall I bring you a beverage? Wine, perhaps?”

“It’s barely past breakfast. Make it water. With ice for a treat. And bring me an orange while you’re at it, Geril.”

The old servant hesitated as he beckoned to a young boy ready to run the errand.

“Er, all the ones we have are still from last year, Your Majesty. They’re not quite fully deteriorated, but I fear our preservation runes aren’t able to keep them fully—”

“An orange, Geril. I don’t care how bad it is as long as a bit’s edible.”

“Yes, Your Majesty. At once.”

Geril bowed his head. He didn’t leave Raelt’s side, but the young boy ran off to fetch the [King]’s water. And the orange. Raelt for his part took a slow, almost snail’s pace of a walk forwards and felt the light of the palace change. It had windows of course, but now bright sunlight streamed through a place where the walls of the palace just…stopped.

The Sunset Corridor was one of the unique parts of Jecrass’ palace. It was a lovely, long stretch of walkway with a swooping, modernistic design where the hallway opened up, letting great, sloped balconies give anyone walking along it an unparalleled view of the countryside. It was also the most defensively idiotic choice you could make, but one of Raelt’s predecessors had decided he had to have it in, so Raelt could walk along the Sunset Corridor and survey his kingdom as the morning breeze warmed his skin.

During a sunset, Chandrar was beautiful, and the previous [Kings] of Jecrass had forbidden anyone from establishing buildings on this side of the palace to keep the view unobstructed. There was plenty of space in Jecrass anyways. It was a flat nation with more water than dusty Reim or Germina or Hellios, which allowed it to cultivate vast plains. On those plains, the people of Jecrass raised sheep, cows, goats, and many animals of pasture. But what Jecrass was known for was…

“Horses. I see there’s at least two herds out and about. Are they the royal stock?”

“I believe so, Your Majesty.”

“Hm. Well, good for them.”

Raelt eyed the distant four-legged creatures roaming about and grazing on the grass. He felt they somewhat spoiled his view, but he couldn’t air that comment out loud. Someone might be listening.

King Raelt was a man of likes and dislikes. It had already been noted that he hated his court, but he had more than a few dislikes in his kingdom. Horses, for one. Raelt disliked horses and felt like the feeling was mutual. Which was ironic because the Realm of Jecrass was known for the superior stock of horses it turned out, from warhorses to racers to sturdy plow animals.

But Raelt could never enjoy riding the things or caring for them. Possibly it had to do with one of the times Raelt had broken a tailbone, leg, or arm riding the things. But horses were only one of his dislikes, and as Raelt impatiently waited at a precise spot about three quarters of the way down the Sunset Corridor, the young servant boy raced back with water and an orange fruit.

“Allow me, Your Majesty.”

Geril peeled the orange with careful hands as the servant handed Raelt a glass of cool water. He savored the bits of ice floating in the drink, for all they were almost already melted. Ice, now, ice he liked. It was a luxury in Chandrar, but a [King] must have his indulgences. He drank down the water—it was important to stay hydrated after all—and glumly looked at the orange Geril presented him.

“It is rather…”

“It’s fine, Geril. Hand it to me.”

The half-peeled orange was indeed far past its prime. Still edible, but not the sort of thing you’d give to a [King]. Geril had done his best and found the best part of it to peel and left the mushy bottom unpeeled, but Raelt still regarded the orange glumly. It was a known fact that the King of Jecrass liked oranges, but that was partly a lie.

Raelt bit into the half-rotten orange slice and chewed it. Slimy, mushy—the [King]’s mouth revolted at the sensation. Raelt hated eating oranges. He didn’t hate orange things. Carrots, for instance, were delightful and crunchy. And they grew well in arid climates! But his [Royal Gardener] refused to have such a mundane crop in his tended gardens. Oranges and other rare fruits were all in vogue.

It was another feature of being a [King] where you were at the mercy of your [Gardener]’s whims. Still, his daughter loved the stuff, and Raelt liked oranges for a reason other than for their taste. He chewed the pithy, slimy orange slice slowly, trying not to grimace as Geril waited with him. Raelt had to endure the chewing for a good four minutes—then he heard what he’d been waiting for. The clip-clop of hooves outside the corridor. Instantly, Raelt swallowed and turned to Geril.

“Delightful, Geril. But I fear you were right. The rest of this orange is too rotted for my tastes. We’ll have to check the runes in the storage rooms. A shame we can’t make them perfect. Ah, well.”

He glanced across the balcony as he spoke and with one hand, flicked the orange through the air. It fell from the balcony, coincidentally just as a small group of riders emerged from below. The rider in the middle never saw the orange coming. Raelt heard a small impact, then a shout of pain and then fury. He hurried down the Sunset Corridor, smiling, and Geril followed him. The old [Servant] might have been laughing. Or tutting quietly.

There were three entrances leading out of his palace. Of the three, anyone who wanted to use the stables would have to pass this way, and Raelt knew the voices of his [Hostlers] by heart. He could time the exact moment someone would be passing below the balcony of the Sunset Retreat corridor. The rest was just a matter of aim. And Raelt had splendid accuracy.

“I believe His Majesty might have accidentally struck someone with his orange. A terrible accident, sire. It might even have been one of your Wardens afflicted. Shall I ensure the victim is alright?”

Raelt raised his eyebrows as he turned his head to Geril.

“A [King] shouldn’t be concerned with all the minutiae of his subject’s lives, Geril. That’s a valuable lesson I learned just today. Onwards, I say. No one’s died from being struck by an orange. And if they have? Well, there’s probably worse fates.”

The [Head Servant] sighed, but he made no further comment. Raelt smiled to himself and, in a much better mood, led the old man at a walk towards his actual destination, the Warded Chambers. Servants bowed as Raelt passed by, and he gave them a proper kingly nod and a few words to the people he remembered. The young ones came and went, but there were a number of old folk like Geril that had tended to Raelt since he was an infant. Raelt was nearly at his destination when he heard a slight ding, a jingle of sound. He turned and didn’t quite sigh as he saw the young woman striding towards him.

“Father! Is it true that the King of Destruction sent a letter? May I see it?”

The young woman walking towards Raelt was dressed in riding leathers, and beneath them, she wore leggings and a tunic meant for the sparring courts or for travel. She was the exact opposite of most [Princesses] with her long-legged stride—something she shared with her father—and the fencing sword strapped to her belt. She walked with a cat’s grace, and her presence was heralded by the chiming of a small, silver bell tied to the sword at her waist.

Princess Jecaina of Jecrass stopped in front of her father. She was just into her twenties, young, brash and confident, and beautiful, although Raelt was biased in everything when it came to his daughter. He smiled as he greeted his daughter, although his eyes flicked to the sword at Jecaina’s waist.

She owned a beautiful sword, slim and agile, a [Fencer]’s blade which suited her because she had that class. The silver bell was another thing she never went without, which irked Raelt for all of his fatherly love. He hated bells. He had a sword, but he refused to let bells near it.

“Yes, Jecaina. The letter arrived during breakfast. It quite ruined it, actually. You would have been able to read it. If you’d been there.”

It was a mild rebuke, and it bounced off Jecaina as she tossed her head, letting her hazel-green hair fly for a second. It was a peculiarity of some of Jecrass’ bloodlines that their hair could actually turn green. Raelt’s hair was simply a light brown, but his daughter had inherited the rare color from her mother.

“I was riding with Liass and Mellia. Besides, the letter hasn’t gone anywhere. May I see it?”

“Later. I need to speak to Minister Lyfelt about it. Don’t bother Geril for it, Jecaina. I’m sure you know what it says.”

Her eyes sparkled.

“The King of Destruction’s peace! And he’s calling for his subjects or anyone who claims loyalty to him! Isn’t it splendid?”

“I don’t believe I used that word, did I, Geril?”

“No, Your Majesty. I believe that word is not suitable for Her Highness’ ears.”

Jecaina laughed.

“You swore, Father? But it’s not a threat! We can give the King of Destruction what he wants. And isn’t it a wonderful chance? I could ride to Hellios, or maybe even Reim, and see him now that he’s sworn to peace!”

“Absolutely not, young lady. You’re not to go riding anywhere near the border, much less on another week-long jaunt.”

Raelt had a miniature heart attack at the thought. Jecaina scowled at him. They were nearly of a height, both tall, inheriting the royal family genes.

“Father! I can handle myself. And surely the King of Destruction wouldn’t stoop to kidnapping.”

“He might not, but someone else might. You are Jecrass’ heir and next ruler by right.”

She tossed her head again challengingly. Much like her favorite horse, actually.

“I only have half the claim. If you had a child, you could nominate them. And I could go adventuring!”

“Spare me.”

Raelt grumbled under his breath, although Geril was nodding in agreement with his daughter’s suggestion. King Raelt was, as yet, unmarried, and he had no children, at least directly. He looked down at his daughter, dismayed. Jecaina of Jecrass was little like her adopted father. She was more like her mother, who was Raelt’s half-sister.

That technically made Raelt the uncle of Jecaina, rather than father. But it was her mother who had given birth to Jecaina after a tryst gone wrong, and she had abandoned her daughter. So Raelt had raised her.

It was a story everyone in Jecrass knew, but only Jecaina brought up her heritage. Anyone else who tried that, River Warden or not, would be heaved straight off the Sunset Corridor balcony.

“I don’t intend to get married soon enough for you to join any of Flos’ subjects and ride to his capital, Daughter. And you should be wary of the King of Destruction’s proclamations. He is a dangerous man. Possibly the most dangerous in the entire world at this moment.”

Jecaina’s eyes widened. She protested, taking an aggressive step towards her father as if she were about to lunge.

“But Father, he’s a legend! I grew up hearing stories about the King of Destruction—everyone did!”

By ‘everyone’, Jecaina meant all of her young friends, noble or rich enough to ride about with the nobility and the [King]’s daughter. Raelt had told no such stories, and he cursed the crowd around Jecaina who had spread the King of Destruction’s myth to her. But then again—she was right. Flos of Reim was a legend, and now he was back. There might be a lot of young folk who joined his capital. He’d have to try and mitigate that somehow.

“The King of Destruction is no hero, young lady. I don’t know what stories you’ve heard—”

“He was a champion of the people, wasn’t he? Don’t lie, Father. Didn’t he start a war with the Medilean Kingdom when he heard the royal family had been overthrown and a tyrannical [Warlord] had taken over? Wasn’t he the man who fought the Order of the Black Judgment when they became little more than bandits?”

Raelt bit his lip. He answered carefully, trying to force the words through his stubborn daughter’s ears.

“He did do that. And he fought in the name of justice, that’s true enough. He would start a war over a single wrong, and tens of thousands would die. That does not make him a good [King]. Or even a good man.”

“But he did conquer all of Chandrar. Isn’t he a man worth following? Shouldn’t I meet him? You met him, or so Liass’ father claims.”

“Warden Telimt is a liar and a braggart. And he’s telling the truth in this case, which is why I’m convinced Flos’ return won’t bode well for Jecrass or anyone else. There will be a proclamation, and anyone who wishes may leave for Reim. But Jecrass is still Reim’s enemy.”

“But Father! The King of Destruction could be a powerful ally! Jecrass has never wronged him. And—and at least three of his Seven are with him! Mars the Illusionist, Gazi the Omniscient, Takhatres, the Lord of the Skies—and Orthenon, his [Steward]! Wouldn’t you like to see them? Just once?”

The [Dueling Princess]’ eyes were shining. Raelt felt a twinge of conscience at the look in her eyes. If he were her age, he might have felt as she did. But he had to be the one to put his foot down, so he shook his head.

“He is not an ally I want, Jecaina. I don’t trust him. In fact, I think Minister Lyfelt and I—oh damn, will you initiate contact with him, Geril?—will condemn his letter. At least in word. The other northern nations will most likely do the same. Claiven certainly will.”

“But Dad—can’t I at least meet him? As a dignitary? Mellia says I could go as a diplomat. The King of Destruction’s supposed to be very handsome, and so is the King’s Steward. And he’s supposed to be unmarried…”

It was possible Raelt might have a heart attack before he even reached the Warded Chambers. He tried to banish thoughts of Orthenon and Flos from his head, and he pointed a finger at his daughter.

“You will not ride into Hellios, and nor will you or your friends join any caravan headed towards Reim. If I catch so much as a whiff that you’re planning it, I will bar you from the stables. And the same goes for your friends. If need be, I’ll throw them in the dungeon for a day or two to cool their heads. Their parents will hear of this as well.”

“That’s not fair!”

“It’s my order. And I’m still the [King].”

Raelt snapped at his daughter. She stomped a foot.

“You—you tyrant!”

Jecaina scowled at her father. She turned and stormed off. He shouted after her.

“I’m a [Tyrant]? You haven’t even met the King of Destruction!”

She didn’t reply. The servants who scurried out of the way didn’t even look at their [King]. Raelt adjusted his crown, feeling flushed with anger and embarrassment. He hurried down the corridor and found Geril standing in front of the Warded Chambers. They were marked by a magical door and were the most secure part of the palace, warded against eavesdropping and other magical and physical means of spying.

“Everything alright, Your Majesty? I, ah, spoke to Minster Lyfelt. He is awaiting you.”

“I’ll be with him in a second, Geril. Did you hear that?”

“Your daughter’s parting words were fairly audible, Your Majesty. I take it she wished to visit Reim?”

“She thinks he’s a hero. Damn Liass and Mellia and her friends, gallivanting about and putting thoughts in her head. She’ll have to rule them someday, and old friendships will complicate things. I need to teach her to be a proper ruler, rather than a half-wild [Princess].”

“She is quite skilled in some ways.”

“With a blade? That’s not ruling. That’s a hobby. She’s not going to be a [Warrior Queen] of old, Geril. And she’s not going to meet the King of Destruction. Nor will anyone else. Put a word in the border patrol’s ears about watching for young nobles trying to sneak into Hellios.”

Geril nodded.

“Shall I send a message to the families of her companions, Your Majesty? I could also increase her bodyguard.”

Raelt shook his head glumly.

“Don’t bother. That will only make her more rebellious. Leave be—Jecaina might dream of visiting Reim, but she’ll probably give up when she realizes how far she’d have to ride just to get to Hellios’ capital, let alone Reim. I dread the day when she learns a movement Skill, though.”

“Perhaps Your Majesty would like another glass of water? With some lemon?”

The [Head Servant] suggested gently. Raelt hesitated and shook his head.

“No, I’ll speak to Lyfelt. Let no one in. This won’t take long, I hope.”

He straightened his attire, checked his light crown was straight on his head, and then opened the magical door. The Warded Chambers were a series of rooms that contained a number of Jecrass’ secrets, but Raelt needed only one of them now. He walked straight into the first room, ignoring the two side doors, and stopped in front of a large, marble statue. It was the head and shoulders of a man, although the carving was generic. The man had a head of hair, eyes, a nose, but there was something plain about him. He had no distinguishing features, and that was the point. It was an enchanted item of course, and the eyes of the statue were turned sideways and the mouth was moving. Raelt heard a few words as he walked into the room.

“—yes, send the reply to Medain and copy a response for Claiven. I’ll speak with the parliament in half an hour, but delay my arrival until—ah, Raelt!”

The statue’s eyes turned back towards him. Raelt half-smiled as the statue’s lips curved upwards.

“Minister Lyfelt. I’ve kept you waiting.”

“Not at all. And it’s my pleasure, King Raelt. But let’s dispense with the formalities, shall we?”

“Of course.”

Raelt inclined his head. There was a high stool which he perched on, wishing the marble bust were closer to the ground. But the damn [Enchanter] had installed it at a normal head’s height, as if you wanted to stand and talk to the stone statue for hours. Perhaps he’d thought Raelt would keep it by his throne or something.

Fat chance of that. Raelt knew that whoever looked through the mirror on the other side could see and hear whatever was happening around the statue in Jecrass. And while he trusted the man on the other side, Minister Lyfelt was still the head of Belchan and thus the ruler of another nation. They had set up this system to communicate, but Raelt wouldn’t share all the workings of his court with Belchan.

The marble bust had cost Jecrass’ treasury 28,413 gold pieces exactly. Raelt had added in the price of getting a [Mage] who specialized in both enchanting and stone magic to come from Belchan, carve and enchant the marble head here while being housed in the finest rooms and treated like a royal visitor, and then come back to repair the magical head twice when the spell malfunctioned.

Was it worth the coin? Well, yes. Raelt and Lyfelt could communicate instantaneously this way, which saved the issue of trusting a [Mage] with [Message] spells. Additionally, they could properly chat rather than write brief text messages to each other. Raelt still resented the cost, but Belchan had paid for an enchanted mirror, and that had to be double what he’d spent.

That was Belchan for you, though. They were home to one of the [Mage] schools of Chandrar, not nearly as impressive as Wistram, but certainly lucrative for the magic users that called the nation home. Added to that, Belchan was richer in water and natural resources—they had a small gold mine as well as rich fields for agriculture. The one thing they didn’t have was a monarchy, which currently Raelt regarded as a plus.

Prime Minister Lyfelt of Belchan must have been sitting, because the marble head craned up a bit to meet Raelt’s face before something changed and the head lowered again. He’d probably adjusted his seat. His head looked left slightly, and the nondescript features—a far cry from Lyfelt’s handsome visage—spoke curtly.

“I’m speaking to King Raelt of Jecrass. Turn away everyone at the door.”

He looked back at Raelt and smiled.

“Apologies, again. You know how busy it is with the King of Destruction’s letter.”

“It’s actually fairly quiet around here. But a [King] doesn’t have to deal with as many people as a [Minister].”

“True, true.”

Lyfelt chuckled. He had a very pleasant voice, the kind of soothing tones you could listen to for hours. Despite the statue speaking, he still had a great deal of charisma, some of it inborn, some of it part of his class. He had been elected [Prime Minister] by Belchan’s people, and unlike Jecrass, the country was a democracy, a rare sight in any part of the world. It had a parliament, and the position of Prime Minister was a result of a party winning a majority, as Raelt understood it.

He was glad Lyfelt had won, and not just because the man was easy to talk to. Lyfelt was a career politician, someone who’d gained a [Politician] class and consolidated it to [Minister]. He wasn’t born into his position like the River Wardens of Jecrass, and so he’d risen to ruler of a nation purely by his political savvy.

“I’m planning on issuing an announcement with the contents of the letter later today. What of Belchan?”

“Ah, I believe I’ll let it filter through the parliament members. They’ve been briefed, and they’re already taking sides on the matter. As if there’s a choice. I trust you made that clear to your court as well?”

“I had to hammer it into their heads. But I don’t see an option besides agreeing to the King of Destruction’s terms, do you?”

Lyfelt grimaced.

“Not at the moment. But there are more options available, Raelt. A pity your River Wardens can be so…so…shortsighted. But then, half of the minor parties in my parliament are like that.”

Raelt nodded, feeling some of the weight of this morning drop off him as he and Lyfelt groused about being rulers. The two men were friends, although they were dissimilar in quite a number of ways. But fate had conspired to make them allies, and the friendship had come over time.

After all, both Jecrass and Belchan were in the unenviable position of being neighbors to two major powers, the Thalassocracy of Medain and The Claiven Earth, as well as adjacent to the traditionally hot-headed Helliosians and Germina.

Jecrass and Belchan had always allied to keep Medain from expanding southwards, and occasionally that alliance had included Germina and Hellios, and all four nations had fought with Medain’s armies of adventurers and soldiers in the past.

“How do you think this will change issues with Medain or Claiven, Lyfelt?”

“Aside from the fact that we’ve lost Hellios and Germina? Well, with this letter we might not have to watch our borders. But if Medain pushes south…it’s tricky, Raelt. I don’t think either country will do so immediately—they’re rightfully wary of the King of Destruction. It just depends on what he does next and whether we can trust the letter.”

“You don’t think we can?”

The bust smirked.

“I trust no one’s word one hundred percent, Raelt. Even when sworn in blood. Even yours, old friend. I intend to use Flos’ declaration to my advantage, and I advise you to do the same. I’m already speaking with Claiven and Medain about this. Perhaps even get some kind of agreement hammered out, even if it’s only a joint condemnation of the conditions. If I play it right, Belchan can even be the reluctant nation coerced into opposing the King of Destruction with a small bribe.”

“Just be careful. Flos of Reim is no one to play games with. I knew him when he was becoming the King of Destruction.”

Raelt warned his friend, although he feared it was falling on deaf ears as he watched Lyfelt’s confident expression. Lyfelt was new to his position for all that he’d served for six years as [Prime Minister], and for him, power was still an intoxicating berry drink. To Raelt, who’d been born a [Prince], power was like an old riding glove. Slightly stained and frayed, certainly useful, but not exactly pleasant.

“Don’t worry, Raelt. Both Claiven and Medain hate the King of Destruction far too much to worry about our countries, except as bulwarks between him and them at the moment. They’re sending me [Messages] nonstop, hoping I’ll agree to some kind of ‘defensive pact’ that allows them to put their soldiers in our borders.”

Raelt grimaced at that and then frowned.

“I didn’t get any [Messages].”

Lyfelt’s head shook slowly from side to side.

“You rely on your Mage’s Guild, Raelt. Whereas I have a [Court Mage] and King Perric of Medain knows that. The Claiven have also reached out to me, and you by proxy. They are concerned, but no one’s suggested refusing.”

“I don’t know how that would be a good idea. That would give him cause to go to war. Unless every nation did that, and the ones that didn’t would be safe.”

The minister was nodding impatiently.

“A trap in the words, obviously. Far easier to give him what he wants. What’s a few thousand citizens, or even ten thousand?”

“You’re not concerned by that?”

Raelt was surprised, but Lyfelt scoffed.

“Anyone who would follow the King of Destruction wouldn’t vote for my party or for me, would they? And I’ve already had to deal with a few incidents involving his supporters in some of my cities. Unpleasantness. I’ll be glad to wash my hands of them.”

Unpleasantness? Raelt shifted uncomfortably. It sounded a bit like what Warden Dulfe had described.

“Treat them with care, Lyfelt. The King of Destruction cares for his subjects.”

The bust rolled his eyes.

“I won’t be hanging them, Raelt. I’ll just turn them out and let them go on their way. It will free up housing, solve the issue of those damned fights over the King of Destruction—”

“So you’re going to do it.”

“Of course, of course. But I won’t make that decision until parliament’s fought it over for at least a day or two. And I’d encourage you to do the same. I’ll send over a few [Messages] when I’ve pinned down some of the other nations on a joint agreement. Feel free to correspond with the others, but be coy, Raelt. Let them think we’re hesitating to condemn Flos because we’re too close. As if we think he might renege on his word.”

“He won’t. Flos was never one to break his oaths lightly.”

“Obviously, or I wouldn’t count on him. But if we can make the other countries incentivize ours…what’s the tariff on Jecrass’ horse stock? I might be able to get Medain to lower the taxes they charge on [Merchant] caravans coming through their borders.”

“Always looking for a better deal, aren’t you?”

“One of us has to. How’s your daughter taking this by the way?”

“Terribly. In that she was excited by the news. She thinks he’s some kind of hero, and I have no idea where she got that from. Some of her young noble friends, no doubt. I haven’t said a word to her—”

“See, that’s where you’re wrong. My little boy’s just as excited, but when I can tear myself away, I’m going to sit him down and talk to him about the King of Destruction. Temper his views with mine. You should do the same.”

“Jecaina won’t want to listen.”

“Well, what if you phrased it like this? Have her come over to, ah, suggest who might visit Hellios, perhaps as a diplomatic party. Yes, one of your River Wardens and their offspring of course. Purely as emissaries, not as a friendly overture—we can even coordinate this with the negations with Medain. But you can call Jecaina over to ask her who’s the most level-headed, and when she demands to go, you can say—”

Raelt listened, blinking, as Lyfelt conjured a scenario out of thin air and laid it in his lap. He frowned, nodded, and left the Warded Chambers feeling a lot better. The man was truly quick with ideas and ways of pulling other people’s strings. King Raelt felt better for having spoken to another ruler, even if the conversation had only confirmed his course of action.

“Your Majesty?”

Geril was waiting for him, standing rather than sitting. Raelt wished the old man would just take a seat. He had been sitting and talking for a good forty minutes! He let Geril hobble after him until the man’s feet weren’t so stiff.

“I spoke to Lyfelt. Summon a [Mage]—I’ll need to send a good deal of [Messages] throughout the day. And I need to return to my court. More politics.”

“I see. And what will the realm’s response be?”

Geril’s voice was slightly anxious. Raelt smiled at him.

“We will give him no reason to find issue with Jecrass. That goes for anyone passing through our borders. I have no doubt there will be at least a few groups travelling south from Medain. We will treat them as his subjects and let anyone who wishes to leave go unmolested.”

“Will we dissuade them in any way, sire?”

“Not with violence. With words? Perhaps. I will be touring different estates later. Warden Dulfe’s especially, to see if I can persuade his folk to move elsewhere in Jecrass, not out of it. Even those who claim to follow the King of Destruction might be persuaded. They are citizens of Jecrass, even if their loyalties lie elsewhere. Let’s hope some change their minds.”

“I see, I see. And is that Belchan’s response as well?”

“It will be, eventually. We may make a statement with the other nations, but I have no desire to give Flos an excuse.”

“But Your Majesty—if his proclamations pass purely unchecked, is this not a victory for Reim?”

Raelt had been thinking the same thing as he spoke to Lyfelt. But now he shook his head.

“Minster Lyfelt assures me that this won’t be the case. He told me Reim’s worries don’t lie north, but rather in the south. There is a…gathering taking place of the rulers there.”

Geril’s brows creased. The elderly man frowned for a second.

“The south. Pomle?”

It was a good guess. Raelt nodded.

“The very same. They’re moving fast. Lyfelt is content to let them do…whatever it is he thinks they’re doing. I think we’ll find out in the next few days what is going to occur. But it won’t involve Jecrass at the moment.”

He turned and rested a hand on Geril’s shoulder. Raelt smiled down at his old retainer, and the [Head Servant] nodded. He smiled up at his [King], much as he had for over four decades of being at Raelt’s side, from boy to man.

“His Majesty does his best. I will gather the remaining court and find a [Mage]. But you have a bit of time, if you don’t mind me saying so, my liege. Why not rest an hour.”

“I may do that. Thank you, Geril.”

The [King] looked out the windows at the bright morning. He felt tired, but the weight was off his shoulders, mostly. He’d done what he could. Let the other nations make plots and schemes. Raelt was going to nip down to the stables and see if he could steal some carrots from the horses and eat them in his quarters. And he was going to savor the moment. Because he had a feeling those days would be in short supply in the future.

So went the [King] of Jecrass. In Pomle, another sort of ruler was having an equally eventful day.



——



It was past midmorning and into early evening when Orjin of Pomle was interrupted. He was in training, balancing on a pile of rocks with one foot. The stack was about six feet high, made up of a large rock with a relatively flat top, followed by ever-smaller rocks that threatened to shift and fall down with every move Orjin made with his one foot balanced on top of them.

But he didn’t fall. And despite Orjin being tall and heavy, from muscle, not fat, and despite the sweat beading his dark skin, he kept balancing on the rocks. That in itself was mildly impressive; Orjin had to constantly shift to keep the unstable tower of rocks from collapsing. But you wouldn’t know the complexity of the task unless you’d tried it once.

What was really impressive no matter how you looked at it was that every few seconds, Orjin would hop in the air and his feet would change from right foot to left. And the tower would tremble, but never collapse.

It was training, albeit of an unusual kind. The theory was that if you could keep your balance on a shifting pile of rocks, you could run up a collapsing hillside or fight on a rocking boat. There were Skills that would give you perfect footing no matter where you went of course, but Orjin wasn’t the sort to rely on gaining a Skill when he could simply learn what was needed.

However, the figure who strode up to him had no time for rocks, balancing, or sweating in the sun. She cleared her throat as Orjin shifted from left foot to right, lightning fast, and he looked down at her.

“Salii. Is there something you need of me?”

“Yes, Orjin. You’re needed by the water grounds in a few minutes. Do you have anything to wear?”

He gestured at his bare chest, and the loose pants he wore. They were worn, and Salii eyed them with clear dismay.

“Something more formal if you have it.”

“Why?”

Orjin sighed. He looked down at Salii and saw some of the sun’s light shining off her dusty, brown scales. She was a Drake, a rarity in Chandrar. She was also a [Secretary], or some class similar to that. If she was asking, it meant something was happening that required Orjin’s presence.

“There is a gathering, Orjin. At least eight nations are converging on Pomle. The first of them will be here within the hour, if not sooner.”

“Not for war.”

Orjin said that as a certainty. If that had been the case, Salii would have told him already. She shook her head, looking peeved as she saw him flip. One hand was suddenly supporting him as he held perfectly still, balancing upright. It was an impressive physical feat, but even Orjin couldn’t maintain it for more than a second. Then he lost his balance, and the tower of rocks came falling down. So did he, but he turned and landed neatly on the ground. Salii stepped back as the rocks fell around her. She swished her tail.

“Orjin—”

“I know. Tell me now.”

The man sat on the ground, sighing. Salii sat with him, and he looked at her, attentive, if not quite happy. He was no [King] or ruler in the sense of having a class. Perhaps he should have one, but Orjin of Pomle had no desire to be a leader. The fact that he was one was purely coincidental and had no bearing on how he lived his life. Most of the time, that was.

“Where should I begin? Last night—no, I suppose yesterday, the King of Destruction sent out a bunch of letters via Courier and Runner. [Messages] too, so some of the nations received word before the others. The upshot of it is that they all received the contents of his message, and they’re gathering here to discuss what the King of Destruction said.”

“Ah. He sent a letter?”

“Yes. To Pomle as well. I read it. Do you want to…?”

She offered an opened envelope to Orjin. He waved it away.

“Just tell me.”

“Well, essentially what he said was…”

Salii repeated the bare bones of Flos’ declaration to Orjin. When she had finished, he shook his head.

“Peace. And he wants his subjects to return to him? This doesn’t concern Pomle. We had no quarrel with the King of Destruction, and if anyone wished to go to him, they are already gone.”

“I know. But it matters to other nations. And because the rulers want to talk in person, they sent word. They’re coming.”

“Eight nations? Which ones?”

“All of our neighbors. And a delegation from Nerrhavia’s Fallen. They’re all moving fast, especially Nerrhavia, to get here.”

“Fine. Why does this concern me?”

The [Martial Artist], the warrior, folded his arms. Salii looked exasperated.

“Because you’re the Strongest of Pomle! The ruler!”

“So? Let them talk here.”

“It might not just be talk. Your presence is needed to guarantee the peace. And to make sure none of the other rulers take offense by your absence.”

Orjin sighed louder. Of course, he’d suspected that would be the case. He thought about refusing or walking off. Salii couldn’t stop him if he did, but…she was Salii.

Pomle was a small nation. If you looked at it on the map, it would be almost a complete circle, a little dot sandwiched between other nations, right at an intersection between four, in fact. It was a tiny nation, smaller even than Reim had been. But it was important, for Pomle was known far and wide as neutral territory.

It had no government, no rulers, and those who came to Pomle were free to do as they pleased. Most who lived in the country trained for combat, [Martial Artists], hermits practicing some style of weaponry—more than one famous warrior had trained in Pomle’s single oasis or on the plateaus of its grounds. But other sorts came to Pomle too. Outcasts. Refugees. Criminals.

No one regulated them. Or at least, no one actively made the people pay taxes or follow any rules. Troublemakers were dealt with. Murder and crime were also not tolerated; Pomle’s warriors would take matters into their own hands. Only two things held any sway over Pomle. Those were the tradition of the Strongest and Salii.

Orjin was the Strongest of Pomle. It was a simple title, and there was an even simpler way of choosing the Strongest. Whoever beat the current leader of Pomle took his or her place. Orjin had won this position eight years ago, and those who had challenged his position had all been defeated. There hadn’t been many challengers, actually; few people wanted the position. Most just wanted to live peacefully, and the Strongest had obligations.

One of those obligations was listening to Salii. No one could quite remember when she’d appeared. It had to be five years ago? At least. But one day, she’d shown up and started ordering people about. And they had listened mostly, because she had good ideas. Like how to settle quarrels over bathing. Organizing a place for children to play where adults wouldn’t accidentally intrude. Even convincing a [Mage] to draw some runes of preservation so food could be stored.

Things like that. Orjin hadn’t questioned Salii at first, and she’d gotten him to do any number of tasks he wouldn’t normally, from sorting out troublemakers to quelling monsters. He didn’t mind that; monster fighting was good practice. But sometimes she had requests like this.

“Why must I be there? For the status of the other rulers? If that is simply it, I will refuse.”

“Not just that, Orjin. All the monarchs are bringing escorts. And if they fight each other, it might be war. And that war could involve Pomle. If you’re there, you can make sure no blood is spilt—er, less blood is spilt.”

That made sense. Orjin tilted his head towards the sun, sighed, and then nodded.

“I have some more colorful clothing with my things. Let me dress.”

He stood up. Salii watched him leap over the collapsed pile of rocks and run towards a tall plateau of orange-red rock that defined Pomle’s geography. Orjin wasn’t long; he moved fast, and before more than two minutes had passed, he was running past with a more formal skirt made of bright, colored cotton, and a loose cape of some kind of animal or monster hide. He still had no clothing on his upper body, though.

“Where’d you get that?”

“A [Merchant] gave it to me once for saving his life on the road. Will it do?”

“It’s…fitting. Okay, come on. Let’s walk to the watering grounds.”

Orjin nodded. He walked across the bare, cracked earth with Salii. She was fully clothed and wore shoes; he did not. He was barefoot, but he didn’t feel the heat radiating up from the ground. Nor did he sweat as much as the Drake. The two headed towards a distant spot where a small stand of trees had grown up and water gathered.

An oasis, and not a mirage. The watering grounds were really just a hole in the ground where water had collected. Enough to let people live, and as such, anyone in Pomle would invariably visit the place for the precious resource. It was also the most populated area, as those less inclined to solo survival had made some structures here or found a reliable source of food from the thirsty birds and animals that came to drink from the watering grounds.

The Strongest of Pomle and the [Secretary] of Pomle set a quick pace at first, but it slowed when it became clear that their definition of ‘quick’ varied. It wasn’t that Salii was out of shape; she had lived in Pomle, and that was a harsh lifestyle at times. But Orjin was just too quick. He slowed to a crawl as she huffed and caught up to him, jogging. Orjin waited for Salii to catch her breath and then spoke.

“I have never asked it, Salii, but what brought you to Pomle?”

It had been five years since he’d known her, and this was the first question he’d really asked beyond her name and what she did. Salii glanced up at him, surprised. The Drake swished her tail and shrugged. She consulted her little sheet of parchment secured to the clipboard of wood as she spoke. It was one of the things she always carried with her.

“I thought it would be a challenge. Pomle has no industry. No trade goods or proper economy to speak of. There are no bureaucrats, no system of government besides the tradition of the strongest, and no treasury. There isn’t even a proper waste disposal system in Pomle.”

“We bury our waste far from the water.”

“I meant sewage, Orjin. Half of Pomle’s citizens live in tents or isolated structures, very few of which are made out of stone. The rest sleep in the open. This place would give any other [Secretary], [Overseer], or [Manager]-class nightmares.”

“So, why did you stay?”

“Well, I thought I’d level up faster here.”

“And did you?”

The Drake [Secretary] gave Orjin a toothy smile. He smiled as well. That was a good answer, all told. For if you were coming to Pomle, it was probably to do just that. Level up, to be alone, or to find a challenge. Pomle was not a place where you came to be famous or make a fortune. It was a special, small nation, the newest to Chandrar.

“Here we are. Oh, Ancestors. Some of the monarchs have already arrived! Orjin, you need to say something.”

“What?”

“I don’t know! Give the peace speech you did last time.”

“Very well.”

He sighed. The watering grounds were clearly visible ahead of him. He could see the relatively wetter ground was occupied. Someone had set up tents here, and not the weathered homes of some of Pomle’s residents. These were bright, silk affairs, and there were pennants flying from the top of them. Horses, people…Orjin couldn’t remember when he’d last seen so many gathered here.

“Let’s see…this looks like Mediv, Xem, Lamullt—none of the huge nations are present yet. But these are still [Kings] and [Queens], Orjin. Look. That’s one delegation right there, by the edge of the watering grounds.”

Orjin saw them. Two dozen riders, looking for a place to tie up their mounts. And that was just the main group. It looked like a small group of richly-dressed folk—the [King] and [Queen], perhaps, and a son—along with some courtiers. Behind them were a double-row of soldiers riding camels. They were trying to eye the other guests at the watering ground and shot Orjin and Salii a distrustful glance as they approached.

“[Camel Knights]?”

“Something like that. I’ll announce you—”

“No need.”

Orjin had spotted another group at the edge of the watering hole. They were leading their horses to drink, and he thought he could tell the [Knights] apart, if only because they were wearing the heaviest armor of all the three groups. They were offering the water to their horses and chasing away some of Pomle’s people from the watering hole. Orjin could hear one of them shouting as he approached.

“Clear off! This is Lamullt’s royal escort! Anyone who interferes with the path of his Highness of Lamullt will be dealt with!”

The [Knight] speaking looked hot, irritable in the dry weather, and out of patience with the children and people of Pomle, none of whom were showing him deference. Orjin could see they were the owners of the silk tent, striped yellow and white. And the [Knight] was keeping the others from the watering hole.

“Orjin—”

“You there. Back up. This is Lamullt’s—”

Another armored man blocked Orjin’s way as he strode past the bright tents. He glanced dismissively at Orjin and then noted the man’s body with another frown. He put his hand on his sword.

“This is King Victal of Lamullt’s—”

“The watering grounds are open to everyone. Stop interfering with Pomle’s citizens.”

Orjin stared at the man. The [Knight] glared at him.

“Did you not hear me? This is Lamullt’s [King] residing in the tent over there! He has claimed this space in preparation for the meeting of the monarchy. This…hole will be free for others to use it when—”

He got no further. Orjin was reaching out to brush him aside and watching the man’s hand tighten on his sword. He wouldn’t get the chance to unsheathe it if he tried. But before he could, and violate the law of Pomle, a shape hurtled past Orjin, and a wooden clipboard smacked the [Knight] in the face.

“Gah!”

“Back up!”

Salii slapped the [Knight] over the head as he jerked back. He tried to grab his sword, but the [Secretary] dealt him two more swift blows to the head with the edge of her clipboard. She was quick, and Orjin stopped to admire her technique. Before the [Knight] could draw his blade or his comrades interfere, Salii was shouting at him.

“You, draw that sword and you and Lamullt violate the peace of Pomle! And you, the idiots at the watering hole! Pull your stallions back! If they foul the waters, they’re horse meat!”

The [Knight] at the watering hole jerked his head around. He scowled at Salii.

“How dare you. And who is this?”

He pointed at Orjin, who was looking around, surveying the other two camps. Nobles, retainers, servants—they were making a mess as they set up everywhere. He felt disgusted; normally, he’d let any caravan go through Pomle and just stay far away, but he had to be here for this? On the other hand, he saw what Salii meant. All three nations had brought warriors, escorts, and they would be a hard fight to put down for most of Pomle’s warriors if they started one.

“Shut up and move those horses back! Draw that blade and you will lose that hand! This is the Strongest of Pomle, Orjin! And in this land, none of you have any rights beyond entry! If you offer violence in this place, you void that right!”

Salii was shouting at the [Knights], waving her clipboard in the leader’s face. He stared at Orjin, glancing at the man’s bare chest and his skirt made of cotton. Orjin thought it was a wonderfully colored thing, but he glanced to one side and saw a group of what might have been nobles in rich silk attire staring at him. Orjin returned the look blankly and then saw someone push the tent flaps back.

A [King] emerged from the tent, and a localized hush fell amid his subjects. Not on Salii, Orjin, or any of Pomle’s subjects. No longer impeded by the [Knights], several children leapt into the watering hole with a splash.

The bit of noise drew the attention of the other two parties. They drew closer, eying each other like foreign cats. A man in bright clothing strode forwards as the riders approached on their horses. Orjin spotted a circlet of gold on the man and women in the center and one of silver on the boy following them. The [Herald] took a deep breath and shouted.

“His Majesty of Xem, his Royal Excellency, [King] Aliman. Her Majesty of Xem, her Royal Excellency—”

One of the other men stepped forwards and tried to shout over him.

“You are in the presence of His Highness of Mediv! Bow your heads before—”

“Silence.”

Orjin lifted his foot and stomped. At the same time, he used a Skill, and a tremor ran through the ground. Just for a second. Salii, standing next to him, lost her balance, and the riders’ horses reared. In the watering hole, a bit of the dirt exterior collapsed, and the children happily screamed as they jumped into the water. The shouting men stopped and every head turned towards Orjin. He looked around.

Now, what did Salii want him to say? Oh, yes, the speech. Orjin spoke as he looked at both [Kings], the one from the tent, the one on horseback, and then the woman standing behind a line of [Soldiers] who were all pointing their spears at him.

“This is Pomle. I am the Strongest of Pomle, Orjin. Thirty years ago, we claimed this land and fought every nation who tried to impose their rules on us. And for thirty years, Pomle has known peace. The King of Destruction’s armies passed us by. Pomle has nothing, though many claim sanctuary in our lands. But we have always been a place for those who wish to train. This is why Pomle is neutral ground.”

He looked around. Three rulers stared back at a man without a shirt, sweat dried by the sun, dust covering his legs and feet. Orjin returned their gazes impassively.

“So I warn you once, rulers of foreign countries. Hold to this peace. Conduct your talks as you will, and I will guarantee the peace. But to anyone who violates the peace, their safety is no longer assured. Stop no one from drinking from the watering grounds. I will stay here to maintain the peace so long as the talks continue. Salii is the [Secretary]. Speak to her if you have any questions.”

Then he turned and walked away. Salii blinked as all eyes turned to her. The Drake smiled. She waved her clipboard.

“You heard him. If you want to tie up your horses, you’ll have to find space further away from the watering hole. The same goes for, um, ditches to relieve yourselves. It has to be away from the water. As for the meeting, please keep this space clear. We’re expecting the delegation from the Illivere League to arrive any minute now…”



——



Orjin didn’t bother to socialize with the first monarchs who arrived. They didn’t seem keen on approaching him either. Their escorts, on the other hand, kept staring at Orjin warily, as smaller predators tended to do when a larger, more dangerous creature was around. Of course, Orjin had no intention of starting violence. He was more annoyed by the spears and other weaponry, but Salii had talked him into letting them keep the arms.

“It’s not like Pomle doesn’t have our own warriors around, and they are monarchs. They fear assassination. And you have your hands and feet.”

And they were weapons in themselves. Orjin acquiesced with bad grace and spent his time sitting on top of one of the date palms that grew around Pomle. That got him more askance looks, but it was perfectly common; several children strong enough to make the climb had done the same, and Orjin recognized two warriors, one a [Spear Dancer], the other a [Martial Artist] like him, sitting on the tree tops and watching the sights. That was how Orjin spotted the delegation from Tiqr first.

The noise that split the air as the delegation came into view was a trumpeting blast. But it came from no horn. The creature that appeared over the tops of the palms was grey, huge. Its steps were long, and as it swayed its huge head, its tusks caught the light. Ivory, capped with gold. And it was similarly adorned with a riding booth.

On top of it sat a woman. And before her raced warriors wearing cloth armor riding striped zebras. Hyenas bounded forwards, terrifying the horses and other animals. They raced ahead of men and women who walked side-by-side with lions. The elephant raised its trunk to the sky and blew another sound, scaring the birds out of the watering hole.

They flew about her as she rode in. A laughing woman dressed in clothing almost as revealing as Orjin’s. But her garb was made of feathers and bright cloth. As she approached, the rest of her escort dove out of the sky. A flock of Garuda of every color, swooping about her.

“Tiqr.”

Salii stood with Orjin as he watched the procession come to a halt. It was as large as all three escorts that had come before it and then some. He shook his head as the woman on the elephant’s back patted the animal, and it blew a third trumpet before she slid to the ground off its back.

“I know that much. And that woman riding the Grand Elephant. She would be the Empress of Beasts, wouldn’t she?”

“She would.”

Salii stared at the [Empress] as she landed on the ground. She was nothing like the monarchs who stared at her as if they were witnessing another strange beast. The [Empress] looked to Orjin like a warrior as much as a leader. And he knew without asking that she was a [Beast Master]. Her mount proved that.

Elephants were already huge creatures. But the Grand Elephant was easily half again as large as the regular elephants that Orjin knew. It seemed impossible that such a huge creature could exist, let alone sustain itself, but Grand Elephants were able to travel vast distances in search of food. And in the savannas of Tiqr, food was abundant. As were other, less friendly animals.

Hyenas. Riding zebra. Even a pair of lions. All these animals would scarcely tolerate each other, let alone Humans in such close proximity. But the animals took their places, as docile as could be. And as she walked past, the hyenas crouched. The lions lowered their maned heads. Even the elephant appeared to kneel.

“Strongest of Pomle!”

The [Empress of Beasts] came to Orjin first. She ignored the other monarchs and laughed as she embraced Orjin. She smelled of the wild, and she was strong.

“I am Empress Nsiia of Tiqr. I greet you, Strongest of Pomle. I have come to this gathering with little warning, and for that, I offer you my apologies. My escort will drink of Pomle’s waters if it is acceptable, and for that boon, I offer you this.”

She gestured, and Orjin saw that there were more conventional forms of transport behind her procession of animals. From a wagon, a pair of brawny men jumped to the ground with a coffer. It was filled with jewels.

“Treasures of Tiqr. A small price for water, is it not? Will you accept?”

Orjin felt a claw jab him in the back repeatedly. He ignored it.

“Pomle welcomes all those who offer no violence, Empress Nsiia of Tiqr. No gift is needed.”

Salii kicked Orjin in the back of the legs and only succeeded in hurting her own foot. The Empress smiled, and there was a sparkle to her eyes from within, like an inner light.

“It is a gift offered freely, then. As friends must. Tell me, what is your name?”

“Orjin of Pomle. And if that is the case, I will accept.”

“Good. I would that I could speak with you longer, Strongest. Until then—”

Nsiia inclined her head, and Orjin did the same. She swept past him as Salii hurried forwards to claim the bounty of gemstones. Orjin ignored the gems as he watched Nsiia sweep past him. He eyed one of the hyenas, who was baring its teeth in an unsettling grin as it watched one of the camels. He didn’t know what to make of Nsiia. He was more sure of Illivere, who arrived next.

“This is the escort of the Illivere League’s people. It has to be.”

Salii pointed out the next group that approached from the east. She was muttering to Orjin, trying to catch him up on everything she thought he should know. He was listening with only half an ear; Nsiia had settled her people in, and she was speaking with one of the monarchs as the rest turned to watch the next ruler approach.

“I’ve heard of Illivere’s riches.”

“It’s not the same as Tiqr’s. Frankly speaking, Empress Nsiia is the poorest ruler of the four major nations that will appear here. Illivere will be the second-richest.”

Orjin thought of the casket of jewels, so casually offered up.

“The Empress of Beasts appeared rich enough to me.”

“It’s by comparison. She’s still richer than Mediv or Xem or the other smaller nations. But Illivere makes its fortunes from its industry and high number of artisans. It exports cheap goods, everything from cut stone to food to processed ore. And its people are almost all craftsmen or scholars—few laborers. And that’s because the country runs on—”

“Golems.”

The procession was close enough for Orjin to pick up the huge, lumbering shapes walking among the shorter Humans on horseback and foot. Salii caught her breath.

“Yes. They’re one of the few nations that manufactures them. The Illivere League has a powerful army, if a slow one, and their workforce never slows. They only need repairing and energy. They’ve brought some with them, obviously.”

“I see War Golems.”

The steel giants that walked ahead of Illivere were truly massive. Some of the shorter porter golems were made of stone or sand that were ‘only’ seven or eight feet tall. But the pair of giants that walked ahead of the group were fourteen feet tall. Both held flags with Illivere’s symbol on it. And it was a procession of four Golems that carried a palanquin loaded with treasures. The man who rode in front of it was fair-skinned, bespectacled, a figure who looked more at home inside reading than out in the sun. He also greeted Orjin first after his herald had called his name.

“Strongest of Pomle, this is a small token of Illivere’s gratitude for allowing us to meet on your soil today. Please accept these vintages from Illivere’s orchards, foods and delicacies from all over the league’s holdings.”

The man who stood shorter than both Orjin and Empress Nsiia was polite, well-spoken, and precise with his words. He was no ruler, but someone like Orjin, who had been given the position without the class. For all that, he seemed impossible to shake and shook Orjin’s hand fearlessly.

“Thank you, First Crafter-Magus Femithain of Illivere. We will accept your gift.”

Orjin sighed as he looked at the massive pile of goods the golems were mechanically piling up in front of him. They moved slowly, but with confidence in every move. The animals of Nsiia’s group and the horses and camels all stayed as far away from the golems as possible. Femithain bowed slightly again to Orjin and went to greet Empress Nsiia, fearless and self-contained.

That left Orjin with the huge pile of goods. And these weren’t exactly able to be squirreled away by Salii. He heard a tap as someone landed behind him. One of Pomle’s warriors had jumped to the ground. She leaned on her spear and looked at him.

“Orjin. More gifts?”

“Apparently.”

“Where do we put them?”

The Strongest of Pomle looked at the pile of food. It was all rich stuff, but it was going to rot fast in the sun, especially because there were few good places to store all of it. He waved a hand at the crowd of Pomle’s folk, who were watching Illivere’s golems make ready the camp from afar.

“Spread the word. We have drinks, food…let Salii take whatever she wants first and make sure no one takes what she claims.”

The spear-wielding warrior grinned and bounded off. In minutes, she was back, and she snagged a bottle of wine from the cargo before hundreds of Pomle’s citizens descended on the gift. They grabbed what they could carry, walked off, and those who wanted more came back for it. Orjin ignored all of it; he had no desire for the food or drinks at the moment. He was sure someone would share it with him if there was any left over later.

Femithain was clearly trying to suppress his expression as he watched a huge crowd gather and claim the rest of the goods. A little Garuda girl, barely more than a chick, ran off with a bottle of Illivere’s finest vintages and some of the others began eating or drinking the rich goods there on the spot.

Salii fought her way out of the mess, looking disgruntled. She glared at Orjin as she wiped sweat off her forehead.

“I rescued some of the goods. We’ll keep it stored for later, or perhaps to trade. Did you have to let the rest of it be eaten now?”

“We don’t have many places to store so much. And for what occasion would we save it? If you wanted, we could have traded all of it for money.”

“Yes, but Crafter-Magus Femithain clearly intended these as a gift to you.”

The Drake looked pointedly at Orjin. He shrugged.

“He gave it to Pomle. And it is Pomle who enjoys his gift. It’s fairly done. You know that.”

“Yes, but some tact—”

“Another group is coming. South.”

“Savere. Hold on, I’d better get the rest of the goods into shelter.”

“Why?”

Salii pointed up. Orjin stared at the skies and blinked. The bare, blue skies had suddenly clouded over. As the distant procession drew nearer, a miracle happened.

Rain began to fall. At first a drizzle, then a shower. It soaked the wet earth. Pomle’s people looked up, surprised. The watering hole greedily drank the liquid as it ran into the space. The rest wet the earth, and before the waters could truly begin to conjure a flood, the rains stopped. The clouds vanished.

The Siren of Savere walked forwards, and the waters formed a path in the sands for her.

Orjin stared.

If Tiqr was a land of beasts and people, and Illivere one of regulation and commerce, and Pomle free chaos, then Savere fell into a position between Tiqr and Illivere. Its people were wild. They rode forwards with no semblance of order, laughing. And more than one looked to Orjin like folk from the waters. Indeed, some were even walking alongside the woman walking in the center of the trail of water.

Drowned People. Children of the ocean. And the chaotic warriors who raced ahead of their [Queen]. But it was the Siren who made the biggest impact as the waters she called lapped at the feet of those gathered in the watering grounds. Water, that most precious of things in dry Chandrar. And here was a [Mage] who controlled it.

“I am Revine, Siren of Savere. I have come to speak of the King of Destruction.”

That was all Revine said. She offered no greetings to Orjin, nor to the other monarchs. She stood at the watering hole and looked down at it. Her folk spread out, laughing and pointing at the animals of Tiqr and the Golems of Illivere as if they were some huge jest. The Drowned People stood behind Revine.

A child wandered up to the Siren of Savere as she surveyed the watering hole. She picked her nose as she stared up at Revine. The Siren stared at her and then at the small watering hole.

“Is this all the water Pomle has, child?”

“Yes? Can you conjure rain?”

“Yes. And my people demand it of me. Without water, the Drowned Folk wither and die. Without water, all things die. This water is…insufficient. So let more fall.”

The Siren raised her hand. And the clouds gathered. Orjin looked up and saw more water begin to fall from the skies. Just like that. At first a shower, then a torrent.

Pomle’s citizens ran for cover. The other monarchs retreated, some shouting insults. Femithain shook his head as his Golems set up covering for his people. Empress Nsiia stood in the rains and laughed as her animals enjoyed the rain. And Orjin? He shook his head.

“A dangerous ruler. The most dangerous of the three in a way.”

He looked at Salii. The Drake wiped water off her scales as she tried to cover her clipboard.

“The most powerful magically, at least. She’s drawing the water from the atmosphere. It will be twice as dry in Pomle for a while after this.”

Orjin could only shrug at that. He watched the Siren of Savere for another moment. And then he turned away.

“One more, isn’t there?”

“Yes. Nerrhavia has the farthest to come. But they swore they would be here. And I don’t doubt it.”

The [Secretary] wasn’t wrong. The rains lasted for an hour, by which time the ground was saturated and the watering hole overflowing. At Salii’s request, it was even widened by people with shovels and sticks to contain more water. The sun had returned, and Orjin’s damp skin was drying by the time he looked east a final time and saw them.

Chariots. Dozens, possibly as many as a hundred, racing across the ground. This was an army, and all the other monarchs looked up. Some were uneasy, others just wary. The Siren of Savere narrowed her eyes as her cohort gathered around her. For if her country was mighty, if Tiqr and Illivere were both major powers, here came a colossus of nations. Even Orjin was familiar with it.

Nerrhavia Fallen, one of the largest nations of Chandrar. And because of that, the most powerful, wealthiest, and most populated nation of all those gathered here today. A kingdom of String-people, vast beyond belief. That was who rode the chariots into Pomle, riding around the other groups. Bright folk, their skin glossy, almost shining in the light.

String-people. Made of silk. If cotton was to normal flesh, then silk was something beyond that when Stitch-people made their bodies out of the stuff. They looked inhumanly beautiful and graceful, and their features were perfect. Of course; they’d stitched their appearances out of cloth. They could be what their hearts desired. So they drove their chariots in, hundreds of perfect folk. And the [Queen] who rode a chariot of gold pulled by two white stallions was the most beautiful of all.

Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia was light brown of skin with flawless flowing black hair and skin softer than should have been possible. Her eyes sparkled like brilliant emeralds, and her features were perfect down to the line of her nose, to her lips. She moved like she was dancing at every moment, and she possessed a radiance about her. An aura.

She was a monster to Orjin. He looked at her once as she stepped down from her chariot, and he knew her body was made of some fabric more expensive than silk. She wore it, she had made her features of it, and she had become something…strange. He was attracted to her, and so was everyone who beheld Yisame. They stared, men and women alike. Even the animals. That was what made her terrifying. The [Queen]’s escorts followed her, forming a procession of warriors and servants, each more fantastic than the last. All made of silk.

Graceful, beautiful, and strong. Silk provided little protection against slashing weapons compared to regular cotton, but warriors who were made of the stuff were lightweight, stronger than normal, and hard to damage with fists or blunt weapons. It was also one of the most expensive of fabrics, manufactured only in nations like Nerrhavia. Yet all of Yisame’s escort was made of the stuff.

It was a show of power. Orjin of Pomle watched with Salii for two minutes and then went to get a drink of water. The procession was still coming in after that, so he walked off and had a drink from the watering hole while he heard chariots roll in and horses whinny.

Salii found Orjin at the edge of the pool. She glared at him.

“Orjin, she’s waiting for you!”

“Who?”

“Queen Yisame! She’s greeted the other monarchs!”

Orjin got up reluctantly. He walked back and found that the ruler of Nerrhavia was indeed waiting for him. She looked down her nose at him and his still-damp skirt. Her attendants looked askance at Orjin’s bare chest and flawed body.

“Strongest of Pomle?”

The word was half-question, half-mockery at the title. Orjin stared up at the beautiful face, the mischievous smile and distant look, as if Yisame were looking down at him despite Orjin being taller. He nodded curtly.

“Some call me that. I am Orjin of Pomle. And you are welcome in Pomle, so long as you abide by the laws of hospitality, Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia.”

“I will consider it. But I have come far to speak only of one man. All else is paltry. You may go. Pomle has nothing I wish of you.”

Yisame flicked her wrist at Orjin, and the others around her laughed. Orjin turned to go without so much as a word. Nerrhavia had nothing he wished for either.

So they were gathered here. Four major nations of Tiqr, Savere, Nerrhavia, and Illivere. A few other monarchs had arrived, their entrances completely overshadowed or rained over by the other, larger nations. To Orjin, it was like seeing four adults walking among children.

Empress Nsiia of Tiqr.

Crafter-Magus Femithain of the Illivere League.

Revine, the Siren of Savere.

And [Queen] Yisame of Nerrhavia Fallen.

They were the names to remember here. Each knew the others, if not by face, then by name. By presence. Each one was highest in level in their own way. Although of the four…it was strange. Femithain might have been the highest-level, but he was no ruler. Revine was mighty as a [Mage], but Orjin thought it was Empress Nsiia who boasted the highest level as a ruler of all of them.

And by contrast, Yisame felt like the lowest-level if he closed his eyes and compared her presence, not her escort. Compared to them, the lesser monarchs hovered about, striking a mix between courtesy and their own self-importance. It took a while for the introductions to be finished, and in that time, Orjin realized Nerrhavia and some of the other nations had brought delicacies to be served to those attending. Since he was apparently included in that austere gathering, he ate his fill as he waited for things to get interesting or for everyone to go away.

The actual meeting, as such, was very short. Informal, even. The gathered rulers waited about, perhaps for Orjin or Salii to ask one of them to speak. But why would Pomle do that? Eventually, the rulers realized they would have to take matters into their own hands and broke up, some talking to another and others gathering in small groups to talk while their retainers hovered about them.

It was rather like watching groups of birds mingle together. Orjin, eating some roasted meats that tasted like a bird of some sort, sat patiently on the ground. His ears, like his eyes and nose, were far stronger than they should be, and he could hear snippets of conversations. From some. At times, there would be pockets of silence as one of the monarchs deployed a spell or Skill that muffled Orjin’s hearing. The sensation was unpleasant, like cotton wedged deeply in the ear.

No one was happy about the King of Destruction’s letter. But the degree to which they were concerned varied from monarch to monarch. Femithain was concerned and made his objection clear to Revine as they spoke together.

“He wants his people back. His veterans. If other nations allow this, a number of Reim’s scattered allies might reach his kingdom without making enemies of every nation around them.”

“A clever trick.”

The Siren’s voice was low, her gaze piercing. She glared past Illivere at some of the haughty Stitch-Folk from Nerrhavia. She looked back at the Crafter-Magus.

“His allies are scattered, but with this, he could guarantee their safe passage. And you are right. There are many who fought for the King of Destruction. He could form an army of experienced soldiers. It strengthens Reim and buys him time against his enemies.”

“However, by the same token, he has pledged to attack no one.”

“You think that matters? The King of Destruction will find an excuse. He always has. What will stop him from breaking his vow when he has grown enough in strength?”

“His enemies, one suspects. But you are correct, Siren Revine. This benefits Reim. The question is: will enough nations defy his imposed ‘peace’? This is one such gathering, but I would not commit Illivere to such a course of action.”

“…No. No, it would make targets out of our nations. That is true enough. And yet, what if Nerrhavia dared? The Empire of Sands is already the King of Destruction’s enemy. He cannot fight on too many fronts.”

“But how many might he fight on? I have heard reports the Lord of the Skies and his tribe are raiding the outskirts of the Empire of Sands constantly. If he were to send Takhatres against the League of Illivere, just one of his Seven—”

“He cannot stand against all of us.”

“But who is ‘us’, Siren? I came here to discuss a course of action, but fighting the King of Destruction does not appeal to me.”

That was Illivere. Cautious and refusing to commit. Whereas Revine, the Siren of Savere, was open about her hatred for Flos. On the other hand, Empress Nsiia and Queen Yisame of Nerrhavia—

“I cared little for the proclamation, Queen Yisame. But tell me, does Nerrhavia desire war? You sent no army against Reim with the coalition, and you were surely able to do so.”

Yisame brushed her hair back impatiently, wrinkling her nose as Nsiia fed one of her hyenas by hand.

“I did not care to. It is true that the smaller nations petitioned Nerrhavia to enter the battle. What of it? Nerrhavia does not fear the King of Destruction. Nor do I wish to spend the time and energy it would take to battle his nation. The only thing that has roused my ire is his demands of my nation. In that, Flos of Reim has erred and provoked my response. And you, Empress of Beasts?”

Nsiia grinned up at Yisame’s face as the hyena prowled away.

“I counted Flos of Reim as my ally, once. Tiqr will abide by his peace and his request. It is a simple thing to answer, isn’t it?”



—-



“She said that? Curious.”

Femithain and Yisame stood together, speaking quietly. The Queen of Nerrhavia looked down at him.

“And you, Crafter-Magus? What does the assembled will of Illivere think? Or is it paralyzed by fear?”

The Crafter-Magus’ gaze didn’t waver as he adjusted his spectacles.

“Illivere waits and thinks, Queen Yisame. There are actions that benefit Illivere. I think war does not benefit Illivere. On the other hand, it benefits few nations, Nerrhavia included. I came to ascertain if I had allies…or enemies before choosing my next course.”

He held Yisame’s gaze, not affected by her charms. She hesitated.

“Very well. I withdraw my words.”

“I thank you for that. As for Empress Nsiia, she seems to be held in her course. May I ask if Nerrhavia is the same?”

“How do you mean?”

“Nerrhavia is an enemy of Reim, or at least, no friend. It would fain see the King of Destruction ended. But Flos of Reim is battling the Empire of Sands, is he not?”

“So?”

“Is the Emperor of Sands an enemy to Nerrhavia? I’ve heard he is of the String-people. And he claims…”

For the first time, Yisame looked uncomfortable. She held up a hand.

“I did not come here to discuss that…one. I only care for the King of Destruction’s letter.”

She swept away from Femithain, and his eyes followed her. A few minutes later, Nsiia and Revine nearly came to blows.

“The King of Destruction looted Savere! His armies plundered my lands and my treasuries! Shouldn’t I hold a grudge against that?”

“As far as I understand it, he did to Savere what your [Pirates] have done to other nations for years. Or did your ships not raid Zeres four months back? Izril, Terandria, Baleros—Savere is a home to ships and theft from every part of the world, isn’t it, Siren?”

The [Empress] and the Siren stood eye-to-eye, glaring at each other. There was a dangerous feeling in the air, but Nsiia’s hand was on her belt. She had put aside the spear she carried, but her knife was still there, and Revine knew it. The Siren breathed in heavily.

“My ships and my ports offer sanctuary. Moreover, it is my land. My grudge against the King of Destruction is mine to carry, not for others to judge.”

“Then is it war between Savere and Reim?”

The Empress of Beasts challenged Revine. The Siren’s eye twitched. Behind her, the watering hole’s calm surface began to shift ominously.

“Not yet. But should Reim’s territory ever expand towards any coast, it will not be safe from my wrath. Or that of my sister. And if you claim friendship with the King of Destruction, I would warn you as well, Empress of Beasts.”

She turned and stalked away. Orjin sat and watched Nsiia shake her head and turned to soothe her hyenas, who’d gathered around her protectively. Salii frowned as she watched the gathering.

“She’s the only one of them who’s speaking out in Reim’s favor. It might be a mistake.”

“Perhaps.”

That was all Orjin said. He watched as Revine and Yisame spoke quickly and quietly in a bubble of silence. They both showed something to each other. Orjin could see it was a letter before they quickly hid it once more. He saw Yisame nod and Revine bare her teeth. They were not the only ones with the letter or the only ones who shared a conversation in silence.

The tension bubbling up between Nsiia and the other monarchs was now in full boil. But it came to a head when Nsiia raised her voice after an argument with the Queen of Xem.

“I was but a girl when Flos of Reim appeared on Tiqr’s borders. I opened my borders to him and joined my armies to his because I believed in the righteousness of his cause. Hadn’t he done away with monsters and enriched his lands beyond belief?”

She looked around as the other monarchs turned to face her. The Empress of Beasts spread her arms wide, shouting to them and the other retainers in their escort.

“He brought wealth back to Chandrar! Those who accepted him as friend prospered! It was his enemies, those who refused to join with him and made war, who suffered. Did he not bring riches unimaginable back to his kingdom?”

“By looting every land he came across! Tiqr might have been spared, but Savere was not! Nor was Nerrhavia!”

Revine’s eyes were furious as they locked on Nsiia’s. The [Empress] smiled coldly. She was younger than the other three, save perhaps for Yisame.

“He was willing to fight against the other continents who wanted to turn Chandrar into a plaything to be fought over by their armies. Yes, his ambitions failed and he abandoned his people. What of it? He has returned, and whatever wrongs he has committed could be aimed at any nation here, ten times over.”

She turned to face the other monarchs. And some could not bear to meet her eyes. Those that could gave her hard looks. Nsiia shook her head contemptuously.

“I do not call myself the King of Destruction’s subject any longer. I am not the girl I was, nor is he the [King] I know. But I will not join with you to attack him if that is what you plot, like cowards hiding in the dunes. I came here to say that and to dare a bit of bravery from the hearts of my fellow rulers. I see that was a lost cause. Cowards, the lot of you.”

She turned and began to walk away. That was too much. One of the String-people in Nerrhavia’s delegation unsheathed his sword.

“No one insults Nerrhavia’s Queen so! To arms, brethren!”

Nsiia whirled as dozens of String-people unsheathed their weapons. Behind her, the Grand Elephant trumpeted alarm, and her Garuda and Human soldiers grabbed their weapons and sprang up. The Stitch-Warrior who’d shouted charged at the Empress of Beasts. He sprang, and Orjin caught him and slammed his head into the ground.

A smooth move. And the blow cracked the earth a bit. The Stitch-Warrior went limp, and Orjin felt at his head. Yes, the right amount of force. His skull wasn’t even cracked; the silk body made him tougher. But not that tough. He turned as another warrior rushed at him.

“You d—”

He’d probably said ‘you dare?’ Orjin watched him land on the ground after he’d kicked him and realized he’d never know what was said. He turned, stepped back as a silvery blade slashed twice at his chest, and lunged forwards. The Stitch-Woman went down, choking.

“Defend Her Majesty!”

“Protect his Royal Highness!”

“To me, men of Xem—”

“Golems, on guard! Hold, and defend but do not engage—”

“Strike the skies, Garuda! Circle and aim! To me, Mezha!”

A flurry of voices screamed orders at once. Nsiia leapt backwards as her Grand Elephant, Mezha, charged forwards. Everyone scattered as the trunks scythed the ground, and Nsiia pulled herself up into the chair on top. Garuda were in the skies. Orjin saw dozens of blades being drawn. He lashed out, knocking another one flying with a fist. He dodged a thrust, chopped down, and knocked a spear from a loose grip. He punched up, and the body went flying.

“Stop, stop! No violence in Pomle! Stop, or else—”

Salii was shouting, but no one was listening. She ducked as a blast of water knocked a dozen [Knights] to the ground. The Siren of Savere was pointing at Nsiia. And it might have been war then, or death. But that was when Orjin grabbed the spear.

“Her Majesty—”

The first Stitch-Warrior screamed as the spear tip went under his armpit and cut up. His arm went flying, and he clutched at his shoulder. It wasn’t bleeding; the arm had turned to cloth as Orjin severed it. But the pain was real. And every head turned as Orjin charged towards the Stitch-People on their chariots. They were trying to mount up, but the stallions were frightened by the other animals and the magic. They turned, aiming at Orjin as he leapt at them.

[Spear Dance: Crashing Rapids]. The screams of the warriors half-mounted in their chariots filled the air. Legs, arms, hands, all went flying. The instant Orjin’s spear severed the limbs, they became cloth, bits of silk, cut by the powerful blows. The only time the warriors bled was when the spear failed to sever a limb completely. Orjin whirled his spear, cut both legs off a downed Stitch-Warrior, and turned.

Elephant. It was rampaging towards him, intent on crushing everything in its path. Orjin rushed at it. The Grand Elephant was huge. He leapt at it and saw its head go down, trying to gore him. But the Grand Elephant hadn’t expected Orjin to jump so high. He leapt up until he was nearly level with its forehead. He saw Empress Nsiia gaping at him and drew back a fist. He punched Mezha in the skull once. The Grand Elephant blinked, stopped, and sat down.

“Empress!”

A jet of water blasted past Orjin’s head. It missed Nsiia, and the [Empress] ducked. The Siren of Savere was pointing at her. The second jet of water shot at Nsiia, hundreds of pounds of concentrated water, enough to blast flesh to shreds. Orjin, standing on Mezha’s head, raised a fist. He balanced on the dizzy Grand Elephant’s forehead, shifted his weight, aimed—and punched. Once.

The explosion of water and thunderclap of sound made everyone around Mezha duck. Water rained down harmlessly as a blast of air knocked the Siren back onto her rear. Orjin leapt down, spear ready. He threw it and hit a Golem in the face. The steel behemoth staggered, and Orjin charged it.

[Aeriform Shockwave]. A punching technique. Orjin didn’t use a Skill for the Golem. He just charged into its leg and began hammering on it. Pivot, punch. His fists left imprints in the steel, but the Golem was tough—

“Hold, hold! Yield! We yield!”

Someone was shouting frantically. Orjin looked around, blinking, and realized the War Golem was stumbling back. The [Knights] had thrown down their swords, and the String-people were holding up their hands—those that weren’t lying on the ground, that was. All stared at the man standing in the center of the destruction.

The Strongest of Pomle. He looked around, breathing a bit faster. Mezha was still blinking as the elephant felt at the place where he’d punched her. The String-people were cut to pieces—but alive. And the Golem was limping back, one leg badly malformed, the spear embedded in part of its head.

“What was—”

Queen Yisame shakily looked out from behind her ranks of protectors. There were hundreds of them and only one of Orjin. They could have brought him down; the best of her defenders had stayed with their [Queen]. But their confidence wavered as they realized Orjin had only been the first.

Nerrhavia’s finest looked up from their gilded chariots. They saw the people perched on the cliffs, sitting on top of the palm trees, standing on the dry ground.

Pomle’s warriors. They were staring down, armed with spears, some just bare-fisted. Savages living in a small nation. That was, until you remembered how Pomle had formed.

Neutral ground.

“Orjin. They’ve put down their weapons.”

A shaky voice spoke behind Orjin. He turned. Salii was clutching her clipboard like a shield. The Strongest of Pomle shook his head. He’d lost himself in the heat of combat for a second. He looked at the assembled rulers. They stared at him. Any one of them might be able to wipe Pomle off the map. With time. With their resources and their standing armies. But in this place?

“Bare a weapon again and the peace of Pomle is gone for the nation who strikes. Is that clear?”

They nodded. Orjin stood up. He rubbed at one of his fists.

That hurt.

“Then proceed. I’m going to have a drink of water.”

He turned and walked off.



——



“Would you challenge yourself against Mars the Illusionist, Strongest of Pomle?”

That was what Empress Nsiia asked Orjin when he returned from having a drink of water and reflecting on the fight. He looked at her.

“Mars the Illusionist? If she came to Pomle, I would challenge her. But in war? No.”

“You’ve never dreamed of going into battle? You’re as strong as any Named Adventurer, I would guess.”

Orjin shook his head.

“Killing people does not interest me. That isn’t why I train.”

“But your strength…”

He sighed. That was what was so hard to explain to [Warriors].

“I did not kill the String-people of Nerrhavia. I tried not to hurt your elephant, Mezha. I do not enjoy killing. Fighting, testing myself, breaking my limits? I enjoy that. But I would not fight the King of Destruction’s armies for so petty a reason.”

Nsiia blinked at Orjin. She looked around Pomle, little more than a watering hole and dust. And she didn’t understand. Even so, she clasped his hands.

“I thank you, then. I might have been hurt or gravely injured despite my protections. And you spared Mezha, for which I am grateful as well.”

“She was not hurt?”

That made Orjin smile slightly. Nsiia nodded.

“She’s merely dizzy. But well enough to walk with a healing potion. I think I shall be going soon.”

“That seems wise.”

Indeed, no one else had deigned to talk with Nsiia after the incident. Her people were indeed packing, and the Garuda warriors were warily circling even now. But one man did step forwards to exchange a few words before the Empress of Beasts left.

Femithain spoke to Nsiia in a little bubble of silence. He’d included Orjin in it for some reason, but the man made no comment. He sat back down and listened as the two spoke quietly.

“Illivere is neutral, Empress. But I think that word means something different to all those present. I would warn you…”

“Not to ally with the King of Destruction? As I said, I am neither his ally nor his enemy for now. You are all intent on being his enemies, Crafter-Magus.”

“He is not a man who inspires peace, Empress Nsiia. But I fear it is too late for talk of alliances and enemies. I would caution you to…to simply be wary. You see, even your form of neutrality is a side. And when all those present skew one way, neutrality of your sort appears to be something else. This meeting was more than to measure the reactions of each ruler to Flos of Reim’s demands.”

Nsiia’s gaze sharpened as she looked at Femithain. The other monarchs were watching him warily as well, but the Crafter-Magus was unreadable.

“I see. Thank you for the warning, Femithain. Perhaps…”

He held up a finger.

“Let us leave it at that.”

“Mm. Then I will take my leave.”

Femithain bowed his head. Nsiia nodded curtly and turned to Orjin a final time.

“Was this an extraordinary day for Pomle, Strongest? Or was that battle one of many?”

Orjin thought about the question and then shook his head.

“Today was another day, Empress of Beasts. Perhaps I will remember it as extraordinary. But I think it meant more to those who came here than to Pomle itself. I thank you for your gift. Should you return, Pomle will be open to you.”

The Empress of Beasts smiled sadly and nodded.

“True words. And true neutrality. Such is Pomle, I see. If we meet again, Strongest of Pomle, I would like to speak longer. You were the most enjoyable person to talk with here, however briefly. But I think I shall be quite busy.”

She turned and raised a hand. Her animals laughed and roared and trumpeted and screamed, and the Empress of Beasts departed. The other monarchs watched her go. They spoke for an hour after she left, in silence. Orjin watched them. Then they too went.

“Salii.”

The [Secretary] was counting the jewels Nsiia had presented them with when Orjin found her. She jumped and guiltily closed the coffer’s lid.

“Er, I was just—what?”

“Are you able to make sense of what passed here?”

Orjin sat with the Drake. She hesitated and bit her lip.

“I do have a letter. A second one, not from the King of Destruction.”

“You didn’t tell me you received one.”

“That’s because Pomle received no such letter. I…copied it. There were several being waved about, and their little magical silencing spells can’t stop a [Secretary]’s Skills. Not one of my level. Would you like to read it?”

“Yes.”

The Drake nervously handed Orjin a letter, an exact replica of the ones he’d seen in the other’s hands. He blinked at it.

“How? We don’t have paper.”

“I can copy any material I want. Once a day. I told you I leveled up fast here. Read it.”

The Drake urged Orjin. Slowly, he opened the letter, noting the seal.

It was a letter from the Emperor of Sands. An envelope that smelled of rich spices, oils, and was written on white paper and gilded with some red metal that shone in the light.

“I see.”

Orjin read for five minutes. He read the letter twice. Then he calmly ripped up the letter, but he didn’t throw it away. It would make good kindling for a fire. Salii winced, but said nothing. It was better that the letter be destroyed anyways, rather than anyone know it had been read. The Strongest of Pomle looked at his [Secretary].

“It explains what’s about to happen. Do you think the Empress of Tiqr knew?”

“I doubt she did. Unless…did Femithain warn her?”

“He did. But perhaps she knew regardless.”

“What does it mean for Pomle?”

Salii was nervous. Orjin stared at the watering hole, now occupied just by Pomle’s people, and at the warriors training as night fell.

“Nothing.”

“But—”

“It changes nothing for Pomle. Why would it?”

Salii didn’t answer. Orjin left her there. He walked away from the watering hole after filling a water skin and returned to his camp. There he practiced hitting a Grand Elephant for six hours, dodging around its huge body, trying to figure out ways of incapacitating it. And then he practiced his Skills. Restlessly, aware of his limitations. The Strongest of Pomle trained until his arms and legs hurt and he was too tired to keep moving.

Orjin of Pomle slept restlessly that night, although he had trained hard and thought even longer. He wasn’t sure exactly why, but he drifted off to sleep dreaming about the people he had seen and the nations they had come from. The rulers, all of whom commanded vast tracts of land that stretched farther than the eye could see and armies beyond counting. Yet up close, they were so small for how much power they commanded. Giants, wearing the skins of small folk. Orjin drifted off, imagining that.

The next day, the Illivere League, Savere, and the Kingdom of Nerrhavia’s Fallen along with six other nations to the south of Reim all declared war on Tiqr.





6.16


“You know, I could quit. Right now. I could quit my job, walk into grandmother’s office and tell her to go eat her tail and walk out. Just like that. I could quit and do something else for the rest of my life.”

Selys Shivertail looked around the Adventurer’s Guild. She glanced sideways at her coworker. Maviss, a Drake with pink and red scales, paused as she applied a little scale moisturizer to the scales around her eyes. She had a little makeup kit with her, with everything from paints to touch up off-color scales to moisturizing products and powders.

Sometimes, Selys envied Humans with their hair and innumerable ways to color lips and change eyelashes and other bodily features. Then again, Drakes could paint their scales. But Selys had given up the makeup game. Now, looking at her friend, she was tempted to get back into it. It was usually expensive. But…

“You could do that, Selys. But I think Guildmistress Tekshia would rip off your head. Or run you through with one of her spears first. I don’t think anyone’s ever quit to her face. Most just hand in a letter. She’s fired people before to their faces of course…think you’d survive because you’re her granddaughter?”

“No. She’d probably kick my tail out and refuse to let me quit. But I could. Not that I’m gonna.”

Selys slumped on the counter, playing out the conversation in her head. She winced as the path took a predictable turn. Her grandmother, the infamous Tekshia, was very hard to argue with because if she started losing, she resorted to violence. And it had to be said she was still stronger than Selys in her old age, which didn’t seem fair.

“I’m just saying, Maviss. I could quit.”

“But what would we do without you? You’re the only person who knows everything around here. Besides your grandmother of course. And if you think I’m going to work with her at the front desk—”

Maviss gestured around the Adventurer’s Guild. Selys looked around from her desk. It wasn’t too busy at the guild, hence their idle chatter. Sometimes, there was a huge line at the receptionists’ desks, which were placed around a central beam in the middle of the room.

Other times, it was peaceful, like now. The few adventurers in the back of the room, sitting at the tables and chatting, were taking a break from their jobs. The rest were out, either doing nearby requests around Liscor or exploring the dungeon. But carefully. The huge drama of the Raskghar attacks, the dungeon exploration, and so on was over. It was peaceful. And Selys was a bit bored.

“What would you even do with all your free time, Selys?”

“I don’t know. Go shopping. Party more often? Hang out with Erin and Mrsha?”

“Ooh. That little cutie? I haven’t seen her around.”

“Lyonette’s protective. But I could do that. Maybe visit Pallass? But I wouldn’t be working, you know? I wouldn’t have to deal with stinking adventurers or clean up blood or work late hours…”

“But you’ve done that all your life. You told me just last week you like bossing adventurers around and working here.”

“I said that?”

“Yup.”

Maviss delicately applied some scented oil to her scales. Selys leaned back and nearly fell over; her stool had no back. She caught herself on the desk and sighed. It was true. She really didn’t mind her job usually. Her coworker shot her a glance.

“Why are you saying this now? Because of all the money you have?”

“What? Who told you how much money I have? I mean, er, well, it’s just that I could.”

Selys scratched at her neck. Her tail curled up before she caught herself. Maviss rolled her eyes, and her tail waved back and forth a tad irritably.

“Come on, Selys. Everyone knows you’re loaded after inheriting your…I mean, General…you own the Heartflame Breastplate.”

“Yeah.”

For a second, both Drake’s faces fell. It was still hard to say it. Zel Shivertail, Selys’ uncle, was dead. And he’d left the armor he’d been wearing to her.

“…Okay, I do have more money. So yeah, I could quit.”

“How much?”

“I can’t say.”

“That much? I heard you paid for a night at the Tailless Thief with Warsh and the others last night.”

“Only because they didn’t have enough on them. And I had money, so…”

Selys rubbed her head as she remembered that night out. She regretted it, too. All she’d woken up with was a sense that she’d spent too much coin. But she couldn’t even tell how much she’d spent; the little trove of gold coins hadn’t noticeably decreased in any quantifiable sense of the word. Maviss gave her a sidelong glance.

“You know what I’d do?”

“What?”

“Quit my job, like you said. Take a trip to the Walled Cities. Spend like a month or two in each one, going to big parties, seeing all the sights…”

“That sounds like work.”

“You’re just saying that because you’ve never travelled, Selys.”

“I’m a Liscorian, born and bred.”

“How would you know? You’ve never been past the Blood Fields! Selys, there’s a door to Pallass in The Wandering Inn! And you know the innkeeper yourself! You could at least take a vacation.”

“Well…that might be nice. Maybe I’ll talk to Grandma about it. I could probably get her to agree if I bought her a present. Or offered to pay for her vacation.”

“Now there’s a good use of money. Bribing your grandma.”

Selys laughed. She shook her head. It really was something she had to think about sooner or later. At the very least, she had to find a place for all that gold. Or just get a bag of holding…Selys noticed Maviss was busy writing something down now.

“What’re you working on?”

“Oh, just filling out the details of that request the, uh, Horns of Hammerad accepted.”

“The Ashfire Bee one? Watch Captain Zevara put that up.”

“Mhm. And they decided to go for it today. Wonder what took them so long.”

Selys shrugged.

“Ashfire Bees are no joke, Maviss.”

“True. Darn. I’ve filled out the form, but…what’s the Ashfire Bee threat ranking? I think I need to add whether this was a natural-based threat for Liscor or a migrating one. Little help?”

“Ashfire Bees are ranked as a Silver-rank threat. Check your monster encyclopedia. Lower left desk.”

Selys pointed. Maviss ducked down and came up with a worn book. She flipped through it quickly.

“Thanks.”

“So did the Horns go to take on the bees alone? That’s dangerous, Maviss.”

“Nah, the…Human, half-Elf, and Dwarf team went with them. The…Silver Swords. And the Halfseekers. They were going to watch, I think. But really? Three teams? Two Gold-rank teams for an Ashfire Bee nest. Couldn’t they just send one [Mage]? They’re a Silver-rank threat, right?”

She looked up. Selys shook her head as she borrowed some of Maviss’ moisturizer.

“That’s deceptive. We rank threats based on how dangerous monsters or animals are. Ashfire Bees are dangerous, but they don’t actually attack many people. One might sting you if you step on it or agitate the bee, but that’s not a threat. But hives? Hives are dangerous. You can prepare, and there are ways for a Silver-rank team to wipe them out—if they prepare right. But if you’re suddenly attacked by a thousand Ashfire Bees?”

She raised her brows. Maviss shuddered.

“Point.”

She dipped her quill in ink and scribbled quietly for a second. Selys leaned over.

“Make a note of the Hive’s size, will you? We’ll add this to the monthly report to the other guilds. If there are other Ashfire Bee nests in the area, they should be careful. Although they are good for flowers.”

“Yes, boss.”

Silence took over for a moment. Maviss finished her work, stamped the signed document, and slipped it into a folder under the table. She leaned back in her chair, then looked over at Selys.

“So…how rich are you?”

“Mm. Not saying.”

“A hundred gold pieces? No, wait, four hundred? You didn’t sell the armor, but I saw Miss Ivirith wearing the armor. And Wall Lord Ilvriss.”

“Drop it, Maviss.”

“A thousand gold pieces, then. Two thousand? Four thousand?”

“Maviss…”

“Come on! I have to know! Six thousand. Eight? Ten—”

“If I had ten thousand gold pieces—”

“Aha! So it’s less. Okay, under ten thousand. Just wink if I’m getting close. Eight? Six? Four? Come on, Selys. Two? Selys? Selys…”



——



Outside of Liscor’s walls, a mile or two away from the city, was a cave. It was a noisy cave, especially in the spring. Ashfire Bees flew in and out, bearing huge loads of pollen and nectar, food for their massive home, a hive in the back of the cave. The oversized bees were terrifying and fascinating.

On one hand, they were generally peaceful. They made honey. On the other hand, they were the size of your hands and a single sting would be a world of hurt. And disturb their hive? There were hundreds of Ashfire Bees in the hive. Even someone in armor would die within seconds of incurring their wrath. Which was why the three groups of adventurers waiting outside weren’t sending a person into the cave.

“See, I can appreciate this. This is a solid use of necromancy. Baleros has no problems with undead. Well, less problems. Here we have a problem, and instead of sending the Selphid, we send a Bone Horror.”

Jelaqua Ivirith commented to Moore and Yvlon as they stood well behind the giant two-headed bear Bone Horror slowly lumbering towards the cave. It was a monstrosity of bone with a reinforced body and spiky protrusions that would allow it to gore anything it ran into or crushed. It was a monster worthy of a Silver-rank team, but it was on the side of the adventurers.

Pisces, standing next to Ceria and Falene, pointed, and the Bone Horror slowly entered the cave. The Ashfire Bees flying overhead buzzed down. A few landed on the Bone Horror, as if inspecting it. Then one tried to sting it.

“All going well so far. Can you see what it’s doing?”

Ceria watched as the Bone Horror entered the cave. Pisces nodded absently. Falene was wrinkling her nose as she watched the [Necromancer] at work. It was a surprise she’d come here with Pisces, but she’d insisted.

“I have some sensory perception, yes, Ceria. I’m moving it forwards slowly. The bees are, ah, beginning to try and dissuade my creation. But of course their stingers cannot harm it.”

“Just aim for the hive. Ceria and I will handle any stragglers after your Bone Horror has demolished the hive. Or if it somehow fails before destroying it. I intend to use [Frostdart Swarm]. What about you, Ceria?”

“Eh. [Ice Wall], probably. I’ll just freeze the bees solid. Seems like it’d work best. I don’t have that many spells against crowds anyways.”

Falene sniffed. It was such an imitation of Pisces that both he and Ceria turned to look at her.

“You should expand your repertoire, Ceria. A [Mage] should have magics for every occasion, even if you have a forte.”

“I’d like to do that, but we need to buy spellbooks first. The one I have is higher-level than I’m capable of at the moment. I’m learning spells—but slowly. Besides, I was kicked out of Wistram before I learned the good spells.”

“True. Which is why I suggest you stop referring to yourselves as Wistram graduates.”

Pisces turned his head to glare at Falene.

“We were accredited by Cognita herself, Miss Skystrall. Which I’m sure you’ve heard about if you’ve finally inquired into our pasts.”

“I only—”

“Hey! Are you arguing or killing bees? We’re not standing out here for fun! Well, I am. But Moore’s not!”

A shout interrupted the start of another fight. The three [Mages] turned. Jelaqua was waving at them. Ksmvr, standing next to her, waved too.

“Hello, Captain Ceria, Comrade Pisces! Is our help needed?”

Ksmvr’s gesture took in the small crowd standing with them. Three teams had gathered at the Ashfire Bee cave. Jelaqua, Moore, Yvlon, Ksmvr, Ylawes, and Dawil were all waiting. Seborn hadn’t come, mainly because it was fairly overkill. The other adventurers were standing in the mud. Ceria waved back.

“Sorry! The bear’s headed in! Give us a sec!”

She got a wave in reply. Jelaqua turned back to keep talking with Yvlon. Dawil, Ylawes, and Moore were still chatting. Ksmvr was still waving with one arm, poised to spring into action. Ceria turned back to Falene.

“Look, we were given the right to call ourselves graduates, Falene. I admit we’re not high-level enough, but—are you angry about our past?”

She looked at Falene, a bit apprehensively. The half-Elf [Battlemage] paused.

“I am not. I was not at Wistram, so I cannot comment about any…incidents that may have occurred. But you two are still too inexperienced to be called full Wistram graduates. Which is a pity, because if you were, you could easily be a Gold-rank team by now. As it is, you lack the variety and power to reach Gold-rank. For now. But it could happen.”

It was perhaps the nicest thing she’d said in a long time. Ceria and Pisces both looked at her in surprise.

“Really?”

“Don’t take it to heart. I was merely remarking to Moore that it was a shame. You see, a proper [Mage] has spells for every occasion, so even a lower-level [Mage] who knows more spells could in theory beat a more powerful [Mage]. But in your case, both of you have such limited spell selections…”

She sighed, eyes flicking between the two. Ceria wondered if this was still a compliment or if it had slipped into an insult. Pisces sniffed.

“I have a sufficient variety of spells given my [Mage] level, Miss Skystrall. However, my [Necromancer] spells are fairly extensive for my level. My Bone Horrors, for instance, are a strong accomplishment even for my level. Or would you call the ability to maintain two Bone Horrors at once a Silver-rank adventurer’s level? It is beginning to tear into the hive, by the way. The bees are quite agitated.”

It was true. The droning from the cave was getting a lot louder. Falene paused. She eyed the cave.

“I suppose it is more than most Silver-rank teams could commit to an engagement. But hubris is dangerous. There are some Silver-rank teams who are quite capable of taking down Bone Horrors with ease. And they are not Gold-rank teams for the same reason you are not yet; they lack experience or raw firepower or…”

“I get it. Thanks, Falene.”

Ceria sighed. Falene shot her a glance, and Ceria tried to give her a smile. She knew Falene cared, in her way. But it was hard to talk to her. She turned to Pisces. This conversation would be easier—if it had to happen—after they were done standing in the muck and having a nice drink at Erin’s inn. That was what Ceria and her team had been doing all the time of late. Drinking, eating, while the door slowly moved north to Invrisil. Did Ceria feel lazy for doing it? Yes. But she was enjoying herself. And besides, they were working. Even if this was just an easy—

“Uh oh.”

Pisces’ voice made Ceria look up. His eyes were suddenly locked on the cave. He licked his lips.

“Ah. Er—back up. Back—oh dear.”

“Pisces? Something wrong?”

The [Necromancer] didn’t respond at first. The buzzing inside the cave had reached a crescendo. Ceria exchanged a glance with Falene.

“Pisces?”

“The, uh—the Bone Horror began demolishing the hive. But—oh no. The bees are covering the Bone Horror.”

“So what? They can’t hurt it, right?”

“That was my assumption. And I thought the flames they emitted weren’t hot enough to—but it is very hot, and I think the bone is—the bone is cracking­—”

Ceria heard a snap at the same time Pisces yelled. She jumped. The cracking had come from the cave! Pisces stumbled back.

“Pisces?”

“They broke it! I just lost my connection! They burnt my Bone Horror to pieces! And they’re coming! Raise a barrier!”

He pointed towards the cave. Ceria blinked. She raised her hand and looked at Falene.

“[Ice Wall].”

“[Bone Wall]!”

“[Force Barrier]. It’s hardly an issue. They won’t be able to—”

The walls of bone and ice were rising out of the ground, sealing off the cave. They made it halfway up, Ceria’s ice spell racing up faster than Pisces’ bone magic, when there was a thrumming sound. And then a few hundred bees blasted out of the cave.

A flaming, flying fireball of insects smashed into the growing bone wall, blowing it to pieces. Ceria saw her ice wall melt in a second. The bees shot towards the entrance and stopped, ramming into something at the entrance. Falene’s [Force Wall] bulged but held. Falene staggered. And suddenly her expression had grown intense. Her eyes widened, and she raised her staff and planted it in the ground.

“Oh tree rot. My wall just—”

“Raise another! Now!”

Falene shouted at her. Behind her, the other adventurers looked around and saw the bugs swarming at the entrance. Ceria tried.

“Okay, it’s coming up! It should—grass shit! They just melted it!”

Her ice wall got hallway up before the heat melted straight through the wall. Ceria tried again, but her ice magic couldn’t even get close to the bees.

“Pisces? How’s that bone?”

“It’s cracking! They’re too hot! We underestimated them! Back up!”

He grabbed Falene, but the half-Elf shook him off. She had planted her staff in the ground.

“If I move, the [Force Barrier] will break. I’m—holding them—Ylawes, Dawil!”

“Here!”

The other adventurers raced up towards the cave. Ylawes stared at the bees, then at Ceria and Pisces.

“The Bone Horror—”

“They turned it to ash! They’re a lot hotter than I thought they were! We need to pull back!”

“You can’t outrun bees! Aw, hell! Moore! Cover me in vines! I’m going to get in there. You cover me while I knock as many down as I can. If I can get enough—”

“We’re with you.”

“Indeed. Allow us to be sacrificial decoys while the [Mages] retreat. Then we shall retreat, assuming we are alive.”

Yvlon lifted her sword. Ksmvr had already readied his Forceshield and shortsword. Ylawes looked at Jelaqua and held out a hand.

“No.”

“Ylawes—”

“I meant Ksmvr. Yv, put your helmet on. Shield your face. Borrow Ksmvr’s shield. Dawil?”

“Helmet on. Face covered. Just block the bees and our armor will hold. Got it?”

The [Warriors] nodded. They were squaring up, facing the cave. Jelaqua cursed as she lifted her flail.

“Moore! Thorns on all of us! Can you do a face covering? Ah, hells, hells—I’m just glad we have more bodies back at Erin’s inn! Falene, let us get close! Can you set up some spells? Ceria? Pisces? We could use a trap or spell!”

“I can’t do anything. I can only hold this barrier, and it’s draining my mana too quickly to—”

Falene was gasping. Ceria looked around, trying to figure out what she could do.

“I can throw some ice magic, but they’ll melt it! Hold on—”

“No time. I’ll hit them with a lightning spell as they come out, but I don’t know [Lightning Bolt]. Ceria, start running. I’ll pick up Falene and [Flash Step] after you. Ksmvr. Run! Moore as well!”

Pisces’ face was tense. Ksmvr looked around as he handed his shield to Yvlon.

“I believe it is time to run, friend Moore. We are useless and fragile. Friend Moore? Hello?”

“I can’t keep holding it—”

“Let it go in ten seconds! Get ready!”

Ylawes strode up towards the entrance. He’d raised his shield in front of his face. Dawil took his left side, Yvlon his right. Jelaqua was already waiting. The Selphid turned back to face the others.

“They’re going to come out in one mass. Cover your faces and maybe you won’t get stung too bad. But we have to be bait. Get in there, kill that queen. Got it?”

“I believe we might be in trouble.”

Ksmvr was tugging on Moore’s arm. Falene gasped.

“I can’t—”

“Run!”

Pisces grabbed Falene and lifted her up in both arms with a grunt. The willowy half-Elf yelped, and her spell went out. The bees buzzed forwards as Ceria, already running backwards and shouting for the others to follow, fired an [Ice Spike] at the fireball. She watched it melt as the Ashfire Bees blasted forwards—

“[Earthen Spire].”

A quiet voice interrupted the shouting. As Ceria ran past Moore, the half-Giant tapped his staff on the ground. A wall of stone shot up, a huge rocky stalactite four times as thick as Ceria or Pisces’ spells. It shot up like lightning. Ceria, looking back over her shoulders, saw the bees flashing towards the cave’s entrance for only a second before a crash of sound and spray of rocks made the adventurers near the cave flinch back.

Ceria ducked as some rocks blasted out, but they were only fragments. She saw a few bees buzzing around the entrance, heard a dull buzzing from within, and then there was silence. She stared at the cave. The entrance was completely closed off by…stone. Actual stone, not a temporary magical conjuration. The other adventurers looked around. Moore exhaled slowly. His plain walking staff raised, and he straightened his shoulders. He regarded his work, then looked around.

“I think most of them avoided that. But the cave’s sealed. I don’t believe Ashfire Bees can dig, and the spire is solid stone. Is everyone alright?”

The adventurers gaped at him. Falene, sweating heavily, kicked in Pisces’ arms. He dropped her. The half-Elf floated before she could land in the muck and righted herself. She walked over to Moore, reached out, and held out a hand. He bent down and offered her an arm. Falene leaned on it. She wiped some sweat from her elegant locks and then looked at Ceria and Pisces. She pointed at Moore.

“That would be the difference between a Gold-rank [Mage] and you two.”

Ceria stared at Moore and couldn’t find any reason to disagree.



——



“Okay group, what did we do wrong?”

The adventurers trooping back to Liscor on foot looked over. Jelaqua clapped her hands, smiling with her pale lips. It sounded lighthearted, but it was a serious question. Ceria hesitated. Ksmvr raised his hands, two of them at once.

“If I may, Captain Ivirith, I would venture to say that our teams took this assignment too lightly. We underestimated both the heat and offensive force of the Ashfire Bees, who were able to destroy Comrade Pisces’ Bone Horror with ease.”

“Ridiculous. I solidified the bone. That bear weighed over two hundred pounds without flesh! Even if it had been burnt in a bonfire, it wouldn’t have expired half as quickly—”

Ksmvr went on, ignoring Pisces for once.

“Moreover, Miss Skystrall’s spell, while effective, was flawed in that she was unable to use additional spells, which she no doubt possessed. And the Ashfire Bees were unable to be contained by either Comrade Pisces or Captain Ceria’s magic alone.”

Ceria winced. That was true. She’d been about as useful as a shroom back there. Her [Ice Wall] spell, which was so powerful usually, had been as effective as a sneeze at stopping the Ashfire Bees when they were on fire. Jelaqua nodded at Ksmvr, grinning.

“Sounds about right. But don’t be too hard on Ceria or Pisces, eh, Ksmvr? Us warriors couldn’t do much more than act as meat shields. If I had brought a few high-grade alchemy potions, we could have done something. But we should have had another fallback. Good job Moore was testing out his new spell, huh?”

“Indeed. His actions saved us much death and casualty.”

“Yeah. Good job, big guy!”

Jelaqua slapped Moore on the back. Ylawes nodded. Dawil nudged Moore’s thigh. Ceria and Pisces also voiced their agreement. Moore blushed.

“I was only relieved it worked.”

“Was that a new spell?”

Yvlon glanced up at Moore. The half-Giant nodded.

“I acquired it after the battle with the Redfang tribe. I’d leveled up from the dungeon, but this was the first spell I earned. And it is…rewarding.”

A small smile spread across his broad face. Falene, walking by him, nodded as proudly as if she were a doting mother. Ceria glanced at Pisces. His eyebrows were raised. They began to whisper to each other as Liscor’s gates came into view.

“Tree rot, I thought we were in trouble, Pisces.”

“I as well. That was a…commendably powerful spell.”

“No kidding? That was strong! Sealing caves aside, imagine being hit by that? He could wipe out our entire group in one shot! That’s either Tier 3 or Tier 4. Well, a fireball’s Tier 3—”

“But that rock stays in place. Definitely Tier 4. It’s earth manipulation. Quite powerful. You know, I had heard other [Mages] had different areas of strength, but I’d forgotten how useful earth magic is with its permanence. It shapes the earth, whereas [Ice Magic] is quicker, but less malleable, less durable—”

“And it melts. Yeah. We suck.”

“Indeed. Hello, Captain Ceria, Comrade Pisces. I am reflecting on my worthlessness as well. I am very depressed.”

Ksmvr popped up between Ceria and Pisces. They jumped. Yvlon walked forwards to join them, shaking her head.

“We made a bad call, Ksmvr. Don’t beat yourself up over it.”

“My remonstrations are purely mental agony, Yvlon.”

“Don’t do that either. We’re lucky we had the Silver Swords and Halfseekers to bail us out.”

“And don’t you forget it! Aw, don’t worry though. Live and learn! We got out of this alive! So I’ll forget that none of us thought to make a backup plan either! Selphid’s tits, I’m not taking a contract on Ashfire Bees again!”

Jelaqua laughed behind them. Dawil nodded.

“Stroke of fortune we were all here. We’ve gotten complacent after the dungeon. But we learned our lesson, eh? Speaking of which, Jelaqua.”

“Hm? What’s that, Dawil?”

“You said Selphid’s tits. That a common Balerosian expression?”

“Eh, pretty much. Why?”

“Well, I was wondering. Do Selphids have—”

Ylawes coughed. He nudged Dawil hard, his face red.

“Dawil. That’s not polite conversation.”

Jelaqua grinned.

“Hey, I don’t mind. And I could tell you the answer, but I could also show you. Anyone? Uh…anyone?”

The other adventurers laughed. Ceria shook off the moment of robes-soiling fear and filed the moment of trauma away for later reflection. She walked back into Liscor, listening to a convoluted description of Selphid anatomy until they got to the Adventurer’s Guild.

“Hey, Selys! We’re back!”

Jelaqua sang out as they pushed the door open. Selys was sitting at the desk, chatting with another Drake [Receptionist]. She looked up.

“Oh? You killed the Ashfire Bees, then?”

Jelaqua looked back at Ceria. The half-Elf sighed. She’d been the one to take the contract, so she had to explain.

“Sealed. Not destroyed. Uh, we’re giving credit to the Halfseekers. You see…”

She gave Selys a truncated explanation of what had happened with Jelaqua throwing in little asides. Selys blinked, but she nodded at the end of Ceria’s story.

“Sounds like you handled it. And sealed works as well as destroyed. The nest will starve itself out. I’ll see about putting out a warning for no one to try and unseal the cave—not that I’d know why. Some paint will do that. Let me just write that down…and your reward. To the Halfseekers, I guess.”

“Aw, we don’t need—”

“You sealed it, it’s yours.”

Ceria indicated Jelaqua should take the gold and silver coins. The Selphid demurred for another second, but then scooped up the coins.

“I guess we won’t argue over it. I sign for completion, right, Selys?”

“That’s right. Normally we can’t give you the money until we confirm the cave’s sealed, but a Gold-rank team is trusted. And…yes, that’s all. Thanks!”

“Ah, perks of the job. Well, shall we head back to the inn?”

Jelaqua grinned at the others. Ceria nodded. She looked around.

“Are the other teams in the dungeon?”

“The…Wings of Pallass are in. So are the Flamewardens. I haven’t seen Gemhammer, and the Pride of Kelia is hunting some Shield Spiders.”

“Got it. Well, we’ll head back to the inn. Everyone else coming? First round’s on me.”

Still a bit shamefaced, Ceria waved at the others. Jelaqua laughed.

“You mean, on us! Why not? We should relieve Griffon Hunt. They’re dragging that door along. Selys, will you join us?”

She looked at the Drake. Selys sighed.

“I’d love to. But I’m still working. Tell Erin I might stop by tonight.”

“If we see her. She’s usually at Pallass. She likes it there. Says it’s exciting.”

“She does?”

Selys rolled her eyes. The Drake sitting next to her jabbed her with a claw.

“Told you. You should go with sometimes, Selys! With your…four thousand gold pieces?”

“Maviss!”

Ceria left the guild as the two [Receptionists] began bickering again. She walked towards the door to The Wandering Inn, talking with the other adventurers, arguing with Falene over which spells she had to learn, cheering up Pisces over his lost bones and destroyed Bone Horror, and checking the sun high in the sky and wondering if it was too early to drink. It felt like another day of peace after the travails of the past.

And like all things, it couldn’t last.



——



The Wandering Inn was not a busy place anymore. It had been. Somehow, the inn, which had been rebuilt and operated only for a handful of months, had gone through a golden age, a dark age, and a Goblin age, not to mention the good old…ages, when a skeleton had been waiting the tables and Erin’s signature drink of choice was blue and slightly poisonous.

Well, those days were gone. All of them. And the days of Erin’s full inn with audiences watching the Players of Celum on stage were gone. As were the Goblins. Now all that remained were adventurers and a handful of Drakes, Gnolls, and Humans from Liscor and Celum who trickled in and out, sometimes only to order a hamburger, pizza, cake, or another one of the unique foods Erin had pioneered.

The good days might come again. Already, there were [Actors] on the stage at the end of the room. A group of Drakes and Gnolls were lined up and reading lines from Hamlet. Ceria didn’t give it a second look. She did focus on the young woman talking to a dark-skinned Stitch-Girl, though.

“Erin! I know you’re going to Pallass, but can I bother you for a second? I have this little problem, and I could use some help!”

“I’m on vacation!”

Erin was trying to get to the magical door that Ceria and the other adventurers had just come through. She was having trouble because Octavia was clinging to her waist. The [Alchemist] was speaking quickly and pointing at the adventurers.

“Look, I don’t want to bother you, but I talked with Krshia and, uh, she’s busy so I was hoping you could get some of your adventurer friends to lend me a hand! There’s a tiny issue I have with my shop. Some—some guards would be great!”

She caught sight of the teams at the same time as Erin. Octavia brightened up and spoke even faster.

“And look, we have three, no, four famous teams right here! If I had them—no, just one adventurer standing guard in my shop or—or helping me sort this business out, that would be great. Fantastic! And I’m sure we could work out a deal? For some free—I mean, a discount? A…sizable discount?”

“Hey, Erin. We’re back. Bees aren’t a problem anymore.”

Ceria waved at Erin and took a seat at one of the tables, not even commenting on the Octavia situation. The other adventurers looked equally unfazed. Erin pried Octavia off her.

“No, Octavia. If you’re having trouble, deal with it yourself. I’m on vacation. Or ask one of the teams, but I don’t think they’re gonna say yes.”

“But—oh, Ceria! Jelaqua! Uh…my best [Knight] customer! Can I—”

“No.”

“Nope.”

“I’m afraid I must decline.”

Ceria, Jelaqua, and Ylawes instantly replied. They might not know Octavia, but one look was all they needed. Like Erin, Ceria had the feeling Octavia had some scheme in mind—or she’d gotten herself into trouble. She didn’t want to be part of either scenario. She was slightly surprised Erin wasn’t interested, but the girl had a slightly wary look on her face as she shooed Octavia back towards the door. She was tired of the drama too, Ceria supposed.

“Out! No, no buts. If it’s life or death, you can ask for help. But it’s not. Is it?”

“Well, maybe—”

“Shoo.”

Erin closed the door in Octavia’s face after pushing her out. The [Alchemist] didn’t want to go, but she didn’t have a choice. Erin was pushing with more than just her hands. The door closed, Erin turned back to the others and gave them a smile.

“So? How was it? Did you freeze them all up? Or did Pisces’ Bone Horror smash them? I asked you to bring back as many as you could, didn’t I? Wait—did he use zombies? In that case, no bees makes more sense.”

Ceria shook her head, smiling ruefully.

“We nearly got into a lot of trouble. Those damn bees…if it hadn’t been for Moore, we might have been cooked.”

“Really?”

Erin sat down and listened to the story with wide eyes. Falene sighed as she accepted a cup of cold water from Ishkr.

“I would have used lightning spells. That seems to be the most effective weapon against Ashfire Bees. We simply underestimated how resistant they were to ice magic as well as fire.”

“Well, it’s sealed off now. And that was our only job, so we might head into Celum and see what they have for work. Liscor’s a bit crowded.”

Ceria cracked her fingers and sighed. Erin looked from her to the other Horns.

“Oh. You’re going back to work?”

“We’re ready for it. And Celum won’t have difficult jobs unless something out of the ordinary happens, Erin.”

Yvlon smiled, rubbing at one of her arms. Erin saw Ylawes glancing at them and wondered if they were bothering Yvlon. She claimed she couldn’t feel pain, but—actually, she hadn’t spoken about her arms of late, even to complain.

“What about you guys?”

Erin turned to the Silver Swords and the Halfseekers. Jelaqua shrugged.

“We just had breakfast, so I’m not in the mood for any food. Maybe a drink? What did we do yesterday? Just gambled, I guess. We could go for a walk, right, Moore? Where’s Seborn?”

“Here.”

Seborn spoke to Jelaqua’s left. She nearly jumped out of the table. So did Ceria—she hadn’t seen Seborn until he’d spoken.

“Dead gods, Seborn, don’t do that!”

“I’ve been drinking and watching the [Actors]. A walk or some dice would suit me, believe me.”

“I’ve got some Go boards and chess boards. The Antinium haven’t come by of late, so no one’s using them…I’d stay if anyone wanted to play.”

Erin smiled eagerly. Seborn looked up at her and then at Jelaqua.

“If you want to lose to Erin, be my guest. But I think I’ll walk.”

“Beat you black and blue, did she? I’ll walk. Ylawes?”

“Falene might play you, Erin. But I’m no player of, er, those sorts of games. I might talk with Griffon Hunt. They were telling me about fighting Griffins, which I’ve never done. Where are they at the moment? Through the doorway?”

Ylawes looked at the door. Erin nodded and went over to it to adjust the dial.

“Yup. They went through this morning, and they’re still there. You wanna go through?”

“Please.”

“Alright. Octavia’s in Celum, and the door—”

Erin adjusted the dial with the mana stones and smiled.

“Here we go. This is so convenient. Why didn’t I…? Okay. Hey, Halrac! Are you—huh?”

Erin pulled the door open. But a curious thing happened: the door didn’t reveal Griffon Hunt and their surroundings. It stayed empty, which meant Erin was just staring at the wall of her inn. She closed the door and frowned at it.

“Weird. I haven’t been to Pallass today and no one else—hold on a sec.”

She opened the door and closed it a few more times, but all it revealed was the dark wood wall. Erin blinked.

“Huh? Uh…Moore? Ceria? Pisces? Falene? I might need a bit of help here.”



——



A doorway and over a hundred miles away, perhaps even further, a team of adventurers walked down one of the main roads between cities. It was heading north and currently passing up a slight incline, a gradient of a very long and short hill. There were three of them. There should have been four. Four had come south, but now only three remained. Two were sitting on a wagon pulled by a pair of horses, the last was walking. Halrac was talking to Revi and Typhenous though, so he stayed close, eyes scanning the traffic coming down the hill and head turning in every direction as he talked.

“So the news is accurate?”

Typhenous, the old man sitting comfortably in the wagon on a cushion, looked mildly offended.

“You know me, Halrac. I have a network of sources which are very reliable. And I wouldn’t give Revi uncertain information.”

“Hm. It’s worth the coin, Revi?”

“I think so. Didn’t you hear what I just said? I just read the King of Destruction’s second proclamation before I heard about war being declared on Tiqr! That’s huge!”

Revi was sitting as well and scowling down at Halrac. The Stitch-Woman pulled at the threads on her hand irritably. The hand came off and turned to cloth; Revi fished out a needle and began to resew it back onto her arm in a way more to her liking. Typhenous coughed as he watched the process with mild fascination.

“Explain it to me again, dear Revi. These, er, nations historically had their issues with Tiqr. And yes, Tiqr was potentially an ally of the King of Destruction. But what’s stopping him from declaring war on all the nations involved?”

“Nerrhavia? Illivere? Savere? Are you serious, Typhenous? Those are all heavy hitters, and even if Reim goes up against them, Nerrhavia might actually win, King of Destruction or not! Moreover, they’re allied, you see? If it was Nerrhavia vs Flos, they’d be watching their backs because the other nations might take them apart. But this way, they could oppose Flos if he declared war. Which he can’t, because Tiqr’s not part of his domain.”

“I see, I see. And if they declared for him?”

Typhenous stroked his long beard rapidly as he thought out loud. Revi shrugged.

“What’s he going to do? He’ll be at war and the other nations could tear Tiqr apart before you could get an army there, even with movement Skills. It’s too far, and any force would be taken out. Nerrhavia’s got chariots and a massive army; they can intercept anything Flos might do. Sure, there’s Takhatres, but word is he’s across the desert. So…”

Halrac sighed. He glanced up at a passing bird overhead and stepped sideways as a rider came down the road. The rains had fallen this morning, and Halrac might have been splashed if he’d stayed in the same spot. The rider passed by, and Halrac returned to his spot. He spoke up to Revi as she flexed her reattached hand.

“Chandrarian politics. Until it affects Izril, I don’t care. The King of Destruction never made it past Zeres, anyways.”

The [Summoner] poked her head over the side of the wagon to show Halrac one of her fingers, proving her hands were in good working condition.

“Don’t underestimate him! I keep telling you, if he’d gone solely against Izril rather than splitting his forces between Baleros and Izril—”

“Yes, yes, Revi. I quite agree. His [Mage], Amerys, was able to lock down a Walled City practically by herself. But continental pride just goes so far. Besides, isn’t your home nation at odds with Flos?”

Typhenous soothed Revi. She huffed back into her seat.

“I’m just saying, Chandrar deserves respect. At least we got that when Flos was rampaging all over. These days, all I hear are sand jokes. Anyways, my home nation is part of the Empire of Sands now. I have no idea what’s happened back home, and honestly? I’m not going to find out. At least not until—”

There was a door lying in the bed of the wagon. It had a gem embedded in the top, and it had been lying without any complaint until now. Suddenly, it opened, and Revi jumped as another room appeared on the floor of the wagon.

“Aha! It worked! Hey, guys! Wanna snack?”

Griffon Hunt looked down at a smiling face. Erin Solstice waved up at them from the ground, an odd perspective that did weird things to the mind if you stared long enough. Halrac hopped onto the back of the wagon.

“We’re still moving, Erin.”

“I know…but you could take a break. Hey, is there a problem with the door on your end?”

“Nope. And I could use a snack, Halrac. Or trade out with one of the teams.”

Revi peered into the doorway. Halrac eyed Typhenous. The elderly [Mage] shrugged.

“We have been walking for a few hours. Or rather, you have. Let’s just pull us over to the side.”

“Fine.”

Halrac let Revi move the wagon off the road. There weren’t many people, but the few that were present were stunned to see Typhenous stand up and suddenly disappear. Revi was next. Halrac climbed up into the wagon when he heard a voice from the other side.

“Hold on. Something’s—”

Suddenly, the door went blank. Halrac stared at the bed of the wagon. In her inn, Erin stared at the door.

“Huh? It’s out of juice. What happened? I thought you guys charged it up!”

She turned to Ceria and Pisces, who’d done the job to make up for their earlier failure. Pisces frowned and peered at the door.

“We did. If not all the way, then adequately for any number of trips. Maybe…”

“Don’t talk, act. Typhenous, let’s fill this up properly.”

Revi scowled and put her hand on the door. So did Typhenous. The [Mage]’s brows shot up.

“The door’s drained.”

“What? But it was only you two who—”

The door came back to life, and an image of the road flickered into view again. Halrac was standing outside the door, scowling, his bow drawn, the arrow loose on the string. He glanced up sharply.

“Problem?”

“No, the door just ran out of mana. Don’t worry, Halrac.”

The [Scout] nodded and grunted.

“Thought something had happened. Can I come through?”

“Yup. Uh, is the wagon okay?”

“It should be fine for a few minutes. We can keep the door open?”

“Yeah. Just come through in case that happens again.”

Halrac did. When he did, the door suddenly went dark. Erin made a disgusted sound. But Typhenous, who was peering at the door, came to the same conclusion that Pisces did.

“Ah. I see. The door is simply too distant, Erin.”

“Precisely my thought. The door isn’t malfunctioning, Miss Solstice. It’s simply that we’ve finally reached a distance too great for casual travel.”

Typhenous straightened with a groan and massaged his back. Erin stared blankly at him, and then her eyes widened.

“You mean…”

Jelaqua came over and peered at the door as the image of the other side reappeared once more.

“We passed Celum a long while ago. So we must be…well, hells. If we’re two hundred miles away, doesn’t that mean each trip is like…one half of Invrisil?”

“Assuredly. Even if it’s only a third of the distance, that’s a considerable distance. And the mana drain must be exponentially increasing.”

Typhenous sighed as he rapped on the door with his staff. Pisces nodded. He sniffed.

“I suppose this will inhibit travel somewhat. We can recharge the door, but it is taxing.”

“Aw. I guess we’ll have to let only one team go through at a time. And only rotate you guys out once per day or something. That’s a pain.”

Erin peered at the door, looking miffed. She shook her head.

“I really need to see if this thing can be upgraded.”

“Unless you know an [Enchanter] on the level of Warmage Thresk…”

“Who? Anyways, let’s have a snack while you guys decide who’s going through. For like, a day, unless one of you lovely [Mages] wants to recharge the door? I’ll give you free drinks.”

Erin looked around hopefully, but she didn’t have any takers. Ceria felt tired even from the few spells she’d cast this morning after recharging the door once. The other [Mages] demurred as well. It was Halrac who stared at the door and the clear skies beyond and looked around slowly.

“Maybe it’s time to go.”

Erin blinked. She looked at Halrac. So did Revi and Typhenous. Revi raised her eyebrows.

“Go, go? I mean, if you want to, Halrac. But couldn’t we stay until Invrisil?”

“I heard one of our companions is working far west of there. We’re close enough; it would save us a lot of travel to split around now. And if we’re wasting mana—perhaps it’s time. We’ve saved a lot of effort in travelling this far. What do you think? Typhenous?”

“We have been sedentary. I dislike to say goodbye so abruptly, but you have a point. I wouldn’t be adverse to it.”

Typhenous stroked his beard. He looked at Revi, and she nodded. Halrac turned to Erin. She looked at him, then his teammates and laughed nervously.

“Aha. Ha. But you don’t mean that, right, Halrac? Right?”

“I do. I think it’s probably time. This is…as good an excuse as any.”

The [Scout] didn’t quite meet Erin’s eyes. But he was certain. Erin opened her mouth and closed it a few times.

“But—”

“That may be our cue as well.”

The voice came from behind them. Erin turned. Ylawes was on his feet. The [Knight] looked towards the door.

“We’re far enough north. We could begin looking for work at the first village we come across. And today’s job reminded me. We have been staying here a long time.”

“Without profit.”

Falene got up too. Dawil glanced at the two of them, then sighed and downed his mug. He got up.

“I suppose you’re right for once, lad. It has been fun, but if we’re all leaving, better to do it together.”

“Wait, wait. You’re not serious. Are you?”

Erin looked from Ylawes to Halrac. The [Scout] still had trouble meeting her eyes, but Ylawes came over. The [Knight] held out a hand as he removed his gauntlet.

“We’re truly grateful for your hospitality, Miss Erin. But my team and I came south to check on my sister. Since she no longer needs my help and she won’t come to our estates…I think this might be a proper opportunity to say goodbye as well.”

“But…now? The door’s just on the fritz. Don’t mind it.”

Erin kicked the door. She looked around. This was too sudden. And yet, it had been coming. And the third Gold-rank Captain who stood up confirmed it. Jelaqua had an odd smile on her face. Regretful, embarrassed. But she came to stand with Ylawes and Halrac.

“I guess we’ll do the same. Moore, Seborn? Guess we’ve got to pack. Toss everything in your bag of holding and get ready to go.”

Moore looked up. He was patting Mrsha’s head. Seborn stood up. Erin turned around.

“Wait, wait, wait. This is so fast!”

“But we have been thinking about it. We are going to Invrisil for a reason, Miss Solstice. But I think our paths will take us away from the City of Adventurers, at least for now.”

Typhenous spoke gently. Erin looked at Jelaqua.

“But you guys are taking the door, right? You don’t have to go. I mean, you’re not going. You can come back whenever! So it’s just…”

The Selphid waved her hand gently as she shook her head.

“Nah. Think about it. We’d have to charge up your door to let all three of us go back and forth, and we need to have a team watching that door, right? You wouldn’t be able to go to Pallass if we did that, anyways. So…we’ll head out. You might see us once or twice before we get to Invrisil, but I think it’s good to say goodbye. With the others. For solidarity.”

She couldn’t quite meet Erin’s eyes either. The [Innkeeper] looked around again. The Horns were staring at the other teams in surprise. But it was mild. In her heart, Ceria couldn’t be that shocked by the sudden decision. The Halfseekers, Griffon Hunt, the Silver Swords…they were adventurers. Come to that, it was strange for Ceria to have stayed so long in Liscor. She didn’t stand up, though. She couldn’t do that to Erin.

The young woman was laughing a bit. But it faded away as she looked around.

“You’re serious. But why not go tomorrow?”

“Better today. We’ll get our things.”

“Oh. Okay. Um…but…”

Erin blinked as Halrac reached out. He changed the mana stone on the door and walked through to Liscor. She stared at the Silver Swords as they went through.

“But—”

“Let’s get our stuff. We’re not gonna run off, but we have, uh, stuff to pack. Lots of little shiny rolling things. Boys?”

Jelaqua headed up the stairs. Erin looked up as Moore got up. He gently put Mrsha on the floor and walked up the stairs. She faintly heard his voice and Jelaqua’s as Mrsha ran up after him.

“Does it have to be so soon, Jelaqua?”

“Hey. Do I look like I’m smiling? It’s just that if they’re going—you want to say goodbye later? It’s already hard…”

Someone opened a door, and the voices vanished. Erin looked around. The Horns were sitting in place. Lyonette and Ishkr blinked at her. And Erin panicked.

“Hold on. Hold on, cake! Ishkr, do we have any cake? Anything?”

She ran into the kitchen. Lyonette followed her in as Erin tore it apart, looking for cake or the ingredients for it. But she didn’t have anything festive. She still couldn’t keep ice cream without it melting.

And—it felt like a moment before both teams were back. After all, they just had to pay and put everything they needed into a bag of holding. It took them minutes. The door opened, and Griffon Hunt and the Silver Swords walked back in. Jelaqua, Moore, and Seborn were already sitting in the common room.

“Okay, there’s no cake or ice cream. But if you just hold on, I can make one. Give me an hour and I can whip something up! Or I can get Lasica and Rufelt to help me—”

Erin came back out of the kitchen and looked from face to face. It was Jelaqua who cut her off gently. The Selphid gripped Erin’s shoulder with a pale hand and smiled at her.

“It’s fine, Erin. You’ve done so much already. We don’t need a party. Honestly, I’d feel bad if you gave us one. We normally don’t stay so long in one place.”

“But this is so sudden! This is a snap decision! You shouldn’t make those! And you’re springing it on me without giving me a day to process it! Can’t you wait an hour? Can’t you—”

The [Innkeeper]’s voice faltered and broke. She looked around.

“Do you have to go so quick?”

The inn fell silent. The [Actors] on stage realized there was a real drama going on behind them and turned. The other patrons turned to stare. Perhaps this was why they’d come to begin with. To see a moment. But this was no [Immortal Moment]. And it was going far too fast.

“Just wait a day? Please? We can have a party.”

Erin implored Jelaqua. The Selphid did hesitate. And she did smile. But she shook her head.

“I think we’ve been doing that. Wait an hour and it becomes a day. Wait one day and it becomes a week. We got treasure from the dungeon, Erin. We did it. But we’re tired. I’m not going back in that dungeon. So…it’s time to go.”

She looked around. Ylawes nodded. Halrac finally looked up. He met Erin’s eye.

“It is. And it’s easier this way. Which is why we’re going. It’s time to say our goodbyes.”

It did feel too soon. It did feel abrupt. But as all three teams looked at each other, they knew it was time. Jelaqua had spoken the truth. You could put off going again and again. But you’d never feel like it was the right time to go.

“Well—well, you have to wait one second! I’m not letting you go empty-handed!”

Erin looked around defiantly. She ran into the kitchen and rushed out. She shoved a small canteen into Halrac’s hands.

“Here. Faerie Flower drink. And for you guys, I’m making a lunch basket. At least for Moore! And—and Dawil can fill his water flask with that stupid lager and—”

“Erin.”

Ceria stopped her. The young woman looked up as Ceria grabbed her by the arm. Ceria wanted to tell Erin to stop overreacting. That it was just a goodbye. That they’d be back. But she couldn’t, because as she looked into Erin’s face, she saw the girl’s eyes were overflowing.

She was crying. And when the adventurers saw that, they felt…terrible. And they knew it was beyond time to go. Because she was an [Innkeeper]. And they were adventurers.

They could not stay forever.

There was no party. And it was a split decision. But there was a formality to it nonetheless. The teams went one at a time. The Silver Swords were first. Ylawes, wearing the silvery armor that still shone by virtue of polishing. Dawil stood next to him, taller than you’d think a Dwarf could be, a hand on his hammer. Was he blinking too fast? Falene was dry-eyed as she held her staff. But she bent her head and nodded to Erin.

“It was a pleasure.”

“You helped my sister and I in countless ways, Erin. I cannot thank you enough for your hospitality.”

The young woman sniffed and rubbed at her nose and eyes as she looked up at Ylawes.

“I thought you were a jerk! And I know you’re sort of a jerk, Falene. Dawil is cool.”

“Hah! Hear that?”

The Dwarf nudged his companion. Falene almost smiled as she looked down at Erin. And then Ylawes knelt. As a [Knight] might to a [Princess]. He held Erin’s hand for a second before he stood.

“We didn’t converse often, it’s true. And I think your…Hobgoblin friends affected how we interacted. I do wish we could have spoken longer, Miss Solstice. But it isn’t a farewell forever. The Silver Swords are always roaming. And if we ever pass by Invrisil or Liscor in the future…”

He drifted off. His eyes went back to Erin as he stepped back. Falene was next. She looked down awkwardly at Erin and sniffed.

“It was a pleasure. At times. Your inn is quite fascinating, Miss Solstice. Even if we haven’t spoken—”

“I didn’t mean you were a jerk, jerk.”

Erin snuffled. Falene tapped her cheek, and Erin’s running nose and tears dried for a second. The half-Elf looked at Erin, looking uncomfortable. Then she nodded to herself and adopted a lecturing, familiar tone. But a caring one.

“Be cautious of Wistram, Miss Solstice. I have no doubt they’ll be interested in that door of yours. As will others. I suggest you refuse all offers and invest in some form of security. And if you should need a proper [Enchanter], try Hedault in Invrisil when your door is active. Inform him that Falene of the Silver Swords recommends you and he might be more inclined to entertain your requests. As for the rest, I can only bid you good luck and farewell. I am sure we will meet again. For what is time to half-Elves?”

Erin snuffled. Falene yelped as an arm thrust her aside. Dawil took her place.

“You are terrible at goodbyes, Pointy. Which is my new name for you.”

He turned to Erin, who was laughing in between her tears. She looked at him.

“I met a Dwarf in Pallass! I was going to tell you all about him! His name is Pelt and—do you have to go? Can’t you talk sense into Ylawes and…everyone?”

The Dwarf smiled into his beard. He held Erin’s hand, patting it gently.

“I’d love to. But what do you do when they’re speaking it? As for Dwarves—I told you! We don’t all know each other. But I do know that one. Watch out for him, lass. He got kicked out of our people’s home for a big mistake. Not really his fault; he was only one of the smiths. There was this thing with the forge master, you see—but that’s his tale.”

He took a breath and shook his head.

“I’d stay if I could. You’re generous, the inn’s fun, and even if you don’t sell enough good alcohols, I like it here. We’ll be back. For what’s time to a Dwarf? A lot, that’s what! But I’ll be sure to make the boy and Pointy drop by.”

“Thanks.”

Erin gripped Dawil’s hand. He eyed the knife in the little sheath at her side.

“Nice work. You keep yourself safe now, you hear?”

He stepped back. Next came the Halfseekers. Jelaqua, wearing leather armor instead of an enchanted artifact, her skin pale and dead. But her eyes alive. Seborn, half-man, half crustacean, but more than the sum of his parts, nimble as a cat. Moore, stooping, eyes already filled with his own tears. Gentle and mighty.

Jelaqua wasn’t crying. She was hiccupping, though.

“I said I wouldn’t cry. Seborn, you go first. I can’t.”

She turned away. And Erin realized the body she wore wasn’t crying. But someone inside it was. Seborn went first.

“I think we haven’t spoken much either.”

“But you’re cool. Like sea-Batman.”

The Drowned Man smiled. His crab hand opened and closed softly.

“I have no idea what that means. But I seldom do with you. You’ve been kind, Erin Solstice. That’s a rarity for Drowned Folk. If we meet again, if you meet one of my kin, I hope you’ll treat them just as well. Thank you. That’s all I can say.”

He stepped back. Moore was next. A big tear fell from his eyes.

“This is always so hard. No—this is uniquely hard. Miss Erin, your inn was the most comfortable place I’ve stayed in years. And Mrsha, Lyonette…if I could stay, I would. But I buried my friend here. And my companions are going. We have to start again. I’m afraid…but I will remember your kindness.”

He bent, and Erin gave him a tight hug. Jelaqua was next. She was still hiccupping.

“This is…this is so embarrassing. Erin, I—you’re my favorite [Innkeeper]. I’d stay. I would. But I’ll get fat, and Moore will get way too attached, more than he is already. And where would we be? I…this is hard. But we have to go. But we will come back. Promise.”

She gripped Erin’s arms. Then she hugged Erin. The Halfseekers joined the Silver Swords. And then only Griffon Hunt was left. They walked forwards. Halrac, his dour expression for once struggling to hide something. Revi, tugging on her strings, looking embarrassed and sad. And Typhenous, looking…melancholy. Happy and old, as if he remembered his age suddenly. Halrac spoke abruptly.

“It was worth the trip. If Ulrien were here, he would have said so. I wish you could have talked longer with him, Erin. But it was worth it. Thank you.”

He turned away. Erin tackled him from behind. She hugged him as the [Scout] froze. She only let go once she was done. He was blushing as she turned.

“I’ll miss you!”

“And we’ll miss you. Despite everything. Somehow, this was fun.”

Revi held out her hand. Erin took it. The Stitch-Woman surprised Erin by hugging her.

“Who ever knew that a strange skeleton would lead us here? You stay safe. You’re insane and crazy, and I hope your inn does well. We’ll be back. And you just wait for us. We’ll be properly famous, then.”

She let go. Typhenous was last. He stroked his beard as he looked at Erin, at her inn.

“Ah, Miss Solstice. I don’t know what to make of you. I don’t know what to say of your inn. I owe you my apologies for my impositions. Thanks for all you’ve done. I still owe you a debt. And I will repay it someday. But for now, we must away. And so I can only leave you with this.”

He bent and gently hugged Erin. Then he stepped back.

There they were. Nine adventurers. Three teams. They looked at Erin, and she was overcome. So, to let her say something, and because they were left, all three teams said their farewells to the Horns of Hammerad.

Ceria, Pisces, Yvlon, and Ksmvr shook hands and exchanged hugs. Each of the adventurers had advice for them, each in their own way, stern and caring, abrupt and funny.

“Don’t be afraid to run away.”

“You’re not Gold-ranks yet. But you have potential. Keep practicing until you can properly call yourselves Wistram mages.”

“You did well.”

“Keep advancing. Your team has done well. Take it slowly.”

“Don’t let your Captain turn into someone like Pointy.”

“Best of luck.”

“Luck, young Pisces. Miss Yvlon. Ksmvr. Ceria.”

“Hey, you’ll make it! Just watch out when Ksmvr goes places or he’ll scare people. That goes for Pisces too.”

Ylawes paused as he gripped Yvlon’s hand gently. He looked at her arms and then into his sister’s eyes.

“You’ve found a good team, haven’t you, Yvlon?”

“I have.”

“Then I will see you later. Visit Father and Mother when you can. Your sister would like to see you. But if I see them first…I’ll tell them you’re well.”

He turned. And the door was waiting. The adventurers slowly walked towards it. Moore was slowest, Falene fastest. The half-Giant had to bend down.

“Mrsha. ”

He’d said goodbye with the others. But Mrsha didn’t want to let go. She clung to Moore’s leg, looking up at him pleadingly. The half-Giant looked so stricken, Lyonette had to help pry Mrsha off him. And then he had to say goodbye to her as the others gathered around the door. Moore bent down, and his face was completely wet. But he lifted something with one hand, concealing it as he spoke.

“Keep practicing. You’re quite surprising, little one. You’ll be better than I ever could be. But remember, you aren’t just a [Mage]. You’re something more.”

He offered her a flower, as white as Mrsha’s fur, with a tiny pink center. The Gnoll clutched it in her paws, her eyes leaking tears. Moore stood. And the adventurers stood in front of the door. They turned.

“I—I—I don’t know what to say! Someone say something good! What can I say?”

Erin wept as she looked from face to face. She raised a fist and shook it weakly.

“You—you’re all jerks. Because you’re too nice! You came in here, made friends with me, saved my life. How dare you? How dare you do all that and just go without me being able to say how much I’ll miss you? Why can’t you stay?”

And at least, that was a question they could answer. Ylawes stroked his chin. Falene sniffed and sighed. Dawil grinned. Jelaqua laughed and hiccupped. Moore bowed his head, smiling through his tears. Seborn laughed softly. Halrac blinked. Revi snorted and Typhenous stroked his beard. They answered as one.

“Because we’re adventurers.”

Then they turned and left. Erin called out to them. She didn’t know what she said. She shouted their names, she shouted goodbyes. She shouted insults and jokes and knew she couldn’t have stopped them.

They walked out the door, the [Mages] going last to charge it with magic. Falene was last to go, which was really a mistake because she marched through without a final backwards glance, having said her goodbyes.

Then they were gone. Erin burst into tears again. Mrsha howled, and there was sadness. But that was how it always was with goodbyes. The best ones hurt the most.



——



Nine adventurers appeared on a small road leading north. They walked up, out of a door parked against a stationary wagon. The horses and a few passersby got the fright of their lives, but the adventurers moved in silence. A few stayed on the wagon. One took the reins and steered the horses to the road. The rest walked. In silence, for quite a few minutes. In the end, perhaps predictably, Revi broke the silence.

“That was emotionally exhausting.”

The other adventurers glanced at her. Then they burst out laughing. And the silence, the reverie was broken. They laughed as if they’d heard a fantastic joke. Then they walked or rode on, leaving the inn behind them. Revi grumbled to herself as she sat next to Typhenous.

“Erin is the most involved [Innkeeper] I’ve ever met! I bet that’s her class. [Emotional Innkeeper] or something.”

“Yeah, well. We’ll be back. Besides, who starts crying over a single inn?”

Jelaqua shook her head as she walked with Ylawes and Halrac. The other two captains looked at her. The Selphid grinned.

Three teams went north. The Halfseekers. The Silver Swords. Griffon Hunt. Neither Halrac nor Ylawes said it out loud, but it did feel like an ending. Even more than leaving Erin’s inn, this was the last time they might meet in months or years. Perhaps forever. But they didn’t say it. Jelaqua looked from captain to captain, then she put her hands behind her head.

“Damn. It really feels like we’re really not going to see each other for a long time when we walk around together like this, huh? Sort of ominous.”

Halrac chuckled. He couldn’t help it. Ylawes gave him a sideways glance and then smiled. They walked in silence for a bit, and then Halrac pulled something out of his belt pouches. It was a bit of parchment, worn and folded. He began checking it with a quill as he walked. With the other hand, he was investigating the contents of his bag of holding. Jelaqua eyed him.

“What’re you doing, Halrac? Making sure you didn’t leave anything behind? Because I’m sure Erin will flip if you come back so soon.”

The [Scout] gave Jelaqua a long look. She just grinned at him.

“I’m checking our income. We’re finally making money. I’m just doing a tally to make sure I know how much we have. I did a count a few days back, but I feel like I missed something.”

“Oh. We should do that too. Uh—hey, Seborn! How much money do we have?”

The Drowned Man walking with Moore and patting the Half-Giant on the arm gave an eloquent shrug. Jelaqua sighed.

“Moore’s gonna cry about Mrsha for days. You were right, though, Halrac. Imagine waiting a day? Erin would get us in some epic party or have this big thing before we left…you bastard.”

The [Scout]’s lips twitched again at that. What was wrong with him today? He might have taken a sip of Erin’s last gift to him, that was what it was. He shook his head as he looked at the wagon.

“We’ll be back. A door in Invrisil means Erin’s inn will have access to both north and south.”

“Yeah, but not until she can upgrade the door itself or find a way to generate—how much did Moore say it was?—a shipload of mana.”

Ylawes chuckled this time. Jelaqua gave him a very pleased grin.

“So what’s happening with your groups? We’re on to new adventures. With the money we have, we need to rebuild our team. Maybe we’ll come back, but Pallass’ teams have that dungeon locked down. And frankly, it smelled like a huge trap to me.”

Halrac and Ylawes both nodded. The [Knight] frowned.

“I got that sense too while we were in the dungeon. Some of those traps were deadly. The horde monsters nearly took out Liscor. The Raskghar, on the other hand, were probably an unexpected threat from whomever built the dungeon. However, it was the inner city we never saw that perplexed me. I listened to that Minotaur, you know.”

“What, Calruz?”

Both Jelaqua and Halrac were surprised. The [Knight] nodded.

“Briefly. I visited his prison to question him. I wanted to see if he truly was the monster he seemed to be.”

Halrac’s grip tightened on his quill.

“And?”

“He was uncomfortably sane at times. Sane, and then—I think he truly did go mad. Or the dungeon had some hold on him. But he described the inner city to me. The…things in there. The deceased guardian. I’m not ashamed to say it made me uneasy. I can’t fathom why that city exists.”

Halrac paused in doing calculations to nod.

“I agree with you, Ylawes. The Minotaur’s description of the inner city makes me uneasy.”

“Why’s that, Halrac?”

Jelaqua gave the [Scout] a curious glance. They were both old adventurers, and Jelaqua was technically older than Halrac and more experienced, but he had seen more dungeons and was a [Scout]. The man paused before replying.

“Because a few hundred thousand Infested creatures—even if they’re as dangerous as Ghouls—isn’t a threat worthy of this place. Our team never met this…Facestealer, but the Flesh Worm boss called Skinner wasn’t worthy of this dungeon either. If Erin Solstice and some Antinium could do it in, even if it was her, it was too weak.”

Ylawes and Jelaqua nodded slowly. The Selphid snapped her fingers.

“True. Someone with the power to make a dungeon like that would have many boss-class monsters, not just three. And even those horde rooms felt basic.”

“So either there’s some big trap that we haven’t seen or those three boss monsters and this Mother of Graves are truly dangerous enough for the entire dungeon…”

Ylawes rubbed at his chin. Halrac nodded.

“Or it wasn’t meant to be a dungeon, but a hiding place. Or…someone raided most of it before we ever got there.”

“How do you figure? We made out pretty rich, didn’t w—”

Jelaqua caught herself as she gestured at Halrac’s bag of holding. Ylawes sighed, but he just shook his head. Halrac nodded as Jelaqua developed a cough.

“We did. But consider this: the first treasure hauls out of Chalence pulled nearly four million gold coin’s worth of looted treasure in the first year. It turned the team that first cleared the dungeon into Named Adventurers. Six teams of the adventurers retired on the loot, and eighteen became minor landed nobility from that alone.”

“…Damn.”

“But that was Chalence. A legendary dungeon.”

“So? This dungeon wasn’t as impressive, and perhaps it was a vengeance dungeon. But even so, there wasn’t nearly enough treasure. It’s very strange how little there was. And that inner city—it could be the lion’s share of treasure is in the center. In that hole Calruz found or it was never there to begin with. Either way, Jelaqua is right. It was dangerous. Let the other teams work on it carefully. I feel quitting was the best move.”

Silently, the other two captains nodded. They walked on. After a while, Halrac made a small noise. Jelaqua glanced up.

“Something wrong?”

The [Scout] was checking his list. He glanced up and looked around.

“No, nothing. I think we’re fine. I didn’t realize we had so…”

He trailed off as he glanced at Ylawes. The [Knight] looked stoically ahead. Halrac stowed his list and walked on. Fifteen minutes later, he calmly turned his head and spoke to Jelaqua.

“Is Typhenous still looking at me?”

The Selphid’s head nearly turned, and then she caught herself. She swatted at an imaginary fly and looked right.

“No.”

“Good.”

Ylawes glanced sideways at Halrac. The [Scout]’s face hadn’t changed. But the way he’d asked and said that…

“Is there an issue, Halrac?”

“Yes. The numbers don’t add up in my list. And I saw Typhenous glancing at me while I was doing my calculations.”

Both Jelaqua and Ylawes inhaled sharply, but they never broke their measured stride. Jelaqua cursed under her breath, keeping a smile on her face.

“Damn it all. If it’s not one thing…you want a hand?”

Ylawes looked sick, but before he could offer, Halrac shook his head.

“You’re misunderstanding the situation. Typhenous didn’t steal. The opposite, actually. I’m going to have a word with him.”

He turned and walked back towards the wagon. Jelaqua and Ylawes heard him call out. Typhenous got up and hopped off the wagon. They slowed until they were at a distance. Jelaqua whistled.

“Well, that’s a new one for me. What do you think happened?”

“I shouldn’t speculate.”

“Aw, spoilsport. Well, I’m gonna talk with my team. I heard you were going to go soonest, right? Don’t run off without letting us know!”

Ylawes nodded. Jelaqua jogged around the wagon to Seborn and Moore. The half-Giant had stopped crying, but he was still red-eyed. Jelaqua grabbed both, Seborn by the shoulders, Moore by the small of the back.

“Hey, you two! Ready to be independent adventurers living on the road?”

“Yes. And no.”

“We’re still going to Invrisil, aren’t we?”

“Yup, Seborn. But we’re free after that. Unless you have an idea? You were hinting about that before.”

She glanced at the Drowned Man. Seborn was silent for a while.

“I do have things to do.”

“Like what?”

“Secret. It’s personal. I’m not in trouble like Typhenous, if that’s what you’re asking.”

“But you don’t want to say.”

“Nope.”

“Come on, tell me. We’ve been journeying together for ages. Why keep anything from us?”

Jelaqua prodded Seborn. The Drowned Man gave her a reproving look.

“And if I don’t want to tell you? What will you do?”

Jelaqua shrugged.

“Threaten you until you stab me and run off to become the most famous Goblin Chieftain this side of the continent?”

Seborn chuckled. Moore didn’t. He looked distressed.

“That’s truly not funny, Jelaqua.”

“I thought it was.”

“Exactly. And you know I’m not gonna let this drop, Seborn. Lies and secrets tore our group apart once. It’s not happening again.”

The smile Jelaqua gave Seborn was friendly, but she tightened her grip on his arm. He looked at her and hesitated. But he still shook his head. Jelaqua sighed.

“Fine. You want to play coy? Then it’s time to go back to the old ways. If a member of our team has secrets, we settle it. Moore? You know what to do.”



——



Dawil and Falene joined Ylawes as he walked on the other side of the wagon. That left just Revi driving, much to her displeasure. The Dwarf and half-Elf looked quizzically at their leader.

“Something up with Typhenous, lad?”

“Perhaps. But it’s their dispute. Let’s leave them to it.”

Falene nodded to the right.

“I note another dispute on our right.”

Ylawes looked over and nearly tripped. The Halfseekers were busy as well. Moore was holding Seborn by the ankles and shaking him vigorously. Seborn was swearing loudly, cursing as vulgarly as any [Sailor] as he wriggled, but the half-Giant wouldn’t let go. Jelaqua danced around him, laughing.

“Tell us, Seborn! Don’t make me get a feather! You know Erin would give one to me—she’d probably help out! And then you have to deal with Moore’s tears and me bothering you!”

The Silver Swords watched as Seborn swore at Jelaqua in reply. Ylawes shook his head.

“That is one unique team. Brave and honorable, though. In their own way.”

Dawil nodded.

“Aye, it was a pleasure, wasn’t it? And poor Erin. The girl’s lost friends, and now we walked out on her.”

“It was inevitable. And this was better than a long ceremony.”

Falene sniffed. Dawil eyed her.

“You still tetchy, Pointy?”

She reached over and slapped him on the back of his helmet. After a second, Falene waved her stinging hand. Ylawes sighed.

“If it’s about the gold—”

“What else would I be angry about, Ylawes? I respect both teams. But the fact remains that they earned a small fortune and didn’t elect to share it with our team. Let your sister have her windfall, very well. But what of the other two teams? Is there no honor among adventurers?”

The half-Elf snapped at Ylawes. He blew out his cheeks tiredly.

“Falene, what would you have me do? March up to them and demand a share? That’s not honorable or fair. Or likely. We don’t even know how they got it.”

“The Goblins gave it to them.”

Falene and Ylawes looked down at Dawil. The two Gold-rank adventurers stared as he walked along. Dawil eventually noticed and glanced up.

“What?”

“How do you know that, Dawil? None of the others would give me a straight answer.”

“Nor I.”

“That’s because you asked them. I asked him. Numbtongue.”

“…That worked?”

The [Axe Champion] sighed gustily. He looked up at Ylawes and shook his head.

“Have you not noticed what those Goblins are like, lad? After all this time? Yes, it worked. I bought him two drinks—which really was me giving Erin money since he doesn’t pay for anything in her inn—and apologized for Falene after that mana stone thing. Talked a bit with him about mana stones and how Dwarves use them, you know, for runes? I didn’t even have to press him. I asked and he told me. They knew where the Raskghar’s treasure was hidden. Turns out it was in a separate room from the rest that the Cave Goblins all knew about. So they brought it out.”

“Just like that. And they gave it to the other teams? Not ours? Why?”

“Apparently, they thought it was fair. And they don’t like our team. Seems they were the Goblins in Esthelm we met.”

“The Goblins in—”

“Stop gawping. Or did you not recognize them? I recognized that archer. And you were suspicious.”

Ylawes had to admit that was true. He looked at the wagon and shook his head. Part of him wanted to sit down and—but it was far too late for that. He felt a pang in his chest.

“Still. I suppose that explains it. And Falene, if the Goblins gave it to them, that was their choice. So—”

“I’m not dropping it! You’re holding back because of your [Knight] class, but I demand a vote! Dawil! Are you with me or not?”

Falene growled at the Dwarf and Human. She stomped along, her ears twitching violently. It was the most worked up either had seen her. Ylawes blew out his cheeks exasperatedly. But Dawil took a level tone, which was surprising given how often he needled Falene. But his tone was serious.

“Falene. It’s fair. And before you turn on me, let me explain.”

He held up a hand as Falene whirled on him. Dawil waited until she was listening and then pointed at the teams. At Halrac and Typhenous, who’d rejoined Revi on the cart. At the Halfseekers, who’d given up on making Seborn talk.

“Yes, we fought as much as they did. Yes, we didn’t get any coin. But it is fair. It’s their reward for going in first. For being the ones who went in and died. All of them buried teammates here. Ulrien. Ceria’s team. Yvlon’s team. The other Silver-ranks. Even the Halfseekers buried their old companion, traitor though he was. You want a vote, Falene? I say drop it.”

The half-Elf turned to Dawil. He held her gaze, and Ylawes, watching them, saw a flash between them. Dwarf and half-Elf. For all they got on each other’s nerves, they shared a bond. That hint of timelessness. That age that sometimes left him feeling like a boy, as when they’d first met. At last, Falene’s shoulders sagged. Dawil smiled. He patted Falene on the arm and looked at Ylawes.

“So. Liscor was a bit of a gauntlet at times. Fun at others. But what do you say, lad? Another adventure?”

Ylawes smiled. He looked at the blue sky ahead of them. And he remembered the death and chaos and…pain that had haunted Liscor. Something, a knot in his chest, loosened. Underneath the clear sky and the sun, he held out a hand. Dawil placed his palm over it.

“Another adventure. It would be my honor, friends.”

Both looked at Falene. The half-Elf hesitated, but then she nodded regally. She laid her delicate palm over the two of theirs.

“Very well. I suppose someone has to be the adult here.”

Dawil laughed, and Ylawes had to smile. Falene gave them an arch look, but then relented and smiled as well. Ylawes looked around.

“There’s a village that way. I think we’ll pass through it. Make our goodbyes then.”

And so they did. There was no long farewell as there had been with Erin. No tears either. But all three teams exchanged handshakes, or a gentle hug between Moore and Falene, much to the half-Giant’s surprise.

“You were a stick in the mud. But a good one, and you were a sight during the Face-Eater Moth attack. It was fun adventuring with your team too. Good luck, you guys.”

Jelaqua squeezed Ylawes’ hand as she met his eyes and he looked into her dead ones. Ylawes wanted to tell Jelaqua she was the first Selphid he’d truly met and that he had more respect for her people after meeting her. But one look told him she knew that.

“An honor, Miss Ivirith.”

She grinned at him and turned to shake Dawil’s hand. Then Ylawes took Halrac’s hand. The [Scout] didn’t smile. But he nodded, one adventurer to another.

“Best of luck, Ylawes. If we meet again, let’s share a drink.”

That was a proper adventuring goodbye. No fancy oaths. Just a promise to drink together if they survived. And it was enough. Coming from Halrac, it meant a lot.

“Don’t be a stranger!”

Jelaqua called out as the Silver Swords stopped in the village the road was leading them past. Falene waved at Moore.

“Farewell.”

Moore’s eyes were a bit misty. But there weren’t any tears as he waved goodbye to Falene. The other two teams went onwards. But the Silver Swords walked into the village. And the villagers stopped to stare.

Of course they stared. One team of adventurers as peculiar as the Halfseekers was a sight to see, much less three Gold-rank teams at once. And here was a [Knight], standing in their village! Was he on a quest? On some dire errand? Ylawes walked into the square and raised his voice.

“Good people of Ambault. I am Ylawes of the Silver Swords. My team will be passing through this area today. If anyone has a request, a need, seek us out now or on the road.”

They stirred at that. The Silver Swords. Back around Liscor, Ylawes’ team was only a name. But further north, it was a story. One of the villagers hurried forwards.

“Sir. Are you the Ylawes who liberated the town of Ryhm from those Trolls two years back?”

“That was us, sir. Have you a problem?”

Ylawes shook the man’s hand firmly. The villager sucked in his breath.

“Not me. But my sister—she lives closer to the High Passes. South and west of here. Further along the mountain range than the entrance, so she thought she was safe. But after Lord Tyrion’s army passed through and those Goblins—there was trouble. Eater Goats. And then, following them, Gargoyles. Sir, she and her village haven’t enough gold to hire proper Silver-ranks for the job, much less Gold. A bounty’s been out for the past two weeks, but no one’s taken it. If you could think about—”

“Of course.”

The man blinked. Ylawes had replied with the speed of someone utterly set in his course—or someone not thinking at all. He stared up at Ylawes, but the [Knight]’s eyes were firm.

“If there are Gargoyles, we’ll take care of them. The Adventurer’s Guild has a bounty on their heads. Your sister doesn’t need to worry about the price. Let me know where her village is and we’ll head there directly. We may need to purchase horses.”

“I—I could lend you some. Or sell you them if need be. You could bring them to my sister’s—she lives near Orefell. Thank you, Sir Ylawes!”

The man grasped his hand. Ylawes shook it a second time.

“What’s your name, sir?”

“Ambriel, sir. Bless you. You just showed up. And my sister’s village is in dire need. They lost eight folks already, and the Gargoyles have eaten half a flock—”

A crowd was gathering. People were listening in, not even hiding the fact. Neither Ylawes nor Ambriel kept their voices down either. The [Knight] asked a few questions and turned.

“We will be there as soon as we can. Falene? Horses. Mister Ambriel will lend us some, but we need saddles. Dawil?”

“Potions. Aye, lad. I’m on it. Hey, is there a [Herbalist] around here? A [Healer] or [Alchemist]? Damn, we should have stocked up more on Octavia’s stuff. But I have three potions, and…”

The two adventurers hurried off. Ylawes turned. The [Knight] looked at Ambriel. The man was still blinking at him. It was a familiar sight to Ylawes.

“And you don’t need a fee besides the bounty the Adventurer’s Guild set? You’ll go straight off?”

He looked at Ylawes, as if he couldn’t believe it. The [Knight] smiled. He shook his head, amused.

“Of course. Where else would we be?”

There was something so pure, so childlike and honest about his expression that some of the villagers had to look away. Falene came back with the horses, and Dawil with some cheap potions a few minutes later. Ylawes mounted up and pointed.

“Silver Swords—forwards!”



——



The second parting was less dramatic. It came at a fork in the road. Halrac had seen the sign, so he asked Revi to stop the wagon. She hopped down, and the [Scout] pointed.

“We’ll go too. This road takes us west of Invrisil, which is where we’re headed to begin with. We might see each other again. If we do…”

He held out a hand awkwardly. Jelaqua took it.

“A drink. Don’t be strangers, you lot. It was a pleasure to work with each other, truly.”

“It was a pleasure, Moore.”

“I haven’t apologized for hitting you when we first met, have I?”

The half-Giant shook Typhenous’ hand. Seborn nodded to Revi.

“Best of journeys.”

“And to you. Uh—we don’t really know each other.”

“No.”

“But we are pals, aren’t we?”

Jelaqua laughed. Halrac smiled. Griffon Hunt watched as Seborn clambered up and began to drive the wagon away as Jelaqua and Moore walked together next to it. Then they turned and began heading west and north.

“Damn. Now I feel terrible saying that to Seborn. I liked him. I just…didn’t speak to him enough.”

Revi muttered at her hand. Typhenous smiled. He glanced twice at Halrac’s back before speaking softly to Revi.

“I’m sure he had nothing but goodwill, Revi. And, ah, we’ve had enough goodbyes.”

“True. I’m exhausted.”

Revi yawned and stretched. She lowered her arms and looked between Typhenous and Halrac. Neither man said anything. Revi scowled. Then she glanced over her shoulder, the way they’d come.

“Did you see the Silver Swords? Just walked into a village and asked if anyone needed help, like the old days. Didn’t ask about money—not that anyone in that village looked like they could pay. Think they’ll sort out those Gargoyles?”

“No doubt. Ylawes promised, and the Silver Swords don’t go back on their word.”

Halrac grunted. Revi eyed him.

“So how do they make ends meet? Taking a few lucrative jobs every now and then? They had good gear, but if they’re spending as much on potions as they make from killing monsters…”

“You’d be surprised how many old grandmothers will pull out a family heirloom or remember an old dungeon or buried treasure when a handsome [Knight] rides in and cuts off a monster’s head without asking for a reward. It’s a viable tactic.”

“So why don’t we do it?”

“Because not all grandmothers have artifacts under their beds, Revi.”

“Ah.”

The [Summoner] walked along in silence. Then she threw up her arms.

“Alright, spill it! What were you two talking about? And don’t lie or I’m summoning a Shield Spider and loosing it on both of you!”

She glared at Typhenous and Halrac. The old [Mage] looked down. Halrac turned his head. His glare was back in full force.

“Typhenous added gold to our bag of holding.”

“What?”

“He added nearly seven thousand gold pieces.”

“Seven tho—how?”

The [Scout] clenched one hand into a fist.

“He wouldn’t say. Typhenous?”

The old man looked up and met the [Scout]’s eyes. Typhenous shook his head slowly.

“Ah, Halrac. If you have to ask, you know. I have contacts. I have a past.”

“And you used those contacts and that past. If you did half the things I’m imagining, give me a reason I shouldn’t shoot you here and now.”

Revi paled. Halrac had a hand on his quiver. And she knew he could nock and loose and arrow faster than she or Typhenous could move. The [Mage] kept Halrac’s gaze.

“I told you. I did nothing to harm any of our team or our friends. And I will swear that on a truth spell.”

Halrac’s white-knuckled grip loosened only slightly.

“You will. And you will tell me everything you did, or I will kick you out of this team and more.”

“Of course. But I didn’t want to speak of it with Miss Falene eavesdropping. Wistram [Mages] have the habit. And some things aren’t…wise to speak of in the open.”

Both Halrac and Revi looked around. But there was no one to listen. Still, they understood the warning. Typhenous shook his head.

“You may not be pleased, Halrac. I will admit, at first my actions were simply…selfish. But later on, I did try and use them to help Miss Solstice. And I did this for the team. All the gold I was given is in our bag of holding. As it should be.”

Halrac’s grip was still tight on his bow. But he eventually nodded.

“There’s no help for it. Telling the others would have been a mistake. But mark me—we will have a discussion. Ulrien told you—”

“I know. But that is who I am, Halrac. And I have a greater debt to the team than anyone else. I was the one who brought us low.”

Typhenous leaned on his staff. His voice, confident before, became weaker. Pleading. Revi looked at him with concern. Halrac turned forwards again. His voice was cold.

“You’re a team member. The mistakes the team made aren’t any one person’s fault. Ulrien and I both approved.”

“And I cast the spell.”

Typhenous’ voice rasped painfully. There was nothing more to say after that. Revi walked between the two, silent. After a long time, perhaps thirty minutes as they passed through the outer part of a forest, walked along a river and past…well, a few homes, not even a village of scattered, isolated folk, Halrac spoke.

“We’re going to square some of those debts. We settled…our obligations outside of our team. But we didn’t have enough for the others.”

Neither Typhenous nor Revi spoke. The [Summoner] scuffed along the ground.

“That’s why we’re going this way, huh? Fine. How much are we giving each?”

“Eighteen thousand gold pieces.”

“Eighteen thousand? But they didn’t spend—”

“Eighteen thousand. Six thousand per teammate. It squares us for what they lost. The hit to their reputations. It’s not a debt. Ulrien would have called it a point of integrity.”

“Damn. And we just earned this much. We earned it and—”

Revi couldn’t help it. A few tears of frustration welled up in her eyes. Typhenous patted her gently on the back. And he looked more pained than before. Furiously, Revi dashed the tears aside.

“Fine. But if they want to come back, we’ll—they’ll—fine. But this is it, you hear? Once this is over, we’re done. We’re going to make Griffon Hunt as good as it used to be.”

“Agreed.”

Halrac and Typhenous both nodded. Revi calmed down. She walked with them, her team. So few from when she’d joined a few years back. But they were a team. Joined by tragedy and error. Held together by guilt and integrity.

“So we just go visit—who? Cassielle? Elm? Briganda?”

“Elm. He’s apparently hunting solo.”

“Fine. Fine. And then—”

Revi broke off. Someone had spotted them on the road. The narrower, winding trail they were following was passing near a cottage. And a woman and two children were hurrying out towards them. Halrac looked up.

“Excuse me! Sir—sir, are you a [Hunter], by chance?”

The woman called out anxiously. The children, a girl and a boy, hid behind her anxiously. And the woman was afraid too. You would be, of travellers on the road. Halrac stepped forwards, and the small family stopped a ways away from him.

“I’m a [Scout], Miss. An adventurer. We’re Griffon Hunt. A Gold-rank team.”

The woman looked visibly relieved to hear that. One of the children, the boy, poked his head around her to stare at the adventurers. Revi waved, and he disappeared. The little girl peeked out around the other side. She couldn’t be more than six.

“Can we help you?”

“I—I’m afraid we couldn’t afford it. I was hoping you were a [Hunter], sir. You see, my husband was struck by a Corusdeer. He’s healing, but his bones have yet to mend even with the potions. The [Healer] says he’ll be at least a week more in bed before he can walk, and we live off of hunting. Our winter stocks are nearly over, and if we could just get a buck or some birds…”

She looked helplessly at Halrac. The [Scout] glanced back at Revi. She was avoiding looking at the children as she muttered.

“We’re adventurers.”

She expected Typhenous to cut in, or Halrac, but the old man was subdued. And to her shock, Halrac nodded.

“We’re adventurers. Our fees aren’t cheap, Miss. If you want hunting, it will be expensive.”

The woman sagged. She opened her mouth, and Revi nearly popped her jaw, about to curse Halrac out. She thought he was the one who—but Halrac was quicker. He drew an arrow from the quiver and looked up. Before either Revi or the woman could blink, he notched the arrow and shot nearly straight up.

The children dove behind their mother. She looked up. And screamed as a hawk fell out of the skies, an arrow buried in its breast. Halrac calmly watched as it fell. The bird didn’t strike the ground, though. It stopped close to the ground. Revi looked over and saw Typhenous had pointed his staff at it. Halrac walked over. He grabbed the bird as it levitated up and walked over to the woman. He yanked the arrow out and showed it to her.

“These are expensive. Steel. I buy only the best. So here’s my price. Four copper coins per arrow if one breaks or fractures. I’ll hunt for two hours. Deal?”

The woman looked at him. She looked down at the hawk. Her eyes welled up with tears.

“Oh, thank you—”

Halrac backed up as she tried to thank him. He gave the two kids a piercing glance as the mother wept, and Revi saw the flicker of embarrassment, swiftly hidden. She covered a smile herself. When Halrac had brusquely walked off back towards the forest they’d passed, Revi walked after him.

Typhenous had stayed to check on the house and the injured husband and because his legs were hurting. Halrac walked along, quietly, eyes scanning the distance for anything larger than a squirrel. And when he saw it, he drew an arrow back and loosed it. Revi hummed until he turned to glare at her.

“What?”

“Softie.”

Halrac glared, but Revi just smiled. He turned his back on her and aimed and shot.

“What’d you hit?”

“Digger Badger. Good eating, but they smell.”

“I don’t suppose you told that woman you have [Reinforced Arrows], did you?”

The [Scout]’s shoulders tensed as if he might snap at Revi. But he just walked towards the indeed smelly badger and retrieved his arrow, checking it for cracks.

“Hunter and trapper families live hand-to-mouth. It’s hard after winter. The husband must have been desperate if he was hunting Corusdeer. They’re dangerous. If he pushes it or if the family has another accident—you need coin and food.”

“Or levels.”

“He might be young. She’s not old. Besides, high-levels are hard to get.”

“I’m not arguing. And I’m not telling you we should hurry up, see? But you seem to know a lot about this. Were your parents…?”

Halrac paused. He slung the badger up, and Revi saw him feed it into his bag of holding, head-first.

“No. But I knew enough families who were like that. I grew up close to here.”

“Really?”

Revi had never really asked about Halrac’s past before. She knew some of the basics, like his time as a [Soldier]. But Halrac hadn’t talked much, and their group had been professional, for all they were a good team. He nodded slowly.

“Ever heard of a village called Riverfarm?”

“Nope. That’s your home?”

Halrac shook his head.

“I’m from the village next to it. Windrest. But Riverfarm’s the only one people even remotely hear about. There used to be a Troll living around those parts. Anyways, that’s near enough to Invrisil. Near enough to where Elm’s working too. We might stop by.”

“Home and old friends. Sounds like fun.”

“I know it’s not paying work—”

“I’m not complaining. And believe me, I will when I’ve had enough. Let’s square it with Elm, like you said. But what’s after that, Halrac?”

The [Scout] paused. He looked around, arrow drawn. But he didn’t immediately set out for new quarry. He spoke softly.

“We already have something. I didn’t discuss it with Jelaqua. But she was there. And so were a lot of others. I don’t know about them, but what that Antinium said. Klbkch the Slayer. Do you remember?”

Revi had to think for only a second. Then her eyes widened.

“Christmas party. I thought it was only something that Drake was making up. Or Erin.”

“She doesn’t lie. And have you noticed? Odd things happen around her. Many, many…Typhenous told me he’s noticed something. Which is why I didn’t put an arrow in his belly. One of the reasons. So she’s probably wrong. Wyverns roost in the High Passes. Even fire-breathing variants. But have you ever known a Wyvern to abandon its prey?”

“No, I have not. And Erin’s not exactly fast at running. One of those or a Griffon would get her after twenty feet.”

“Exactly.”

“So…but could it be true?”

Revi looked at Halrac. The [Scout] closed his eyes. Then he opened them and whirled. The rabbit was quick, but the arrow quicker. He walked after it.

“First, we settle things up north. Then we investigate rumors of…Dragons. Carefully.”

Revi nodded. She followed Halrac as he retrieved his arrow. And her blood was humming. Debts and guilt. Clues and mysteries. But she felt better now, on the road. It was time to settle the past. As she heard Halrac walking softly through the forest, she saw his gaze and felt the same feeling.

Griffon Hunt was going back to work.



——



“[Flame Spray]! [Lightning Orb]! [Steel Arrows]! [Sticky Webs]! [Jet Spray]—”

The spells crackled from Falene’s staff, as fast as she could chant. The flames and orb of lightning burst across one Gargoyle’s face, forcing the huge creature made of living rock to rear back as the spells struck its sensitive eyes. Arrows bounced off another Gargoyle’s face, and webs held another. Falene’s jet of water came just in time; they blasted a group of stone shards one of the Gargoyles hurled at Dawil’s back. The Dwarf roared.

“Don’t bother with the Tier 2 spells, Pointy! Hit them with something big or get lost!”

He swung his hammer and intercepted a Gargoyle’s claw as it swung at his body. The creature screamed as Dawil’s swing crushed the shell of the Gargoyle’s body and orange-red blood spurted out. The Gargoyle recoiled, but another was coming at Dawil, spitting more shards. The Dwarf covered his face with one hand and felt the impacts strike his steel armor.

“Gah! Elder’s balls, that hurts!”

There were six Gargoyles, two aiming at him, one at Ylawes, and three heading towards Falene. The half-Elf was backing up, and she had a barrier deployed, but the Gargoyles were huge, as tall as small trees and as big as—Dawil was too busy hammering the Gargoyle’s knees to make a comparison. It was strong, but his armor was thick and he was even stronger. The trouble was, the Gargoyle was huge, and even if he broke its legs, it could still spit stones.

“Falene! They’re charging you!”

The Dwarf roared. Falene raised her staff, and a [Lightning Bolt] struck one Gargoyle in the chest and then the other. But the third rammed into her barrier, and the half-Elf rolled back as the [Force Wall] spell exploded. Dawil swore.

“Ylawes!”

The [Knight] was dueling his Gargoyle, swearing as he tried to shield his horse. He was dismounted—the first Gargoyle had knocked him from the saddle. They’d been far closer to Orefell than the adventurers had expected. They’d been ambushed by the damn things on the road. Even so, they could win if Falene—

The Gargoyle was charging her. Dawil swore. Heedless of the Gargoyle trying to batter him with his claws, he turned. His hand went to his side, to a little axe on his belt. He yanked it out. The Gargoyle’s back was open. Dawil lifted the small hatchet, felt it balance perfectly, and roared.

“[Champion’s Throw]!”

The axe flew. Falene, raising her staff dizzily, saw the Gargoyle scream and buckle. The axe spun through the skin on its back, through part of its spine, and stopped—halfway out of its chest. It toppled over as Dawil turned, roaring, and bashed another Gargoyle in the knee.

“Ylawes!”

The [Knight] was finally pushing back his Gargoyle. He let the horse behind him run and slashed at the Gargoyle’s arm, drawing blood with his enchanted sword. He struck his shield as the Gargoyle punched with all of its might and its fist rebounded off his gleaming shield.

“Silver Swords advance! [Challenge of the Knight]!”

Four of the Gargoyles focused on him. Dawil hammered on his until a trio of [Lightning Bolts] hit his Gargoyle in the same spot, one after another. The third blew the Gargoyle’s head off. He looked back. Falene was angry. And the Gargoyles, already bleeding and realizing that Ylawes had barely taken more than a few blows, began to flee.

“After them!”

Dawil roared, and Falene brought down two more, one with webs on the wings, the other with more lightning bolts. Dawil and Ylawes finished off the grounded one; the other two leapt away. They couldn’t really fly; they were far too heavy. But they could glide, and their wings gave them jumping power.

“Damn. I never thought they’d be hunting the roads. That was close.”

Panting, the Dwarf struck the third Gargoyle on the head, making sure its brains were well and truly mushed. Then he stumbled back to the Gargoyle he’d killed with the axe. Heedless of the gore, he bent down and retrieved the axe, taking care not to touch the edge, even with his metal-plated fingers.

“Falene, are you alright?”

“Fine, Ylawes. My spell took the blow; it was just the blowback that struck me. My head’s ringing, but I’m well.”

Ylawes nodded.

“We’ll have to track them down. I’m sorry I missed the ambush.”

Dawil straightened, wiping the axe on the grass.

“Not your fault, lad. They looked like stones to me too. Cunning bastards. At least we don’t have to look for them.”

He walked back to the other two. Falene cleared her throat.

“Dawil. Thank you for saving me with the axe.”

“No problem, Pointy.”

Her eye twitched, but she let it slide. Dawil was feeling a bit frantic himself after that engagement, so he took a steadying breath. As he surveyed the three downed Gargoyles, Falene indicated his axe. She knew he had it of course, but this was one of the first times he’d used it in combat.

“You never used that Skill. Not once in all the time we were fighting in the dungeon or battling the moths.”

She looked pointedly at the downed Gargoyle. Dawil shrugged.

“It’s my final resort, Pointy. I would have lost it in the dungeon or against so many moths. If they’d truly cornered us, maybe. But only then. Besides, I can’t lose this axe. It was a gift. And there’s no replacement for it.”

“It looks…impressive. May I see it?”

“No.”

“But—”

“You’ll cut your fingers off. Believe me.”

“Is it enchanted, Dawil?”

Ylawes had come back with one of the horses’ rein’s in his hand. Dawil shook his head. He showed them the axe, letting them note the delicate metalwork with pride, but he didn’t let them touch it. He meant what he said about the edge.

“Just metal, Ylawes. Falene. Just metal. But forged by a master.”

“By who? Someone like that Dwarf, Pelt? The one Erin mentioned to you?”

Dawil snorted.

“Hah. He’s not fit to polish the hammers of the smith that made this. And I’m not losing this, no matter what. I just wish I didn’t have this damn [Axe Champion] class. Why couldn’t it have been a hammer throwing competition?”

He sighed and indicated the warhammer that was his weapon of choice. Ylawes nodded.

“I always thought it was odd. Still, you saved Falene with that. Thank you.”

“Just lucky I was here. Dead gods, but that’s twice now we’ve come close to death today. Ashfire Bees and Gargoyles. We can’t underestimate our enemies so much.”

Falene and Ylawes nodded. The half-Elf eyed one of the dead Gargoyles with distaste.

“True. However, it proves a point again. The Horns could not have taken on the Gargoyles if ambushed. Perhaps if they prepared…but six is a considerable threat.”

Dawil nodded. He imagined a new Gold-rank team might well have lost some people—or been wiped out depending on their composition. He grunted as he imagined how the Horns would have fared.

“They’re young. The Horns. But they can grow into their abilities. That Pisces brat is already fairly good. And if your sister gets some powerful Skills, Ylawes…remember what it was like, being on the cusp of Gold-rank?”

Ylawes nodded.

“Is that why you were talking with Ceria and Pisces, Falene? You think they can make the transition?”

The half-Elf sighed.

“If they were properly Wistram trained—”

It was actually Ylawes who sighed.

“Oh, dead gods, Falene. Don’t go on about it again. Yes, they’re not fully-certified. So what? What did they do that was so heinous? Pisces is a [Necromancer], but he’s not nearly as…foul as the two I’ve met.”

Falene shook her head.

“I never asked. I can be discreet, Ylawes. I just thought it was a shame. If they had completed their training, they would already be Gold-rank. If they both left in their third-year, they must have been very gifted. But I don’t know why. My…contacts in Wistram refused to say unless I did them some favors, including naming exactly where Pisces was at this moment.”

Ylawes and Dawil looked up. They were busy cutting off the heads of the Gargoyles to turn in. Dawil grunted.

“So what do you know?”

“Ceria Springwalker. Pisces, no last name given. Both students expelled in their third year. At the same time, several of the senior [Mages] in Wistram challenged the higher levels of the academy and…failed. As for the reason Pisces and Ceria left, I understand there was an incident that involved the deaths of more [Mages] and students, but not what.”

Falene pursed her lips. Ylawes frowned, but neither he nor Dawil could think of anything more to ask. Eventually, Falene pointed at Dawil’s axe.

“Where did you get that? You told me you won your class in a drunken competition, but you neglected to mention the significance of the axe.”

Dawil paused in stuffing the last Gargoyle head into his bag of holding. He looked from Ylawes to Falene. And a small smile passed his lips. He straightened as Ylawes led the skittish horses back to him. The [Knight] indicated the clear trail the Gargoyles had left. Dawil mounted up and spoke conversationally.

“Didn’t I tell you this story once? Ah, well, it’ll make a nice walking tale while we track down the rest of these Gargoyles. Let’s go. I’ll lead. Pointy, you stay back in case we get ambushed. Those damn things love to spit rock shards. Now, you remember me speaking of home? Well, there was this competition, see. Dwarves love competitions. Only, this one was special because of the prize. This axe. I don’t know how it got involved, but someone mentioned that this hatchet had been specially forged as a prize, and every Dwarf in the entire damn city wanted to win it.”

The other two adventurers gently kicked their horses into motion. They followed Dawil as he led them after the Gargoyles. There would be another fight soon. But the Dwarf spoke conversationally, calming their nerves, keeping them steady. Falene peered at Dawil.

“Your entire city? Isn’t that almost the entire population of Dwarves in Terandria?”

“Aye. We have one settlement, although we’re spread out. But yes, you could say at least half the Dwarven race was competing.”

“And you won it.”

“You see this axe? Want me to shove it up your nose for a better look?”

“You won that competition.”

“It’s a grand story! Let me finish it before you ask! And yes, I thought I had no chance as well. Which is why me and some of my mates joined the competition sloshed as it were. I’d drunk…eh, well, I don’t know how much. But somehow, I kept winning. Even too unsteady to walk a straight line, I hit every target straight on. Even when I was up against Dwarves with [Unerring Throw] and we were doing trick shots and curved throws, it was like my arm was magic. I hit targets blindfolded. I hit them when I couldn’t even see them! There was this target that was over a hundred feet away, and I was sure I couldn’t even throw an axe that far. But—and you’ll never believe this…”

Dawil kept one eye on his companion’s faces, the other ahead of him, watching for odd boulders. Soon there would be Gargoyles, and then they’d have to bring them to the village. If they were lucky, they’d get something out of it. If not? Well, they’d get some money for the heads, and they could check in at every village and town they passed towards the next Adventurer’s Guild. There was always someone in need of help. And wasn’t it worth helping folk if you could? A simple logic for a simple Dwarf. And a simpler half-Elf and Human.

Dawil smiled, and the Silver Swords rode off. On another adventure.



——



“And like that, we’re alone.”

Jelaqua looked back wistfully the way they’d come. Moments ago, they’d been walking with Griffon Hunt and the Silver Swords, or so it had seemed. This morning, she’d woken up in Erin’s inn. In Liscor. And now they were so far north and they wouldn’t go back to The Wandering Inn. At least, not for a while. And even when they did open the door, it would just be to say goodbye.

“We could visit tonight. To say hello.”

“No.”

Seborn had been ready for Moore’s suggestion, and he shot it down at once. The half-Giant looked hurt. Jelaqua sighed, but sympathetically.

“We said goodbye so we could make a clean break, Moore. Either we stopped and did some weird stuff where two of us had to guard the door at night while the other one stayed at the inn—or we say goodbye now. You can’t go back, even if Mrsha misses you. I miss her. And Erin. And those nice beds!”

“Erin cooked food enough for me. Proper food. And she gave me a proper bed, even though she had to bully that [Carpenter] in Celum to do it.”

Moore looked wistfully at the wagon. Jelaqua sighed.

“She’s spoiled us. The next [Innkeeper] we meet is going to be unpleasant. Sideways looks, questions about rotting…”

“Overcharging us.”

“Sleeping in the stables. Tip offs to the local watch…”

The Halfseekers sighed. They looked at the door in silence. Jelaqua shook her head.

“We know good sorts in Invrisil. And there’s that great [Innkeeper] up north. You know? Hey, I wonder if we can introduce Erin to her someday. You know? She’s over Level 50 and Erin’s…what?”

“At least Level 30.”

“What? No. You think so?”

“She has a preservation Skill, Jelaqua. And the mana in her inn can fuel the magic door. That’s more mana than I have. She has to be Level 30. At least.”

Jelaqua whistled.

“Well then, we met a good person to watch, boys. And we will see her again. Soon, she’ll have a door to Invrisil, and if she ever manages to improve it…sky’s the limit. But for today, I’m afraid we’re sleeping on the ground or in a barn unless we find a nice town with a friendly [Innkeeper].”

“I hate the spring. Too many bugs like my skin.”

“They like seafood, Seborn. Stop complaining. Moore’s way bigger than you are.”

“I don’t like the bugs either. You don’t feel the bites, Jelaqua.”

The two gave Jelaqua a reproachful look. She scowled at them.

“Hey! You think I have it easy? Try fighting off ticks, worms, and everything else that thinks I’m food! Little bastards think they can get this body? It’s claimed!”

She slapped her chest. The Halfseekers followed the wagon in silence for a bit, Seborn driving it down the road lit by a sinking sun. At last, Moore spoke up.

“Sometimes I don’t know why we don’t retire. Or I do, at any rate. I could live for…years off of what we earned. If I took a few minor jobs now and then. Jelaqua, Seborn, you might even retire.”

“Yeah, but I don’t want to. And this is enough for us to live modestly, Moore, but it won’t pay for more than a few artifacts. I don’t want to quit. Not now. Not when we’ve finally settled things with Garen.”

“Exactly. And I have things to do.”

“Which would be…?”

The [Rogue] didn’t reply. Jelaqua sighed.

“Well, if you promise you won’t split right away, we can upgrade our gear and maybe see about finding some new teammates. There must be someone willing to work with us. Even if they’re only Silver-rank. We can carry them until they’re higher-level. Unless you’re serious about retiring, Moore?”

She glanced up anxiously at the half-Giant. He shook his head immediately.

“I’d be willing to do that. I’m not retiring right away. I just hate…”

He waved his hand, indicating bugs in general. Jelaqua nodded.

“We’ll see if they have some [Healers] with bug repelling incense or potions or something in the next village. Looks like there’s one up ahead. See it?”

The other two nodded. They quickened their pace to beat the night. Jelaqua sighed. She did want to keep going. But sometimes it did seem like the road ahead was long.

“We spent a long time chasing Garen’s shadow. A long time, lads. What will we do now? Find work? Gain money?”

“Rebuild. You said it yourself.”

Seborn looked over. Jelaqua blinked at him. The Drowned Man gestured at her and Moore.

“We’ll find more teammates. Start from there. The Halfseekers were never at full strength. If we get three more teammates, or even two, we can take on proper requests. I won’t leave. Take me to First Landing and I can settle some things with my old crew. A matter of honor among…[Pirates].”

Jelaqua whistled. Moore blinked. Seborn rarely brought up his past.

“You have a death match or something? Because if you do, all you had to do was—”

“I don’t owe them. They owe me. And I’m going to let them know I want to collect.”

“How much are we talking here?”

“Wait and see. Happy?”

“Very.”

Jelaqua grinned to herself. Now there was a surprise from one of her teammates she could learn to like. The wagon trundled forwards, and the town came into view. It was one of those nothing-settlements, at least in Jelaqua’s eye. The road north even passed directly through the village; it had probably grown up as a way station over the years. There were people in the streets, and Jelaqua sighed as she noticed some heads turning in the distance.

“Alright, see any [Healer] signs? Inns?”

“No. And no.”

“Aw, come on. This is a village! It has to have…”

“See those burnt buildings?”

“…Ah. Well, that looks like trouble. Damn. [Bandits]? The Bloodfeast Raiders hit another place?”

“If they had, this village would be ash. Accident, [Bandits], it doesn’t matter. We’re not sleeping here. And they’re giving us the look.”

The Halfseekers fell silent. Seborn didn’t need to elaborate. Some of the villagers had spotted Moore at a distance and then Seborn and Jelaqua. She was hard to identify, but a Drowned Man and a half-Giant sent some of the villagers scuttling into their houses. Jelaqua raised her voice and shouted ahead before anyone could grab a weapon. Or form a mob.

“Hoi! We’re the Halfseekers! Gold-rank adventurers, passing through! Don’t mind us!”

That gave the villagers pause. They didn’t exactly come rushing out to welcome the trio, but they didn’t run either as the wagon trundled into the village outskirts. They knew the Halfseekers, just like people knew the Silver Swords. They stared. Gawked. Pointed. Whispered.

It wasn’t pleasant. Jelaqua saw Moore hunching his shoulders in a way he never had in Erin’s inn. She’d almost forgotten that, or the look on Seborn’s face.

“Steady, boys. Let’s just keep going. With luck, we can get to a town before night. If not—that camp’s looking better than ever.”

“Agreed. Moore can make us a shelter.”

The half-Giant nodded silently. The Halfseekers quickened their pace. They saw Humans watching them. Fear and disgust and—some children rushed around a house.

“Look! I said I saw them! I said it was a Giant and a—”

The boy excitedly leading them on froze when he saw the Halfseekers looking at him. The children fell silent, but then they began talking amongst themselves, pointing without trying to hide the fact. Jelaqua hoped one of them wouldn’t come up and ask a question. Or…do something else.

Contrary to popular belief, and in her experience, children weren’t innocent. They could be just as unpleasant as their parents, because they learned quickly by example. She turned her head, feeling sour. Maybe visiting Erin’s inn wouldn’t be so bad. But they’d said goodbye. Maybe retiring wasn’t such a stupid idea. Jelaqua had always thought she’d go back to Baleros if she retired, if the Wasting didn’t claim her. But now she imagined staying in Liscor. If—

The village had become a crowd. A gathering of faces. In their way, the Halfseekers were more popular than the Silver Swords could ever be. Jelaqua wasn’t worried—so long as the crowd didn’t turn into a mob. It could happen. Sometimes it only took a word. But then she saw something. A break in the uniform faces of a single species.

There they were. Perched by a tree, the older one sitting up in the branches, his tail curled around his seat. The other was standing by the tree, her fur ruffled, a farm worker’s trousers on her lower half, but her upper body free of clothing but for a breast band. Furry. Jelaqua nudged Seborn.

“Look. Two kids.”

A Gnoll and a Drake. There was nothing odd about that. Nothing odd, except that they were children, living in a Human town over a hundred miles north of Liscor. They stood together, of the village but apart, not with the other children though they were of age. Just a Gnoll and a Drake, perhaps thirteen and eleven. Seborn saw and nudged Moore. The half-Giant was less covert, but all three Halfseekers slowed their pace and stared at the two watchers.

“Fellow travellers? It’s rare, but [Merchants] do go north sometimes. Through the Blood Fields in the spring, though…”

“No way. Look at them. See how they’re dressed? They’re not travellers. Some Human must have adopted them.”

Yes. That was it. Jelaqua wasn’t much of a reader, much less a [Reader], but she could read the two like a book.

Look. See how they stand alone. How the Drake has a discolored patch of scales. A bruise from fighting? And look at the other children who stop to gawk at the Gold-rank team and point. Humans. Think on it.

“War orphans, perhaps.”

“Maybe. From one of the annual wars? Or one of those skirmishes? Maybe orphans from the Second Antinium War? The Drakes did send some forces north.”

“Could be any of those things. Maybe slavers? They’re outlawed in many Drake cities, but they still come through.”

Moore shook his head. He looked at the children sadly.

“There’s a story there.”

“There’s always a story. Keep walking, Moore.”

He did. But he, Jelaqua, and Seborn all felt it. A sense of…

Kinship. And they felt the eyes of the two on them. The two children stood together, outcasts. Even if they were loved. They were different. By fang and scale, by fur and tail. It wasn’t something the three Halfseekers needed to speak aloud. It was, after all, a common story. You could see it everywhere you went, no matter how old you grew, no matter which continent you visited. There were always those who were different.

That was their difference. Griffon Hunt, who left quietly, were adventurers to their core. They traded in favors and gold and they had their pride, but they weren’t like the Silver Swords. That group rushed from danger to danger, fighting for causes, without pay, without pause. They were champions, an old sort of adventurer the world still needed. But the Halfseekers? They were different.

“Hey, Moore. You know [Earthen Spire] now, right? Did you learn any other spells? Any fancy ones?”

“A few. But I’ll use a small spell if you don’t mind.”

“Fair enough. What about you, Seborn?”

“I can juggle. Good enough?”

“Maybe not. Village is nervous. Bared blades or even sheathed ones might spook them. Let Moore do his thing.”

The half-Giant nodded. He stopped walking for a second and then, gently, tapped the ground. He spoke no spell. But suddenly, where his staff had touched the dirt path, a flower bloomed.

There was a gasp from the villagers. Drawing back for a second. But the flower was simply beautiful. It was light blue, vibrant. It was also magical, transitory. It bloomed upwards for a second and then began to wilt almost at once. But as Moore began to walk again, another flower bloomed, and another. A trail followed his staff, and the people watched as the half-Giant continued onwards.

So did the children. It was just a tiny bit of magic. Just a spark. But it was enough. It put a name to them. It gave their words credence.

Halfseekers. And as Jelaqua, Seborn, and Moore passed by the tree, passed by the two children whose stories they didn’t know, they moved. Jelaqua was first. She thrust her hand high in the air, making a fist. Seborn did the same. Moore lifted his hand into the air while his other held the staff.

They did not stop. They did not pause to fight or ask what story the two children had. They had no time, and perhaps, no power.

They were just adventurers.

But the little Drake and Gnoll stared at them as they passed. And they looked up, at a half-Giant whose staff left a trail of swiftly blooming and wilting flowers in his wake. A grinning Selphid, who twirled her flail. At a Drowned Man, who walked with shadows even under the setting sun. And they saw the three adventurers looking back at them.

The other townsfolk stared, perplexed by the three Gold-rank adventurers’ raised hands. It was almost a silly sight. But that was because it was not for them. But the children saw. They saw the three pairs of eyes looking back at them. And their hearts lifted. Without having to say it, they understood what the Halfseekers wanted to say.

We see you. We know your story. We see you.

“Lads!”

At the edge of the village Jelaqua stopped. She bellowed up at Seborn, riding the wagon, at Moore, his staff training flowers. The villagers jumped. The sound cut through the air and almost silent gathering. It was loud, as loud as Jelaqua could shout. She raised her flail over her head and screamed.

“Who are we? What’s our name? What’s our purpose?”

“Halfseekers!”

Moore and Seborn both shouted the word. It was a small sound in the skies. But they shouted it a second time. Jelaqua shouted it with them. And then they kept walking. And Jelaqua knew two pairs of eyes were fixed on their backs, even as they walked into the night.

“That’s why I keep going.”

Neither Moore nor Seborn replied. But they were both smiling slightly. Jelaqua did remember. Liscor was wonderful. But it wasn’t where the Halfseeker’s true purpose lay.

It was in villages like this. Towns. Cities. Anywhere you wanted. That was where they were.

Outcasts. That fact wouldn’t change, no matter what you did. You could try, you could fight it, you could earn respect or be chased away. But it wouldn’t change who you were and who they were. And a child, a lonely soul could do little but exist with that knowledge in their chests.

But there they were. Adventurers. Names you heard stories about. Jelaqua Ivirith. Seborn Sailwinds. Moore of Raithland.

Heroes. Not to the many, but the few. To the two children who watched them pass through their town without a word. To the half-Elf living far from home, the Drowned Girl living in a port city, the Scorchling listening to stories around the hearth. They could not fight their battles. But they could exist and shout their names across the world.

Jelaqua leapt up onto the side of the wagon. She clung to it and pointed ahead, never once looking back. Moore, walking next to her, raised his staff, and Jelaqua raised her fist again. She laughed as she looked north, past a setting sun.

“Onwards. To another adventure. We’ll get to Invrisil and…damn, I forgot to grab all my bodies out of Erin’s inn. I guess when we reach Invrisil, we can pop in one last time. Eh, it feels weird after that goodbye, though.”

“Can you take the bodies with us?”

The Selphid shrugged.

“Bag of holding works. But they’ll rot in time. I’ll see about paying for accommodation. Or maybe she’ll let me keep them there? I can put them in a corner or something. Maybe put a few barrels in the way so no one gets spooked? They’re not going to reanimate, and that’s a lot of bodies.”

“Planning on selling them? Because I know a few crews who deal in fresh corpses.”

Jelaqua laughed harder as Moore looked askance at Seborn.

“No. But on the other hand—I know a [Captain] too. Plus, can you imagine how much a Raskghar corpse would sell for in Baleros? It doesn’t play in Liscor, but up north, why not? You don’t mind if I switch out my Human body and keep the Raskghar one for like, big fights, do you?”

“Honestly, Jelaqua. Please don’t joke about that. You know what the laws are like. Besides, I’m sure Miss Solstice would let you keep the bodies.”

“You think so? Ah, of course. She’s too nice like that. But I’ll take them. Get some storage worked out. Invrisil does have a spot I can use. Otherwise, Pisces will probably salvage them for parts.”

They looked ahead. At last, Moore sighed.

“It will be hard saying goodbye. When we reach the City of Adventurers, that is.”

Jelaqua reached out and patted his shoulder.

“Someday, we’ll visit again.”

Seborn nodded. And the three kept moving. The night didn’t seem so harsh, suddenly. The road didn’t feel as painful. They walked on as Moore hummed a tune and Jelaqua began to sing. The road called, and the adventurers strayed further from hearth and home. They’d left their homes long ago, and now they lived where profit and glory called. Onwards and away.

So the Halfseekers left. Seeing where the winds took them.



——



And in the Wandering Inn, Erin wiped her tears away.

“I’ll see them again. And when I do—my inn will be twice as awesome. Or I’ll come to them. But I will see them again.”

She vowed to the quiet room. At her table, Ceria looked up. She looked at her team. Yvlon was still staring at the door where her brother had gone. Ksmvr was eating bread. Pisces was mournfully sketching a new Bone Horror.

“When we meet them again, we’ll be Gold-rank.”

That was all she said. Her team nodded. Ceria got up. She walked over to the door to Celum and opened it.

“Ceria, buddy, a little word about—”

The half-Elf closed the door for a second. She looked at the others.

“Coming? I want to go to Celum’s Adventuring Guild.”

Her team stood up. They stepped into Celum, Pisces sniffing as he stared at a burned patch of wood near the entrance to Octavia’s shop. Yvlon fended the [Alchemist] off. It just wasn’t the time for her. Not at the moment.

The four walked down the street. People stared at Ksmvr. Some panicked. Ceria wondered if they’d get to the Adventurer’s Guild. Her stomach twisted as she remembered the last time she’d been there, with the first Horns of Hammerad. With Calruz. But she kept walking.

It was time to be an adventurer again.

They didn’t make it to the Adventurer’s Guild. Or rather, they made it, but something happened first. The Horns heard a shout and saw someone jogging down the street.

“Ceria! Is that Ceria? And Yvlon!”

A young woman raced down the street. She looked like an adventurer, or maybe one in training. A [Guardswoman] perhaps? But young. She was about Ryoka’s age. Maybe a year or two younger? She looked good. Fit. Her clothing was loose and almost ill-fitting, but it only added to her look. Because her body was toned. Muscular, but thin. A body to make Ryoka jealous. Even Yvlon looked mildly impressed.

“Ceria! Long time no see!”

The girl caught up to them. Ceria blinked.

“Excuse me. Do I know you?”

She thought she’d remember, but she knew a lot of adventurers in Celum and elsewhere. The girl gave her a delighted grin.

“It’s me! Don’t you remember? We talked the last time we were in Celum!”

“Who? Have we met?”

A laugh was her reply. The girl spread her arms.

“Come on—you remember me, don’t you? Ryoka and I hung out all the time! Well, when she wasn’t busy. I’m a City Runner! Fals, Ryoka and I were friends! Where is she, by the way? I heard she was up north, but—”

The half-Elf’s jaw dropped. Ceria stared at the girl. She tried to fit her mental image in her head. But it was impossible. The other girl had been pretty, but she had been…stockier. Sturdier. With arms and muscles that could lift a cow. A [Farmer]-girl turned City Runner.

“Garia?”

Garia grinned in delight. Yvlon looked astonished. Garia spread her arms, gesturing at her body with delight.

“Garia Strongheart! I’ve changed a bit, huh? I, uh, lost some weight. And I have a new class. I’m a [Martial Artist].”

Ceria opened her mouth. She stared at Garia. And then looked around. It was the old Celum. And she had come from the old inn, the old Octavia’s shop. But here it was. Just as the old faces were leaving. Something different.

Something new.





6.17 S


“Ashfire Bees, huh?”

Selys shook her head as she left the Adventurer’s Guild. She’d put in her time; it was past midday, which meant she’d been working for nine hours. That also meant she’d been at the Adventurer’s Guild since before dawn, but that was the life of a [Receptionist].

“Yeah. It was surprising. I didn’t know it would be so—tough—”

Maviss, walking out besides Selys, had to cover a huge yawn. She wasn’t done yet; it was just her halftime lunch break. She shook her head, her tail lazily trailing in the street behind her. That was Maviss for you; she’d spend all the time in the world working on her scales, but she’d drag her tail in mud if she was sleepy.

“Sorry. I didn’t know the Horns and the Silver Swords would struggle so much.”

“Swarm monsters surprise adventurers. Unless they’re prepared or well-rounded, they can get into lots of trouble. That’s why we’re told not to recommend nest assignments to teams with all-[Warrior] makeups. Not unless they have magical items or artifacts.”

“Mhm. I don’t ever recommend things to the teams that come in. I’m too tired.”

“Well, you’ve got four hours left. Don’t fall asleep just yet. I’m off.”

Selys was decidedly unsympathetic. Maviss shook her head, yawning again.

“How do you do it, Selys? I couldn’t do the overnight shift.”

“Years of practice. Besides, it’s Guild policy. A [Receptionist] has to be on call at all hours, even if the Guild has times when it’s closed.”

“I guess that makes sense. But we barely have enough to cover all the shifts! Ever since those two newbies quit…is Tekshia going to hire more?”

Selys grimaced. The tip of her tail slapped the cobblestones.

“She’s looking. But we need more room in our budget.”

“Whaaaat? But all that treasure from the dungeon—”

“We’re not operating under Human laws, Maviss. Liscor’s Adventurer’s Guild gets a budget. Our cut goes to Liscor’s treasury, not the Guild vaults. Which we don’t have. We get a safe, and the money from the Raskghar and other dungeon expeditions will probably go to fixing the gates, the walls, paying for soldiers who got hurt or died…”

“So you’re saying we won’t get replacements.”

“Let’s just say ours isn’t the most lucrative job around. Although it beats some. We’ll get more people in, and if we do, Grandma will give us vacations. Once they’re trained.”

“Wonderful.”

Swish, swish. Maviss’ tail was picking up dust. Selys glanced at it. As Erin had learned, you could tell how Drakes and Gnolls were feeling depending on how their tails moved. It did vary from person to person, but some signs were universal. And Maviss’ tail said she wasn’t really upset so much as very, very sleepy.

“Get some tea or you’ll fall asleep at the desk. You’re the only one working until Warsh comes in.”

“Yes, mom. Hey, do you want to have lunch together?”

“Sorry, I had a big snack an hour ago.”

“Oh. Then I’ll see you tomorrow. Hey, is it three thousand—”

“Bye, Maviss.”

Selys walked off. Maviss called something at her back, and Selys waved a hand. She wasn’t mad, really. But she knew that telling Maviss exactly how much money she had would be trouble. Not least because all of it was stored in the bottom of her dresser in her apartment. Any [Thief] would jump at the chance to rob Selys. Because Selys was rich.

A week ago, Jelaqua had walked into Selys’ small apartment and given her a share of the treasure she’d earned from the dungeon. It was the Drake’s cut of the profits for letting the Halfseekers use the Heartflame Breastplate. It wasn’t a third of the Halfseekers’ take like Selys had initially tossed out as an offer, but it was still a percentage. And that percentage had appeared in the form of enough gold to knock Selys out.

Literally. She’d woken up to Jelaqua pouring water on her face. Selys had gotten a cold from that, but the sight of a pile of glittering gold pieces had alleviated her suffering. Mostly. She’d turned into a Level 8 [Heiress] as well, but she hadn’t gained a Skill. Another mixed blessing.

As for how much money Selys had, well, the answer was that she had a good bit more than three thousand gold coins. Maybe as many as six thousand, and it was actually starting to worry her a bit. Her apartment floor might actually cave in from the weight. So Selys’ first job on the day off was to store her money.

The problem was that Selys didn’t know how much a bag of holding cost, she didn’t know how to carry that many coins with her without one, and she didn’t know how much money she had. She knew how much Jelaqua had given her, but some of Ilvriss’ money had joined the pile quite recently.

He’d rented the Heartflame Breastplate after the Halfseekers and before he’d left in secret to return to his home, he’d sent one of his aides to pay Selys the fee. Which was more gold than she’d earn in a year. But on top of the money Jelaqua had given her, it had seemed almost paltry, more money to join the pile. Selys had stared at it and tried counting. She’d made fifteen stacks before she just gave up.

That was the thing. Selys might have been a Drake, a member of a species descended from Dragons, but she’d realized that having a lot of gold was really like having a lot to eat. It was great if you were hungry, but once you were full, it just looked like…stuff. And now she was rich, money had lost its value for her.

“I’m no hoarder like Grandma can be. But I don’t know what to do with what I have. Look at that.”

Selys paused on her way down the street. The area around the Adventurer’s Guild catered to their kind, so there were [Shopkeepers] selling goods made by [Blacksmiths], [Alchemists], [Fletchers], [Carpenters], and more. Some shops were multi-purpose; others carried a specific set of items, like the shop she was walking past that had every kind of weapon on display. Selys saw iron mixed with steel weapons, all fairly sharp, as well as a small selection of potions in bottles. A Gnoll was browsing as the Drake [Shopkeeper] tried to close the sale.

“I could buy a dozen of that shop’s best steel weapons. Eight times. And I’d still have more money than Maviss ever had in her life.”

Selys shook her head. She walked by another shop, and her eye caught a gaudy protective charm. Something to deflect blows? It was probably only good for a hit or two from something small; deflection charms were usually weak, according to Tekshia. And the bad ones were poor at sensing what was an attack; you could deplete them by stepping too hard or jumping.

But she could buy it. She could buy a magical artifact with the gold she had. Most Silver-ranks wouldn’t have as much gold as Selys before they hit Gold-rank. With this, she could actually become an adventurer. And she had the Heartflame Breastplate—or rather, it was being stored in the Watch Barracks until Selys could find someone to rent it. She could practically become a Silver-rank adventurer if she outfitted herself. If she wanted to…

Selys had once wanted to be an adventurer. Before she’d learned how dangerous that was, and how unglamorous. Her grandmother had talked her out of it, really, by telling Selys stories of her past. And Selys had to admit, she wasn’t talented. Her uncle, the famous [General], had taught her a few claw-fighting tricks.

Her grandmother had taught her how to use a spear and a sword. Selys had learned, but she’d never grown adept at any of those fighting styles. She wasn’t talented, which Tekshia had said could be made up for, but it meant Selys was disadvantaged. That had been enough for the young Drake girl.

And the adult had seen war. Skinner’s attack just proved what Selys knew: it was not for her. So no adventuring. But what else was money good for? Fancy things like Maviss had said? Jewelry? Magical items? All of that appealed to Selys, but now that she had money, she didn’t have anything she wanted to spend it on that much. She’d rather have the gold than regret spending it.

“Oh no. I am hoarding.”

Selys groaned. That was one of the classic symptoms! Being a miserly Drake who couldn’t spend so much as a copper coin. She struck her head lightly with the heel of her palm, then heard someone shouting her name!

“Selys! Hey, Selys! Are you off work?”

The Drake looked around. She brightened up as she saw three of her friends, Mica, Warsh, and Lellia, coming towards her. Mica was a Gnoll [Clerk], Warsh was a Drake [Receptionist] working at the Adventurer’s Guild like her, and Lellia was a [Spinner] apprenticing in a [Tailor]’s shop. Selys hung out with them quite often, but she knew a good number of people her age in Liscor. Some, like Drassi, were old friends, or co-workers like Maviss. But this group Selys had known since she was running around the streets as a hatchling.

“Warsh, how are you doing? Hello, Mica, Lellia. You dyed your fur?”

She looked at Mica. The edges of the Gnoll’s dark fur around the side of her face, normally a dark brown, were blonde. The Gnoll preened and smiled as the three stopped in the street to chat.

“That’s right. I got the edges dyed yesterday. What do you think? They look good, yes?”

“Yeah. Very…attractive! I like the way it stands out. But won’t it get you in trouble with your boss? I mean, at the store?”

Selys eyed Mica. The Gnoll was a [Clerk], who, like a [Receptionist], [Waiter], and so on, could fill a lot of jobs. Mica was employed running the counter at a [Shopkeeper]’s store that dealt in produce, which was one of Liscor’s only exports.

The city mainly imported goods; it was subsidized in no small part by the army’s mercenary work, and the area had some natural resources, but nothing dramatic like Pallass’ ore mines or Oteslia’s huge agricultural industry. However, shops like the one Mica’s employer ran were important; they had preservation runes and could store food for a long time.

They were the closest things to the grocery stores Erin talked about. Some didn’t even bother with stores; they kept warehouses and let other [Shopkeepers] buy from them in bulk. That was how business was done in Liscor; artisans didn’t sell their goods personally like in Celum and northern cities. They went through [Shopkeepers], and thus they could rely on middlemen to handle the cutthroat business of business while doing their work.

“Oh, that old place? The owner pitched a fit, so I quit. I hated working there anyways. He was always telling me to sweep up after myself. As if I can help shedding! And I never got any fur in the food.”

Mica waved a paw in disgust. Selys nodded, but she wondered if that was a good move. [Clerks] weren’t exactly in high demand in Liscor. At least, at the level Mica was at—Level 14—they weren’t. She was a Level 6 [Washer] and a Level 3 [Sweeper] too, which didn’t exactly help out much.

“Well, if you’re happy, that’s fine. Hey, I’m off work. Maviss’ pretty tired, Warsh, so I wouldn’t be late, or she’ll rip off your tail. I was going shopping.”

“Hey, why don’t we come with you? I could buy some trinkets.”

Lellia eagerly offered, and Warsh and Mica nodded. Selys hesitated.

“Well, you probably won’t want to go where I’m going. I’m checking out the [Merchants]—the pricey ones, you know? So…”

The eyes of all three of her friends sharpened. There were [Traders] and [Merchants] in Liscor, but only a few dealt in expensive objects and demanded gold. Warsh looked at Mica and Lellia.

“Why don’t we come with anyways? I have a bit of gold.”

“Yeah!”

“If you want.”

Selys awkwardly motioned, and the other three fell into step with her. It wasn’t that Selys didn’t want to talk with them—it was just that it was going to be awkward buying a bag of holding with them in tow. And it was also strange that they were all here. Mica usually had her job, which made sense, but Warsh slept in until it was his shift on a working day. As for Lellia, she didn’t get out nearly as much as the other two.

“So, how have you all been? I mean, since the other day?”

They’d had a huge party at the Tailless Thief just the other day. Selys had spent far too much and woken up with a terrible hangover. Mica pointed at her fur.

“Besides this?”

“I just helped sew up a few dresses. You know.”

Lellia dismissively flicked her tail. Warsh, walking ahead of Selys, grinned.

“Is that fun? Nothing interesting happens anymore at work. Just those Gold-rank teams coming in and going out, always covered in mud. Except for the Wings of Pallass. Those are some sleek Drake ladies, and the Garuda is—”

He cut off as the other three all glared at him. Warsh coughed, blushing slightly.

“What about you, Selys?”

She waved the question off.

“Oh, nothing much.”

“Aw, come on. Nothing? What about your crazy Human friend?”

“Erin? I haven’t talked to her in a bit. She’s in Pallass.”

Lellia oohed appreciatively.

“Why didn’t you go with her?”

Selys made a face. That was what Maviss had said!

“I don’t want to. Her door can’t take many people and besides, what does Pallass have?”

“Um, everything? It’s a Walled City, Selys.”

“I guess. And Erin did invite me. But it was the way she said it! ‘Pallass has cooler things than Liscor, Selys. It’s way more exciting. Come on, you can meet so many cool people there!’ Can you believe that?”

Warsh looked at Mica. The Gnoll raised her brows.

“I can.”

“Totally.”

“What?”

Selys looked at her friends. Lellia laughed.

“You’re like my Dad, Selys. Liscor isn’t better than Pallass! If I could have gone, I would have.”

“What’s wrong with liking Liscor?”

Selys blushed a bit and grumbled as her friends laughed. First hoarding and now civic pride? She was turning into an old Drake! She quickened her pace and turned left. It wasn’t far from the Adventurer’s Guild—the street she wanted, Trader’s End, was just a bit north and east of her position.

There was no need for Selys or her friends to ask directions where they were going. They knew Liscor by heart, and so they came to the wide street quite quickly. It was like and unlike Market Street, which Erin frequently visited. In truth, the Human girl had never come here. And why would she? Unless she were exploring, Krshia could handle all of her immediate shopping needs.

But by the same token, it meant Erin didn’t really know Liscor, for all that she’d lived in the city for so long. And if she had, perhaps she wouldn’t have so flippantly written Liscor off, at least in Selys’ opinion. The Drake inhaled the smell of spices, saw the huge caravans, a rolling wagon parked in the street, a few [Merchants] sitting and drinking with customers at small tables, [Guards] watching passersby with care and boredom written across their faces…this was Trader’s End.

“Pallass is more exciting, honestly, Erin…”

The little street wasn’t a one-way street. Nor was it filled with [Traders]. They tended to be crowded out, unless Liscor was blocked off. But with the spring had come [Merchants], and they liked to have a place to conduct business. So any caravan selling up-scale goods would stop here for a day or two, and any wealthy socialite or someone with extra gold to spare might visit. Selys had only bought from this street once before, but she liked to visit.

And if Erin had ever known of this street, or come across it by chance, she might have met more of her kind. For there were Human [Merchants] aplenty. At least, in the spring. In the winter, it was true that few Humans visited Liscor; Drakes took the opportunity to come north from the Blood Fields. But with the aforementioned fields being active in the spring and summer, it was time for Humanity to pour in.

“There are even more [Merchants] than usual. Think they’re here because of all the adventurers?”

“Of course, scales-for-brains. Why else would they make the journey? They’re not going south. And look, some are selling fabrics from the north! That looks like a Balerosian print! Selys, come see!”

Selys looked over. The first [Merchant] Lellia was pointing to was indeed selling bolts of fabric, ready to be cut out by a [Seamstress] and sewn into a work of art. The patterns were indeed beautiful and colorfully dyed—a waving, blue and red pattern separated by a white stripe. If you looked closely you could see there was a second pattern in the blue and red: smaller triangles of darker thread that looked magnificent. The [Merchant] was pointing it out with evident satisfaction. Selys gulped. That would make a great dress, and it was high-quality cotton, practical for wearing, not just fancy to-dos. But if you wanted to turn that into a dress for nights out…

“No touching, please, ladies!”

The [Merchant] had two big [Guards], both Gnolls, blocking the bolts of cloth. He was a Human with a bit too much weight and an older man’s paunch, but a quite thick and glorious head of hair and a shining jade amulet that spoke to anyone with an eye for trinkets. He was dressed just as colorfully as his wares, and Selys bet he’d done it to impress. Drakes liked flash, and so more than one female Drake was crowded around. A few Gnolls too, eying the fabrics the man was showing off.

“Please, buying customers only!”

He gently but politely shooed off a few Drakes with questions, calmly noting the cut of their own dresses and jewelry. His wave took in Selys, Lellia, and Mica, who’d joined the group. Warsh rolled his eyes. The [Merchant] had a little cup of wine in hand and a carafe of the stuff at his table but no client—it was a tactic Selys was familiar with. He’d invite someone who could probably pay to sit down and drink with him. At the level of a [Merchant], business was as much being social as it was having something to sell.

“Selys, what do you think? Wouldn’t that look amazing on you? And it’s not a tricky cloth. My teacher could whip up a dress in a few days! What do you think?”

Lellia was urging Selys to investigate the cloth. And it did call to Selys. She wondered what the price was. A hundred gold coins? For the entire cloth bolt, maybe. It couldn’t be two hundred, could it? And she could sneeze two hundred gold pieces out and not blink! Having the dress made would be even cheaper. She hesitated. But she didn’t have the gold on her, which reminded her why she’d come.

“Miss Gnoll, would you like to inspect my cloths? I have quite the selection! More still in my wagons! Please, come and have a drink. Ladies, please, a few steps back for my guest!”

The [Merchant] had spotted a rich-looking Gnoll in the back. He waved, and the [Guards] came forwards, parting the onlookers and escorting a Gnoll who was wearing a very light, very stylish sarong-style dress, with a cut shirt that let her arms breathe around the shoulders and sides while still covering her arms and the rest of her body. It was a look Gnolls could pull off better than Drakes and Humans; they had hair to hide what would be too much flesh or scale to modestly reveal. Lellia sighed as Selys turned away.

“I’m not here for clothes. Maybe I’ll take a look later. Warsh, do you see anyone selling magical goods?”

“Who isn’t? But there’s a few of them selling goods for adventurers. Want to see? They’ve got a fancy magic sword! It’s freezing the bucket of water solid!”

Mica called out after him.

“Is that all boys like? Gnolls and Drakes. You’re a [Receptionist], Warsh!”

Selys followed the Drake down the street. She saw there were more [Merchants] with magical items gathered around there. One of them, a Human in his late thirties, was lounging against the side of his wagon, taking his ease. The side of the wagon had unfolded, displaying a trove of objects of all kinds. Bags of holding, never-dip quills, cooling stones, rarer potions…there was a harried, younger [Trader] doing the work of answering questions in front of the display and four [Guards] standing around the wagon. Selys stood on her tip-toes to look. Mica poked her gently.

“What do you think? Will you buy anything? What did you come here for?”

“Uh, maybe. I don’t know, though. That’s a lot of gold to spend, and I didn’t bring any…”

“Oh come on, Selys. You’re loaded! You can spend some, yes? And then why don’t we get some cloths like Lellia suggested? We can have her master make them into dresses and go to a party. Why not tonight?”

Selys frowned. Were there bags of holding in the wagon? Then she looked at her Gnoll friend, confused.

“Dresses? But that’s way too expensive, Mica. And you just quit your job.”

“Well…but we could go together. Why not? At least let’s go for some drinks after this. Come on.”

There was something—off about the way Mica was speaking. Her tone was wheedling. Selys half-looked at her, and something in her head lit up. Did Mica think…?

Unbeknownst to Selys, the [Merchant] yawning as he sat by his wagon sat up suddenly. He couldn’t have heard Selys or Mica speaking. They were too far away, and he wasn’t listening. But he sat up nonetheless, and his eyes locked on Selys. He got up as Selys turned to face her friend.

“Mica, do you want me to buy you a dress?”

“What? No. I didn’t—it would just look good on you. And me and Lellia, yes? Right?”

Mica laughed, but her tail, which Selys had been watching, suddenly went very still. Lellia, who’d been pointing out an item to Warsh, looked up. Selys stared at her Gnoll friend as he spoke, slowly.

“But you can’t pay for something like that. So I should pay for it?”

The Gnoll girl smiled widely and nervously, as she spoke quickly.

“Only if you want to. I mean, it would look good.”

Selys nodded slowly.

“It would. But that’s one fabric. And three of us dressed the same might look…tacky?”

Lellia came over, shrugging and looking overly-cheerful.

“Just a bit! But hey, it would be really cool, wouldn’t it?”

Selys looked at her smile and took a breath. She forced a smile onto her face.

“Yeah, but if we were doing it, wouldn’t it be better to have three dresses? Each one different?”

“But I can’t afford that. So…I mean, it would be up to you. But it would look really good at a party, wouldn’t it, Selys?”

Mica grinned hopefully. Selys nodded, and inside her stomach began to twist.

“It would. But for what party? We had one just the other day.”

“But the Tailless Thief is open all the time, Selys. And Peslas was a great host. Why not visit there again after this? Or—we could visit one of the bars. There’ll be a great troupe at the Wishdrinks tonight. We could go dancing there, with you, us, and some of the others. They’d all be down for that.”

Warsh cut in, and Lellia and Mica nodded excitedly. Lellia leaned on Warsh’s shoulder, speaking faster and gesturing at the [Cloth Merchant]

“I bet my teacher could even cut some dresses out and sew them up if it was a priority order, Selys.”

The Drake [Receptionist] looked at her friends. Wishdrinks was a very expensive pub, which was to a ‘bar’ what the Tailless Thief was to an ‘inn’. A hangout with attractive, younger Drakes and Gnolls entertaining you rather than a place to sleep as well as eat regular meals.

It was very upscale, and not only were the drinks fantastic, you could dance, eat well, and have a great night out. If you had money to spend. Selys had never been there. And she suspected the others hadn’t been there more than once or twice at a bigger party.

“I don’t know.”

“Aw, come on, Selys. Your day off starts now! And besides—no, wait. What if we all went to Pallass.”

Lellia looked around. Warsh and Mica’s eyes lit up.

“Pallass?”

“Why not? Selys’ friend has a door, right? And we’ve never been—I mean, I’ve never been there! I bet there are tons of fancy places to visit!”

“But you need to ask to go.”

“Well, we can all put our names down. No one else is going to Pallass, right? And it’s free.”

Selys’ stomach was twisting over and over again now.

“But Pallass is expensive. I hear it’s way more expensive, especially for a really high-level establishment. Some don’t even take new customers. You have to know the owner.”

“Yeah, but money’s not a problem, is it? I mean, if it’s to visit Pallass…”

The copper penny dropped. Only, since it was Selys, it was a gold coin and it clunked. All three of her friends were looking at her. At her.

“I have to work. What if all of you went?”

Mica snorted.

“What would be the point of that? Come on, Selys. You can afford to take time off—or quit your job! You keep talking about how much your grandmother makes you work. Just walk back into her office and tell her you quit! Then you can join the rest of us and have some real fun, yes? Besides, you have enough money—”

“Uh, Mica—”

Warsh had noticed the sudden change in the way Selys’ tail was wagging. Her face remained the same, but her tail had stopped dead in the street. And it was beginning to curl up. But Mica, in her excitement, kept going.

“We can get dresses, go to the Tailless Thief tonight—or visit Pallass! Why not? It will be fun. And you should come. You have to come! We told everyone—”

“Mica.”

Lellia had spotted the same thing. She stomped on Mica’s foot. The Gnoll yelped, then she looked down.

“Oh.”

The three friends fell silent. They stared at Selys. She was clenching her claws so tightly she could feel her scales grinding together. She spoke levelly as she could.

“I like my job.”

No one said a word. Selys went on, looking from face to face.

“I like working with my grandmother, no matter what I say. And Warsh, you have to go to work later today. So I’m not drinking. I’m not going to a party, and I don’t want a dress. I’m not in the mood. Okay?”

She met Warsh’s eyes. He didn’t meet hers. Selys was going to leave it at that. She was going to, but Mica burst out despite Lellia’s silent signals.

“Aw, come on, Selys—”

The Drake whirled and shouted in her friend’s face.

“I’m not spending my money for you, Mica! I’m not buying you a dress and I’m not paying for you and everyone we know to party! I thought we were friends!”

The Gnoll backed up. Selys took a gulp of air and realized people were staring. Lellia looked astounded. Warsh was turning red. Mica looked hurt, guilty, and then angry.

“I thought we were friends too, Selys. What’s wrong with spending some of your money? You told us you inherited it and you have more than enough to spend!”

“Mica—”

Lellia was trying to pull the [Clerk] back, but Mica was taller and stronger than her. Selys glared. What had she said at the Tailless Thief?

“It’s mine. I choose how to spend it!”

“Well—fine! Maybe you should just keep it yourself, you hoarder!”

Lellia and Warsh gasped. Selys felt her face turning crimson. She pointed a claw at Mica, who’d realized she might have gone too far. She raised a placating paw, too late.

“Selys, I didn’t mean that. I only meant—Warsh was saying—”

“You and Warsh can go eat your tails. And you, Lellia. If I see you—you know what? No. As far as I’m concerned, all three of you can—”

Selys never got to say the rest of what was boiling away in her stomach. Someone reached out and, before she could speak, very quickly, but firmly, grasped her on the shoulder. It was just a touch, but instantly Selys felt a cool, calming feeling run through her. Her words died unspoken, and a man, the same Human [Merchant] who’d been sitting against his wagon, stepped forwards.

“Why don’t we leave it at that? Miss Selys, good Drakes, Miss Gnoll, I think this fight won’t do more than create grudges if it goes on. And this is a public street. Let’s say you agree to part ways, for now. I think that’s wise.”

He looked around. Warsh, Mica, and Lellia stared. So did Selys. The [Merchant] was shorter than the first, middle-aged [Cloth Merchant], about Selys’ height. But he had more youth and energy about him, even if he was wearing a traveller’s garb. And his touch was still calming Selys down. He smiled at her friends.

“I think Miss Selys here will benefit from some time alone, don’t you?”

“Uh—right. Yes. come on, Mica.”

Warsh grabbed his friend. Lellia did too. They towed Mica back. Warsh half-turned. He hesitated.

“Sorry, Selys. I didn’t—”

Then he turned and left. Selys looked around and saw at least two dozen Drakes and Gnolls staring at her, along with several [Merchants] and [Guards]. She turned crimson. But the [Merchant] only twisted his head around and whistled.

“Febin, get one of those tables. And a chair. And something to drink. Not wine. A juice. My guest and I will have a talk. In the shade over there.”

He pointed at a tree whose roots were trying to overgrow the little triangle of soil it was planted in. Selys found herself seated, and in a minute, sitting across from the Human. It was only after he’d offered her some refreshing apple juice and she’d taken a cup down that she could speak.

“Thank you. I think.”

“My pleasure, Miss Selys. It is Selys, isn’t it? My name is Farri Sightly. I’m a [Merchant].”

He offered a hand and Selys gingerly shook it. Farri pointed back at where Selys had been shouting.

“I noticed your fight. I stepped in before you could ruin that friendship. I hope you don’t mind.”

“Some friendship.”

Selys slumped in her seat. Farri smiled.

“I think your friends will realize how they acted when they have a chance to think. That young Drake boy already did, I think. Credit to you for realizing what they were after, but don’t hold too much of a grudge. Money tests friendships hard, and I hear it’s worse among Drakes. It’s plenty bad among Humans. Trust me. I speak from experience.”

Selys looked up sharply.

“What did you hear?”

Farri took a drink of juice.

“Nothing specific. But I already knew you were rich before you started shouting. I just had to take one look at you to know that. Fresh wealth? Inheritance or some kind of windfall? You’re no adventurer.”

He tapped underneath one eye. Selys blinked at him.

“You have a Skill?”

“[Evaluation of Wealth]. A handy Skill for any [Merchant]. Or [Thief]. It’s not the most common Skill, but I’d watch your purse, Miss. Or make sure your money’s in a safe place. You have a freshly come glow about you, and that speaks of new money.”

That was exactly what Selys had been worried about. She stood up.

“Thank you. For stopping me and the drink. But I don’t want—”

“Please. Sit.”

Selys hesitated. She wanted to go, but the man’s voice was soothing. And she found herself sitting down. Only when she’d done that did she glare at him.

“That’s a Skill too, isn’t it?”

He coughed, embarrassed.

“Er—[Prolonged Negotiations]. I’m surprised you noticed.”

“I know my way around Skills. And [Merchants]. Fine. I can’t leave. But I’m not a rookie about to be fleeced, you know.”

He looked shocked and a bit hurt.

“No, no, that’s not me! What kind of low-life do you take me for? I’m purely here as someone hoping to make some lucrative sales. Because something tells me the cost of some juice and a few words will earn me at least a few hundred gold coins. It’s the big sales I’m looking for, Miss. And that means cultivating relationships with potential clients.”

He looked meaningfully at Selys again. She hesitated.

“Well…I did come here to shop. But I don’t have any coin on me.”

He nodded.

“That’s a common occurrence, Miss. Or did you think most of the rich customers walked out with bags of holding stuffed with thousands of gold coins? If they’re stupid, they do, but most learn to deposit their gold at the Merchant’s Guild and arrange payment there. Or, if your money’s elsewhere, the Watch will help you collect it and pay me without asking for more than a small fee. The City Watch in Drake cities, that is.”

“Really? I had no idea they do that.”

Selys blinked. She looked at Farri and hesitated. She knew it was partly because of his Skills, but she was feeling more and more inclined to trust the man with every passing second. So she took a deep breath.

“Okay. I am looking for a bag of holding. But…that was to hold the money I have.”

He smiled, and Selys could have sworn she felt his delight in her trust in him. She told herself it was a Skill. Skill, and charisma, which you needed if you wanted to be a [Merchant].

“Ah. A bag of holding would help with that. But it’s still vulnerable. As I said, it’s safe to place money in the Merchant’s Guild…although there are fees. But if you wanted to protect your gold, could I suggest a box enchanted with the holding spell? I sell magical vaults too.”

“Really? Aren’t they really expensive?”

Selys had heard of magical vaults, but in her mind they were always huge, warded rooms filled with treasure. Farri shook his head.

“There are always degrees of enchantment. Some nobles have huge vaults crammed with so many wards they can’t even fit a compression spell inside—for fear the magical goods will corrupt the compression as well. But if you just deal in gold, I can sell you a very small, very easy-to-conceal vault that looks as plain as anything. Thieves will have trouble finding it, and if they aren’t attuned to the lock spell…I have all kinds of varieties, from lethal to noisy to incapacitating. Would you like me to show you some examples? And while I’m at it, I can sell you some very cheap bags of holding. And anything else you might care to see.”

He gave Selys a very soothing smile that made her want to trust him. She knew it was a Skill. She knew it, but she still stood up and followed him over to his wagon.

“I guess I could take a look…”

[Kings] had been made into [Beggars] from that line alone. But while Farri might have been a high-level [Merchant], he was true to his word. Better to have a client that might come back again than earn a reputation as a [Swindler]. His prices were fair, and Selys bought too much. A magical vault, a small bag of holding, a quill that could automatically refill itself from the matching inkpot, a talisman that kept away bugs from her house, a little cooling stone, and a very bouncy ball that bounced away from you until you said the retrieval word…

“You’re willing to give me the bag of holding? Just like that?”

Selys blinked down at the bag of holding, a little blue satchel with bright yellow ties. Farri gave her a winning smile as his apprentice [Trader] dutifully packed up the goods she’d bought and set them aside.

“I can pick a client, Miss Selys. Trust goes both ways. If you ran, well, the City Watch in Liscor are good at their jobs, and we [Merchants] usually have our own ways of getting even. Besides which, a bag of holding isn’t the worst of risks to take. I’ll be staying at the Firehearth Inn after evening. I’d advise you to request a [Guardsman] accompany you when you transport the coin.”

“I will. And I’ll come to your inn. Um. Thank you.”

“A pleasure. And if you have any other needs, please let me know. You see, I don’t often come by Liscor. But I’m always willing to change my route, and if—”

Farri was trying to lay on the charm, giving Selys a handshake with his other hand clasping hers gently, smile in full bloom. But here at least he failed, because the [Cloth Merchant] from earlier sidled over and, with great delicacy and powerful hips, bumped Farri out of the way. Selys blinked as Farri swore and nearly fell over.

“Miss Selys, was it? I do regret not spotting you earlier. Can I tempt you to sit down and peruse some of my fabrics? I’d love to sell you a sample—and for a first-time customer, I’d let you have the first purchase at a, say, twenty gold coin reduction? Humric Mames, at your service. [Cloth Merchant]; my wares come from Baleros and Chandrar and String-people buy from me as well as the nobility.”

Selys’ jaw dropped. Farri turned, glaring. He strode back over.

“Don’t listen to that fool, Miss Selys.”

He tried to shove the [Cloth Merchant], but Humric was impossible to budge. He crowded Farri out. And he wasn’t the only one.

The [Merchants] visiting Liscor might not have all had Farri’s eye for wealth, but they still had eyes. And the new addition to the list of Liscor’s elite hadn’t escaped their notice. They crowded around, but Humric was like a rock. A rock that moved and could careen into his fellow [Merchants], sending them sprawling while his [Guards] gave him the chance to make his pitch to Selys. Which Humric did, speaking at a very rapid pace as he tried to guide her to his wares on display.

“I’ve been travelling to Liscor quite often. But what with the dungeon and this latest business…still, it’s a profitable run. And if I come back, I’ll be sure to bring back an inventory from Invrisil. I can even procure items from First Landing. Perhaps you’d like to make a request? I’d be delighted to find whatever you need. And there are a number of delectable new items. The latest fashions from Terandria, or perhaps some of Baleros’ latest…?”

Selys knew it was a Skill. She still bought three bolts of cloth. The first, the blue and red pattern, heavily discounted. The second, a black-and-gold bolt of silk for her grandmother. And the third, some very fine yellow cotton she wanted to make into a dress. And Humric smiled all the while. In the background Farri fumed, and the other [Merchants] tried to get Selys’ attention. It was the quick [Merchant] who got the first sale. But it was the man with the [Hip Bump] technique who closed the second deal.



——



“Oh Ancestors, what have I done?”

Selys sat in her apartment, head in her hands. She stared down at the pile of gold hidden away in her dresser. And in the back of her wardrobe. And underneath her bed. Gold—not pure gold, which was heavy and less shiny—but gold coins winked up at her. Selys stared at them, at the neat rows she’d arranged. She slowly pushed them into the plain, brown bag of holding and stared at it. The blue bag of holding was on her dresser; the brown one had come separately. As had the red one emblazoned with Humric’s initials.

Selys took a great deal of care to keep the brown bag of holding away from the other two. Bags of holding did not play well together, and she’d been warned to keep these three out of proximity and to finish as quickly as possible. Lesser bags of holding could handle being close together for a while, but the stronger the enchantment, the shorter the time span before something…happened. So Selys opened the door and held the first bag of holding out.

“This one’s to Mister Farri. Trader’s End.”

“Got it. Do you have a personal seal, Miss?”

Selys blinked at the Street Runner waiting for the bag. He was a short Drake, quite young, and practically bouncing on his feet. She shook her head.

“I don’t. Er, I could get a standard one—”

“No need. I’ll get Mister Farri’s seal, or he can send someone to testify. Thanks!”

The Street Runner took the brown bag of holding and raced down the apartment steps. Selys watched him go, then turned. A Gnoll woman was waiting patiently by her door. She’d stepped aside to let the Street Runner go.

“Sorry. I’ll get the other bag of holding done soon.”

“No need to rush, Miss.”

The Gnoll City Runner gave Selys a lazy smile. The Drake tried to return it; she hurried back in and counted.

“One, two, three, four, five…ten…twenty, thirty, forty…”

It took her a while, but she got the red bag of holding belonging to Humric filled and handed it to the City Runner. The Gnoll didn’t ask for Selys’ seal. She just nodded.

“This will go to Merchant Humric within five minutes, Miss Shivertail. If you have any complaints, you may testify at the local Runner’s Guild. You may also confirm the delivery by asking for me or my fellow Runner, and we will provide a full summary of our delivery on request.”

“Oh. Thank you! I, uh, that’s fine. Thank you. Really.”

“It’s an easy service.”

The Gnoll grinned at Selys. She touched a paw to her brow and took off. She didn’t bother with stairs; she just vaulted from the second story and landed on the street before taking off with a long, loping stride. Selys watched her go.

City Runner and Street Runner. That was the difference. Humric hadn’t bothered to make Selys do the footwork, and Farri had copied his example. But it was a mark of the difference between the two; Farri had sent a Street Runner with a plain bag of holding, while Humric had paid for a City Runner to deliver Selys’ gold and sent one of his personal bags of holding. And it made a difference; somehow, Selys found herself liking Humric’s expansive, aggressive style more.

He’d gently bullied her into buying some cloth, all while plying her with wine, grapes from Chandrar, and insulting Farri and the other [Merchants] to their faces while they looked on. And to top matters off, he’d given her this easy way of paying and receiving her goods, and had his [Guards] escort Selys away from Trader’s End before she could spend any more money.

“A [Merchant] doesn’t just treat his clients like a friend, Miss Selys. Oh no, he treats them far better!”

Selys laughed to herself as she remembered that. She walked back into her apartment. Then she panicked again.

“Oh no. What have I done?”

She’d spent so much. More money than she’d spent in…all of her life? Yes! Definitely! But then Selys stared down at the pile of gold. She peered under her bed. She checked the wardrobe. She sat down.

“One, two…three hundred. A thousand over there…”

Her money pile hadn’t…decreased that much. Selys had spent a lot. But she hadn’t spent that much. The most expensive item she’d bought had only been, what? An eight hundred gold piece vault? Yes, and the bag of holding was only six hundred and sixty gold pieces. The cloth had been cheap. Selys stared at her gold piled up on the floor. It shone at her.

“I could go back there and buy more cloth from Humric. I could buy those ten bolts he picked out for me. And it wouldn’t even…”

The Drake stared at her bag of holding. She stared at the gold. She grabbed the bag of holding, shoveled some gold into it, walked out of her apartment, looked at the little key in the lock, then ran back in the apartment, grabbed her dagger, and locked the door. Then she hovered at her window, staring out anxiously until a Street Runner passed by.

“Hey! Hey you!”

The Gnoll girl did a double-take. She looked up, and Selys waved at her frantically.

“Up here!”

“I’m on delivery, Miss! Urgent! It’s fresh fish!”

The Gnoll girl complained. Selys threw a gold coin at her. The Gnoll immediately raced up the stairs.

“How can I help you, Miss?”

“Another gold coin if you get my grandmother. Tekshia Shivertail. Tell her I want her to come over now. It’s an emergency!”

“Do you have a s—”

“No, I do not! But it’s two gold pieces. Oh, you also have to tell Mister Farri in Trader’s End I want my magical vault now. If you do the delivery, it’s a third gold piece.”

The Gnoll’s eyes lit up. She didn’t ask for a seal again; after all, you only needed them as proof of deliveries completed. If the customer was fine with handing money out in advance or on completion, Runners could skip that step. They only registered with the guild so packages could be delivered and handled by the people there. The Street Runner took off like lightning, abandoning her delivery of fish. Selys waited by her window, watching her stairs like a hawk. Then she realized a [Thief] could come in through her windows and was trying to block all of them when someone rapped on her door.

“Who is it?”

“Me.”

Selys hurried over to the door. She knew the voice, but she was in full paranoia mode by now.

“Who’s me?”

“Me, you idiot. Let me in.”

The Drake waiting outside impatiently pointed at the City Runner, the same Gnoll woman who’d taken Humric’s delivery, and the Gnoll stepped back. Tekshia Shivertail waited as the lock slowly turned in the door.

“Grandma? Are you—”

Tekshia kicked the door. Selys, who’d been leaning against it, went flying. She screamed as she hit the ground, rolling like Tekshia had taught her as a hatchling. Tekshia Shivertail, retired Gold-rank adventurer and Guildmistress of Liscor’s Adventuring Guild, walked into Selys’ apartment. She stared at the gold on the ground, sighed, and raised her voice.

“City Runner, bring in that vault. Selys, stop sniveling.”

She waved the Gnoll in, whose jaw dropped as she saw the gold piled up on the floor. Selys yelped.

“Grandma!”

“Stop whining. You’re going to move apartments anyways. You’ve complained about how small this one is for years in my earhole. Give the City Runner a tip; don’t offer her gold, what are you, flea-brained? You’ll have Street Runners expecting a handful of silver just for delivering a letter five feet! Now, attune yourself to this damn vault and start putting the gold inside. Why you haven’t done this already I have no idea. You have as much sense as your mother. More than your father, I suppose. Get moving!”

Tekshia Shivertail did not wait to see Selys move. She went into Selys’ kitchen, brewed some tea, and came out to find Selys doing what she’d told her to. The City Runner was gone, only slightly disappointed by a six silver tip for running for five minutes. Selys was shoveling gold into the magic vault.

Tekshia, an old Drake with dusky purple scales, watched her granddaughter working as she took a seat on Selys’ bed. Selys paused to rub at her back; gold coins, even if they were alloyed, were heavy in bulk. Only then did Tekshia speak.

“You’ve finally gotten the bug, haven’t you, my dear?”

Selys glanced up. Tekshia clarified.

“Hoarding.”

The [Receptionist] turned red.

“Grandma! I spend money! And I’m not hoarding, I’m just—”

She paused, realizing that denying she was a hoarder while she had gold in each claw wasn’t the most compelling of arguments. Tekshia smiled, and her stern face relaxed a bit. Normally she had a glare that could cut through wood. But she did smile. Then it snapped back into a look that frightened rookies working at the Adventurer’s Guild, both [Receptionist] and adventurer alike. To Selys, it was just how her grandmother’s face was normally.

“Hoarding isn’t just about gold, girl. It’s about owning things. Or did you think Dragons just sat on gold? No. They covet treasures. We do the same things. We fill our homes with everything we want. You’re starting it; I do it now and then. But I’m not rich any longer. And you just came into your wealth. But you’re caught between wanting to keep your gold and spend it, aren’t you?”

“I spent some of it.”

Selys sulkily pushed more gold into her vault. It was rearranging itself, piling up in miniature as Selys watched. She could easily pull it out, and it would organize the coins by denomination as well as categorize jewelry and other valuables. Tekshia snorted and kicked the vault, which was metal but carefully painted to look like plain wood, with one foot.

“This? This is cheap, girl. You should have paid for one worth at least two thousand gold pieces. Probably four just to be safe. The next time you meet the [Merchant] that sold you this, make him trade it in.”

“Four thousand? Grandmother, that’s more than half of what I have! I think!”

“You’ll get more. Don’t be stingy when it comes to protecting your treasure. And you’ll need it to store everything you buy. Or did you think [Thieves] only went for vaults? Smart ones will rob everything but the vault, even if they’re barely Level 10. And thanks to your idiocy—and your stupid, gossipy friends—the city knows you’re rich.”

Selys winced.

“Grandma, I only—”

“You didn’t think. And I suppose it’s a credit that you didn’t realize how much you had until now. Actually, I take it back. That’s not wisdom, that’s just stupidity.”

Tekshia reached out and flicked at Selys. The Drake recoiled.

“I…I just got it a week ago. I had no idea what to do with it. I went to work! You saw me! And I didn’t steal any of this—”

“Of course you didn’t. Do I look like an idiot? You got it from renting out the Heartflame Breastplate, the treasure of our people, like a cheap toy!”

The old Drake glared at Selys. The [Receptionist] winced. Tekshia sipped from her cup. Loudly.

“Well done. I would have never thought of that. Are you a [Heiress], by any chance? That’s the only class I can think of that fits. If you are, level up as much as you can. I’d like to live in a mansion when I finally retire.”

“A mansion?”

Selys’ jaw dropped. Then she realized what Tekshia was saying. Selys sat back on her tail.

“You’re proud of me?”

The old Drake shot her a stern glance.

“You’re more addled than I thought. Drink some tea! And why wouldn’t I be proud? You made money. True, you had to use a legendary artifact to do it, but you didn’t sell it. You own the Heartflame Breastplate, and somehow you turned that fact into thousands of gold pieces. Even if you nearly got all of it stolen. Still, you’ve got more money than I ever dreamed you’d have. I always thought I’d be richer than you even with what remains of my savings. Huh. I guess I got that wrong.”

Selys blinked at her grandmother. Somehow she found herself sitting among the scattered gold pieces, sipping from one of her cups. Her grandmother still had a lecturing tone, but the words were…positive. That was rare. Selys felt a kick in her stomach, a good one. She took a breath.

“I guess I need to let you know I’m quitting, then.”

It was hard to imagine. But on the other hand…Selys would like sleeping in. And she’d have more time to visit Mrsha and talk with Erin. She almost smiled at the thought. Tekshia did not. She scowled at Selys.

“Quit? What gave you that idea? And refill my cup, would you?”

She thrust out her tea cup. Selys blinked at her.

“Grandma, you said yourself! I’m rich! Why would I work a job?”

“Because I said so. You’re not quitting until I get a better replacement.”

“Grandma!”

The old Drake sighed. She sprang up from the bed with more agility than she had any right to. Selys shot her a look as Tekshia refilled her cup herself, grumbling about unfilial granddaughters.

But not every granddaughter had a grandmother who could still do backflips and outrun Street Runners, even if Tekshia complained of aching bones and body. She looked back at Selys, her tail very calmly lying on the bed. That was another feature about Tekshia; when she didn’t want you to, you couldn’t read a thing about her from her tail.

“I still need a [Receptionist]. And you’re my best one. Maybe you can consolidate the classes. Either way, you’re not allowed to quit. But I will let you work the day shifts. Six hours instead of nine. If I can hire some replacements, you can work the odd day. Actually, if you’ll pay their yearly wages, I’ll give you as much time off as you want.”

“But that’s not fair! I’m rich!”

“And I’m your grandmother. You can’t quit now, when all these adventurers are traipsing about my Guild and you’re one of the few people who know how things work. Besides, once you run off to spend your fortune, I won’t see you anymore.”

Selys was about to protest, but then she saw Tekshia’s face. Her tail never moved, but the old Drake’s face was less guarded. It was a sad look. Tekshia looked around the room. Her eyes found something on the walls. A little portrait, framed and covered with glass. Expensive, but Selys had bought it the first year Tekshia had begun employing her.

The illustration was a sketch; the kind of thing that was a prelude to a proper portrait. It showed two Drakes. It wasn’t any scene out of life, although the details were accurate as far as Tekshia had always said. The [Artist] had drawn it from a memory. Tekshia’s. The Drake looked at it. So did Selys, but whatever emotions she felt were old. Incomplete.

She envied the look in Tekshia’s eyes, and all the gold lying on the floor would have been a small price to pay to make that picture complete. To hear a voice. Wait—

Tekshia stood up and walked over to the portrait. She glanced back at Selys, sadder and older than Selys ever wanted to see her. Tekshia reached up and half-touched the portrait, claws gently skating over glass.

“If your uncle could see what you did with the armor, he’d be proud, I think. So would your parents. At last, someone in the family who figured out how to get rich by being smart, not being a warrior and risking their tails or sponging off of Zel’s fame. I suppose this counts in a way, but he gave this to you. Don’t let anyone steal it.”

Selys looked up at her parents. Her voice was smaller as she stared at the gold on her floor. And now it looked more like metal. Like trash, covering the plain, worn, wooden apartment she hated, but which felt like a home.

“Grandma, what should I do? Really? I didn’t sell the armor because Uncle Zel gave it to me. But what should I do with…?”

She waved a claw. Tekshia took a seat at Selys’ little table and sipped from her cup. She glanced at Selys.

“Learn to be rich. Don’t run from it. And don’t pretend you’re not. What’s the point of doing that? Don’t be guilty either. Don’t think you have to give it away, or do your friends favors. It’s yours. You earned it, by luck, by chance, but it’s yours. Keep doing that. Don’t squander your fortunes. I did, when I was your age.”

Selys scooted forwards on her bottom. She frowned at her grandmother.

“What, you did? You told me you weren’t rich.”

“I did? I must have lied.”

“Grandma—”

The old Drake hunched her shoulders, and her tail wrapped around her chair’s leg.

“You were probably too young. And it’s an embarrassing story. What did I say, that I quit and just had enough to live in my means? That was a lie.”

Selys shook her head. For a moment, she forgot the gold around her. As she absently flicked a gold coin from underneath her bottom, she looked up at her grandmother, and she could have been a little hatchling staring up at her grandmother in Tekshia’s apartment a decade ago.

“You told me you lost it all when the Necromancer attacked the city.”

“Ah. That’s a good lie.”

“But it is a lie?”

Tekshia sighed.

“Yes. It is. I suppose you’re old enough now. I might as well tell you since it’s a mistake you shouldn’t make. Sit up. Don’t slouch. Let’s see. There’s enough tea. Do you have anything to eat?”

“Um. I have crackers with a fishy paste. It might have gone bad. Or—oh! Erin gave me some cookies the other week. They’re a bit stale—”

“Those. Now.”

Selys obediently got her grandmother the stale cookies. Tekshia shot her a look.

“You have enough cookies to eat that you leave some to get stale?”

“I’m too tired from work to think about eating most of the time, Grandma. And I’ve been going out recently. Well, I was, with Warsh, Lellia, and…”

“I see. I see. Well, give them here. You may have one too, I suppose. Not that one! Mm. These are good.”

“They go well with milk, apparently.”

“Do they? I don’t like milk much. Milk tea isn’t for me. And I don’t trust it. It comes from cows. And those great, stinking things are disgusting. They have parasites, you know. Ever see a Creler burst out of a cow? You’ll never forget it.”

“Grandma, please. Your story about how you were wealthy?”

“Yes, yes. I was getting to that. Now, where should I begin?”

Tekshia chewed on a cookie, thinking. At last, she began, and Selys leaned forwards at the little table, wondering when she’d grown taller than her grandmother. But the crackling voice was just like she remembered.

“You know my career. I wasn’t the best Gold-rank; hah, I could never get close to Named Adventurer status no matter how hard I tried. My teams came and went; I wasn’t the best adventurer, but I wasn’t the worst. I made a name for myself.”

“Tekshia the Spearmaster. Yes, Grandma.”

“Don’t interrupt! Yes. Tekshia the Spearmaster. It should have been Spearmistress, but I heard too many jokes about that. I earned that class. Not like that Relc, who got it from killing a [Spearmaster] in battle. So I was good. But I knew I was getting older and, frankly, I got tired of the adventuring life. Too many days hunting Trolls in bogs. So I quit.”

“Just like that?”

The old Drake looked annoyed. She chewed her cookie furiously and sipped more tea.

“No, not ‘just like that’. It took a long time to make my decision. Years. But I did it in the end. I retired from Gold-rank adventuring. And I was rich. I didn’t feel like it at the time. Adventuring is like a tunnel. No, wait, a staircase. Tunnels are idiotic. You keep chasing higher and higher, saving up for the next artifact, saying ‘if only I had real armor, not this steel crap’, or, ‘if only my spear were tipped with adamantine, not just enchanted’. And then when you quit, you realize how much gold you spent on just a potion.”

“How rich were you?”

“Richer than you are right now. By quite a lot, young lady. And I spent the money I had, too. I spent a lot of it on parties. Drinks, food, a fancy house, travelling…what adventurers normally do. Some of my old friends got into trouble. I helped them out. Some of the less-successful adventurers could use some gold. I had gold for years, even when I was pregnant. Even when your father was growing up and married your mother. Even when you were born. I wasn’t as rich, then, but I had investments. I was still one of Liscor’s wealthier citizens come the Second Antinium War. And then I…er…donated the rest to Liscor’s army.”

“You did what?”

Tekshia looked defensive. And uncomfortable.

“It was a different time! After the First Antinium War, when we held the walls and we could count the number of officers that survived? I had [Majors] and [Colonels] knocking on my door, very nice young Drakes and Gnolls. Always in need of gold. Always so thankful, as were the high command. And between all of it, the donations to the city, the rest, I suppose it ran out. That was an unpleasant day. I had to sell a lot of my gear to pay off the debts by the time I broke even.”

She watched as Selys put her face on the table. Tekshia was blushing, but she cleared her throat and Selys looked up.

“Don’t misunderstand me, Selys. I’m not poor. I had my job as Guildmistress, and that earned me money. I could live, and I still live quite comfortably off that. But I used to have money. And take it from me, adventurers spend money like a…Eater Goat shits.”

“Grandma! Wait, how often is that?”

“Often. And the wealthier they are, the more money they spend. That goes for most rich people. It’s rare to meet someone who can make more money come in than go out who’s new to the game. So don’t spend everything at once. Or if you do, hold onto that armor. Never let it slip away. You made your choice to keep it; never offer even a part of it, no matter what they offer you.”

After that, Tekshia finished her third cookie. Selys sat at the table, tail moving back and forth restlessly.

“So you think I should keep making money off the armor?”

Tekshia nodded.

“That would be wise. And I would tell you to spend a lot of it on artifacts. A better vault, somewhere with wards, perhaps on security—at least on some protective charms! You know what most adventurers wear. Get that. After that? You should leave Liscor.”

“But it’s my home.”

The Drake snorted.

“So what? It’s one city. Do you know how big Izril is? You’ve never been to another city in your life, girl. When I was your age, I’d visited three Walled Cities and at least two dozen other cities!”

“And broken fifteen hearts and gotten married twice.”

Selys rolled her eyes. Tekshia raised a fist. Selys edged her chair back.

“I may exaggerate. But there’s a reason those arrogant idiots in Pallass look down on Liscor. If they ever come to Liscor, we’ll kick the scales off them in a back alley, but they are right.”

She pointed at Selys with a yellowed claw.

“You’re rich, Selys. You should go to Pallass. You should accompany that deranged girl, Erin Solstice. She’s more of a child than you are. She might need a rich friend, and you need to find out how to make that armor earn you money. Rent it to the Flamewardens for now; their leader will pay well to wear it. Most Drakes will, if only for a few days.”

“And will this be my life?”

Tekshia paused.

“Only if you want it to be. You don’t have to keep the armor. You don’t have to be rich, girl. But shouldn’t you find out what that means before you give it away?”

She was right. She usually was. Selys looked at her grandmother. She was a bit teary, but she didn’t know why. She nodded.

“Okay. I’ll do that. Erin wants me to come with her anyways. I’ll spend money and…make connections. Wall Lord Ilvriss was talking about it. I’ll visit the Flamewardens. But you have to do one thing for me, Grandma.”

Tekshia eyed her suspiciously.

“…Give you more days off?”

Selys laughed. She stood up and went over to the portrait. She unhooked it from the wall and showed Tekshia it. The Drake stared down at the sketch.

“Grandma, you have to find a [Mage Artist]. Or whoever drew this.”

“[Sketch Wizard]. I think that’s what he called himself. Why?”

“So you can get another [Mage] to do this. But do it in color. Or do a memory. They can do that, can’t they?”

Tekshia’s eyes widened. She took the portrait, inspected it.

“They can. It’s very expensive, but Wistram [Mages] can do it. Some of them. I think some of Fissival’s [Mages] know the spell. Idiots becoming [Battlemages], [Summoners], [Necromancers], and [Illusionists]. If they really wanted to earn money, they just need to learn that spell and make it cheap enough for old folk. But it’s possible if you have enough gold.”

Selys gulped.

“Then do it. I want to know what my parents said. What they were like. I’ll pay for that. And I’ll earn whatever it takes…”

She felt a lump in her throat. Selys looked down and saw Tekshia’s eyes were moist. The Drake blinked rapidly. She glanced up at Selys and then down at the portrait.

“You want to know what they were like having sex? Because I walked in on them twice when I was—”

“Grandma!”

Selys laughed and cried. Tekshia smiled and stood up. She hugged her granddaughter once. Briefly. For such a tough Drake, Tekshia was surprisingly reticent about physical contact. Then she nodded.

“Make at least twenty thousand gold pieces first, you precocious granddaughter. That’s probably what it would take to lure a [Mage] all the way here and get what you want. For now…”

She walked over to the pile of gold on the floor next to the magical vault. Selys expected Tekshia to give her another pearl of wisdom, but the Drake just bent. She had a bag of holding at her side too, a good one from her adventuring days. She casually shoveled some of the gold into it.

“I’ll take this. And this. And some of this. The old folk and I could use a night at Wishdrinks. Don’t bother coming to work tomorrow; I’ll make Warsh cover your shift.”

“What? Hey!”

Selys blinked as Tekshia nimbly hopped up and headed for the door. Selys blinked at the bare patch of her floor.

“Tekshia!”

The old Drake was already out the door as her furious granddaughter appeared in it. She laughed up at Selys, more like a [Witch]’s cackle.

“That’s Grandmother to you, Selys! And give me some of that cloth you bought! And if you didn’t buy anything nice, buy more!”

She speed-walked away as Selys shouted insults. The Drake [Receptionist] caught her breath, and then smiled as she closed her door. Her neighbor stomped on the floor to let Selys know to keep it down. Selys ignored it. She looked around and saw a Tekshia-sized gap in her apartment.

The old Drake had been bossy, mildly condescending, rude, and she’d stolen at least a hundred gold coins. And somehow, after her visit, Selys felt a lot better. She looked at her vault, slapped the lid shut, lifted it, and ran out the door to find a new apartment.



——



Selys was learning a lot of things today. She knew about speed, but now she was learning a new equation: money = speed. It was a simple formula, but the more money you offered people, the faster you got places. New apartment? Money up front worked wonders. [Merchants] having lunch? Farri and Humric were at her service!

Something else Selys was learning was the effect gold had on friends. Or maybe silver was a better analogy. Because on some, money cut and divided, but the silver shone through. Whereas other relationships tarnished. Or turned black.

It was another easy thing to spot. Some friends were poor friends. They came up to Selys and said things like—‘hey, I know Mica, Warsh, and Lellia said those things. But I want you to know that I would never’—and so on and so forth.

The true friends just apologized. Best friends, or oblivious ones like Erin, never brought it up to begin with. Or in Drassi’s case, had brought it up all along and never lied about her intentions.

The final thing Selys learned was that she was mildly out of shape. She was so tired from running around the city and lugging the twenty-pound safe about that by the time she threw her safe in her new apartment and turned the spelled key in the lock, she had to go lie down. Or buy a stamina potion. She didn’t own any, but her new home was conveniently located near the eastern gates. Near to The Wandering Inn and a certain Market Street.

Selys dragged herself over there and saw the street was bustling. [Stall Keepers] and the lower-level [Shopkeepers] might not have permanent dwellings or fancy mobile caravans like the [Merchants] on Trader’s End did, but a lot of money still went through this street, albeit in smaller denominations.

Selys spotted the familiar stall and Gnoll at once. Krshia was a face to remember in Market Street—she might not be the Gnoll rubbing shoulders with Farri and Humric, but she was a [Queen] of the low-level earners. Which would make Lism the [King]. It was a loveless marriage.

Someone else had gotten to Krshia before Selys. Or rather, someone else was hovering around Krshia, talking fast as the Gnoll tried to conduct business with her clients. Octavia ducked as Krshia irritably swatted at her. Selys slowed down to listen.

“Krshia, friend! You know we’ve had a long and profitable business relationship, right? Well, I have an opportunity for you! I hear you know Gnolls. Well, I could use a few er, bulky lads to help me out! Just for a day or two! It’s nothing underhanded, probably, but for the sake of our relationship—”

She stopped as Krshia turned to stare at her.

“We have been working together for little more than a month, Octavia Cotton. Little time to call each other business partners, yes? Not enough time for favors.”

“Yeah, but—come on, Krshia. Think of our business! You can earn a lot of money! If my potions were to, er, vanish suddenly, that’s coin down the drain! Think of it as an investment.”

Krshia shook her head as she handed another Gnoll some change.

“One of your potions was defective. You need to quality-check your batches, yes?”

“True, yes! But—”

“You stink of desperation. I will not risk my fellow Gnolls on something that smells and sounds illegal. Go ask an adventurer. Or hope Erin Solstice is inclined to help you. But that might be a mistake.”

Krshia shook her head. She turned her back on Octavia, and no matter how much the [Alchemist] pleaded, Krshia ignored her. Octavia gave up and passed by Selys, muttering to herself.

“Lousy Gnolls who think they’re above underhanded…no, no, positive, Octavia. Erin will help out. She loves helping out! I just need to phrase it like…hey, watch it! Busy people are coming through!”

She walked around Selys, irritated. The Drake ignored her. Although it was the [Alchemist]’s creations she had come here for. Krshia smiled as Selys approached her counter.

“Ah, Selys. Good afternoon to you.”

“Hey Krshia. Can I get a stamina potion please? Uh, not a defective one.”

The Gnoll grinned at Selys.

“I tested these myself after the defective one was discovered. They are fine. That is twelve silver coins.”

“Twelve? That’s cheap…can you make change for a gold coin?”

“Hrr. Of course. But a cheap potion is cheaply sold. Miss Octavia makes them in bulk, and I will admit, they are effective. If crude. You only need drink half for a good effect.”

Selys popped the vial Krshia gave her. It was indeed a small amount of liquid compared to a full-sized bottle, and true to the Gnoll’s word, the stuff was vile. Selys had tasted bad potions, but this was on another level. She gagged, but got it down. And when she did—

“Gah! That’s strong!”

It was like being smacked around by a pot’s worth of tea. And about as pleasant. Still, Selys felt her tired body perk up instantly. The taste probably had to do with that as well. She corked the vial and fake-retched a few times deep in her throat to try to get the taste out. Krshia offered her some water from a flask.

“Here.”

“Thanks. Ancestors, but that’s foul. Good price, though.”

The Gnoll smiled as Selys tilted the flask down, letting water splash into her mouth.

“Mm. True. But I hear that is the least of your concerns today. Someone has been spending coin. Quite a lot of it, yes?”

“You heard that already?”

Krshia smiled at Selys’ dismayed expression. She tapped one ear.

“One simply has to listen. And it is a topic of much gossip, yes? And important for any [Shopkeeper] to know. But I wished to bring it up out of more than just idle chatter. Will you speak with me for a second?”

Selys lowered the water flask, perplexed. Then she had a surge of apprehension. But Krshia was older. She wouldn’t try and take advantage of Selys. Right?

“Of course.”

She stepped to one side as Krshia abandoned her stall. A customer heading towards her growled in disappointment. Krshia waved in apology, but apparently this was more important than business. Which only made Selys more wary. The Gnoll took the water flask back and drank.

“Mm. Thank you. So how shall I say this most simply? You know that I am of the Silverfang Tribe, yes, Selys?”

“Of course.”

It was in Krshia’s name. Or rather, she used her tribe’s name rather than having a formal last name like Drakes and Humans. Krshia nodded.

“Well, I am a…highly placed member in my tribe, for all I live in Liscor. You see, I am still a Plains Gnoll at heart, for all that I live in the city.”

That was an important distinction. And Selys wasn’t surprised by Krshia’s admission; she’d seen and heard from Erin how much sway Krshia had. She looked at Krshia, trying to get anything from her brown eyes or her tail. Krshia grinned, and Selys turned red as she saw the Gnoll could tell what she was doing; the trouble with Gnoll tails was that they were so short!

“I apologize. I do not mean to alarm you, yes? No doubt many people have been badgering you. Let me be more plain: I came to Liscor with some of my tribe to build ties. But also to prepare a gift for the Meeting of Tribes. You know what this is?”

“It’s…the biggest event among Gnolls, right? Some annual gathering?”

“Yes. But not annual. It happens every twenty years. Sometimes it is even missed. But it is an important time. The fortunes of a tribe may change, or great worth may be acquired at the Meeting of Tribes. Which is why all seek to present a gift better than any other.”

Selys nodded. She was trying to think ahead of the conversation. Why did Krshia want her help? Selys drew a blank, so she just waited for Krshia to explain.

“The Meeting of the Tribes is still a ways away. But I think the Silverfang tribe will have much to speak of. And a worthy present to give.”

“Oh. Good. I guess that’s a feather in your cap.”

This time, Krshia blinked. She frowned, perplexed.

“A feather…in the cap?”

“That’s right. It’s a Human expression. I heard Halrac using it. Apparently [Hunters] put feathers in their hats to show what the biggest animal they killed was. Posturing, you know?”

Krshia grinned.

“Ah. I see. Gnolls do not wear hats, mostly. But I know [Hunters] who made headbands or other apparel out of feathers. It is a good expression. There is another feather I would add if I could, Selys. But it is not an easy feather. And yet it would be quite a big one and good for the city. Will you hear me out?”

Selys wanted to say ‘I’m doing just that, aren’t I?’ But she knew that was rude, and she wasn’t her grandmother, so she couldn’t get away with it. She nodded politely. Krshia took a moment. Then she spoke softly, glancing towards the roof of the City Hall, one of the taller buildings in the distance.

“I have a proposal which no one in the Council has seen fit to acknowledge. I cannot even speak to a Council member formally to suggest it. You see, many issues plague Liscor. Fewer now than there were a few weeks ago. And in fact, these are smaller problems. Solvable problems, unlike siege or war. One you are familiar with. There is a housing crisis in the city, and the dungeon has yet been mostly a drain on the city’s profits.”

“Oh, I know about that.”

Selys made a face. She’d paid far more than she’d expected for her apartment, and it had only been achieved by negotiating for a room at the previous owner’s expense. She felt a bit bad about that, but her old apartment was open, and she hated her upstairs neighbor. She was a Gnoll with acute hearing, and she and Selys had been the bane of each other’s lives. As for the dungeon—Selys knew about that indeed.

Krshia nodded.

“I would solve both by expanding Liscor and placing a small fee on the dungeon for adventurers.”

“Expanding Liscor?”

Selys blinked at the idea. But Liscor’s walls were enchanted! And they were tall, and sturdy! You couldn’t just add onto the city, could you? But Krshia seemed to think so. The Gnoll was nodding.

“It is a foreign concept to Drakes. They think of their cities as permanent. But someone built the cities. They can be expanded. Humans do it all the time. And yes, it is sometimes careless, and they often lack walls. But a wall can be built, yes? And the coin for that could come from the dungeon.”

“How? It’s hardly raking in the profits, aside from the Raskghar haul. And adventurers do not take kindly to upping the fee they pay on huge treasure hauls. We can’t change those even if we wanted to; the Adventurer’s Guild has a code.”

Krshia nodded amiably.

“Very true. But a city can regulate the dungeon’s access, yes? What if Liscor charged a few copper coins for each entrance into the dungeon? That is very nominal even for a Silver-rank team. And this dungeon is so far filled with monsters. Who uses the parts? The adventurers bring some things back, but they leave much. Insect organs, moth wings, spider shells, all of it is useful, isn’t it? And once we know what can be obtained, we might find more uses. I propose to create a list of monsters in the dungeon. An organized inventory of the monsters in the dungeons and the harvestable parts and a system to request materials.”

Selys blinked. That was a great idea! Why hadn’t she or Tekshia thought of it? She nodded.

“We could…do that. Other cities have a system like that in place. Pallass probably does it. But…”

She grimaced, realizing why she hadn’t thought of it and Tekshia hadn’t brought it up if she had.

“…That’s a lot of work. Too much for us right now. We’d have to create a list, interview adventurers, check out bestiaries, consult [Alchemists], and so on…it’s fine if we had more staff, but we don’t. And Krshia, I hate to say it, but even with this amount of coin, it wouldn’t be enough to fully hire enough [Builders], let alone [Enchanters] and so forth to fully construct a new part of the city or even smaller villages on the nearby hills.”

Selys hated to rain on the [Shopkeepers]’s parade, but Krshia was nodding even before she finished.

“It would not. But Liscor is not entirely poor, is it? And what makes a city thrive is an industry. So far, as I understand it, much of Liscor’s wealth comes from its army. It has no…specialty. But a city that thrives off of a dungeon can be richer. Moreover, more space and more need for adventurers besides treasure will drive growth. More merchants will visit the city, more people who cater towards adventurers. It is already happening, but Liscor is not adapting to the problem.”

The [Receptionist] knew Krshia was right. She rubbed at her neck spines.

“I agree. But what’s the problem? You can’t bring this up with a Council member? I don’t know if I can help. I barely remember who…oh. You want Grandmother to help? I’m sure she can get you a meeting…no?”

The Gnoll was shaking her head.

“A proposal is only so much, Selys Shivertail. What if the Council disagrees? What if they do not see my vision? And are they the best fit for the job? I hear that during Liscor’s siege, they did very little. They left it to Watch Captain Zevara, to Wall Lord Ilvriss.”

“That’s true. I heard the same rumor. So what?”

Krshia Silverfang grinned. She spread her paws wide.

“Well, do you not see it? I am saying that if the current Council is inept, why not allow me to join it? The Council selects its own members every few years. By my reckoning, this is the year for it. So let me be the first Gnoll to be part of Liscor’s Council. And let me not be alone.”

Selys blinked. A Gnoll? Gnolls had never been on Liscor’s Council. They hadn’t even been that common in the city until…recently. Until after the Second Antinium War when they’d begun appearing. Krshia and her clan. She looked at Krshia.

“No Gnoll’s ever been on the Council, Krshia. The Council is all Drakes. And they pick their replacements. Or the Guilds do, or something.”

Krshia nodded.

“That is true. Liscor has no election. Which is why I would like to change that. With your help and others. I have thought long about this and it is my decision: Liscor must have a vote. Give the city a chance to choose its leaders. And if that happens, I will ask to be elected part of the Council.”

She said it so plainly, as if she were stating facts, rather than trying to overturn Liscor’s governing system. Selys looked up at her. Krshia spoke plainly, gesturing at Selys and the City Hall in the distance.

“If I can find a way onto the Council, I would try to implement these proposals. A new dungeon tax and expanded powers for the Adventurer’s Guild and a formal request system for raw materials that might attract artisans into the city. Expanding parts of Liscor or even creating new villages to lower the rent issue—as well as establishing a maximum fee that a tenant may be charged.”

“But how—”

Krshia forestalled her, raising a furry finger.

“As for how, aside from the dungeon, I would request Antinium aid for building at low rates. They already make building cheap, yes? I do not expect the Hive to help for free—perhaps for concessions regarding the size of their Hive or allowing more Antinium aboveground? And—ending the bounty on certain monsters, such as Goblins. Would that not save the city money?”

That last part made Selys draw breath in sharply. She looked at Krshia and narrowed her eyes.

“You want Erin’s help, don’t you? You’re serious about this.”

“Have I given a sign that I was joking?”

Krshia returned Selys’ glance full of serious confidence. Selys crossed her arms warily.

“Did she talk with you about this?”

The Gnoll [Shopkeeper] grinned toothily at Selys.

“Believe it or not, some ideas can be my own, yes? This is a small…campaign. But I have the support of many of the Gnolls in Liscor, and I believe that if the Council were pressed to hold elections, I and perhaps other Gnolls might win the seats.”

They could do it. If they made it an election, they might do it! Selys knew Krshia was well-liked, and the Gnoll population in Liscor was at an all-time high. And Krshia’s ideas were good! Despite inner cynicism at the idea, Selys began to grow excited. Liscor’s Council would never allow it. Much less the army. But if they could do it…!

Then Selys had a thought. She looked at Krshia, confused.

“What do you need me for, Krshia?”

The Gnoll shook her head.

“Not much. Money is useful, but I and some of my friends are willing to put money behind our mouths. If you could donate a bit of gold, we could fund more gatherings with free food, perhaps rent a few taverns.”

Ah, so that was it. She’d gone about it in a roundabout way, but it came down to the same thing. For a second Selys got mad. Then she calmed down. It was a reasonable request. And this was coming from Krshia, for a cause Selys liked, rather than to buy a friend a dress or go partying. She was about to say yes. Then she hesitated. Her grandmother’s words echoed in her mind.

She didn’t have to give money for free, did she? Selys looked up at Krshia. The Gnoll was watching her. Carefully.

“I like your idea, Krshia. But I can’t just give money away for free. Say I do help you. I have some conditions.”

The Gnoll nodded slowly. She seemed ready, wary, but ready.

“Speak. What would you have, Selys?”

Selys didn’t know. And then she did. Of course, hadn’t she been moaning just this morning about it? She took a deep breath.

“If you win, I want a bigger Adventurer’s Guild. Twice as big, with more staff, more money for us as well. We can take on those roles you want if we have more money to buy updated bestiaries, hire trainers…”

Krshia’s brows crossed.

“That is an expensive proposition. I already have more things I wish to give Liscor, and I do not know Liscor’s budget, Selys. I would not wish to go back on my word.”

“I get that. But we need this for the dungeon tax and that monster parts request system, Krshia. And look at it this way. Grandma might back you if you agree. She’s been complaining to the Council for decades about the problem.”

Krshia thought about it. She muttered to herself, too quietly for Selys to hear. Then she looked up.

“I agree.”

Selys smiled in relief. Krshia held out a paw.

“I suppose this makes us allies. Working together towards a goal. Although you may simply give me money, and I will do what I can.”

The Drake grasped Krshia’s paw firmly and received a crushing grip in return.

“Agh! Too strong, Krshia! No way. I’m in this. I like your idea. And I think I can help you out even more. You need to force the Council to make this an election, don’t you?”

Krshia nodded heavily.

“This is the most complicated issue. I have discussed it with some others, but it is hard to convince the Council to do something they do not have to do. We were thinking of gathering support. Unless you have an idea in mind?”

Selys grinned. Now this was a job she could handle. Not as an [Heiress]—okay, partly as an [Heiress], but also as her main class. A [Receptionist].

“I can do you one better. Come with me. Uh, that is, if you can let your shop…?”

Krshia waved at the stall.

“No one will steal from it. Unless we’ll be gone for hours, it is fine, yes? Very well. I may need to hire someone to help me run my stall soon, however.”

She followed Selys down the street, calling at a Gnoll to tell her she was leaving. Selys saw the Gnoll wave back and wondered how many Gnolls would vote for Krshia if she asked for it. She glanced back at Krshia’s shop. It looked more prosperous now; it seemed the Gnoll had recovered some of her fortunes.

“You have enough money coming in now?”

“Oh yes. Business has been good. Better than it was before now that I have new Skills. And if that Octavia could provide me with more potions, and better quality, I could even think about opening a shop.”

“That’s great.”

Selys meant it. Krshia laughed, baring her teeth.

“So says the Drake with a legendary artifact and more gold than I have earned in my life.”

Selys blushed.

“It was luck. I didn’t—”

A paw touched her shoulder gently. Krshia smiled without rancor.

“Stop. Do not apologize for fortune. It was merely a joke.”

The Drake hesitated. Then she kept walking. She appreciated what Krshia had said. She’d sounded like Tekshia. But still, how did you start a conversation up after a line like that? Eventually, Selys remembered Octavia.

“What was Octavia asking you for, Krshia? It sounded like she wanted some…help.”

Krshia shook her head.

“That one manufactures her problems like potions. I do not care to get involved; I know a bad investment when I see one. Where are we going? The Watch Barracks?”

She’d spotted the iconic building down the street. Selys nodded. She led the way inside. There was a Drake at the desk. He looked up as Selys walked forwards.

“Can I help you, Miss?”

“Selys Shivertail. I’d like to see Watch Captain Zevara? If she’s not busy.”

The Drake sighed. He looked tired and disinclined to be helpful.

“The Watch Captain is very busy, Miss. If you’d like to wait, I can let her know you’re waiting. But I doubt—”

He cut off as Selys leaned over the desk. She grinned at him, a mimicry of a certain smile she’d seen Erin use now and then. But Selys had her own way of getting what she wanted now.

“Hey. Tell her it’s Selys. Selys Shivertail. The owner of the Heartflame Breastplate? Wall Lord Ilvriss returned it to me a few days ago.”

The Drake sat up. He blinked at Selys, and she saw his mouth open a bit. Some of the other [Guardsmen] glanced up. Krshia, standing beside Selys, grinned. The Drake stared at Selys, then he stood up.

“One second, Miss Shivertail?”

He was gone for half a minute. Then he came down the stairs, and Selys and Krshia went up. That was the thing about being a [Heiress]. And being rich, for that matter. Suddenly, everyone had time for you.

Still, time was not infinite, at least in Watch Captain Zevara’s office. The Drake made that very clear with a glare that made Selys’ stomach do a flip and fall on its back. She didn’t know how Erin was so flippant around Zevara. The Drake was impressive! Not only was she Oldblood, but she had Selys’ respect, not least because she was a female Watch Captain. Those were rare.

Selys admired Wing Commander Embria too, although they’d never really had a chance to talk. But it was weird. She was Relc’s daughter, and that was hard to fathom. Zevara cleared her throat.

“How can I help you, Miss Shivertail? Miss Silverfang?”

She was perplexed, but she heard Selys and Krshia out silently and patiently, tapping one claw on her desk and frowning. When Krshia had finished her outline—with Selys’ new idea included—Zevara leaned back in her chair.

“You want an election. Like…a democracy? That’s unheard of in Liscor. And only Pallass elects its Assembly of Crafts. Miss Krshia, do you think this really has a shot?”

The Gnoll frowned.

“If I did not think so, I would not have brought it up, Watch Captain. But I acknowledge it will be difficult. And yet—the election is the thing. If the Council can be persuaded to hold one, I believe I can win.”

She met Zevara’s eyes firmly. The Watch Captain frowned. She exhaled a plume of smoke. Selys noticed the window was open; it probably had to be with Zevara around.

“An election. You think I can…? Well, I actually can. Or at least, I can make it a big enough issue that the Council has to acknowledge it. But that opens every seat up on the Council. And my position as well—assuming they’d even agree to it.”

Selys and Krshia exchanged a worried glance. The Gnoll coughed.

“I understand this is an issue, Watch Captain. But my proposal would help the city. Would you consider it?”

Zevara shot them an amused glance. She sat up.

“Consider it? I’m halfway towards agreeing. If the Council wants to threaten my job, let them try. I’ve been petitioning them for more money, and they haven’t agreed. The Watch needs a full upgrade to everything, from weapons to armor to magical items. The siege and the dungeon prove that. We can’t rely on adventurers forever. If you can get me that money, I’ll help you take this to a democracy. And Ancestors help us all if that happens.”

Selys sucked in her breath. Krshia hesitated.

“That…may be a problem. Liscor is not unlimited in its wealth.”

The Watch Captain nodded.

“I know. But I need that budget. And I understand the Adventurer’s Guild needs more money as well. And your proposals to expand Liscor would solve a lot of domestic issues. If the problem is money…”

Both her eyes and Krshia’s darted sideways to Selys. The Drake [Heiress] held up her claws.

“Hey, I have money, but not enough money to pay for an entire city. We’d need someone with a lot of gold. Like, a lot. Or find a new way to get the city enough money.”

Krshia’s ears drooped slightly. Zevara sighed. Then, suddenly, she opened her eyes again. She spoke very slowly.

“I…do know someone who has a lot of gold to spare. But you and I would need to talk with him.”

She looked at Krshia. The Gnoll frowned, and then raised her eyebrows. Her expression cleared and she almost smiled.

“Ah. I think I know who you mean. That ties in nicely with my plans.”

Zevara’s voice was too-cool as she steepled her claws.

“Doesn’t it?”

Selys looked from face to face. The two older adults were giving each other that self-satisfied knowing look. Selys cleared her throat.

“Who do you mean?”

Krshia answered for Zevara with a low growl.

“Klbkch.”

Selys’ eyes bulged.

“Klbkch?”

Zevara reached into the cabinet behind her and rifled through the files. She extracted a piece of paper and stared at it, hiding it from Krshia and Selys’ view.

“His Hive, I mean. Yes…they could do a lot. I think.”

Selys wavered, trying to keep up with this sudden idea.

“Would he agree?”

Zevara looked up. She bit her lip.

“I can only ask. But before I do that…this is a risk, still. The army won’t like the idea of any kind of election. They might try to interfere. And the Council could well try to replace me if we can’t force an election. This is a risk. I might need to think on it. Give me a day or two, please.”

She looked up at Krshia. The Gnoll nodded, but Selys spotted her place to come in. Because she was on fire now. She’d found a use for both her money and what influence she had. She raised a claw. Both Krshia and Zevara looked at Selys. The [Receptionist] felt silly and lowered her claw. Then she pointed at Krshia before turning to Zevara.

“I don’t think we should wait. The Council usually replaces itself during the spring. Well, the election could take a while, so let’s do this now. Krshia, I’m on board with you. I’ll give you four hundred gold coins to jumpstart your campaign. And if Zevara agrees to help…I’ll let her borrow the Heartflame Breastplate for two weeks.”

Krshia’s eyes went round. Zevara’s eyes went even rounder. She half-rose from her chair, then sat down. Selys eyed her with satisfaction. The Watch Captain opened her mouth, caught herself, then coughed.

“Four weeks.”

“Three?”

Zevara nodded tightly. Selys smiled.

“Deal!”

She saw Zevara nod, but she had the distinct impression Zevara had just made a triumphant fist under the table. Krshia looked from face to face, grinning with pleasure. Zevara coughed a few times and cleared her throat. Then she rifled her papers unnecessarily.

“I’ll schedule an appointment. Klbkch’s off-duty for the next two days, but he might be able to fit in a meeting in his other capacity. I just need to wait for him to leave his Hive. As for other people to talk to, Olesm would be one. And perhaps…Erin Solstice. Unless, dead gods, this is her idea, isn’t it?”

She paled suddenly. Krshia and Selys both grinned and the Gnoll shook her head.

“No. For once it is ours. But Erin Solstice might help.”

“Or hinder. Still—damn, it’s a shame Wall Lord Ilvriss isn’t here. Because you could send her into the City Hall. We still could as a last resort. Although the Council might have my tail if I let her loose on them.”

The Watch Captain was frowning. So were Krshia and Selys, thinking the problem through, and what to say to Klbkch. But it was we now. They were in it together.

And as Selys watched the two older women she respected in the city besides her grandmother, she felt a buoyancy in her chest. She stopped worrying about the money in her apartment and, suddenly, wondered if she could persuade Zevara to hold off on the Heartflame Breastplate so she could lend it to the Flamewardens for a bit. After all, they might need more money. And the breastplate would look best on Zevara if she stood next to Krshia while they got her elected.

Suddenly, the world opened up. Selys realized something. This is what she wanted to do. Her worry, her confusion over becoming an adventurer, of how to use what she’d been given, disappeared. Because she wasn’t an adventurer. She didn’t want to be one. This was who she was. Why change that?

She was no [Mage]. She couldn’t change the weather, and she was no [Warrior] to swing a sword and bring down a monster. She couldn’t play a [Bard]’s song and captivate an audience or lead an army like a [General], at least not herself. But she could do all those thing indirectly.

She could hire an adventurer. She could bribe a crowd or fund a campaign. She could hire a damn army, or at least some [Mercenaries]. And she could make it rain gold. Or silver. That was probably more cost-effective. Selys looked at Zevara and Krshia, then she cleared her throat. They looked at her. A Gnoll who led her tribe in Liscor and a Watch Captain of a Drake city. And they waited for her to speak. Selys had a big smile on her face as her tail swished back and forth excitedly.

Swish, swish.

“Hey, do you know if I can buy land in the city? And, uh, how much does that cost? Also, Watch Captain Zevara, can I hire the City Watch? Or do I need to talk to adventurers? Because I could really use Relc’s help…”

After all, the breastplate was just the start.



[Heiress Level 11!]

[Skill – Everything Has a Price obtained!]

[Inheritance – Shadow of His Name obtained!]





6.18 H


[Martial Artist]. A term for people who use Skills and techniques designed for combat, be it self-defense, war, competition, or other activities. They differed from traditional [Warriors] in a simple way. While anyone could learn to use a sword, and there were indeed teachers of swordplay or soldiering, anyone who knew how to fight could be a [Warrior]. It was a broad term that applied to self-taught amateurs as well as those formally taught by experts.

But [Martial Artists] practiced a system, an evolution of a traditional fighting style refined over decades, centuries, and so on, until it was a culture unto itself. Until you could call the act of carrying out moves a form of art in itself. That was what being a [Martial Artist] meant. But it was a rare class in most parts of the world.

“After all, who fights with their fists? It’s not really viable, especially for humanoid races. No—even Drakes and Gnolls wouldn’t do that well. Think about it. You’re up against some [Warrior] with a sword. Even if it’s made of iron, the sword’s a lot longer than your arm. Plus, it’s made out of metal. I don’t care how sharp Drake claws are—you’d normally get skewered before you got in arm’s reach. That’s why [Fist Fighters], [Brawlers], and so on are normally just tavern toughs or drunks. It’s rare to see anyone use that kind of class outside of a city.”

Ceria was explaining the concept of [Martial Artists] to her team. She sat with them in an inn in Celum. It was called The Drunken Swordsman, and it was a fairly nice inn as they went. Ceria wouldn’t have necessarily stayed here when she was journeying with Calruz and Gerial in the original Horns of Hammerad; paying for their entire group would have wasted too much coin.

Now of course, her team could afford it, but what was surprising to Ceria was that the young woman sitting next to her was staying here of her own volition. No, everything about Garia Strongheart was surprising. Ceria shot a glance at the City Runner for the ninth time in as many minutes. She couldn’t help but stare.

Garia was thin. Or, thinner. She was still far from a half-starved girl or a [Lady] striving to wear the sleekest dress possible. But even so, the change in Garia from when Ceria had known her was astounding.

The City Runner had been, to put it politely, a bit sturdier than most. She’d given Ceria the impression she ate too much, but that was a misleading look because more than a bit of her extra weight had been muscle. Garia had been as strong as could be, but slow, which meant she’d been a low-level, if dependable, City Runner called on for heavy deliveries at a slower pace.

She’d been friends with Fals and Ryoka and had often been seen in the company of the two when Ceria had come across them in Celum. But that had been ages ago. Now?

She was thinner. Still not quite as thin as someone like Falene, who was practically the definition of austere elegance in how she presented herself, but closer to Yvlon in terms of size, albeit a tiny bit bulkier. But all that extra bulk was muscle, which meant that Garia Strongheart looked great. No, incredibly good. Ceria was surprised at how attractive Garia had become. The half-Elf paused for a second, wondering if her face had changed as well. Then she realized she was staring and coughed.

“Sorry.”

“No problem. Hey, can I get you anything to eat? It’s on me. Mister Timbor, can we get some drinks please? And some of your fries? Hey, you’re going to love this, Ceria.”

Garia turned and waved to a big [Innkeeper] helping wait the tables. Timbor waved back good-naturedly. Ceria blinked.

“You seem familiar with him.”

“Yeah? Well, I’m something of a regular. I’ve made Celum my home base. It’s close to my family’s home, and I’ve gotten a lot faster lately. And I’m earning a good bit more, so I can afford to stay here.”

The City Runner turned and flashed Ceria a smile. She was clearly excited, and chatty. She’d practically dragged Ceria to the inn, and the half-Elf had agreed, to satisfy her curiosity as much as anything else. She had to know what had happened to Garia. Besides, the only mission her team was on today was to do some work at the Adventurer’s Guild. It wasn’t as if they had to be in a hurry.

“That’s great to hear, Garia! Come on, pull up a seat and catch us up on your levels! Any new Skills? Don’t share if you don’t want to. We were just talking about…sorry, Ksmvr. Where was I?”

Ceria turned back to the Antinium. Ksmvr sat next to Yvlon across the table. Pisces, who had more space to himself and was leaning back in his chair, raised one eyebrow in amusement.

“I believe you were explaining to Comrade Ksmvr why [Martial Artists] were so rare, oh, Captain Ceria. Because hand-to-weapon combat is quite foolish, is that correct?”

He was eying Garia as well, but unlike Ceria, he wasn’t at all unobtrusive about it. Yvlon and Ksmvr were politely sipping from the drinks the [Barmaid] had just brought over—neither of them knew Garia as well as Ceria or Pisces. Ceria glared at Pisces as she lifted her drink to her lips.

“What? Yeah, I was. Do you have a problem with that, Pisces? It’s not hard to figure out. Weapons have reach, cutting power—and you can enchant them! True, some races have claws or sharp teeth. So what? We’re not animals. What kind of an idiot would use her fists to pick a fight with someone with a sword? Besides Calruz, that is?”

Pisces just kept smirking at Ceria. Ksmvr meanwhile politely raised one of his three good hands. The place where his fourth arm should have been was just a stump, healed but not regenerated. Sometimes Ceria worried about that. Ksmvr was an outcast from his Hive, but surely they could do something about his missing arm? He’d assured her it wouldn’t ‘impede his combat effectiveness unduly’, but that wasn’t really the point.

“As a matter of fact, Captain Ceria, most of the Antinium do not fight with weapons. Workers may arm themselves with bows, but aside from the Armored Antinium, all other types of Antinium Soldiers only fight with their natural appendages.”

“Ah. Uh. I didn’t mean—obviously the Antinium are an exception, Ksmvr.”

“We do practice exceptionally straightforward and somewhat high-casualty forms of combat, Captain Ceria. I take your point.”

The half-Elf turned bright red. It was worse because Ksmvr was so polite about it. Yvlon shook her head with a slight smile.

“Ceria didn’t try to insult your species, Ksmvr, I’m sure. But she’s right that other species don’t have, uh, the Antinium’s skill at fist-fighting. Your species has four arms and shells. We fragile Humans have weak skin and two hands. It’s not a good idea for us.”

“Indeed.”

Pisces was sitting up in his chair. He nodded towards Garia with his slight smirk. Ceria shot him a warning glance, but he was too far away to kick.

“As I understand it, [Martial Artist] classes are practically unheard of in most continents. It is difficult to implement it as a fighting method across armies of [Soldiers], and it carries several demerits, which Ceria has kindly listed. However, as I recall, the people of the Drath Archipelago as well as some Minotaurs have that class. Miss Garia appears to have picked up the class somewhere. Which might be the reason for her dramatic weight loss. You look quite fetching, Miss Strongheart, if I might say so. I congratulate you on the change.”

“Pisces!”

Yvlon and Ceria both snapped at the [Necromancer], but Garia just laughed, and that at least was the same as Ceria remembered. The boisterous young woman reached over and slapped Pisces on the back; he nearly smacked the table with the front of his face.

“Whoops, sorry, Pisces! I’m not offended, Ceria, uh, Miss Yvlon. I’m glad you said something! It’s the first thing most people say to me—the ones who aren’t polite like Ceria, that is. Isn’t it incredible?”

“It is.”

Ceria gave up as Pisces shook his robes and the wine he’d ordered slid off the enchanted cloth and onto the floorboards. A passing [Barmaid] gave him a dirty look, which he ignored. The half-Elf looked at Garia now that she’d broached the subject.

“How on earth did you change so much, Garia? If you don’t mind me asking? It’s a Skill, right? From your [Martial Artist] class?”

Garia chuckled, delighted at the attention.

“That’s right! I actually got the class nearly a month and a half ago. And the Skill I got—[Weight Control] was one of the first I received! Level 6, if you can believe it! I’ll tell you all about it. But here come the fries! Take a look at this!”

One of The Drunken Swordsman’s servers had come over with a plate of fried wedges of potato. French fries, not nearly as thin as Erin would slice them, but unmistakably the same. There was even some ketchup with the fries. Pisces brightened up and levitated two towards him before the plate was even set down. Ceria murmured in appreciation and took one. It was salted very pleasantly and the ketchup was very good, if too sweet for her taste. Garia beamed.

“Do you like it? It’s a new addition to Celum! They’re called ‘french fries’, but we just call them ‘fries’ for short! Aren’t they a great snack?”

“Mhm. They’re quite nice. These ones could use a bit more crisp for my taste, though.”

Yvlon commented as she politely ate a fry in the singular. Ksmvr had taken nearly as many as Pisces, and the two began to devour the large platter with Garia’s help. The city Runner looked shocked and a bit crestfallen.

“Wait, you’ve eaten these before? I thought they’d be a huge shock! They came out just last week, and I haven’t seen you all around in Celum. You’re still at The Wandering Inn in Liscor, right? I’ve been meaning to stop over there and talk to Erin, but I keep putting it off.”

All four Horns of Hammerad smiled. Ceria coughed as she turned to Garia.

“Actually, Garia, we’ve been eating these fries for months now. Or didn’t you hear? These came from Liscor. From Erin, actually.”

“What?”

The City Runner was stunned. Ceria nodded.

“I guess it is new in Celum, although some people do come through to the inn regularly. They must have copied her recipe. Took them long enough; you can get fries in any tavern in Liscor if you ask. It’s great with a drink of ale.”

“No way. I thought that one of the [Innkeepers] here had invented it and Erin copied it! I should have visited…they never said it was from Erin! What about Miss Agnes? Her inn was partnered with Erin’s, wasn’t it? Only, last time I visited, it wasn’t doing so well. Although her husband is up and on his feet these days.”

Garia shot the [Innkeeper] named Timbor a confused look. He was a big fellow. Pisces smirked unpleasantly.

“I believe that’s because they have a particular grudge against Erin Solstice, Miss Strongheart. As I recall, your [Innkeeper] was one of the ones who upset Erin in particular.”

“What? But Timbor’s a great innkeeper. He’s had me over since—you’re sure? I need to talk to Erin.”

Ceria drummed her fingers on the table and snatched one of Pisces’ fries as it floated past her face. He scowled at her.

“If you do, watch out for the Hobgoblin staying at her inn. He’s quite friendly, but he hates people screaming at him.”

“Hob—hold on, how much have I missed? Did that little Goblin, er, Rags, turn into a huge one?”

“Oh—no. What happened was…”

It was strange for Ceria to recount all that had happened to Garia. After all, the City Runner had known Erin through Ryoka. But it had been in a peripheral sense; she’d never been at the heart of the drama in Erin’s inn like the Horns of Hammerad, and she’d missed a lot of action. The City Runner listened with mouth agape as she heard the stories. Face-Eater Moths. Raskghar. The siege. Goblin heroes and death. Zel Shivertail, the legend.

“Dead gods. And I thought I’d changed. But one look at your team tells me…I can’t quite recall if we’ve been introduced. I knew the Horns had changed; I saw you during the siege of Liscor—I mean, the one with the Face-Eater Moths. And I heard about Lord Tyrion’s army and the Goblin Lord, but I wasn’t near a scrying orb for that. I’ll have to pay to see a recording if there’s one available. I’m sorry if I haven’t introduced myself before. Garia Strongheart.”

She stood up. Yvlon and Ksmvr did likewise. The [Wounded Warrior] smiled slightly as she held out a gauntleted hand. It was bad manners to eat with her gauntlets on, but the woman was doing so anyways. Ceria had noticed Yvlon wore her armor—at least her gauntlets and armguards—at all times. To hide her damaged arms? Even when she took the main breastplate on, the arm-section remained.

Then Ceria wondered if the Free Antinium’s gels would help with her arms as well. She hadn’t complained about her injuries of late, but that was because she couldn’t feel her arms. Yvlon shook Garia’s hand, smiling, and neither commented on her etiquette.

“I have seen you before, Miss Garia. But I can’t say we’ve ever talked that much.”

“Garia, please. It’s a pleasure to meet you, Yvlon.”

“And I am Ksmvr. Hello. I am one of the Antinium, but I am not hostile towards you at the moment, Miss Garia. So please do not fear for your life.”

Ksmvr held out one of his hands. Garia blinked, but didn’t even miss a beat as she shook it. Ceria groaned.

“Don’t mind Ksmvr, Garia—and he is an Antinium, but—”

“Don’t worry. I met that other one. Klbkch? And Pawn. Ryoka’s told me about them, so I’m not scared. And I hear Antinium have been in Celum before. Honestly, I was a bit worried we’d have people panicking, but they’ve seen, uh, Ksmvr before?”

“Once or twice. There was a baseball game…”

Ceria looked around. Ksmvr was indeed getting a lot of looks, but the Antinium had been spotted in Celum a few times before. Still, if Ksmvr were alone, Ceria would have bet people would have panicked. Another thing to worry about.

“Anyways. Where were we? Oh, right. Erin’s inn is one thing, Garia. But how in the name of tree sap did you…”

The half-Elf waved at Garia in general. The City Runner laughed again. She seemed so happy. And she was clearly doing well; Ceria distinctly recalled Garia being worried about her job and how she was doing before.

“Like I said, Ceria. I got the class. [Martial Artist]. Level 14! I’ve been leveling like crazy. No one can believe how fast I’m shooting up, but I’m training every chance I get between runs. My weight’s just one change I’ve had. Look at this!”

She lifted her light tunic. Ceria blinked as she saw a very taut stomach and toned abdominal muscles. And something else she’d seen on Calruz when the Minotaur went shirtless. A six-pack of muscles.

“Oh.”

Yvlon sounded admiring. Ksmvr leaned over, blank.

“I do not understand what this configuration of flesh means. Comrade Pisces, please explain.”

“It shows high abdominal strength, Ksmvr. And I realize the distinction is lost on you, but I find it a quite attractive view.”

Pisces leaned over for a better look. Garia turned red, and Yvlon reached over to punch him.

“No, don’t!”

The Runner girl looked pleased as she lowered her shirt. That was another change. Garia would never have been so bold. Ceria blinked as Pisces edged back from Yvlon, and Ksmvr prodded his own stomach.

“So you’re really trying to be a [Martial Artist], Garia? Aren’t you a [Runner]?”

Garia took a longer drink and nodded.

“That’s right. But the two classes have great synergy. After all, both are about the body. I’m hoping I can consolidate the classes. But I have no idea what class I’d get, and I’m running out of ways to improve. I do practice punches every day—and kicks as well as this dodging routine I learned—but I’m just dying to meet Ryoka again. I want to see her face—and get her to teach me how to do some flips!”

“Ryoka taught you how to do those punches? Now it makes sense.”

Yvlon sighed and rolled her eyes. Ceria nodded too.

“Of course. She took both you and Calruz on, remember, Yvlon?”

“As if I could forget. That was one way to meet her.”

The [Warrior] rubbed her cheek ruefully. Garia smiled.

“I was there when she took Calruz on with her fists, remember?That’s not something I’m ever going to do, but when she visited my parent’s farm, Ryoka also taught me how to do a basic punch. She wanted me to defend myself. Honestly, I didn’t see much point in it, but she did some incredible tricks as well, so I thought—why not? My dad was all hyped up after her visit too. He practically forced me to try her punches the day after she left, and then spar. I don’t know if you’ve met him—”

“Wailant Strongheart? Doesn’t he run a really productive farm around Celum? I remember hearing about how productive his fields are.”

Yvlon looked curious. Ceria blinked at her.

“How do you know that, Yvlon?”

“I do take an interest in that kind of thing, Ceria. My family runs a number of businesses. He runs his farm practically by himself, or so I heard. Dangerous, even for a farm located close to Celum. But I take it he’s good at fighting?”

Garia smiled ruefully.

“Dad’s not alone. But you’re right. He can take care of himself. So can my mother. She’s a [Green Mage].”

“That explains it. Is your father a former adventurer, then? A soldier?”

“No. He was a [Pirate].”

Yvlon choked on her drink. Ksmvr politely patted her on the back.

“You are drowning, Yvlon.”

“Thanks, Ksmvr. A [Pirate]? You don’t hear about that every day!”

“No. But that’s an entire story…anyways, my dad’s still really good with a sword. And his fists. He kept egging me to become an adventurer and learn how to fight. I’m no good with a weapon, though. After Ryoka left, he made me do a hundred of her punches exactly like she did, and then tried to get me to spar. Normally I can’t even touch him, but he kept egging me on. And then I threw one of Ryoka’s punches and got lucky and—”

Garia spread her hands helplessly. Ceria winced. Pisces frowned. He leaned over to Ceria.

“Ceria. Correct me if I’m mistaken, but wasn’t Garia in the possession of the, ah, [Enhanced Strength] Skill?”

“Yup.”

Pisces winced. So did Yvlon.

“Ouch.”

Ksmvr looked up.

“Ah. That Skill is a more potent version of [Lesser Strength], is it not? I thought it was difficult to acquire for [Warriors], though.”

Yvlon dabbed at her mouth with a handkerchief.

“Rare, yes. I wish I had it. But it’s more common for [Farmers].”

“And I was one until I quit. It’s one of the reasons I was so big growing up, or so my mother always said. And I got a solid hit on my dad during that sparring session.”

Garia waved a hand. Ksmvr stared blankly at her. Ceria smiled slightly.

“Ksmvr, it’s not a complete comparison, but remember Calruz? Imagine him hitting you as hard as he could. He’s probably a bit stronger, but I remember a guy with [Enhanced Strength] nearly knocked him flat in a bar brawl one time.”

“Ah. I see. The potential for bodily harm rises. Commendable.”

Garia shook her head.

“I didn’t hurt my dad that bad. But I did knock him out. It was a lucky shot to the head, but still. I can’t tell you how good that felt! I’ve never so much as touched him when he didn’t want me to. That night I gained the [Martial Artist] class. And I decided that if I could knock my father out, a good punch would do just as well for any [Bandit] I met. Or monster! So I kept practicing off-and-on. And then I got to Level 6 and I realized what my class could do for me.”

She indicated her body. Ceria frowned.

“So you got a Skill, and you could just lose weight? Like that? Isn’t that insanely powerful?”

Yvlon nodded.

“I know dozens of [Ladies] who’d kill for a Skill like that, Garia. Literally kill.”

“Well, they can learn to do a few punches and see if they get it. I don’t think it’s a powerful Skill by the standards of my class, you see. It just helps me lose weight, which is what I wanted. I guess that’s why I got it?”

She looked around the table for confirmation. Pisces nodded. Somehow he’d signaled for another plate of fries, unabashedly putting it on Garia’s tab.

“Indeed. It’s a well-known phenomenon that classes and Skills are acquired often in line with the user’s desires. I myself don’t have any Skills involving the summoning of flesh-based undead, for instance.”

“Silver and steel, Pisces. Of all the things to say while we’re eating.”

Yvlon glared. Pisces raised a hand.

“I merely bring it up as a point of reference. I much prefer skeletons to zombies, you see. Rotting flesh is so…unrefined.”

“It also carries disease. I am contributing this fact to the conversation.”

“Thank you, Ksmvr.”

The Antinium beamed. Garia looked around.

“I don’t know about all that. But I’m just so happy I got the class. It’s not the only Skill I got, of course—I learned a few techniques too! I can do a really fast kick, I have a dodging Skill—and I’m a lot faster on my feet! But that’s just because of the weight loss. I can’t wait to see what other Skills I get, though. So I’m learning all I can about my class. But Ceria and Pisces are right. There’s practically no one with this class in Izril.”

“Huh. So what will you do?”

Garia shrugged.

“I’m trying to see if there are any [Martial Artists] or people with similar classes among the adventurers on the continent. There probably are, and I’ll see if I can talk to them and if they’re willing to share. Aside from that, I do my research. [Mages] know a lot, you see, and experienced travellers from Chandrar are helpful. If I could go to a larger city or a port…oh, and you’re wrong about [Martial Artists], Ceria. Just a tiny bit.”

“Oh? How?”

“Weapons are actually part of the fighting styles [Martial Artists] use. You see, it’s about the attitude and…discipline? The point is, some use hands and feet, but there are entire styles that take other body parts into account. Also, there are groups of [Martial Artists] in Chandrar too, Pisces. There’s this famous nation called Pomle, and I was trying to see if I could send a [Message] spell there, but they don’t even have a Mage’s Guild.”

Garia sighed. Pisces sniffed.

“I knew that. I was simply referring to the practice in a broader cultural sense, not minorities by continent—”

“Shut up, Pisces. She’s more of an expert than you.”

Ceria smiled at Garia, privately delighted. The City Runner grinned at Pisces.

“Well, I have done my research. But if you know anything, Pisces, I’d love to find out more. There really aren’t any experts around. Oh, there are [Brawlers], and I’ve heard of [Fist Fighters], but they’re completely different. I did hear a rumor about a…[Mage] in Pallass? He apparently trains his body. And doesn’t Erin’s inn have a door to Pallass?”

She looked hopefully at Pisces. So did Ceria, although the comment wiggled at a part of her memory. But she didn’t keep her ear to the door like Pisces did with his constant spying. She was more of an expert on adventuring and, uh…half-Elves. He nodded at last.

“I believe I know the [Mage] you’re referring to, Miss Strongheart.”

“Garia.”

“Miss Stronghear—”

The young woman reached over and poked Pisces. His chair rocked a bit.

“Garia.”

Yvlon was smiling. Pisces blinked twice.

“…Garia. The Drake in question is known as Grimalkin. I’m familiar with a few particulars about him; he didn’t attend Wistram, but he did visit the academy…hm. He graduated from Fissival, but his, ah, unique beliefs make him a pariah in the magical community. However, I believe his theories are sound, if excessive. Ceria, you might remember him. He’s the one who challenged an Archmage to a duel.”

The half-Elf snapped her fingers.

“Him? I remember that!”

Yvlon was astonished.

“Someone challenged an Archmage of Wistram?”

The others leaned forwards. Ceria nodded.

“Two years after I left Wistram with Pisces. I remember hearing all about it. He lost, didn’t he?”

Pisces sniffed.

“Of course. He isn’t a high enough leveled [Mage] to beat any of the current Archmages. I believe he was up against Archmage Feor, a bad matchup, given Feor’s extensive abilities to control a duel.”

“Right, right. Good thing he wasn’t up against Amerys, though. She does not hold back.”

Pisces’ lips twitched as Yvlon, Ksmvr, and Garia all looked blank.

“He might have done surprisingly well. He did land a hit that nearly shattered Feor’s barrier spell. Apparently he suffered a bit of the impact. I would have quite liked to have seen that.”

So would Ceria. And she was impressed too; she knew how good an Archmage’s barrier spells probably were.

“So he’s some kind of fighting [Mage]? That might be what Garia wants.”

Pisces sighed.

“Alas, I think ‘physical mage’ is all too apt a term for Grimalkin. He emphasizes physical enchantment spells. Which means he can fight on par with a Gold-ranked [Warrior] with ease, but as a consequence he neglects other forms of magic. His motto is that a [Mage] should be able to keep up with [Warriors]. I admire the concept myself, as I combine aspects of fencing combat with my spellcraft in battle, but I doubt Grimalkin is that acquainted with the kind of fighting Miss…with what Garia desires. [Martial Artists] use Skills and battle techniques, not spells, and they can rival even powerful spells at high-level.”

He indicated his rapier as he spoke. Ceria was nodding, but she saw Garia looked disappointed. Ksmvr waved a hand.

“Comrade Pisces. Comrade Pisces, please explain to me. How powerful would you rate a [Martial Artist] compared to a regular [Warrior]?”

“Well—”

“I’ll answer that, Ksmvr. I am the expert here after all.”

Yvlon smoothly interrupted Pisces. He sighed loudly, but took a drink as she took over. That was actually a good sign, as was the way Yvlon didn’t glare at him in any seriousness. The Horns were easy around each other, and Ceria could see Garia glancing from face to face as she sipped from her drink, listening.

Yvlon shot Ksmvr a smile as the Antinium turned to face her. They had a good connection. If Ceria could sometimes sense what Pisces was thinking from their shared past, she thought that Yvlon liked Ksmvr, and she was the only person who Ksmvr didn’t address with any degree of formality.

“You see, Ksmvr, it’s a hard question. [Warriors] like me wear armor, but I do know [Martial Artists] usually go without. It’s more of a question of how rich and what level we are. You see, at low levels, the [Warrior] wins if they’re equipped right. We can wear armor and use steel weapons. Bare hands and feet aren’t much use even with some Skills. And the problem continues at higher levels.”

“Ah. I see. Your Sword of Weight and my Forceshield would be powerful weapons a [Martial Artist] lacks.”

Ksmvr indicated the sword at Yvlon’s side and the small bucker he carried. Yvlon nodded.

“Exactly. But it’s not all clear-cut. For instance, [Martial Artists] have to train, and not all [Warriors] do. I practice my swings, but I don’t do the…”

She waved her arms vaguely. Ksmvr copied her. Garia shook her head, amused, but didn’t break in.

“…So maybe [Martial Artist] is a stronger class than general [Warriors]? It might be like having a [Blademaster] class in terms of quality. And their Skills are quite good. But we get enchanted gear. So it’s more even at higher-levels. One thing’s for sure, though. Take away a Gold-rank [Warrior]’s gear and give him just steel and pit him against a [Martial Artist] of the same level, and I know who I’m betting on.”

Ksmvr nodded a few times. Then he raised his hand.

“To clarify, which one would you bet on?”

Everyone laughed at that. Garia called for another round as Ceria got up to pee. She had to chuckle over Ksmvr. But someone stopped her on the way back from the toilet.

“Miss. Excuse me, Miss.”

The [Innkeeper], Timbor, halted Ceria. He gave her a wide and slightly nervous smile as he indicated her team.

“That, uh, that thing with you. That’s one of them, isn’t it? An Antinium? From Liscor?”

“That’s right.”

The man licked his lips as Ceria frowned at him.

“He’s not going to do anything, is he? I know Garia, and she’s a good girl. Er, and I know your team’s the Horns of Hammerad, right? But one of the Antinium…it’s safe, it won’t act up, right? You can promise me that?”

Ceria glared.

“Ksmvr can control himself. He’s an adventurer.”

“Right, right. I only wanted to know…”

Timbor backed up, for all he was quite a bit taller than Ceria. She debated freezing his feet to the ground, and then shook her head. If she hadn’t met Ksmvr, Pawn, and Klbkch, she might have felt the same way.

“He’s quite nice. Don’t worry. We’re not staying the night. We have an inn. Ksmvr hasn’t killed anyone there yet.”

The [Innkeeper] flushed a bit.

“Of course. Look, I didn’t mean to say…”

Ceria let him go at that. The others were laughing as she came back. Garia was telling them stories of her new adventures on the road.

“…and that’s when I realized I really was a lot better! Fals came running back up to me, and then he just stared at the dead thing on the road. He couldn’t believe it! I was going to keep running, but it turned out the bounty on the monster was worth more than my delivery!”

Yvlon chuckled at that. Pisces leaned over to Ceria as he smiled.

“She punched a Rockdevil to death.”

“What?”

The [Ice Mage] nearly spat out her drink. She stared at her full mug, and then at the [Barmaid] filling Pisces’ tankard.

“Hold on, we didn’t order—”

“Mister Timbor sent a free round around.”

“Oh.”

Ceria felt a bit bad about her sharp tongue now. Then she felt better because it was a free drink. Pisces raised his eyebrows as he watched Garia showing Yvlon and Ksmvr a scar.

“Trouble?”

“No, actually. The [Innkeeper] was just worried about Ksmvr being Ksmvr.”

“Ah.”

“That reminds me. When we go to the Adventurer’s Guild, let’s be careful. Because they have weapons, and I’d hate for one of them to react badly to Ksmvr.”

“I quite agree. Although, is your guild in Celum that dangerous?”

Ceria made a face. She tried not to drink too much ale before a job, but this was free. She’d have to sober up a bit. Maybe she’d grab a sobering potion at Octavia’s before she left.

“Not really? But you never know. Look, it’s been a while, but Yvlon and I know most of the groups around here. Let’s head over after this. And when you get there, try not to mention the undead…”

She saw Pisces nod. Garia was turning to her as he sat back up in his chair.

“So Ceria! Erin’s doing well, or better, I guess. I’ll drop by and visit her. And little Mrsha too! But have you seen Ryoka around? I’m dying to talk to her, but no one’s seen her in Celum for ages! Is she running errands around the Drake cities?”

Ceria stopped drinking. She looked up. The smile faded from Yvlon’s lips. Pisces looked up as he ate one of the remaining cold fries.

“Ryoka? We haven’t seen her, Garia. Not for a long while.”

“What? I thought she was in Liscor! What about Mrsha? She was looking after her!”

The Runner was shocked. Ceria shook her head. She looked at Yvlon and remembered the day Ryoka had disappeared.

Regrika Blackpaw. Her mysterious mage friend. Her chasing after Ryoka—

She gave Garia a truncated version of the story. The City Runner shook her head.

“And she just left? No one told me!”

She pounded the table, making the cups and plates jump. Ceria eyed her.

“You wouldn’t have been able to help, Garia. Believe me—we ran into Regrika or whoever that Gnoll really was. She took out a Gold-rank adventurer like that.”

She snapped her fingers. Yvlon nodded.

“Ryoka had some kind of connection to her. She left before we could get answers, but there’s a bit of ill will, Garia. Griffon Hunt, the Halfseekers, not to mention Liscor’s City Watch, Zel Shivertail, that Wall Lord Ilvriss…all of them wanted to talk to Ryoka. If she comes back, she’ll have some explaining to do.”

Pisces nodded. His tone was suddenly pensive as he leaned back in his chair.

“I believe the circumstances around Miss Griffin are…complicated. One thing is for certain, however. She is nowhere near Liscor. Nor do I believe she ran south. That would prove unwise.”

“Because the Blood Fields are active?”

The [Necromancer] blinked.

“Hm. Of course. Besides, Erin did indicate she’d run north. It is surprising you haven’t heard news of her, Garia.”

Garia folded her arms and closed her eyes.

“Maybe I was listening in the wrong places. I thought she was in Liscor. You know, semi-retired and looking after Mrsha? She had a lot of gold. If she went north…I’ll ask Fals. Or I can put in a request through the Guild if Ryoka’s still running. I want to see her. And if she’s north, I can do a long run.”

“How far do you run these days?”

Ceria blinked at Garia. The City Runner smiled a bit.

“A lot farther than I used to, Ceria. Farther, faster…and I can defend myself. I still can’t handle people with arrows or the dangerous kinds of monsters, but I can usually outrun anything. And I’ve taken care of myself since then. I’m not the Garia from before. I wish I’d learned this years ago. Maybe I would have been on the track to becoming a Courier by now, not Persua. Although now half the male Runners in the Guild keep asking me if I’d like to go running with them. Which they didn’t do before I lost weight, but they seem to think I can’t remember two months ago. They’re annoying, and some of Persua’s old friends are mean. Still, I’m glad she’s gone.”

The half-Elf had to agree.

“No one’s bothering you from her gang?”

Garia waved a hand, frowning slightly.

“Oh, Claudeil and Toriska vanished, and I think they got sick of her. Persua had other friends, but she lost almost all her clique after she got in trouble. I’m fine, really.”

Ceria smiled to hear it. The half-Elf downed the rest of her mug and then she got up from her chair.

“We’re not the same either, Garia. It’s been a long time since we were in Celum. For work, I mean. But we are better. The Horns are back.”

Even if Calruz is in jail. Even if he’s going to die. Ceria paused at that bleak thought. She shook her head.

“I’d love to talk to you tonight. But we did come here to do a job, so…”

“Of course. I shouldn’t have kept you. Hey, why don’t we meet at The Wandering Inn for dinner? If Erin’s made fries, what else has she done? I’d love to find out!”

Garia got up. Ceria nodded.

“If we don’t have an overnight request at the guild, I’d love to. We’ll send word. Or stop by at the Runner’s Guild.”

“Sounds good. And hey, Ceria, Yvlon, all of you. If you need something delivered, feel free to ask at the guild. They can get in touch with me even if I’m on a delivery. I’m still not as fast as Ryoka, but I’m the best City Runner in the area now.”

“You?”

The City Runner smiled at them. Ceria had never seen that look on her face. It was proud, triumphant, and for a second Ceria forgot the old Garia. Then the young woman turned.

“I’ve got to go practice. I’ll see you tonight hopefully!”

And then she was gone. Ceria looked at her companions. Yvlon looked thoughtful, Pisces and Ksmvr were busy eating the last of the fries. The half-Elf shook her head. She noticed Timbor, the [Innkeeper], lingering nearby as they left. He was staring at them, or maybe just at Ksmvr? But he said nothing as the Horns made their way into the street.

“Whoof. I drank too much. What was that, three mugs?”

Ceria muttered as she left The Drunken Swordsman. Yvlon steadied her with one hand. The [Warrior] didn’t look at all tipsy, but then she’d had some watered wine and then rosewater tea for her drinks.

“You need to sober up. Or pray our destination’s a ways away.”

“If the request is a day or two away…gah. I’ll be fine.”

Pisces wrinkled his nose as he brushed crumbs off his spotless, white robes.

“Ah, the most tiresome aspect of adventuring. Can we choose a request closer to Celum? I would prefer to exterminate monsters and recline in comfort tonight.”

Ceria mock-glared at Pisces.

“We don’t get to choose the jobs, Pisces. Well, we do, but the best paying ones aren’t fun for exactly that reason. Besides, you’d better get used to this if you want to continue with us. We need to make a name for ourselves now we’re done with Liscor and the dungeon. Or we’ll never make Gold-rank.”

The [Necromancer] sighed, but he didn’t argue. Yvlon tsked softly as she walked with Ceria down the street. It was a familiar route for her and Ceria. Pisces and Ksmvr trailed them. The Antinium was getting a lot of looks now. Ceria just hoped no one would call for the Watch.

“Captain Ceria, may I ask a question?”

“Yes, Ksmvr. You don’t need to ask.”

“Thank you. When you say we are ‘done with Liscor’, do you mean we will be travelling away from Liscor? Will we not stay around Miss Erin’s inn?”

The question brought Ceria and Yvlon up short. They turned to look at Ksmvr. Then they shot a glance at Pisces. He shrugged.

“I defer to your judgment, Captain Ceria, Comrade Yvlon. You are the senior adventurers as you constantly remind me.”

Yvlon sighed.

“I like Erin’s inn. But even with a door to Invrisil—especially since you can’t take more than two or three people per day—we’ll have to leave her inn eventually. We can stay in the area and visit often, but I think we’ll have to say goodbye at some point like the other Gold-rank teams.”

Ksmvr nodded a few times, then had a thought.

“Oh. I believe Erin will cry.”

The half-Elf rubbed at her head.

“She will. Dead gods, that will be painful. We don’t have to face that just yet, though. Like I said, we’re not at Gold-rank yet. Falene made that clear, along with those damn Ashfire Bees.”

Pisces leaned forwards. The flow of traffic on Celum’s street had practically stopped. People were staring at Ksmvr. He was staring back with interest.

“So our current objective is…?”

“Get more artifacts. Get to Invrisil and call in whatever favor Ryoka bought for us. Uh…find Ryoka? Maybe. Level up a bit. I’m Level 28. If I could hit Level 30…I’d love to gain a new class instead of [Wounded Warrior]. Something actually strong, like Ylawes’ [Knight] class. I feel like the weakest link sometimes.”

Yvlon grimaced as she flexed one arm. Pisces eyed it silently.

“I happen to agree with that. We could certainly use some refinement of our existing tactics as well. I admit my Bone Horrors aren’t at the level I desire. Yet. And I need new bones. I’ve lost all but the components for one Bone Horror after the last one was incinerated.”

Ceria shook her head as she turned the street. The Adventurer’s Guild was only a block away.

“Is that humility I hear, Pisces?”

“Merely common sense, Springwalker. Or don’t you agree?”

“I agree. Totally. I have [Ice Wall] and [Frozen Armor] now, but those are defensive spells. Pretty good ones; I’m miles ahead of old me. But until I can throw [Ice Lance] around like my old master, I’m only good at locking down opponents. And when I do learn the spell, you’d better watch out! Because then I’ll be—”

“Still considerably weaker than Falene, Revi, Typhenous, or Moore?”

“Shut up, Pisces.”

Ceria irritably kicked at Pisces. But he [Flash Stepped] out of the way. She balefully eyed him as he smirked at her.

“Come to think of it, aren’t you in the same boat? You don’t have any offensive spells past Tier 2. And your rapier isn’t much good even when you set it on fire. Your Bone Horrors do all the work, and they’re surprisingly fragile.”

He sniffed at her.

“I’m refining them, Springwalker. Or do you think it’s easy to design undead? It is not. And since I cannot use traditional undead forms like skeletons, much less humanoid corpses, I must design new Bone Horrors from scratch. Additionally, the cost of animating a Bone Horror is considerable. If I maintained them like normal [Necromancers]…”

Yvlon scowled.

“You’d have an army. How many can you raise?”

The aforementioned [Necromancer] hesitated.

“Well, if I needed to…you are aware [Necromancers] and [Summoners] are related in discipline, yes? Only, the undead are permanent constructs while [Summoners] like Miss Revi use temporary beings that are generally more potent or diverse. So in theory, if I were trying, I could raise quite a number of, er, low-level undead. Zombies. Ghouls. Skeletons. But I fear that method leads to circular patterns. I would need to constantly acquire more undead as I expended them. You see, the undead thrive on death magic, so they would need to generate it to avoid me paying the cost in mana myself…”

“And then you’d unleash them on a village to gain more, and we’d have to hunt you down. I get the idea.”

Yvlon sighed. She shook her head.

“Fine. Forget I asked. Your Bone Horrors are strong enough even if you can only summon a few. And I like you more when it’s just those.”

“Why Yvlon, I was unaware of your positive sentiments. I return it quite happily.”

Pisces smirked. Yvlon rolled her eyes. And Ceria realized someone hadn’t spoken up recently. She looked back.

“Ksmvr? What’s wrong?”

The Antinium was trailing behind the other three, looking at the ground. He looked up and opened his mandibles. A woman walking out of the shop turned white as she saw him.

“Monster! H-help! It’s a—”

“Oh, shut up.”

Ceria pushed her aside. She pulled Ksmvr forwards gently. The Antinium clicked his mandibles softly as Yvlon and Pisces looked back.

“Ksmvr, what’s the matter?”

“Nothing, Yvlon, Captain Ceria. I am merely ruminating on my despair. You see, I am quite useless. And Yvlon’s statement about her being the weakest link is fundamentally incorrect; I am clearly the weakest and most inept of the team. I tender my apologies and crushing guilt to the team.”

The other Horns looked at Ksmvr. Then they exchanged glances. Ceria coughed.

“Hey, Ksmvr, that’s not true…”

“I appreciate your lies, Captain Ceria. But the facts do not lie. I am the lowest-leveled among the team by far. I have not even hit Level 20. Whereas Comrade Pisces is now in excess of Level 30, and both you and Yvlon are closing in on Level 30, which is a mark of true ability.”

Ceria bit her lip. That was true. Level 30 was the point where you really started standing out from the crowd. She’d been fantasizing over what she might get at Level 30 for a Skill—or maybe a rare spell. It was amazing how fast she’d leveled since she’d first met Ryoka back in Albez. Then, she’d barely been Level 23.

Gaining six levels in a few months was fast leveling at this stage. Even if Erin was…well, she didn’t count. And [Mages] at Level 30 or higher were nothing to sneeze at. Come to think of it—Ceria eyed Pisces. If he didn’t have the restrictions placed on him by Liscor’s and Celum’s laws regarding undead, could he have a small army of undead following him around like he’d said?

But Ksmvr was the priority to cheer up right now. Pisces placed a hand on Ksmvr’s shoulder in an uncharacteristic display of warmth.

“Ah, Ksmvr. Don’t despair over your lack of levels. I understand the Antinium level slowly. You should regard your inferiority not as a mark of failure but as a byproduct of being in the company of the truly gifted.”

“That is true. I am quite inferior.”

The [Necromancer] sighed.

“That is not quite what I…one’s competence does not merely reside in their level, Ksmvr. In time you will rise to something approaching my competence. I am sure you will eventually outstrip Springwalker and Miss Byres.”

Both of them glared at Pisces, but he was doing his best. The [Necromancer] paused as if he’d just had a thought. He turned to Ksmvr.

“Besides which, you are barely three years old.”

Yvlon tripped. It was a full-body thud, which attracted every head. And it must have hurt. But she was on her feet moments later.

“You’re how old, Ksmvr?”

The former Prognugator scratched at an antenna.

“Three. I was created in secret by my Queen as a replacement Prognugator in case of Revalantor Klbkch’s injury. I understand you are trying to cheer me up, Comrade Pisces, but I was considered fully trained by my Queen’s standards after two years since my creation.”

“Ah, but friend Ksmvr, Captain Ceria and I took, er, at least a decade of training to reach our levels.”

Pisces put his arm around Ksmvr’s shoulder. Ceria and Yvlon were too busy waving silently at each other to interject. The Antinium brightened.

“Truly?”

The young man nodded grandly.

“The maturation of Humans, half-Elves, and other species is much slower. Now, I grant you, it would still have taken you quite a long time to reach our level. But your current failing can be excused. I’m sure Ceria would agree with me.”

He glanced pointedly at Ceria. She stopped dancing about and cleared her throat.

“Er, yes. Of course. You’re one of us, Ksmvr. And you’re quite accomplished. For a three-year-old. Pisces. You didn’t mention that to us.”

Behind Ksmvr, Yvlon made a fist. The [Necromancer]’s smile turned glassy.

“What? Well, it’s perfectly natural for Antinium…”

“Still, you didn’t think it was important?”

“The lifespan of Antinium…”

Ksmvr held up a hand as he looked back at Ceria.

“Captain Ceria, I am fully aware of your complaint and prepared to address it.”

“Oh? Go on, Ksmvr.”

He nodded.

“I am aware that you know the average lifespan of Workers is only around two years in length. However, I would like to hasten to assure you that this is not a biological clock in any way, but merely a byproduct of high mortality rates owing to monster invasion, drowning, and accidents in the Hive. My body will not begin to deteriorate in quality owing to my age for at least a decade.”

“Oh.”

“Please do not be angry at Comrade Pisces. He merely sought to keep my advanced age a secret to avoid embarrassing me. You see, the Prognugator of a Hive must be trained, for years, whereas Workers and Soldiers are practically fully competent moments after being created. I had to learn to use weaponry, study tactics, history…”

Ceria sighed.

“That’s not quite why we were mad. But I’ll discuss it with Pisces later. Look…you’re fine as you are, Ksmvr. Let’s just drop that and deal with it later. Look, we’re here.”

They’d finally arrived at the Adventurer’s Guild. Ksmvr stared up at the two-story building and tilted his head from left to right. Ceria had to own it wasn’t the most impressive of spots. Oh, it was certainly bigger than Liscor’s guild, nearly twice as large, but it was still the Adventurer’s Guild of a moderately small city.

It was worn, the sign marking the guild was old and the paint had faded, and the guild had open shutters, not glass. Some loud laughter drifted out from the guild, as if it were a pub. Still, it was familiar to Ceria. In a way, it was home.

“What a mediocre guild. We might as well have gone to Pallass. Or waited until Invrisil. This is almost as poor as Miss Selys’ guild. Ah…don’t tell her I said that.”

Pisces studied the guild’s frontage dismissively. Yvlon and Ceria turned to glare at him.

“It’s not a big guild. It doesn’t need to be. And there are good Silver-rank teams in there, so watch your tongue, Pisces. Come to that—Ksmvr.”

“Yes, Captain Ceria!”

He straightened at once. Ceria eyed him.

“Don’t be nervous, Ksmvr.”

“I will endeavor to suppress my natural apprehension, Captain! But this is the second Guild I have ever entered! I must make a good impression!”

Ceria thought quickly. She really liked Ksmvr, she did. But she knew him pretty well now, and she knew exactly how much trouble those words might mean.

“Right…how about you don’t. Uh, Ksmvr, this guild hasn’t ever seen Antinium. So they might react—we’ll handle it. Yvlon and I. What I want you—and you, Pisces—to do is stay quiet, follow our leads, and don’t cause trouble. Got it?”

“Understood, Captain! I will be quiet and not cause any trouble!”

“Wonderful. Pisces?”

“Yes, oh, glorious Captain?”

He gave Ceria a sycophantic, fake smile. She gave up.

“If you start a fight, Yvlon and I won’t bail you out. Alright, Yvlon. It’s been a while. Want to see the regular crowd?”

The [Warrior] smiled. But there was a hint of…what? Apprehension? Something like that in her eyes. Ceria felt a strange flutter in her stomach as well and couldn’t place why. Why was it?

Oh. Because the last time I was here, I was with Calruz. Calruz, Gerial, Sostrom, Hunt…we were about to go to Liscor.

The memory froze Ceria in her tracks. She stared up at the guild. Then she shook her head, took a deep breath, and pushed open the door.



——



A worn room. Floorboards recently swept clean. Swept, but not scoured, because years of mud and dirt trekked into the room had etched itself between the cracks in the floorboards. There were stains too. Dark ones. Places where adventurers had bled. And perhaps, places where they had died, surrounded by friends after a mission gone wrong.

Marks of victory, small triumphs and battles forgotten by all. Scratches where someone had demonstrated a new Skill. Worn tables and chairs, but not too worn; after all, adventurers would start fights or break furniture by accident. So the wood was cheap, and the only permanent fixture was the desk with the [Receptionist] and the board filled with slips of paper. Jobs.

Ceria Springwalker looked around Celum’s guild. It was like she remembered. All of it. She felt a wave of nostalgia and sadness grip her. Then someone prodded her in the back.

“May we come in?”

Thank goodness for Pisces. Ceria jabbed an elbow backwards, missed Pisces, and hit Yvlon’s breastplate. The [Warrior] jerked out of the same reverie. As Ceria cursed and rubbed her elbow, Yvlon walked past her.

“Looks like a midday crowd. Not that many teams in.”

Ceria looked up. Instinct overruled her feelings. She surveyed the room a second time. The Adventurer’s Guild really did resemble a pub in a lot of ways. There were plenty of tables and chairs to sit about and, adventurers being pragmatic, some did indeed bring their lunches to eat while they prepared for a job or came back from one.

More than that, an Adventurer’s Guild always had someone hanging about. It was a place to socialize. All of your friends might be here if you were an adventurer. This would be more of your home than any inn.

Yvlon was right. This Guild wasn’t nearly as crowded as it could be. It could probably hold close to eighty people before feeling quite cramped. Right now it held only about three dozen, including the staff. Ceria shrugged.

“I don’t know. This isn’t too bad. Looks like, what, four to six teams with a bunch of individuals?”

“Something like it. See anyone you recognize?”

Yvlon studied the room casually. Adventurers had noticed the door opening and some were casually turning to see if there was anyone they knew, or someone new to note. Ceria frowned.

“I’m looking.”

She thought she spotted a group she recognized by the job board. The telltale sign was the lack of any glint of metal on them. Ceria motioned Pisces and Ksmvr over. The [Necromancer] looked bored. Ksmvr was the exact opposite. He was craning to see and more and more of the adventurers were noticing him. Ceria saw one woman punch her companion and point. They weren’t stupid; they could see Ksmvr was one of them. But an Antinium had probably never walked into Celum’s Guild. If Moore, Seborn, or Jelaqua had walked in, they’d get the same kind of look.

“Let’s get a seat before we start chatting. Over here. Pisces, please don’t start a fight.”

Yvlon looked at Pisces. He sniffed.

“I can be the model of discretion if I so choose.”

“Do it, then. Good morning, Miss.”

Yvlon waved at the [Receptionist] as she passed by. The woman at the desk looked up.

“Good morning, Miss—”

Her eyes widened a bit. Yvlon paused, but before she could ask if the [Receptionist] knew her—and it would be awkward because, like Ceria, most of the staff looked the same to Yvlon after a few Guilds—Ksmvr tugged at Yvlon’s arm.

“Yvlon, please explain. Is this guild similar to Liscor’s? I note a number of architectural and stylistic changes, but the concept remains the same. Is this so?”

“That’s right, Ksmvr. We’ve got a [Receptionist] like Selys, a place to hang out—training yard’s around back probably—and they’ve got a supply of emergency potions. This guild doesn’t sell food or drinks, but it’s got the basics. Job board, place to sit, place to turn in bounties and collect gold.”

“Ah. Thank you for clarifying. I wondered if Drakes and Humans were dissimilar in how they ran their guilds.”

“It might be different in a Walled City or how they manage their guilds up north, but Liscor vs Celum? We’re too close by to be that different. Come on. I think I spot…”

Yvlon headed towards the tables near the end of the room. Some of the adventurers were looking their way. After all, Yvlon was hard to miss. No, their entire team was hard to miss. Yvlon was wearing all-plate armor, and even if you couldn’t tell it was enchanted, it meant she was pretty successful. Or her family was rich. And Pisces and Ceria both wore robes, marking them out as well. And Ksmvr was Ksmvr.

A young man a few years younger than Yvlon, a bit younger than Erin, was staring at them uncertainly. He looked at Yvlon first, and then at Ceria. The half-Elf saw his eyes go to her face as she scrutinized him. Was he…?

The adventurer’s eyes widened as he saw Ceria’s hand. But then he stood up. He raised his voice.

“Is that Ceria? Ceria Springwalker? And—Yvlon?”

The guild went silent. Now every head turned. Ceria felt her heart jump. Yvlon stopped.

“Caddin?”

The young man walked towards them. He wore leather armor, and he carried an odd weapon with him. It was a sword. A sword, but one made of wood. From handle to hilt, it was just wood. But polished wood. Expertly carved and honed until it had an edge that could cut paper or flesh. It still looked incongruous, but Ceria knew the sword had killed more than one monster. She smiled broadly at Caddin as he halted, staring from her to Yvlon with shock.

“It’s us, Caddin! Are you surprised to see us? We just came from Liscor! We’re the Horns of Hammerad. The new group, I mean. The old one’s…”

She trailed off. Ceria felt her heart skip another beat as Caddin stared at her. She waited for him to ask the obvious. But he just stared at her.

“Yeah. We’d heard you’d reformed the Horns of Hammerad. But I couldn’t believe it.”

His eyes shifted to Yvlon. The woman smiled at him.

“Good to see you again, Caddin. How’s the team doing?”

“Us? We’re good. Yeah. They’re right over here. Hey! Guys!”

Caddin waved a hand absently. Ceria saw six people stand up. Three more men, three women. That squared with what she remembered. One of their group was a [Mage], but she, like the others, wore leather armor. Not one of them had a hint of metal on their persons. Their weapons were wood. Even the tips of their arrows were crafted out of wood. They paused behind Caddin as Ceria introduced the Horns.

“Caddin, this is our new team. You know Yvlon, but this is Pisces and Ksmvr. He’s from Liscor, and Pisces is from Wistram. Ksmvr’s an Antinium, but they’re fairly normal in most ways.”

“Hello. I am Ksmvr. I understand you are competition.”

The Antinium raised a hand as he extended another one to shake. Caddin jumped.

“An Antinium? I thought they—”

He caught himself. Gingerly he reached out and shook Ksmvr’s hand, flinching a tiny bit as he touched the Antinium’s exoskeleton. Ksmvr shook his hand cheerfully.

“I have now met Mister Caddin. Is he a superior adventurer, or inferior, Captain Ceria?”

Yvlon suppressed a sigh. She waved at the [Mage], a woman in her mid-twenties with faded ashy hair, as she came forwards.

“Caddin’s a Silver-rank adventurer, just like us, Ksmvr. My team knew him back in the day. His group’s named Thunder’s Solace. They have a [Lightning Mage] for a leader. Their entire team goes without metal so they can use electric spells without getting hurt. And this is their leader and said [Lightning Mage]. Hello, Alais.”

She reached out. Alais gingerly gave her a one-armed hug. She blinked as Ksmvr extended his hands, but shook them.

“Yvlon. It’s good to see you…I thought we wouldn’t meet. After I heard about Liscor—but I did hear your group was back. Ceria.”

She nodded at Ceria. The half-Elf vaguely remembered Alais, but not as well as Yvlon. She nodded back. Alais blinked again at her and Yvlon, looking far more surprised than Ceria would have thought. Well, after Liscor…but she didn’t bring it up, like Caddin. He was still staring at Ceria. Ksmvr didn’t notice their feelings. He was speaking cheerfully, and Ceria was glad of that.

“It is a pleasure to meet a [Lightning Mage]. May I ask if you are superior or inferior in magical capacity to Captain Ceria?”

Pisces gently coughed next to Ksmvr.

“I believe the term is [Aeromancer], Ksmvr. And asking about inferiority and superiority is considered a social flaw in most circumstances. A pleasure to meet a fellow [Mage].”

He stepped forwards as Alais and her team focused on him. Yvlon and Ceria both held their breath, but Pisces seemed to have taken Yvlon’s words to heart. Perhaps too much so. He instantly approached with a hand outstretched and a charming smile.

“Captain Alais, is it? My name is Pisces. I’m delighted to meet you. I’m a [Mage] from Wistram. I hope you won’t hold it against me.”

It was a joke about Wistram [Mages] and their at times hard-to-work-with natures. Alais’ eyebrows shot up, and there was a chuckle from the other adventurers. Whatever awkwardness had persisted from Caddin spotting them vanished in a second. Alais reached out, and Ceria bit her tongue as she shook Pisces’ hand.

“I’m very pleased to meet you. You’re a new part of the Horns of Hammerad along with, er, Ksmvr here? Are you a general [Mage] or a specialist of some kind?”

Pisces smiled apologetically.

“I’m afraid I haven’t reached that degree of specialization with my [Mage] class. However, I do practice a bit of fencing. Perhaps I’d make a good [Spellsword]? May I assume your team knows ours, or at least Yvlon and our captain?”

He indicated Ceria politely. Alais looked at Ceria and Yvlon.

“Oh, of course. From nearly two years back. We’ve worked with…Yvlon’s old team a few times. And I know Ceria’s old team. Where are my manners? Come and sit with us.”

She gestured towards their table. Ceria followed Pisces as he sat down next to Alais and her team. Somehow, she and Yvlon were at the edge of the table while Pisces and Ksmvr were in the center. Of course, they were the unknown quantities. Caddin was asking Ksmvr exactly what he was while Pisces listened to Alais introduce her team.

“…and that’s Caddin, of course. We’re a mix, mostly [Warriors] and [Archers]. Not really [Hunters] for all we look the part. You see, it’s about my magic. I’m a specialist. Nothing like a Wistram-trained [Mage] in terms of quality, of course, and I’ve got some [Warrior] classes as well. Not exactly a pure [Mage], right?”

She shot Ceria a quick glance. The half-Elf sighed. Wistram [Mages] did earn their reputation for snobbishness. But Pisces was shaking his head.

“Practically speaking, a pure [Mage] is quite inflexible. We should all have some means of defending ourselves, if only to fight foes capable of using anti-magic effects. My fencing is as much hobby as for self-defense, which is a necessity among [Mages], wouldn’t you agree?”

The [Aeromancer] was nodding eagerly, forgetting the others as she talked craft while Ksmvr tried to explain what an Antinium was, from his perspective.

“Of course. But it’s a tricky line. I’m good with a staff, but as an [Aeromancer] I find it’s hard to avoid electrifying metal. You see, I’m self-taught, so my team’s had to learn how to use non-metallic weapons…”

Alais looked embarrassed, but Pisces shook his head.

“It’s quite understandable. I wouldn’t dare to fire off a [Lightning Bolt] spell around Yvlon. Wistram does teach control, but electrical spells are extremely hard to control given how fast the currents move. If we have time, perhaps we could exchange lightning form techniques? I might not be able to cast Tier 3 spells, but I do have some knowledge of spell theory I could compare…it would be a pleasure to learn from someone with practical experience, however. I find Wistram students often fall behind people with field experience…”

“You son of a Creler.”

Ceria mumbled to herself as Pisces instantly charmed Alais and the other adventurers. And somehow, he even seemed partly genuine to her. But she knew he was still putting on an act to make a good first impression. She didn’t know if she hated or was grateful to him for it.

And she’d forgotten how likable Pisces could be if he tried, damn it! Ceria watched him play the humble [Mage] from Wistram so well she nearly forgot to take part in the conversation. Yvlon, who’d waited for the introductions to finish, leaned in.

“It’s been a while, Alais. How’s your team been? We haven’t seen each other since Liscor. Has anything big come your way since then?”

Alais looked up. She frowned, and Caddin and the other five looked up as well.

“Nothing to say, Yvlon. We earned some gold, but we spent it getting some new equipment from a [Carpenter]. You know how it is. Wooden swords. Maces, clubs, wooden arrows. We’ve been keeping ourselves busy.”

Ceria raised her eyebrows. That was hardly an answer. Normally any seasoned adventurer would have a story to tell or complaints about money lost. Yvlon frowned, but someone else approached their table.

“Hullo there. Is that Yvlon and Ceria I see? Mind if I stop by?”

That voice was familiar. Ceria twisted. Her face burst into a smile. She shot to her feet.

“Stan! Why didn’t you say something earlier?”

An older man in his early forties was standing by the table. He wore chainmail and had a dagger at his belt along with a small, brown pouch, but he didn’t carry any other obvious weapons. He let Ceria hug him and then shook Yvlon’s hand. He stared at Ceria’s skeletal hand for a second and then at her face, before nodding to Alais.

“I didn’t think to see you today, Ceria. Yvlon. It’s—quite good to see you two looking so healthy.”

Caddin shifted. Ceria blinked at Stan. Normally he’d be bursting to ask her questions, like someone half his age, but he was more reserved as well. Her stomach twisted. Had someone passed away recently?

“How’s the team, Stan? Are the Boltspitters well?”

“Us? We took a few bad injuries, but nothing to speak of. Lailli’s laid up with a broken foot, but we’re working to keep her fed in the meantime. Who are these two? I heard you’re named Ksmvr?”

“That is correct. I am Ksmvr.”

“Pisces.”

The [Mage] stood up and shook Stan’s hand. Ceria smiled as she waved at Stan and the two members of his team sitting at their table.

“This is Stan, you two. Crossbow Stan. He’s the only Silver-ranked adventurer around here that has anything like a nickname. He’s a bit of a legend locally—he’s got his own fighting style too!”

Ksmvr looked very interested.

“Really? Please elaborate, Captain Ceria.”

“Why not let Stan explain. You love that, don’t you, Stan?”

The adventurer smiled. He touched his belt and the bag at his side.

“I do indeed. I’m a [Crossbowman] by trade. I don’t know if you’ve ever used one, but the damn things take a bit to load. True, you can fire them fast, but there’s nothing like a good bow for speed. Except you can load a crossbow ahead of time. So if I needed to fight, I could do this—”

He raised his hand. And suddenly there was a loaded crossbow aimed at the table. Two of the younger adventurers sitting with Alais’ team swore and jerked out of their chairs, but all of the older ones just laughed. Ksmvr had frozen in place. He opened his mandibles slowly.

“I see. That is impressive. Look, Captain Ceria. I did not move. See?”

He waved a hand at her. Ceria smiled.

“Good job, Ksmvr.”

Pisces sniffed, then caught himself and looked dutifully impressed.

“I see. A bag of holding to store a preloaded crossbow. But may I be so bold, Crossbow Stan? I’ll bet you didn’t keep just one crossbow, did you?”

The veteran adventurer chortled. He flicked his hand next to the bag of holding and a second crossbow appeared, replacing the first. It was a neat trick, but the adventurers he was pointing at did not appreciate it.

“Put it away, Stan! You’ll hit someone one day! At least use an unloaded crossbow!”

“Aw, shut up, Caddin. I’ve never hit anyone yet. By accident, anyways. But you’re right, young man. That’s my specialty.”

“I assume that is a bag of holding, as Comrade Pisces said?”

Ksmvr peered at the small bag at Crossbow Stan’s side. The man nodded proudly.

“That’s right. Preloaded crossbows. I have six of ‘em. My bag can’t fit any more. Every time I had enough coin, I spent it on a better bag of holding. Not that I need a new one now; if I can’t take down what needs taking down in six shots, I might as well be dead. I guess I need better crossbows or enchanted quarrels now, but this is good enough for Silver-rank work.”

He made the second crossbow disappear quickly. Ceria nodded approvingly. Stan, or Crossbow Stan as he was affectionately known, was an old man in the adventuring job. Not as old as Typhenous, but he’d stayed in the Silver-ranks because he didn’t have the punch to go any higher. That didn’t mean he was a slouch, though; she’d seen him put four crossbow bolts into a charging Ogre in less than ten seconds. Ksmvr nodded.

“I admire your style of fighting. It complements your advanced age and decaying reflexes.”

“Oh, Ksmvr—”

Ceria put her head down on the table. Stan was too busy laughing to take offense.

“So this is an Antinium? It can tell jokes! And you—you’re one sharp [Mage] if you can figure out my trick, young man. Pisces, was it?”

He paused.

“I feel like I remember your name. I’m sure we haven’t met, but have you been through Celum before, sir?”

Pisces raised his eyebrows and shrugged.

“I’ve passed through once or twice, but I wasn’t an adventurer then. This is a career change. I hope I can count on you to teach me the ropes, as it were.”

He shook Stan’s hand. The man smiled again.

“Pleased. Have you known Ceria and Yvlon long, Pisces?”

He glanced up at Ceria and Yvlon swiftly for some reason before looking at Pisces. The [Necromancer] gave Stan a disarming smile.

“I knew Ceria back in Wistram. We met while she was in Liscor, and I was delighted to join her team after it reformed.”

“I see. I see. Well, I just wanted to say hi. I won’t keep you. Perhaps we can have a chat later today. Is your team going to take a request today, Ceria?”

“We thought we’d look around. We’re planning on working in Celum for a bit, Stan, Alais. But we can stay and chat! How’s it been?”

“Oh, you know. The same sort of assignments. There was a bit of a flood of monsters after Lord Tyrion’s army passed through, as well as those damn Goblins. Critters from the High Passes came out; we had to kill a good number of Carn Wolves and Eater Goats and a few other nasties. Not worth taking up time with.”

This time both Ceria and Yvlon frowned. Stan and Alais? The man looked down at the [Aeromancer] and cleared his throat. She stood up.

“I don’t want to take up your time if you’re going to work. It’s already midday. We’ll catch your team later, Ceria. Where are you staying?”

“The Wandering Inn. You know it?”

“That inn in Liscor? I’d heard it was in Stitchworks, but I’ve never been. Never wanted to go to a Drake city and besides…but we’ll maybe pop by. I’d like to chat with Pisces about magic if I may.”

Stan nodded.

“Right. We’ll catch up later. Ceria, Yvlon. Good to see you again.”

He turned and returned to his table. And for some reason, Thunder’s Solace vacated their table to join him. Ceria stared at them and bit her lip for a second. She turned to Yvlon.

“That was a bit abrupt.”

The [Warrior] gave her a crooked smile as she watched the other adventurers go.

“They must be thinking about Liscor.”

“Think they don’t want to talk about Calruz and the others? I was ready for it.”

“They might be trying to spare our feelings. They noticed your hand. We can tell them it’s okay to talk about later.”

“Right.”

Ceria shook herself. You couldn’t be too considerate in this line of work. She appreciated it, but Alais and Stan had both experienced losing teammates before. She looked around.

“I guess we’ll tell the [Receptionist] how long we’re staying and that we’ll work around Celum for…a few days? Ah, Ksmvr, that’s something teams like to do. It helps if someone wants to hire us, and the guild can keep track of the teams in the area in case of emergencies. You take a seat or check out the job board. I’ll be a moment.”

She got up. The other adventurers got back to their seats or their discussions, although some still stared at Ksmvr. And Ceria and Yvlon, but that was only to be expected. The hubbub returned, but quieter. Ceria supposed the other teams were sizing their reformed party up. She approached the [Receptionist].

“Hi there. I’m Ceria Springwalker, and I lead the Horns of Hammerad…”

The woman at the desk blinked at her. Ceria had to repeat herself a few times; whomever the [Receptionist] was, she wasn’t on the ball today. When she finally got back to her table, she had another surprise. Ksmvr was sitting with Pisces and Yvlon. He had a full stack of the papers from the board on the far wall. Yvlon was trying to make him put them back.

“But Yvlon, we can easily clear all these requests. If we do ten today, and twenty tomorrow…”

“Ksmvr, did you steal all the requests from the board?”

Ceria was scandalized. Ksmvr’s mandibles drooped as he looked up.

“Have I committed another social error?”

“A small one.”

Yvlon sighed. She pointed at the now-bare job board at the back of the guild.

“Ksmvr, there’s a few unspoken rules in the Adventurer’s Guild. One of them is that it’s not polite to take all the requests. You can do it, but you lose a lot of friends that way. And if another group takes a request, stealing their mission is also bad sport.”

Ksmvr looked from her to Ceria. Pisces was yawning as he looked around the room; none of this was news to him.

“Oh. But how is it determined whose request is taken? This system is largely unintuitive.”

Ceria smiled.

“It is. But it’s easy to tell. Go put the requests back. You see, the second board there, with the three requests on it? That means someone’s taken them, but they’re an open assignment. Like gathering materials, ooh, taking out a pair of Eater Goats…checking up on a possible Troll sighting…you see? Out of courtesy we won’t take those. And if we did, we’d talk with the teams involved, reach an understanding.”

Ksmvr nodded as he re-pinned the pieces of paper he’d claimed.

“I see. I see. What is that board above it?”

“Exclusive contracts. See? Escorting a [Trader], someone wants a bodyguard…things only one team can do. But the board you took from is open game for now. It’s generally organized so the harder and riskier assignments are near the top. See? Each one has a difficulty assessment for the recommended level—as well as if you might need a certain class, like [Mage]—as well as location, pay, urgency, and so on.”

Ksmvr peered closely at the board as Ceria worked her way up to the top. He rubbed his hands together eagerly as he contemplated options with her.

“I see. I see. Ah, Captain. We could gather Sage Grass. It pays in copper coins per pound.”

“…Not really our thing, Ksmvr. Besides, the local farms make the prices too low.”

“Would you like to hunt down some wolves?”

“How much is the pay per head?”

“Four silver coins.”

“No. Unless someone puts a substantial price on the heads of a monster, it’s generally not worth our time, Ksmvr.”

“And four silver coins is not?”

“To track wolves? We’re not [Hunters], and it could be a pain.”

“Ah. So what is our preferred assignment?”

Ceria frowned absently.

“Something that involves high risk. It generally means more pay. Plus, high-level monsters have bigger bounties. What about—oh. This…might be ours.”

Right there, at the top of the board, was a bounty. And it was a good one. Twenty gold pieces and sixteen silver ones, with the potential to earn a lot more if Ceria was right. She stared at it. Ksmvr peered up at it.

“That is substantially higher than all other requests. Is it a powerful monster?”

Ceria shook her head absently. She noticed Yvlon and Pisces getting up to see. She plucked the request off the board and showed them. Yvlon frowned. Pisces raised his brows.

“Not monsters. Humans. This is a [Bandit] extermination request.”

Ceria scratched her head.

“I didn’t know a group had popped up.”

Yvlon’s frown deepened as she scratched at the metal covering her arm.

“It must be new. Do you think we should…?”

Pisces shrugged. Ksmvr peered at the request. His antennae were twitching rapidly, which Ceria knew meant he was puzzled.

“I was unaware Humans could put bounties on each other. This changes my perception of the role of adventurers.”

“No, Ksmvr—it’s not—these are [Bandits]. Lawbreakers. We’re not [Mercenaries], but someone has to take care of [Bandits] as well as monsters. And sometimes the local City Watch or militia or [Lord] can’t handle the matter, or they do it by putting up a bounty. We get paid to take on the [Bandits]. It’s dangerous. Monsters are predictable. People aren’t.”

Yvlon nodded. She absently studied the request.

“Still, this is a twenty gold bounty.”

By her side, Pisces sniffed.

“Is that considered high, Yvlon? I would assume a single [Bandit] would be worth twenty gold pieces.”

“Well, yeah. If they were high-level. But this must be a fairly low-level group. Or the bounty hasn’t risen yet. It’ll go up if they keep causing trouble. If it were the Bloodfeast Raiders, it would be…what’s their bounty?”

“Four hundred thousand gold pieces, I think. If the entire group’s destroyed, or most of them. Eighty thousand for credible information about who their members are or how they operate. Twenty thousand per head on top of that.”

Yvlon whistled. Ceria shook her head.

“A bit more than our pay grade. But this? We could do this.”

“For twenty gold pieces…”

Pisces sniffed. Ceria frowned at him.

“It’s a lot more if one of the [Bandits] has an individual bounty. What’s this say? There are about thirty of them? We can keep any money they’ve stolen usually and sell their gear.”

“How charitable. But thirty individuals is a considerable risk.”

“You’ve got that right!”

Someone called out. Ceria turned and saw more than a few adventurers had been listening. Stan waved at them from their table. He was frowning as he pointed at the paper in Ksmvr’s hand.

“Ceria, I’d stay clear of that one. Me and Alais were talking about clearing it with a few other teams, but the gold reward isn’t high enough, even if we can keep their possessions. The bandit group that’s referring to isn’t hard to find—but they’re dangerous. They’ve got at least two [Mages] and a leader. Some kind of [Bandit Chief]. My group ran into some of them a while back. They tangled with a few patrols, raided a caravan…there used to be more, but they killed several adventuring groups and quite a number of [Guards] and people in outlying villages.”

“Jeeze. How’d your team get away?”

Stan shook his head.

“We ran for it. It was only fifteen we ran into, and they weren’t after us. I shot two; Lailli got knocked off her horse. That’s how she broke her foot. I wouldn’t take them on without outnumbering them. We do know where they’re probably camped, but no one’s had the guts to go after them yet.”

The Horns looked quickly at each other. Yvlon raised her brows, and Ceria nodded quickly.

“Really? Then maybe we can join you, Stan. We wouldn’t even need that many teams. With your group and Thunder’s Solace if you’re willing, Alais, we could probably take on that [Bandit] group.”

Caddin snorted.

“You insane, Springwalker? There’s, what, fourteen of us if we combine forces? Not counting Lailli. There’s around thirty of the [Bandits], probably more.”

“If we know where they’re at…how reliable is the intel, Stan? We can set a trap. And believe me, between our teams, I’m sure we can handle a good number.”

Ceria looked at Pisces and Yvlon. If they were low-level [Bandits]…Yvlon put her hand on her sword, and Pisces smiled. She could practically see him plotting how to use his Bone Horror to greatest effect. Ceria turned back to Stan, but the older adventurer wasn’t jumping at the idea.

“I don’t know, Ceria. We’d like that bounty, but working together’s a bit…”

“Come on, Stan. We’ve known each other for years. Trust us. We’re a lot higher-level than you remember. Me and Yvlon have new gear too, and Pisces and Ksmvr are good, for all they’re newbies.”

The half-Elf came over to the table and leaned over, trying to persuade Stan. Caddin, sitting next to the man, snorted.

“We know about your gear, Ceria. That’s not it.”

“What, then? Our experience? We’ve fought a lot worse than [Bandits], Caddin.”

Ceria looked at the young man, confused. He scowled up at her.

“Don’t play dumb. You know exactly what I’m talking about. Do you think we’d join with you? Really?”

His tone was very hostile. Ceria stared at him.

“Caddin, I don’t get it. What’s wrong?”

“What’s wrong? You just stride in here and ask what’s wrong? Don’t you know? Or don’t you remember?”

He shot to his feet, knocking his chair back. Ceria blinked at him. His face was flushed. And she realized he hadn’t so much as smiled at her once, or spoken to her beyond that first meeting. She looked at Alais. The [Aeromancer] avoided looking at Ceria. She grabbed Caddin’s arm and tried to pull him down.

“Caddin, drop it.”

Caddin shook Alais off him.

“No! If you and Stan aren’t going to say it, I will. Look! She doesn’t even get it. Not her, or Yvlon. Does her team know?”

He shoved back from the table and strode around Ceria. She realized the room was silent. Caddin pointed furiously at Yvlon as he stopped in front of Pisces and Ksmvr.

“You, Pisces. And you…Antinium. Do you know what those two did?”

Pisces raised his eyebrows.

“What do you mean by that?”

Suddenly, Ceria had an unpleasant feeling. A horrible sinking in her stomach. She thought she knew why Caddin was so angry. She looked at Alais and Stan. Neither team captain met her eyes. Caddin clenched his fist.

“I mean, do you know what happened to their previous teams, Mister Pisces? Or do you not care? And what about that Antinium thing?”

“Ksmvr.”

“Does he know? Or did they recruit him because no one else would work with them? Yvlon and Ceria. They both lost their teams. Both of them! And Yvlon was a captain! She lost her entire team, the Silver Spears! And all of the Horns of Hammerad died but Ceria! Did you hear about that?”

Ceria went pale. Yvlon had gone white. Pisces blinked at Caddin. He looked around, and his gaze focused on the silent room. He narrowed his eyes for a moment and then turned carefully to Caddin. Innocently, he spread his hands.

“I am aware Ceria lost her team. How could I not be?”

“Then—how could you—”

The Silver-rank adventurer spluttered. Pisces paused. His eyes darted to Ceria’s face.

“I know it was a tragic accident. A dungeon dive gone wrong. But surely that wasn’t Ceria’s fault. Or Yvlon’s. Adventuring is a terrible business.”

Pisces’ voice was smooth and reasonable, even sympathetic. Caddin choked.

“But I heard—”

Pisces gripped his shoulder.

“Please, friend. Let me explain what I heard as someone who was there. You see, I know my friend. And believe me, Liscor’s dungeon was truly terrible. I don’t know what rumors have passed this way—”

“More than rumors. There was a man…”

“Even so, was he a witness? Because I was. And let me just say first—”

Ceria felt herself begin breathing again. Pisces was trying to steer Caddin back to the table, speaking in a carrying voice. So that was why…she looked at Stan and Alais. She had to clear whatever misinformation had been put out there. Both were listening to Pisces, which was a relief. But Stan was rubbing at his head, looking very perplexed.

“Pisces. I thought I knew the name. Where did I…?”

“Let’s sit. Is there a drink I can buy? I’ll clear the air. But first, what is my friend accused of? Yvlon? She’s quite honorable, friend Caddin. And when her team went into the dungeon—”

Crossbow Stan abruptly got up. He pointed a trembling finger at Pisces. The [Necromancer] broke off, and Ceria felt a lurch in her stomach. Oh no. She sensed what was about to happen.

“Dungeon. You mean crypt. And I remember that name. Pisces. Someone’s looking for you. And you lied.”

“Excuse me?”

Pisces turned, but his posture was suddenly wary. Stan shook his head. He raised his voice until it was almost a shout.

“You’re not a [Mage]. You’re a [Necromancer]! A filthy [Necromancer]!”

And that was it. The silence of the guild, the tense atmosphere turned hostile in a second. Ceria’s head whirled as she heard the screech of wood on wood. Eight adventurers had just gotten up. Pisces looked around as he took a step back. He hesitated, sighed, then sniffed haughtily.

“I’m quite clean, sir. But I will acknowledge the truth of your words.”

Caddin jerked away from him as if he were infected. He stumbled back, face twisted, and then pointed at Ceria.

“You see that? A [Necromancer] and one of the bug people! No one else would partner with her, or Yvlon!”

“Is this true, Yvlon? Are you really working with a [Necromancer]?”

Alais was on her feet. She glared at Yvlon. The armored woman’s face was pale, but her voice was steady as she held up a hand.

“Pisces does use necromancy. But hear us out.”

“Traitor!”

An adventurer shouted that. The hair on Ceria’s neck crawled. Pisces had a hunted look and for good reason. [Necromancers] weren’t popular in Izril after Az’kerash. But adventurers had another reason to hate them. After all, they were sometimes called on to take care of undead outbreaks, and if a [Necromancer] was behind it…

“Stan, Alais, everyone, let’s calm down.”

Ceria called out. She raised her hands, shouting to be heard. The two captains looked at her. Ceria waved her arms, praying neither Pisces nor Ksmvr made things worse.

“What’s going on? Why are you all so upset? Pisces is a [Necromancer]. It’s true. But he doesn’t animate people. He uses bear skeletons. And Ksmvr’s Antinium. So what?”

“So wh—”

“Caddin. Let me handle this.”

Alais pushed Caddin back hard. She walked around the table and came face-to-face with Ceria. She wasn’t smiling. And she wasn’t looking at Ceria like a fellow adventurer. She glanced at Ceria, and then at Yvlon. When Alais spoke, it was to the silent Adventurer’s Guild. Three dozen heads turned to watch her and Ceria. The adventurers of Celum were silent as Alais began.

“Ceria, I don’t know you that well. But I know Yvlon. We’re friends. We were friends. But here’s the thing. The last time we saw each other, you were about to go to Liscor. With Calruz as your leader, not Ceria. And Yvlon, you had your team. Where’s Kina, Veitul, Domie? Where’s everyone else? Horn? Sostrom? Gerial?”

She looked at Ceria. And the half-Elf knew that Alais knew the answer. Ceria felt a pit open up in her stomach and cold memories leak through.



Ceria stared at him. Gerial’s face was white, and he looked almost as bloodless as Skinner’s body. He shuddered, and she felt it.

“Run. I’ll—I’ll buy you some time.”

He pointed down the corridor. Ceria’s feet began to move, but she halted them.

“Gerial—”

He shoved her away.

“Run, damn you!”



Skinner. Ceria’s heart was beating wildly. She looked at Alais. At the grim look in her eye.

“They’re dead. They died in the crypt.”

She nodded.

“They died in Liscor. We all heard about it. It was a massacre, wasn’t it? But somehow you two survived, and you’re already adventuring again? Practically unharmed? With a [Necromancer] and one of…of those?”

She pointed at Ksmvr uncertainly. The former Prognugator didn’t wave a hand. He’d sensed the mood. Alais went on.

“It feels like we just heard about Liscor when news came from Albez that the Horns of Hammerad had just found a huge amount of treasure there. Ceria, what would you think about that?”

Ceria shook her head.

“The way you say it…we didn’t just get out. We lost a lot. Yvlon barely escaped. She was hurt and I—I lost my hand.”

She held up her skeletal hand. Alais nodded slowly, staring at it.

“I see it. But it’s still moving. And if you made it like that, how’d no one else get out. Gerial? Calruz?”

This time Ceria wavered.

“Calruz did make it out.”

“Then why isn’t he—”

“He got lost in the dungeon. And he lost an arm. He’s mad now, and he killed a bunch of other people. Alais, I made it out because I found somewhere to hide—”

But of course that was the wrong thing to say. Ceria bit her lip. Caddin shouted.

“Aha! You see? She hid, and Yvlon ran!”

“Everyone ran!”

Yvlon burst out. She snapped at Caddin. The [Warrior] whirled, looking around the guild. She wasn’t afraid like Ceria. Yvlon was furious.

“Spit it out, what you’re saying. Alais! Are you saying we abandoned our teams? We were all retreating. The other teams died fighting, but once that monster came out—Skinner—we knew it was impossible. So we ran. Ceria and I were lucky. Pisces and Ksmvr joined us later. What’s wrong with that?”

Alais said nothing. She just looked Yvlon up and down, uncertainly, as if she couldn’t trust a word Yvlon had just said. Stan got to his feet.

“Yvlon. Ceria. A question. After you two got out, what happened to the adventurers that died? Their families?”

“We made sure what was left was cremated. There wasn’t enough to bury, and we couldn’t figure out who…we made sure the families got all the money we had left. I survived by the skin of my teeth, Stan.”

Ceria spoke through numb lips. She looked at the old adventurer. He met her eyes, searching. Then he nodded.

“I want to believe you, Ceria. And I heard the families of the deceased got something. But it’s just…a [Necromancer]? Really? And you know what they say about the Antinium.”

He held up a hand before Yvlon could shout.

“And it’s not just that. Look, we’ve talked to more survivors of that night than just you two. One of Cervial’s [Hunters] from the Flawless Flights made it this way a while back. Poor bastard had nothing left. Said Liscor’s City Watch had confiscated all of his team’s possessions and their gold was gone. The way he told it, both his team and Gregor’s went up against that boss from the dungeon first. The Silver Spears and the Horns were out of the way. He said he never saw your teams—you’d already run away.”

Ceria’s stomach twisted. Cervial and Gregor had been trapping the area outside Skinner’s door without realizing it was already unlocked. They’d never stood a chance. Yvlon clenched her gauntleted fists.

“Say that again. Who was it who’s spreading those lies?”

Stan raised his hands slowly.

“I’m not saying I believed him. He was done as an adventurer, and he was cursing Cervial and Gregor as well. Said they’d walked their teams right into a trap like fools. Which I don’t believe. But he did say that all of his team’s possessions and the loot they’d gathered were confiscated by Liscor. Is that true?”

“True. I barely had anything left. My wand was gone, and Yvlon lost everything but her armor and sword. The rest went to the adventurers’ families, honest.”

Crossbow Stan nodded. He looked at Ceria, and she realized he was staring at her side. At her wand. Slowly, he pointed at it, then at Yvlon.

“Fancy enchanted armor you’re wearing these days, Yvlon. Magical buckler on that Antinium. And Ceria’s got a new wand. Where’d it all come from?”

Ceria felt a flicker of anger at the implication. Yvlon was already furious. She snapped back.

“Albez. Did you hear about that?”

Stan nodded slowly.

“I did. And I’ve been to Albez before, many times, Yvlon. Probably before you were even born. I’ve never found more than a few trinkets. How’d you find treasure in Albez? Let alone a haul like…”

He waved a hand at them. Ceria shut her mouth firmly. Olesm. Stan looked from her to Yvlon. Alais cut in.

“We’re not saying your teams didn’t fight, Yvlon. Maybe you did. Maybe you got lucky. Or maybe you ran. We can’t prove it, and truth spells are tricky when everyone saw something different. But suddenly partnering up after the crypt? Suddenly finding treasure in Albez when no one’s found anything worth speaking of for nearly a decade? Working with a [Necromancer]?”

She pointed at Pisces. He’d folded his arms and was looking around. He glanced pointedly at Ceria, but she couldn’t signal him anything. All the other adventurers were just watching. But their eyes…

Stan took over, like the fatherly figure he was to so many adventurers in the area.

“If you can tell us how you got so lucky, we’ll believe you. Maybe you found a map. But if you did…where? Did you get it from the crypt? Did you, maybe, find something and not tell anyone about it? Not share it with the survivors? Or the deceased?”

“Did you leave them—”

Caddin broke off. He was trembling. So was Ceria. But she was shaking with nerves. One wrong step might lead to something very bad. Everyone was listening. She looked at Yvlon. The [Warrior] hesitated. She glanced at Ceria, then she spoke.

“There was a map.”

The stir in the room was the prelude to something. Yvlon raised her voice.

“There was a map! But it didn’t come from Liscor’s crypt. It came from a Drake we met in Liscor who was part of the dungeon raid. Ksmvr joined our group by chance. I was penniless and Ceria too. She knew Pisces from Wistram. And Ksmvr we’d met. We took a chance when we discovered there might be treasure still in Albez. We took a chance, risked our lives, and we found it! It was luck. It was a miracle! But we didn’t steal it from the people who died in the crypt. That was a nightmare. But I swear, I kept fighting until I thought I’d die. Ceria barely survived herself, and she helped hold the undead off. I’ll swear that on any truth spell you want.”

She turned, putting a hand over her heart. No one spoke. Ceria looked at Caddin. He looked furious, still. And Alais and Stan—none of them looked like they quite believed Yvlon.

“Well? You can cast a spell! Test me!”

Yvlon shouted. Alais shook her head.

“Maybe we will. But Yvlon—it still doesn’t sit well with me.”

The armored woman rounded on her. Alais didn’t flinch from Yvlon’s furious stare.

“What doesn’t sit with you, Alais? The truth? Do you want to see my arms? I burned my armor into my bones in Albez!”

“I don’t doubt that—”

“Then what do you doubt?”

Alais crossed her arms. The air around her was crackling with more than just tension.

“You were never the sort to work with [Necromancers]. You hated them. As for Antinium—this Ksmvr thing looks safe enough, but you’re telling me the Drakes just ‘happened’ to have a map of Albez all this time? And never exploited it?”

“It was chance. He found it purely by luck.”

Yvlon ground her teeth. Alais raised her eyebrows.

“Pretty lucky to find a map of Albez in Liscor, isn’t it?”

Silence. Stan looked at Ceria. His eyes were worried and upset, but he did still look at her.

“Anything you want to add, Ceria?”

The half-Elf spread her arms helplessly.

“Yvlon’s telling the truth. I don’t know how to prove it besides swearing on truth spells, Stan. Either you believe us or you don’t. I know it seems suspicious, but we earned our treasure separately from the crypt. Maybe one’s tied to the other. If I hadn’t survived and met Ksmvr when I did, I wouldn’t have been tipped off to Albez. But we didn’t steal from the dead. We ran, but there was no choice. If you’d been there, you would have seen it. I lost this hand trying to stop the undead. Believe me.”

She raised her skeletal hand and showed Stan that. He nodded slowly.

“I’m trying, Ceria. But you have to understand us. Even if what you said was true. Even if it’s on a level, all of it…it’s hard to look at you or Yvlon.”

“Me? Why…?”

“Because your team was the one that brought everyone to Liscor. The Horns helped convince the others. And Yvlon—you were a team captain. You lost your entire team. And you walk in part of a new one? You think it’s that easy?”

Caddin spat on the ground. Ceria stared down at the wet mark on the floorboards. Yvlon glared at Caddin.

“People have lost friends before. Stan! You lost two-thirds of your team when I was a rookie! And Alais, you’ve lost at least six members!”

“Yes. I did. But this is different.”

The woman crossed her arms defensively. Stan, on the other hand, looked troubled. And Ceria remembered that he’d stayed far away from the guild for a long time after that disaster. She looked at Yvlon. How easy would it have been if it were Stan coming back wearing new magical artifacts and a new team after…?

“Yvlon. I get their point.”

The woman rounded on Ceria. The [Ice Mage] gave her a warning stare, and Yvlon hesitated.

“I get it, Yvlon. It’s not true, but they’re upset. They have every right to be. We…lost our teams. We can explain, but it doesn’t change what happened. And working together…I get that too.”

She looked back at Alais and Stan. They nodded. Ceria turned. Ksmvr was still seated, silently watching. She wondered how much he understood. Pisces was aloof, coldly looking around.

“Look, if anyone’s not convinced, get a [Mage] with a truth spell. Or come to The Wandering Inn and find us there. We’ll tell you what happened as many times as it takes. For now…we’re not going to stick around. Just think about what we said. As for this—”

Ceria walked back to Ksmvr and held out a hand. The Antinium handed her the bounty on the [Bandits]. Ceria brought it over to the [Receptionist]’s desk. The woman stared silently at her.

“I’d like to take this request, please. Can you note that we’re trying to complete it?”

The woman stared at her. She stared at the bounty. Behind Ceria, someone laughed incredulously.

“By yourselves? Are you mad?”

Ceria turned her head slowly. She spoke very deliberately to Caddin.

“We can handle it.”

“You’re not getting any help from us.”

He gave her a disgusted look. Ceria turned her back on him, clenching both hands.

“We don’t need it. Like it or not, Caddin, we got stronger after Liscor. We leveled.”

“By taking the treasure you found from Albez. I didn’t see you sharing it with any of the families that died.”

The [Receptionist] jumped as Ceria slammed her hands on the table and turned.

“We had a fund! They got what we could give! Are we supposed to give everything to them? We didn’t even get that—”

She broke off. Ceria turned away.

“Forget it. Let’s go. Ksmvr! Pisces, we’re leaving! Come on. Yvlon, you too.”

She walked towards the door. A few adventurers blocked Pisces’ way.

“How do we know this [Necromancer] isn’t using corpses from our graveyards? Or he isn’t responsible for the undead?”

Pisces sniffed.

“I suppose you’ll have to take that on faith. Ask me a truth spell. But get out of my way.”

“And the Antinium?”

Some of the adventurers were standing around Ksmvr. He hadn’t moved, mainly because standing up would run him right into a man in leather armor from Thunder’s Solace who was standing over him and glaring down at the Antinium. Ceria turned back. And the bones of her skeletal hand were beginning to freeze over as more than grief and guilt took over.

“He’s going with us. Stan, tell the others to let Ksmvr go. He’s done nothing wrong.”

“Tell that to us, Ceria.”

“Okay. Back up. Before I make you.”

One of the other [Mages] made a scoffing sound. Ceria turned. But she’d crossed over from apologetic to angry. Yvlon strode over.

“Back up. Ksmvr, come on.”

She thrust the adventurer standing over him aside. The man stumbled, then whirled. He put a hand on the wooden mace at his side. Yvlon immediately put her hand on her sword hilt.

“Don’t do anything you’ll regret, Jerat.”

“Same to you, Byres. Just give me a reason.”

The two tensed. Ceria opened her mouth, but she didn’t know what to say. Part of her wanted Jerat to attack Yvlon. Part of her was shouting. Yes, she knew what it looked like. Yes, she understood their feelings. But part of her was furious.

How dare they. How dare they think we ran and left everyone to die. How dare they assume we abandoned our friends? How dare they think that? Especially because—

It was partly true. So Ceria hovered on the brink of lashing out. Jerat’s knuckles went white on his mace’s grip. He lowered his posture—

“Jerat!”

Stan snapped. He slapped his hands together, making the room start. Jerat looked up. Stan drew a finger across his throat.

“Cut it. Let them go. We’re all too hot-headed right now. We’ll talk this over. Speak later. Back up. That goes for you too, Caddin. Everyone. Let them go.”

The adventurers slowly backed up. Ceria could see hard faces, tensed muscles. But Stan was speaking sense, so the other Horns had room to move. Ceria began breathing slower. Pisces walked toward the door. Yvlon turned and offered Ksmvr a hand.

Ceria was so relieved the Antinium had heeded her words to stay still and not cause trouble. One of his stray comments could have ignited everything. Yvlon was breathing hard, still. Caddin stomped past her, and then turned. He glared at Yvlon as Ksmvr grabbed her hand.

“Guess you got ‘lucky’ again, Byres. I’m sure your team’s real proud of you from where they’re lying in the dirt, Yvlon. We all are.”

The Antinium had been rising, hand holding Yvlon’s. Ksmvr fell back lightly into his seat as Yvlon let go. He watched as Yvlon straightened. Ceria and Pisces, standing by the door, saw Yvlon turn. The [Wounded Warrior]’s hands clenched. Her armored fists rose. Caddin’s glare of hatred turned to one of alarm.

He stepped back, too slow, and too late. Yvlon’s fist caught him across the jaw and sent him flying into the table across from him. Caddin skidded across the top, knocked over a [Mage] sitting in the chair, and tumbled to the ground. The other adventurers stared at him, got up—

And the entire Adventurer’s Guild burst into chaos.



——



“Ksmvr, don’t move! Stay down and don’t draw your weapons!”

In the first moment of action, Ceria screamed. Then she reached for her wand, blasted a Bronze-rank adventurer off her feet with a spray of snow, and ducked. The first chair passed over her head. Ceria raised her skeletal hand, holding her wand, and snapped.

“[Frozen Armor]!”

She saw and felt ice race across her body. A glistening sheet of ice covered Ceria, weighing her down, changing to imitate actual plate armor. Just in time—someone struck her in the chest as she rose. A Human woman shouted in pain as her fist struck not soft flesh, but Ceria’s icy armor. The half-Elf rocked back, pointed her wand, and shouted.

“[Ice Wall]!”

The adventurer tried to jump back. But the ice that shot up snared half of her body. She fell down, and Ceria halted the spell. One adventurer down.

Dozens to go. Some of them hadn’t immediately entered the fight, but the instant Ceria began casting magic, at least five [Mages] began sending spells her way. Ceria went running and dove behind the [Receptionist]’s desk, raising another [Ice Wall]. Two spells hit her, and one shattered her wall spell. But the spells weren’t meant to kill, just really hurt. Neither Ceria nor the other [Mages] were using deadly spells.

Yet. She saw Yvlon kicking over a table and trading punches with Jerat as another adventurer tackled her from behind. Yvlon was shouting in fury, and despite Jerat’s size, she was punching parts of his face in. Of course; he was probably eight levels behind her! But she was outnumbered. Ceria pointed at the adventurers around her and shouted.

“[Ice Wall]!”

Three adventurers shouted as ice engulfed their legs. It wasn’t a vertical [Ice Wall] Ceria had just conjured, but a horizontal one. Some broke free of the ice and stumbled away, but Ceria could engulf them by altering her spell. She aimed again, then something struck her in the head. Something hot.

“Aaah!”

Ceria screamed as something burned the side of her face and her hair. Her [Frozen Armor] had caught part of the spell, but that had been a dangerous attack! She turned, ducking down and clutching at her head and saw the [Mage] who’d thrown the fire. He was pointing at her with a wooden stave of his own. Ceria aimed at him, and then saw something charging at him from the left. She screamed.

“Pisces, no! Don’t!”

The [Mage] turned, saw the huge skeleton of the bear charging him, and screamed once before the bear crashed into him. The [Mage] went flying, but the bear didn’t savage him. It turned and rammed into another adventurer, sending the man sprawling. Someone screamed.

“Undead! The [Necromancer]’s—”

Ceria heard a gurgle. She looked around wildly and saw Pisces. He calmly raised a chair and brought it down on the head of another [Mage]. The man’s friend charged Pisces, but the [Necromancer] blurred away.

[Flash Step]. Pisces turned and hit another adventurer menacing Yvlon with a chair. Then he disappeared again. No one could hit him; he was moving too fast with the chair. He gestured, and his bear charged a group of adventurers. They drew their weapons. Ceria froze one, but the other charged the bear with a yell. It was fine if it was the bear. If no one—

“Kill the [Necromancer] before he summons more!”

“Fucking tree rot!”

Ceria leapt up. Her first blast of snow shot Caddin, the speaker, off his feet. The second blunted [Ice Spike] hit a woman with a bow in the midriff. Pisces whirled. He saw a [Rogue] flip towards him, and pointed.

“[Shock Volt].”

The spell blasted the [Rogue] off her feet. She landed on the floor, twitching. Ceria looked around.

“Pisces, look out!”

He whirled and saw the man with the crossbow. Stan was standing behind his table, using it as cover. He had one of his crossbows in hand. He was aiming at Pisces’ midriff, as if that would stop the rampaging bone bear. Ceria pointed her wand at him.

“Stan! Drop it—”

Too late. Stan fired. Pisces’ eyes widened, and he vanished. He disappeared, blurring over to the left, but Stan was ready. The first crossbow had disappeared and the second one he yanked out of his bag of holding, even as Pisces stopped. It was already loaded, and Pisces wavered. The bolt flew and cracked on the wall of ice Ceria conjured from the ground.

“[Ice Wall]!”

“Dead gods damn it!”

The man cursed. Ceria ran past him, blocking more spells with ice walls as she took cover behind him. Just in time; a [Warrior] smashed into the [Receptionist]’s desk, turning it into splinters and sending the woman running for cover. Ceria hid behind Stan, shouting curses. She’d frozen Stan up to his neck. He was chattering already with the cold and jerking his head, but the ice was far too thick to move in.

“Pisces! Get to cover!”

He ignored her. Ceria was raising [Ice Walls] around her, creating a maze the adventurers had to try and smash through or run around. Ceria frantically downed a mana potion, but she realized she was safe. The [Mages] weren’t able to blast through her thick walls of ice, and the other adventurers with weapons were being caught by her spells. They were…sort of weak!

And Pisces was still fighting. He ducked as an adventurer with a hatchet took wild swings at him. The [Necromancer] stepped backwards, adjusting his [Flash Step] to stay just out of range. He waited until a swing overbalanced the Bronze-rank adventurer, then appeared behind her and kicked her knees in. The young girl went down, and Pisces delicately kicked the hatchet out of her hands. Then he turned as Yvlon howled.

She’d been fighting the other [Warriors] in a cleared space in the center of the Guild. Like some of the adventurers, Yvlon wasn’t willing to draw blood, so her sword remained in its sheath. But she was still fighting, even without her weapon.

And she was winning. There were half a dozen adventurers lying on the floor, and the number was going up rapidly. Yvlon had grabbed a shirtless adventurer and was demonstrating why going without armor was a stupid idea for a [Warrior]; she hammered his stomach until he started puking, and then kneed him in the chest. He fell down, and someone rammed into Yvlon from behind.

Jerat. He struck her armor from behind with a mace, an extraordinarily stupid move because it didn’t even stagger Yvlon. She turned around and punched the man in the face. Ceria winced as Yvlon’s gauntlets opened up more cuts on his face, on top of the beating she’d already given him. Down he went. Yvlon kicked him twice on the floor and then turned. Someone tried to bull-rush her, but Yvlon outweighed the Silver-rank adventurer, and he bounced off her armored body, hurting himself more than anyone else.

Ceria stared. They were just too…weak. The other adventurers, that was. Even the Silver-ranks. Only a few could put up an equal fight, and they didn’t have Yvlon’s gear. With her helmet on and enchanted armor, Yvlon’s only weak spot were the gaps around the front of her head. Even when someone smashed a chair over the back of her head, it only made her turn and throw the chair-wielder into the [Receptionist]’s desk.

But a scream had come from Yvlon. Why? Ceria saw her duck, and then a flash of light. Yvlon screamed as a second bolt of electricity shot across the guild’s floor. It shocked her, making her flash in Ceria’s vision. It wasn’t a killing spell, but Yvlon stumbled back, armor smoking. Ceria turned as Yvlon tried to charge the spellcaster and adventurers got in her way.

Alais. Ceria shot a blast of snow, but the [Aeromancer] shot lightning back. Ceria blinked, felt a kick in her chest—

And got up from the floor, head ringing. Her armor had taken the brunt of that, but it still felt like being kicked by a horse. She got up, swearing. She was going to freeze Alais’—

“Alais! Watch out! The [Necromancer]’s aiming at you!”

Someone screamed. Alais turned. Pisces was speeding towards her. She whirled her quarterstaff and aimed the tip.

“[Electr—]”

Pisces cannoned into Alais. He didn’t bother with a spell; he just [Flash Stepped] into her and rammed her off her feet. She landed hard on the ground, winded, but she was a veteran. Her staff was still aiming at Pisces.

“[Light—]”

He kicked Alais precisely in the face. Her head snapped back, but she still tried to cast the spell. Pisces raised one finger.

“[Lightning Jolt].”

He was faster. The lightning shocked Alais, making her convulse. Pisces kicked her in the stomach, and then stepped back. Alais tried to get up, her muscles still jerking, and looked up. She screamed for a second before the undead bear sat on her. Ceria, about to shout at Pisces, stopped.

He hadn’t killed anyone. Or injured them, aside from a few punitive spells and possibly some broken bones. And the undead bear had simply lain down on Alais and another adventurer rather than attack. Pisces stepped back and calmly waved at Ceria. She realized between her spells and his, they’d cleared all the [Mages] from the room.

“Over here!”

He appeared on her left and kicked a Silver-rank [Scout] in the groin. Ceria froze some more adventurers for good measure.

“How many did you get?”

“Eight?”

“I think I got ten!”

Pisces shrugged. He looked at the swearing adventurers encased in ice. Then he looked back at Yvlon.

“And I believe our Miss Byres will have ten out…that makes thirteen.”

He pointed. Ceria, panting for breath and drinking the rest of her mana potion, saw Yvlon rush another adventurer. He flipped a table over to stop her; she kicked it into him and then punched. He had armor on like her, but the wumph Yvlon’s fist made as it went into his leather-covered stomach made Ceria wince. Then she grabbed Pisces.

“Her arm! Is it—”

“It’s fine. Watch that other Silver-rank Captain. He’s trying to use his bag of holding to absorb your ice.”

Pisces pointed at Stan. The man shouted obscenities at Ceria as she thickened the ice to prevent him moving his hand to his bag of holding. Her ice was already melting, mixing with the blood on the ground. Ceria looked around, breathing hard.

“Where’s Ksmvr—”

“Safe. Watch out.”

A chair flew at both of them. Ceria ducked. Pisces raised a hand.

“[Barrier of Air]. [Flying Bone Club].”

The chair bounced off a whirling shield of air. At the same time, a bone detached from the skeletal bear’s body and flew at the adventurer who’d thrown the chair. He turned to run; the bone clocked him on the back of the head. Down he went. Ceria paused to stare at the bone as it clattered to the ground.

“Was that an actual spell?”

“It worked. I think Yvlon’s finished, Ceria. We may need to stop her.”

Pisces pointed back at Yvlon. Ceria turned and saw she was the last one left standing. Quite literally; every adventurer around her was on their knees, comatose, or crawling away. Blood was dripping into Yvlon’s blonde hair, and she had splinters of wood embedded in one cheek. But she was too angry to notice. And she was holding one adventurer, slamming him into one of the last tables.

“Say it again, Caddin! Say it again!”

The young man of maybe eighteen or seventeen was gasping, weakly flailing at Yvlon with his left arm as his other tried to pull her hands off. Yvlon slammed him into the table, and Ceria heard him make a gagging cry.

“Yvlon! Stop!”

“Say it again!”

“Yvlon!”

The [Warrior] let go of Caddin and spun as Ceria ran over. She cocked a fist and Ceria raised her wand. Yvlon froze as she saw Ceria and Pisces. Ceria knew she had bruises on the side of her face and she might have a cut. Pisces looked as pristine as when he’d come in.

“Yvlon. It’s done.”

Ceria looked down at Caddin. The young man was lying on the table, panting, making hoarse sounds up at the ceiling. Ceria wondered if Yvlon had cracked his ribs.

The [Wounded Warrior] took a shuddering breath. She looked around the Adventurer’s Guild. So did Ceria. Only then did she see some of the adventurers had freed themselves from her ice. And more than a few were still conscious. But no one was aiming at her or Pisces or Yvlon. The fight was out of them.

The guild was trashed, too. Ceria had seen brawls, but this one was destructive, by any standard. There were only about three good chairs left. She looked around for one to sit on; the world had turned grey after so much mana usage. Then she saw Ksmvr. He was sitting in front of his destroyed table, calmly waving at her.

“Ksmvr!”

He opened his mandibles cheerfully as Ceria hurried over.

“Hello, Captain Ceria.”

“Are you hurt? Did anyone hit you?”

“I was struck by an accidental chair. Aside from that, I am quite fine. I stayed down, did not draw my weapons, and did not cause trouble. Did I do well?”

The half-Elf stared at Ksmvr with open mouth. Then she burst out laughing. Yvlon and Pisces turned to look and began laughing too. Ceria laughed and laughed—until suddenly she realized her laughter was getting hysterical. She stopped. Then she looked around.

The adventurers of Celum looked at her. Stan had freed himself with the help of a [Mage] casting a flame spell. He was shivering, his face blue. Alais was sitting up; the bear had gotten off her and was sitting in front of Pisces as he slowly disassembled it, letting the bones float into his bag of holding. She was clutching her nose, which was dripping red. Ceria hoped it wasn’t broken.

“Uh…”

Yvlon walked past Ceria, breathing heavily. She was drinking from a healing potion. She didn’t look at anyone, until a sobbing, breathless voice came from behind her. She turned. Caddin was trying to sit up. He was making a bad sound, and Ceria knew some of his ribs were busted. But he still glared at Yvlon, tears in his eyes. Her and Ceria.

“How come you walked away when everyone else died? How’s that fair?”

The room was silent. Yvlon stared at Caddin. She slowly drank the vial of healing potion down and didn’t answer. She turned her back as Ceria looked around. Bleeding adventurers stared at her. Time to go.

“You weren’t able to do that last time, Ceria.”

Stan croaked as she went to walk past him. Ceria turned. She glared at Stan.

“I guess I changed, Stan. I leveled up. I thought that’s what we were supposed to do.”

He stared bleakly at her, then around the trashed guild. As if he’d had no part in what had just gone down.

“Some of us changed a lot.”

What could you say to that? What could you say that would give voice to all the loss, the pent-up feelings, the past both Ceria and Yvlon had left behind but was now dug up, lying bloody and exposed? Ceria stared at Stan, at Caddin and Alais. She shrugged.

“Yeah. I guess you’re right.”

She raised a middle finger. Then she turned.

“Come on, guys. We’re going. Ksmvr—”

Pisces was already opening the door. He began to step outside, and then stopped. Ceria saw only his still back for a second, and then the [Necromancer] slowly retreated back into the guild. And she saw his hands were raised. A man followed him with a drawn sword. He wasn’t an adventurer. Ceria’s stomach lurched as she recognized the insignia on his armor.

Celum’s City Watch. The man shouted as he kept his sword aimed at Pisces. More [Guards] streamed into the guild behind him, some holding bows, a few with wands. Most with swords, spears, axes…they advanced on the adventurers as the man with the sword bellowed into the room.

“Weapons down! Half the City Watch is right outside the guild! No one move! [Mages] with your hands behind your backs! If we so much as see a spell or undead, we’ll put a dozen arrows into you! You’re all under arrest!”

“Oh, tree rot.”

Ceria reflexively raised her hands. She kept them high as two [Mages] immediately trained their wands on her. They might be lower-level, and their wands might look cheap, but a [Stone Dart] spell could still kill at this range. The other [Guards] were shouting at the adventurers, forcing them back. The [Captain] in charge kept shouting until there were a good twenty men in the room and more pouring in. Then he looked around.

“Alright! Who started it?”

The adventurers stared. It was a familiar scene. Someone had heard the fighting and called the City Watch. They had showed up after the fighting as usual. They weren’t paid to risk their skin in a brawl. But after it? They could arrest anyone they wanted to. Ceria was grinding her teeth, ready to argue her way out. Or run if there was a chance. But then she saw the [Receptionist] push her way forwards. The woman raised her hand tremulously.

“She started it! Her and her team!”

Her hand pointed to Yvlon. Everyone looked at the [Warrior]. Yvlon turned crimson.

“I was—”

The Watch Captain cut Yvlon off with an impatient growl.

“Alright. You’re under arrest. Who else is in her team, Miss?”

The [Receptionist] flinched as Ceria shot her a glare, but she pointed. [Guards] surrounded Ceria and Pisces. The [Cryomancer] swore.

“Hold on! That’s a load of—they attacked us! All of them! We were only defending—”

“Save it! You started this brawl; you’re paying for it! And you’re spending time in our cells—I won’t have adventurers tearing up my city!”

The [Captain] shouted at Ceria. She shouted back.

“What? Pay for this mess? No way! They started the fight. Yvlon threw the first punch, but we’re—”

“Silence! Men, arrest her and toss her in jail! That one too!”

“He’s a [Necromancer]!”

“A what?”

A dozen blades were instantly thrust in Pisces’ direction. He held his hands up, eyes flashing fury. Yvlon tried to lower her hands, but a spear leveled at her throat put them back up.

“He didn’t—”

“Shut up! You’re under arrest! This isn’t a debate! Get them in chains, and if we have anti-magic cuffs, I want them on that [Necromancer]! And the half-Elf!”

“Hold on! You can’t just—”

The [Captain] ignored Ceria. And when a [Guard] forced her to her knees, the half-Elf remembered. Oh. Right. This wasn’t Liscor. This was a Human city’s City Watch. Which meant they were less professional even than Relc. And their Watch Captain was less concerned with the minutiae of who’d done what, and more concerned with less trouble. It was a refreshingly simple approach to policing. And Ceria had forgotten how much she hated it.

“That all of them?”

“No. No, you missed one!”

The [Receptionist] panicked as the [Guards] began to drag the three Horns of Hammerad to the door. She pointed frantically back at a figure behind them.

“It’s one of them! Take it too!”

“It? What do you—”

The [Captain] choked on his words. He’d spotted the figure in one of the three remaining chairs. The Watch had overlooked him not because of his appearance, but because he’d been so still, so calmly unobtrusive in the heaving, destroyed guild. Now they focused on him and recoiled.

He was sitting at the table where he’d been before the fight had started. And true to his words, he hadn’t thrown a punch. He hadn’t even gotten up. The [Guards] and adventurers all stared at him as Ceria stopped cursing the [Guard] putting her in manacles and Pisces and Yvlon looked over their shoulders. Ksmvr raised one hand and opened his mandibles in a smile.

“Hello. Are you going to arrest my companions? Because I believe we have a request to fulfill.”

The Watch Captain stared at him in horror. He stuttered for words.

“An—Ant—”

“I am Antinium. Hello, my name is Ksmvr. I request to be identified as a Horn of Hammerad, please. Thank you.”

The man stared at the [Receptionist] and the other adventurers. Their looks reflected the expression on his face. He worked his jaw soundlessly, then turned to one of his [Sergeants] and shook his head.

“Arrest it too. We’re going to need to tie the other arm up.”

He indicated Ksmvr’s three free arms. The Antinium studied a [Guard] as one of the younger recruits approached.

“H-hold still. You’re under arrest.”

The young man stuttered as he addressed the Antinium. Ceria, cursing, watched Ksmvr eye the manacles and then look to her. The Antinium tilted his head from side to side. Then he slowly stood up.

“No, thank you.”

The [Guard] froze. He looked back for help at his superior. The [Captain] blinked. He looked around at his men and the adventurers as if to reassure himself, then barked at Ksmvr.

“You! You’re under arrest!”

Ksmvr shook his head slowly.

“I am not.”

“Yes, you are, you—thing! Resist and we’ll kill you, got it? You so much as draw your blade—you’re under arrest, damn it! Do you even understand that?”

The Antinium watched the [Captain]. There was something unnerving about the intent way Ksmvr stared at the [Captain]. Then he shook his head again.

“No. I completely understand the concept of arrest, Watch Captain. And I do not believe I will be arrested. I, personally, have done nothing wrong. And if you try to arrest me, sir, I will have to kill you.”

Silence. The guild had gone still for the confrontation. It had frozen in anticipation of the fight and come to a halt afterwards. For the arrests, it had paused to watch the proceedings. Now it just stopped. Every eye fixed on Ksmvr, and a cold chill swept the room. The prelude to true violence. Death. Ceria choked.

“Ksmvr. Don’t—”

Ksmvr spread his three arms out innocently. He looked at her, and around the room. His voice was pleasant. Cheerful, as he met the [Captain]’s eyes, then Ceria’s.

“What? It would be self-defense. I have done nothing wrong.”

He paused.

“Yet.”





6.19 H


People liked to insult the local City Watch, especially in Human cities. Ask any local and you’d get some commentary about how their local law enforcement was about as effective as a hamster with a toothpick and as corrupt as a bag of [Lords] with their britches stuffed full of gold coins.

The comparison was even worse because Drake cities were known for their effective system of policing themselves. But to be fair, that was because most Drake cities conflated ‘City Watch’ with ‘standing army’, and thus they allocated huge discretionary budgets. Indeed, Drake culture was largely based around supporting their military, which meant the somewhat laissez faire north fell behind.

It honestly wasn’t that bad. Ceria knew City Watches got a bad rap, but what were they supposed to be? Perfect? Take a small city with a limited budget—especially if it wasn’t located on a major trade route or exporting some valuable resource—and think about how much you could pay your average [Guardsman].

Most likely even the [Watch Captain] wouldn’t be high-level. The [Guards] might see some action, but they wouldn’t be equipped or ready to take on dangerous monsters or individuals. They weren’t being paid to be heroes. So usually they did the best job they could, and yes, some cities did have a corruption problem, but others were fine. Not great, not excellent—just fine. If a disaster happened, it happened not because of the local law enforcement, but because it was a disaster.

With that said, Ceria had known bad [Guards] and good ones, and they shared a common feature, which was their disdain for adventurers. They hated high-level adventurers who were paid better, had expensive gear, and usually flouted the law, and took any opportunity to get back at them.

Which meant that the unlucky adventurer who was arrested would get their gear stripped off them, earn kicks and bruises if they resisted, and if they were in one of the aforementioned corrupt cities, might even see some of their gear disappear along with their gold if the [Guards] thought they could get away with it.

Ceria wasn’t as worried about that in this case; they were Silver-rank and could get their gear back, even if some gold ‘vanished’ by accident. Thank goodness their share of the loot was with the Halfseekers pending their visit to Invrisil. No, what she was worried about was Ksmvr.

“I have done nothing wrong. Yet.”

The Antinium stood in front of what had to be at least forty of Celum’s City Watch. There might be more outside; Ceria seriously doubted half the Watch had shown up, but it was a small army capable of putting down any amount of brawling adventurers at least. And she was terrified for Ksmvr. Because his threat had made the [Guards] back up for a second, but soon they would realize he was alone and his team were in cuffs.

Ceria had her arms twisted up by a female [Guardswoman], and she knew that any spell would result in her being knocked out or shot. And that was the thing about the City Watch in any city. They could be efficient, corrupt, or ineffectual, but even so, they were still good at killing things. And they would do so, too.

“Ksmvr—”

The half-Elf yelped as the [Guardswoman] twisted her arm up another foot. She swore, but forced the words out.

“Don’t be an idiot, Ksmvr!”

“I will do my best, Captain Ceria. I was explaining to this Watch Captain that I have done nothing wrong. After all, I did not partake in the brawl.”

The Antinium politely nodded to the destroyed room. The [Captain], a burly man who Ceria vaguely recognized as having taken part in one of Erin’s plays, looked around.

“That true?”

Some of the adventurers nodded; the rest just stared at Ksmvr with obvious distaste. The [Captain] hesitated, then he looked around and realized he was in front of his men. And that Ksmvr was alone. He caught himself and scowled.

“Doesn’t matter. This thing’s part of your team, right, half-Elf? It’s under arrest. Antinium, if you attack, we’ll—”

Ksmvr moved. Forty [Guards] instantly leveled their weapons at him, but the Antinium had simply raised one of his hands.

“Excuse me, [Captain]. But I repeat I have not taken part in this altercation. I am innocent. Therefore I cannot be arrested. I have done nothing wrong.”

That was true. But—Ceria was swearing as she stood on her tiptoes to avoid her arms being wrenched out of their sockets—she could have told Ksmvr the facts didn’t matter. Not with a peeved Watch Captain. He snapped impatiently at Ksmvr as he waved six of his [Guards] forwards. They moved slowly; like him, they’d probably only seen the Antinium in Erin’s inn. And you heard stories…

“I decide what’s right or wrong here. And you’re under arrest. Because I said so, got it?”

The Antinium stared at the [Captain] slowly. One of the [Guards] held up a pair of manacles.

“Don’t move—”

He jumped back as Ksmvr spread all three arms. There was another moment of tension, but less pronounced. Ceria could see one [Guard] cracking his knuckles as he snuck up behind Ksmvr with three of his mates. As soon as they got Ksmvr in cuffs, it would be a few kicks at least. If they hurt him, Ceria was going to—she saw Yvlon tensing as two [Guards] held her. Another fight would not be a good idea. The [Ice Mage] braced—

“Ah. It appears we have reached an impasse, then. I claim that under the law, I have committed no crimes save for association with my team. You claim that I have broken a law you refuse to name. So tell me, Watch Captain. Is it war?”

At first Ceria was focusing on Yvlon. The [Guards] were sneaking up on Ksmvr, and the [Captain] was looking around as the adventurers patched themselves up with cheap potions, assessing the damage. Then every head swung back towards Ksmvr as if he were a lightning rod in a storm of attention.

“What?”

The Antinium [Warrior] looked innocently around the room.

“I repeat. Is it war? I am asking for confirmation, Watch Captain. Because if it is, I would like to notify my Hive so they may send a declaration formally. However, if you are declaring war by surprise, I quite understand. No doubt the official commencement will begin after—”

“Wait. Wait—what do you mean, war? War with who?”

The Watch Captain was staring at Ksmvr. So was Ceria. Ksmvr looked puzzled; his antennae waved about uncertainly.

“Why, with the Antinium, of course. If you arrest me, it will be war. With the Free Antinium and all five Hives of the Antinium. If you place me in cuffs or kill me as I resist arrest, the Antinium go to war with the Humans of Izril.”

He turned to look at the [Guards] behind him as he said it. They sprang away from Ksmvr as if he were suddenly covered in spikes. The Watch Captain licked his suddenly very dry lips.

“Now, see here. You’re just an Antinium. Aren’t there…I mean, one Antinium isn’t…”

His voice trailed off. Ksmvr was just staring at him. But it was such a contemptuous, Pisces-like stare that the meaning was plain across species. He spoke very slowly and clearly as the room focused on him.

“I am Ksmvr. A Prognugator of the Free Antinium and individual of my Hive. I am unique. There are many Antinium, but the death of a Prognugator means war. Or do you not know of Klbkch the Slayer? The Small Queen, Xrn? We are second only to our Queens. If I am arrested without cause, this will count as a military action against my Hive. There is only one response to that. I have done nothing wrong. So, tell me, Captain. Is it war?”

He raised his voice and stepped forwards. The entire room shuddered and moved back in response. Every eye went towards the Watch Captain, who’d lost all color in his face. Ceria was just staring at Ksmvr.

It wasn’t every day you saw someone actually come close to evacuating their bowels in public. But the [Captain]’s expression suggested that if Ksmvr shouted, he’d be waddling as he ran away. And they would run. War with the Antinium? Ceria saw the face of the [Guardswoman], who’d relaxed her grip. The woman looked horrified, as did everyone else. Who would want that? But Ceria was amazed for a different reason.

Ksmvr was lying! The Antinium looked around the room, as calm as could be, but Ceria knew that Ksmvr was lying through his teeth. His mandibles, whatever. He was outcast from his Hive! Klbkch had cast him out and taken his spot as Prognugator.

But no one else knew that. The [Captain] began to back up.

“War? No. No, absolutely…no. We would never arrest—you’re an adventurer, right? Your team…”

He looked at the Horns, suddenly, instantly conflicted. Ceria looked up sharply, but Ksmvr just tilted his head.

“I believe they are under arrest. They did start the brawl.”

“Damn it, Ksmvr.”

Ceria audibly heard Pisces curse behind her. The Antinium glanced at Pisces and tilted his head the other way.

“My team has committed a crime. Thus, we must be punished. But I have not, so I will remain here while they serve their sentence. If they are due to be executed, I will, of course, petition—”

“No, no. They’re just going to jail. We’ll—uh, it’s just an overnight sentence. Right, lads?”

The [Captain] turned. His Watch instantly nodded. They would have agreed to anything at that moment. Ksmvr nodded happily as well.

“I see. That is good. Then I am not under arrest? There is no war?”

“No. No. In fact, you are completely free to go. Now, if you want.”

Ksmvr ignored the note of hope in the [Captain]’s voice. He shook his head.

“I must see my companions are properly arrested first. It would not do for them to be mistreated.”

And rather to Ceria’s chagrin, Ksmvr did just that. The City Watch escorted her, Pisces, and Yvlon out of the guild as the [Captain] remained to get a full account of what had gone on. And the Horns were hauled to Celum’s jail and put in a cell together.

Ceria had to admit it was the politest and somehow the tensest walk to her cell she’d ever had. Ksmvr walked right behind the [Guards] as they hurried the Horns into a cell. They were so flustered they forgot to grab the adventurer’s gear and had to come back for their weapons.

“Dead gods damn it. Hey, don’t you dare mess with that wand. I want it back, not snapped by accident!”

The half-Elf swore as one of the [Mages] in the City Watch took her wand, eying it avariciously. The [Mage] glanced at Ksmvr, who was loitering in front of their cell, and hurried off. Yvlon had given up her sword, and Pisces was surrendering his rapier with a very sour expression.

“This everything?”

The [Guardswoman] in charge, a [Sergeant], glanced nervously at Ksmvr as she grabbed Yvlon’s Sword of Weight, eying it appreciatively. Yvlon nodded and Ceria glanced sideways at Pisces. He sneered.

“Of course. Would we lie?”

Normally that tone and sentence would have earned him a boot in the ribs. But the [Sergeant] held back on snapping as she glanced at Ksmvr.

“Uh. Fine. We’ll be back. You lot—cast any magic, and it’ll be worse for you. We’ll get your side of things in a moment, once the [Captain] comes back. If there are fines…”

“The other adventurers joined the fight. We took on one team. They piled on.”

Ceria had thought of the least expensive excuse and the one that would survive a [Detect Lies] spell. The [Sergeant] looked at her and shook her head.

“We’ll see about the damages. At least the damn Guild wasn’t buried in snow. Anyways—”

She shifted with the sword and rapier in hand and looked at Ksmvr again. He waved at her politely.

“Hello. I am not under arrest?”

She jumped.

“No! I mean, no. I’m going to put these away. You…don’t linger. Loitering without purpose is illegal, you know..”

“I shall leave soon thereafter, then. I would not like to break the law.”

Ksmvr nodded politely at the Human woman. She looked surprised.

“Er…thanks. Well…”

She backed away. Ceria looked around her cell. It was one of the shared ones used for common, low-risk prisoners. Metal bars, stone floor, and a hole in the floor that probably led into Celum’s sewers. It stank.

But at least they had the cell to themselves; across the way was another general holding area with two drunks, a petty [Thief], and a woman who’d murdered her husband with her bare hands after she’d found him cheating on her. The [Thief] and drunks were staying well away from her.

“Silver rot. I’ll bet that [Sergeant]’s going to swing my sword around the moment she’s out of sight. And that [Mage] is going to use your wand, Ceria. I hope she doesn’t hurt anything with it; the sword can kill someone if they spar.”

Yvlon sat down on the floor, groaning. She still had a few light cuts around her face; she hadn’t taken enough healing potion to cure all of the damage from her fight. But she mainly looked tired and upset. Pisces grumbled; he was feeling at his bag of holding.

“Fools deserve their fates. Onto more pressing matters. Ksmvr, would you please tell the Watch to release us?”

Ksmvr looked confused.

“But Comrade Pisces, that would be illegal.”

All three Horns looked up. Yvlon bit her lip, but Ceria and Pisces just glanced at each other.

“Yes…but it would be convenient, Ksmvr. Nice lie, by the way.”

“Thank you, Captain Ceria. I am ashamed of the ruse. But I thought it was the only way to prevent a death sentence or Comrade Pisces being horribly maimed.”

“Wait, what? What for?”

Yvlon and Ceria looked at Pisces. He seemed embarrassed.

“Ah. You, uh, remembered our discussion, Ksmvr. That explains it.”

The Antinium nodded happily.

“I did. I was concerned for your safety as you told me how common execution sentences are for menial crimes. As well as the fact that [Necromancers] are unduly hated. Thus, I lied despite the extreme risk it entailed. I am glad you will not be killed.”

Ceria smacked her head gently against the bars. Pisces coughed rapidly, turning even redder. Yvlon looked disgusted.

“That explains it. Pisces—”

She wavered as she stared at the young man. Then Yvlon turned to Ksmvr and, to Ceria’s surprise, she only sighed.

“He’s told you a half truth, Ksmvr. Pisces probably did get in a lot of trouble for being a [Necromancer], but his ‘menial crimes’ probably were a bit worse than that. And yes, he might get roughed up pretty bad if people found out what he is, so it’s a legitimate concern. But the only time it would be a death sentence is in a Drake city. And even then, not for a brawl.”

She looked meaningfully at Pisces. The tips of his ears were red as he nodded.

“A slight exaggeration, Ksmvr. I…apologize. In my defense, I was recounting stories to him.”

He glanced at Ceria. The half-Elf bit her lip. She wasn’t sure whether she should laugh or not. She instead looked at Ksmvr.

“What did you mean, ‘extreme risk’, Ksmvr? It’s just a lie. And a darn good one. You can spring us out of jail with it, right?”

Ksmvr nodded.

“No doubt, Captain Ceria. However, if the issue is not a life-or-death matter, I would hesitate to do so and, in fact, urge that I do not. Because it may turn the issue into a deadly matter. For us. You see, if my former Hive finds out I have claimed Prognugator status, they may attempt to seize and execute me as well as my team. Revalantor Klbkch would not hesitate to do so, I think.”

Ceria’s mouth fell open in horror. Her eyes slid sideways to Yvlon and Pisces.

“He—he wouldn’t do that, right?”

The Antinium shook his head seriously.

“I am not a Prognugator. To claim otherwise is one of the most serious affronts I could make to the Hive. I have no doubt I would be executed if he had overheard what I claimed. Recall that I threatened war with all of the Antinium.”

When he put it like that…Ceria gulped.

“Okay, scratch getting us out. It would look bad after you agreed to arrest us. And that might make Celum issue a complaint. And if they do…”

She looked at her teammates. Yvlon and Pisces nodded rapidly.

“One night’s fine. A fee’s welcome.”

“I relish squatting in this squalid, stinking hole of a cell.”

“What they said. You did good, Ksmvr. At least we didn’t earn a beating. Which we would have done with Pisces’ tongue. And at least we won that fight. Although…”

The half-Elf sighed. She looked at Yvlon. The woman was sitting down, rubbing at her arms and not meeting her or anyone else’s eye. Ceria hesitated.

“…We’ll have to talk out why it started.”

“I see. Should I be arrested to partake in this conversation?”

Ksmvr looked from Yvlon through the cell bars. Ceria shook her head.

“No, no, the last thing we need is more trouble. You just…stay out of trouble. Okay, Ksmvr? Maybe go back to Erin’s inn, alright? Let her know what—no, you know what? Don’t tell Erin what happened unless something worse occurs. Just go back, have a drink…we’ll be out in the morning.”

Ksmvr nodded obediently.

“Yes, Captain Ceria. But what about our request?”

Ceria’s mind went blank as she tried to recall.

“Our what? Oh. The [Bandits]. They’ll keep a day. Don’t worry. We’ll jump on it when we’re out.”

Pisces sniffed.

“A menial task. But one that is worth twenty gold pieces plus loot…hardly worth the cost of sitting a night in jail. But as that is a separate matter…Ksmvr, here. Take this.”

He had been busy fiddling with his hands and his belt. Now, to Ceria’s surprise, she saw him pluck a ring off his finger and hand it to Ksmvr along with his personal bag of holding. She eyed him with great surprise.

“What’s that for?”

“My ring enchanted with the [Shatterbolt] spell, as well as the bag of holding containing all my bones. Be very careful with it, Ksmvr. I can sense where the bones are, of course, but while the bear bones are still present, what remains of them, there is another skeleton that must not be lost.”

The [Necromancer] met Ksmvr’s eyes. The Antinium nodded seriously.

“I will be very careful, Pisces.”

“And you’re giving that to Ksmvr because…?”

Pisces rolled his eyes as he turned to Ceria.

“Because I would rather not have my ring confiscated. If I had time, I would have sequestered your wand and Yvlon’s sword for the bag of holding along with my rapier. Or do you think the [Guards] will be so polite after Ksmvr is gone? They’ll come back to do some very invasive searches, I have no doubt.”

Ceria grimaced as she realized Pisces was right. Then she felt a moment of grudging admiration.

“Smart to hide your bones. They’d probably burn all of them.”

“Exactly. If you have anything else you’d like to ensure isn’t looted, now would be the time.”

Pisces looked around. Yvlon shook her head.

“All I’ve got is my armor, and they won’t take that. Keep Pisces’ stuff safe, Ksmvr. I’m…sorry about the fuss.”

She looked miserable. Ksmvr stared down at her as he attached the bag of holding to his belt.

“I do not mind, Yvlon. I do not fully understand. But I wish to. And I will stay out of trouble, Captain Ceria. Do you have any other instructions for me?”

“Uh…no. No. Thanks, Ksmvr. You were a help. You’d better get out of here before the [Guards] come back.”

Ceria smiled wearily at Ksmvr. The Antinium nodded.

“I will wait for your release tomorrow morning, then.”

“Thanks! And Ksmvr, it’s not at dawn! You can go to sleep!”

Ceria called out as he turned and walked down the jail. He turned and waved his acknowledgement. Ceria saw him pause to speak with the [Sergeant] at the far end of the jail; she was indeed practicing cuts with Yvlon’s sword. Then she opened the door, let him out, and he was gone.

A silence fell over the cell after Ksmvr had gone. Ceria looked around. The other inmates had been an audience to the adventurer’s discussion. Now they stared at their cell mates.

“That thing’s an Antinium, ain’t it? Weird devils.”

One of the [Drunks] leaned against the bars, looking miserable and hung over. The [Thief] nodded.

“Dangerous. No wonder the Drakes fucking hate them. Hey, how much to stay silent about him not being a Prognuga-whatsit?”

Ceria swore and sat up. Before she could formulate a threat, Pisces stepped in.

“If you were wise, friend, you’d keep your mouth shut. Ksmvr may not be a Prognugator, but I am a [Necromancer]. And imprisoned or not, I do not take kindly to threats.”

The [Necromancer] cast a minor illusion spell as he did, so his voice sounded deeper and far more sibilant. The shadows around him seemed to creep towards the other cell. The [Thief] scrambled back with a shout as the two drunks fled.

“Keep back! You so much as cast a spell and I’ll shout, and the Watch will be all over—”

A hand descended on his shoulder. The man spun and stared into a woman’s face. Her eyes were bloodshot with tears, but the husband-killing wife’s voice was steady.

“Shut up. You tell anyone and I’ll kill you. I did it once. I’ll do it again. Be quiet.”

The [Thief] froze. The self-bereaved wife let him go, and he backed up into a corner and tried to squeeze into the stone. The wife looked around with a very lost expression. She was a young woman. Barely eighteen. She must have just been married, or else married young. She was attractive, but she was a mess; she’d been crying when the Horns were brought in. Ceria caught her eye.

“Thank you.”

The murderess looked back at the half-Elf, lost.

“He looked nice.”

“He is.”

“Good. Good. I’m…I mean it. I’ll kill him if he so much as squeaks.”

She pointed back at the [Thief]. The man’s face was white as he shook his head frantically. Ceria’s skin crawled; that was another thing about prisons. Sometimes the [Guards] separated by cells, but sometimes they didn’t think someone was a threat and you spent a night sleeplessly watching the other people in the cell. They’d underestimated this girl.

“That’s…quite alright. Thank you, though. But he can stay alive unless he speaks.”

The young woman nodded.

“Okay. I’ll remember that. And him. But I don’t mind it. I don’t have any other reason. I killed him, you know. Myself. I leveled up from it. I’m all red now. It’s so red up here…”

She tapped her skull. Her eyes dripped tears. Ceria found herself backing up unconsciously. She licked her lips.

“I’m sorry to hear it.”

“I did level up.”

Pisces moved forwards. He gave the woman a charming smile and a slight bow.

“And we are grateful. Truly. You look quite tired, Miss. We’ll leave you to your rest. I’m sure it’s been a long day.”

“It has. Thank you.”

The woman retreated. So did Pisces and Ceria. They backed up until the woman was somewhat out of view. Ceria breathed out. Then she turned to Pisces and Yvlon. She wanted to say something, but aware the others might still be listening with Skills, she just looked at Yvlon.

“Alright. Want to talk about it?”

The woman had watched the exchange silently. Her face was shadowed in the dark prison with only a few lanterns providing light.

“No. But we should. I know I shouldn’t have taken the bait. But—”

“I was angry too. But you’re just feeding into what they think, Yvlon. You know what it’s like. Tomorrow we’ll grab Stan and Alais. Kick some sense into them if we have to. If we can find Olesm, the Halfseekers even, get someone to vouch for us…”

Yvlon was nodding. She looked up.

“Thanks. I’m sorry.”

Pisces sniffed and then clearly regretted it.

“This isn’t the first night I’ve spent in a cell. Although perhaps one of the only full nights I will spend in one. We could slip out, but alas, I’m an adventurer now. I suppose I can tolerate this.”

Yvlon’s lips quirked the slightest bit.

“Thanks, Pisces. I didn’t mean it. I’ll control myself. It’s just—”

Her voice broke. Ceria saw her shoulder shake. In the darkness, she finally made out Yvlon’s face. It was running with tears.

The half-Elf looked at Pisces. He’d frozen. So she knelt and grabbed Yvlon.

“Hey now. It’s not true.”

“But I did lose my team. I did. We lost them. Sometimes I forget their names. Their faces. I don’t dream about them anymore, Ceria. I ran, just like—”

Ceria sat on the ground and grabbed her friend. She rocked back and forth with Yvlon as tears and memory both filled her again. Her eyes stung. She whispered.

“It wasn’t like that. We did all we could. It wasn’t like that. We tried…”

Silently, the [Necromancer] turned his back and began investigating the hole into the sewers. Ceria thought she saw him drop something into the sewers. But she was focused on Yvlon. She wiped at her own eyes as she rocked back and forth. It was very quiet. That was all. And soon, the tears stopped. After all, their friends had died a long time ago, or so it felt now. It just hurt sometimes.

That was all.



——



And then Ksmvr was alone. He checked out of the jail, and the [Sergeant] walked him to the door. No one stopped him. No one tried. After all, he was innocent. Although Ksmvr was quite aware that he could be guilty by association.

That was a common crime he had studied up on while he was learning how Drake and Human society worked. Loitering, resisting arrest, and ‘suspicious behavior’ were all valid tactics used by both Drake and Human [Guards] to opportunistically arrest undesirable elements or pursue personal agendas. It was a very convenient loophole in a system designed for equality.

Ksmvr had quite approved when he’d first studied it in his Hive in his formative two years. If you were going to have a flawed society based on individual freedoms, they might as well be curtailed by those with the true power.

It was lucky the ruse worked. Or I might have been arrested. Which would not have resulted in the death of Comrade Pisces. Hm. So is it good that I successfully lied and endangered my team to no gain? I will not be able to hear the discussion Captain Ceria has with Yvlon.

Ksmvr frowned as he walked away from the jail. To an Antinium, the equivalent of frowning was holding his mandibles close together but not touching, while his antennae drooped slightly. Perhaps he had been rash. But he had acted on the best information available.

“Now I am a free citizen. Bereft of my team until tomorrow. What should I do?”

The former Prognugator stopped in the street and looked around. He realized everyone was staring at him. Over a hundred pedestrians, from children, to people conducting their business, to [Guards] peeking out the windows of their barracks, were all staring at him.

Ksmvr the Antinium. He had on his magic cloak, and Ksmvr had his enchanted short sword on his left, with his one good arm. On his right was the little Flamecoat Dagger, and his shortbow was positioned to be drawn over his right shoulder as well. He had on four magical rings, counting the one Pisces had just given him, and a necklace , the one that prevented food poisoning.

There was a little quiver of arrows on his left side, behind the shortsword, and Pisces’ bag of holding was located on the right side of his belt, behind the dagger. A row of two potions filled the rest of the belt, as well as a small money pouch containing seven gold coins, fourteen silver, and three copper coins as well as a copper penny, a denomination not always used or accepted, but informally treated as a de facto currency.

In short, Ksmvr was armed and prepared for anything. But since there was nothing to do, the Antinium was lost. He looked around and noticed a good deal of flinching.

“I am clearly unwelcome.”

Those were the facts. They didn’t bother Ksmvr in the slightest. He stared around Celum, wondering what he should do with his time. Captain Ceria had told him not to cause trouble, to not tell Erin about what had occurred unless necessary, and to go to sleep at some point. Beyond that, Ksmvr was free to act autonomously. Which he would.

He wasn’t a slave, after all. And neither was he a mindless drone, like many of the Soldiers and Workers of the Hive were. Ksmvr was aware that his team worried over his behavior sometimes, and regarded it as obsessive. But that was a misconception he had yet to clear up. As he’d told Comrade Pisces time and time again…

“I am not without free will. I have simply chosen to devote my entire life to my team. Because there is nothing else in life that gives me purpose or value. Without it and my teammates, I am nothing.”

What was so hard to understand about that? But Comrade Pisces had gotten such a funny look on his face and awkwardly patted Ksmvr on the shoulder multiple times while clearing his throat. Ksmvr shook his head as he marched down the street.

“Silly Comrade Pisces. He exaggerates, as Yvlon says. But we are all with our quirks. Comrade Pisces is a [Necromancer] and duplicitous. Yvlon has a temper, but she is very kind and caring. Captain Ceria eats bugs, which is a trait reviled for some reason, and she likes sugary foods. I am a failure and weak link in my team.”

This was the way the world was. Ksmvr walked down the street and headed left. He knew the route, although he’d only been to Celum a few times before and rarely outside of Octavia’s shop. But he had memorized the route the [Guards] had taken to get here from the Adventurer’s Guild.

Ksmvr could trace his route from the guild back to Octavia’s shop if he so chose. He had an excellent spatial memory. And it never occurred to Ksmvr he could take another route. Why bother? He had time, and this way was certain.

“What should I do next? Hm. I could drink, but that is a social activity, and I do not need further energy reserves. Moreover, tipsiness is difficult for Antinium to acquire without Rxlvn. I could practice? Or acquire valuable information by listening to Captain Bevussa and the other adventurers in Liscor’s guild. Perhaps Miss Selys has—”

Ksmvr was pondering his options as the Adventurer’s Guild appeared before him. He walked up to the front door, turned around, and then began walking in the direction of Octavia’s shop. But it was then that he paused. Something was happening. Ksmvr looked down.

His rings were…vibrating on his fingers. Ksmvr hadn’t noticed it at first, but they were definitely shaking. And the vibration was getting stronger; it had grown to the point where he could feel it, even with his limited nervous system. He stopped at once and investigated the phenomenon.

“My rings are vibrating. Why? A spell? Perhaps. A function I was not aware of? Comrade Pisces’ ring? But he has never mentioned it. And…all four rings are vibrating. And my sword. And necklace. And bow and dagger and…”

Ksmvr suddenly realized that all the magical items were shaking. From the cloak, to the bow, to the sword…and the effect was increasing in magnitude exponentially. He looked at his gear, alarmed.

“What is this? What will happen if it grows worse?”

He hesitated. This was something he would ask Captain Ceria or Comrade Pisces about. But what should he do? He was about to check for someone casting a spell on him from afar when his predicament attracted the attention of one of the adventurers exiting the guild.

Crossbow Stan. The man was talking to Alais, the [Aeromancer] and Silver-rank Captain Ksmvr had been introduced to. He paused as he saw Ksmvr, and his expression was guarded. Then his eyes widened in horror as he saw what was happening to Ksmvr’s gear.

“Troll balls! It’s dissonance! Pull those rings off!”

He bellowed at Ksmvr. The Antinium looked up.

“What is?”

Stan waved his arms frantically. Alais looked up. Her eyes widened as well, signifying great alarm to the Antinium. Genuine alarm. She shouted.

“Your gear! There’re too many enchantments! Take it off! Now! Or it’ll explode!”

Explode? Ksmvr’s arms moved in a blur. The adventurers blinked as the weapons, rings, and necklace all fell to the ground. Ksmvr was yanking at his cloak as Stan called out.

“It’s fine! It’s fine…Ksmvr? Look, the shaking’s stopped, see?”

Ksmvr paused. It was true. The shaking had stopped, and the rings and his weapons had ceased vibrating, even though they were all piled on top of each other on the ground. He bent to investigate.

“Curious. But they are in closer proximity. Why ha